The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 12 | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Food Services introduces changes 
Meal plans, Grab ’n Go, dining halls implement policies directed towards sustainability, health 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
notre dame Food services (ndFs) implemented many changes to start the year, includ­ing the adoption of new policies that work towards making food services on campus more health-conscious, as well as increasing overall campus sustainability efforts. 
chris abayasinghe, director of ndFs, said plans for this year’s changes began with evalua­tions performed at the end of last semester. 
“annually, we review how our students are utilizing the meal plan, the popularity of menu offerings, hours of operation, and make changes,” abayasinghe said in an email. “This year, we increased our commitments to sustainable foods, made avail­able a new meal plan offering in collaboration with our partners in athletics and sought to in­stitute practices to divert trash from the landfill. additionally, we increased the amount of Flex dollars available for use at our on campus restaurants.” 
abayasinghe said that prepa­rations for implementing the changes involved cooperation of efforts between multiple depart­ments, all ultimately aimed 
see ndFs PAGE 4 



smc hosts visiting artists in moreau art galleries 

By MARTA BROWN 
news writer 
wednesday evening, the moreau art galleries at saint mary’s highlighted a new ex­hibit titled “impermanence,” “presence of light,” uses photography to capture the physical sense of light that is normally unseen, the artistic statement in the gallery bro­chure said. 
featuring  works  by  artists  
gwenessa  lam  and  dana  
heeyun Jang.  
Jang’s  series  of  work,  

Furthermore, the statement said, her work “captures sun­light coming through the 
see eXhibiT PAGE 5 



Hesburgh Library undergoes renovations 

By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
hesburgh library has finished the first stage of the multi-phase renovation plan to modernize the building in hopes of creating an improved collaborative and educational atmosphere. This first phase, labeled as phase 1-a, includes an additional entrance on the north side of the building and new restrooms on the first two floors. 
university librarian diane parr walker said today’s students and faculty require that libraries provide both individual and col­laborative spaces, state-of-the­art technologies and advanced research expertise. 
“we’ve just completed the first half of the initial phase of reno­vation,” walker said. “That’s the north end of the central core of the first and second floors of the hesburgh library, including a new entrance on the north side of the building, an atrium open­ing between the two floors, a large skylight visible from both floors, a glass-walled quiet read­ing room on the second floor and new restrooms on both floors. 
“The renovation of the hesburgh library reorganizes spaces and services to addresses these and other changing needs in the digital age. … it ensures that the hesburgh libraries can 
see library PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you could ask me a question, what would you ask? 

Jim English 
sophomore 
Knott hall 
“what makes you happy?” 


Pam Udoye 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 

“what’s the fastest way to get to chipotle?” 

Ben Vasquez 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“did han shoot first?” 



Grace McKenny 
freshman pasquerilla east hall 
“north or south?” 

Tyler Duffy 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“how many licks does it take to get to the center of a Tootsie roll?” 

Patrick Murday 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“if you could have one superpower in the world, what would it be?” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: andrea vale manny de Jesus nicole caratas rachel o’grady 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Art Attack @ DPAC Panel Discussion and PEMCo presents Men’s Soccer vs. Women’s Soccer vs. 
emily Kruse austin Taliaferro 
DeBartalo Performing Awards Ceremony “Ordinary Days” Clemson Michigan Arts Center Hesburgh Center Washington Hall Lab Alumni Stadium Alumni Stadium 
4:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-2 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 
Corrections 

Multiple clubs will be Civil Rights today: Student musical The Irish take on The Irish women take 
The observer regards itself as showcased Challenges for Peace theatre performance Clemson on Michigan a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“My Value System” Postgrad Service Fair Women’s Soccer vs. Volleyball vs. Penn One Hundred Years 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Mendoza College of Joyce Center Indiana State of Automobile 
however, recognize that we will make 
Business 4 p.m.-8 p.m. Alumni Stadium Purcell Pavilion Snite Museum of Art 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. More than 50 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 2 p.m.-4 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Part of Berges Lecture organizations are The Irish take on the Part of the Golden Public exhibition and 
we can correct our error. 

Series registered to come Hoosiers Dome Invitational automobile collection 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 

SMC students hold panel on mental illness 
By ALAINA ANDERSON 
news writer 
on monday night, saint mary’s students participated in a panel discussion on men­tal health awareness as part of the support a belle, love a belle initiative. 
Junior Jenna wozniak, co-chair of the student government association’s social concerns committee, said the student panel is an important tradition that fos­ters unity among saint mary’s students. 
“it’s important for student to hear from other students,” wozniak said. “in the long run we all go through similar experiences and relate to one another, that’s how we can grow as a community and with each other.” 
at the panel, junior miranda gall spoke about her struggle with anxiety, depression, bipolar disor­der and pTsd. she said it has been a difficult journey, and she is still not past her struggles, but saint mary’s has helped with her mental illness. 
“i’ve always suffered with depression, but it got really bad freshman year when i decided to overdose on my anxiety medication after a bad experience with a room­mate,” gall said. “i was out cold for four days and no one noticed.” 
gall said she goes to the women’s health center every week and has become very close with the nurses who have helped her along the way. 
“i thought my struggle was over, but about a month ago i attempted suicide again,” gall said. “it was difficult seeing my parents so up­set, and now that i am back at school, i constantly fear relapse. .… it is something i still struggle with today.” 
Junior erica lopez also spoke about her struggle with depression, anxiety and ocd. she said that she has always been shy and college prompt­ed a huge adjustment for her. 
“i didn’t want to be in the community of mental ill­nesses, but eventually i be­came suicidal,” lopez said. “i got diagnosed with depres­sion, anxiety and a little bit of ocd, but it really helped to take medication and talk openly with my parents.” 
lopez said that being at saint mary’s has helped her realize she isn’t alone in her struggle. 
“saint mary’s has shown me that involvement and get­ting to know people really helps,” lopez said. “There are many others experienc­ing these things and i have comfort in knowing that no one is alone in this, you’re never by yourself.” 
senior Torie otteson spoke about her struggle with ma­jor depressive disorder, gen­eralized anxiety disorder and pTsd. she said that she has come a long way and con­quered many of her battles, but the battle with mental illness will always be a con­tinuous force in her life. 
“mental illness never re­ally goes away; you have moments of clarity but also movements back down,” otteson said. “The ultimate goal is to get to the post-re­covery phase, but some of my biggest challenges have been in this phase.” 
otteson said whether in the post-recovery phase, newly diagnosed or anywhere in between, everyone suffering from mental illness deserves the same help, love, respect and care. 
“one of the most important things i’ve learned during the post recovery phase is to be self aware,” she said. “every day i have to decide to look at myself with love or hate, but i know that every time i make a positive choice, i am fight­ing for myself.” 
“i encourage everyone to take control and fight every day to appreciate the life you’ve been given,” otteson said. “Finally, no matter who you are or where you are, know that you are worth the fight. .… you have a life to live no matter where you are in it, so get going.” 
Contact Alaina Anderson at  aander02@saintmarys.edu 

career center hosts annual Fall career expo 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
The career center at notre dame will host the annu­al Fall career expo in the Joyce center on wednesday and Thursday from 4 p. m. through 8 p.m. 
The event will be attended by 277 organizations, said hilary Flanagan, director of the career center. The first day will be focused on engi­neering and internship op­portunities and the second day on full-time positions and post-graduate service opportunities. Flanagan said students can access 
paid adverTisemenT 
detailed information on these organizations via go irish, the career center’s recruiting database. 
according to Flanagan, a major goal of the Fall career expo is to help make the job, internship or volunteer search more accessible to students. 
“Too often in the job search, it feels like you are sending your application materials into a black hole,” Flanagan said. “The Fall career expo is a chance to interact with representa­tives from these organiza­tions who are excited about the prospect of hiring nd students to join their organi­
“Too often in the job search, it feels like you are sending your application materials into a black hole. The Fall Career Expo is a chance to interact with representatives from these organizations.” 
Hilary Flanagan 
director of Career Center 
zations for internships and full-time positions. many of the representatives are nd alumni, and they will be wearing ribbons that des­ignate them as such. They are so excited to come back to campus and share with our current students their experiences.” 
Flanagan said the career center hopes to help all students, not just seniors, with this event. she said the backstage pass program is designed specifically for students who are attending the career Fair for the first time. students participating in the program can arrive an hour early to the career Fair and get to hear from re­cruiters in an informal space about how to make the most of their time, she said. 
The career center is also providing students with ap­propriate attire, for free, to wear to the Fall career expo or to interviews with the inauguration of the career center clothes closet, Flanagan said. 
“we were really excited that the nd community pulled together to allow us to host a clothes closet for the first time this year,” she said. “[interview center co­ordinator] sarah himschoot has led the effort through the career center to coor­dinate receipt of donations of gently used or brand new interviewing attire for our students. many students are not able to afford additional attire for interviewing or attending career network­ing events where business or business casual attire is expected. also, we have students who have left their interview attire at home or simply do not have enough for the amount of events they might need to attend in one week.” 
For students looking to prepare for the Fall career expo, Flanagan said she rec­ommends researching the organizations that will be in attendance on go irish. she also said students need to have a good attitude going into the fair. 
“students need to remem­ber to relax, be focused, smile and be prepared to fol­low up with employers after the event,” she said. 
Contact Emma Borne at  eborne@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NDFS 
conTinued From page 1 
towards both increasing cam­pus sustainability efforts as well as benefiting local businesses. The changes will affect on-cam­pus eateries as well as north dining hall (ndh) and south dining hall (sdh) 
“The changes with reusable bags at grab ’n go were the re­sult of working with the office of sustainability and student sen­ate. This included surveying the student body last semester and running an awareness cam­paign to help educate how many bags were discarded annually. linda Kurtos, my colleague in the office of sustainability, along with her staff, assisted my team on campaign roll out and survey data review. by doing so, we were able to shift our spend­ing to support prairie Farms — a cooperative that sources its milk from local indiana family farms.” 
at the center of changes to food services this year is the green plan, which, accord­ing to abayasinghe, is “aimed at filling a gap in service flex­ibility.” under the green plan, which combines “a component of on-campus and off-campus spending” and does not re­place any previous plans, $315 in domer dollars and $315 in Flex points are placed on the participating student’s id card. The student is allotted up to 14 dining hall meals per week, and as with the defaulted gold plan, unused Flex points will carry over from first semester to sec­ond semester, and expire at the end of the school year in may. 
according to the notre dame Food services website, students may request to use the green plan in place of the gold plan by submitting an email via their student email account to idcard@nd.edu within the first two weeks of each semester. in the email, the participating student should write ‘change to green plan’ in the subject line, and include with your name and ndid ‘90’ number in the body of the email. The cost to upgrade to the green plan is $242.50 per semester, which will be charged to the student’s student account. 
both dining halls and cam­pus retail locations have updat­ed menus, abayasinghe said. 
“as an example, at au bon pain, we now feature antibiot­ic-free meats and feature lo­cal produce (when seasonally available) in addition to promi­nently displaying caloric info on the menu signs,” he said, “at decio, our chefs have increased the availability of vegetarian and vegan menu entrees.” 
“The dining halls routinely evaluate the popularity of the weekly menu cycles and ad­just as needed. This week, we are bringing in celebrity chef Jehangir mehta to host theme dinner events at ndh and sdh and train our staff in more plant forward food menu-writing and preparation techniques.” 
at grab ’n go, gluten-free sandwiches are being offered daily for the first time, and dis­posable brown paper bags have now been replaced by reusable bags which may be purchased at the grab ’n go desk or at the huddle for $1.20. cash, Flex points and domer dollars are all accepted forms of payment. 
according to the Food services website, styrofoam cups will also no longer be available in the dining halls in an additional effort towards raising sustainability. 
student reactions to the changes have generally been positive. 
“at [au bon pain] i really en­joy the fact that they put the calorie counts on their sand­wiches just so you know how healthy everything is and ex­actly how many calories you’re getting,” sophomore stephanie mellert said. “in new york they have a similar policy and it just really helps people eat a lot healthier and make better life decisions.” 
one negative reaction, how­ever, has been to grab ’n go’s implementation of reusable bags, which some students be­lieve will not realistically be purchased and used. 
“in terms of grab ’n go, i like the whole idea that they’re try­ing to go green and save paper, but at the same time i don’t think it’s realistic that students are going to pay for a bag when they have a backpack,” sopho­more brigid walsh said. “so mostly people, at least from what i’ve seen, kind of carry the food in their arms and sometimes depending on what you get that can be a little bit difficult.” 
abayasinghe said ndFs has more changes planned for the year but will also be reassessing and possibly adjusting already-implemented changes based on student feedback. 
“we are looking at launch­ing a composting pilot program and other waste diversion mea­sures this year,” he said. 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
Library 
conTinued From page 1 
continuously evolve in order to fulfill our mission of ‘connecting people to knowledge’ and meet the changing needs for teaching, learning and research here at notre dame.” 
walker said the new north plaza just outside the new north entrance complements the dramatic interior of phase 1-a. 
“This new addition is a perfect outdoor gathering space for stu­dents, especially those coming over from the north side of cam­pus,” walker said. 
construction on the second half of this initial phase is now begin­ning, walker said, which will add a second atrium opening between the first two floors and a new view from the second floor over the con­course and the reflecting pool. 
she said the building will be open throughout the renovations, which span the next few years. The total budget for the phase 1 renovations is $10.5 million, while the total cost depends on how quickly the work proceeds and how many phases it takes, according to walker. 
“The 10th floor is scheduled to be completed in January 2016, and phase 1b, which will complete the new entrance gallery, will be fin­ished during the spring semester [of] 2016,” walker said. “Following on phase 1-b, we will begin the next phase, which includes the concourse, the addition of what we are calling a ‘scholars’ lounge’ with informal café-style seating across from au bon pain, and some staff areas. phase 2 will begin early in 2016 and will take about a year.” 
walker said she is pleased with the results of phase 1-a and that construction is proceeding as planned. 
“The transformation of spaces is powerful, and the reaction from campus is overwhelmingly posi­tive,” she said. “it will be dramatic to see the entire entrance gallery space completed next spring.” 
These renovations are long overdue and well worth the wait, walker said. 
“except for the lower level and some small space renewal proj­ects, most of the building has not been renovated or changed since it opened in 1963,” walker said. “meanwhile, the teaching, learn­ing and research needs of campus have changed and are continuing to change rapidly.” 
The new reading room on the second floor is already a student favorite for quiet, individual study, walker said. 
“The new lighting is showing us just how yellow and dim the light­ing in the rest of the building is, and the natural daylight that floods into the center of the first two floors seems definitely to be a welcome addition,” she said. 
walker said the reorganization of services and spaces in the build­ing will better support the way students and faculty work in the 21st century. 
“For example, the plans offer a variety of spaces that will provide appropriate room for both col­laborative group study and indi­vidual quiet study,” walker said. “The long-awaited upgrade to the building’s infrastructure will im­prove lighting and provide better and more access to electrical out­lets and digital technologies. The addition of presentation practice rooms and access to multi-media instruction and services meets the evolving teaching and learning demands on students across every discipline. enhanced spaces like the center for digital scholarship will continue to transform the ways that students and faculty can use technology to accelerate their research process.” 
walker said she encourages stu­dents, faculty and staff to come and see the progress of the renovations, 

which they can also follow with  building and enables them to  
photos, webcams and news up- imagine the impact that the reno­ 
dates at renovation.nd.edu.  vation will have for students and  
“i think that experiencing the  faculty,” walker said.  
space helps people to truly ap­ 
preciate how we are beginning to  Contact Matthew McKenna at  
transform this 50-year-old iconic  mmcken12@nd.edu  

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 


Exhibit 
conTinued From page 1 
historic chicago building which is situated on the zero point of chicago. with long shutter speed and sub­tle choreographic gestures of the photographer, this series attempts to capture the subliminal essence of sunlight.” 
lam’s works used oil paints to depict different angles of shadows. 
according to the event brochure, lam explores “the intersection between the perception, memory and rep­resentation of place. drawing from notions of the uncan­ny, [lam’s] paintings depict darkened interiors and shad­ows removed from their ev­eryday context. … in [lam’s] artwork, furniture pieces and tableaux are distorted, rendering them amorphous or anthropomorphic.” 
ian weaver, assistant pro­fessor of art, said he was fascinated by both artists’ unconventional approach to­ward form. 
“i don’t typically see work that’s formless. and both of lam’s and Jang’s works com­plement each other, depict­ing a nontraditional sense of the physical world,” weaver said. 
elise desomer, a junior at saint mary’s majoring in art and english literature, said she appreciated the overall theme of the display. 
“i think that the overall theme ‘impermanence’ re­ally captures the feeling when words can’t really de­scribe something—almost like sand slipping through your fingers,” desomer said. “i really appreciate the min­imalism of the artists’ vi­sions and how well it works with the atmosphere of [the moreau art galleries].” 
“The artists’ work is more modern, and it’s great to see a caliber like this. … it’s an opportunity to broaden the artwork here for the commu­nity,” she said. 
weaver said he is very enthusiastic about this year’s show and hopes it will involve the south bend community. 
“one of my goals is to ex­pand in south bend and to work with different school groups, libraries and churches — the civic com­munity — in order to not just display our own works,” weaver said. 
weaver said he is excited about the current exhibit and bringing the community to saint mary’s to broaden the range of artwork. 
“i’m hoping to get more people here from both cam­puses and in the south bend area. one of my goals is to expand in south bend and to work with different school groups, libraries, and churches,” he said. 
weaver invited teenag­ers from the area to display their artwork in a “pop up 




show” on oct. 3 and 4, where own work and then install are open monday through the faculty will work with their artwork in the gallery. Friday, from 12 p.m. to 5 them to help produce their “i want to expand the gal-p.m. The “impermanence” lery to others to give [area exhibit will run until oct. 2. 
teenagers] a chance,” weaver said. Contact Marta Brown at The moreau art galleries mbrown04@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

‘doing it wrong’ 
Megan Valley 
news writer 

my parents and grandmother came to notre dame yesterday to visit me and, as terrible as this sounds, i was mildly embar­rassed for most of the time they were on cam­pus. not that they’re embarrassing — they’re truly lovely people and i adore them. it’s just that they love notre dame too much. 
i am not a legacy student, but my family has a fascination with notre dame that i’m sure is not unique. They treat notre dame like a tourist attraction, snapping the same pictures: basilica, dome, ‘Touchdown Jesus,’ stadium gate and steps of my dorm each time. asking me trivial questions about my home under the dome that i can’t answer, because i don’t know when this building was built or who the debartolo’s are, and gener­ally “oohing” and “ahhing” over everything. 
sometimes, i think they forget that my time at school is more than just an extended, albeit highly educational, vacation. This is where i live now, where my friends live and where i work. when they see ‘Touchdown Jesus,’ all they see is an awesome mosaic. i see that too, but i also see the building where i’ve spent countless hours studying, researching, writ­ing and visiting office hours. we’ll walk past o’shaughnessy hall and they’ll ask me about the strange, grimacing statue out front. i don’t even know the name of it or who made it; i just pass it everyday when i go to class. 
Their view of notre dame is highly ideal­ized and most of the time i don’t feel like i really fit into that fantasy they believe in. my grandmother, especially, seems to think that notre dame is a place where nothing bad ever happens. it’s just football, beautiful buildings and fun all the time — like disney world, but with more snow and the added bonus of catholicism. i love notre dame, but that doesn’t mean i have no complaints or issues with my life here. but if i bring these up to my family, i feel like i’m spoiling their fun. 
i know parents (and grandparents) living vicariously through their children is nothing new, but this is why i’m embarrassed when they visit: my actual life doesn’t quite line up with what they believe it is. i’m happy with what i do here, but sometimes i worry it isn’t enough. Family members will call me to talk about the football game, the women’s basket­ball game or whatever game and i won’t have anything to say because i wasn’t there. i’ll tell them as much, they’ll be disappointed that i’m not having the “full college experience” and then they’ll try to convince me that i would like going to the games if i tried it. i know i wouldn’t, because large crowds make me anxious, but they ignore this because it conflicts with what they think a notre dame student’s — what my — life should be. 
notre dame is special for a lot of reasons and no one should ever feel like they love it for the wrong ones. if you’re happy with your experience here (i know i am), why should it matter if anyone else thinks we’re “doing it wrong?” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In the moments of silence 
Michael Fliotsos 
retained reflections 
as an ra in duncan hall this year, i didn’t ex­pect my fourth residence hall move-in experience to be especially educational. after all, there’s only so much to know about unpacking cars, moving furniture and awkward first interactions between randomly assigned roommates from across the country. as the freshmen moved in for welcome weekend two weeks ago, though, i was surprisingly picking up new lessons anyhow. yes, i learned (or re-learned, for that matter) how to loft a bed using modular furniture after bunking for the last two years. indeed, i began to understand how full a “full” elevator could become. and yes, of course, i learned how to retrieve the second floor master key and unlock a room in two minutes flat. 
one of the most significant realizations, however, came in observing parent-freshmen interactions throughout the weekend. aside from learning how to think on my feet and recall some of the more obscure bits from ra training the week before, answering questions from worried parents and assuaging the concerns of residents made me ap­preciate more fully what my ras in the past had to deal with. more importantly, i had the opportunity to travel back in time three years to when my par­ents and i navigated the completely foreign land­scape that was the university of notre dame. From both down the hall and up close and personal, i observed my fair share of teary-eyed goodbyes as well. 
it was in observing these interactions and fare­wells that i realized more completely the impor­tance of silence in communication. sure, we all know the adage that “silence is golden,” but it was this experience in combination with many other recent ones that clarified its role in saying much more than words often can. 
a resident, standing outside his door, was chat­ting with his mother, keys in hand. all of the last-minute items were being ticked off (“now are you sure that you have enough easy mac?”), the typical reassurances uttered (“mom, i’m fine, don’t worry about me.”). Finally, and most importantly, were the shifty glances toward the wall, down at shoes and the silence. The silence, usually followed by a hug or sometimes a tear or two, expressed what words could not. For it was in that silence that a concerned parent and unsure first-year student understood that despite of all the variables that the next four years would bring and all the uncertain­ties and turns in the road that were to come, that this would be a time of change that they would en­counter together. 
since move-in, i’ve been paying closer attention to these moments of silence in my life and what they say. whether it is a casual conversation on the quad, a hug for a friend in need or a moment alone at the grotto at night, making sense of these brief pauses in the action require a brand of introspec­tion that i find is often difficult to confront. it is within these moments, however, that i learn impor­tant parts about what it means to be, well, me. 
perhaps the moment that most recently inspired the writing of this article came at the beginning of our recent domination over Texas on saturday, in the moment of silence in honor of Fr. Ted. while the student section usually does a great job at ob­serving moments of silence as they arise, it was clear from the moment his name was displayed on the scoreboard screen that this time was differ­ent. as the roar of the stadium quieted to a din, the silence in the senior section represented what we all remember from the events of this past march — respect for a man that did so much for so many. it was in this remarkably quiet moment (for a football game, at least) that i was able to understand more about the community of this university than a sim­ple conversation could. 
i will leave this column with a challenge — the next time you’re confronted with a pregnant pause in a conversation, or find yourself at a loss for words, try to think about what it means. you will often find it more telling than you think. 
Michael Fliotsos is a senior science-business major currently living in Duncan Hall. He would sincerely                appreciate emails with feedback or suggestions for future topics at mfliotso@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Only people can stop sexual assault 
Neil Joseph 
viewpoint columnist 

in just over two years here at notre dame, i’ve received far too many emails notifying me about a sexual assault report on campus. and every year, to follow those emails, countless columns (like this one i’m writing) appear in The observer, furiously pleading for some way, any way, to end these horrendous acts of violence on our campus. yet why does it still happen? why can we, as a notre dame student body, not find a way to actually do some­thing? yes, we’ve had numerous successful awareness campaigns and bystander trainings that have increased conversation around campus. The bottom line, however, is that we still have people who are sexually assaulted on our campus. and we need to actually do something about it. 
one thing is clear: no amount of policy change will stop sexual assault. cracking down on alcohol, parietals or disparities between guys’ and girls’ dorms won’t pre­vent sexual assault on our campus. all of these policy changes, while they might have some effect, just serve as an extra deterrent, adding to the already strict rules and laws in place to help protect our students. These changes could be beneficial (or do nothing), but they aren’t nearly enough. we need to do more. 
my freshman year, i, like all other notre dame stu­dents, underwent building community the notre dame way. as everyone knows, this training involved education about sexual assault and basic bystander intervention training for all students. although its intended purpose was good, i got little from it. like most other people who i talked to, i only began to understand sexual assault in the context of myself; i learned what sexual assault tech­nically was and how i could personally avoid being in those bad situations. like many other people, i brushed the training (and the entire issue of sexual assault) off for many reasons. i knew i wasn’t a bad person, so i wasn’t going to get in those situations. i wasn’t a bad friend, so i would watch out for my buddies to make sure they didn’t get in those situations. i was also a little bit incredulous: one in four girls get sexually assaulted in college? To me, that logically transitioned to the fact that somewhere close to one out of four guys i knew committed a sexual assault in college, and none of the guys i knew seemed that bad. i never encountered someone who was sexu­ally assaulted, so the stat just really wasn’t impactful for me. sexual assault just didn’t really seem to be a serious problem to me as a college-aged male. i wasn’t going to be involved in any of those situations, and it had never af­fected me personally 
my opinions and my apathy didn’t change until i began to have serious conversations with my female friends here. i had never realized that i, a man, should care just as much about sexual assault as anyone else on this campus. i had never been scared walking home alone at night, i had never been objectified and i didn’t know what it was like to feel pressured by someone of the op­posite gender. i didn’t understand any of it, because i didn’t understand that every sexual assault affected the people that i love indirectly, and thus affected me. until i realized this, it really wasn’t something that i cared deep­ly about — i knew it was horrible, but i didn’t realize that there were so many things that i could do to help stop it. 
so how do people, but not policy, stop sexual assault? yes, it’s through bystander intervention, safe drinking and looking out for each other. but it’s also much more than that. To stop sexual assault, we need to stop think­ing about it in the context of our selves. luckily, it didn’t take something personal for me to start really caring about sexual assault as an important issue that i can do something about. and it shouldn’t for anyone. 
once we all start really realizing that sexual assault is something that we can change on an individual level, progress will come. sexual assault can’t be stopped by legislation or administrative changes. rather, it can only be stopped by people. by men who know what their fe­male friends feel every weekend night. by women who know what their guy friends think about an issue so important to them. by a student body who realizes that even if we avoid these situations personally, our part in combating this issue involves so much more. when this happens, when we actually try to understand each other’s views and personal experiences, we will all start realizing how deeply this issue affects each and every one of us at notre dame. only then will change come. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He can be reached at njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

We all need to do something 
“sexual assault can happen to anyone.” Those words from the two previous ndsp crime alerts still ring in our heads two weeks later. it’s both daunting and dis­couraging to come to the realization that it does happen here at notre dame. These emails serve as a sobering reminder of our failure to protect our brothers and sisters and that the founding trust of this community — where we proudly claim “love thee, notre dame” — has been broken. 
it is important to acknowledge this reality: we have failed each other, the survivors of assault and our values as an inclusive and catholic institution. The question is, how will we respond and heal this egregious breach of trust? 
“sexual assault can happen to anyone.” These are our friends, our roommates and our classmates. no matter how confident, smart and careful; any one person may face this horrific and repulsive crime. 
our entire community is reeling from these reports of sexual violence. such wounds to our community call us to respond with whole hearts and strength. we must rec­ognize and affirm the dignity of the survivors of sexual violence — as well as others impacted — through our full support and committed response. 
we may be tempted to respond to these crimes with anger. we understand this anger, and we feel it, too. but anger is not enough. it may instead enable barriers to tangible change. we must not allow ourselves to remain angry, further dividing our community. becoming angry with administrators, perpetrators or notre dame does not affect change. we must transcend our anger with compassion, healing and, most importantly, with action. 
individual action is the foundation of all bystander intervention training and student government’s “it’s on us” campaign. while many have joined, we need every student to adopt a sense of relentless responsibility to their brothers and sisters. 
This relentlessness will grow into an effort of full force, driven by our love for our lady’s community and driven by the strength and resolve of every student, faculty and staff to end sexual violence. next time you hear someone question our efforts as a university, be the one to encour­age them to get involved. 
no one has all the answers. we don’t need to do everything, but we all need to do something. The obliga­tion falls on each of our shoulders, and we must respond wholeheartedly to each report of violence that tears apart our notre dame family. awareness, reflection and prayer are necessary, but insufficient. what can you do? what will you do? 
it is time to get involved. get started at itsonus.nd.edu. Take the pledge to become an active bystander. learn more about resources and support services at csap. nd.edu. our efforts will not end here. Together we will overcome our fear and anger with lasting hope and our collective responsibility to each other. working together, we will one day eliminate sexual assault at notre dame. 
Bryan Ricketts 
student body president 
Nidia Ruelas 
student body vice-president 
Dan Sehlhorst 
student body chief of staff 

The pope, the encyclical and notre dame 
“young people demand change.” 
This line grabbed our attention the most when reading the papal encyclical released over the sum­mer. ‘laudato si’ is the latest and most drastic move taken by the vatican to address the worldwide cli­mate crisis. as interns at the notre dame global adaptation index, we spend a lot of our time working on and thinking about environmental issues. after this encyclical, and the momentum it has garnered, we feel it is time to recruit our fellow students in the fight for environmental justice. 
notre dame is the world’s leading catholic uni­versity and has always been a global force in com-batting social justice issues such as poverty and injustice. ‘laudato si’ has shed light on our new mis­sion. we share a home with 7 billion other people and it is quickly becoming sick. pope Francis issued a call to save our planet and we are obligated to answer. we can wait for other people to work it out or we can take action now. This is the greatest chal­lenge our generation will face. 
you may ask, how can we as students make any difference in the face of such a monumental prob­lem? how can we fight for social and environmental justice? First, start right here on campus. don’t use plastic water bottles, go to your dorm’s sustainability events and carpool home on breaks. consider the sustainability minor or environmental engineering. write your senior thesis on the dangers of climate change. attend talks, like the laudato lunch be­ing held Friday, september 11th at 12:30 p.m. in the geddes coffee house. There are so many resources and outlets available on campus. but changing the way we do things here is not enough. The second step is to change the way we think. 
consider how you can help create a more just and sustainable world in your work, relationships and lives. speak out against practices and systems that hurt the environment. live your life in a way that acknowledges we are responsible for the legacy we leave behind. The fight against climate change is a fight against apathy. we cannot be complacent with the status quo — we must be the change that we demand. 
learn more at ndgain.org or green.nd.edu 
Sarah Senseman 
senior 
Sophia Chau 
junior 
Corey Robinson 
junior 


By MIKO MALABUTE 
scene editor 

leading up to the season-opening game, fans were filled with excitement, anticipation and a small dose of anxiety pumping through their veins. Following notre dame’s 38-3 victory over the Texas longhorns, the irish faithful were ec­static, excited and relieved in what was a start-to-finish dominating perfor­mance. however, there is no true time for rest, as fans are refilled with the same excitement, anticipation and anxiety, as well as a large sense of wonder, with the premiere of showtime’s “a season with notre dame” on the horizon. 
announced in early august, the pre­mium network was able to do what many have dreamed of, but very few have been able to accomplish: gain an inside look behind notre dame football. according to John walters of newsweek, for the past five years, no one has been allowed the kind of inside access that showtime will be afforded. in 2010, following the quiet, tumultuous tenure of charlie weis, the university’s director of sports informa­tion brian hardin insisted on a more transparent football program. This all ended after only one month, however, when a notre dame beat writer let slip an injury report on a player, directly contra­dicting hardin’s policy. 
now, five years after the incident, notre dame has opened its doors to the showtime crew to give viewers — wheth­er passionate Fighting irish fans or not 
— a look at the lives behind the coaches and players. after the continued success of the documentary, “real-world” style of hbo’s “hard Knocks,” it seems natural — and even inevitable — that there would be a similar documentary-style series to follow prominent college football teams. 
The potential behind the series is as high as the potential of the team being covered. with so many different, com­pelling angles surrounding any college football team, a documentary series (especially on a premium network like showtime) has so many different ave­nues to pursue, which always make for a very interesting watch. This is exponen­tially true for notre dame football: a pro­gram as rich with history as our’s garners attention, whether wanted or not. Throw in an exclusive inside look at a program that has, for the most part, closed its doors to the media and the public, and it would be hard to not tune in and watch. 
The interesting question behind the college football documentary series: exactly how much can we see? by the very nature of the program, many have drawn comparisons to hbo’s “hard Knocks.” however, “hard Knocks” cov­ers professional athletes who are getting paid, in part, to be in the limelight; “a season with notre dame” follows stu­dent-athletes — emphasis on “student” 
— who excel in both the classroom and the gridiron. stephen espinoza, execu­tive vice president of showtime sports, addressed the question of the degree of transparency by insisting that they want to showcase the program while still be­ing sensitive to the figures they are cov­ering. “The last thing we want to be is exploitative,” espinoza said. “we realize that that the things we depict can have a lasting impact.” 
however, does that mean it will be just paint the perfect picture of notre dame football? “you want to make sure you’re real and it’s not a public service announcement each week,” coach brian Kelly said. ultimately, the audience will be the judge, as the series “a season with south bend” is set to premiere on Tuesday at 10 p.m. 
Contact Miko Malabute at                 mmalabut@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


By ROBERT WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

labor day has come and past, and with it marks the official end of another won­derful summer season. as the season of flower crowns and tie-dye tank tops comes to an end, let’s take a look at the best music festival performers of the past summer. 
Florence + The Machine 

Florence welch and her team of mysti­cal musicians dominated the music festi­val scene this year, headlining bonnaroo music and arts Festival, lollapalooza, coachella and countless other festivals across the globe. Their ethereal sound drew enormous crowds and some of the best reviews of the summer. 
Kendrick Lamar 

The legendary compton mc has had an incredible year, releasing the criti­cally acclaimed and socially relevant “To pimp a butterfly” along with head­lining big name festivals like outside lands, summerfest, and bonnaroo. his energetic and passionate musicality res­onated throughout his shows, unparal­leled by many other rappers. 
By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

it’s that time of year again, and all of campus is abuzz, nervously preparing for the dreaded career fair. amidst the confusion, i’m asking the important question: what to wear? 
guys were practically born wearing business professional, and gained ex­perience with every wedding, school dance and graduation they attended. For us ladies it’s not so easy — you don’t want to be spotted at the career fair in your senior prom dress. For many of us, this may be our first experience suiting up and we want to get it just right. 
obviously the number one goal is to look professional. anyone can rock a simple matching suit, but there’s no harm in a little creativity. There’s nothing like a trendy pair of heels to 
Alabama Shakes 

with the recent release of their 2015 album “sound & color,” this rock band absolutely conquered the festival scene. lead by the soulful roar of frontwom­an brittany howard, alabama shakes left their mark on mountain Jam, lollapalooza, bonnaroo and many other popular festivals. 
twenty one pilots 

This pop/rock/rap/electronic duo sent crowds into a frenzy at festivals like bunbury music Festival, bonnaroo and lollapalooza. comprised of vocal­ist Tyler Joseph and drummer Josh dun, twenty one pilots’ eclectic sound brought some of the biggest numbers to their stages throughout the summer. 
ODESZA 

after rising from the underground electronic music community, harrison mills and clayton Knight took festivals like Firefly music Festival, sasquatch! Festival and sXsw by storm, performing at more than 20 throughout the summer. odesZa’s unique sound turned grass fields into dance floors and brought even more fans into the world of electronic music. 
bump up your business attire. They should definitely be closed-toe, but you don’t have to stick to black. shoes are a great way to add in some color because they’re not distracting — re­cruiters don’t tend to stare at your feet during conversation, and subtle tones from nude to navy complement any suit. a word of caution — don’t wear shoes you aren’t comfortable in. The sore-foot grimace is hardly flattering. pointed-toe flats are just as refined, and are certain to boost your network­ing stamina. 
believe it or not, there was a time when the black suit was reserved for funerals, but the procession that will be headed to the the Joyce center on wednesday is expected to be more mournful than ever. The black suit has become ubiquitous, but you can take advantage of this dismal trend by 
D’Angelo and The Vanguard 
only a year after the praise of his multi-genre 2014 contemporary al­bum “black messiah,” d’angelo’s fes­tival performances were some of the most anticipated of 2015. at festivals like FyF Fest, outside lands music and arts Festival and north coast music Festival, the artist incorporated r&b, rock, jazz, soul and lyrical excellence to impress crowds and critics across the nation. 
FKA twigs 

after coming out of seemingly no­where, eccentric indie-electronica singer, songwriter, producer and danc­er Tahliah barnett wowed crowds with her hypnotizing performance art. at festivals like lollapalooza, FyF Fest and glastonbury Festival, barnett — known by the stage name FKa twigs 
— was one of the most popular and crit­ically acclaimed alternative performers throughout the summer. 
Gary Clark, Jr. 
i can confidently say this man is Jimi hendrix reincarnated (yes, i do realize that is a very heavy statement).being one of the best performers i have ever 
standing out in a navy or charcoal suit, which is more likely to give you a look that is experienced, professional and less severe. The experienced suit-wear­er may even opt for the adventurous beige suit, just be sure to tone down your other colors (e.g. white shirt, no red shirt). 
now, when we talk about “suits,” this term can really be taken loosely. you have the option of choosing pants or a skirt. if you opt for the skirt, pencil-skirts are the standard, but a skirt with a flare near the knee is also profes­sional and flattering. as far as the jack­et goes, a suit jacket with full-length sleeves usually requires a shirt with a collar, other blouses tend to get bur­ied. a blazer-type jacket — which often come in three-quarter length sleeves 
— lends better to various styles of shirt, but still be sure to avoid anything seen, gary and his mastery of the gui­tar, accompanied by his extremely tal­ented band, left me — and the rest of crowd — absolutely breathless. his pas­sion ripped through the music and im­pressed people everywhere at festivals like lollapalooza, bonnaroo, afropunk Fest and Firefly. 
Beyoncé 
although Queen bey’s made in america Festival 22-song set marked her only festival performance of 2015, this is beyoncé we’re talking about. need i say more? 
Sir Paul McCartney 
it doesn’t get much better than an original beatle. after delightfully shocking the country by appearing on the lineups of two american festivals, lollapalooza and Firefly music Festival, the music legend did not disappoint. at the ripe age of 73, paul has still got it. performing a cohesive 33-song setlist of solo, wings and beatles songs, paul stole the show and our hearts with the nostalgia of the yesteryears. 
Contact Robert Wozniak at                           rwozniak@nd.edu 
too low cut. pants are trickier, as they come in a variety of fits. go for fitted pants with a slight flare for a classic look, or a relaxed style if you want to be more modern. in all matters of career fair fashion, remember that subtlety is key. Keep in mind when choosing jew­elry and accessories: you want to speak for yourself, not let your outfit do the talking. 
a great option for someone with little experience in business clothing is the donated clothing closet at the career center, where you can find the perfect outfit. all the clothes look brand new and — the best part — it’s totally free! so put on something that makes you feel professional, classy and confident and rock that career fair! 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                                  kmcgarry@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

let’s make the nFl more fun 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
pack it in boys, it’s all over. Tebowmania is finished for good this time. he couldn’t find success with the Jets, bill belichick couldn’t find a way to use him in new england and not even chip Kelly — among his wave of inexplicable per­sonnel decisions — could find a place on a 53-man roster for the former gator. it looks like last week’s two-touchdown preseason performance against the new york Jets was the last we’ll ever see of Tim Tebow in nFl action. 
but can’t there be another way? Tebow was pure enter­tainment: taking the denver broncos from 1-4 to the play­offs, displaying a complete inability to throw a football for three quarters only to make fourth-quarter comeback af­ter fourth-quarter comeback, throwing the winning 80-yard touchdown pass in a playoff game against the league’s lead­ing defense. love him or hate him, everyone was talking about Tim Tebow, and i for one think it’s a shame that the nFl would just let one of its big­gest talking points leave. and i think i might just have a solu­tion to this problem. 
Tebow would have been, at best, the eagles’ third-string quarterback. The way i see it, the third-string quarterback in the nFl just isn’t that impor­tant. you can talk about ohio state and cardale Jones all you want, but things are different at the professional level: sys­tems are harder to learn, and no team can recruit a stable of potentially elite Qbs like you can in college. chip Kelly chose some some guy named stephen morris out of miami instead of Tebow. if sam bradford and mark sanchez go down, are the eagles going to win the super bowl with morris at quarterback? last year the arizona cardinals were forced to start third-stringer ryan lindley, and he was awful. at least Tebow would have held your attention while playing poorly. if lindley and morris are sitting behind two of the most injury-prone starting Qbs in the league, how bad are the rest of the third-stringers? 
That’s where my idea comes in. get rid of those forgettable third quarterbacks. if your team only carries two, then get rid of your most forgettable player. instead, have a league-mandated “unnecessary dis­traction Qb” on every team. and they have to be involved in at least one play per game. That’s right, all 32 teams in the nFl should be forced to carry at least one player at the quar­terback position who may not be an elite football player, but makes up for it in their ability to keep the espn talking heads busy. 
would it hinder some teams? probably. would these new storylines distract from the real action? yes. but imagine the possibilities. every eagles game can be Tebow Time. aaron rodgers joins the list of packers casualties? here comes a 45-year-old brett Favre, back from his latest retirement. peyton manning better not show any signs of decline, or broncos executive vice presi­dent John elway might just take over as denver’s Qb. Tony romo should have earned the full backing of cowboys fans after last season, but Texas hero vince young might keep him on his toes. if 410-pound laquon mcgowan can play tight end for baylor this year, surely someone can find a way to use Jamarcus russell. donald Trump says he can “get things done” in washington, well let’s find out if he can win the starting job from robert griffin and Kirk cousins and make the redskins good again. 
because let’s face it, espn will find some way to create drama where none exists. with Johnny manziel and rg3 set to ride the bench in week one, Josh mccown and cousins can’t afford to make a single mistake. even with him out of the league, we’re probably not done hearing about Tebow. whether my proposal is ac­cepted or not, it’s going to be another long year of hearing every detail of these quarter­back competitions. we might as well liven them up. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


PGA TOUR | deuTsche banK championship 
Strong back nine propels Fowler to one-stroke win 
Associated Press 

norTon, mass.  — rickie Fowler delivered all the right shots monday at the deutsche 
bank  championship,  and  
then  he  delivered  some  
champagne.  

he stood near the wood railing overlooking a dozen rows of reporters, hoisting an empty bottle in one hand and a microphone in the other. 
“let’s finish off the year right,” Fowler said. 
he certainly showed he is capable after a tense duel with henrik stenson at the Tpc boston. 
Trailing by three shots ear­ly on the back nine, Fowler rolled in a 40-foot putt on the 14th hole to pull within one and then seized control when stenson hit a towering tee shot that came down short and into the water for double bogey on the par-3 16th. 
That combination sent Fowler to another big win. he closed with a 3-under 68 for a one-shot victory that assured him of a spot in the top five at the Tour championship and a clear shot at the $10 million bonus in the Fedex cup. 
Fowler won The players championship in a three-hole playoff in may. he won the scottish open with three birdies on the last four holes. 
“being in those positions before, i definitely felt very calm out there,” he said. “i knew what i was trying to do. Knew what i had to do. and was very much ready to do it.” 
Fowler moved to no. 5 in the world, not quite part of the “big Three” this year of Jordan spieth, rory mcilroy and Jason day, but perhaps on the cusp of it. 
“They’ve clearly played the best out of anyone over the past few months to couple of years,” Fowler said. “so i’m trying to be a small fourth thrown in there. but there’s a lot of other really good young players playing well right now, as well.” 
stenson was a runner-up in a Fedex cup playoff event for the second straight week, and this one figures to sting. 
he holed a 15-foot birdie putt on no. 10 for a three-shot lead. and when Fowler hit a bold 5-wood to 10 feet for birdie on no. 11 for a two-shot swing, the swede answered with a 35-foot birdie on the 12th to restore the cushion to two shots. 
it all changed quickly and dramatically on the par-3 16th. 
“i obviously pulled the wrong club on 16 and was try­ing to get the most out of a 7-iron into the wind and bal­looned that one a little bit and that was the crucial mistake. making double there was re­ally a killer,” stenson said. “i tried to get those two shots back or at least one to force a playoff on the last two holes and couldn’t manage to do it.” 
The final hour was every bit as tense as The players championship in may, ex­cept instead of five play­ers having a chance to win, this was a duel with stenson the entire back nine. Fowler didn’t make any birdies af­ter his long putt on the 14th, but he didn’t have to. where he thrived was off the tee and his iron play into the greens. 
swinging freely, he was never really out of position until he went just long of the green on the par-5 closing hole with his second shot. 
he played it safe with a put­ter to 10 feet, putting pressure on stenson to the very end. 
Fowler finished at 15-under 269 and moved to no. 3 in the Fedex cup behind day and spieth, with stenson at no. 4 and bubba watson at no. 5. 
charley hoffman bounced back from a 76 to close with a 67 and finish alone in third. 
one of the loudest cheers was for a player who had no chance to win. william mcgirt was on the verge of being eliminated from the Fedex cup when he holed a 7-iron from the fairway on no. 17 for eagle. a par on the 18th hole allowed him to sneak into the top 70 and advance to the third playoff event north of chicago in two weeks. 
hunter mahan kept his streak going by closing with a 70 to tie for fourth, moving him from no. 91 to no. 52. mahan is the only player who has never missed a Fedex cup playoff event since this series began in 2007. Jerry Kelly made birdie on the last hole for a 72 to get into the top 70. Keegan bradley also got in. 
Two other players imploded on the back nine to end their season. 
Kevin streelman appeared to be safe in the top 70 until he shot 42 on the back nine for a 
77. carlos ortiz of mexico had four straight birdies and was making a late bid for chicago until he took triple bogey on no. 9 and then shot 41 on the back nine for a 71. 

MLB | rangers 3, mariners 0 
beltre’s two-run single helps Texas shut out seattle 
Associated Press 

seaTTle — adrian beltre lined a two-run, bases-load­ed single in the sixth inning and yovani gallardo pitched into the sixth as the Texas rangers beat the seattle mariners 3-0 monday. 
Texas picked up a game on al west-leading houston, which lost to oakland 10-9. The astros lead the rangers by 2 games. 
The rangers’ go-ahead rally began with delino deshields drawing a one-out walk from roenis elias (4-8). shin-soo choo followed with a single to center, and elias then hit prince Fielder with a pitch, loading the bases. 
beltre worked a full count, then punched a fastball to right, scoring deshields and choo. 
mariners shortstop Ketel marte prevented further damage with a nifty grab of a one-hop grounder by elvis andrus that he turned into a double play. 
gallardo (12-9) picked up the victory, working 5 1-3 in­nings. he allowed five hits, struck out four and walked two. 
The rangers added a run in the seventh on con­secutive wild pitches by rob rasmussen, allowing rougned odor to advance to third then home. 
shawn Tolleson finished the ninth to pick up his 30th save in 32 opportunities. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

MLB 

Mets, Yankees get wins in hunt for October 
Associated Press 
Mets 8, Nationals 5 
washington — yoenis cespedes homered and dou­bled twice, david wright hit a go-ahead single in the seventh inning and new york ended washington’s five-game win­ning streak monday to open a key nl east series. 
michael conforto and wilmer Flores also homered for new york, which increased its division lead to five games over the nats with 25 remain­ing. The teams play twice more in this set. 
dario alvarez (1-0), pitching in the majors for the first time this season, faced only one batter — bryce harper — and struck him out to get his first major league win. Five mets relievers combined for 5 2-3 scoreless innings, with Jeurys Familia closing for his 37th save. 
wilson ramos hit a grand slam for washington. 
nationals ace max scherzer allowed five runs over six in­nings. blake Treinen (2-3) took over in the seventh as washington used four relievers during a three-run burst by the mets. 
Yankees 8, Orioles 6 
new york — rookie greg bird hit a tiebreaking, three-run homer off brian matusz in the seventh inning, and new york rallied past reeling baltimore. 
alex rodriguez and John ryan murphy also homered for the yankees (77-59), who overcame a 4-1 deficit and im­proved to 18 games over .500 for the first time since 2012. with his 29th home run this season, a-rod got his 3,054th career hit and passed rod carew for sole possession of 22nd place. 
Jonathan schoop and manny machado homered for the orioles (65-72), who have lost 15 of 18 since and faded from al wild-card contention. 
Justin wilson (5-0) got the win. andrew miller pitched the ninth for his 32nd save in 33 chances, allowing chris davis’ two-out single, his 101st rbi. 
Jorge rondon (0-1) took the loss. 
Red Sox 11, Blue Jays 4 
boston — Jackie bradley Jr. had four hits with a two-run home run and four rbis, rick porcello pitched into the eighth inning and boston outslugged al east-leading Toronto. 
The blue Jays lost for just the fourth time in 16 games. They had their lead atop the east sliced to a half game over the new york yankees, who beat baltimore 8-6. 
bradley added two singles and a double, and Travis shaw hit a two-run homer for boston, which posted its fourth straight win and eighth in 11 games. 
Josh donaldson and Justin smoak each hit solo homers for Toronto. donaldson’s was his 37th. 
porcello (7-12) had his third consecutive strong start since coming off the disabled list fol­lowing a right triceps strain. he allowed four runs — three earned — and eight hits over 7 1-3 innings. 
mark buehrle (14-7) allowed five runs in 3 1-3 innings. 
Cubs 9, Cardinals 0 
st. louis — dexter Fowler had a leadoff home run and two-run double in the first two in­nings and dan haren worked seven innings for chicago in a 
paid adverTisemenT 
win over st. louis. 
The nl central-leading cardinals maintained a 5 1/2­game lead over pittsburgh, which lost 3-1 to cincinnati. The cubs are 7 1/2 games back. 
addison russell’s three-run homer capped a five-run third that made it 8-0. The cubs have won four in a row and got an 11­game trip off to a rocking start. 
haren (9-9) had five strike­outs and two walks. he con­tributed a single and sacrifice fly in chicago’s second victory in eight games in st. louis this season. 
lance lynn (11-9) surren­dered six runs in 2 1-3 innings on nine days rest after getting extra time to recover from a sprained ankle in his last start. 
Indians 3, White Sox 2 
chicago — ryan raburn hit a pair of solo home runs and Trevor bauer pitched two-hit ball for seven innings as cleveland beat the white sox, ending chicago’s four-game winning streak. 
raburn has eight multihom­er games in his career, four of them against the white sox. he connected both times against chris sale (12-8) and is 10 for 33 with four home runs lifetime versus the lefty ace. 
sale (12-8) struck out eight in seven innings. he has fanned 247 this year, nearing the sin-gle-season team record of 269 set by ed walsh in 1908. 
bauer (11-11) shrugged off a lack of command early to allow two runs on two hits in seven innings. he walked five and struck out six. 
cody allen pitched the ninth for his 29th save. 
Brewers 9, Marlins 1 
miami — hernan perez had three hits and three rbis and Zach davies earned his first major league win as milwaukee beat miami. 
Khris davis homered and drove in two and Jonathan lucroy had two doubles and knocked in a run for the brewers, who have won seven of eight. 
davies (1-0) pitched seven innings, allowing one run and four hits in his second start.   
\he struck out four. 
davies retired 11 straight bat­ters after giving up a leadoff single to dee gordon. 




The observer | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SMC 

Belles teams deal with mixed fortunes 
Observer Staff Report 
Volleyball 
saint mary’s won three of four contests at the elmhurst Tournament over the week­end in elmhurst, illinois, defeating north park, lawrence and wheaton to gear up for conference play. 
during Friday’s play, the belles (4-1) won all six sets en route to wins over north park (3-3) and lawrence (1­4). despite a straightforward 25-14 first set against north park, the belles were made to work for the last two, win­ning 25-22 and 25-21. 
saint mary’s was led with 10 kills against the vikings by sophomore right-side hit­ter rachel bonek, who set a career high, and junior left-side hitter meaghan gibbons, while junior setter/ outside hitter alexis grady notched 21 assists. 
The belles’ win over lawrence was more straight­forward, with saint mary’s taking the three sets, 25-17, 25-16 and 25-12. after her 10­kill performance earlier in the day, gibbons set her own career high with 15 against the vikings in the second contest, and senior outside hitter Katie hecklinski post­ed a double-double, with 14 kills and 16 digs. 
saturday’s competition was a little harsher to the belles, who played a pair of five-set contests, losing to host no. 19 elmhurst (4-0) before defeating wheaton (2-2). 
The belles got out to a two-set lead against the 
MLB | braves 7, phillies 2 
nationally ranked blue Jays, winning the first two sets 25-23 and 27-25, but failed to hang on for the upset; elmhurst took the final three sets, 25-15, 25-23 and 15-4. 
hecklinski (15 and 23) and gibbons (15 and 18) led the team in kills and assists, with junior setter clare mcmillan leading in assists, with 27. 
saint mary’s rebounded in the second game of the day, however, to cap the tourna­ment off with a 3-1 record in a win over wheaton. 
like in the earlier game, the belles raced out to a two-set lead behind 27-25 and 25­14 wins, before seeing their advantage vanish as the Thunder snagged 28-26 and 25-14 wins in the third and fourth sets. 
in the tiebreaker fifth set though, saint mary’s buck­led down to grab a 15-9 win, and the match, to finish the weekend. gibbons re-set her career high with 20 kills for the game and was named to the all-tournament team, while hecklinski had her third double-double of the tournament to aid in the belles’ victory. The setting duo of mcmillan (28) and grady (25) led in assists once more for saint mary’s, who will now prepare for confer­ence play; the belles host no. 1 calvin, which reached the semifinals of the ncaa tournament last season, wednesday. 
Soccer 
saint mary’s dropped its home opener saturday to manchester in yet another nail-biting 1-0 match. 
The belles (0-2) played their first home game of the season against the spartans (1-1) at Junior irish airport Fields on saturday. coming off a narrow 1-0 defeat in their first game against bethel, saint mary’s fell vic­tim to yet another late, first-half goal that ultimately decided the match. 
early on in the game, the belles applied offensive pressure and had several crosses into the spartans’ box that were stopped by manchester freshman goalie caroline smith. however, the spartans’ winner came with just under 10 minutes remaining in the first half, when sophomore midfielder bethany molnar crossed the ball into the belles’ box, and freshman forward mariam aly was able to get a foot on it to put it into the back of the net. The belles were then unable to mount a second-half comeback, despite out-shooting the spartans, 5-1. 
The next game on the docket for saint mary’s is a home matchup with albion on wednesday. The game marks the beginning of con­ference play for the belles this season. 
The britons (2-1, 0-0 miaa) also have yet to play a con­ference game this season but are expected to be competi­tive in the miaa. projected to take third place in the conference in its preseason poll, albion possesses a strong offensive group that 

braves end their 12-game losing streak 
Associated Press 
The atlanta braves ended their 12-game losing streak, beating the philadelphia phillies 7-2 monday night be­hind the hitting of hector olivera and the pitching of williams perez. 
The smallest crowd in the 12­year history of citizens bank park — 15,125 — saw the braves stop their worst skid since 1988. 
atlanta also had lost 13 in a row on the road since defeating the phillies on aug. 2. 
olivera homered, dou­bled and drove in four runs. Freddie Freeman homered and Jace peterson and andrelton simmons each got three hits for the braves. 
perez (5-6) threw seven strong innings. The rookie had been 0-6 with a 9.50 era over his last seven games. 
perez earned his first victory since June 20, giving up two runs and six hits while striking out seven. 
aaron harang (5-15) leads the majors in losses. he is 1-12 with a 6.33 era over his last 17 starts. 
brian bogusevic homered for the phillies, who have lost four straight and 11 of 14. 
olivera, the centerpiece ac­quisition of the braves’ three-team deal with the dodgers and marlins in July, entered 2 for 17 in five big league games. 
Freeman hit a two-run hom­er, his 16th, in the first. The braves began the day with a majors-low 83 home runs. 
olivera’s two-run double in the fourth highlighted a three-run inning that made it 5-1. he hit a two-run homer in the ninth. 
bogusevic, called up Friday from Triple-a lehigh valley, homered as a pinch-hitter in the fifth in his first at-bat in the big leagues since 2013. 
TRAINER’S ROOM 
braves: olivera returned to the lineup after sitting out sunday’s game at washington with a bruised left foot. 
phillies: c cameron rupp was back in the lineup. he missed two games after getting hit in the arm by a pitch. 
UP NEXT 
phillies rookie rhp aaron nola (5-2, 4.02) tries to re­bound from his worst outing when he starts Tuesday night. nola gave up a career-worst six runs on nine hits in four in­nings of a 9-4 loss at the mets has averaged more than two Kehoe finished the day with goals per game on nearly 12 a score of 87, placing her in a shots per contest. tie for 17th place. sophomore 
last  wednesday. The  braves  
haven’t  announced  their  
starter.  


The belles, meanwhile, Kaitlyn cartone finished have yet to put the ball in with a score of 94, placing the back of the net this sea-30th after the first day. son despite totaling 18 shots on the second and final day in their first two games. The of the tournament, the belles defense, on the other hand, shot a team score of 353 and has conceded only two goals finished the tournament in on 25 shots against and will fourth place with a two-day need to put forth another score of 696. mahoney and strong effort if the belles are carlson matched each other to walk away from tomor-once more, shooting 88 to tie row’s game with a victory. for 15th place in the individ­
saint mary’s is set to take ual rankings, while Kehoe the pitch against albion to-led saint mary’s with a sec-morrow at 4 p.m. at Junior ond-day 84 to notch an 18th­irish airport Fields. place finish. cartone lodged 
a 95 to finish 31st among Golf individuals. 
The belles finished washington university fourth at the seven-team in st. louis took home top olivet labor day Tee-honors at the tournament off Tournament this past with a team score of 617, weekend at the medalist and depauw and illinois golf course in marshall, wesleyan also finished michigan. ahead of the belles. olivet, 
on the first day of the Franklin and ancilla fin-tournament, thee belles fin-ished behind saint mary’s ished with a team score of in fifth, sixth and seventh 343, placing them fourth in place, respectively. the team standings. Junior This weekend, the belles captains ali mahoney and will host the o’brien courtney carlson both fin-national invitational at ished the first 18 tied for Knollwood country club in sixth with individual scores south bend on sunday and of 81, while freshman Taylor monday. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 




paid adverTisemenT 

Boxx 
conTinued From page 16 
successful and helping me along the way,” boxx said. “i had friends who would watch Zoe for an hour in the morning so i could go work out. Then my husband took nine weeks off of work to watch her while i went to the world cup. 
“Knowing that those people were willing to sacrifice so much for me to be successful pushed me to want to be successful. i’ll eventu­ally be able to tell my daughter how hard it was, but how i was able to work so hard to get through it.” 
boxx believes that in the end, her steady veteran presence was what made united states head coach Jill ellis keep her on the squad. boxx was able to advise rising young stars, like chicago red stars team­mates Julie Johnston and christen press, on how to deal with the high-pressure tournament. 
“it’s nice to be that experienced veteran player,” boxx said. “you want to leave a legacy. you want to help the next generation be better than you. 
“Julie, i really had some great conversations with her about what it takes to become a leader. she’s a rookie, and now has to focus on more than just herself and how she can be better. To see her shine in the world cup was awesome.” 
“i look at some of these younger players and think, ‘man, i didn’t make the national team until i was 26 years old.’ These players that are so much younger than that are so much more technical and it’s so fun to see.” 
it’s been 12 years since boxx her­self was a national team rookie. in fact, when she was named to the 
u.s. squad prior to the 2003 world cup, she was the first uncapped player to ever make a world cup squad. when she made her world cup debut against sweden, she scored in a 3-1 win. 
she could not have guessed then how her career would unfold, she said. 
“i looked at Julie Foudy and mia hamm and Kristine lilly, and they had been on the team for 15 years or so, and i was like, ‘i don’t see my­self being able to sustain it for that long,’” boxx said. 
now she heads into retire­ment with no regrets and endless accolades. 
“i’m going to be a mom. i’m go­ing to be at home and not be in ho­tel rooms all the time,” boxx said. “but also, i want to coach kids. i’m already starting to plan a couple camps next season and next year. i want to help that next generation be better at soccer.” 
beyond that, she’ll also trav­el from her home in portland, oregon, to the place where she first played soccer on a major stage 
— here, notre dame. The school will honor her at the football game against massachusetts on sept. 26. 
“college was the first time i rep­resented something bigger than just a little club team or just my­self,” boxx said. “you represented your school and your teammates, and i loved that about notre dame.” 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 



conTinued From page 16 
a pair of freshmen, ella Fennelly and Kelly hart, fin­ished 11th and 14th to complete notre dame’s scoring for the meet. 
sparks said Foreman’s sec-ond-place finish was important in the sophomore’s pursuit of a spot in the varsity seven this year. 
“That was a big step for her,” sparks said. “she’s someone that is making a run for our varsity team this year. saturday was a big step for her in terms of getting one of those top seven spots.” 
on top of taking home team honors, the boilermakers also had the top individual fin­ishers in each race — sopho­more Jeremy craven won the men’s race while junior hope schmelzie won the women’s. 
while the younger runners were competing in valparaiso, sparks said the returning var­sity runners had the weekend to train and elevate their fit­ness levels prior to the national catholic championship, which the irish host at notre dame golf course on sept. 18. it will be the next meet for the irish, whose women enter as the de­fending champions. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2015 | The observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 



SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: an innovative approach to work and personal projects will help you stand out. Think outside the box, but remain within your budget. compromise and creativity will lead to solutions that will outperform any competition you encounter. you should aim to please, but not at the expense of falling behind. put your priorities in order and your goals first. your numbers are 4, 11, 17, 29, 33, 35, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t get worked up over nothing. Focus on fun, entertainment and personal improvement and you will avoid letting your emotions get the better of you. say little, do a lot and strive for self-perfection. romance will enhance your day. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): use your energy wisely. ask for help, but have incentives ready to ensure that the assistance you receive is top-notch. Keep an open mind and learn as you go. a visit to a friend or relative will be enlightening. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make positive changes, work on your personal relationships and be realistic when it comes to your goals and the promises you make. let your charm and intellect lead you to overall improvements. love is on the rise. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): your emotions will be exaggerated. offer compassion in all your dealings. refuse to let what others do daunt you, and don’t be afraid to do your own thing. say little and you’ll avoid opposition. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): put yourself in situations that are unfamiliar and will add a little adventure to your life. Trying something new and sharing your experience with someone you enjoy being around will result in future plans and commitments. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): do your best to get along with everyone you encounter. acceptance and recognition will be the key to reaching your goals. be prepared to share. what you are willing to do for others will ensure that you get the same in return. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t push or allow anyone to push you. it’s important that you size up whatever situation you face and deal with matters rationally. don’t let an emotional matter interfere with your responsibilities. don’t make any impulsive moves. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): interact with your peers and make a point to meet new people by participating in an interest you want to pursue. a proposal you make will be well received by most, but someone who is jealous will oppose you. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t let someone else take over your projects. Jump into action and make things happen. you will make an impression and be complimented for your contributions. your charm will spark a romantic evening with someone special. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): personal issues will perplex you. confusion will set in while traveling or communicating with people who don’t think the same way you do. make your point clear to avoid being misinterpreted. money will come from an unusual source. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put personal improvements at the top of your list. spending time with peers, pets or family members will bring about changes that can influence your finances. planning interesting projects with children will change your life and your attitude. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): an optimistic outlook will go a long way. information will be offered that can help you advance. don’t fear taking an unfamiliar route in order to reach your goals. let your intuition and past experience guide you. explore different lifestyles. 


Birthday Baby: you are tasteful, gracious and accommodating. you are respectful and compassionate. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
MOROT  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
USISE  

 
 
 
 
 

KNYSIN  

 
 
 
 
 
 

ACTPUE  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


Print your answer here: 


(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SHIFT EXACT GENTLY FORGOTYesterday’s 
Answer: The male retriever thought that the femaleretriever was — FETCHING 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

WAKING THE ECHOES | shannon boXX 
Boxx reflects on ND career, World Cup win 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 
with the united states’ women’s world cup victory over the sum­mer, shannon boxx concluded her professional soccer career the same way she began her time at notre dame: with a championship. 
boxx, a 1999 notre dame grad and a mainstay in the u.s. national Team’s midfield since 2003, was a freshman in 1995. That year, she appeared in 25 games as the irish smashed their way to the pro­gram’s first-ever ncaa title. 
after winning a national title in her first year, she was a part of the two highest-scoring teams in ncaa history — the 1996 irish scored 140 goals and the 1997 squad followed up with 135. 
individually, boxx finished her collegiate career with 39 goals and 57 assists, placing her at 13th in the program record book for points, and sixth in assists. 
and she was just getting started, as far as soccer goes. 
since leaving notre dame, boxx won three olympic gold medals for the united states and, of course, recently added the world cup to her crowded trophy case. Just don’t ask her which win was the most satisfying. 
“i hate that question. it’s a good question, but too hard. i’ve been a part of a lot of championships,” boxx said, laughing. “i’ll never forget that first one, though. notre dame was the first place that i got to win something so big.” 
shortly after returning home from world cup celebrations across the country, the 38-year-old announced that she would retire. The victory Tour matches, cur­rently underway, will be her last as a player. 
“i thought i was done in ’08, but i was just enjoying myself so much,” boxx said. “Then i thought i was done in 2012, but i still felt some­thing was missing. i think it was that world cup title.” 
The 2015 world cup win was a huge milestone for u.s. women’s soccer, as the country hadn’t tri­umphed since the historic 1999 run. 
“i’ve been a part of four world cups, and to just barely miss out on each one, then finally come back this time around and win one — plus the journey i personally had just to get on the — it was pretty special,” boxx said. 
boxx’s road to the cup was cer­tainly not an easy one. There was a question whether she would even make the roster this year coming off of a knee injury and the birth of her daughter, Zoe. That was on top of her lupus, the autoimmune dis­ease she’s been battling for years. 
“i had a lot of support, a lot of great people wanting me to be 
see boXX PAGE 13 


ND CROSS COUNTRY | crusader open 
notre dame places second to open season 

By DOMINIC BUSH 
sports writer 
For the 13th consecutive year, notre dame cross coun­try opened its season by par­taking in the crusader open, where both the irish men and women’s squads finished as runners-up at sunset hill Farm county park in valparaiso, indiana, on Friday evening. 
purdue took home top marks in both the men’s and women’s races at the three-team event, hosted by valparaiso, and irish associate head coach matthew sparks said the meet offered a chance to get the team’s young runners experience early in the year. 
“it was a good opportunity for our underclassmen to com­pete,” sparks said. “it helped some freshmen who are tran­sitioning from high school running to college running get a taste of college running in a smaller field with only two other teams there. it gave our younger athletes the chance to get their feet wet in a less-com­petitive environment.” 
leading the way for the irish men was sophomore calvin Kraft, who finished fourth overall in the six-kilometer race with a time of 18:47.9. Junior chris marco and sophomore Kevin pulliam finished sev­enth and ninth, posting times of 18:56.8 and 18:58.4 respec­tively, while freshman aaron roe (19:29.7) and sophomore billy dolan (19:42.7) closed out the irish quintet’s second-place performance. 
“calvin [Kraft] is someone that was on the fringe of our var­sity a year ago as a freshman,” said sparks. “his performance on Friday went a long way in so­lidifying a varsity spot for him.” 
notre dame’s top finisher overall Friday was sophomore sydney Foreman, who finished second in the women’s five-kilo­meter race with a time of 17:56.2. like the men, the irish women saw two further top-10 finishes, as junior elli brady finished sev­enth in 18:38.2 and sophomore Kaitlin Frei placed ninth with a time of 19:09.6. 
see Xc PAGE 14 






