ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNcOVEr NEWSPAPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE dAmE ANd ANd rEPOrT SAINT mAry’S IT AccurATELy 

VOLumE 48, ISSuE 112 | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 
Gingrich to speak at Lincoln day dinner 
Notre Dame College Republicans invite former presidential candidate to speak on campus. 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News Editor 
Notre dame college republicans (Ndcr) has invit­ed former Speaker of the house and 2012 presidential candidate Newt gingrich for its annual Lincoln day dinner and Speech on April 15. 
“The Lincoln day dinner is an annual event that most republican organizations hold,” Ndcr president, senior mark gianfalla, said. “For us, we’ve had one as long as I’ve been here. … I think continually for the last 10 years our club has done it. 
“In the last few years we’ve re­ally picked up the fundraising aspect of it and basically in­creased our budget for the event 500 times what it was two years ago.” 
Last year, the club invited Fox News contributor and conserva­tive political pundit Ann coulter to speak at the Lincoln day events, drawing harsh criticism from several student groups and inspiring a series of protests on campus. 
The Lincoln day celebrations include a speech, which is free but ticketed and open to the public, that will be held April 15 at 6 p.m. in Washington hall, and the dinner that follows is 
see grINgrIch PAGE 4 

WEI LIN | The Observer 
Ann Coulter addresses the audience before the annual Lincoln Day Dinner last year. This year, Newt  Gingrich has been invited to present a speech for the annual event. 


Edit-a-thon aims to highlight notable women 

for digital Scholarship, Student 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 

Associate News Editor government and the history 



Club hosts Talk It Out Tuesday at Saint Mary’s 
By MARTHA REILLY 
News Writer 
The Saint mary’s and Notre dame communi­ties will gather Tuesday at 6 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, Le mans hall to discuss women in athletics. 
Notre dame senior Alison Leddy, founder of the female empowerment club Notre dames, said she hopes this week’s “Talk it Out Tuesday” event will strengthen the re­lationship between the two schools. 

“I recognize that most Notre dame women never go to Saint mary’s beauti­ful campus, yet we seem to expect Saint mary’s women to come to our campus for classes, clubs and social events,” Leddy said. 
“This Talk It Out Tuesday is a great opportunity to ex­plore Saint mary’s and to chat about the very inter­esting issues surrounding women in athletics.” 
Leddy said the club’s weekly discussions general­ly deal with issues that affect women, but this week’s topic is especially meaningful. 
“I have always been 
see dAmES PAGE 5 


Professor offers advice in ‘Last Lecture’ series 
asks student-nominated profes-what she would want to say if 
By JP GSCHWIND 

News Writer sors, “What wisdom would you she were giving a final speech to try to impart to the world if you her four children. The Last Lecture series 
“If the only people who were 
museum in South Bend, is open to  kicked off on monday evening  
Students, faculty and staff are  the public and will take place from  in Washington hall with a talk  
invited to gather in the hesburgh  12 p.m. to 5 p.m.  by maria mcKenna, senior asso­ 

Library’s center for digital Visiting assistant librarian Kai 
ciate director of the Education, 
Scholarship on Tuesday to create or Smith said participants will work 
Schooling and Society minor. 
edit Wikipedia pages for important from a list of local women who 
mcKenna is also an associ-

in this room were my four kids, 
what would I want them to 
know?” mcKenna said. 

She then began her speech 
by reading off a list of quotes 
and advice from her family and 
women in Notre dame and South do not have pages or whose pages 
ate professional specialist in 
friends whom she asked for 
Bend history. need updating. 
the department of Africana 
help in preparing her lecture. 
The Women’s history month “The majority of these women 
Studies. Sponsored by the aca-knew it was your last chance?” Although the content of each 
Edit-A-Thon, sponsored by 

demic affairs department of mcKenna said she prepared 
hesburgh Libraries, the center see WIKIPEdIA PAGE  5 
student government, the series her lecture by thinking about see LAST LEcTurE PAGE 3 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINTPAGE 7 ScENE PAGE 8 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 BASEBALL PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney                         Alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Lesley Stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: Wei Lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin mcAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach Llorens Graphics Editor: Erin rice Multimedia Editor: Brian Lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: Elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine Park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is your favorite restroom on campus? 

Luke Duane 


Ryan Janeck 
freshman 

junior 
morrissey manor 

Zahm house 
“In the basement of morrissey.” 
“mod Quad or Keenan” 
Maura McHugh 


Sydney DeVoe 
freshman 

freshman 
Pangborn 

Lewis hall 
“geddes hall.” 
“The ones in dPAc for sure.” 
Haley Rosenbach 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 

“Zahm’s first floor women’s restroom.” 


Patrick Fleisher 
freshman 
Alumni hall 
“The handicap stall on the first floor of Alumni.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du Lac and Saint mary’s college.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-chief, managing Editor, Assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
Post Office Information 

The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 

Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTmASTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Kayla mullen Alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Selena Ponio Brian Plamondon rachel O’grady Nicole caratas 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Keri O’mara John darr 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Islam and the MFA Student “Behind the Beautiful “Prayer from Around The Paschal Vigil 
Kevin Song Tabitha ricketts 
Building of America” Reading Forevers” the World” Mass 
Hesburgh Center Hammes Bookstore DeBartolo Performing Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred 4 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arts Center Center Heart 
Corrections 

Lecture by Amir Reading sponsored by 7 p.m.-9:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 9 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as Hussain. English Department. National Theatre Live. Jewish Seder meal. In observance of Holy a professional publication and 
Saturday. 

strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, 
Last Lecture Series Softball Mindful Meditation Stations of the Cross Easter Break 
however, recognize that we will make 
Washington Hall Melissa Cook Stadium Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred Campus-wide 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Center Heart All day 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Lecture by Mike The Irish take on 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7:15 p.m. No classes in session. 
we can correct our error. 

Seelinger. Eastern Michigan. Weekly meditation. For Good Friday. 


Society promotes support of women engineers 
being classified as a medi-day, where South Bend girl 
By ANDREA VALE 

News Writer um section, with 50 to 100 Scouts are taught about en-members, to a large section. gineering through crafts and 
Before entering her senior currently, the Notre dame other activities, montalvo year of high school, now-col-chapter, of which montalvo said. Profits from several lege senior Jillian montalvo is now president, has over of their events — including attended the Introduction 200 members and is one of This Is Engineering and the to Engineering Program at the largest student organiza-Trick-or-SWEet run — ben-Notre dame. As part of the tions on campus, montalvo efit charity, montalvo said. program, she also attend-said. According to cathy ed an event hosted by the “SWE’s mission is to stim-Pieronek, assistant dean Society of Women Engineers ulate women to achieve their of academic affairs of the (SWE), during which she lis-full potential as engineers college of Engineering and tened to speakers from the and leaders, expand the im-advisor to the society, the group. When she arrived ages of the engineering pro-Notre dame chapter started on campus, montalvo knew fession as a positive force in around 1977. what she wanted to do. improving the quality of life “dr. Jerry marley, who was 
“The first thing I did and demonstrate the value when I came here freshman of diversity,” montalvo said. 
“SWE’s mission is to 

year was sign up for SWE,” SWE has hosted a variety 
stimulate women 

montalvo said. of events in order to achieve 
to achieve their 

Over the past year, the this goal, montalvo said. group has met on the first They played a large part in 
full potential as 

Wednesday of every month, Engineering Industry day, 
engineers and 

discussed future plans and a career fair that connects opportunities it provides for to meet other collegiate and 
leaders, expand 

its members, montalvo said. professional members of events per month, montalvo with possible engineers for 
hosted an average of four engineering companies 
the images of “It has something for ev-SWE and to listen to their said. Since montalvo’s fresh-hire, and Early Admit Week, 
the engineering eryone,” montalvo said. stories. SWE has been a huge man year, membership has montalvo said. much of 
“For first year students, it’s part of my college career.” 
profession as a 

a great source of encour-Next year, Katrina 
grown so substantially that their work involves South 
positive force in 

the group has gone from Bend, including girl Scout 
agement and mentoring. We gonzales will take over improving the plan several events specifi-as president of the SWE, quality of life and cally geared towards first gonzales said, after having 
year students to help them joined the Society her fresh-
demonstrate the 

decide if engineering is right man year. 
value of diversity.” 

for them and also, if they do “As the next president, I Jillian Montalvo like engineering, which field am excited to lead a club of president of engineering they should such strong and intelligent Society of Women Engineers choose. individuals — yes, men can 
“It’s also a great place to join too,” she said. assistant dean at the time, meet other women in engi-“I hope to continue to wanted to start it. I would neering, to make friends and shape our section into the guess it was because women to build relationships on club its members want it to were still a fairly recent ad-which you might otherwise be. As president, I also in­dition to Notre dame and a miss out,” she said. “There’s tend to focus on including small part of engineering. also the professional devel-more outreach efforts to the 
“We had no women fac-opment aspect of the soci-local area and partnering ulty. I would think that he ety. The biggest part of this, with other clubs on campus thought it would be impor-I would say, would be the re-to have a broader impact. tant for our women to have gional and national confer-“I look forward to working access to professional wom-ences that I’ve been able to with so many inspired and en engineers for role models, attend, thanks to SWE. passionate individuals.” inspiration and mentoring.” “These conferences offer 
The most important as-amazing networking oppor-Contact Andrea Vale at  pect of SWE is the amazing tunities, and it’s amazing avale@nd.edu 
Last Lecture 

put-together,” mcKenna said. husband saved her from de­mcKenna said she is able to spair and made sure she 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
find happiness in the messi-recovered. She said the hon­
ness and imperfection in her esty in their relationship was piece of advice differed, life, whether they be a mas-the basis for everything they mcKenna said she found a sive pile of dirty laundry or accomplished. common theme of “keeping commitments to taking care “you can’t be afraid of it real” and staying honest of others. telling the truth in relation-to yourself and those around “The faster we come to re-ships,” mcKenna said. you. She said she realized alize things are messy, the mcKenna quoted former the importance of this max-sooner we will be happy,” Notre dame professor carol im from an early age and mcKenna said. mcLeod, wife of former Notre throughout the rest of her According to mcKenna, ev-dame basketball coach John life. eryone has many identities macLeod, who said relation­
mcKenna said she as-in life — from roles as family ships are a “90/10 deal and sumed an incredible amount members and friends to jobs not a 50/50 one” and in order of responsibility in her fam-and duties — but individuals to have a successful relation­ily at an early age and was must not compartmentalize ship, you have to be willing afraid to communicate her everything they do and risk to be on both sides of the fears and insecurities to losing their integrity. split. her parents. ultimately, she “don’t confuse what you do concluding her lecture, was able to find a way to be with who you are,” mcKenna mcKenna said when she fi­honest with them and find said. nally dies, she hopes that peace. Even still, mcKenna mcKenna said relation-people will remember her said relationships and life in ships are essential to find-integrity and her willingness general are inevitably messy ing stability in life, citing to give her all in whatever despite what the culture the support of her husband. she did. around us says. When she was plagued with 
“The world we live in anxiety and considering Contact JP Gschwind at   tells us we have to look suicide, mcKenna said her jgschwin@nd.edu 



ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 

Gingrich 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
for members of the club and community members. 
gianfalla said he antici­pates 250 attendees at the dinner, a dramatic increase from last year’s 85 attendees and 30 the year before. 
“Anybody who has an affil­iation with the club is invited 
— dues-paying members ob­viously have first access, and then faculty and staff who want to attend,” gianfalla said. 
“We have some alumni … but also a large portion of the local community that is sup­portive, both financially and through campaign efforts and club events — we invite those people as well. This year, a large portion of the attendees will be community members,” he said. 
To fund what gianfalla de­scribed as a “$25,000 event,” the club has turned local party affiliates and national organizations for assistance. In particular, Ndcr formed a partnership with the young America’s Foundation (yAF), a group that describes itself as “the principal outreach organization for the conser­vative movement.” 
“We started a partnership with the young America’s Foundation, which is a group that supports collegiate ef­forts to bring in conserva­tive speakers,” gianfalla said. “[yAF] negotiate the contracts with the speaker. They have existing relation­ships, and they contribute financially to bring in that speaker. 
“… They contribute thou­sands of dollars to our speak­er fees every year; this year they’re contributing a large portion — at least half — and the rest of that is coming from the local republican Party … and individuals in the community such as local party members and people who have supported us in the past who live locally. We also get some money from the university as a club, and a small portion of that comes from dues as well,” gianfalla said. 
In choosing the Lincoln day speaker, gianfalla said budget limitations played a role in the decision but that the speaker’s “notoriety” and ability to draw a crowd was also a factor. 
“We want someone with good name recognition, who can fill a 650-person audito­rium,” he said. “We also want [someone] who can add qual­ity discussion, quality com­mentary during the speech.” 
Ndcr secretary, sopho­more dylan Stevenson, add­ed that gingrich proved a good choice for the dinner because of his unique per­spective and experiences in government. 
“To mention that gingrich was Speaker of the house achievements,” Stevenson through the student body. [of representatives], house said in an email. “he moreover, given that we’re minority Whip and that he served over 20 years as a already seeing potential 2016 

representative in the house “We want someone and had the ear of Presidents 
“To mention 

reagan and clinton. 
with good name that Gingrich 
“One of the main reasons 
recognition, was Speaker of 

we invited him was to hear who can fill him reflect on these experi­
the House [of a 650-person ences and really give the club 
Representatives], 

a good idea as to what it’s 
auditorium. 
House Minority 

like to have access to the cor-
We also want Whip and that 

ridors of power. As a former [someone] who Presidential candidate, he 
he was Time’s can add quality can provide a really unique 
‘Man of the Year’ 

perspective about that pro-
discussion, quality in 1994 would be 
cess as the two parties gear 
commentary to mention just a 

up for primaries. during the “I think one of the big 
few of his many speech.” things that he’ll do to help 
achievements. ” 

dialogue is draw attention to 
Mark Gianfalla Dylan Stevenson 

the Party and its principles. 
president secretary 

I think that, by highlighting 
Notre Dame College Notre Dame College 

how conservative principles 
Republicans Republicans 

would help this country, he’ll get the proverbial ball was Time’s ‘man of the year’ rolling, and I think we’ll see candidates make themselves in 1994 would be to men-intelligent discussion about known, I think he’ll add fuel tion just a few of his many these principles filtering to the fire of presidential 
PAId AdVErTISEmENT 

intrigue that is starting to grow here,” Stevenson said. 
According to gianfalla, gingrich will speak on “do­mestic and foreign policy” in his speech, in line with the events that Ndcr has par­ticipated in and hosted so far this year. 
“This year, we wanted to choose someone who would follow the theme of our pro­gramming,” gianfalla said. “We had a big rick Santorum speech at the beginning of the year, and we’ve had a lot of political discussion at our meetings and as well as a lot of debate. 
“We really wanted to en­gage the knowledge base of the student body … to broad­en that base on issues. I think [Newt gingrich] will foster that aspect of our program­ming this year very well.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



Wikipedia 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
don’t have pages at all, except for, I think, a few that are related to Notre dame history,” she said. “For the majority, people are go­ing to be able to create pages for them.” 
The Edit-A-Thon is part of a wider effort in South Bend to in­crease representation of women on the Internet encyclopedia’s pages. Similar events took place earlier this month at the St. Joseph county Public Library and the history museum, as part of the the South Bend’s 150th anniversary celebrations. 
Smith said participants will use the library’s resources, including the university Archives, to find the information for the pages, and there will be help for people who have never edited Wikipedia before. 
“For people who are beginners, we have some training that we can give them, teach them how to edit Wikipedia pages, and the librar­ians will be available to assist the people with scholarly research and citing,” she said. 
Among the women whose ar­ticles will be added to Wikipedia’s nearly 4.8 million are Florence Epsy, the first female Notre dame employee and librarian; delores Leibeler, the first female reporter in Notre dame Stadium’s press box; and Isabel charles and Sr. John miriam Jones, two associate provosts in the 1970s. 

The list of women important to South Bend history includes Sr. maura Brannick, who founded the St. Joseph health center; Janet Allen, the first woman elected to the South Bend common council; and Jean Savarese, a cos­tume preservationist known as “the costume lady.” 
“There are artists and teachers,” she said. “There’s the former head of the South Bend Public Library, Virginia Tutt. There are a number of pretty amazing women on this list.” 
Smith said while one of the goals of the Edit-A-Thon is to close a “gender gap” in Wikipedia editing — according to a 2010 Wikimedia survey, only 13 percent of Wikipedia editors are women — anyone is welcome to attend. 
“We definitely want to be teach­ing people about the library, the skills that we can teach people and also the sources that we pro­vide,” she said. “But in addition, it’s Women’s history month, and learning about the women im­portant to Notre dame and South Bend history, and how you can research, write and publish their stories in Wikipedia.” 
Contact Emily McConville at  emcconv1@nd.edu 
dames 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 1 
interested in hosting Talk it Out Tuesdays at Saint mary’s because I want Notre dames to be as inclusive, collabor­ative and supportive of the women in the Notre dame and Saint mary’s family as possible,” Leddy said. 
“We’ve reached out to coaches at Saint mary’s because the input of fe­male athletes would be ex­
tremely  valuable  in  this  
conversation.”  
Although  Leddy  encour­ 

ages participation of ath­letes in this week’s Talk it Out Tuesday, she said that all are welcome to discuss this topic. 
“For the non-athletes, there is absolutely room to contribute about percep­tions of female athletics and the treatment of female sports fans,” Leddy said. 
“It’s a great chance to learn more, listen to in­sights from others, and get inspired.” 
Leddy said she worked closely with senior and com­munity co-chair of Saint mary’s student government association, Emily getz, to coordinate the event. Notre dames hopes this week’s discussion will spark week­ly participation from Saint 

“Through society, women and men are given these distinct norms, but in my opinion, not every man or woman fits these characteristics. People believe that because men are bigger, faster and stronger, women should play by a separate set of rules. This is not necessarily the case.” 
Emily Getz 
senior 
mary’s students, getz said. 

“Alison and I are hoping that by hosting the event here, students from Saint mary’s will enjoy the talk and start going to Notre dames on Tuesdays,” getz said. 
“I see Notre dames as a great way to bring women together.” 
Tuesday’s event is an open discussion, but getz said she especially hopes to dis­cuss why men’s and wom­en’s sports follow different rules. 
“I hope women will rec­ognize the differences in men’s and women’s athlet­ics,” getz said. 
“Through society, women and men are given these dis­tinct norms, but in my opin­ion, not every man or woman fits these characteristics.” 
“People believe that be­cause men are bigger, faster and stronger, women should play by a separate set of rules,” getz said. “This is not necessarily the case.” 
She said she looks forward to hearing new opinions on the topic, since many stu­dents have played sports at some point in their lives. 
“We thought athletics would be an interesting top­ic of discussion, because of the community of the two schools,” getz said. 
“With Saint mary’s having all women athletic teams and Notre dame having co-ed athletics, it will be interesting to hear people’s perspectives on both sides.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

Associated Press proposes laws to protect journalists 
Associated Press 
hONg KONg — The presi­dent and cEO of The Associated Press called on monday for changes to international laws that would make it a war crime to kill journalists or take them hostage. 
gary Pruitt said a new frame­work is needed to protect jour­nalists as they cover conflicts in which they are increasingly seen as targets by extremist groups. 
“It used to be that when me­dia wore PrESS emblazoned on their vest, or PrESS or mEdIA was on their vehicle, it gave them a degree of protection” because reporters were seen as independent civilians telling the story of the conflict, Pruitt said. 
“But guess what: That label­ing now is more likely to make them a target,” he said in a speech at hong Kong’s Foreign correspondents’ club. 
Last year was a particu­larly deadly year for the AP 
— four of the news coopera­tive’s journalists were killed on assignment. globally, 61 journalists were killed in the line of duty in 2014, bringing to more than 1,000 the num­ber who have died since 1992, according to the committee to Protect Journalists. One of the most high profile killings was that of AP photographer Anja Niedringhaus, who was shot by a police officer while cover­ing elections in Afghanistan. AP reporter Kathy gannon was severely wounded in the same attack. Two other AP staff — videographer Simone camilli and translator Ali Shehda Abu Afash — were killed in gaza when an unexploded mis­sile went off. In addition, AP photographer Franklin reyes marrero died in a car accident while returning from an as­signment in cuba. 

Pruitt said existing interna­tional laws should be updated to protect journalists. he pro­posed creating a new protocol to the geneva conventions to make the killing of a journalist a specific war crime. he also sug­gested adapting articles of the International criminal court, which deals with war crimes, to specifically cover journalists. 
While acknowledging that these measures would not nec­essarily prevent journalists from getting killed, Pruitt said it would raise awareness of the idea that media workers, like doctors and nurses, should not be targeted during war. 
New information surfaces on Alps plane crash 
Associated Press 
duESSELdOrF, germany 
— how could someone once diagnosed with suicidal ten­dencies get a job as a com­mercial pilot, entrusted with the lives of hundreds of peo­ple? That’s the question being asked after officials confirmed monday that germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz re­ceived lengthy psychotherapy 
before  receiving  his  pilot’s  
license.  
All  150 people on  board  

were killed by what prosecu­tors believe was a deliberate decision by Lubitz to slam the Airbus A320 he was flying from Barcelona to duesseldorf into a mountain in the French Alps last Tuesday. 
Lufthansa, germanwings’ parent company, declined to say whether it knew of Lubitz’s mental health problems. But it said the young pilot had passed all required medical checks since starting work for its subsidiary two years ago. 
Prosecutors in duesseldorf, where Lubitz had an apart­ment, said the psychotherapy occurred over an extended pe­riod before he received his pi­lot’s license, and that medical records referred to “suicidal tendencies.” They provided no dates. 
Lubitz started pilot training in 2008, though it’s unclear when he finished the at least three-year-long course and re­ceived his license. Lufthansa said he was certified to fly their aircraft in 2013. 

The country’s aviation au­thority wouldn’t comment on Lubitz’s health, despite ac­knowledging last week that his record with the agency noted he needed “specific regular medical examination” beyond the annual checkup required of all pilots. 
“The german Federal Aviation Office isn’t direct­ly responsible for assessing the air-medical fitness of pi­lots,” said cornelia cramer, a spokeswoman for the agency, which is in charge of granting pilots’ licenses. 
cramer said the medical checks are conducted by spe­cially trained doctors, but declined to say whether their findings are passed on to the agency. 
The head of the german Aviation medical Practitioners Association, the organization representing doctors who de­termine if pilots are medical­ly fit to fly, said the standard medical evaluation would not have been able to determine if a pilot suffered from a serious mental illness. 
All pilots must undergo regular medical checks that include a cursory psychologi­cal evaluation, according to dr. hans-Werner Teichmueller, the agency’s head. But such tests rely on patients being honest with their doctors, and even a seriously mentally un­stable person would have been able to put a “mask” on for the investigation, he said. 
“you can’t see anything be­yond the face,” Teichmueller said. “We have developed a very refined system in Europe and most of us are in agree­ment that this system is op­timal. If we were to add more psychological tests or modify the way we test, then we can still not change a situation like this.” 
Lubitz continued to visit doctors until recently, receiv­ing notes that excused him from work — including for the day of the crash — but none re­ferred to suicidal tendencies or aggression toward others, said prosecutors’ spokesman ralf herrenbrueck. 
he didn’t say what medical help Lubitz was seeking at the time of the crash, but noted that there was no evidence of any physical illness. 
While Lubitz was physically fit — he was an avid runner who took part in half-mara­thons — his future employers had at least some indication there was a problem. 


ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 
InsIdE coLumn 

Let the games begin 
Marek Mazurek 
Sports Writer 

2016 is going to be a big year. As a sports writer, I am looking forward to the Summer Olympics, but as an American, I am looking forward to the presi­dential election. I am aware the election is more than a year away,  but with Ted cruz’s announce­ment, the campaign season has officially begun. 
cruz will soon be joined by Senators rand Paul and marco rubio in officially seeking the presiden­cy as both Paul and rubio are set to announce their bids in early April. 
This will be the first campaign for all three can­didates and so all three will inevitably have gaffs and skeletons in the closet waiting to be uncovered. All the three republican candidates set to run have major challenges ahead. 
Looking at their policies, cruz and Paul are both proud members of the Tea Party faction of the republican Party. cruz has focused mostly on wasteful government spending and is famous for reading “green Eggs and ham” in connection to government shutdown. Though also believing in a more limited government, Paul has focused more on civil liberties issues like the NSA overreach and is more known for his proposed isolationist foreign policy. These differences, however, are subtle and to many, cruz and Paul are not distinguishable. This fact will cause the two to split the Tea Party vote within the republican Party and ultimately, one will have to drop out fairly early if the Tea Party will have a candidate represented at the republican National convention. 
rubio, however, is an establishment republican and many in the republican leadership like his hispanic heritage and his connection to the swing state of Florida. rubio’s biggest challenge may in fact be his hispanic heritage. The hispanic vote has gone to the democrats in the last few election cy­cles, and rubio’s candidacy will appear, to some, as a shameless appeal to race. rubio needs to develop a platform that includes more than just immigra­tion reform. rubio is not known for much else at this stage in his career and it will be interesting to see whether his economic policies lean more to­wards those of Paul and cruz or towards the center. 
Fundraising will also be a challenge for rubio. The big donors of the party are more likely to give to better known contenders like Jeb Bush and chris christie, while Tea Party donors will flock to Paul or cruz, leaving rubio out in the cold. Even fellow middle-of-the-road republican hopeful, Scott Walker, has a fundraising infrastructure in place from his gubernatorial recall election. 
Another distinguishing feature for cruz, Paul and rubio is that they are all fairly young. cruz is 44, Paul is 52 and rubio is 43. For some or all of these three, winning the nomination in 2016 may not be the end goal. however, the election of 2020 will prove much more difficult with an incumbent president and this fact may have rushed cruz and rubio to run before they are fully ready. 
Though many other hopefuls, like Bush, christie, Walker and Trump — I couldn’t resist — have yet to announce, the republican picture is clearer than it was last week. The campaign is a challenge and few are up to it. Whether rubio, cruz or Paul are up to that challenge remains to be seen. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at       mmazurek@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The NcAA entitled 
Stephen Raab 
Let’s Talk Smart 
The end of march brings with it the NcAA basketball tournament. The Sweet Sixteen, the Elite Eight, the Final Four — it’s an American tradition like no other. Notre dame’s out, of course, but no matter who’s play­ing it’s always fun to relax with the guys and watch the rhythm of the game. (As a minnesotan, it kills me to say this, but … go Badgers!) 
In recent years, however, the playoffs have heralded another annual tradition — a surge in public opinion demanding that student athletes be paid. The argu­ment, so it goes, is that athletes are responsible for bringing substantial money value to their schools and to the NcAA and that they deserve compensation as such. 
I do feel there’s a legitimate discussion to be had on this issue, and I’m certainly in favor of a critical ex­amination of the NcAA’s operations. One of Fr. Ted’s finest achievements was his work for exactly that pur­pose as co-chairman of the Knight commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. That being said, I find it hard to get on board with this particular cause. I just can’t take seriously the rhetoric that paints student athletes as some kind of oppressed, marginalized group. 
consider the most prominent example of this grievance from last year’s NcAA basketball tourna­ment. National champion uconn guard and most Outstanding Player Shabazz Napier told reporters, “there are hungry nights that I go to bed and I’m starving.” First off, while I recognize the tendency towards hyperbole with off-the-cuff statements like this, it should be obvious that nobody playing division I basketball is suffering from critical malnutrition. If this is truly the case, you’d expect the coaches to be complaining even louder than the students; emaci­ated point guards don’t play good basketball. Second, at the time of the statement, uconn provided din­ing services open 12 hours a day, all-you-can-eat. It’s therefore reasonable to conjecture that any “under­feeding” is due largely to poor resource management on the part of the student. 
Further, consider Napier’s fate after graduation. he was drafted by the charlotte hornets and traded to the miami heat. For his first year with the heat, he was paid $1,239,000. This comes out to $140 per hour, assuming he worked 24 hours a day, even while sleeping. hopefully now he’ll be able to buy enough food to nourish himself adequately. he certainly won’t need any of it to pay off his student loans, at a time when the average student debtor leaves college $28,400 in the red. 
It also doesn’t help student athletes’ cases when their more high-profile representatives take such a cavalier attitude towards the “student” part. recall statements by Ohio State quarterback cardale Jones lamenting, “Why should we have to go to class if we came here to play FOOTBALL? We ain’t come to play SchOOL classes are POINTLESS.” It’s an open secret that many such students with contempt for their aca­demics enroll in “paper classes” that never meet and often require nothing more than a final paper at the end of the term. The students know they’re getting a worthless degree, which makes it shocking when they have the gall to sue their schools for failing to properly educate them, as happened at the university of North carolina. 
Of course, as christ himself said in the Book of matthew, “First take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your neighbor’s eye.” It would be hypocritical of me not to touch on Notre dame’s recent checkered student-ac­ademic record. Between assaults on law enforcement and “academic violations,” even the Irish are not im­mune to this problem. 
The lynchpin problem with these cases is that the students responsible have forgotten what college ath­letics is — an extracurricular activity. The reason why they’re called “student athletes” is because they’re supposed to be students first and athletes second. If they want to play professional sports, then they should join professional sports teams instead of trying to professionalize college athletics. 
I don’t want to paint all student athletes as corrupt or entitled — that would be both cruel and inaccurate. Nonetheless, I find it very hard to look at the afore­mentioned examples and still muster the ire to insist they be paid. I’d love to have a productive conversa­tion about the treatment of student athletes, but let’s not pretend we’re talking about Oliver Twist. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EdItorIAL cArtoon 


ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 
Exercise your democratic right 
Kitty Baker 
British  Invasion 

The Nigerian populace came out in droves to vote in their presidential election. men and women waited for hours to exercise their democratic rights, and it was one of Africa’s most peaceful elections, despite attempts by Boko haram and others to dis­turb the process. 
The British Parliament was dissolved on march 30, marking the start of the general election to be held on may 5. Ed miliband, the Labour Party leader, and david cameron, the incumbent Prime minister, are expected to begin their campaigns, with plenty of mudslinging from both sides. This should be a close election, as many question both parties’ policies on issues like the economy and immigration, and smaller parties are expected to do very well. 
Election season is one of the most fraught, fiery situations in any country. These events allow peo­ple to speak their minds about some of the biggest political and economic issues we are faced with today. The true importance of an election is that it allows democratic countries to give the people a voice. Voting is one of the most fundamental demo­cratic legal institutions and it is important that every single person exercise their right. 
As a British citizen who has never been able to vote in the u.S., the country I have lived in for 18 years, it infuriates me that many of my peers did not vote in the federal elections. Those who have the right to vote have a very important choice, a choice some of the people in the united States do not have. 
Sometimes, those who choose not to vote have good reasons. Those who abstain from voting in elections because they believe their voice is heard more through a blank ballot than a checked one have their reasons. And I can understand those who say that because they do not know enough about each candidate, they feel as if it would be ir­responsible to vote. But that’s not really an excuse. 
Find out about the candidates. The Internet is at your fingertips. Pick up a newspaper (from a vari­ety of sources, as every newspaper has its biases). read about the election. Take a stand. If there is an issue that really excites you, that you want to fight for, do it. 
my sister recently wrote a letter to her congress­woman about net neutrality, and I admire her for the fact that she made the effort to reach out to the people who are changing this country’s laws, the laws we will have to live under and abide by. 
I understand there are problems with the current system of voting. Absentee voting is a painful pro­cess. But that shouldn’t stop you from sending your ballot. And with the electoral college, it really does seem that your voice doesn’t matter. But it does. And it really matters a lot more than you think. I and many others in the united States of America don’t have the choice. Others cannot fill out what is a seemingly meaningless piece of paper. But you all can. 
Apathy is not a reason to avoid voting. Apathy is only detrimental. When next voting, think about the people who fought for your right to vote. The people who risked their lives and livelihoods so that everyone could go to a voting booth and make choices to determine their own lives, not to have them be determined by other people. Apathy did not create the country we live in today. We have to be passionate, even if it is passion about chang­ing what we view as an antiquated governmental system. 
It’s true that America does not have the worst voter turnout, at 54.9 percent (although it is much lower than that of most European countries). And it’s true that having the choice and choosing not to vote is a democratic right, and one that should never be taken away (I certainly don’t believe in a forced vote). But sheer laziness about submitting an absentee ballot or waking up on voting day and not really feeling like it is not an excuse. 
So the moral of the story: Vote. 
Kitty Baker is a Program of Liberal Studies and film, television and theatre major and eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls, who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A business student’s view of the humanities 
Eric Mazelis 
guest columnist 

On march 19, former yale professor William deresiewicz visited campus to discuss his book, “Excellent Sheep: The miseducation of the American Elite and the Way to a meaningful Life.” I read it in anticipation of the talk and discovered the articula­tion of many thoughts on my college experience I had held inside or only discussed with close friends. 
To be frank, I am one of deresiewicz’s “sheep.” Sheep are formed in an affluent school setting where APs, extracurriculars and college acceptances are the measures of success — an apt description of my Northern New Jersey hometown. Sheep choose vocational majors with the clearest path to a job, and see a double major as their next “gold star” — I am a Finance and Political Science double major. Sheep are conditioned to view getting a job as the primary end of college — I received a consulting job in chicago in the fall and have yielded to the pres­sure of “needing” a sophomore and junior summer internship in my field. 
It is therefore troubling when deresiewicz claims that, by neglecting the humanities, sheep never re­ally receive a college education at all. A sheep’s in­centive structure has been subconsciously perverted by misguided influences and a schooling system that promotes a skewed model of achievement. 
Being placed in deresiewicz’ “flock” has spurred me to reflect on my educational track. 
coming out of high school, I did not possess a strong attachment to any particular subject that jumped out as a possible major choice. Instead, I looked towards my uncle and friends’ fathers — suc­cessful men in finance — who reassured me that finance is a great path for someone with my grades and work ethic. 
After arriving at Notre dame, I was able to enroll in business classes during my freshman year. When the good grades in those classes began to roll in and I was not particularly enamored with any other subject from my FyS, I was locked into the business track. I’ll grow to find my passion, right? my deci­sion-making proceeded without a deep reflection on the broader questions: What does an education mean to me? What do I want to derive from these four years, intellectually? 
I am not writing to say I regret my decisions. While several business classes have indeed been a chore instead of a cerebral exercise, I am very excited to begin my first real job in July. In addition, my politi­cal science major has unlocked a genuine curiosity and interest in political theory. however, I feel that Notre dame can do a lot more to ensure that fresh­men are choosing a major based on genuine personal reflection, rather than being pushed forward by their pre-college conditioning. 
One suggestion, during this period of university core curriculum review, is to revamp the university Seminar and adopt a model similar to the one deresiewicz describes at Lawrence university in Wisconsin. This school mandates a yearlong “in­troduction to liberal learning” seminar for fresh­men. While PLS majors take several seminars like this, I believe it should be required for all freshmen 
— instead of allowing freshmen to retreat into a university Seminar that lies within a familiar subject or their intended major. This class would allow them to engage with foundational texts from multiple disciplines, perhaps lead them to a new subject of interest and begin to tackle the kinds of philosophi­cal questions about life and education that college should raise. 
Additionally, the career center and advisors can be much more proactive about educating freshmen on careers that differ from the traditional finance, accounting, consulting, law and medical paths. money is important (it has certainly been a key fac­tor in my decisions) and getting a job out of college seems to have increasingly moved to the forefront of the university experience for students in all majors. It is therefore vital for advisors to engage freshmen through additional programming or individual in­tellectual inquisition, to push them to thoroughly examine their future options and discern the type of work that they can make money in and mentally engage with. 
underclassmen should see the career center as a resource for developing exciting post-grad ideas and possibilities, rather than as a place that simply rein­forces what they think they want to do. 
Also, my belief that most incoming college stu­dents have no idea what they really want with their lives gives me pause about mendoza’s new enroll­ment policy. 
Students who apply to the university as intended business majors will now be notified, at acceptance, if they are “pre-approved” to enroll in mendoza after completion of their FyS. I feel that being anointed as one of the pre-approvals at the No. 1 undergraduate business school in the country removes any chance of actually exploring the other majors or colleges that Notre dame has to offer. 
deresiewicz writes that a college education is most valuable when it allows a student to deprogram his or her preconceived notions that form when growing up and replace them with autonomous thought and personal free choice. While Notre dame attempts to inculcate these values more effectively than most college institutions, it can definitely do more to avoid students feeling herded. 
I may be a sheep, but I hope that by becoming more aware of the influences that affect our judg­ment, all Notre dame students can arrive at the type of education that best fits them. 
Eric Mazelis is a senior finance and political science major living off campus.  He can be contacted at amazelis@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 

Allie Tollaksen 
Scene Editor 

Scroll through your Facebook newsfeed or Twitter timeline and you’re almost guaranteed to see a post from Buzzfeed. chances are you’ve clicked a link or two (or 200) yourself. you may feel that inevitable pang of shame procrastinating on the site, but don’t feel too guilty for falling into the Buzzfeed rabbit hole 
— it’s almost impossible not to. Buzzfeed expands like a universe. In fact, it’s one of the fastest growing media companies in the world. 
If the word “Buzzfeed” brings to mind a plethora of “mean girls” gIFs, baby animal pictures or that eye-roll inducing neologism “listicle” that’s meant to convey the vapidity and lack of focus millennials supposedly embody, perhaps you haven’t explored Buzzfeed in the last few years. The site has evolved from viral content generator to a multi-vertical media outlet that is, in many ways, fascinating. 
To look at what Buzzfeed has become, it’s im­portant to see where it started. Launched in 2006, Buzzfeed was created by Jonah Peretti as a way to ex­plore “virility” of online content. According to a story by david rowan for Wired, Peretti said the project began as an experiment to see what kinds of content were being passed along through social networks and email. 
Peretti, along with his co-founder John Johnson, clearly did the job well. While the original “Buzzfeed Labs” project began by developing ways to simply identify what goes viral on the web, the company 
By NATHAN KRIHA 
Scene Writer 

It can be hard to come across an indie pop band that consistently composes brilliant and inspiring music. I often realize my favorite songs are one-hit wonders from indie bands that are constantly mixing up their genre. my one wish was to find a band that would never fail to fulfill my need for amazing music, and in december 2014 I was blessed to stumble upon San Fermin — the one band that finally provided me with a complete musical experience. 
San Fermin’s Ellis Ludwig-Leone is both the pianist and composer for the band. While attending yale he had the opportunity to pursue his musical talents, and shortly after graduation he created San Fermin with other members, including lead vocalists Allen Tate and rae cassidy. San Fermin hails from Brooklyn and pro­duces a very unique style of music that comes across as joyous and confident. 
In September 2013, the band released their de­but self-titled album. hits such as “Sonsick” and “Torero” use an upbeat tempo combined with a large array of instruments in order to create an exuberant 
KERI O’MARA | The Observer 

began to expand by sharing links and eventually generating millions of clicks (and dollars) to the site. Buzzfeed grew by centralizing what web users love, and most importantly love to share —funny memes, videos of animals, clickable headlines, easily digest­ible lists — all through analytics and algorithms. 
As the company grew, so did its reputation. Buzzfeed has certainly seen its fair share of contro­versy. After Buzzfeed moved onto generating its own content, the site came under fire. The years 2013 and 2014 saw the company come under fire as it received several accusations of plagiarism and copyright infringement. Eventually, Buzzfeed deleted thou­sands of original posts and correct many articles in response to copyright and plagiarism accusations. Early this year, the company developed and released a set of editorial standards. 
These issues with Buzzfeed are important to note in themselves, but they also reveal a turning point in the history of the company. The deletion of posts and creation of editorial standards, however controver­sial, show a shift in Buzzfeed’s direction. you may still think of Buzzfeed as a place to find cat videos and fun facts during finals week, but the company has made a considerable shift towards publishing serious news, longform journalism and opinion pieces. Buzzfeed has gotten more serious — and has received some seriously valid criticism because of it — but is only growing bigger as a media company. 
And as a media outlet, the site has some noteworthy accomplishments. First, the company is making more effort to create diversity in the workplace than most. Shani O. hilton, the company’s executive editor, has 
environment that draws the listener into the beauty of the music. Other songs, such as “renaissance!” and “methuselah,” are slower, focusing on simplistic guitar and piano melodies. however, no matter what speed or style, the band has a very distinct sound: a seamless fusion of Sufjan Steven’s rich orchestral ar­rangements and Imagine dragon’s punchy hooks. San Fermin sticks to this sound, unlike other indie bands who are, to the dismay of many, constantly changing things around. 
“methuselah,” named after the longest-lived Biblical figure, is a hidden gem on this album. The song begins with a stunning acoustic guitar and piano arrange­ment. Allen Tate’s incredibly low and powerful voice soon fills the air, creating a soothing ambience. The lyrics illustrate the thoughts one might have after a break-up, as the chorus is comprised of the line, “Are you thinking of me now? methuselah.” Lines such as, “have you found a place that’s deeper than the cor­ners of your mind / To settle down?” provide an outlet for listeners to relax and ponder a deeper meaning. If you ever need to sit back and contemplate life, turn on “methuselah” and let your mind roam free. 
In preparation for their new album, “Jackrabbit,” San been outspoken about diversity in the workplace, and the company has released both diversity statistics as well as a statement about their goal of creative a more diverse work environment. The goal, according to hilton in an interview with Nieman Lab, is to reflect that diversity to create content for a diverse audience. The site already has verticals for LgBTQ content as well as a considerable amount of focus on race and gender issues. 
hilton, along with editor-in-chief Ben Smith, is also helping to step up Buzzfeed’s reportage. The site has hired many talented young journalists and editors to cover domestic and international news and politics that are decidedly not in the form of listicles. While the integrity of the site’s more serious sections are still being debated, the quality of traditional news pieces coming out of Buzzfeed are a far cry from the meme-filled articles detractors cite when dismissing the company. 
Of course, Buzzfeed still has a lot of change to undergo. Whether its explicit goals of creating viral content are at odds with serious journalism is an on­going question as the company expands, especially since the company announced its goal to create more multiplatform content away from Buzzfeed’s web-page. But those who dismiss the company as nothing but mindless droll will have to second-guess what Buzzfeed means for media as it only grows larger and does what it does best — gets people clicking. 
Contact Allie Tollaksen at atollaks@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fermin has released several promising singles. One large difference between these singles and the first al­bum is that lead female vocalist, rae cassidy, left the band in pursuit of her solo career and was replaced by charlene Kaye. This originally sent me into a panic, as her voice was a staple of the band and gave each song a special feel, but this panic soon subsided after hearing the singles “Jackrabbit,” “Parasites” and “Emily,” all of which sound like the San Fermin I know and love. 
“Emily,” their most recent release, is already one of my favorites. The song employs a dynamic approach, transitioning between a neat chorus comprised of Allen Tate’s booming voice and a verse built on the dual vocals of Allen Tate and charlene Kaye. In this way, “Emily” sounds like two separate songs laid on top of one another. 
It’s impossible to overemphasize the majestic qual­ity of San Fermin’s work. Their debut album could not have been more perfectly comprised, and after listen­ing to their first three singles it is clear that the upcom­ing album is going to be just as good, if not better, than their previous work. 
Contact Nathan Kriha at at nkriha@nd.edu 


By BRIDGET DEDELOW 
Scene Writer 

A playlist for rolling your windows down (or up — it’s windy out there) and heading out of the Bend back to the place where it all began. 
“Let’s Go” - matt and Kim 

When that last class is over and you need to just get out, this bouncy, piano-fueled track just feels you. Perfect for starting off a drive. 
“send me on my Way” - rusted root 
A classic driving song, this track will be stuck in your head by the time you need to stop for gas. 
“Lost In my mind” - the head and the heart 
For everyone who has a serious case of wanderlust. Plus, the line “you’re already home when you feel love” reminds you that home can be anywhere. 
“Lampshades on Fire” - modest mouse 
The new, methodical single by modest mouse will help you power through those minutes — or hours — where all you see is corn and more corn. Thanks, Indiana. 
“sugar” (remix) - maroon 5 and nicki minaj 
For the people who are craving a party with their friends from back home, this remix will get you there. 
“Georgia” - Vance Joy 

We all know “riptide” is overplayed, but this lesser known song has Vance Joy’s mellow sound and is still upbeat. 
“nothing Without Love” - nate ruess 
The lead singer of fun. is back with this track that reminds you that life would be incomplete without the people that love you. hug your dog, he needs it. 
“seventy times seven” - Brand new 
For all you former pop-punk kids out there that shamelessly put “I’ve seen more spine in jelly­fish / I’ve seen more guts in thirteen-year-old kids” as your AIm away message, throw back and headbang like you know you can. 
“one Love / People Get ready” - Bob marley 
For when you need to feel the summer sun on your face but it’s 39 and hailing. 
“In the Aeroplane over the sea” - neutral milk hotel 
A floaty feeling song for those who like to fly … or just hate road trips. 
“chicago” - sufjan stevens 

When you need a reminder of one of the greatest cities in the u.S., or just something calm to get you through. 
“miles Away” (Acoustic Edit) - years Around the sun 
A love song that also applies to home and the college experience. “And our minds were meant to sail / Take a rest from my thoughts / Take a break from this world / And we’ll feel miles away from the places that we used to be.” 
“stars” - the suits 

This poppy track will keep you awake at the wheel while inspired about the time ahea. Win-win. 
Contact Bridget Dedelow at bdedel 01@saintmarys.edu 
By CAELIN MILTKO 
Scene Writer 

If movies like “Frozen,” “Big hero 6” and “despicable me” have proven a formula exists that can appeal to both adults and children, the recent dreamworks film “home” is a reminder that not all chil­dren’s films can hit that perfect balance. 
On the surface, it seems like it probably should work. The two main characters are voiced by Jim Parsons (Sheldon from “The Big Bang Theory”) and rihanna, and the storyline seems somewhat compelling, if a little simplistic — I mean, what’s not to like about a couple alien invasions?. 
But the movie never reaches beyond the level of ‘kind of cute,’ and it’s certainly not a movie that parents will willingly watch over and over. At this point, “Frozen” may be overplayed, but it could be watched at least three or four times before massive annoyance set in. “home” does not have this kind of staying power, if only because it’s only mildly amusing at best. 
Part of the problem is that the plot seems to be overshadowed by the real life personas of the voices behind the characters. As soon as the movie starts, it’s almost hard to separate the voice of Jim Parsons from his iconic character Sheldon on “The Big Bang Theory,” and it’s somewhat distracting. This, however, is not really anyone’s fault and pales in comparison to the issues with rihanna’s role in the movie. 
Before seeing the film, I was only vaguely aware that rihanna had a role. To be fair, I only became aware of the film when visiting my under-10-year-old cousins in chicago for the weekend and never would have seen the film without their influence. Still, the impor­tance of rihanna’s role in “home” was not clear to me until I’d seen it. 
rihanna performs three out of the eight songs on the soundtrack, and the songs she doesn’t perform fade into the background. Even worse, the song they pick to repeat in nearly every scene (“dancing in the dark”) is so repetitive in and of itself that by the time the movie has repeated for the third time, you wonder if there’s even another song in the entire film. 
Now, from hits like “Let It go” and “happy,” we know that theme songs from animated pictures can make huge breakthroughs in pop culture. We also know that they have a tendency to be overplayed to the point that almost no one wants to listen to them anymore. But “dancing in the dark” is not nearly so good as either of the above examples, and if dreamworks wanted a massive hit on their hands, they definitely chose the wrong song. After seeing “home,” I’m not sure I feel a desire to ever hear that song again. 
The repetition of a number of rihanna songs makes the movie feel like a half-hearted attempt to revive rihanna’s career in a younger generation, but it fails to really make an impression. While this may pass over the heads of the intended demographic, anyone over the age of 10 seeing the film will easily discern the huge plot holes that are ignored in favor of a “catchy” dance tune. 
despite the increasing number of enjoyable animated films out there, “home” is not among them. At times, it was mildly cute and the writing for the character of “Oh” was consistently funny. But it wasn’t enough to make it truly enjoyable for anyone beyond its stated demographic. 
Contact Caelin Miltko at cmoriari@nd.edu 


sPorts AuthorIty 

NHL teams tank for ‘McEichel’ 
Michael Ivey 
Sports Writer 
during this time of the year, hockey fans are usually swept up in the race toward the Stanley cup Playoffs. They check scores on a daily basis to see if their favor­ite team will get in and, if they do get in, who will they play. But this year presents a unique situation. While all the playoff talk is going on, another type of contest is receiving attention — the contest of who can finish with the worst record in the NhL standings. The winner of this contest will win a very valuable prize, one that could change the course and out­look of their team for years to come. 
The 2015 NhL Entry draft will take place June 26 and 27, 2015 in Sunrise, Florida, and this year’s class is considered to be one of the best in recent memory. The two players that headline this year’s draft class are connor mcdavid, who plays for the Erie Otters of the Ontario hockey League (OhL), and Jack Eichel, who is a Boston university fresh­man. Both are considered to be generational talents who can immediately play with and contribute to an NhL team. 
mcdavid is an 18-year old from richmond hill, Ontario. he is one of the most hyped hockey prospects of all time, with many comparing his style of play to those of Wayne gretzky and Sidney crosby. he is a fast, two-way center who can score goals and create scoring oppor­tunities from almost out of nowhere. his highlight-reel goals and statistics he’s put up this season would have to be seen to believe. This season, in 47 games played with the Erie Otters, he has scored 44 goals and recorded 76 assists. In 166 career regu­lar season games with the Otters, he has registered a grand total of 285 points and is widely considered to be the consensus first overall pick in the upcoming draft. however, he’s not the only franchise-changing player in this draft. 
Eichel is an 18-year old from North chelmsford, massachusetts. many hockey analysts praise him as one of the best American hockey prospects ever, comparing his style of play to that of Patrick Kane. In his freshman season at Boston university, Eichel has scored 24 goals and 43 assists for a total of 67 points in only 37 games played. he leads the nation in points and is considered to be the front-runner for the hobey Baker Award — hockey’s version of the heisman Trophy — given annually to the best college hockey player in the country. he is widely considered to be the consensus second overall pick in the upcoming draft and many analysts say he would be the first overall se­lection this year if it weren’t for mcdavid. 

With players like these available, the teams that cur­rently sit at the bottom of the overall standing are fighting each other to finish with the worst record as the team that does is guaranteed either the first or second pick. The two teams that currently sit at the bottom of the overall NhL standings are the Buffalo Sabres, who have 48 points, and the Arizona coyotes, who have 54. Perhaps the fans of these two teams are the ones most engaged in the race for the first pick; the two teams played each other Thursday in Buffalo, New york, and when the coyotes scored the overtime winner, Sabres fans cheered the goal. 
The act of a sports team trying to lose in order to gain a better draft position is gen­erally referred to as “tank­ing,” and the question has been posed whether or not doing so is alright. I know it might sound crazy, but I be­lieve that a team should feel free to tank if they think that is what’s best for them in the long run, though they should be careful; the NhL draft Lottery takes place April 14, where teams like the Sabres and coyotes will learn if their efforts paid off or if they were all for naught. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

mLB 

Zunino’s bat, Walker’s arm lead Mariners 
Associated Press 
PEOrIA, Ariz. — mike Zunino homered and dou­bled, Taijuan Walker pitched seven impressive innings and the Seattle mariners beat the Los Angeles Angels 5-3 monday. 
robinson cano added his first spring homer for the mariners and is hitting .364 in exhibition play. 
The Angels and mariners fielded lineups consisting mainly of the players who are likely to start on opening day next monday when Los Angeles visits Seattle. 
Zunino’s seven home runs and 13 rBIs lead Seattle this spring. The catcher is batting .354. 

Zunino got a playful, palms-down “easy does it” sign from ace Felix hernandez in the clubhouse after driving in three runs. 
“I feel like the approach is much different,” Zunino said. “Last year I was just up there swinging and hoping to get something to hit. This year there’s more of a men­tal approach to it. It’s been a good learning experience I’ve had this spring.” 
Walker’s scoreless streak ended at 19 innings when matt Joyce homered in the second. That was the only run off Walker, who retired his final 17 batters. 
Walker gave up three hits, walked none and struck out five. 
“I didn’t try to do too much,” Walker said. “I feel really good with all my pitches.’” 
mariners outfielder Seth Smith and the opening-day pitchers were the lone miss­ing players from who’s ex­pected to be on the field next week. 
“At some point you’ve got to get these guys out there and they’ve got to play deep into games,” Angels manager mike Scioscia said. “We want to get our guys together for sure and see how this lineup will work.” 
The Angels scored twice in the ninth off mariners lefty charlie Furbush, who will be in the Seattle bullpen this season. 
ncAA 

conn. governor bars state-funded travel to Indiana 
Associated Press 

hArTFOrd, conn. — connecticut gov. dannel P. malloy signed an executive order on monday barring state spend­ing on travel to Indiana and any other state enacting legislation that protects religious freedoms but ultimately discriminates against gays and others groups. 
malloy, the incoming chairman of the democratic governors Association, called Indiana’s new religious objec­tions law “disturbing, disgrace­ful and outright discriminatory.” 
“We cannot sit idly by and do nothing while laws are enacted that will turn back the clock,” malloy said, adding how he “won’t allow any of our citizens in connecticut to face discrimi­nation in other states, at least without a fight.” 
The Indiana measure prohib­its state laws that “substantially burden” a person’s ability to follow his or her religious be­liefs. The definition of “person” includes religious institutions, businesses and associations. The proposal has prompted businesses and organizations across the country to cancel fu­ture travel plans to Indiana and table expansion plans. 
republican gov. mike Pence signed the measure last week and defended it during a tele­vision appearance on Sunday. Indiana’s republican legislative leaders said monday they are working on adding language to make it clear it doesn’t discrimi­nate against gays and lesbians. 

“I don’t think we’ve ever seen a reaction like this to the laws passed historically in the other states or when the federal gov­ernment did it,” said Indiana Senate President Pro Tem david Long. “clearly people are react­ing differently to this law. We didn’t see that coming.” 
malloy said he’d prefer the leg­islation be repealed. Furor over the law stems in part from the fact Indiana’s civil rights laws don’t ban discrimination based on sexual orientation. 
malloy’s one-page order directs all state agencies, de­partments, boards and com­missions, uconn and the Board of regents to immediately re­view all requests for state-fund­ed or state-sponsored travel to states that “create the grounds for such discrimination.” Such travel would be barred unless it’s necessary to enforce state law, meet contractual obliga­tions or protect public health. 
malloy’s order could affect connecticut’s collegiate sports teams. 
Next year, the NcAA Final Four women’s basketball tournament will be held in Indianapolis. malloy said he hopes the NcAA moves the tournament. uconn has been a perennial power in women’s basketball. 
“I think that would be a wise choice for them to do, if that’s possible,” he said. “We have gay men and women who play NcAA sports. And to hold a tournament in a state that has passed, and really quite frankly has flaunted laws that would lead to discrimination against those athletes, is not a wise place to have a tournament.” 
uconn Athletic director Warde manuel told The Associated Press he hopes a boycott won’t be necessary. 
“I would hope that the NcAA and the state of Indiana would rectify this so that a group of people don’t have the potential to be discriminated against and that the Final Four can remain there,” he said. “If it doesn’t change, then I would encourage the NcAA to look to move the venue so that we wouldn’t get into a situation where any insti­tution would have to consider that kind of choice.” 
manuel said a decision will be made tomorrow on whether uconn men’s coach Kevin Ollie will attend this week’s coach’s convention in Indianapolis, which is also hosting this year’s men’s Final Four this weekend. 
Socially conservative groups accused malloy of not under­standing that connecticut also has a freedom of religion stat­ute, similar to what was enacted in Indiana. But malloy stressed that connecticut law does not allow religion to be a basis for discrimination. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


smc GoLF | WuSTL SPrINg INVITATIONAL 
Saint Mary’s struggles in tough conditions 
By DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports Writer 
Saint mary’s hit the links over the weekend in the WuSTL Spring Invitational at the gateway National golf Links in madison, Illinois, finishing 13th. 
The tournament featured nine teams ranked nation­ally in the top 25, includ­ing host and No. 3-ranked Washington university. The Belles, who posted a final score of 731, finished just two spots above the bottom team, a result Belles head coach Kim moore attributes to the nature of the spring season. 
“The spring season is al­ways a bit of a struggle,” moore said. “So the feel and technique needed to execute short game shots are usually off during the spring.” 
The Belles still struggle to find time to practice outdoors — they practiced outdoors just twice in the two weeks before the invitational 
— making it more difficult to work on the team’s play. 
The Belles also had an­other hurdle to overcome in Illinois, as the weather made it difficult to post good scores. moore said while the weather on Saturday was playable, poor conditions on Sunday negatively impacted the team’s performance. 
“[Saturday] it was cold, but not very windy so the con­ditions weren’t that bad,” moore said. “however, we did not execute the way we should have so our scores struggled despite the good playing conditions.” 
Sunday featured a tag-team combination of cold and wind – a golfer’s nightmare 
– and the Belles accordingly needed five more strokes to get through the round on the second day. 

Saint mary’s was led by first year Kaitlyn cartone, who shot a two-day, 33-over 175 to finish tied for 51st amongst individuals. While cartone had the low score Saturday, junior Katie Zielinski had the team’s best mark Sunday, shooting a 15-over 86 to cap her 56th-place finish. 
Zielinski’s 86 followed a first-day 96, and moore said she wanted to see more con­sistent performances from her team going forward. 
“hopefully over the next week or so we will have bet­ter practice conditions and we can work on that consis­tency,” moore said. 
The Belles see action next April 10-11 when they tee off in the Trine Spring classic in Angola, Indiana. 
Contact Daisy Costello at mcostel4@nd.edu 
smc soFtBALL | Smc 6, NOrTh cENTrAL 4; Nc 7, Smc 4 
Burke’s complete game leads Smc 
Observer Sports Staff 
Saint mary’s split a doublehead­er with previously-unbeaten, No. 11 North central on Saturday, win­ning the opener 6-4 before falling 7-4 in the second game. 
Belles junior Sarah Burke pitched a complete game in the win, stranding 13 cardinals run­ners en route to the victory. 
North central (11-1) struck first in the early game, turning a lead-off single into a run in the bot­tom of the first. In the second, the cardinals loaded the bases with just one out but Burke pitched out of it, getting out of the situation without surrendering a run. 
Saint mary’s (9-5) then leveled the score in the top of the third when first-year center fielder cassie young drove in junior left fielder Sarah callis on an rBI single. 
After a scoreless fourth, the Belles broke the game open in the top of the fifth with a four-run inning. 
Burke’s ability to work out of jams played a large role in the upset win for Saint mary’s as the cardinals left runners on base in every inning. 
North central tallied twice more — once in the sixth and once in the seventh — but it was not enough to come back and avoid its first loss of the season. 
The second game went the other way, as North central rebounded with a three-run victory. 
After the Belles scored twice in the top of the first, the cardinals went on the offensive, scoring all seven of their runs in the first four innings to chase Belles first-year right-hander morgan raymer from the game after just 3 and a third innings. While raymer did not walk a batter, she gave up eight hits and hit two batters. First year Jessica Alberts entered in relief, shutting down the cardinals in the fifth and sixth after seeing an in­herited runner score in the fourth. 
Alberts’s strong performance in relief gave the Belles a chance to catch up, though, and they rallied in the seventh to make it a game again. First-year second baseman Kelsey richards singled to start the inning before duncan knocked her in to cut the North central lead to 7-3. After a pitching change, callis reached on an error to score duncan. 
The Belles then loaded the bases with one outs but failed to push any more runs across as Busfield grounded into a 5-2-3 double play to end the game. 
Saint mary’s returns to action Tuesday at Adrian, with first pitch slated for 3:30 p.m. in the Belles’ conference opener. The Bulldogs (10-8, 0-2 mIAA) dropped a 3-0 de­cision to Trine on monday. 
The Belles will then return home for their home opener Wednesday when they host defiance. 

smc LAcrossE | Smc 17, LOrAS 5 
Transition play keys  one-sided Belles win 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
Saint mary’s bounced back from its weekend loss to John carroll in a big way monday, riding solid midfield transi­tion play en route to a 17-5 drubbing of visiting Loras. 
The Belles (4-4) finished their early non-conference schedule on a high note, us­ing a combination of fast-paced, pinpoint offense and suffocating midfield defense en route to their victory over the duhawks (2-6). 
Saint mary’s established an early 2-0 lead off of unas­sisted goals by sophomore attack Emilie Vanneste and junior attack maria roberts before surrendering the first of Loras’s four goals. After that, though, the Belles took over, scoring six straight by utilizing an aggressive of­fense that forced possession deep into the offensive zone and punished poor defensive positioning with pinpoint passing from behind the net. 
In a growing trend in Saint mary’s victories, the Belles significantly outshot their opponent; monday’s game saw the Belles outshoot the duhawks by as 32-10 margin, throwing 24 of those shots on net; Loras freshman goal­keeper Ashley mcgee made seven saves. 
Belles head coach Amy Long praised her team’s ef­fort after the match, citing widespread offensive ef­ficiency as a recipe for the team’s success. 
“Overall, we worked really hard today,” Long said. “[We had] lots of good offensive movement and benefitted from multiple people scor­ing. We had lots of good as­sists on goals today – not just one on ones.” 
The Belles’ offense start­ed from the draw, where Vanneste dominated in the second half, according to Long. 
“[Vanneste] had that pole draw over and over again,” she said. “Those draws, es­pecially in the second half 
— winning draw after draw on every possession got us those goals.” 
Indeed, the Saint mary’s offense proved difficult to stop on successive posses­sions. The Belles scored four or more consecutive goals three times during the afternoon. 
Following a difficult 20-9 loss Saturday, Long said it was good to get some mo­mentum back heading into mIAA play. 
“A lot of confidence [was] gained today,” Long said. “We played a quick team on Saturday, so get­ting this confidence back will be huge moving into Wednesday.” 

Wednesday marks the opening of conference play for the Belles, who will host hope in the only regular-season matchup scheduled between the two programs this season. In prepara­tion for Wednesday’s game, Long cited the importance of transition fundamentals. 
“[We have to] continue working on our ground balls,” Long said. “I think we did well today but we can do better, especially in the transition.” 
Turnover margin heavily favored the Belles against Loras — the visiting team committed 28 total turn­overs to the Belles’ 19. It fol­lowed a performance where Saint mary’s forced more turnovers (25) than it com­mitted (23) in a loss against John carroll. heading into the matchup with hope (1­4), Long stressed the impor­tance of taking advantage of opponents’ teammates. 
“We have to make those turnovers count,” she said. “If we knock down the ball, we want to be able to pick it up and finish the play.” 
The Belles will begin their conference slate Wednesday when they host hope at 5 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 
First-year right fielder makenzie duncan led off the inning with a single up the middle before callis reached on an error, allowing duncan to advance to third. After callis stole second, first-year short­stop Jamie young singled past the shortstop to get the Belles on the board in the frame. 
cassie young singled home an­other run to make it 3-1 before junior designated player Jillian Busfield’s 2-rBI single up the mid­dle capped the inning, leaving the Belles nine outs away from hand­ing North central its first loss of the season. 
North central scored a run in the bottom of the fifth but the Belles answered in the top of the sixth when first-year catcher Kayla raymer drove in the Belles’ final run of the day on a fielders’ choice. 



ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 

roWInG | BIg TEN/Acc dOuBLE duEL rEgATTA mEn’s tEnnIs | Nd 4, mIAmI 3; Nd 4, FLOrIdA STATE 3 
Notre Dame goes 6-6, beats No. 1 Ohio State 
By  BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
No. 14 Notre dame posted six victories in 12 races, in­cluding wins against No. 1 Ohio State, at the Big Ten/ Acc double duel regatta on Saturday in columbus, Ohio. 
The morning session served as a showcase for the compet­ing programs’ novice eight boats. The first race of the morning saw Notre dame’s younger members get the team off to a strong start as the Irish second novice eight posted a winning time of 6:52.73, finishing seven sec­onds ahead of second-place Ohio State. 
Notre dame’s first nov­ice eight got off to a rockier start, though, with the Irish boat coming in fourth place. michigan State’s boat claimed top honors in the second race of the day with a time of 6:37.07. The Irish finished their heat 21 seconds later, posting a time of 7:05.69. 
The first action in the var­sity fours came about an hour into the regatta. Notre dame’s second varsity four finished just three seconds behind Ohio State, posting a time of 7:16.62 to the Buckeye’s own finish time of 7:12.90. Notre dame’s first varsity four lagged further behind the pace set by the Buckeyes in the 11:10 heat, finishing 20 seconds behind first place with a time of 7:34.29. 
It was not until the after­noon portion of the regatta that the Irish claimed the bulk of the day’s momen­tum. Notre dame started the second portion of the event with a first-place finish in the second novice eight, and proceeded to win four of the remaining five races on the afternoon. Save for a single event win by michigan State in the first novice eight race, the Irish won every afternoon event outright, with second-place finishers never clocking closer than eight seconds be­hind the Irish. 
The weather conditions in columbus were less than ideal for the competition, with the 33 degree high fall­ing well below the average for this time of year. Still, ju­nior Joanna mulvey said that the harsh weather has been a trend over the past few weeks and did not deter the team during their training for the columbus races. 

“Being about to row out­side in any weather condi­tions is preferable for us after being inside on the rowing machines for about four months,” mulvey said. “Luckily, [the Oak ridge cardinal Invitational two weeks earlier in Oak ridge, Tennessee,] wasn’t very warm, so coming back from spring break to 50 degree weather wasn’t a very hard transition. It isn’t unusual for us to come back from break and go right back into the erg room for a week or two, so we are especially happy about the lack of ice or flooding on the St. Joseph river.” 
No. 18 Louisville also com­peted at the event, though the cardinals failed to win an event. 
The Irish will take the next two weeks to continue train­ing on the water as the weath­er improves, save for a short break for the Easter holiday. The team races next at the Lake Natoma invitational in Folsom, california, the week­end of April 11. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu 
smc tEnnIs | Smc 8, OLIVET 1 
Belles quiet struggling Olivet in league clash 
By  DAISY COSTELLO 
Sports Writer 
Saint mary’s continued mIAA conference action this weekend against Olivet in Battle creek, mI. The Belles (7-7, 2-1 mIAA) defeated the comets (2-13, 0-4 mIAA) in assertive fashion by a final score of 8-1. coming off a 9-0 clobbering by Indiana Wesleyan, the Belles were able to turn it around and find a way to beat a strug­gling comets squad. 
The Belles were victori­ous in all of their doubles matchups this weekend, which is something Belles head coach dale campbell has been striving for all season. 
“I think we fought hard to get those wins and it was a very nice effort in doubles,” campbell said. 
Strong  at  doubles  were  
senior  captain  Kayle  
Sexton  and  sophomore  

Sam Setterblad, who won their match 9-8 after fight­ing through a 7-1 tiebreak match. campbell did not have to coach the two through their match, rather, provided encouragement and the pair was able to find a way to win. 
“Kayle and Sam came back in their match and just used that momentum going into the tiebreaker,” campbell said, “they believed they could win, and they did.” 
Olivet was able to notch its only victory against the Belles at No. 1 singles where comets freshman maddy drikakis defeated Sexton 6-4, 6-2. Aside from the Sexton loss, the Belles were able to win out the singles matches against the comets. 
Notably, the Belles fresh­men saw significant action against the comets. Bailey Oppman notched a victo­ry at No. 5 singles against comets junior Lucy mcNally by a dominant score of 6-1, 6-1. Likewise, at No. 6 sin­gles freshman Kelsey Kopf topped Olivet senior devan Thomas, 6-0, 6-1. 
“I see a great future with these first year players,” campbell said, “They will continue to impact [both] singles and doubles and have the ability to play at a high level.” 

campbell also noted that all the freshmen all played with great poise and com­position and have devel­oped an elite drive to win matches. 
Senior captains Jackie Kjolhede and Shannon Elliot and junior margaret Faller also earned singles victories over Olivet. 
Freshman maddie minuado was worked in with junior margaret Faller at No. 2 doubles, where the two were able to bring home an 8-3 victory over Olivet fresh­man tag-team haley Powers and BreAnne rudlaff. In ad­dition, Kjolhede and Elliot won a match 8-5 in the No. 3 doubles slot. 
The Belles continue mIAA action April 8 at home against Trine. matches are slated to begin at 4 p.m. 
Contact Daisy Costello at  mcostel4@nd.edu 
Irish sweep pair of Acc foes 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre dame came through with a hard-earned Sunshine State sweep over the weekend, downing Acc foes miami and Florida State in a pair of 4-3 victories. 
The Irish (12-7, 4-3 Acc) jumped out to an early lead against the young hurricanes (7-10, 1-5) by picking up doubles victories from the first- and third-po­sition teams. The nationally ninth-ranked duo of junior Alex Lawson and senior Billy Pecor cruised to an 8-2 win over miami freshmen Nile clark and Piotr Lomacki before senior dougie Barnard and junior Quentin monaghan slipped past the miami pair of sophomore Bernard Tefel and freshman christian Langmo, 8-6. 
monaghan was the first off the court for Notre dame in the singles portion of the event, besting miami’s Lomacki in straight sets at the top of the singles lineup. A pair of hurricane wins locked the match at two, however, before Notre dame junior Kenneth Sabacinski defeated clark 7-5, 7-5 (7-2) to put the Irish a point away from victory. 
Lawson fell in three sets, so the match came down to the third position battle be­tween Notre dame sopho­more Josh hagar and miami senior Wilfredo gonzalez. hagar took the first set, 6-3, and then followed with a 6-4 win in the second set to de­liver the win for the Irish. 
On Sunday in Tallahassee, Florida, the Irish fell behind the Seminoles (16-6, 4-3) early after losing the doubles point. The Notre dame pair of Lawson and Pecor was upset by Florida State red-shirt junior Benjamin Lock and junior marco Nunez at the first-position doubles spot, 8-4. The Seminoles then sealed the point with a victory at the third doubles spot by freshmen broth­ers Terrance and Terrell Whitehurst’s 8-4 win over Barnard and monaghan. 
monaghan responded to tie the match right back up at the top of the singles lineup, however, breezing by Lock in straight sets, 6-1, 6-0. Florida State junior michael rinaldi defeated Irish sophomore Eddy covalschi in straight sets to push the Seminoles back in front. 
All four remaining singles matches went to a third set, but three consecutive wins for Notre dame sealed the match. 
hagar started the Irish run with a 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 win over Nunez at the second singles position, while he was followed off the court by Sabacinski’s 5-7, 6-4, 6-1 victory over Terrance Whitehurst. Lawson’s 6-2, 1-6, 7-6 (7-4) tiebreaker win at the five spot clinched Notre dame’s fourth point on the afternoon to complete the team’s weekend sweep. 
Notre dame’s road experi­ence continues next week­end when the Irish travel to Tobacco road for show­downs with duke on Friday and North carolina on Sunday. The action Friday is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. at Ambler Tennis Stadium in durham, North carolina, and continues Sunday at 12 
p.m. at cone-Kenfield Tennis center in chapel hill, North carolina. 




nd WomEn’s GoLF | LSu TIgEr gOLF cLASSIc 
Nd takes eighth in Louisiana  
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre dame traveled south this weekend to compete in the LSu Tiger golf classic in Baton rouge, Louisiana, fin­ishing eighth in a 16-team, high-powered tournament. 
The field included No. 6 LSu, No. 10 Wake Forest and No. 11 mississippi State, and the Irish finished the week­end with a 52-over-par 914, 35 shots behind the host and tournament winner, LSu. 
despite the strong field, Notre dame head coach Susan holt said she was not happy with the eighth place finish. 
“I’m not at all satisfied,” holt said. “We should have finished no worse than fifth in the field based on the rank­ings. We felt some of those teams ranked ahead of us could have been beaten. We did not play well. One good round out of three isn’t going to get it done.” 
The weekend was one of peaks and valleys as the Irish started the tournament with a 24-over 312 to finish the first day in seventh place, but then came back on the second day to move into fifth place with a four-over 288. holt said the team adjusted to the condi­tions on the second day and that led to the improvement. 
“We had a lot of unforced errors and sloppy play,” holt said. “The wind was very strong the first day. The golf course played totally differ­ent [Thursday] in the practice round. We just didn’t adjust to it. [Saturday] conditions were much better and we were able to manage things better and play better.” 
But a rough third-round, 22-over score of 310 saw Notre dame drop down to eighth place. holt said the poor per­formance on the third day was due to a mix of bad weather and poor putting. 

“It got windy again today,” holt said. “We did not man­age conditions well. A lot of it came down to putting. These greens are pretty slick, pretty fast and we didn’t putt very well. hopefully looking for­ward we’ll be able to have a bit more consistency and play more to our capability.” 
Senior captain Ashley Armstrong led the Irish on the weekend, tallying a nine-over 225 over the three rounds. 
despite the eighth-place finish, holt said the team can learn from playing against some of the best teams in the country. 
“Every time you go out, you hope to get something out of it,” holt said. “I think it’s good in that it shows our players where we’re at and what we need to continue to work on and improve upon. hopefully as we move through the rest of the season and into the post­season, we’ll be doing those things better and execute better.” 
holt said for the team to im­prove, each golfer must work on her game individually. 
“golf is an individual game,” holt said. “I hope the weather’s decent at home so we can maybe get outside on Tuesday and get some prac­tice in. They all have their stats from the weekend and know what they need to work on, and hopefully we’ll be able to get that done.” 
Notre dame will compete in the Bryan National collegiate next weekend in greensboro, North carolina. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

trAcK & FIELd | TExAS rELAyS; BOBcAT INVITATIONAL 
Barber shines as Irish kick off outdoor season 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 

As the South Bend weath­er starts to slowly get warm­er, Notre dame earned mixed results in the Texas sun at the Texas relays and the Bobcat Invitational in its first outdoor meet of the season. 
“There were some very good performances, eye­opening performances, and then there were a few of the athletes who didn’t com­pete anywhere near the lev­el I expected them to,” Irish head coach Alan Turner said. “going to events like the Texas relays, we’re mea­suring ourselves against the best in the country. We use events like these as a mea­suring stick and clearly, we need to perform better and I know we can.” 
The weekend’s headline came courtesy of senior Jade Barber, who broke the school record in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 12.81 seconds; the previous school record was 
12.93 seconds. Turner said Barber came back nicely from barely missing first-team All-American hon­ors at the NcAA indoor championships. 
“Several of the young la­dies who were first-team All-Americans who [Barber] ran against two weeks ago were also here at the meet,” Turner said. “She actually beat all of them except for one. For Jade, it was really just refining her technique. She’s definitely where she needs to be now and she’s going to be among the top three favorites to win the title this outdoor season.” 
Barber was also part of one of the six relay teams for the Irish that competed this weekend. The women’s 100-meter relay team placed eight, the 200-meter team took home fourth and the 400-meter team finished seventh; however, Turner said the performance of the women’s relay teams left room for improvement. 
“The 4x800-meter relay had a lot of young people in there,” Turner said. “They didn’t perform as well as I thought they would. We got beat pretty bad. We’re going to have to use our running experience at Stanford next season. my 4x100-meter re­lay for the women’s — they weren’t as fast as I wanted them to be in the [prelimi­naries] or the finals, but most of the teams in front of us are going to be top eight teams in the country. If we can cut some seconds off our time, get down to the low [44-second range], we can compete at the NcAA championships.” 
meanwhile, the men’s 200-meter and 400-meter teams finished fourth and eighth places, respectively. Turner said the men’s relay teams started well but lost steam on the final day. 
“In the 4x400-meters, the guys ran very well in the [preliminaries],” Turner said. “They just seemed to be very tired [Saturday] in the finals. Also, in between the second leg and the third leg, there was some bump­ing between the teams and we got the worse end of that. I’m expecting them to bounce back.” 
As the outdoor season continues, Turner said he expects the team to run well in the distance events at the Stanford Invitational next week. 
“The guy distance run­ners have been bagned up, they’re healthy now,” Turner said. “This first week’s going to be a little bit tough, from the mile on up, there’s going to be close to 100 competitors in each event. I’m looking for [junior] michael clevenger, [freshman] Billy dolan and [sophomore] Jacob dumford to do very well.” 
The Irish will travel to Palo Alto, california, to compete in the Stanford Invitational next weekend. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 




DAVID SCHMITZ | The Observer 

Senior Jade Barber competes Feb. 6 at the Meyo Invitational at Meyo Field. Barber set a school record in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 12.81 seconds, besting the previous record of 12.93 seconds. 

how to basically translate 
safeties 
W tennis 

the message he’s trying to get 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 

to us, and he makes it really clear, and he understands the steepened by the increased fundamentals that are going 
the doubles flights Sunday, minutes because of injuries. to make us succeed,” redfield 
gleason said she was im-This offseason, they’re un-said Friday. “he understands 
pressed with White’s play at der the instruction of a new the technique down to a dot 
No. 3 doubles. position coach, former Irish that we need to succeed, and 
“I thought Katherine cornerback Todd Lyght, who he’s really good at communi­
played especially well this served as an assistant de-cating with us.” 
weekend,” gleason said. fensive backs coach with the redfield said he also learned 
“She stepped up when the Philadelphia Eagles before from losing his starting job 
team needed her in the dou­moving back to South Bend. over the course of last season. 
bles line up. She and monica Lyght said he’s tried to bring “Obviously, it was kin-
had never played together a new mindset to Notre dame da rough for me,” he said. 
before, so it was awesome — one which emphasizes all “Nobody likes to get benched. 
to see that she could jump 11 players on defense know-But at that time, you kinda 
right into the line up and ing each other’s roles and have to reflect. I mean, I’m get-
clinch the doubles point on responsibilities — and he’s ting benched for a reason. The 
Sunday.” seen redfield and Shumate re-coaches have to have some 
All six members of the spond accordingly in the first kind of motive behind this. 
Irish who competed in sin-few weeks of spring ball. “So it kind of gave me some 
gles on Sunday afternoon “I think they’re being more time to reflect upon it and un­
came out victorious, each assertive at their position be-derstand that I’m not entitled 
one by a considerable mar-cause you have to be very vo-to this spot. I have to earn it 
gin. gleason returned to cal,” Lyght said march 23. every day.” 
the lineup at No. 1 singles, “When you’re at the safety po-With this new mindset in 
where she was able to defeat sition, you’re pretty much the place under the new coach, 
top golden Eagle senior Ana quarterbacks of the defense, Kelly said he’s been impressed 
Pimienta, 6-3, 6-2. At No. 3 so you’ve gotta do a good job of with the job his two veteran 
singles, Vrabel won every commanding the defense, an-safeties have done throughout 
game en route to a 6-0, 6-0 ticipating change, anticipat-the spring so far. 
win over marquette sopho­ing shifting, motions, thinks “Their development is clear-
more diana Tokar. like that, and anticipating the ly evident and so much dif-
The extremely strong and 7-0 wins were good tim-on Sunday for a contest with adjustments that need to be ferent from where we were at 
showing in the singles ing coming off an extremely the hokies (12-5, 4-4). made, and I think last year, this time last year or anytime 
matches allowed Notre competitive last weekend on “The next few weeks will with the new defense, they during the season,” he said. 
dame to secure its most lop-the road.” be very important for the were kind of hindered with “We don’t see the missed as-
sided win of the year as it Notre dame will have a team to try to improve our that a bit, and it kind of slowed signments. really two guys 
heads into the homestretch. solid opportunity to pick ranking before NcAAs,” up their thinking process.” that have grasped a hold of 
“This weekend definite-up a couple more wins this gleason said. “We have redfield said he and his what we’re doing out there. 
ly gives us confidence go-weekend when they visit some really good opportu­partner in the secondary have [They’ve] kind of settled into 
ing into the last few weeks Wake Forest and Virginia nities [later in the season] bought into the new style of two solid football players back 
of regular season play,” Tech, a pair of teams be-against teams like duke and play that Lyght brought. there for us.” 
gleason said. “We’ve been low it in the Acc stand-miami, and I’m really ex­“Well, the fact that he was 
having really tight matches ings. At noon Friday, the cited to see how we stack up such a great player, and now Contact Mary Green at 
recently. The great thing Irish will take on the against the top teams in the he’s coaching us, he knows mgreen8@nd.edu 
about the Acc is that every demon deacons (12-9, 2-7) conference.” team has great players and in Winston-Salem, North every match will be com-carolina, before taking a Contact Hunter McDaniel at        petitive. This weekend’s 6-1 trip to Blacksburg, Virginia, hmcdani1@nd.edu 
work on being as good as we Eastern michigan (9-16, 2-4 
Baseball 

can from pitch to pitch,” he mAc) comes to South Bend 
cONTINuEd FrOm PAgE 16 

said. “hopefully we get back on the heels of a three-game 
onto the win column, but series loss to Kent State. The “We’ve got six series in front we’re just gonna worry about Eagles took the first game, of us. We’ve got three of them being as good as we can be 4-3, before being swept in on the road. We’ve got three against Eastern [michigan], Saturday’s doubleheader, 8-6 of them at home. I feel like and hopefully we’ll come out and 12-4. every single one of those se-with a W, and then we’ll go The Irish have defeated ries is a series that we’re ca-to Pitt and worry about try-their previous two mid­pable of winning and have ing to be as good as we can week-game opponents, the ability to win.” possibly be on every pitch central michigan on march 
The Irish were outhit against Pitt.” 18 and Western michigan over the course of the three Two of the bright spots last Wednesday, both by 8-3 games by the cavaliers (18-8, last weekend for the Irish scores. 6-6), 31-20, and left 22 total came from a pair of juniors. Sophomore right-hander runners on base. Shortstop Lane richards hit ryan Smoyer earned those 
“There are some guys who his first career home run two wins and will face the are scuffling — we need to and tagged on a double in Eagles tonight, leading an get them going, and they Sunday’s finale, while first Irish squad hoping to turn need to kind of get out of baseman Zak Kutsulis col-around recent woes. their own way a little bit, but lected an rBI in each game “It’s really tough to do, and I think that they’re press-and went 2-for-3 at the plate it’s just one of those things ing,” Aoki said. “But once we Sunday. where you have to go back to get ourselves back on track Kutsulis said the team the basics — just getting your and just worrying about not would try to take a step back work in in the cage, and you pressing and just playing the to refocus on its day off from have to try forgetting about game the way it’s meant to be competition monday. it, and you have to look as if played, I think we’ll be fine.” “coming off a rough last it’s a whole new year starting 
Aoki said Notre dame also weekend against Louisville right now,” Kutsulis said. needs to stick to playing by and a rough weekend this Notre dame and Eastern its mantra this season of weekend, coach said we michigan will meet at Frank competing every pitch and have to hit the reset but-Eck Stadium on Tuesday, every at-bat against Eastern ton, and that’s kind of what with first pitch delivered at michigan on Tuesday and in we’re doing,” he said. “We’ll 6:05 p.m. its next Acc series against come here [monday], get our Pittsburgh this weekend. work in and play again on Contact Mary Green at 
“We’re just going to try to Tuesday.” mgreen8@nd.edu 




crossWord | WILL ShOrTZ 


hIGhLy PunLIKELy | chrISTOPhEr BrucKEr 
sudoKu | ThE mEPhAm grOuP 

domE nuts | ALExANdrIA WELLmAN 

horoscoPE | EugENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: you can accomplish anything you set your mind to this year if you are dedicated and focused. don’t let anyone lead you astray. This year is about investing in your skills and your future, not someone else’s. Self-improvement and bringing greater satisfaction and happiness into your life will set the stage for years to come. your numbers are 8, 12, 15, 23, 28, 37, 44. 
Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, outgoing and popular. you are self-sufficient and sympathetic. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep life simple and you can reach your goals. A new job or an opportunity to make extra money is within reach. Express your ideas clearly, and interest in what you are doing will follow. you will impress someone influential. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep a low profile. don’t be too vocal about the changes you want to make. Work behind the scenes instead of trying to present your ideas before they are ready. Timing is crucial. Trying to take on too much will lead to disappointment. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take care of unfinished business before beginning something new. Stick to what you do best, and the rest will fall into place. make changes at home that are more conducive to a project you want to pursue. Strive for greater financial security. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let what others are doing distract you. do your own thing and let your imagination and originality take over, and you will come up with a unique contribution. A change in a relationship will turn out to be beneficial. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): go about your business and make changes that suit you and promise greater success or happiness. Following through persistently will pay off. The experience you gain now will help you out in the future. Invest in yourself, not someone else. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put your time and effort into self-improvements, learning and enhancing your skills. don’t let anyone discourage you from following through with plans that will lead to a better you. demanding individuals must be kept at a distance. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you can make things happen. Join forces with people trying to make the same improvements or changes that you are, and you will make new friends and accomplish your goals. good fortune will be yours if you follow through. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will get in your way or cause problems if you neglect your responsibilities. use unusual methods to get around a situation that has the potential to be costly. Put time aside to do something enjoyable with someone special. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Look over contracts or personal documents and you will find a way to save some cash. A home improvement project or using your place as a source of income will ensure a stable financial future. A competitive challenge will motivate you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t rely on anyone for anything. Stick close to home and avoid getting involved in disputes with friends, relatives or neighbors. Personal improvements will bring the highest return as long as you don’t go over budget. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look around, size up your situation and take action. making a move will ensure that you stay ahead of the competition. don’t fall for a sales pitch offering a product that claims to work miracles. use your skills to increase your income. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Question what you are being told. don’t make any plans without doing your homework. changing your appearance shouldn’t cause anxiety. do what makes you feel comfortable and don’t worry about what someone else thinks you should do. 


JumBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNurEK 



make checks payable to and mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city State Zip 

ThE OBSErVEr | tuEsdAy, mArch 31, 2015 | NdSmcOBSErVEr.cOm 
FootBALL 

redfield, shumate solidify play 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant managing Editor 
They might have entered spring practice with a new coach and new style of play, but the Irish safeties are looking to solidify a core duo they had already established last season. 
Senior Elijah Shumate and junior max redfield both earned the start for the sea­son opener against rice on Aug. 30, but they weren’t able to hold that job for the en­tire year. Former Irish cap­tain Austin collinsworth and current sophomore drue Tranquill had switched on and off with Shumate and redfield in the secondary’s first-team, but by the home finale against Louisville on Nov. 22, collinsworth and Tranquill had slid into the starting roles together. 
One week later against uSc, redfield and Shumate regained significant minutes on the field after Tranquill tore his AcL against the cardinals and collinsworth reinjured his shoulder against the Trojans. 

Just a month later, the safeties flashed a new form during the music city Bowl against LSu, holding the Tigers to 151 passing yards and one touchdown through the air, and redfield regis­tered a team-high 14 tackles. 
“The bowl preparation was absolutely crucial to both of those guys,” Irish head coach Brian Kelly said march 25. “defensively, they could see where they needed to grow, and they did, both of them. And now they get into this year, and they know it’s time to really deliver. 
“I think they look back on the year and see that there were clearly some tough times for them, but they’re going to be better because of it.” 
Last offseason, the safeties had to adjust to a new de­fense from then-first-year co­ordinator Brian Vangorder, a learning curve that was 
see SAFETIES PAGE 14 

KEVIN SONG | The Observer 

Irish safeties junior Max Redfield, 10, and senior Elijah Shumate, 22, tackle an LSU ballcarrier at the goal line during Notre Dame’s 31-28 win in the Music City Bowl on Dec. 30. 
BAsEBALL 

Irish look to rebound against Eastern Michigan 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant managing Editor 
Notre dame will try to ex­tend its undefeated run in midweek games this sea­son when it hosts Eastern michigan tonight at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Irish (16-10, 3-9 Acc) are also looking to bounce back from a sweep last week­end at the hands of No. 9 Virginia, their second series loss in a row to a conference opponent. 
After a 9-1 defeat to open the series, Notre dame fell in two tough games Saturday night, 4-2, and Sunday, 5-4. In both matchups, the Irish threatened to make a late run for the win but fell short. 
despite the sweep, Notre dame head coach mik Aoki said his team is still looking at the positives of what re­mains of the season, which the Irish are not even half­way through. 
“I think the thing is that we have everything sill in front of us,” Aoki said. 
see BASEBALL PAGE 14 


nd WomEn’s tEnnIs | Nd 6, Nc STATE 1; Nd 7, mArQuETTE 0 
Notre dame rolls in pair of wins 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
Amongst the cross-cam­pus noise over the weekend, Notre dame quietly had a dominating weekend, de­feating North carolina State and marquette. 
Friday afternoon, the Irish (12-6, 6-3 Acc) never left any doubt in a dismantling of conference opponent Nc State (9-10, 0-8 Acc), win­ning 6-1. 
Notre dame opened the afternoon with a complete team win in doubles, as the No. 20 doubles pair of junior Quinn gleason and sopho­more monica robinson cruised to an 8-1 victo­ry over Wolfpack seniors Nicole martinez and Sophie Nelson at No. 1 doubles. At No. 3 doubles, sophomores Jane Fennelly and mary closs fought to earn an 8-6, come-from-behind victory over Nc State sophomores Liza Fieldsend and Natalia Janowicz after once trailing 5-2. 
With the doubles point clinched, Notre dame continued its dominance into the singles matches, taking home five of the six singles matches en route to the victory. 
Notre dame snowballed its Friday performance into an even more resounding victory on Sunday after­noon, as the Irish rolled over marquette (10-8, 1-1 Big East) in a 7-0 sweep. 
Irish head coach Jay Louderback switched things up for his team a little bit on Sunday by breaking up his top doubles pairing of gleason and robinson. Instead, he went with fresh­man Allison miller and ju­nior Julie Vrabel at the No. 1 doubles flight, closs and Fennelly at No. 2 and a tan­dem of robinson and senior Katherine White at the third flight. 
The latter two pairings for the Irish both snagged wins, allowing Notre dame to take an early lead into the singles portion of the match. It nev­er looked back. 
Though she did not play in 
see W TENNIS PAGE 14 




