


COMMENTARY 

Time to strike for notre dame 


Alex Carson 
Associate sports editor 
As the sun sets throughout the United state on Jan. 11, 2016, the sports world’s eyes will be turned to Glendale, Arizona, where two teams will take the field for the national championship. 

We don’t know who we’ll see on that field in just under nine months. ohio state, the defend­ing national champions, are clearly a favorite. TcU is the trendy pick. Alabama will always be a contender. Florida state and oregon have solid chances of making it back to the four-team playoff. 
but when millions of people nationwide tune in that monday night, what’s to say they won’t be watching the Irish? 
sure, we don’t often talk about five-loss teams as having nation­al title aspirations, but last year’s notre dame squad is far from your normal one. 
At times, it looked brilliant. early in the year, everett Golson was a heisman candidate, mak­ing plays left and right to lead the Irish to a 6-0 start and a no. 5 ranking. 
The defense looked fantastic, too. It didn’t surrender more than 17 points to any of its first five opponents, with the hall­mark performance a shutout of michigan in the series’ final scheduled contest. 

Then the bottom fell out. A controversial ending to a three-point loss at Florida state gave way to a lackluster performance two weeks later against navy. Joe schmidt got hurt, and it spiraled from there, as the Irish lost their last four games of the regular season. 
A team that was once in the playoff conversation was now a national afterthought. 
Typically if a team’s lucky, it gets one chance at immortality. one opportunity together to do something special. 
For notre dame? That just isn’t the case. 
Let’s start with the offense. 
If the old-fashioned folks in the crowd didn’t need any more proof, yes, brian Kelly’s Irish teams can run the dang ball. 
Just look at the music city bowl. With 263 yards on the ground and 37 minutes of pos­session, notre dame controlled the game against LsU — the same Tigers that finished ninth nationally in time of possession. 

only four of those yards — those gained on cam mcdaniel’s one carry — leave the program. 
The entire receiving corps is back, with Will Fuller primed to make his name known to those in charge of the biletnikoff Award, since 15 receiving touch­downs isn’t apparently enough to be considered for the award. 

When the Irish trot on the field for the first snap of 2015, some combination of Fuller, chris brown, Amir carlisle, c.J. Prosise and corey robinson will be standing on the sideline. That’s a good spot to be in. 
but if notre dame contends for a national title, it’s because of the defense. 
If cornerback Keivarae russell returns to the team, notre dame will put 11 players on the field to open the year who have starting experience. 
That’s good, right? 
Jaylon smith might be the best linebacker in America. Joe schmidt will return from his in­jury — the one that derailed last season — and might not even start. That’s how good the Irish linebackers are. 

If it can fully take to brian vanGorder’s defensive scheme this year, the defense could vault into one of college football’s 10 best. 
The schedule? It’s tough but not too tough. 
Georgia Tech, clemson, Usc and stanford will all provide significant challenges, but none of those are too difficult to overcome. 
so here we sit. 
This is brian Kelly’s most tal­ented and experienced team yet at notre dame. 
The stage is set. 
This is notre dame’s time to strike. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the The Observer. 
and secure place. 
RECRUITING 



Okwara pledge brings 2016 commitments to five 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 

When offering scholar­ships to high schoolers, notre dame coaches like to stress how their team is one big family. 
on Tuesday, notre dame added family, literally and figuratively, when it land­ed four-star defensive end Julian okwara. Julian’s old­er brother, romeo, is a se­nior defensive lineman who started twelve games for the Irish last fall. 
The charlotte, north carolina-native okwara, who checks in at no. 179 in the rivals250, is notre dame’s fifth commitment in the class of 2016. At 6-foot-4 and 220 pounds he is listed as a linebacker but projects more as a defensive end. 
“he’s long, [but] he’s going to take some time to devel­op,” Irish recruiting expert Andrew Ivins said. “but he’s the type of kid you can’t pass up on in the south, with schools like clemson and Georgia coming after him.” 
It was along the offensive line, however, where notre dame scored its first com­mitment for 2016. ohioan Tommy Kraemer, a 6-foot­5, 310-pounder, pledged to the Irish in october. rivals’ 31st overall prospect and second-ranked offensive tackle, Kraemer is the gem of the Irish class thus far. Looking to fill a need at of­fensive tackle, the Irish cer­tainly aren’t content with just Kraemer, Ivins said. 
“If you pair him up with a ben bredeson or a Liam eichenberg, that’s your two future tackles,” said Ivins, who is an analyst for the rivals-affiliated blue & Gold Illustrated. bredeson and eichenberg are two top Irish targets, ranked as the no. 3 and no. 37 offensive tackles by rivals, respectively. both players were on campus this past weekend. 
After Kraemer, notre dame didn’t secure a com­mitment for the next five months. Junior day in march got the ball rolling quickly, however, with three com­mitments in a matter of two days. Three-star defensive back Julian Love, a 5-foot-11, 175-pounder, pledged march 
21. Love, who hails from LaGrange Park, Illinois, is currently the no. 30 cor­nerback in the nation, per rivals. Love provides ver­satility for a secondary that Ivins said may see up to five new faces in this class see­ing as it’s the biggest posi­tion of need. 
“he can play all three positions in the second­ary,” Ivins said. “he might not be the biggest physical specimen, but he has great instincts. he’s quick when he needs to be, and he can make a hit.” 
Pledging along with Love on march 21 was Illinois native and two-star cen­ter John shannon, who is widely considered the top long snapper in the class. The 6-foot-2, 235-pound shannon has notre dame in his blood, with his grandfa­ther and father both having suited up for the Irish. With current long snapper scott daly holding two more years of eligibility, the plan will be for shannon to redshirt in 2016 before taking over the starting job in 2017, Ivins said. 
After Love and shannon pledged on march 21, the Irish secured a commitment from Florida running back Tony Jones the day after. At 6-foot-1, 212 pounds, rivals rates Jones the 29th best back. 
“What notre dame likes about him is he’s a differ­ent type of back,” Ivins said. “he’s a powerful back … [he] lost some weight, so he’s put on a little bit of speed. They like him because he can do a lot of things — he’s really good in pass protection, [and] he can catch the ball out of the backfield.” 
With those five in the fold, the Irish really only have room for another dozen or so prospects, Ivins said. This gives notre dame the opportunity to be extreme­ly selective with the rest of its spots as the coaches get back into recruiting mode with the spring evaluation period opening this past Wednesday. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueandGold.com.
    Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 

No Hassle ‘Move and Store’ Your Stuff. 
From Dorm to Storage. 
You can also pack up, pick up and deliver your own ‘stuff’ to our facility located at 903 South Main Street in South Bend. 
Contact Information: 574-288-1229 or 1-800-876-1906 or visit michianamovingandstorage.com 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 


the backing of the data. empirical undergo bod Pod scans to assess said he doesn’t want to adopt that been taking unbelievable good 


By MARY GREEN 

Assistant managing editor data obviously provides great their body fat percentage. game plan this season — it’s all or notes, attentive. he’s very engaged 
feedback for them as they go but it’s also a game in the mind, nothing. in the process, very engaged in the Football is a game of numbers. along.” filled with plays and schemes and “I mean, it’s not the ideal situa-mental side of the game, and then Touchdowns, field goals, safe-Zaire said moving past just film quick reads right before the snap. tion,” he said. “I mean at the end of at practice he’s self-correcting.” 
ties, turnovers, yards per game, and looking at the numbers — When it comes to that mental the day, there’s only one captain Golson has 23 career starts un­carries, receptions — these all “something that sticks with you a aspect, Kelly indicated Golson Jack sparrow of the offense. You der his belt compared to Zaire’s have values that can be added little bit more” — help him and his might have a leg up. know, coach Kelly makes the de-one, but an array of late-season and subtracted, and they lead to teammates figure out where they “sometimes, [Zaire]’ll check cisions on the team — like I said, I fumbles in 2014 proved he’s far the total tallies in the win and loss need to improve. into some things that we’re not don’t get paid to make decisions; I from a perfect quarterback. Kelly columns. “I think that’s a step up from quite certain as to what he was wish I did — but I just do what I’m said Golson’s pocket presence 
For notre dame, a team with what we didn’t do last year,” he thinking,” Kelly said last saturday. supposed to do, and however it has been a point of emphasis this hopes each year of keeping that said. “I think it gives us a visual of “everett, there’s no doubt about plays out, it plays out. I’ve just got spring. loss column clean, the quarter-our actual performance of how we where his mind is relative to what to make the most of my opportu-“I would say that everett’s done back duel has become more than a did efficiency-wise and consisten-he’s seeing and what he’s think-nities and go from there.” a great job in the pocket,” Kelly choice between two simple num-cy-wise after practice.” ing. Like, ‘Why did you go to that, no matter if he wins the start-said Wednesday. “he’s really pro­bers, 5 and 8. While Irish coaches have devel-everett.’ makes total sense. For ing job or not, Zaire said his mind gressed in the area’s that we’ve 
It’s come down to something of oped a more complex way to gauge that, as it relates to malik, we’re is centered around one objective, asked him to. … he’s had a really a science. the quarterback competition, still kinda in that process of, ‘What the same goal he’s had during all good spring, and I expect him to 
“What we’re doing is quanti-they’ve also decided to get back to were you thinking?’” his time at notre dame. have a good spring game as well.” fying it as much as we can, the basics to develop both their signal sanford said Zaire was “very “I came in hungry, still hungry, As with Zaire, sanford said he’s competition,” offensive coordina-callers as much as possible during coachable and very zealous in will always be hungry, continue trying to tone down Golson’s ea-tor and quarterbacks coach mike sanford’s first year at notre dame. wanting to learn and correct ev-to get better,” he said. “my con-gerness in certain situations. sanford said April 1. “statistically, “When [chuck] martin was erything,” but he also admitted fidence has never been lower or “I think for everett, it’s just they’re getting graded on every running the offense, there was Zaire’s enthusiasm can be prob-higher at this point. I think if any-sometimes he gets so excited rep. We want those guys to feel like a real focus on the quarterbacks lematic at times. thing it’s maintained the same when there’s a wide-open throw there’s accountability for every rep and protections and really being “It’s a double-edged sword be-and continuing to be around my — his feet show excitement when that they take.” cognizant of how to protect them-cause if he makes a ton of progress, teammates and continuing to fo-you’re watching the tape, his body 
The Irish coaches expect their selves. … With [matt] LaFleur, it then he believes he’s the offensive cus on that goal of winning that language shows excitement, and players to keep their grades up in was concepts, concepts, concepts. coordinator at the line of scrim-ring. That’s all that’s on my mind basically just taking the offense the classroom, and now they want … Those two things they are re-mage, or he believes he’s the play right now.” as it comes and just throw the ap­their starters to make the cut on ally good at,” Kelly said. “some of caller,” sanford said. “We want propriate throw and don’t get so the field as well this spring — even the fundamentals, which we saw him to be a great quarterback, get Golson: fully committed fired up,” sanford said monday. though head coach brian Kelly were exposed last year, are the us out of danger problems; when rumors swirled after notre “he gets jacked up when there’s a said the final decision probably areas that mike sanford is really there’s an overload pressure, get dame’s bowl win that Golson, post open.” won’t be made until fall camp. strong at. us the right protection, get us the who had started every game in 
sanford explained that the sys-“ … We’re seeing that come to-right concept. … We don’t want to 2014 before Zaire usurped him A good dilemma tem essentially rewards or penal-gether at practice. so, where are give him full autonomy or really in the finale, was considering a no matter who’s under cen­izes quarterbacks on if they did we with them? I’m seeing them any quarterback full autonomy.” transfer next fall. ter, the rest of the team won’t get their job on a play and said he so much more in-tune with the That won’t keep Zaire from While Kelly said he wouldn’t be caught up in the final decision. hopes the new system will keep fundamentals of the positions looking for full autonomy when it surprised by anything a college-“For us, speaking as a whole, it the competition from turning into and doing the little things now comes to getting the first snaps of age player does, he does not fore-doesn’t really matter to us,” gradu­a controversy between graduate that I think can accelerate their the season opener against Texas see handing the starting job to ate student receiver Amir carlisle student everett Golson and junior growth.” on sept. 5. Zaire based on Golson’s absence said last Friday. “both guys have malik Zaire. Zaire earned the start in last in south bend. done great things. everett did 
“There’s not going to be any Zaire: the learning curve season’s bowl win against LsU, “he’s had his best spring since great last year for us. malik did a guesswork,” he said. “You know Football is a game that plays out but he and Golson switched off he’s been here,” Kelly said last great job finishing last year for us. obviously we’re going to go, when on the field, between teams whose behind center and split time on saturday of Golson. “he’s fully “I’m a fan of both of them. both we make that decision, whenever players have specific training the final, game-winning drive. engaged in everything that he’s of them are friends of mine, and that may be, as a staff, we’ll have regimens developed for them and The left-handed gunslinger doing. It’s the best that I’ve seen I’m glad I don’t have to make the 
him do the things that we’ve asked decision because both of them are him to do since he’s been here. … great quarterbacks.” but there’s no indication that any-Kelly added the Irish want thing that he’s done would mean a leader who will be willing to that he’s just doing this as a way to give his all to collect a win each go somewhere else. If I sensed it at saturday. all, I would’ve pulled the plug on it “They’re just looking for some-myself because we’re wasting our body that is committed and some­time.” body that is going to help them be 
Golson himself has remained successful, so that’s all they want mum since the bowl game, declin-from a quarterback,” Kelly said ing to talk with reporters, but Kelly saturday. “so the quarterback said he trusts his quarterback’s here at notre dame is gotta be decision. somebody that’s 100 percent com­
“he doesn’t want to do media mitted to winning, and both of and stuff like that because he’s those kids are, and as long as they focused on his academics and are, they’re gonna embrace who-graduating, and I’m oK with that,” ever’s out on the football field.” Kelly said saturday. “I’m fine with even with a close decision ahead that. he’s had his share of living in of him and his staff, Kelly said he the bright lights of it.” knows they have enviable talent 
sanford said he’s noticed that from both candidates — no matter commitment in Golson as well, what the final numbers say. even in just the few weeks that “In terms of depth, I don’t know make up the spring slate. that anybody has a better situa­
“The thing about everett that tion than we do with the two quar­I’ve been so appreciative of is terbacks that we have,” he said. his buy-in,” sanford said April 1. “everett’s been outstanding in the Contact Mary Green at meeting room environment. he’s mgreen8@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




2015 SEASON PROJECTED DEPTH CHART 
Editor’s Note: This depth chart is based on spring practice observations by Observer beat writers Mary Green, 

Chris Brown 
Senior 
Torii Hunter Jr. 
Junior 

Wr 

Amir Carlisle 
Graduate Student 
C.J. Prosise 
Senior 
ronnie stanley Senior 
Hunter Bivin 
Junior 
OT Quenton nelson 
Sophomore 
Alex Bars 
Sophomore 

OG 

Brian Plamondon, Alex Carson, Greg 
everett Golson 
nick Martin Hadley and Zach Klonsinski. Graduate Student 
Graduate Student 

Only players currently on the team sam Mustipher 
Malik Zaire 


were considered. Sophomore 
Junior 
C
QB 

Tarean Folston 
steve elmer 
Junior Junior 

Greg Bryant John Montelus 
Junior Junior 


rB OG Mike McGlinchey 
Junior 
Colin McGovern 
Junior 



OT
durham smythe 
Junior 
Tyler Luatua 
Sophomore 
Tyler newsome 

Sophomore 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
There can be little doubt notre dame is in prime position for a successful 2015, at least when com­pared to last year’s late-season collapse. brian Kelly returns too many battle-tested starters to reason­ably expect otherwise. 
but what should worry Irish fans are the players on the opposing sidelines; notre dame’s opponents next year are underwhelming, and that could hurt the Irish in the long run. Unlike last year, there is no potential statement game, no Florida state-on­the-road opportunity. The margin for error is ra­zor thin. Lose once, to clemson on the road or Usc at home, and the Irish will be out of the college Football Playoff hunt. And as improved as the team may be, I don’t see notre dame running the table. 


REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 10-2 


Mary Green 
Assistant managing editor 

For the Irish, the knocks taken in 2014 will translate into a strengthened defense in 2015, which is led by a key group of upperclassmen. however, they are backed by a sophomore corps that has game experience under their belts. That experience will be invaluable — last year’s struggles proved that. 
The big questions for the Irish are on offense, begin­ning with the starting quarterback, where there’s still no clear front-runner. Up front, the offensive line returns just two starters from last season, which will spell some early-season difficulties. 
once the line and the eventual quarterback find their groove, a tough three-game stretch in october against clemson, navy and Usc could strike at the wrong time to ruin notre dame’s plans for the college Football Playoff. 


REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 9-3 

Will Fuller 
Junior 
Corey robinson 
Junior 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
While all eyes are on the quarterback, the biggest key for notre dame is its defensive health. 
Linebacker is the deepest position on the defen­sive side of the ball, and the defensive line is expe­rienced at the top of the depth chart, but a loss or two here will spell trouble. A question mark remains over the secondary as well. 
notre dame is too deep offensively to struggle re­gardless of who is in the gun. 
between Texas and clemson, I foresee the Irish letting one slip away, but circle the oct. 17 revenge date with the Trojans as the season-definer. A win and the Irish are in at least a new Year’s day bowl, but if they lose, there’s no strength of schedule to fall back on. 



REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 10-2 


Matthias Farley 
Graduate Student 
nick Watkins 
Sophomore 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 





romeo Okwara 
Senior 
Grant Blankenship 
Sophomore 
Jaylon smith Junior 
nyles Morgan 
Sophomore 

elijah shumate 
Senior 
nicky Baratti 
Senior 
sheldon day 
Senior 
Jay Hayes 
Sophomore 

Joe schmidt 
Graduate Student 
Jarrett Grace 
Graduate Student 
Jarron Jones 

Max redfield 
Senior Junior 

Jerry Tillery 
drue Tranquill 
Freshman Sophomore 

James Onwualu 
Junior 
Greer Martini 
Sophomore 
Isaac rochell 
Junior 
Andrew Trumbetti 
Sophomore 

Cole Luke 
Junior 
devin Butler 
Junior 
ERIN RICE and CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 


Alex Carson 
Associate sports editor 
notre dame’s success will be defined by a five-game stretch. 
In a game that seemingly everyone forgets about, Georgia Tech visits sep. 19. The Irish have struggled in the past with navy’s triple-option offense; Tech’s is better. Then after a chance to rest up against lowly Umass, notre dame will head to death valley on oct. 3 for its toughest road test, clemson. From there, perennial rivals navy and Usc — the best team on the schedule — come to town. 
remember that brian Kelly’s teams have won just once the week after playing navy. 
If they make it through that stretch, the Irish will have Pittsburgh and boston college salivating at the thought of ru­ining a perfect campaign. 
This is brian Kelly’s most talented team yet. but I’m not con­vinced they can avoid last year’s fatal mistakes. 



REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 10-2 


Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
redemption will be the mantra this season. 

notre dame returns every important piece from last year’s disappointing finish but has the 31-28 bowl win to build on. 
In order to have success, brian Kelly must settle on either everett Golson or malik Zaire as the starter rather quickly in fall camp; nevertheless, expect both to see time. Whoever is running the show will have a talented offensive line in front of him and one of the deepest receiving corps in the nation. 
The defense will be much improved, although the second­ary is still a question mark. 
The Irish are lucky they first face Texas, which should find its groove later in the season. If they can squeeze by, they should be undefeated until the gauntlet in october that includes clemson and Usc. This team is better than 2012’s, but the Irish will get tripped up at least once along the way. 


REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 11-1 






Loaded linebacking group leads Irish defense 

KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Junior linebackers James Onwualu (17) and Jaylon Smith, along with junior defensive lineman Isaac Rochell (90), try to break past the Irish offensive line to reach graduate         student quarterback Everett Golson (in red) during one of Notre Dame’s spring practices April 8 at Loftus Sports Center. 
significant time on the field. what the key was, and it’s There’s so many tools. position. 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

sports editor The inexperience showed. everybody buying in and “ … [elston] was my re-during last saturday’s over the final five games playing together, playing cruiting coordinator, so I scrimmage, morgan (mike), 
entering the 2015 season, of the regular season — be-selfless.” always had that close rela-onwualu (sam) and smith notre dame finds itself in a ginning with navy, when on the down side, in notre tionship, but I’m happy for (Will) took the first team refreshing situation: It might schmidt went down — notre dame’s scheme, only three him being able to expand his reps, while Grace, martini just have too many bodies at dame allowed an average linebackers are on the field role and try out something and coney made up the sec-linebacker. of 43.4 points per game and at once, and with the ad-he hasn’t done since, I be-ond rotation, respectively. 
After a year in which went 1-4. Until that point, dition of freshman early lieve, central michigan.” schmidt, a natural mike, graduate student lineback-the defense had surrendered enrollee Te’von coney, the vanGorder began spring was cleared for non-contact ers Jarrett Grace and Joe only 19.1 points per game Irish are now two-deep plus practices by working with drills last saturday, though schmidt missed all or sig-while leading the Irish to a one this spring, creating a elston and the linebackers, it remains to be seen where nificant parts of the season shutout win over michigan log-jam particularly stuck at the group he coached last vanGorder and elston throw with injuries, the Irish en-and a 6-0 start to the sea-middle linebacker. season, to help smooth the him into the mix as well. tered spring ball with three son before the loss at Florida “I think that nyles gained transition. “We’ll work Jaylon around. starting spots and seven po-state. experience last year, so go-however, as time has gone of course, Joe schmidt will tential bodies to fill them. however, the younger ing into his second year, we on he said he has started cross-train. he knows all 
In the absence of Grace players gained valuable ex-feel much better with him,” walking around to visit the the positions of linebacker,” and schmidt last season, ju-perience on the field. Irish defensive coordinator other defensive groups as vanGorder said. “Probably nior linebacker Jaylon smith “not really a bad taste, brian vanGorder said march elston settled in to his new midway through [spring], was thrust into running just a learning experience,” 23. “ … I expect all three of position. three-quarters of the way the defense, while class-smith said march 18 of last them [Grace, schmidt and As to how to clear the grid-through, we’ll cross-train mate James onwualu and season. “We kind of had our morgan] to play a lot.” lock inside, vanGorder has Jaylon a little bit.” sophomores Greer martini defining moment, playing Although it’s year two play-also discussed cross-train­and nyles morgan all saw LsU and just understanding ing in vanGorder’s defense, ing smith and schmidt be-Contact Zach Klonsinski at            
the linebacker group is now yond the middle linebacker zklonsin@nd.edu headed by mike elston, who PAId AdverTIsemenT 
is in his first year at the po­sition after leading the de­fensive line since 2010. The transition to elston from former Irish assistant bob elliott, who moved to an off-field role as special assistant to the head coach this year, has been a smooth one by all accounts. 
“The exciting thing for me is that it allows me to focus more on the whole part of the defense, from run de­fense to coverage, and that’s exciting,” elston said march 
23. “I’m familiar with that, and I’ve played that, and I’ve coached that role before. 
“ … We have a great group of guys to work with, so that transition has been pretty easy.” 
smith said he agreed from a player’s perspective. “The comfort is defi­nitely there,” smith said of 



Offer valid for students graduating in 2015 from the University of Notre Dame, Holy Special rate available for vehicles 2012 or newer. Max term is 72 months. Interest will Cross College or St. Mary’s College. Proof of firm commitment from an employer in the accrue during six (6) month deferral period. form of an offer letter must be presented and have an effective date within 180 days 
vanGorder’s defense. “We 
of the application date. Example: Assume you will borrow $15,000 with a $95 loan processing fee; the loan amount will be $15,095. The calculated APR on a 5-year loan with an interest rate of 
APR is annual percentage rate. Loan is subject to credit approval. Actual interest rate and 1.74% would be 1.99%. APR will vary. Automatic payment from an NDFCU account is required and will receive a .25% discount. A $95 loan processing fee will be charged on all closed auto loans. Independent of the University. 
have experienced guys now. We’re getting healthy again. We still love the defense. 





NEW JOB. NEW RIDE. 

1.99% APR NO PAYMENTS FOR FIRST 6 MONTHS 
Congratulations graduates! Ride off to your new job with an auto loan from Notre Dame FCU. Call 844/323-4467 or visit us online at NotreDameFCU.com/GraduationOffer to start your new career in style! Offer ends May 31, 2015. 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 2015 | The observer 



Secondary all but solidified after spring 
but while Lyght and vanGorder expect players like redfield to be vocal presences in the center of the field, they said Luke’s leadership style is based more on example. 
“I think his leadership comes in the way [young­er players] know he knows what he’s doing,” vanGorder said. “he’s a quiet commu­nicator, but they trust that he knows the defense well. A very bright player, so he’s a different kind of leader for us.” 
The only uncertainty re­maining is the second cor­nerback spot. Keivarae russell, who missed all of last season due to the in­vestigation into academic dishonesty, is expected to return to the Irish in the fall, contingent on his aca­demic work. 
but until he does, the Irish have played junior devin butler and sophomore nick Watkins. While Lyght and vanGorder both said they liked the physical skill-sets of each player, they still want to see continual development. 
“When I watch devin and I watch nick, these are guys with tremendous talent, tre­mendous playmaking abil­ity, and you see them flash,” Lyght said. “but consistent­ly, they don’t do it at a high level enough consistently that we could be really, re­ally successful.” 
The most senior member of the secondary, graduate student matthias Farley, will fill in wherever need­ed this season, vanGorder said. Trained at both safety and cornerback, Farley is most likely to see time in the nickel package, a valu­able position only a veteran could take on, Lyght said. 
“he does a great job of understanding the 2-3 ex­changes, which is very diffi­cult for young players, where offenses like to move guys around, and you lose lever­age off the 2-3 exchange,” Lyght said. “I think he does 

By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
It was the big question mark in the back. The one area where notre dame’s defense was constantly lack­ing, injured or both. The place where the Irish were exposed again and again last season. The secondary. 
A year after being shred­ded for 22 passing touch­downs and 2,878 yards through the air, though, the Irish end spring practice with clear favorites to start at the cornerback and safety positions. 
Junior max redfield and senior elijah shumate both started at least 10 games at safety last year, but both also saw the bench in some of the final games of the year as they struggled to adjust to defensive coordinator brian vanGorder’s complex defense. 
“The scheme that he want­ed to run was more than we had ever seen,” redfield said. “And then the amount of time we had to learn it and install it was obviously shorter than what was com­fortable for us. obviously, it’s a process learning any­thing new.” 
however, the time on the field and the lessons learned on the bench left their mark. This spring, redfield and shumate have played like veterans and earned the li­on’s share of the first-team reps. 
“They’ve been real solid so far, both of them; real sol­id, way more comfortable, way more knowledgeable,” vanGorder said. “not getting a lot of panicked snaps from them. They’re playing much more confident.” 
head coach brian Kelly also said he was pleased with the safeties’ play throughout the spring but highlighted an area they still had room to improve upon. 
“defensively, I think we’re seeing both of safeties — I would like them to commu­nicate a little bit more de­monstratively, more vocally louder — but it’s night and day compared to their rec­ognition of what’s happen out there and how they’re seeing things,” Kelly said. 
For vanGorder, the impor­tance of being vocal on the field is especially important for safeties, whom he said he considers “the quarterbacks of the defense.” redfield said he has worked on developing 

MON – SAT: 8 am – 10 pm a good job communicating 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 




that aspect of his game this spring. 
on the right side of the field, junior cole Luke virtu­ally has one cornerback spot locked down after starting all 13 games last season. While he deferred to the now-graduated cody riggs in 2014, Luke has stepped up to lead the cornerback corps. 
“cole’s tremendous,” new Irish defensive backs coach Todd Lyght said. “right now, he’s our no. 1 corner, doing a great job of showing the other younger players what it takes to be successful. … The way he goes about ev­erything in his approach — I mean, he’s very attentive in meetings; he’s a leader in our group during individual periods. … I really like the way that he’s stepping up in a leadership role.” 



IVY RD 

TWYCKENHAM DR 


JUST EAST OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Within the Overlook at Notre Dame Professional Student/Faculty & Staff Apartment Community 
NEW HOURS 
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 


with the inside linebackers 
SUN: 9 am – 8 pm 
DUNN RD 
Due to popular demand, the new Café at the Overlook 
has extended our hours. Join us for dinner or a snack 
and study now until 10 PM Monday through Saturday. 
of how they’re going to play 
Breakfast will now begin at 8 AM these days. 
those 2-3 exchanges, and so 


LOCATION 
Rolf’s 
On Sundays, we are now open 9 AM to 8 PM. 
I think that he’s going to be a 

54721 Burdette St. 
really big part of what we’re 

South Bend, IN 46637 
WILLIS ST
COURTNEY LN  BURDETTE ST CAFÉ AT THE OVERLOOK 
ND Athletic  

Fields  Hawk’s  
Crosswalk  

The Café is a casually-eclectic and cozy restaurant 
going to do this year.” 

574.271.3727 
with a fresh, trendy menu. In fact, we have extended 
despite the trials of last 


secondary has come togeth-
Between 

Near the Hawk’s crosswalk our menu as well as our hours. 
redfield said the 
VANESS ST 
season, 
The Café’s inventive and flavorful dishes include daily the Buns We also offer Café Gift Cards. er as a unit and bought in to specials and carry-out, with daily Quick Grabs ToGo that 

the defensive system. 
are extra fast take-out dishes. 
“We’re all in it together,” redfield said of his mes-

Visit us online at cafeoverlook.com and follow us on 


Come see us during our new hours, we think you’ll find 
sage to younger players. 

Facebook and Instagram for daily specials and news. 
our atmosphere, cuisine and people refreshing. 
“everyone has a role that is going to contribute to the team, and if we’re not all on the same page, then it’s not going to work.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at      ghadley@nd.edu 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Sophomore punter/kicker Tyler Newsome follows through on a field-Irish offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach Mike Sanford watches as junior quarterback Malik goal attempt at LaBar Practice Complex last Saturday. Zaire winds up for a pass during Notre Dame’s practice last Saturday at LaBar Practice Complex. 




PAId AdverTIsemenT 


We’re now leasing for 2016-2017! Apply and sign your lease online today: 
IrishRowApartments.com 
1855 Vaness Drive  | South Bend, IN 46637 | 574.277.6666 






