The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 43 | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
 ND announces pilot program in China 
University to allow select Chinese factories to produce officially liscensed products 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame is launching a pilot program that will allow se­lected factories in china to man­ufacture university-licensed products, with the goal of de­termining if they can meet and maintain worker treatment stan­dards, university president Fr. John Jenkins said in an email to students late wednesday night. 
in 2013, university executive vice president John affleck­graves appointed a worker participation committee (wpc) to review notre dame’s licensing code of conduct due to an in­creasing frequency of interac­tions between the university and china, according to the website of the office of the executive vice president. 
after two years of research and deliberation, the wpc issued a set of recommended changes to the university’s existing licens­ing policy. Jenkins approved these recommendations and di­rected the pilot program to be­gin, according to the email. 
according to Jenkin’s email, the university implemented a policy in 2001 that prohibited 11 countries, including china, from producing notre dame-licensed products. 
“The university’s decision at that time was bold, principled and widely applauded,” Jenkins 
see china PAGE 5 


ANNMARIE SOLLER | The Observer 
University executive vice president John Affleck-Graves speaks at an open forum with the Worker  Participation Committee in the McKenna Hall Auditorium on Jan. 26. 




Professor panel analyzes voter demographics 

voter participation By EDDIE DAMSTRA news writer year’s elections.  in next truth. nonetheless, campbell said there are certain miscon- By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER news writer  march 2011, the syrian civil war has taken its toll on the  
political science de partment ceptions about youth voters.  nation’s people, bennett said.  
a panel of four faculty experts chair david campbell began  addressing the students in  a refugee of the syrian civil  according to bennett — who  
gathered in the geddes hall cof­the discussion by hig hlighting the room, campbell said, “on  war, using the pseudonym  called the crisis in syria “the  
fee house Thursday evening to the significance of t he youth most issues your generation  amin ahmed, and president  worst humanitarian crisis in  
discuss different demographic demographic in american poli­ does lean farther to the left  of the Tanenbaum center  the world” — more than half  
groups and their implica­tics. he centered his  speech than your parents and your  for interreligious learning  a million people have been  
tions on the 2016 election in an on challenging “myt hs about grandparents.”  dr. georgette bennett, both  killed, 12 million have been  
event titled “identity politics? young people and the ir role in however, campbell said one  representing the multifaith  internally displaced or are in  
Thinking about groups in the american politics.”  exception to this is the issue of  alliance for syrian refugees,  need of urgent care and four  
2016.” campbell said man y people abortion.  spoke on the syrian refugee  million have registered as  
The event was hosted by nd generalize that the “y outh are “young people today look  crisis Thursday morning in  refugees since the start of the  
votes ’16, a non-partisan coali­apathetic liberals” –  a claim  debartolo hall.  
tion dedicated to promoting he said retains some  degree of see voTes PAGE 4  since protests began in  see reFugee PAGE 4  

syrian refugee shares experiences 


Club hosts walk to raise funds for ALS research 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
associate news editor 
little more than a year af­ter videos of people soak­ing themselves with ice water flooded Facebook feeds for the “als ice-bucket challenge,” the neuroscience club will hold the first annual notre dame als walk on saturday, in conjunc­tion with the college of science. 
all proceeds from the walk will support als programs and re­search, social service chair of the neuroscience club junior chris Ferari said. 
Ferari, who helped promote and organize the event, said the goal of the walk is to raise aware­ness for the disease on campus and “make people aware that we want this to be something we’re going to do every year.” 
“[we want] to get it on ev­eryone’s radar and say, ‘This is something that we want to con­tinue to do. als isn’t going away, so we want to continue to raise awareness past just this year,’” he said. 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
see als PAGE 5 







ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
At what age did you stop trick-or-treating? 

Luke Ripley 
sophomore o’neill hall 
“14.” 

Dennis Gilbert 
freshman morrissey manor 
“i still trick-or-treat.” 

Jack Jenkins 
freshman st. edward’s hall 
“17.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Jesse Shank 
sophomore morrissey manor 
“eighth grade.” 

Jonah Poczobutt 
sophomore morrissey manor 
“16.” 


Katie Arndorfer 
junior 
ryan hall 

“you’re never too old to trick-or­treat.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
clare kossler marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
matthew mckenna maureen schweninger martha reilly Zach klonsinski 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Labor Cafe Religion Seminar All Saints’ / All Souls’ Urban Plunge Workshop: “Crafting 
michael yu austin Taliaferro 
Geddes Hall McKenna Hall Day Mass Information Session a Strong Grant 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. Dillon Hall Geddes Hall Proposal” Explore social justice Discover links 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Brownson Hall 
Corrections 

issues with the Higgins between religion and Spanish Mass and Day Information on winter 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as Labor Program. jazz in America. of the Dead celebration. break service program. Learn about grants. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ND Women’s Soccer Saturday Vigil Mass Evening Vespers Respect Life Mass Snite Salon Series 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
vs. Virginia Tech Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred Snite Museum of Art 
however, recognize that we will make 
Alumni Stadium Heart Heart Heart 5 p.m.-5:45 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Gather to discover 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the Celebrate mass with Evening prayer in the Pray for greater artwork and exchange 
we can correct our error. 

Hokies. fellow students. Lady Chapel. respect for human life. thoughts. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | The observer 

Executive explains benefits of impact investing 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer 
andi phillips, a vice presi­dent in the urban investment group at goldman sachs, spoke about the importance of impact investing during a conversation with direc­tor of the gigot center for entrepreneurship sam miller on Thursday evening. phillips served as the keynote speak­er for the 2015 irish impact social entrepreneurship conference. 
according to the confer­ence's website, the aim of the conference is to discuss im­pact investing, the practice by which investors finance projects that can provide social benefits to a commu­nity. phillips said her work at goldman sachs aligns with this practice and that she has made it her mission to “drive strong financial re­turns while also having a very strong social impact.” 
“There are opportunities to invest in the communities where we live and work that can have that double bottom line,” phillips said. 
as a result, impact invest­ing is not only be beneficial to the investor, but also to the government and individual communities, phillips said. she said the main problem service providers face in try­ing to help the community is a lack of funding. 
“if what i’m paying for is outcomes, which is at the end of the story, how do i get the capital i need as the service provider to actually deliver the service?” phillips said. 
Furthermore, phillips said many service providers would be unable to recover from large investment failures. 

“service providers don’t have the financial where­withal to absorb the risk of not reaching the impact and therefore not getting paid.” 
in contrast, large com­panies like goldman sachs can absorb this type of risk, phillips said. she said be­cause of this, service provid­ers can “use private capital to finance the services people need.” 
phillips discussed sev­eral projects through which impact investing has al­
“Get involed in the social issues you care about in such a way that you begin to understand what the challenges are and how to effectuatuce change in that area.” 
Andi Phillips 
vice president 
Urban Investment Group 
Goldman Sachs 

ready  been  beneficial  for  
goldman  sachs  and  the  
community.  she  said  one  

particular project involved funding prevention pro­grams in massachusetts for at-risk young men in order to prevent recidivism, which is the cycle of arrests and con­victions to which many first-time criminals fall prey. 
The problem, phillips said, was that “the government was spending of all its money to actually put these kids in prison and incarcerate them and didn’t have the money to pay for the preventive services.” 
she said goldman sachs provided this funding, with the potential to receive finan­cial returns depending on the success of the program. 
“For every decrease in re­cidivism and increase in employment, the common­wealth will make a payment,” phillips said. 
The program was a great success, phillips said, low­ering massachusetts’s re­cidivism rates and bringing financial returns to goldman sachs. 
phillips also discussed the positives of some of goldman sachs’ impact investing fail­ures, specifically an attempt at rikers island to lower re­cidivism through cognitive behavioral therapy. although the therapy failed to have an effect, phillips said the ven­ture “represented a very dif­ferent way of the government doing business.” 
“There was no waste of taxpayer dollars, because it was goldman sachs and bloomberg philanthropy that lost money,” phillips said. 
Finally, phillips offered ad­vice for those looking to be­come involved in the impact investing field. 
“get involved in the social issues you care about in such a way that you begin to un­derstand what the challeng­es are and how to effectuate change in that area,” she said. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
campus ministry celebrates saint at prayer service 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
underneath the high altar of the basilica of the sacred heart rests a relic of st. marcellus, a roman centurion martyred in 298 a.d. for refusing to deny his catholic faith. 
campus ministry hosted its annual prayer service for st. marcellus on Thursday night in the basilica to remember and celebrate the martyr and all he represents. 
Fr. peter rocca, rector for the basilica, said st. marcellus re­fused to offer incense to an idol in honor of the emperor’s birth­day during his time as a soldier in Tangiers, morocco. he was put on trial for his disobedience and ulti­mately sentenced to death for his refusal to renounce his christian faith. oct. 30 is the feast day of st. marcellus. 
“The story goes that he stood in front of the standards of his legion — the legion’s flags — and then made a public declaration that he was a christian and could no longer keep the oath that he had made to serve the emperor,” rocca said. 
The basilica is also home to the relics of members of the Theban legion, including its chief, st. maurice. during the rule of diocletian, a time of christian persecution, the legion was instructed to kill a group of christians they encountered. many of the soldiers believed in the christian faith and refused to follow orders, choosing to die instead. 
“These men, many of whom were martyrs, gave their lives for christ,” rocca said. “They point, not to themselves, but they point to their commitment to Jesus christ, their faith in Jesus christ. we need those kind of reminders, i think, in our daily lives.” 
alan kreider, professor emeri­tus at anabaptist mennonite biblical seminary, recounted the martyrdom of st. marcellus at the prayer service. rocca said a large number of mennonites trav­el to the basilica from goshen, indiana, each year to participate in the prayer service. 
“The mennonites have almost adopted st. marcellus in particu­lar as a patron saint of their com­mitment to pacifism,” rocca said. “ … They come all the way here, sometimes walking on foot, from goshen, indiana, to offer their prayers to god in front of the icon of st. marcellus.” 
at the prayer service, Fr. emmanuel katongole, associate professor of theology and peace studies, delivered the 2015 st. marcellus day address. 
st. marcellus is considered the patron saint of conscientious ob­jectors, which aligns with values notre dame hopes to instill in its students, rocca said. 
“i think [st. marcellus] is very important and relevant to stu­dents because he was willing to stand up for what he believed in, no matter what the cost might be,” rocca said. “he had the cour­age to profess his faith in christ, to speak the truth, to be a real witness to Jesus and his beliefs. i think we need models of people like that today.” 
during the years of christian persecution, mass was often cel­ebrated in roman catacombs on the tombs of martyrs, rocca said. he said relics are often placed un­der altars in observance of this tradition. Fr. sorin brought the relics of st. marcellus, st. maurice, the Theban legion and many oth­er saints to the university from his trips to rome during the 1860s. 
“These relics are visible, tan­gible signs that speak to — in this case — the sacrifice that the indi­vidual made for his belief in Jesus christ,” rocca said. 
rocca said st. marcellus provides an example to guide students faced with making decisions. 
“i think too often we are hesi­tant to speak up, hesitant to do the right thing, hesitant to say the right thing,” rocca said. “it’s a matter of taking to heart what we profess as christians and living it out in our daily lives. and some­times it will mean disagreeing with friends. 
“i would hope and think that all of our graduates would have the guts and the courage to say and do the right thing, just like st. marcellus.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC students tour campus ghost story sites 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Thirteen years after the publi­cation of "Quiet hours," a collec­tion of ghost stories taking place in various locations across saint mary's campus, the student activities board (sab) held a tour Thursday for students to hear the book's different stories in the buildings where they were reported to have occurred. 
sab member sinead hickey said “Quiet hours” was pub­lished in 2002 and written by saint mary's alumnae shelly houser, veronica kessenich and kristen matha. while they were students, they interviewed hundreds of staff, faculty and local residents to put together a collection of stories of different sightings and happenings that transpired on campus. 
“all the stories are about oc­currences which happened on our campus,” hickey said. “This book is not only fun, but it also gives us a little insight into the history and identity of our school." 
hickey said the entertainment committee of sab planned this tour as their main halloween event. 
“This is a fun opportunity for students on campus because it 
Refugee 
conTinued From page 1 
conflict. 
she said many people have a mistaken perception of these refugees. 
“what you see on the news is mostly men and families, [but] this is not the typical case,” bennett said. “you are not seeing the ones left be­hind and those are the most vulnerable ones.” 
many of those left behind are women and children, who make up 80 percent of refu­gees, bennett said. she said despite its history of accept­ing immigrants, the united states has accepted only 249 syrian refugees since the start of the crisis, and any ef­forts to help these refugees have been misleading 
“The [obama] administra­tion has agreed to resettle 100,000 refugees, but this is 100,000 total refugees, not syrian refugees,” bennett said. “syrian refugees are only 10,000 [of these refu­gees], that’s the quota. what you don’t hear is that the quota was higher a few years ago.” 
bennett said notre dame students and faculty have the ability to make a difference by doing things like starting a blanket and sleeping bag drive and using social me­dia to combat “hate websites is an option for a non-drinking halloween event. you can have fun without a drink,” hickey said. “it is a fun way to learn about the ghosts on campus and campus history. 
"part of the saint mary’s iden­tity is the ghosts present on campus.” 
The tour started in the south lounge of regina hall, hickey said. participating students re­ceived a map, which showed three of the dorms on campus — regina hall, le mans hall and holy cross hall — where mem­bers of sab were stationed. 
students then went to the three locations and sab mem­bers read the corresponding sto­ries in “Quiet hours” that took place in each specific hall. 
in regina hall, students heard stories about pianos that played without anyone touching them, doors found inexplicably opened when they were originally locked and mysteriously rippling water in the pool that used to be in the building’s courtyard. 
afterwards, students pro­ceeded to holy cross hall. This dorm was the first building of the college and was previously saint mary’s academy. The book tells stories about a mysterious sighting of a young nun and a large dog in front of the building 
which are displaying erro­neous information and are fueling xenophobia in this countr y.” 
after bennet presented the refugee crisis in num­bers, ahmed gave a personal perspective on the crisis, starting from its beginnings during the arab spring. 
“we thought syria was go­ing to ride out this wave of protests, but an event in march 2011 in a city called daraa where some school children wrote some graffiti [started the conflict],” said ahmed. “[These children were] listening to what they heard on Tv. They wrote, ‘the people want the fall of the regime.’” 
ahmed said the children were captured and tortured by syrian president bashar al-assad’s brother, a security chief in syria. according to ahmed, when the parents of these children asked about their children’s well-being, the security chief said in re­sponse, “go back home and forget about your children, go back and sleep with your wives and make new children. if you do not, i’ll send my men to your wives and help them make new children.” 
ahmed said this response sparked wide-ranging pro­tests in daraa, which the gov­ernment repressed violently. 
“when the first blood was spilled on the street from during a time when only a single, older nun wore a habit, and no nuns owned a dog. 
The book also notes occur­rences of noises being heard in the bathrooms — especially those on the third floor — that sounded like people brushing their teeth or showering when no one was actually there. 
sophomore mackenzie griffin, who participated in the tour, said she believes the stories. 
“i definitely think the ghosts stories on campus are real,” griffin said. “i haven’t experi­enced anything, but there is a lot going on in the bathrooms in holy cross. you’ll hear people walk in and do their nightly rou­tines, but there’s nobody there.” 
The last stop on the tour was le mans hall, where students heard the stories of people from building services finding a child’s hand print on a win­dow, security staff feeling a cold chill in the un-airconditioned stapleton lounge and a student seeing a man in Queen’s court 
— reportedly one of the most haunted hallways in the build­ing — run past her and through a wall during her nightly rounds as a resident assistant. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
these demonstrations, other people took to the street in other cities,” he said. 
ahmed said he decided to take action against the assad regime in response. 
“i could not tell my son i did nothing,” he said. 
however, ahmed said his actions against the regime had dire consequences, and he was forced to leave the countr y. 
“i don’t think we were stu­pid,” ahmed said. “i don’t re­gret — never a moment in my life will i regret — what i did.” 
since being forced to leave syria, ahmed said he has worked to help those affected by the crisis, especially the most vulnerable in this crisis, such as children. 
“This is the tragedy, a lost generation,” ahmed said. “The danger is the time bomb we will face in the future. kids without education feel abandoned and angry. These guys will grow up and have two choices — either beg money, or fight for someone.” 
ahmed also said students at notre dame can help the ref­ugees affected by the crisis. 
“i hope that you will help us in saving this lost genera­tion,” ahmed said. “we want to stop them from being radi­calized and we want them to have hope.” 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 
Votes 
conTinued From page 1 

a lot more like their grand­parents than their parents in terms of their stance on abor­tion,” he said. 
campbell concluded with another exception to the rule: the issue of gun control. campbell said young people “aren’t terribly liberal” on gun control. 
professor of political science darren davis began his speech with the number 12.3 pro­jected on the screen. he said the significance of that num­ber is that african americans comprise 12.3 percent of the american population, a seem­ingly small figure in compari­son to the total population. 
however, davis said african americans can still affect the outcome of the election. 
“we don’t elect our president nationally, we have something that’s called the electoral col­lege,” he said. 
davis said in states with large black populations, 
african-americans  can  im­ 
pact the state election.  
“african-americans  can  

potentially influence 32.9 per­cent of the 270 votes that are needed to win in 2016,” davis said. “ ... This is how race be­comes important in national politics.” 
associate professor of politi­cal science ricardo ramirez devoted his talk to the latino demographic. he said there are a substantial amount of latinos eligible to vote who are not registered. 
“The reality with latinos is that they have potential to im­pact elections if they were to be mobilized,” ramirez said. 
he said the reason for the lack of mobilization of and outreach to latinos who are eligible to vote is a combina­tion “of where they live and the fact that they’re young.” 
most latinos live in non-swing states, he said, which parties and candidates typi­cally ignore. ramirez also said many latinos are young, and young people tend to be on av­erage less politically involved. 
ramirez said he thinks latino voting turnout will in­crease for the 2016 election, largely owing to the fact that they “feel under attack” from donald Trump’s campaign. 
“if latinos associate a cer­tain party with not wanting them who do you think they are going to vote for?” he said. 
The final speaker, associ­ate professor of political sci­ence christina wolbrecht, focused on the implications of women’s voting habits on elec­tions and said there is a larger gender gap in the younger generations. 
however, wolbrecht said the gender gap seems to exist only amongst whites. 
“There isn’t much of a gen­der gap at all with nonwhites,” wolbrecht said. 
wolbrecht said while many would expect issues directly related to women to cause a large gender gap, in reality this is not the case. 
“The truth is that men and women actually don’t vary a great deal in their preference on the kind of issues we usu­ally consider women-specific, such as abortion, equal pay and requiring religious insti­tutions to provide birth con­trol,” wolbrecht said. “where we see bigger differences between men and women is support for the social welfare state.” 
nd votes ’16 is sponsored by the rooney center and notre dame’s center for social concerns.  on nov. 12, nd votes ’16 will hold a student fo­rum as a part of their contin­ued initiative. 
Contact Eddie Damstra at  edamstra@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | The observer 



China 
conTinued From page 1 
said in the email. “it was hoped that notre dame’s ac­tion would encourage other institutions to follow, and that collectively pressure could be put on countries to reform their labor laws.” 
Jenkins said that since no other universities have ad­opted similar policies, and notre dame’s action had no discernable influence on the practices of nations that deny freedom of association, the wpc was created to reevalu­ate the university’s policy. 
“while still holding to the principle that freedom of as­sociation ought to be allowed and independent unions per­mitted, and recognizing that in the people’s republic of china such rights are denied at the level of national laws and practices, the wpc con­sidered whether there might be other criteria we should employ focused on the poli­cies and practices of particu­lar factories,” the email said. 
The committee worked with verite, an internation­ally-recognized non-profit organization, to assess six se­lected chinese factories using a list of 71 criteria. They pro­posed four specific recom­mendations, shared with the notre dame community at a public forum in september. 
“First, that notre dame un­dertake a pilot program with factories that met our stan­dards to see if they sustain a standard of performance ac­ceptable to notre dame, and we can confidently verify such performance,” the email said. 
in addition, the university will work with factories in the area that fell short of their standards to see “if they can improve to an acceptable level.” 
notre dame will also begin evaluating similar factories in other countries that cur­rently manufacture notre dame-licensed products. 
“even with the formal, le­gal right to form and join an independent union, worker participation may be below what is acceptable, and the university can use its lever­age to encourage improve­ment. moreover, the review of factories in different coun­tries could establish a useful benchmark as we deliberate about acceptable standards.” 
The committee also rec­ommended the university review and, as necessary, re­vise the current licensing code of conduct to include a “a richer understanding of worker participation and, in general, that it reflects the best practices and the principles of catholic social teaching.” 
Finally, the committee suggested the formation of a student subcommittee, in addition to continuing campus participation in the conversation. 
in response to calls to re­ject the recommendations, Jenkins analyzed the moral­ity of the policy, concluding that notre dame’s actions would not support or sustain any form of injustice. 
“participation allows us to affirm those factories that have high standards of worker participation, and to encourage other companies to meet these standards,” the email said. “whether this in fact occurs is some­thing about which a pilot program will give us valuable information.” 
according to the email, the pilot program ultimately seeks to promote the full set of workers’ rights recognized by catholic social teaching at a global level. 
“i emphasize that this change in policy in no way signals a lessening of notre dame’s commitment to the full set of workers’ rights rec­ognized by catholic social teaching,” Jenkins said. “on the contrary, with the wpc, we are trying to develop a policy that is as effective as it can be in furthering the recognition of those rights around the world.” 
ALS 
conTinued From page 1 
(als), also referred to as lou gehrig’s disease after the new york yankees baseball player diagnosed with the disease in 1939, is a “progressive neurode­generative disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord,” according to the als association’s website. 
The website says patients liv­ing with als have an average life expectancy of about two to five years following diagnosis. 
sean kassen, the director for academic advancement in the college of science, said the rar­ity and severity of als make walks like the upcoming one at notre dame important in rais­ing awareness and generating interest in research for the dis­ease, which is sometimes over­looked in favor of more prevalent diseases. 
“als is a tough disease to get. it is a scary disease. it is a devas­tating disease; there is no cure,” valley, helped organize a walk through the mid-hudson valley club in 2009 following the loss of one of its members, notre dame ph.d. class of 1970 alumnus gus raspitha, to the disease. 
“when we lost him in the spring of 2009, we decided we re­ally should do something to raise awareness,” mccarthy said. “so our club held this first walk nov. 15 of ’09, of which there were 55 of us walking.” 
The hudson valley walk to defeat als has taken place ev­ery fall since its inception in 2009, and during that time it has grown from 55 individual walk­ers raising nearly $5,000 in 2009 to 147 walk teams raising more than $346,000 in 2014. in total, the walk has raised more than $1 million to benefit support ser­vices, awareness and research for als. 
since they began the hudson valley als walk, members of the notre dame club of mid-hudson valley have been in contact with various people at notre dame about the prospect of holding an on-campus walk, kassen said. 
“They’ve been very big sup­porters of our efforts here with rare disease research, and [mccarthy] has always suggested that we try to do an als walk,” kassen said. “and so once this new [neuroscience] club came up we talked together … i knew this is something he was very pas­sionate about, and so we came to the conclusion that we potential­ly could do this [event]. and that’s when i presented the idea to the neuroscience club.” 
From there, the neuroscience club undertook organizing the walk, which Ferari said he hopes will become the club’s “signature event.” 
This weekend’s walk will span a distance of 2.7 miles, with a stop at the grotto for a short prayer. registration is $10 per person, and snacks and coffee will be available to participants before the walk. 
Ferari said participants are also encouraged to wear costumes in the spirit of halloween. 
so far, kassen said, the event has generated significant interest. 
“every time you do an event for the first time, a lot of it is you’re trying to get people to show up, you’re going to learn sort of on the fly, you have to do all your due diligence ahead of time, you have to make sure all the paperwork is done appropriately and that the correct people at the university know about it,” kassen said. “ … To me, [the walk] has already been a win. people are already signing up and they want to attend.” 
looking toward the future, mccarthy said he hopes the walk will have a real impact in stimu­lating advances in the field of als research. 
“where will this take us on campus?” he asked. “only time will tell, but if history teaches us anything, it could be the start of something big. it’s my desire that the luck and the skill of the irish just might be what can make a significant contribution to solv­ing this mystery.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 
kassen said. “and still there’s not a lot of research that is out there on the direct causes, and hence the potential way to cure it. 
“ … als is a [disease] that largely i would still say people don’t understand, and by doing a walk like this it brings it front and center. it brings more awareness first and foremost.” 
besides raising awareness, Ferari said he hopes the walk will encourage als research at notre dame, where there are currently few people actively involved in als or als-related research. 
among the few at notre dame whose research is relevant to als is biochemistry ph.d. candidate Tiffany snow. snow currently studies the nmda receptor in the brain, which she said has been associated with huntington’s disease, alzheimer’s disease, al­cohol dependence, strokes and als. 
“The receptor i’m working on, very little is known about how it’s behaving and why it behaves in certain ways, and especially 
– what’s more interesting – how and why it behaves under neuro­logical stress or some sort of dis­order,” snow said. 
“This receptor – because it’s in a lot of neurons in the brain and a lot of important areas of the brain 
– when something goes wrong in it, it’s seen in a lot of different dis­orders,” she said. 
To support her research, snow received an als ice bucket challenge fellowship for the 2014­2015 academic year. 
“i think while it might seem in­consequential to look at a certain receptor – just one receptor or maybe one part of that receptor – it’s looking at the little things like that that will answer bigger ques­tions that will affect thousands and tens of thousands of people, potentially, in a lifetime,” snow said. 
although this weekend’s walk is the first of its kind to oc­cur on campus, it is not the first als walk to have a notre dame connection. 
les mccarthy, a notre dame parent and member of the notre dame club of mid-hudson 


paid adverTisemenT The observer |  FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Beyond the stigma 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 

recently, mental illness awareness week was held here on campus. symbolized by the word of life mural’s green glow, the national alliance on mental illness (nami-nd) hosted a number of speakers and coordinated an entire week of events designed to raise awareness and provoke discussion about mental illness throughout cam­pus. nami-nd is assuredly due commendation for its exertion in organizing the week and its events. 
when it comes to conversation concerning mental illness on campus, the most transparent objective typically involves an aim toward exter­minating stigma surrounding mental illness. This objective is undeniably paramount in improving mental health at notre dame, but it is also impor­tant to recognize that de-stigmatizing is just one component of any mission devoted to ameliorat­ing the state of mental health on campus. 
an optimal environment for accommodat­ing mental health on campus is one where all students and faculty not only understand the genuine obstacles that mental illnesses pose for some individuals, but also an environment where everyone has the knowledge and experience to be in the best position possible to provide meaning­ful support to those who may need it. 
additionally, there are numerous benefits to mental health awareness initiatives having objec­tives aimed at educating the public to be prepared on how to act if one of their friends or peers has the courage to be transparent about struggling with their mental health. one of the main hopes of de-stigmatizing mental illness is that it will cultivate an environment where individuals are not ashamed or afraid to seek help. This environ­ment becomes much more effective if the general population is prepared to provide support and (if necessary) get professional assistance involved. obviously, there is no single method appropriate for all situations, but any form of training that increases the preparedness of individuals across campus would be advantageous. 
of course, none of these suggestions are de­signed to mitigate the importance of the de-stig­matizing objective. There is a reason this goal is the cornerstone of most campaigns about mental health awareness. if anything, these additional objectives highlight the importance of de-stig­matizing since, intuitively, a population that has disregard for stigma surrounding mental illness should be more receptive to initiatives targeted toward increasing its knowledge of mental ill­nesses and capacity to assist those who may need support. 
it is clear, however, that de-stigmatizing is often the most translucent component of mental illness awareness campaigns. because this objective can often dominate mental health discussions, it is important to note an optimal state of men­tal health on campus should involve more than just this single goal. ideally, our campus can be an environment where individuals not only are comfortable speaking about mental illnesses they may be struggling with, but one where their peers are also educated about these mental illnesses and prepared to provide beneficial support. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Break the glass 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 

after wednesday’s gop presidential primary debate, i wrote my regular Friday column with a predictable anal­ysis of the debate. by yesterday morning, it was polished and ready to send off (The observer asks i submit my columns by 5 p.m. the day before publishing). however, something else happened that made me scrap the entire column and start over. 
i sat down for lunch yesterday shortly after 1 p.m., pre­pared to study for a quiz in my 2 p.m. class that i hadn’t studied for whatsoever. adding to the concerns over the quiz was the discontent i had for the dining hall at the time due to the removal of the almighty dining tray in an effort to conserve water one day out of the year. upon sitting down, shedding my jacket and grabbing a napkin, i looked up and saw a freshman sitting in the middle of a table alone, obviously emotionally unsettled, choking back tears and not expecting anyone to join her. i noticed others saw the freshman as well, but no one stood to do anything about it. i debated whether i should do any­thing at all. after all, i only had an hour before my quiz for which i was unprepared, and i certainly wasn’t the right person to comfort the young student, but i eventu­ally stood and did something about it anyway. 
i walked over to the freshman, asked if she wanted to sit with anyone and invited her to join me. after sitting down together, i introduced myself and asked what had been bothering her and to tell me a bit about herself. That’s when i learned she was a freshman who had had a particularly rough week. classes had come back with a vengeance after fall break, and she didn’t feel at home in the friend group she had formed since august. she felt totally alone and just needed to release some tears. i had forgotten how stressful life might be as a freshman. over the last three-and-a-half-years, i had come to call this place home with supportive friends and faculty. i asked when she had last called home, and she told me she had done so that morning. The student missed her mom and couldn’t wait to go home for Thanksgiving and christmas. i hadn’t realized how lucky i was to never be homesick over these last few years. That isn’t to say i don’t love going home and spending time with my family, but i found a home in those around me at notre dame, and i was normally too busy to think about going home. after our brief conversation, the freshman’s tears had subsided and a smile appeared, and she headed off to prepare for a project. 
The last thing i want is for this column to be perceived as some sort of pat-on-the-back for helping out a fellow student in need. if anything, it should bring condem­nation for me rather than commendation; it should bring criticism because i hesitated to do anything at all at first. There i was, so concerned with a quiz that i nearly missed out on fulfilling what, i believe, was and is a moral obligation. how often do we nearly miss out on the things that matter, such as helping and uplifting one another? how often do we fail to consider the plight of others because we have something in front of us that requires immediate attention? 
i encourage anyone reading this to be mindful of those around you and react when your help is needed. never mind the inconveniences or the concern that you aren’t prepared to handle the situation of a stranger — you are prepared enough. if you’re on the other end of this situ­ation and you’re going through hard times, don’t worry about inconveniencing another; just seek out a friend who is willing to listen. sometimes life can feel as if you are looking at others through a window or a television screen, their lives unaffected by yours and yours unaf­fected by theirs. regardless of the side of glass you feel you’re on at the time, looking out or looking in, my chief suggestion is this: don’t hesitate to break the glass. don’t hesitate for even a moment as i did. 
now, as i write this column quickly to make my 5 p.m. Thursday deadline, immediately after taking that quiz, which i likely would have done better on had i chosen to study for that extra period of time, i only regret i didn’t react faster for that freshman and that i didn’t provide an email address for an open medium for the venting of stress. if she is reading this, or anyone who just wants to vent in the confidence of a fellow student you don’t actu­ally know, my email address is below. send me a mes­sage. i guarantee i won’t hesitate this time. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying accountancy. He welcomes any challenges to his opinions and can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
response to “infants charge” 
i read steve sweeney’s letter “infant charge” in Tuesday’s edition of The observer with interest. like steve, my wife and i are both 2006 graduates, and i’m also a legacy student who enjoys the chance to come back and cheer on the irish every year. my first daughter was born in 2013, and when we made plans to come to that year’s navy game, i was at first indignant over the infant charge. $80 for a three-month old? notre dame’s avarice knows no bounds. not wanting to subject our daughter to poor weath­er or buy her the most expensive nap of her life, we got a sitter. 
now that i have a second daughter and have come to three home games without them (including this year’s Texas game), i’ve realized notre dame stadium isn’t like the other venues steve described for two reasons. First, most professional sports teams’ stadiums have individual seats where there is plenty of room on a lap. notre dame stadium does not — the crowded benches often hardly leave room for me, much less my children. Those stadi­ums often have extensive lounges, facilities, heated apparel shops and the like for parents whose chil­dren need a respite from the weather. notre dame stadium does not. 
secondly, and i think more importantly, there is no feasible way to enforce a two-year age limit. airlines have plenty of time at check-in to enforce their policy. Theme parks can take the time at the admissions gate — there’s no rush to get in. yet in the 30 minutes preceding kickoff, 80,000 fans have to get in the stadium, often in poor weather. it’s hardly the place for checking birth certificates. 
which, of course, would be necessary. with the face-value ticket prices accelerating yearly and the secondary market skyrocketing, you mean to tell me some fans wouldn’t try to pass their three- or four-year-old off as a two-year-old? with that kind of economic incentive, i wouldn’t blame them. i’m sure most fans wouldn’t want to be the ones get­ting that kid’s sneakers in the back every time c.J. prosise runs for a first down. 
The real problem here is not the infant policy, it’s the ticket prices, which have quintupled since i went to my first game. were the prices more reason­able, i wouldn’t mind paying to bring my daugh­ters for part of the game, but the $500 price tag for my family of four this year was simply too high. Families with children of any age should be out­raged. no doubt the university is merely keeping pace with its competitors and other entertainments, but it makes it a lot harder on alumni families who want to bring their children back to wake up the echoes. 
Dan Reynolds 
class of 2006, ace class of 2008 oct. 28 


Starting from zero 
April Feng 
storyTime 

i started my junior year prepared. on the first night of the semester, my roommates and i opened a huge bottle of diet coke celebrating the fact that we were finally not starting from zero. indeed, with six jobs, two majors, 19 academic credits, many close friends and a sense of familiarity, i firmly believed this year would be the time for me to shine, to excel, to change the world. i was so ready to take my first step on this amazing journey. 
i never expected my first fall would occur in the do­main most familiar to me: writing. as a columnist for The observer and a writing tutor, i always consider writing as my strength. Two weeks into the semester, i received my first grade for an essay assignment. i was a little bit surprised when the professor called me into his office and kindly reminded me that my writing was “problematic.” one week after that unfortunate inci­dent, i got another paper back with the professor sug­gesting i should consider rewriting the essay because i did not closely follow the requirements listed on the prompt. i was shaken and alarmed. as a result, as i start­ed my third essay assignment, i chose the easiest topic 
— comparing the theories of hobbes and locke — and gave up the other four more interesting but riskier ones. i carefully examined my understanding of the two philos­ophers, avoided all the nuances in their respective theo­ry, made sure that the logic was consistent and checked my spelling three times. i remember walking into the sun after turning in the paper and thinking to myself: you did everything you possibly could do. Things would change this time. Two weeks after, i got it back. i saw my professor’s comments on the margin: you have a good understanding of the two theories, but your thesis is too conservative. you explain the two theories quite well, but you are not arguing for anything. next time, take some risks and try to work on a more challenging thesis. Jacqueline novogratz, one of the most recognizable fig­ures in international development, once said, “They say a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. i took mine and fell flat on my face.” six weeks into the semester, i had already taken a few courageous steps, but i fell on each and every one of them. i failed at every attempt to live up to my own expectations. 
profoundly disappointed with myself, i talked with my mom, complaining that my constant efforts only result­ed in constant failures. i was not receiving satisfactory grades. i was having a writing crisis. i was not getting enough sleep, because i simply did not have the time for it. “it should not be like this,” i concluded with frus­trating tears, “i am already a junior, for heaven’s sake. i should already have my life together!” out of nowhere, my mom said, “That’s too bad. i can see that you lost your humbleness.” “what do you mean? i am humbled, like, every single day.” “no, you are simply sad and dis­appointed. you are not humbled.” 
before i could argue back, my mom, like many chinese parents, started to repeat the important role of humbleness in ancient chinese culture and warned me against the serious dangers of losing it. i shut up, know­ing she would probably go on for another hour up in the metaphysical clouds without offering any tangible solution to my situation. in the end, however, my mother did offer a solution: “This might sound weird, but i hope somebody can destroy something for you, and then you will understand.” 
much confused and a bit terrified, i directly went to the grotto after the talk. i sat on the bench for a long time, hoping that destruction, no matter in what form, would never come. 
and of course, it came. 
it was 2 a.m. and i was still working on a paper in the library. it was the seventh attempt of the semester to regain my confidence in writing. i started two weeks before and had already done much research and talked with my Ta about it. Though she suggested i change my thesis into a more challenging one, i chose to stick with the original draft. starting from zero sounded like a strategy too risky for me, and by the way, i never wanted to lose anything i had, especially given that i have al­ready lost too much in the last six weeks. as i reached the conclusion part of my eight-page paper, i reminded my­self once again that i needed to include every single nec­essary element of “good academic writing”: a summary of my argument, counterargument, the “so-what move­ment” and … pzzz. The words disappeared. The music stopped. i saw my own face on the screen: a shocked, terrified and hopeless one. my computer had crashed. 
Five seconds later, i recovered from the shock and finally figured out what just happened. my first reaction was frantically trying to reopen my computer. i con­nected it to the power source. didn’t work. i kept press­ing the power button for more than two minutes. didn’t work. i even talked to it, begging it to come alive again. didn’t work. everything was gone, just like that. i packed all my things and walked out of the library, numb with grief and confusion. 
it is funny. i had been extremely afraid of destruction ever since my mom mentioned it, yet while walking across god Quad with all my essays and problem sets gone, i was calmer than ever. since i could not work on the essay, check if my professor had updated our newest grade for problem set five or open the calendar to see my must-do list for the next day, i simply wandered around campus without a plan. This undesirable accident had forced me to start from zero again, and it felt like fresh­man year. 
as an international student, i had to learn every single thing when i first came here. i had to learn what theol­ogy is. i had to learn what a counterargument was. i had to learn about american popular Tv shows. i had to learn about when to laugh and when not. i had to learn about how to use a knife and fork. i was never afraid to ask for help, because i knew i was ignorant. Failure was the norm of my life. when i failed, i just learned how to stand up. The habit of learning made everything so easy to accept. nothing was ever dreadful. Then it suddenly occurred to me that despite the constant failures, the grinding process of learning everything, the sense of strangeness i had whenever i walked on campus, i was very happy every day as a freshman. it came from the courage to start from zero and the acceptance i had to learn everything on the journey. all of a sudden, i real­ized i had not enjoyed the happiness of being humble for a long time. The crash of my computer 20 minutes ago, a destruction which my mom had long been hoping would occur, forced me to start anew and empowered me to once again be humble. 
Just give up the fight tonight and start everything from zero tomorrow. it is not that dreadful, i told myself. 
The next morning, i successfully opened my comput­er. everything came back. The essay assignment i was working on the night before was still there: eight pages, single space, with a thesis not so challenging but easy to defend. 
i smiled and dragged it to the trash box. empty trash. 
i was finally humble enough to start from zero again. 
it felt so good. 

Dan (April) Feng is a junior political science and economics double major. She is from Beijing, China, and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lessons learned at The observer 
Sara Felsenstein 
guest columnist 

late nights. early mornings. not enough coffee in the world to keep you awake during that morning calculus class. it’s a story most college newspaper editors know well but would never change. we’re willing to put in the hours not only because of the close-knit community, one of the biggest draws, but because the skills you learn working for a college newspaper are invaluable across professional indus­tries. here are five reasons why. 
You meet a wide range of people 
college is a bubble, but working on the paper ex­poses you to a wide range of people and viewpoints. during my four years on The observer at notre dame, i interviewed a british literary scholar, the chief marketing officer of subway, the university president and the only orthodox Jewish student on campus. reaching beyond the bubble has huge value later on in the working world. 
appreciated this approach in my classes, criticism is an unavoidable aspect of the professional world and life in general. my freshman year, i remember the first article i received back from my editor was com­pletely covered in red ink, entire sections crossed out. i probably went home and cried that night, but soon learned not take things so personally (and that criticism helps you improve). 
You master the art of succinct writing 
i used to think the phrase “writing is an art” meant i could use an unlimited number of words to make things sound beautiful. now i believe that regardless of the writing form, every single word needs to have a purpose. working on the paper taught me to boil down stories to their very core, write conversationally and include only the most powerful quotes. all of this prepared me well for a career in digital media. 
You get comfortable leading conversations 
most people love talking about themselves. once you learn that, asking questions and leading conver­pursue contacts and ask the tougher questions. 
You learn to work well under pressure 
some of my most stressful days in college, i was under deadline for an article on the same day i had a major test. i spent free moments calling sources and writing while simultaneously trying to memo­rize history or statistics formulas. The observer demanded everything of you, and you had to figure out how not to let your grades slip. it took years, but i learned to stay calm and trust that everything would get done (and that the world wouldn’t end if it didn’t). 
i loved being an english major at notre dame. but truthfully, none of my classes stand out to me years later the way my days and nights spent in The observer office do. while i nurtured my love for lit­erature through my major, the newspaper that gave me the hands-on, practical education i needed to jump into the real world after graduation. 
in the end, i’m thankful for the sleepless nights and overconsumption of chocolate. The observer was the best (free) course i took at notre dame. 
You get used to criticism 

most professors at notre dame weren’t out­wardly critical of my writing, focusing on what i could do better instead of what i did wrong. while i 
sations isn’t all that hard. when i started out as a re­porter, i was scared to even place a call to a stranger. i read and reread my emails 10 times before request­ing an interview. but with experience, i gained the confidence to assert myself during interviews, 
Sara Felsenstein can be reached at  sfelsens@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT MUNHALL 
scene writer 

“it’s not so easy writing about nothing.” 
That is the declaration that opens “m Train,” the new memoir from the mu­sician and writer patti smith. Those words are relayed to her by a cowboy in a dream, but they also serve as a guiding force for the book. “m Train” isn’t about nothing per se, but smith is more con­cerned with capturing her inner state than giving a play-by-play of the pivotal events of her life. interiority is favored over traditional narrative, attempting to give the reader a glimpse inside the mind of the godmother of punk. 
while smith’s previous memoir, “Just kids,” documented her relationship with the artist robert mapplethorpe, “m Train” is centered on solitude. again and again throughout the book, smith writes of going to her beloved cafe ‘ino in greenwich village and sitting down at “her table” to write, accompanied only by her usual order of black coffee, brown toast and olive oil. in smith’s hands, this quotidian act becomes a ritual that verges on the spiritual. 
smith has called the book “a roadmap to my life,” and she populates it with sur­real dreams, memories of her late hus­band Fred “sonic” smith, travel diaries and reflections on her writing process. but she bestows the most reverence on the artists she adores, especially writers, who become saintly figures in her mind. smith seems especially fascinated by visiting the graves of her literary heroes, including arthur rimbaud, sylvia plath and Jean genet. on these pilgrimages smith frequently brings talismans — a string of beads for genet, stones from a French guiana prison for genet — as signs of her devotion. 
There is a spiritual dimension not only to smith’s idolization of certain artists, but to the very act of reading itself. in one chapter she recounts a period of in­tense obsession with the Japanese sur­realist writer haruki murakami. smith recalls spending several weeks fixated on the abandoned house at the cen­ter of murakami’s novel “The wind-up bird chronicle,” wondering whether the property is real or imagined. she even considers that she could “just inno­cently meet him for coffee where portals connect” in order to find out the answer. she later leaves the novel in an airport and despairs over having lost the “mas­cot of [her] resurging energy.” in smith’s world, books have the immense power to revive one’s spirit. 
smith holds a similar romantic view of the crime procedurals she loves, which include “law & order,” “csi: miami” and “The killing.” even the act of watch­ing these shows becomes its own kind of ritual. at one point, when smith’s con­necting flight home through london is delayed, she decides to check into a hotel and spend all day and night in her room watching british detective shows. The sense of the mystical is reinforced when she runs into an actor from one of these dramas in the hotel bar. “yesterday’s po­ets are today’s detectives,” she declares 
— speaking to how seriously she takes her favorite detective shows. 
i was compelled by the web of cul­tural references smith weaves in “m Train,” even when many of her literary references were unfamiliar to me. she seems aware this might be the case with many readers, but insists it is fun­damental to the way she conceptual­izes herself. “writers and their books. i cannot assume the reader will be famil­iar with them all, but in the end is the reader familiar with me?” smith asks, after discussing the german writer w.g. sebald’s “after nature.” “i can only hope, as i offer my world on a platter filled with allusions.” 
i think smith is correct in her hope that these allusions are revealing. part of this is my misguided belief that if i read murakami with a similar intensity i will somehow tap into the swagger she em­bodies on the album cover of “horses,” clutching her suspenders and black jack­et slung over her shoulder. i could watch every episode of every crime procedural and i wouldn’t become patti smith. 
nonetheless, the art that is important to us — especially the works that move us so deeply as to regard them with an almost religious intensity — becomes a part of how we experience the world. smith’s love of crime dramas isn’t purely for their entertainment value. For her, there is a resonance to be found between herself and these “detective inspec­tors whose moodiness and obsessive natures mirrored [her] own.” when art connects with us on such a deep level, it can speak to our personal experiences and affirm our feelings as valid and real. 
it is for similar reasons that i have re­cently become obsessed with crybabies, a podcast hosted by new yorker writer susan orlean and the actress sarah Thyre. orlean and Thyre invite guests on their show to talk about the films, plays, songs and other moments that bring them to tears. guests on past crybabies episodes have included many art­ists i idolize: comedians amy poehler, Julie klausner, Jason mantzoukas and Jenny slate; writers Tavi gevinson and hilton als; “mad men” creator matthew weiner. 
while the concept behind the show is great, it only works because of how vul­nerable their guests allow themselves to be about why certain works affect them so deeply. on a recent episode, gevinson discussed the song “These days” by nico and its use in one of the most memorable scenes from “The royal Tenenbaums.” she said the song brings her back to watching the film for the first time as a young teenager. gevinson eloquently describes how the song fills her with nostalgia for that time in her life and evokes a “real chemical reaction” in her. 
on another fantastic episode, megan amram, who wrote for the sitcom “parks and recreation,” discusses a short ex­change between leslie and ron dur­ing the show’s final season. leslie asks, “why would anybody ever eat anything besides breakfast food?” to which ron responds, “people are idiots, leslie.” amram talks about how the scene chan­nels all the emotions she felt as the show came to an end earlier this year — both the joy of having worked in such a great environment, but also the sadness over the death of fellow “parks and rec” writ­er harris wittels. 
listening to the podcast, i was in­credibly moved by these two moments in particular. gevinson and amram so eloquently speak to the ways in which art can be shaped by personal experi­ence. The podcast as a whole is all about art at its most affecting — when it pro­vokes a visceral emotional reaction. critical distance is fine, but art is really at its most powerful when it becomes so deeply embedded within our lives and our memories. both “m Train” and crybabies share this profound belief that the art that moves us becomes an intertwined part of us. and those dis­cussions aren’t really “about nothing” at all. 
Contact Matt Munhall at                mmunhall@nd.edu 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

Editor’s Note: This article is a continua­tion of Nick Laureano’s piece of the same name that ran in yesterday’s edition. 
set the time circuits to February 2010 and hit 88 mph. “The king’s speech” — a film that is decent in every possible sense of the word — beat “The social network” for oscar gold. as a startling portrait of egotism, jealousy and betrayal that cap­tured the ethos of the internet genera­tion, “The social network” is one of the best films of this decade. it truly earns comparisons to films like “citizen kane” and “rashomon.” everything about “The social network” — its screenplay, act­ing, directing, editing, cinematography, sound design, literally all of it — is sharp­er than “The king’s speech.” it is not, however, a feel-good story about a histor­ical hero à la “The king’s speech.” rather, it is a portrait of a modern antihero that leaves its viewers with a cynical outlook on the state of modern culture. like pe­riod settings, serious tones and claims of historical truth, happy endings seem to score points with oscar voters these days, as the last truly startling film to win best picture was 2007’s “no country For old men.” 
earlier that February night, colin Firth snagged the best actor award for his en­tirely adequate portrayal of george vi, england’s stuttering king at the center of “The king’s speech.” sure, Firth’s stut­ter was convincing, but the portrayal as a whole felt hermetically sealed. despite recurring allusions to the king’s child­hood woes, one never got the feeling that Firth’s george ever existed beyond the beginning and end of the film. Firth’s 
Lena Madison 
scene writer 

everyone wants what they don’t have, right? actually, that’s not always true, especially when you consider the natu­ral hair movement of the 21st century. black men and women across the united states have chosen to rock their curls as opposed to chemically altering their hair to straighten it or wearing “safe” and “acceptable” hairstyles. cultural an­thropologists started to notice the black community shifting to natural hair in the early 2000s, and this trend is quickly becoming a norm. 
why does hair matter? hair matters because it is read like a text. you can learn a lot about the person sitting in front of you in class based on their hair. did they just roll out of bed? how long has it been since they showered? gross, but it’s true — hair gives us a lot of in­formation about another person. on a deeper level, hair is even a racial and technical mastery of george’s manner­isms was impressive; but in so diligently imitating the actual king, one sensed that Firth squandered an opportunity to imbue the role with any of his own personality. 
some of the all-time great screen per­formances depict real people — peter o’Toole’s turn as T.e. lawrence comes to mind. but, as scott anderson noted in his “word & Film” article “what’s right and wrong in ‘lawrence of arabia,’” o’Toole and the makers of “lawrence of arabia” were criticized by many histori­ans for taking artistic liberties with their portrayal of lawrence. rather than de­pict a patriotic war hero, o’Toole paints lawrence as an antihero with a temper. The result for anderson is a film that trades historical accuracy for profound emotional truth. i couldn’t agree more — that’s what great acting is all about. Firth was merely playing at imitation. 
consider eddie redmayne. he snagged the oscar this past year for contorting his body for two hours in “The Theory of everything.” on his way to the stage, he stepped over michael keaton (full disclo­sure: i cried when keaton lost). whereas redmayne’s performance as stephen hawking was mostly preoccupied with imitating hawking’s crippled posture, keaton’s was all truth. despite what keaton has said in interviews, his perfor­mance as riggan Thomson in “birdman” was clearly informed by his own life. perhaps only keaton, a man who left a blockbuster franchise only to drift into relative obscurity for the second half of his career, could have played riggan, a man who left a blockbuster franchise only to drift into absolute obscurity. even keaton’s role in an ambitious film like 
gender signifier. our identity is mixed into our hair just as much as fruity-tutti­smelling conditioner. 
we can thank the black activists of the 60s and 70s for laying the groundwork for ‘hair reform’ by gracing the world with the space-filling afro, which has come back as a popular culture phenomenon. women and men all over the world are following suit and wearing their hair “natural.” natural hair is more than “just a way to wear hair,” it’s a way to fight the pressure to assimilate to an unrealistic standard of beauty. 
This movement is inspiring critical cultural work concerning beauty stan­dards. For a long time, straight hair has been a key component to being beauti­ful because it is rare to see celebrities or billboards promoting naturally curly hair. Think of victoria’s secret model’s hair flowing in the wind as the unrealis­tic standard for most people across racial boundaries. From an advertising stand­point, images of natural-haired beauties are starting to pop-up in advertisements “birdman” parallels riggan’s role in his audacious stage adaptation of raymond carver’s “what we Talk about when we Talk about love.” keaton’s pure candor in “birdman” made his performance braver and more emotionally resonant than redmayne’s imitation of hawking. redmayne put almost nothing personal on the line; keaton threw his whole life down on table. 
perhaps it is because these imita­tion pictures keep winning awards that hollywood keeps making them, even though all so-called prestige pictures are something of a financial gamble for the studios. enter “steve Jobs.” directed by danny boyle from a script by aaron sorkin (“west wing,” “social network”), “steve Jobs” plays like, well, a play. its three acts depict the moments leading up to three product launches: apple’s macintosh in 1984, the neXTcube in 1988 and apple’s imac in 1998. lots of sorkinisms are deployed: characters walk and talk; characters break into ver­bal violence at inappropriate times and places; and michael Fassbender’s Jobs is constantly talking about two or more different things and expecting those around him to keep up. 
The entire film takes place while Jobs is getting dressed for presentations, so not much actually happens. rather, sorkin fills this liminal space with weighty dialogue about what has hap­pened (“she’s not my child!”) and what will happen (“it will be the most tecton­ic shift in the status quo since — ” “since ever.” it’s a crack marketing squad that put that line in every trailer, subtlety be damned). The narrative mechanics might not yield much in the way of story, but they do allow Fassbender to strut his 
by dove and pantene. There is nothing wrong with straight hair, but the point is that curly hair should be embraced in its bouncy glory too. 
This specifically matters for the black community. by carrying out this move­ment, beauty standards are not changed but opened up to more standards. if black curly hair can continue to go mainstream, many people will no lon­ger feel the pressure to straighten their hair. some people believe straightening curly hair makes it more manageable. This is not true, however, as chemicals and hot tools used to straighten hair can be detrimental to your health and your checkbook. 
in most cases, the chemical perming agent of choice is ammonium thiogly­colate solution. if this perming solution is kept in the hair too long, it can lead to burnt skin, broken hair and a lot of tears. The tears might also come from the burn in a person’s pocket after paying up $50­75 for a perm every four to six weeks. going natural is a cheaper alternative to stuff as Jobs. nevertheless, Jobs comes off as a silicon valley demagogue, rather than the visionary he so often claims to be. 
Fassbender doesn’t look at all like steve Jobs, but in his assumed posture and voice, one gets the sense that he is trying to. he mostly excels in a role that requires him to move from one over-the-top verbal confrontation to another, briefly meditating on past events in be­tween each oral bout. The performance is sound, but sorkin’s stunted portrait of Jobs is unreceptive to even Fassbender’s attempts to breath life into the role. he and those around him are constantly talking about events that occurred be­tween each of these product launches, yet all these events feel like narrative artifice rather than things that actually happened. The film’s subtitle ought to be “stuff happened that you don’t get to see but hey, you get to hear about it, so there’s that.” remember in “The social network” when we actually got to see the things the characters were talking about? 
well that got rather preachy. don’t worry: i’m not one to complain with­out offering a solution. The good news is hollywood is a business. since it is ultimately the consumer’s money that foots the bill, we hold all the power. so “tl;dr”: don’t go see any movies between october and december because they’re all unimaginative garbage and we ought to teach hollywood a lesson. maybe someday we’ll even see a movie about our triumph over hollywood. wait a minute … 
Contact Nick Laureano at                   nlaurean@nd.edu 
hairstyling as products associated with it cost $10-15 and can last as long as a perm. These examples shed light on the practicality of natural hair and make it an option to consider. 
The natural hair movement is about redefining beauty in relation to hair within the black community. This move­ment builds community and fosters bonds through the sharing of the latest hair secrets and styles. The versatility of curls on the heads of black people is paving a way toward greater acceptance and understanding of ourselves and even each other. The power of wearing your hair in the natural state is empowering to women and men not only in the u.s., but also globally. There is something cosmic about embracing what you do have and not worrying about what you don’t. 
Contact Lena Madison at lmadison@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

coming to grips with the royals 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
The kansas city royals are two games away from winning the world series, and they’ll have five chances — if they need that many — to get it done. 
i still don’t think i’m okay with this. 
yes, i understand the fun nar­rative the team has created. The royals were for so many years a ragtag bunch of misfits 
— save carlos beltran — full of “aaaa” players who’d make sportscenter’s “not Top 10” list more often than they’d make its more positive counterpart. 
it’s a fan base that’s suffered a lot, and certainly one that de­serves the team they’ve found themselves cheering for. it’s an energetic group of players that complements the recent pas­sion brought by royals fans to kaufmann stadium, and one that is, generally speaking, a lik­able crew. 
but i still can’t fathom living in a world where the royals are the best team in baseball. nope. 
why am i a hater? 
well, let’s start at the top, with royals manager ned yost, who i’m pretty sure is an idiot mas­querading as a successful base­ball manager. Time and time again, he makes puzzling deci­sions, like leaving a non-roster spring training invitee, ryan madson, in the game a week ago to face José bautista with the game on the line instead of brining in closer wade davis — who was warm in the bullpen 
— to get an extended save. 
madson missed his down-and-away spot, and unsurpris­ingly, bautista deposited the ball in the bleachers to tie the game in the top of the eighth. 
of course, lorenzo cain won game six and the alcs, for the royals in the bottom of the same inning when he scored from first on a single to right field, because these are the fluky things that happen to kansas city these days. 
related: blown ball-strike calls in a 2-1 game with the ty­ing run 90 feet away for Toronto also happen to benefit the royals these days, it seems, which was a little annoying. 
or maybe it’s silly things like eric hosmer’s bat flip on his walk-off sacrifice fly early wednesday morning to win the first game of the world series, or ... 
actually, nah. 
it’s time to look in the mirror and admit it: i’m simply a bitter, beleaguered cleveland sports fan who’s tired of seeing the perennial al central last-place team suddenly in back-to-back world series. 
look, here’s the thing: a year ago, the royals snuck into the playoff via the wild card game and back-doored their way into the “real” postseason thanks to a come-from-behind win over oakland. 
That’s where it should’ve stopped. Twelve months ago, the royals weren’t that good of a baseball team — and one i was certain was worse than my be­loved indians, who missed the playoffs after underperforming. 
but, of course, kansas city pulled out 10 more wins the rest of that postseason and found it­self hosting game seven of the world series for all the marbles. 
For my sanity, i’m glad they came up short. 
This year the story changed, however. i finally can admit the royals are a “good” team. 
but i still can’t convince my­self they’re befitting of the title “world champions.” 
The cardinals? a much bet­ter team this year. same thing with pittsburgh, who won 98 games and then got bounced by a suddenly-hot pitcher in a one-game playoff. The coming demise of Jake arrieta is going to be a real enjoyable thing, by the way. 
if the royals can find a way to get the last two wins — and let’s face it, they should at this point 
— i’ll be happy for my friend who’s from kansas city. 
but i’m still going to struggle to come to grips with the idea of the royals being the best team in baseball. 
The royals are supposed to be that team that always screws up, a team an indians fan like me can count on for 15 wins ev­ery season. 
so, mets: please. help. 
Find some way to save this. 
because i’d much rather ad­
mit you’re the best team in baseball than have to finally admit it’s the royals. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NBA | Timberwolves 112, lakers 111 
Timberwolves storm back in emotional win 
Associated Press 

los angeles — with heavy hearts and occupied minds, the minnesota Timberwolves hung on to win one for Flip. 
ricky rubio had a career-high 28 points and 14 assists and the Timberwolves rallied from a 16-point deficit in the second half to beat the los angeles lakers 112-111 wednesday night in their first game since Flip saunders’ death. 
when lou williams some­how missed a 4-foot runner at the buzzer, minnesota hugged and celebrated a fortunate break in a cathartic victory. kevin martin scored 23 points for the Timberwolves three days after they lost saunders, the longtime coach and team president who battled hodgkin’s lymphoma. 
“i think we had a little help today,” rubio said. “it’s been a tough week. it’s hard to explain. everybody went through a lot of pain. but even though Flip’s gone, he will stay with us forever.” 
saunders’ recent death and a pregame moment of silence put both teams in a somber mood in their season opener. both wore warmup shirts honoring the coach. The Timberwolves’ shirts bore the slogan “we,” while the lakers’ said “Flip.” 
minnesota led 111-102 with 
2:11 left, but the lakers fin­ished on a 9-1 run. williams hit a 3-pointer with 31 seconds left to trim minnesota’s lead to one point. martin missed a jumper before williams missed his leaner. 
“we stayed together as a team, something that we’ve been doing a lot this week,” said karl-anthony Towns, who had 14 points and 12 rebounds in his nba debut. “(we’re) work­ing together as a family and doing a great job of keeping his vision alive. we just seemed to have coach saunders on our side, especially with lou williams shooting a floater for the game. nine times out of 10, he hits that. but i think we had a sixth man on the floor.” 
kevin garnett had four points and seven rebounds to begin his 21st nba season, becoming just the third player in league history to last that long. garnett, who was persuaded to return to minnesota by saunders last sea­son, left the locker room without speaking to reporters. 
kobe bryant scored 24 points in the first game of his 20th season with the lakers, breaking John stockton’s nba record for the most seasons with one team. bryant largely appeared to be his usual spry and aggressive self in his first game since January after his third straight season ended early due to injury, but he missed his final eight shots down the stretch as minnesota rallied. 
“That timing will come back,” bryant said. “i haven’t played in a minute.” 
williams scored 21 points in his first game with los angeles. The lakers returned from the worst season in fran­chise history with a taste of their potential, but more dis­appointment when williams’ shot missed. 
“when i let it go, i thought it was a bucket,” williams said. “it’s a routine play for me.” 

NHL | avalanche 2, lighTning 1 
Avalanche overcomes four-game losing streak 
Associated Press 

Tampa, Fla. — alex Tanguay and nathan mackinnon each had a goal and an assist, semyon varlamov made 34 saves and the colorado avalanche beat the Tampa bay lightning 2-1 on Thursday night to end a four-game losing streak. 
varlamov won his 108th game with the avalanche and moved past dan bouchard into second place on the fran­chise wins list. Jarome iginla had two assists to move past phil housley (1,232) into sole possession of 38th place with 1,233 points in his career. 
Tampa bay, coming off a 1-1-2 road trip, got a goal from alex killorn. 
Tanguay opened the 

FOR SALE 

Executive family home in the country on 10 acres, finished pole barn, 5 bed 3 ½ bath, Edwardsburg schools, 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,900 
scoring during a goal-mouth scramble with 4:03 left in the first. a no-goal call on the ice was overturned after a video review. 
The avalanche made it 2-0 with 6:56 left in the second after iginla sent a pass from behind net off goalie ben bishop that mackinnon put into the net from in-close. 
mackinnon has five goals and 10 points in five games against the lightning. 
killorn got the lightning within 2-1 during a power play with 4:14 left in the sec­ond. it ended a scoreless stretch of 156 minutes, 3 sec­onds for Tampa bay, which had consecutive road shut­out losses at chicago and st. louis. 
varlamov stopped a short-handed breakaway shot late in the first by valtteri Filppula. The goalie also made a save on ondrej palat’s breakaway early in the third. 
noTes: colorado coach patrick roy is 1-1-1 in road games at Tampa bay. he nev­er won a road game as a goalie against the lightning during his hall of Fame playing ca­reer, going 0-7-1. ... lightning lw Jonathan drouin was a late scratch with a lower-body injury. ... Tampa bay c cedric paquette missed his second straight game due to an ankle injury. ... lightning c brian boyle returned after missing three games with an undisclosed injury. ... Tampa bay recalled c Jonathan marchessault from syracuse of the ahl. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
I know now, it ain’t right if you ain’t 
WANTED 

lost your mind. Yeah, I don’t want easy, I want crazy. Are you with me High School Geometry tutor. baby? Let’s be crazy. Yeah. I wan-Flexible hours. Call 574-360-6910 na be scared, don’t wanna know why. The world makes all kinds of Who cares if you’re all I think rules for love; I say you gotta let it 
about? I’ve searched the world and do what it does. 

recuperate properly and we playoffs,” peterson said. “we pass-heavy team,” requet “The best part of the season 
Interhall 

can get everyone out there. need to make sure we take said. “but we’ve started to has definitely been the high 
conTinued From page 16 

we just need to come out it one game at a time if we implement a power running level of cohesion of the entire 
and play, on both sides of want to get to the stadium.” attack to pick up some yard-team, across the offense and offense. This week, the the ball, and we’ll win the with each game in the age to take the pressure off defense and along with our griffins (4-0) will start a game.” playoffs being a win-or-our air attack.” coaches. The atmosphere new quarterback, freshman The griffins and the green go-home situation, both morrissey (3-1) features a has been really fun — i think chase Jennings, while mov-wave will kick off at 2:15 captains said they were fo-strong ground game, spear-that’s greatly contributed to ing their current quarter-p.m. at riehle Fields. cused on each teams’ keys to headed by sophomore cap-our success so far.” back — sophomore andrew victory. tain and quarterback declan another of Farley’s co-Foster — to receiver. Contact Dominic Ianelli at “i think the key to win-Zidar and senior running captains, senior rose-marie 
babiak said the griffins rianell@nd.edu ning against howard is to back hunter white, who has mazanek, said she was par-are experimenting and mov-stay focused,” kaes said. eclipsed the 100-yard mark ticularly excited for this ing around their talent in or-No. 2 Howard vs. No. 7 “every team plays a different multiple times this season. matchup. der to generate more on the Cavanaugh game, and the key is going to requet said the otters have “This will definitely be a offensive side of the football. be learning and adapting to prepared to contain that great match up between a 
By JOE EVERETT 

“we are just trying it out,” sports writer how howard plays quickly at running game. great offense and defense. babiak said. “our current the beginning of the game, “The main focus this week really two great teams over-quarterback is a great ath-in the first round of the and then go on to dominate has been stopping the run all,” mazanek said. “i feel lete so we’re trying to think playoffs, no. 2 howard will from there”. and being disciplined,” like the key to success is of different ways to dynami-take on no. 7 cavanaugh, For howard, peterson said requet said. “we know that coming out strong in the cally use him.” with both teams excited the key will be a bit simpler. morrissey has a strong run-first series for both our of-
when asked what the green for what the playoffs might “[it’s] just playing how we ning attack and is always fense and defense and mak­wave (2-2) need to do to slow hold. know how to play,” peterson well prepared each week.” ing sure that we are playing down the griffins, massey The ducks, with a record of said. sorin (2-1-1) has more to our game.” said it will come down to 5-1 on the season, boast the The ducks and the chaos prove this season, but that is on sunday, Farley and Fisher’s ability to control the higher seed in this matchup. will face off sunday at labar a challenge requet said the pasquerilla west will com-line of scrimmage. however, the chaos (3-3), led practice complex at 5 p.m. otters are taking head on. pete to keep their dream 
“our [offensive line] and by senior captain katherine “we would love to keep of playing in notre dame [defensive line] are both kaes, think they can make Contact Joe Everett at  this season going obvious-stadium alive at 4 p.m. at hard-nosed and aggressive,” their mark this postseason. jeveret4@nd.edu ly,” requet said. “i know that labar practice complex. he said. “in order to be suc-“i am very optimistic for the seniors don’t want to end cessful, we need to keep our cavanaugh going into the No. 3 Morrissey vs. No. 6 their football careers on a Contact Alex Bender at  edge in the trenches and al-playoffs,” kaes said. “we’ve Sorin loss, so we are going to put abender@nd.edu low our playmakers time to been improving with every everything out there. i think 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 

make plays.” game, and i believe that’s sports writer we are a better team than No. 4 Keenan vs. No. 5 For stanford, the concern going to continue going into our numbers show, and if we Siegfried is the health of its players. this weekend.” no. 3 morrissey faces off can put together four solid 
By BRENNA MOXLEY 

after narrowly defeating howard senior captain against no. 6 sorin in the quarters, we could go far in sports writer last-ranked o’neill in their and quarterback stephanie first week of the playoffs this the postseason.” final game of the regular peterson said she is confi-sunday. The otters and the manor keenan will take on season, the griffins were in dent in her team’s mentality sorin sophomore captain go head-to-head sunday at siegfried on sunday after-need of rest, babiak said. going into the matchup. and linebacker matt requet 2:15 p.m. at riehle Fields. noon in a no. 4 vs. no. 5 clash 
“we have been struggling “we have set an expecta-said the otters have made to start off the postseason. with some injuries this sea-tion of winning this whole significant changes since Contact Maureen siegfried (3-1) is looking to son,” he said. “hopefully season, so we’re look-the regular season began. Schweninger at keep its season alive and grab fall break allowed us to ing to continue that in the “we started out as a mschweni@nd.edu its fourth win of the season. 
senior safety and captain paid adverTisemenT 
No. 4 Farley vs. No. 5 grady schmidt said the team Pasquerilla West took a break from practicing right before playoffs. 
By ALEX BENDER 

sports writer “having fall break between now and our last game made 
no. 4 Farley and no. 5 it tough to stay focused on pasquerilla west face off in a football, but i’m confident matchup between two teams that we’ll be ready to go on determined to make it to sunday,” schmidt said. notre dame stadium for the he said the ramblers’ game interhall championship. plan is to remain flexible and 
both teams have had a make adjustments based on great deal of success so far how the knights are playing. this season, but they have schmidt also named a few done so with strengths on players he expected to stand opposite sides of the ball. out for the ramblers. pasquerilla west (4-1-1) has “a couple players to look been strong on defense, out for are [senior] James while Farley (5-1) has relied bowyer on the [offensive] on its offense. line and [junior] Jake maier 
Finest senior co-captain at cornerback,” he said. ali buersmeyer said she has keenan (3-1) defeated been pleased with her team’s keough, o’neill and dillon growth as the season has en route to the playoffs, al­progressed. though the knights lost by a 
“This has been an awe-single point to rival stanford some season so far. From the in the battle for the chapel. beginning our offense has keenan and siegfried will been so effective, and com-face off sunday at 1 p.m. at bined with a defense that’s riehle Fields. been consistently improv­ing, our team has looked re-Contact Brenna Moxley at  ally good,” buersmeyer said. bmoxley01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 
contest against northwestern marked the eighth overtime result and fifth-consecutive overtime match for the irish this season. despite drawing in double overtime, the irish outshot the wildcats, 39-7 
— the program’s most shots since posting 36 in a 7-1 win over pittsburgh on oct. 3, 2012. 
“There is a lot we can take away from last week on both sides of the ball,” hodan said. “we have to learn from the mistakes we made and clean up all the little things. 
“we will definitely be ready for saturday [against pitt].” 
pitt fell, 1-0, to acc­contender duke last Friday, only managing two shots in 90 minutes of play. The irish, however, took down duke in overtime, 3-2, on oct. 10. sophomore forward Jeffrey Farina scored in the 97th minute off a corner kick from hodan to put the irish past the blue devils. before notching the game-winning assist against duke, hodan added the first two goals for a team-high five points on the game. 
Though he had a slow start to the season, hodan has led the irish in conference play and currently ranks second on the roster at 10 points, with three goals and four as­sists. The senior midfielder and tri-captain said he’s ex­cited to see the irish play to their full potential, as he heads into his last regular season match of his notre dame career. 
“The season has gone pretty well up to this point,” hodan said. “it’s exciting that we have done well, but it’s even more exciting be­cause i don’t think we have truly played up to our full potential yet.” 
“we are very close to doing so and hopefully we can put everything together at the right time to make a big run in the postseason.” 
before the beginning of postseason play, the irish host pitt on saturday at 2 
p.m. at alumni stadium. The game will be broadcast live on espn3, and the senior class will be recognized be­fore the start of the game. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 16 

“we match up well against everyone, to be honest,” romagnolo said. “we’re a great defensive team, not just the back four. we’ve limited all our opponents’ chances.” 
The matchup is likely to be the last time on the alumni stadium pitch for the irish seniors, including naughton, roccaro, forward anna maria gilbertson, midfield­er glory williams, defender brittany von rueden and forward mary schwappach. 
“This is a game that’s just as important as every other 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ ndsmcobserv­er 


game. yes, it’s senior day and we want to put forth a good performance, but we want to play well for our­selves and to help with seed­ing heading into the ncaa tournament,” romagnolo said. 
notre dame will have to stick to their strengths in order to upset the hokies, romagnolo said. 
“we need to play our game: get the ball and move it, cre­ate opportunities on attack,” she said. “defensively, we need to put pressure on them and make them uncomfort­able on the ball. The big, strong, physical team that they are, they like to do set pieces, so that’s something we’ll be looking out for and trying to defend.” 
romagnolo said the task of containing and outshooting virginia Tech will be a team effort. 
“when you have a team like this, we have so many outstanding individuals,” romagnolo said. “we’ve seen different people step up and we’ve seen the whole team step up, and that’s what we’re looking for.” 
notre dame’s final regu­lar season game against virginia Tech will begin Friday at 7 p.m. at alumni stadium. 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


Senior midfielder Patrick Hodan makes a move on a defender during a 3-1 win over Virginia on Sept. 25 at Alumni Stadium. 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Members of the men’s soccer team celebrate a goal during a 3-1 win against Virginia on Sept. 25 at Alumni Stadium. 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | The observer 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
over the weekend, hoping to see some improvement de­spite some shifts in the line­up. Jackson said he would reward practice work effort with ice time. 
“it’s about trying to give guys a look,” Jackson said. “if they’re working hard in practice, then i felt they deserved a chance. we’ll continue to do that even on defense.” 
Junior defenseman Justin wade and his fellow blue-lin­er freshman dennis gilbert earned praise from Jackson on wednesday. Jackson said he liked what he saw from the unit — even if he had never intended them to play together. 
“it actually happened by accident Friday night with andy ryan getting thrown out,” Jackson said. “we saw something positive putting together [dennis gilbert and Justin wade]. … That’s how things happen some­times, by accident. it’s a bal­ancing act.” 
wade, a native of aurora, illinois, said he was sim­ply happy for the opportu­nity to play for the irish. he came to notre dame by way of the ushl’s cedar rapids roughriders and only be­gan to focus on hockey after giving up football in middle school. 
“sixth-grade year, when i missed one football game for a hockey game, my foot­ball coach told me to quit,” wade said. 
From high school hockey to the ushl to hockey east, wade said he has seen a great deal of change in the way that teams play. 
“it’s interesting because duluth is a skill team,” wade said. “but penn [state] was more of what i was used to from the ushl. They were very aggressive and fast. going to hockey east, it’s just execution and position­ing. if you get out of position, if you don’t execute, hockey east capitalizes quick.” 
The irish and huskies are scheduled to play saturday and sunday. saturday’s puck drop is scheduled for 3:05 p.m. at Xl center in hartford, connecticut, while sunday’s action will take place in the barclays center in brooklyn, new york. The teams will face off at 2:35 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M BBall 
conTinued From page 16 
looking at expectations this season, brey doesn’t think having a less impres­sive record this season indi­cates regression. 
“i don’t know if i’d put 32 wins on it,” brey said at wednesday’s acc media day. “you know, the current group is highly motivated and has tasted a lot of good stuff, so they’d like to play further, and that’s noth­ing that i laid out for them, which is great. [Junior guard demetrius] Jackson set that tone. [senior forward Zach] auguste has set that tone.” 
with the loss of grant and guard/forward pat connaughton, the irish will have to figure out a way to make up for the combined 29 points per game those two provided. auguste said he is not concerned about offense being an issue for the irish this season despite the major losses. 
“you know, we play ef­ficient basketball, and we play together, so i think it’s going to be something that we handle as a team,” auguste said at acc media day. “even though me and demetrius, we take that role where we understand we’ve got to start putting more balls in the hoops. i think if we just continue to do that, i think we’ll be fine.” 
brey said this season’s team will be significantly different because of the changing personnel. notre dame successfully played with a smaller lineup last season, which includ­ed grant, connaughton, auguste, Jackson and junior guard steve vasturia. This time around, brey said the spacing on the court will match the changed lineup. 
“i think when you play [sophomore forward bonzie] colson and auguste togeth­er, your spacing is a little different than auguste and connaughton together, and i still think we have to work to figure that out because when we spread the floor we’re really at our best,” brey said. “but there really is that culture of moving the ball and making the extra pass. we’re a little bit big­ger. when you have a [junior forward v.J.] beachem and a colson on the floor, those are two seven-foot wing spans that are on the floor together, so defensively we end up getting our hands on a few more things. and i think Jackson and vasturia are two of the better defen­sive guards in the country.” 
Tonight, brey will test his new lineup against the Fighting saints, who fin­ished 23-10 last season and tied for the chicagoland collegiate athletic conference regular-season title. st. Francis returns both its leading scorers this year in juniors ilya ilyalev 
(17.2 points per game) and edvinas presniakovas (13.2). in addition to claim­ing a piece of their confer­ence championship, the Fighting saints made it to the naia tournament for the first time in 20 years. 
The last time the irish lost an exhibition game was in 1999, when marathon beat notre dame 105-81. 
brey said he will look to give some of the younger players experience as the irish are still trying to de­termine what their rotation off the bench will look like. 
colson and beachem, who both contributed from the bench last season, will be expected to fill grant and connaughton’s spots in the starting lineup. 
“i think ultimately [the rotation is] up to [brey], but at the same time i think we have guys who can play,” Jackson said. “we have a re­ally deep team. we have a lot of hard workers. we have a lot of talented players. so if [brey] decides to do that, i think guys will step in, and we really have developed that next-man-up mental­ity, so guys will step in and fill the void and be ready to go.” 


brey named senior for­ward austin burgett, along with Jackson and auguste, captain for this season, which could indicate an increased role this sea­son. Junior forward austin Torres, who contributed in 27 of last season’s games, could also see an increase in minutes. The irish will also welcome three four-star freshmen recruits to the court this season: forwards elijah burns and matt ryan and guard rex pflueger. 
The opportunity to play in another elite eight is sever­al months away, but the road starts Friday for the irish against st. Francis. notre dame will tip off against the Fighting saints at 7 p.m in purcell pavilion. 
Contact Manny DeJesus at  mdejesus@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 



JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Think before you react. don’t jump to conclusions or make assumptions. Focus on yourself and how you can make improvements that will ensure your happiness and well-being. strive for perfection as well as living within your means. don’t allow emotions to take over or hinder your ability to get things done. your numbers are 5, 13, 23, 26, 32, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay grounded, even if someone tries to upset you emotionally. Focus on your personal needs and doing things that you find exciting. love is on the rise, and avoiding feelings of jealousy will keep an important relationship running smoothly. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get things out in the open if you are having a problem with someone. knowing where you stand and what you can expect will help you make better choices. a day trip will bring you clarity and open up your options. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t follow someone without questioning what’s in it for you. make positive changes to the way you live and who you hang with and it will be easier to break the habits and routines that cost you financially and emotionally. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): move things around to suit your needs. get out in your community and see if there is something you can do to bring about positive changes. don’t let someone’s negativity get you down. remember, actions speak louder than words. make a difference. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll inspire the people you talk to today. your expressive and engaging way of presenting your ideas and plans will draw someone special to your side. an opportunity must not be overlooked. romance is highlighted. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll be able to see the big picture, but that doesn’t mean you should neglect the fine details that require a little more attention. ask questions and challenge anyone who you feel may be offering false information. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your involvement in matters that concern you will give you a platform to use your skills in order to make a difference. romance is encouraged and will help improve your personal life. a change of scenery will make your life better. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t trust anyone with your money, your possessions or your ideas. Try to develop a project by yourself or with someone you know you can trust. a change to your routine will make your life better. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): put your time and effort into self-improvements, not into trying to change others. not everyone will be overjoyed with the changes you make, but that will make it easier for you to weed out who you want in your circle and who you don’t. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on the people in your life who mean the most to you. make a difference to someone who has something to offer in return. sharing will bring you satisfaction and open up options that you never considered in the past. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tell the people you love exactly how you feel, and you will get an interesting response that will warm your heart. love is on the rise, and children and family affairs will lead to greater unity and prosperity. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): look out for your own interests or someone will take advantage of you. make changes to your home that will give you greater freedom to follow creative pursuits. an opportunity to make money from home looks promising. 

Birthday Baby: you are outgoing, entertaining and farsighted. you are unique and compassionate. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 

make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
HOCKEY 

notre dame prepares for 
Irish set for 
first exhibition game 
Hockey East play 
By MANNY DeJESUS 
sports writer 
with the final seconds on the clock winding down, former irish guard Jerian grant’s 3-point attempt flew over the rim, and kentucky erupted in celebration while notre dame walked off the court in disbelief as its chances at a Final Four went down the drain. 
as successful as last sea­son was —notre dame finished 32-6 last season, de­feated both duke and north carolina en route to the program’s first acc cham­pionship and made it to the programs first regional final appearance since 1979 — irish head coach mike brey said his team wants more. The irish embark on that mission tonight as notre dame takes on st. Francis (illinois) in their first exhi­bition matchup of the 2015­2016 season. 
see m bballPAGE 14 


By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
Fresh off of a pair of 3-3 draws with no. 5 minnesota duluth during its opening regular season homestand, notre dame now prepares to travel to connecticut for a pair of tilts against the huskies this weekend. 
The irish (1-1-2) will at­tempt to earn their first vic­tory in two weeks saturday as they face uconn (3-2­0), which is coming off a 5-2 victory at home against no. 7 boston university on Tuesday. 
The huskies have averaged 
3.8 goals per game to start its season and has yet to lose at home. 
The irish have yet to hold an opponent to fewer than three goals in a single game this season, which has forced the offense to try to keep pace. still, irish head coach 
Jeff Jackson said he was con-
Observer File Photo 
fident his team is ready to 

Senior forward Zach Auguste hangs on the rim in a 68-66 loss to 
turn the corner defensively 

Kentucky in the regional finals of the 2015 NCAA Tournament. 
— particularly in regards to the penalty kill. 
“considering the week be­fore, i thought we made some really good progress on our penalty kill,” Jackson said. “i also thought [sophomore goaltender cal petersen] was much more focused — i think those two things might be tied together a lit­tle bit. The penalties were a problem, but on saturday i thought we came out with a lot of energy and a lot of speed [on the penalty kill].” 
Jackson also lauded the efforts of the highly-ranked minnesota duluth squad. 
“you have to give duluth a lot of credit, because they’re a good team,” he said. “There’s always give and take with every opponent — but i expect them to be in the hunt at the end of the year, in the national tournament.” 
Jackson said he paid par­ticular attention to the play of his defensive pairings 
see hockey PAGE 13 
INTERHALL 
Playoffs begin Sunday 
No. 2 Stanford vs. No. 7 Fisher 
By DOMINIC  IANELLI 
sports writer 
The first round of the playoffs will feature no. 2 stanford and no. 7 Fisher. 
Fisher junior captain shannon massey said his team placed a special em­phasis on offense this week as it prepares to face a tal­ented stanford defense. 
“we need to be able to con­trol the ball with sustained drives and limit turnovers,” massey said. “if we are able to do that, i am confident in our team’s ability. we have been working on continuity and execution on offense.” 
despite its perfect record, stanford senior captain dan babiak said stanford is still looking to improve and tweak its high-powered 
see inTerhall PAGE 11 
MEN’S SOCCER 

ND to wrap up season against Pitt 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 

The irish close their 2015 regular season against pitt on saturday at alumni stadium. 
no. 14 notre dame (8-3-5, 3-2-2 acc) will play host to acc rival pitt (5-8-3, 0-6­
1) to wrap up both teams’ regular season play. last year, the irish finished their regular season with a 4-1 victory over the panthers that clinched their second-straight acc regular-season title. 
“pitt is always a difficult team to play against,” se­nior tri-captain and mid­fielder patrick hodan said. “They play similar to some of the other acc teams we’ve played this year so we should be prepared for their style of play.” 
The irish face the panthers after a series of road con­tests that left notre dame with two draws and one loss to snap its eight-game un­beaten streak. notre dame drew, 0-0, against virginia Tech on oct. 16 and four days later tied, 1-1, with northwestern. The irish then fell, 2-1, to no. 2 wake Forest on oct. 23. 
“after a few unlucky re­sults, it’s important that we get back to the basics of outworking the opponent, moving the ball quickly, limiting mistakes and fin­ishing our chances,” hodan said. 
Finishing chances speaks to notre dame’s continuous overtime results, as the 
see m soccer PAGE 12 
WOMEN’S SOCCER 

squad readies for virginia Tech 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 
sports writer 

no. 14 notre dame will face its final test of the regular season when no. 5 virginia Tech visits alumni stadium on Friday. 
The acc showdown has the potential to substantial­ly affect the seeding of both teams in the ncaa tourna­ment, which begins nov. 13 following the conclusion of the conference tourney next weekend. 
“[a win] would obviously 
be a nice end to the regular 
season,”  irish head coach  
Theresa  romagnolo  said.  
“we’ve  had  some  great  

tests: duke, north carolina [and] virginia Tech — those are all phenomenal games to end the regular season and prepare us for what­ever we might face in the postseason.” 
The irish (12-4-1, 5-4-0 acc) have won four of their last five games, with a nar­row 2-1 defeat at the hands of no. 8 north carolina coming as the lone loss. 
meanwhile, virginia Tech (14-2-1, 6-2-1 acc) is coming off a win against pittsburgh. its season highlights include an oct. 22 tie against no. 3 Florida state and an aug. 23 win against no. 2 west virginia, but the hokies also have losses to the Tar heels and no. 7 clemson. 
with the hokies ranking 12th in the nation in scoring, romagnolo said countering their offensive aggression will be a key to the game. 
“They’re a good attack­ing team: big, strong and physical, and very opportu­nistic in the goals that they score,” she said. “we need to make sure that we take care of the ball and defend well like we have been.” 
however, romagnolo said this year she’s been pleased with notre dame’s de­fense, led by seniors katie naughton and cari roccaro, and is confident the team can make it tough for even elite attackers to find the back of the net. 
see w soccer PAGE 12 




