The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 81 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘Faith Always’ campaign raises $105 million 
Surpassing the original goal of $80 million, the SMC capital campaign is the most successful in the school’s history 
athletic Facility as well as student of the campaign, “Faith always, 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
associate saint mary’s editor scholarships, rodriguez said. The action now” raised a record 
board of Trustees deliberated and amount of money is the college’s 
saint mary’s concluded its com-determined in order to implement history. rodriguez said the cam­prehensive fundraising campaign, the plan, the college needed to se-paign was a success because the “Faith always, action now,” after cure funding through a fundrais-donors recognized their contribu­surpassing the initial goal and er, rodriguez said. tions help further the education raising $105 million, making it before the campaign’s launch, of current and future saint mary’s the most successful fundraising the board of Trustees determined women. campaign in the college’s 171-year how feasible the fundraiser would “our goal was to create op-history. be by gauging the interest of alum-portunities for students through 
vice president for college nae and friends of the college. scholarships and to support the relations shari rodriguez said the “The feasibility report really educational environment and campaign idea originated from showed the passion that donors faculty,” rodriguez said. “That the plan college president carol had for the college,” rodriguez was our driving motivation and ann mooney’s devised in 2008, said. “little did we know, how we persevered. we continued to which outlined the goals of the difficult things were going to be talk about the amazing education college for the next five years. financially at the time. [in 2008] that young women get here and 

president mooney’s strategic when the campaign began, the the need to make certain that it’s plan prioritized renovations in the recession wasn’t fully realized yet.” college’s science hall and angela despite the difficult launch see campaign PAGE 4 EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 




recsports staffer wins award 
By ROSIE O’GRADY 
news writer 
The national intramural recreational sports association (nirsa) an­nounced that recsports stu­dent staffer and senior Jaclyn paul received the 2015 nirsa william n. wasson student leadership & academic award on Tuesday evening. 
“The award is … the high­
est  award  that  a  student  
[involved  in  recreational  
programs]  can  receive,”  
recsports  director  mark  




Faculty panel looks at core curriculum 
gregory crawford, dean of the college of science, as co-chairs of the decennial core curriculum review committee in august 2014, according to the core curriculum review website. The committee in­cludes 12 additional faculty mem­bers from multiple departments of the university. 
in order to engage faculty in the inspection process, the committee hosted open faculty forums throughout the academic year, per the website. The most recent forum was held in the mckenna 
see core PAGE 4 

writer talks role of black women in media 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 

every 10 years, the university of notre dame undergoes a rigor­ous review of its core curriculum, the set of courses that every stu­dent is required to take in order to establish a common foundation in learning, according to the core curriculum review website. 
This year’s review process launched with university president Fr. John Jenkins and university provost Thomas burish appoint­ing John mcgreevy, dean of the college of arts and letters, and 

By MELISSA RIORDAN 
news writer 

producer, writer and director issa rae shared her transition “it was a satirical diary about what it was like to be black at stanford. i cast my friends and shared it on Facebook, and the a show that students around the country were relating to.” 
Following the conclusion of this first mini-series and her college graduation, rae said gatekeepers — were just in my way, and i decided i would work to build my own projects.” 
despite these initial setbacks, rae said her desire to share sto­ries with the world and change williams said. “The award 

“From awkward black girl to 
recognizes students who are 
media maven” in a titular lecture 
employed by recreational 
sponsored by the multicultural 
sports departments and dis-
student programs and services 
play outstanding leadership, 
in carey auditorium on Tuesday 
academic prowess, a superior 
evening. 

work ethic and are involved 
rae said her career began 
she moved to new york city in 
search of opportunities in the the racial dynamic of media 
theatre and film industries. outweighed her nerves. 
There, rae said she felt disil­“i have always wanted to tell 
lusioned by the various media stories — about me, my friends, 
executives hindering her from about people i can relate to — 
the success she knew she was and that can be really easy to 
in service to their communi­ty. This award recognizes the whole person — their mind, body and spirit — and Jaclyn 
see recsporTs PAGE 5 
news PAGE 3 
with a youTube series she cre­ated while an undergraduate student at stanford university. 
“i created my first web se­ries my senior year of college, called ‘dorm diaries,’” rae said. 
viewpoinT PAGE 6 

school’s response was amazing. it even spread to schools like duke, harvard and howard. i could not believe that i created 
scene PAGE 8 
capable of. 

“i kept getting told to ‘change this’ or ‘wait’ or ‘do this,’” rae said. “it really forced me to take a step back and realize that a lot of these people — the 
men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 
do, except there is a huge dis­connect when it comes to race on television,” rae said. “The desire to tell my own story is 
see issa rae PAGE 5 
women’s swimming PAGE 16 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
brian hartnett                         alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 
News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Who do you think will win the Super Bowl next year? 

Jim Boyle 
junior 
knott hall 
“The steelers.” 

Brian Severyn 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“The rams.” 

Zane Parker 
junior 
knott hall 
“The colts.” 



Zander McDonald 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“The chiefs.” 


Keith Loh 
junior 
knott hall 

“who had the worst record this year?” 

Andy Miles 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 
“The chiefs.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
rebecca o’neil greg hadley Email news@ndsmcobserver.com margaret hynds renee griffin andrea vale hunter mcdaniel 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
emily danaher maddie daly 
Photo Viewpoint 

Basketball Game “When Will We Find Labor Cafe Men’s and Women’s Tennis Match 
michael yu austin Taliaferro 
Purcell Pavilion Extraterrestrial Snite Museum of Art Swimming and Diving Eck Tennis Pavillion 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. Life?” 4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. Rolf’s Aquatic Center 10 a.m. - 12 p.m. Men’s team takes on Jordan Hall of Science Artistic 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. Men’s tennis takes on 
Corrections 

Boston College. 12:30 p.m. - 1:30 p.m. representations of Both teams compete Ball State. 
The observer regards itself as Lecture with Dr. Seth work and workers. against Cleveland a professional publication and 
Shostak. State. 

strives for the highest standards 
“Of Mice and Men” Basketball Game Tennis Match Saturday Vigil Mass Mass in Spanish 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
DeBartolo Performing Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavillion Basilica of the Sacred Dillon Hall Chapel 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. Heart 1:30 p.m. - 2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Women’s team takes Women’s tennis takes 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Worship Service. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Filmed Broadway on Virginia. on Stanford. Worship service. 
we can correct our error. 
production. 



Professor, fellow examine IMF’s role in ‘08 crisis 
By CLARE KOSSLER 
news writer 
in a lecture in the hesburgh center auditorium Tuesday hosted by the kellogg institute, visiting kellogg fel­low bumba mukherjee and notre dame assistant pro­fessor alexandra guisinger spoke about their joint re­search on financial crises in developing countries and the conditions associated with the success of international monetary Fund (imF) pro­grams in those countries. 
mukherjee said based on the duo’s research, they be­lieve the success of programs suggested by the imF, which lends money to countries fac­ing economic and financial crisis, is largely dependent upon the financial and po­litical power of non-bank fi­nancial institutions — more commonly referred to as “shadow banks.” 
“as financial globalization has taken off in the last 20, 30 years in the developing world in particular, [shadow banks] are becoming impor­tant business actors,” he said. 
guisinger said countries turn to the imF to avoid the possibility of deep economic recession in times of finan­cial and economic distress — specifically when there is danger of a “sudden reversal” or the abrupt decline in the inflow of capital. however, guisinger said the imF can complicate the economic situation, bringing in “a new set of actors, a new set of in­centives and can interact with this more general pat­tern of the ebbs and flows of capital.” 
The standard recommen­dation of the imF for a coun­try to avoid a sudden reversal, mukherjee said, is to impose regulations on shadow bank­ing. he said a problem arises when the shadow banks of a given country are powerful enough to effectively oppose the imF regulations. 
“when you have these ex­tremely concentrated, very strong, large, financially powerful shadow banks, that’s precisely when imF programs won’t work,” mukherjee said. “if anything, they’ll make things even worse.” 
guisinger said the result is the departure of foreign investors and a stock mar­ket crash, which can have “cascading effects on the economy and on political conditions.” 
“stock market crashes are not trivial,” mukherjee said. 
“They have terrible conse­quences. investments col­lapse, the economy collapses, unemployment rates go up, there’s political riots — peo­ple respond.” 
mukherjee said citizens as­sociate the imF, and thus the government responsible for asking the imF to help, with the financial crisis. he said this puts enormous politi­cal pressure on government officials, who resort to fraud out of fear for their political careers. 


“it’s this deadly combina­tion in terms of imF pro­grams and financial crises that leads to these bad politi­cal outcomes,” he said. 
mukherjee said his re­search with guisinger led him to conclude that the imF should reform its approach and consider countries on a case-by-case basis. 
“The problem here is that the imF is not really talking to governments who come to them desperately looking for help,” mukherjee said. “They are coming up with this blue­print without really looking at local conditions, which is not working.” 
Contact Clare Kossler at  ckossler@nd.edu 

bavo encourages student advocacy for victims 
By MEGAN UEKERT news writer  crisis center. both are non­profit organizations, com­ 
mitted to offering services  
saint mary’s belles against  to victims of sexual assault,  
violence  office (bavo) is  sexual  abuse, stalking  and  
calling on college students  domestic violence.  classes  
to  become  advocates  for  to  become an advocate for  
the Family Justice  center  the Family Justice  center  
of  st. Joseph’s county and  and  s-o-s  began Jan. 27.  
s-o-s, the county’s  rape  The classes are held 6-9 p.m.  

paid adverTisemenT 

every Tuesday and Thursday for six weeks. 
sexual assault and harass­ment has been brought into a greater concern and topic of issue in the recent years through new initiatives and forms of modern publicity. it is a topic of controversy and a very difficult topic to discuss for some. 
“one in four women and one in 10 men experiences relationship violence in their lifetime,” bavo di­rector connie adams said. “one in six women and one in 19 men experience stalk­ing in her lifetime. one in six women and one in 33 men have experienced a sexual assault in their lifetime. 
“These issues significant­ly impact our communi­ties in america. due to the impact, response services are critical to the overall health and well-being of communities.” 
according to adams, vol­unteers are crucial to the success of these organiza­tions. whether they are an­swering the 24/7 helpline or advocating and support­ing victims seeking medical care and forensic exami­nations at a local hospital, their families and friends. adams said volunteers also answer phones and com­plete intakes for clients at the office. They manage social media accounts and help plan, organize and ad­vertise awareness at fund­raising events. 

according to the Family Justice center website, the organization was estab­
“It can be a powerful experience contributing to Michiana beyond our campus walls. For those interested in helping professions, it’s also great exposure to support services.” 
Connie Adams 
director 
BAVO 

lished under the adminis­tration of george w. bush as a part of the Family Justice center initiative. There are 15 different centers nation­wide including the one in st. Joseph’s county, which opened its doors in 2007 to help eradicate all forms of domestic violence. The goal of this initiative is to improve victims access to services. 
The number of instanc­es of domestic violence and sexual assaults in st. Joseph’s county is signifi­cant, adams said. local police respond to approxi­mately 8,000 domestic vio­lence calls a year, according to the Family Justice center website. The department of Justice speculates that over half of partner violence is not reported to authorities. overall, the department es­timates that there are a to­tal of 16,000 unreported and reported incidents within the county lines each year. according to the center’s website, victims come from all different social statuses, races and religions. even so, 
statistics  reveal  that  most  
victims  are  women  and  
most have children.  

adams said students will find there are many benefits to volunteering to become an advocate. 
“it can be a powerful ex­perience contributing to michiana beyond our cam­pus walls,” adams said. “For those interested in help­ing professions, it’s also great exposure to support services.” 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Core 
conTinued From page 1 
hall auditorium Tuesday night. mcgreevy began the meeting by outlining the purpose of the review committee and the im­portance of faculty feedback in the process. 
“one thing to observe about these requirements is that they haven’t changed in forty years,” mcgreevy said. “These are the re­quirements that came into being at notre dame and also, roughly, at boston college and georgetown [university], in the early 1970s.” 
The core curriculum is the foun­dation of the notre dame educa­tion, mcgreevy said, and thus, the review of the curriculum is crucial. 
“if i were to characterize [the committee’s] conversations … i think the things we have talked the most about are, ‘what is it that we want students to have when they graduate? what knowledge, dispo­sitions and skills?’” mcgreevy said. 
mcgreevy said students may need a range of particular courses that fine tune writing and oration skills. 
mcgreevy said the university needs to examine “how best can [courses] be substantiated — in­corporating certain requirements and organizational structures — from academic advising to the rela­tionship between [the] First year of studies [program] and the colleges and schools.” 
other questions under consid­eration by the committee include how to sustain and deepen the university’s commitment to its catholic character and how to in­tegrate core curriculum require­ments with major requirements, mcgreevy said. Faculty members were then invited to share their thoughts on these questions. 
associate professor of political science debra Javeline proposed a sustainability requirement for the core curriculum. 
“we are all deeply concerned about the sustainable issues of en­vironmental change and whether our students come out of notre dame to participate in the conver­sation,” Javeline said. 
while review of the curriculum is a beneficial activity, it also runs the risk of losing sight of what the university already does well, said Jean porter, John a. o’brien profes­sor of theology. 
“notre dame is an institution that prides itself on giving our un­dergraduates a first-rate, human­istic education,” porter said. “we initiate them into certain critical thought, we initiate them into the learnings of the church, and i think we do it at a very high level.” 
Theology professor gary anderson called for reforms to the structure of introductory classes so that students not be required to take as many beginning classes with graduate students. 
“when i arrived in 2003 and began teaching the intro course, i was told i had to do the university seminar with 17 students because we have to have senior faculty members teaching those semi­nars,” anderson said. “plus, the university requires us to fund our fifth-year graduate students by putting them in these classes, so we are forced to do this.” 
elizabeth mazurek, associate professor of classics, spoke on the importance of languages being in­cluded in the potentially new core curriculum. 
“i think that if you were to ex­plore a thematic requirement of di­versity, foreign language would be perfect,” mazurek said. “you would not be forcing all students to take so many semesters of a language requirement, but it would be an op­tion for diversity exploration. 
“… The catholic church is a world church and if we are to talk about ecological literacy, i think we also have to talk about world lan­guage literacy.” 
The committee will open up to student feedback beginning next week, as there will be an open dis­cussion on the place of theology in the core curriculum at 7 p.m. monday night in geddes hall. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at kmullen2@nd.edu 
Campaign 
conTinued From page 1 
accessible financially.” 
rodriguez said the college’s mission remained on the fore­front of the campaign while the heritage of the sisters of the holy cross guided it through the en­tire process. 
“saint mary’s continues to an­swer the need of society, which hearkens back to the holy cross sisters,” she said. “They assessed the need and answered the call to lead women’s education, which is exactly what our gradu­ate programs are doing today.” 
The campaign also facilitated the addition of three new gradu­ate programs to saint mary’s cur­riculum beginning in fall of 2015. The programs are a doctorate of nursing practice, a master of science in data science and a master of science in speech pathology. 
To continue to educate women, no matter their financial status, “Faith always, action now” set a goal of raising $20 million for student scholarships, rodriguez said. The college surpassed that goal by $15 million, raising a total of $35 million for future students. 

“one thing that has been made clear through the great recession is that we are called to make cer­tain that young women can be educated in a catholic liberal arts tradition,” rodriguez said. “i don’t think there’s any bet­ter place than at saint mary’s to get that education. so we really want to create that access for the future.” 
rodriguez said “Faith always, action now” can be attributed to the hard work of the college’s president, carol ann mooney, as well as the great education al­ready offered at saint mary’s. 
“The success of the campaign is in part because of the great leadership of president mooney and a solid strategic plan,” she said. “but the [campaign’s success] also highlights the education that is offered here. donors believe the strength of the educational experience here is worthy of the investments they have made.” 
The campaign celebration is scheduled for april 17. all the donors who have given to saint mary’s will be invited to cam­pus to celebrate and watch the groundbreaking of the new soc­cer, softball and lacrosse fields. 
rodriguez said the college ap­preciates the donors who have helped to make this the most successful campaign in saint mary’s history and who con­tinue to build the college’s leg­acy through new programs and facilities. 
“we are so grateful to the do­nors who believe in the mission here and have supported the college to continuously educate women,” rodriguez said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




to receive this award. 
RecSports 

“Jackie being the first 
conTinued From page 1 

from the university of notre 
Issa Rae 
conTinued From page 1 
what, in part, made me want to get started as a writer.” 
rae channeled this ambition into her second web series, “The misadventures of an awkward black girl.” she said she hoped that this venture would trans­form the way people see girls on television. 
“i will say that girls [shows] 
—
 ‘new girl,’ ‘Two broke girls’ 

—
 they all have something in common, and that is that the universal term ‘girl’ is white,” rae said. “in these successful series, the default girl is implied that she is white, and i really have a strong desire to change that.” 


since launching “The misadventures of an awkward black girl,” rae’s channel has earned over 20 million views and nearly 160,000 subscribers. rae was also listed on Forbes 30 un­der 30 list twice, including this year, and went on to work with stars such as pharrell williams, Tracey edmonds and writer shonda rhimes. 
moving forward, rae said she hopes to help others to succeed in the media field. recently, she launched colorcreative.Tv, which aims to help women and minorities looking to work in media. 
“Just last year i launched a platform called colorcreative. Tv for minority women,” rae said. “The mission is to disrupt the traditional television process and change the landscape of television.” 
Contact Melissa Riordan at mriordan@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

what is missing from that list, is mention of Jackie’s personality and character,” brown said. “among her many truly outstanding at­tributes, what makes Jackie such a valuable member of our staff is her kindness and compassion. students ap­preciate that they have an advocate who will do all that is possible to assist them.” 
brown said paul’s posi­tive qualities are evident are practiced far beyond her on-campus commitments. paul taught second grade, homeschooled and tutored mathematics in komga, south africa, as part of notre dame’s international summer service learning program in 2013, brown said. 
“we are more than a lit­tle excited, not only be­cause of the magnitude of the award and its impact on our recsports program, but more so because of the character of the recipient,” brown said. “on the day it was announced, the entire recsports staff gathered in our conference room to congratulate Jackie and cel­ebrate the occasion.” 
according to the nirsa website, the award will be presented at the nirsa annual conference and recreational sports expo in grapevine, Texas, on march 30-april 2. 
Contact Rosie O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
paul is the epitome of all of these qualities.” 
paul said the award rec­ognizes not only her work on behalf of notre dame recsports but esteems the dame to receive this nirsa award will open the door to more of our students and staff in recsports to be rec­ognized for the outstand­ing work they do every day,” williams said. “nominating 

“Jackie being the first from the University of Notre Dame to receive this NIRSA award will open the door to more of our students and staff in RecSports to be recognized for the outstanding work they do every day. Nominating people for awards like this is a very sincere way to say thank you for what you do for Notre Dame and RecSports, and that we truly care about you and what you do for others.” 


Mark Williams director, RecSports 
university’s entire program. 
“when i learned that i received this award, i was very honored,” paul said. “i have been involved with recsports almost my entire time here at notre dame, and i know first hand how hard everyone in the recsports department works. 
“... my excitement in re­ceiving the award is be­cause it speaks to the entire recsports department.” 
williams said that this recognition is especially noteworthy because paul is the first notre dame student people for awards like this is a very sincere way to say thank you for what you do for notre dame and recsports, and that we truly care about you and what you do for others.” 

according to recsports assistant director david brown, paul is a sociology major with a 3.78 gpa and is the president of the water ski club, a starter for the women’s club soccer team and works as a desk atten­dant at the rockne memorial gym. 
“more importantly, and 

commuter train crash kills six in ny 
Associated Press 

a packed commuter train slammed into a sport utility vehicle on the tracks at a cross­ing and erupted into flames Tuesday night, killing six peo­ple, injuring at least a dozen and sending hundreds of pas­sengers scrambling for safety, authorities said. 
The northbound metro-north railroad train struck a Jeep cherokee in valhalla, about 20 miles north of new york city, railroad spokesman aaron donovan said. killed were the suv’s driver and five people aboard the train, he said, making this crash the railroad’s deadliest. 
The railroad crossing gates had come down on top of the suv, which was stopped on the tracks, the spokesman said. The driver got out to look at the rear of the vehicle, then she got back in and drove forward and was struck, he said. 
The train shoved the suv about 10 train car lengths. smoke poured out of the scorched front rail car, its win­dows blackened. 
witnesses said they saw the flames shooting from where the crash occurred, in a wood­ed area near a cemetery. 
ryan cottrell, assistant di­rector at a nearby rock climb­ing gym, said he had been looking out a window because of an earlier, unrelated car ac­cident and saw the train hit the car, pushing it along. 
“The flames erupted pretty quickly,” he said. 
he said from his vantage point, it wasn’t clear that the car was on the tracks as the train approached and “we didn’t see it was going to collide with anything until the actual impact.” 
passengers described a bump and said they smelled gasoline from the vehicle. 
more than 750 passengers likely were aboard the train, including Justin kaback, com­muting home to danbury, connecticut. 
“i was trapped. you know there was people in front of me and behind me, and i was trapped in the middle of a car and it was getting very hot,” he told abc news. 
Who’s afraid of the big bad bus? 

INSIDE COLUMN 

marching to be heard 
Clare Kossler 
news writer 

on Jan. 22, nbc’s nightly news with brian williams included stories on “deflategate,” a measles outbreak at disneyland, the death of saudi arabian king abdullah bin abdulaziz, a meeting between Jeb bush and mitt romney and a decrease in the popularity of bacon and kale, among others. a feature story on a documentary about dogs riding in motor­cycle sidecars concluded the broadcast. not afforded coverage was a demonstration in the nation’s capital of hundreds of thousands protesting the supreme court’s 1973 ruling on roe vs. wade. 
indeed, of the three major networks — nbc, abc and cbs — only cbs included a mention of the march for life in its evening news, allotting perhaps 30 seconds to the ac­tual demonstration and several more minutes to the passage of abortion-related legislation in the house. The march received some at­tention from local newscasters as well as local and national newspapers, but many of the stories on the march were misleading, even inaccurate. ausa Today headline reported “‘roe v. wade’ turns 42; thousands march in opposition,” and an associated press story read “demonstrators crowd national mall.” although no official estimates of crowd size were published, these reports failed to capture the massive crowds that took several hours to complete the walk from the national mall to the supreme court. other reports contained factual errors — nbc4 washington claimed that the march ended at the capitol building. This year, as well as the previous two years, i have attended the march, and it concluded in front of the supreme court. 
The lack of coverage and sloppy reporting that characterized the media’s treatment of the march for life this year is troubling, if only because it suggests the media cannot or will not relate certain potentially important information. consequently, the public does not have access to that information, and can­not take it into account when forming opin­ions, making decisions and choosing how to vote. whatever accusations might be leveled against the media, there is a general societal expectation that the press must and will provide impartial and complete coverage of events. in a democratic system that depends upon the judgments of voters, it is the respon­sibility of the press to provide necessary infor­mation to form those judgments whenever and wherever possible. Freedom of the press is not only a lack of governmental interference in the press, but also the uninhibited access of the common people to ‘newsworthy stories.’ and while news agencies cannot be expected to cover every story they come across, a con­troversial demonstration consisting of hun­dreds of thousands that has taken place every year for over four decades seems to be a story meriting our attention. it certainly seems to be a story that merits more attention than dogs riding in motorcycle sidecars. 
Contact Clare Kossler at       ckossler@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 
i used to be terrified of riding public transporta­tion. yes, i was a child that grew up in a bubble. i lived a minute walk away from my private catholic school in north washington, d.c. my mother was a stay-at­home mum who could come at my beck-and-call. i can’t remember the number of times that she brought the lunch that i had forgotten to school, or came to pick me up when i had a really bad migraine. i lived a sheltered (dare i say spoiled) life, and nothing had destroyed that innocent little school child i was. 
Then i got to high school. 
my parents grew up in london. my mother rode two buses to school every day. both my parents were made to take an exam at 11 years old that would de­cide if they went to the more elite grammar school, or if they would attend their local secondary school. i have heard often how difficult their childhood was. needless to say, my parents assumed that i would be a normal, sensible human being who would ride the public bus back from school to my house. 
i freaked out when i first heard. what kind of cruel punishment was this? i was to be tossed into the cruel world, barely a 14-year-old baby, and made to ride the public bus with a bunch of strangers whom i didn’t know? i was also shocked because i lived in washington, and if you own a car, no one takes public transportation (there were numerous times when con­cerned parents from my high school stopped right by the bus stop i was standing at to enquire if i needed a ride home, because obviously i was a neglected child). 
let me just set the scene for you on how ridiculous this was that i so desperately did not want to take the bus. we lived maybe 15 minutes away from the high school that i spent four wonderful years at. This high school was in georgetown, right behind the presti­gious university. i rode the bus for 20 minutes from a stop right outside of my high school to a stop right by the safeway at the bottom of the road from my house. 

i was going to be on what i considered a nightmarish journey for at most 20 minutes. 
i cried. i told my mother i would walk home from school. i insisted that i would never in my life ride the bus. The day arrived. i finished with classes, packed my backpack, walked out of the gate and attempted to walk home. This lasted for maybe five minutes, until i plopped myself right back in front of the bus stop as my face streamed with sweat. 
obviously, i survived my first bus ride. i now live in new york city, where riding public transporta­tion, or walking, is the main mode of transportation. i also don’t have a driver’s license, which does make it slightly impossible for me to do anything but walk or ride public transportation. 
The one thing i do love about riding the bus, the subway, the metro or the tube is just the experience of seeing people. my friend sarah and i sat on a bus coming back from shoreditch the other day, and just listened to the conversations of the couple behind us talking about the time they walked in on to people in a bath, and sarah and i could not believe our luck. we collapsed into laughter as soon as we exited to bus, and is now a story we tell anyone who will listen. or the time i saw an old grandmother and her grand­son kiss and hug goodbye on the platform, and then i watched her just smile to herself as she sat across from me. sometimes it’s nice to just look around at all the faces on the subway, metro or the tube and remind myself that i am really lucky to be able to be in places where there are so many exciting things going on. one person could be running away from home, another finishing up a really long day at work and another get­ting ready to go on a first date, and in some way i am a small part of it. 
Kitty Baker is a Program of Liberal Studies and film, tele­vision and theatre major and eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls, who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



How to travel with your best friend 
Allison D’Ambrosia 
guest column 

it’s not easy, traveling. it’s stressful, it’s expensive and most importantly it involves a lot of decision-making. The other day i was accused of being indecisive because i don’t care, however, it’s quite the opposite. i’m indecisive because i care enough to be indifferent. i understand that i’ll pretty much enjoy whatever comes along, and i keep my expecta­tions low (my key to happiness, but that’s another article). it’s better to realize when you don’t care enough to make a decision and thus are happy with whatever. once in a psych class, i had to read this article about choosing; it was talking about how people who are given fewer options are happier, but the people who are the happiest about outcomes are the ones that didn’t make a decision at all. There was a compar­ison to ordering at a restaurant; the people who looked the menu over once and then chose from memory were more satisfied than those who studied, but even yet the most sat­isfied customers were the ones that ordered whatever the chef recommended. why is this all related? well because like i said, traveling takes a lot of decision-making and it’s harder when you’re tired, and it’s even harder when you’re with someone you love (i.e. you’re best friend for 9 years). so here are my tips for traveling with your best friend and making sure you still have a best friend at the end. 
First, different taste in men. 

if you and your best friend are traveling together, make sure you don’t have the same taste in men. why? because then there will be no fighting over who gets whom at the club, bar, pub or whatever they’re called in whatever coun­try you’re in. if you do have the same taste, then make sure you trade off one by one — sounds ridiculous but it works. better yet, if you have the same taste in men, but one of you already has a significant other, than just make sure to play a good wing woman — both of you — make sure your new interest has a friend to occupy your friend so no one gets bored or feels left out (it’d be even better if his friend also had a significant other so they could keep each other in check and you wouldn’t have to worry about it). or do what us americans do and just say: “what happens in vegas stays in vegas!” but just say it anywhere. like when in rome 
— hardly anyone is actually in rome or vegas when saying both these things. second, be the same size in clothes (and preferably shoes if possible) 
This makes traveling together so much easier and less stressful because you only have to pack half as much as you’d think. plus, if you forget anything there’s a much higher chance your better half remembered it. For example: i didn’t even bother bringing shampoo and conditioner, be­cause i know my best friend has the softest most beautiful flowing golden locks so she would be prepared to take care of them. i could borrow her hair products and, in exchange, she could borrow my classy euro-chic-functional fashion. if you’re wiling to share clothes, and more, packing becomes almost a nonissue as there will always be something to wear. 
Third, never be in a rush. 
The key is to never rush the person you’re with. Traveling is stressful enough, especially when you don’t speak the language or don’t quite understand the currency (here’s looking at you, budapest). There’s no reason to be rushing through things when you’re enjoying them. however, you should still keep track of time. here’s my little trick; if you think you need to leave somewhere or you’re running short on time, never suggest that yourself. what you should do instead is ask your best friend what time it is and then ask, “well, what time are we supposed to be at our next stop?” or, “how long do you think it’ll take to get from here to the next place?” if you ask these questions it will make the other person feel better about leaving, they won’t feel rushed, but they’ll feel like they’re staying on track and with some sort of a schedule. Quasi-inception move. 
Fourth, don’t suffer silently, but don’t be a complainer 
if there’s really something you want to do, say it, or if you’re really not enjoying something express those thoughts. suffering in silence is not going to get you any­where. actually, it might get you out of a friendship because we all know how this goes; you get annoyed, get cranky, then you say, “no, i’m fine.” when you’re not, then the other person gets upset because you’re upset. soon enough you’re both mad and upset and no one is having a good time — not ideal. however, that doesn’t mean you can complain about every little thing that is bothering you. For example: the weather. no one can change the weather, so there’s no point in complaining every five seconds about it. Traveling is all about the experience, so you have to embrace the weird food, bad accommodations, struggling with linguis­tics, poorly spent money and just general annoyances with humanity. but, at least you had the opportunity to be an­noyed with the loud, snoring asian man sitting next to you on the train while his friend took business calls in a pierc­ingly loud and high pitched tonal language. or, complain together. it’s good bonding. 

Fifth, sleeping and eating 
possibly the biggest mistake people make while travel­ing with people is assuming that everyone else needs the same amount of sleep and food that they themselves need. personally, i don’t really need to sleep more than a couple hours a night to function normally and typically can get on very well off one meal a day. however, some people need eight hours of sleep a night in order to not catch a deadly cold, or turn into the sphinx. make sure you accommodate for these things. if someone says, “i’m hungry.” Find some food for her, even if you’re not hungry yourself. 
There are a lot of ways to screw up a friendship and there are even more ways that friendships sometimes just dissolve naturally. however, if you are truly best friends, aristotle says you’ll stay that way. he states in nicomachean ethics, “so too they are pleasant; for the good are pleasant both without qualification and to each other, since to each his own activities and others like them are pleasurable, and the actions of the good are the same or like. and such a friendship is as might be expected permanent, since there meet in it all the qualities that friends should have.” so apologies to my best friend, but according to aristotle, you’re stuck with me, even if i don’t take any of my own advice from above. 
Allison D’Ambrosia is a junior at Saint Mary’s who is currently spending a year in Oxford. Send her com­ments at  adambr1@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Never been more proud of ND students 
Chuck Hurley 
guest column 

in 1982, my brother and i went to a notre dame football game.  my father was a south bend cop and knew coach Faust. coach Faust graciously allowed us to visit the locker room following the game. i was a big fan of nd wide receiver Joe howard. in the locker room, we approached Joe howard for an autograph. Joe smiled and was exceedingly kind to us. i was only 11 years old. while Joe howard was speaking with us, a throng of reporters surrounded his locker. The reporters started peppering Joe with numerous questions about the game. Joe howard assertively said to the reporters, “hey guys, just wait a few minutes. i am talking with these kids right now.” at that moment, Joe howard became the standard of what i envisioned for a notre dame person. 
Joe howard was not concerned about personal branding. or getting a host of people to follow him. rather, he put a couple of young kids ahead of himself. i cannot express the immensity Joe howard’s action made upon me as a child. 
last fall, a staff member in the office of the registrar tragically lost her daughter. The staff member was assistant registrar liz rosencrantz. when we sent out an email saying the office was closing for the funeral, the out pouring of kind responses from nd students was incredible. i do not think i was ever more proud to be a graduate of notre dame. The response by my fellow domers reminded me immediately of what the benevolent student-athlete Joe howard did for me 33 years ago as a child. The compassion, love and kindness from nd students was astounding. i found it amazing in such a dark hour, our students could lift oth­ers spirit. Folks they did not even know. it meant a great deal to liz rosencrantz that so many stu­dents expressed sympathy and kind-heartedness. 
liz rosencrantz is one of the best people at notre dame. ever. our students will never completely know how much she does for you. she comes in on saturdays. liz works over break periods. we tell her to go home and rest and she still comes in at 7 a.m. 

she lives in a rural area far outside of south bend, yet drives through blizzards in order to serve you. liz does this because she loves our students. she is the last person to ever seek personal attention and the first person to volunteer to help any notre dame person. she is probably the last person on earth who ever should have to lose a child. liz has been to africa three times conducting aids educa­tion seminars for our christian brethren. i have seen liz show up at 4 a.m. to work on commence­ment sunday and work till near midnight when grades are due. 
Just one day during your four years at notre dame as a student, i wanted you to know about liz rosencrantz. she is a really wonderful person. and she has dedicated pretty much her entire life to you. 
Chuck Hurley was a member of the Notre Dame class of 1993 and is currently the University Registrar. Send him comments at hurley.32@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

being a college student, standing on the cliff, staring at what is the “real world” can be a bit intimidating. Just attempting to be taken seri­ously can sometimes take a lot confidence and courage. enter pete davidson, the 20 year old, 6’3”, 145 lbs. comic who is already making a big impact in the comedy sphere. The already im­pressive list of accomplishments includes a spot on mTv’s “guy code,” stand up performances on both “Jimmy kimmel” and “adam devine’s house party,” shooting a pilot for FoX and his current gig, becoming the youngest current cast member on snl as a featured player. lucky for us, davidson will be able to add preforming here at nd to his list after his show at legends on Feb. 6. even luckier for me, i got to speak with davidson about his quick ascend to comedy’s biggest stage and his about upcoming show here at nd. 
being as young as he is, davidson is in an in­teresting position, as he explains, “it’s a benefit and an obstacle. it’s a benefit in that i have a lon­ger period of time to figure stuff out, but it’s also an age difference. There are some references and stuff i don’t understand, actually a lot of references i don’t understand … it hasn’t been a problem, but there's definitely some stuff i don’t know.” 
however, it seems snl has embraced his youth, as davidson has adopted the moniker of snl’s “resident young person” in a recurring role on “weekend update.” davidson also gets many opportunities to play younger roles, mainly teenagers. yet despite his recent start, one of the reasons davidson has found so much success is because of his stark confidence on stage. “it’s really weird,” davidson said, “i have zero confi­dence in life and then on stage, for some reason, i feel very comfortable.” 
snl is legendary for having some of most re­nown names in comedy; however, as snl con­tinues its fortieth season, davidson finds himself on a cast with many new faces and fewer veter­ans then usual in years past. yet davidson does not see this younger lineup as problem, 
“i think it’s great because you have vets like keenan and bobby, even Tarrin, Jay and vanessa. i mean they have all been there five plus years. Then you even have younger people who are also doing great like beck and kyle, who are both re­ally smart and really funny. it’s a really fun cast, it’s a mix of both, and it’s a lot of fun.” 
Though davidson may be getting most of his fame through sketch humor on snl, he is certainly not shy about his roots in standup. starting at an age where most kids are worrying with acne and high school football, davidson was already touring the staten island and new york comedy clubs by age 16. after losing his fire fighter father on sept. 11, the young davidson turned to stand up for therapeutic means. it was not long before davidson starting making regular television appearances on shows like “wild and out,” “brooklyn nine-nine” and “guy code.” 
performing at colleges can be a bit of a chal­lenge, as davidson explained to me. “performing for a younger audience is usually weird … there’s also that thing like, ‘you’re my age, why are we listening to you,’ like ‘i am older than you and about to graduate college and you didn’t even go to college, why am i listening to you tell dick jokes?’” Though with the strong support notre dame will bring, davidson should have no prob­lem finding his comfort zone on legends stage on Friday. 
Adam: Hey Pete, I know it’s a little late but I wanted to congratulate you on being the first SNL cast member born in the 90s. As a nineties child myself, how is it representing us? 
Pete: It’s been a lot of fun. It’s horrifying but a lot of fun. 
Yeah, I would imagine. What’s it like working alongside such experienced comics being as young as you are? 
It’s a learning thing, a learning experience. Those dudes are the best at what they do. As a standup going into that, it’s just learning a lot. They are all the best at what they do, the smartest writers, the most experienced improv. It’s great to learn from the best of the best. 
Is the element of fun still there in all of it? 
Oh it’s always fun. I mean it’s nerve-racking but still a lot of fun, I definitely enjoy it. 
And what about the pace, I know a lot of young comics take time getting used to the fast pace of SNL. 
I am still learning that, I am better with that now. I didn’t realize how crazy it is. When people are running around all day. The work hours are crazy, and I am still getting used to it now. 
Being the youngest cast member, is there stuff you will reference and the older cast member won’t catch it? 
Yea, that happens too. Like nobody knew who Bobby Shmurda was, just stupid stuff like that. 
That’s funny. 
Yeah, I know, but for the most part they are all pretty up to date on things. 
Now when you do shows at colleges, do you find that you like performing for a younger au­dience better, or do you like the broader audi­ence you get with SNL? 
I mean I started doing standup when I was like 16, so standup is my favorite, you can do whatever you want, you can curse. It’s fun, there’s not a lot of stress when you do standup. Performing for a younger audience is usually weird. Colleges are ei­ther great or they’re not; it’s very hard to explain. Most of the time they suck. 
I can assure Notre Dame will try it’s hardest to not suck. 
Hahaha I’m kidding, but it is weird. Performing for kids your age is weird. 
Now what advice would you give to a comic like yourself, experiencing these things, trying to make it in a field that sees more older people. 

Well, if you want to become a comic just get on stage as much as you possibly can. That’s the only advice I really have. The more stage time you get the better you’re gonna get. You know, nobody is good the first time they start. You know I still suck. 
No, you’re great Pete! 

No, but I mean it takes awhile to get really great. Like if you look at great comics like Bill Burr or Louie CK, they are all 25 years in. So my advice is like don’t get discouraged if things don’t go well the first couple times. 
And I have to say that for a comic with your young age, I have always recognized your con­fidence, both in standup, like when you did Kimmel, and in SNL, which is something you don’t see in most young comics. Is this some­thing you have accumulated through your experience or have you always had that confi­dence on stage. 
It’s really weird; I have zero confidence in life and then on stage, for some reason, I feel very comfortable. It a really odd thing. I mean, I wasn’t that comfortable on stage when I first started, but I have always been okay with the whole getting on stage thing, and I have no idea why. But in liter­ally every other aspect of life, I am the most awk­ward person in the world. 
Well, I guess you found your element then. 
Yeah, I mean I guess everybody finds their thing, but still it’s a weird thing. Like I am very awkward in conversation, then I can just talk about my dick for an hour, it’s just the weirdest thing in the world. 
Now this past year you have done so many different projects, what has been the most fun and what are you most proud of? 
SNL has to be the thing that is the most fun and the thing I am most proud of because it is all very legendary to host the show and it’s just cool to be a part of it. That’s probably what I am most proud of, just because my mom watches it. You know what I mean? Like older people watch it, it’s not just kids our age that watch it. It’s nice when like some old dude is getting his cup of cof­fee, and they’re like, “Hey Pete, great show!” That’s awesome. 
I think that’s the best part of SNL — there is something for everyone. 
It’s nice to do a show that older and more ma­ture people watch, rather than just kids our age that most of the time are kinda dicks, from what I experience. 
I can see that. 

Most kids are like “Oh f*** that s***.” I don’t know, but in New York, every kid I grew up with was kinda like that. 
Yea I’m from northern New Jersey, so I kind of know what you mean. And that’s I all I got, thanks from speaking with me, and I look for­ward to seeing your show! 
Thank you man! 

Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 




Erin McAuliffe 
scene writer 

whether you watched the super bowl or not, you have seen the dancing sharks from the halftime show. 
These dancing sharks are a game changer. you may think, “what’s the big deal about a couple of cute, friendly, dancing sharks?” The big deal is that it's a statement. 
sharks have the reputation of bloodthirsty killers, and they are represented as such in the media. it start­ed with “Jaws” and the effect has lent itself to “shark week” and movies like recent release “unbroken.” 
The image of sharks feeding on humans is frequent in the media; however, statistics show that sharks are responsible for, on average, less than five deaths each year. contrasted to the upwards of 273 million sharks killed each year by humans, decide which species de­serves the horror films. 
one of the scariest “horror films” i’ve seen, and the reason i became so interested in the perils sharks face, was “sharkwater.” a 2006 documentary by rob stewart, “sharkwater” explores and exposes the shark finning industry and its atrocious effects. 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

maybe i’m insane, but i have a lot of déjà vu moments in my dreams. when i wake up from a particularly con­fusing one, i’ll spend the first minutes of consciousness trying to sort it all out. did i have a dream similar to the one i just had? had something in my dream already occured in my ‘real life?’ or, being in the weird dream-space mentality, had i mistakenly recognized some­thing that i had never in fact seen? most times, there are simply no ways of knowing. and sometimes, it will come to me in an intense moment of revelation, shock­ing my system before i realize how trivial or meaning­less the actual moment was. 
The eponymous debut album of “all we are” is one such dream: full to the brim with familiar indie-rock sounds without recognizable sources. snippets of the xx, bombay bicycle club, blood orange, alt-J and a hundred other groups float rather indistinguishably through the mix. crisp guitar lines, creamy bass and airy female-male harmonies float over crystal-clear drums. precise production fills the sound spectrum with well-managed highs and lows. The hip, clean sound of the record stays within very accessible bounds, never attempting to challenge or even grab the listener. instead, “all we are” is a record that fills the space it 
shark fin soup, a chinese delicacy banned in the u.s., sells for over $100 a bowl. The fin only adds status to the soup: no flavor, nutritional or medicinal value. 
To obtain the meat, fishermen catch sharks, hack off their fins and discard the rest of the shark back into the ocean. Finless, the sharks will bleed to death or, as they are unable to swim or defend themselves, be eaten. The barbaric process rivals any “shark week” attack we see on Tv. 
successful documentaries on other controversial aquatic practices have risen since. “The cove” (2009) exposed dolphin abuse and harmful health effects in Japan, and “blackfish” (2013) has garnered main­stream attention for calling out killer whale captivity practices, specifically at seaworld. 
The international union for conservation of nature estimates that one-third of all shark species are near­ing extinction. in the past few decades the populations of some shark species have decreased by over eighty percent (muskegon chronicle). perhaps these num­bers are not appalling to the public because of sharks’ reputations, but even if sharks are not held favor­ably in peoples’ minds, the whole oceanic ecosystem would suffer from the loss of these sometimes feared, predators. 
inhabits very well but never exerts command over it. it’s enjoyable and versatile yet completely forgettable. 
predictably enough, “all we are” is at its best when it’s at its catchiest. singles “stone” and “keep me alive” are easily two steps ahead of the album’s other tracks. a floating Tycho-esque guitar line anchors “stone,” pro­pelling the track through a high-reverb cavern of easy vocal melodies. ultimately, the song crescendos into an airy groove punctuated with glowing electric guitar notes, transcending the record’s general pleasantness. 
“keep me alive” boasts perhaps the record’s best chorus. more importantly, it stretches the band’s boundaries beyond the limitations that the rest of their record suggests. The drums and distorted guitar man­age to break through the otherwise smooth production style. a strong vocal performance that recalls Florence and the machine complements these rough edges beautifully. 
however, the rest of the record simply resigns to be­ing pleasant indie music. The intro to the album, a loop of soft mishmash lo-fi piano and bleepy bloops, is far from attention-grabbing. Following track, "ebb/Flow,” has at its heart a painfully subdued distorted bass syn­thesizer — think alt-J’s “Fitzpleasure” declawed. “Feel safe” has a single notably ingredient — a rising “want you-u!” in the background of the chorus — that shares space with a relatively uninspiring tropical groove. 

Thankfully, katy perry did sharks everywhere a favor by providing us with performing — or improvis­ing if you were the left shark — “Teenage dream” and “california girls” during the super bowl half-time show. The internet has been swimming with shark memes, vines and buzzfeed articles — someone even got a tattoo of one of the sharks. There hasn’t been this much excitement over dancing sea creatures since amanda bynes brought out the dancing lobsters. 
The press is all positive, besides the questioning of left shark’s coordination, and have headlines like “The best part of the super bowl,” “left shark was The real super bowl mvp” and “The dancing shark was hot.” 
search “shark” on buzzfeed and you will find eight super bowl shark articles and quizzes, but look past those and the next headline is “Two monster sharks are eating dolphins and closing beaches.” 
maybe if we can keep sharks dancing, we can keep them swimming, and hopefully their appearance at the super bowl will lead to fewer appearances in soup bowls. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“all we are” is a record that plays its subject matter far too safely. it’s clear that the young band has man­aged to find a signature sound, but that sound doesn’t stand out against the huge number of electronic-tinged indie bands that flood today’s music scene. however, there are several moments on the record that hint at a much brighter, more exciting future for all we are. The aforementioned “keep me alive” and “stone” as well as the relentlessly energetic and propulsive “honey” push the group’s boundaries and make for very satisfying indie grooves. if all we are continues in the direction of energy and experimentation, they’ll be living the dream very soon indeed. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“All We Are” 
All We Are 

Label: Rubyworks Tracks: “Stone,” “Honey,” “Keep Me Alive” If you like: Blood Orange, Bonbay Bicycle Club 


EMILY DANAHER | The Observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Time for golf to let go of Tiger 
Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
contrary to popular be­lief, while 114.5 million peo­ple were watching the super bowl this past weekend, other sporting events did actually occur. 
one actually happened a mere 30 minutes from the super bowl — the waste management phoenix open, the best-attended event in golf. it drew 564,368 fans over four days. 
now, why am i talking about golf in February, you ask? because sunday, Tiger woods was on his couch after missing the cut in the phoenix open due to an opening-round 82 Friday. sunday was also the day world no. 1 rory mcilroy coasted to a three-shot vic­tory in a prominent european Tour event, the dubai desert classic. 
golf fans and television ex­ecutives can cling to Tiger as long as they want, but the changing of the guard is upon us. 
Tiger just tumbled out of the top-50 in the official world golf rankings, putting him in jeopardy of missing future major tournaments. 
besides that, Tiger’s game is nowhere to be found. i mean, the guy duffed nine chip shots at the hero world challenge in december. 
“i obviously need to clean up my short game,” Tiger said afterwards. “That still needs a lot of work.” 
Tiger, correct me if i’m wrong, but didn’t you have four months off to work on your short game while recov­ering from injury? 
but let’s give Tiger the ben­efit of the doubt, throw out his 2014 season and chalk it up to his back problems. he returned in 2015 for the aforementioned hero world challenge, and subsequently tied for last place, a mind-bog­gling 26 shots back of winner Jordan spieth. Then last week, he missed the cut and tied for dead last at the phoenix open. 
let’s compare these results to Tiger’s performance re­turning to the Tour in 2009 after tearing his acl the pre­vious season. Then, in his first nine tournaments, he had eight top-10 finishes, includ­ing three victories. 
“This feels like [caddie stevie williams and i] hadn’t left,” woods said after win­ning the arnold palmer invitational in 2009, his third tournament back. “you just remember how to do it.” 
compare that with woods’ comments after the hero world challenge. 
“it’s a process to get back to that level,” woods said. “you have to build up to it. and, you know, i’ve got some time.” 
except … he doesn’t. Tiger is 39 and hasn’t won a major since 2008. needless to say, time is not on Tiger’s side. 
i’ve rambled on about Tiger for far too long. who we really should be focusing on is his heir apparent, rory mcilroy. 
rory is “it.” he’s the new “guy,” and people need to start realizing this. he won three consecutive tourna­ments that he entered in late summer, two of which were major championships. he’s finished in the top-10 in 10 of his last 11 tournaments around the world, including first or second in five straight. 
sounds like the unequivo­cal best player of the moment to me. and he’s only 25. 
here are some snippets from his press conference af­ter the win in dubai this past week: 
“i feel like i can keep this run of form going and there’s no reason why i shouldn’t.” 
“it’s not a bad thing, i guess, finishing second, but … i sat here wednesday saying that i didn’t want to finish second anymore.” 
“am i at the peak of my powers? i’d like to think that i could still get better.” 
mcilroy is brimming with confidence. To him, it’s win or bust, just like the Tiger of years past. 
rory should be the favorite to win the masters at augusta in april, and really every tournament he enters. yet if Tiger’s there, you can bet that half the television coverage will be devoted to following him around, because that’s who america still cares about. 
at this week’s Farmers insurance open, Tiger is a 50-1 long shot, among the worst odds of his career. people will still bet on him, though, not because they think he has any chance to win, but because they want the old Tiger back. 
Tiger was amazing for the game of golf. he has been the biggest bargaining chip for the pga Tour’s television deals. he’s brought golf into the realm of modern sports. he was a force for over a de­cade. but now it’s time for the golf world to give somebody else a chance to be its savior and superstar — enter rory mcilroy. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
NFL 

Seattle tries to rebound from Super Bowl loss 
Associated Press 
seaTTle — as shocking as it was, the seattle seahawks’ last-minute loss to the new england patriots in the super bowl sunday was probably not even the worst loss in the city’s sports history. 
seattle did lose an entire nba franchise, after all, when the supersonics up and moved to oklahoma city. at least the seahawks will be playing again next season. 
but the grief, anger and bewilderment felt by many seahawks fans nevertheless show only mild signs of abat­ing, even days later. many say they’re certain the decision to pass from the 1-yard line — in­stead of handing off to bruis­ing running back marshawn lynch — will forever haunt the northwest the way previous sporting gaffes defined other cities. 
“i’ll be 90 years old and still thinking about this game,” said norb caoili, a longtime season-ticket holder from renton. “The history of sports is defined by moments like this, where heroes rise and save the day, or where teams collapse on the biggest stages. it’s always going to be a part of the fabric of seattle, and that’s tough to swallow.” 
caoili, 45, is the force be­hind norb-cam, a youTube channel that features videos of himself — wearing a green wig, seahawks headband, and blue-and-green face paint — reacting to the action during seahawks games. The videos have been viewed an improb­able number of times, making him a prominent voice among hawks fans. 
For him, the way the seahawks lost is what makes it so tough: moments ear­lier, the team seemed on the brink of a miraculous victory, with receiver Jermaine kearse making an inconceivable, bobbling, falling catch despite great coverage from patriots rookie malcolm butler. it was a gift from the football gods, “divine intervention” that sig­naled a certain seahawks vic­tory, he said. 

lynch’s subsequent run, bringing the ball to the 1 with the clock ticking down, only fortified that impression. 
caoili’s video from the super bowl — tickets $2,700 apiece, airfare and lodging $1,400 — shows him chanting a mantra for lynch to get the ball: “give it to him again, give it to him again, give it to him again.” 
The decision to pass, then, becomes not just “the worst play call i’ve seen in the histo­ry of football,” as hall of Fame running back emmitt smith described it, but an affront to the gods, a sort of cardinal sin punished by instant karma: butler’s goal-line interception, and new england’s fourth championship of the Tom brady-bill belichick era. 
it was an epic failure, akin to the ground ball through bill buckner’s legs that helped sink the 1986 red sox or the “wide right” field goal attempt in 1991 that proved to be the first of four consecutive super bowl losses for the buffalo bills. 
“emotionally, it would have been better to lose 43-8,” caoili said, referring to the score by which the seahawks beat denver in last year’s super bowl. “There’s nothing worse than having it in your hand and losing it all.” 
caoili and other fans said that even if the loss sticks with the team, and the re­gion, a few more super bowl championships could take the edge off. odds-makers have seattle 5-to-1 favorites to win it all next year. in the seattle suburb of renton, where the seahawks are headquartered, fans left balloons and signs for the team in a memorial thank­ing them for a great season. “we still believe,” said one. 
vu le, a 33-year-old vietnamese immigrant who runs a seattle nonprofit, knew nothing about profes­sional sports when he started cheering for the seahawks during the team’s super bowl run last year. on his blog, he tried to draw lessons from the loss for the nonprofit world, spelling out what he 
called  seattle’s  “stages  of  
grief”:  “denial,  righteous  
anger,  hot  yoga,  organic  

Juice cleanse, bargaining at a Farmer’s market, composting, existential despair, biking to happy hour, and acceptance . of marijuana.” 
le said Tuesday he doesn’t regret getting on the seahawks bandwagon. 
“when you care about some­thing, you risk getting your heart just squished,” he said. “but when they win, like last year, it was amazing.” 
kris brannon, a local su­perfan best known as “sonics guy,” has been wearing his green-and-gold and his im­pressive afro to events around the northwest in the years since the team became the oklahoma city Thunder in 2008. he put the super bowl loss in perspective. 
“i wish the sonics had a chance to lose a champion­ship,” he said. 
NBA 

Oden strikes plea deal to settle battery charges 
Associated Press 
indianapolis — Former nba no. 1 draft pick greg oden has struck a plea deal with prosecutors to settle battery charges involving a former girlfriend. 
The indianapolis star re­ported Tuesday that oden pleaded guilty in december to felony battery with moderate bodily injury while three other charges were dismissed. 

court documents say a judge fined oden $200 and ordered him to complete 26 weeks of domestic violence counseling, alcohol coun­seling and 909 days of pro­bation. a no-contact order also was put into place. 
oden was arrested in his hometown of lawrence last august after allegedly punching the woman in the face. 
a message seeking com­ment was left for odon’s attorney. 
portland made the former ohio state star the top pick in 2007 but knee injuries largely derailed oden’s pro­fessional career. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


SMC BASKETBALL | hope 72, smc 45 
Belles start hot, fade fast against Flying Dutch 
lead by a score of 10-5 five half, and hope went into the 
By MICHAEL IVEY 

sports writer minutes into the first half, locker room at the half with at one point leading by six a 44-21 advantage. 
in the second matchup of a points. after both teams “we got off to a great start five-game home stand, saint traded scores over the next with hope,” belles coach mary’s lost to nationally-three minutes, the belles Jennifer henley said. “we ranked hope on saturday held a 14-9 advantage with didn’t shoot the best during by a final score of 72-45 at 12 minutes to go in the first that game, and hope did a angela athletic Facility, half. great job keeping us off the dropping to last place in the From there on out, how-offensive boards. we had too miaa. ever, the Flying dutch broke many turnovers in the first 
The belles (3-17, 1-10 out, going on a 28-2 run over half that certainly allowed miaa) got off to a fast start the next seven minutes to hope to go on a run.” against the no. 12 Flying take the lead, 37-16, with while the belles held the dutch (18-2, 10-1 miaa) and five minutes left in the first overall rebounding edge for 
the game, 49-43, they com­mitted 25 turnovers, nine more than hope. 
The second half was much more even, with saint mary’s holding hope to only 28 points while scoring 26 of its own. by then, however, the Flying dutch were able to cruise to a 27-point vic­tory, deploying ten players off their bench, all of whom played eight minutes or more. 

senior guard ariana paul led the belles in points with 13, to go along with eight rebounds and seven steals, while junior forward eleni shea had 11 points, six re­bounds and one steal. Junior forward krista knapke fol­lowed with six points, 11 re­bounds and one steal, while junior guard maddie kohler scored five points and added range, the belles converted game against adrian. The four rebounds. Junior guard only one of seven attempts matchup will be the third of sarah macius collected four for a 3-point percentage of five straight home games for points and three rebounds, 14.3 percent. The Flying the belles, as well as one of and sophomore forward dutch, on the other hand, their final five miaa games. kelsey ronan put up two had a 31.6 3-point percent-“adrian has a very bal­points, six rebounds and one age. The belles made two-anced scoring attack,” steal. thirds of their free throws, henley said. “They are quick 
The belles shot just 26.2 while the Flying dutch shot in the transition game and percent from the field for 14-18 from the charity stripe. look to attack the paint. we the whole game, while the saint mary’s next takes have to find a way to slow Flying dutch had a 40.0 field the court wednesday night, them down and focus on get-goal percentage. From long when it plays a conference ting stops defensively.” 
The belles face the paid adverTisemenT 

bulldogs on wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in angela athletic Facility. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 






Fennelly 
conTinued From page 16 
sport from an early age, she said. 
“i actually started play­ing when i was really young, probably three or four, and i hated it, so i quit,” Fennelly said. 
Fortunately for the irish, Fennelly gave tennis anoth­er shot. 
“i picked it up again when i was 10, and haven’t really stopped since,” Fennelly said. 
Fennelly said she has some high hopes for herself and her team, which has a match against no. 8 stanford loom­ing Friday. 
“This is my first season in the starting lineup, and i had a good first win in the match this weekend, and i hope i can just improve upon that, get better with each week and help my team out as much as i can,” Fennelly said. 
gleason expressed admi­ration for Fennelly’s abil­ity to transition to tennis in america. 
“This summer i studied abroad in dublin, ireland, for six weeks and i was able to see the club Jane plays at when she’s home. it’s really impressive how good Jane is considering she practices primarily on astroturf when she’s home. i hit on them a little when i was there and it felt like i was playing a total­ly different game,” gleason said. “also, Jane was an amazing field hockey player and had offers at other d-i schools for that. Jane is one of the hardest working peo­ple i’ve ever met, she does more off-court work than anyone else on the team, and i think it’s really helped her game in the last year.” 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 






Casey 
conTinued From page 16 
place she wanted to be. 

“i always compared every­thing to notre dame,” said casey. “when i was looking at schools, swimming was a big priority of mine obvi­ously, along with academics and everything else. but my parents actually forced me to look at other schools. and i did like other schools, but this feels like home to me and it was just the perfect place. This was no other place that i wanted to go honestly.” 
Throughout her career at notre dame, casey has ac­complished a great deal. Two milestones in particular, however, stand out to her, she said. The first of these accomplishments was quali­fying for the ncaa champi­onships, which she was able to do twice. 
“definitely making ncaas my sophomore and my junior year, that was a big highlight of mine,” casey said. “That was always a dream to make it to that meet and kind of be at that elite level.” 
The second of these ac­complishments was more personal in nature. in her sophomore year, casey broke the school record in the 200­yard butterfly, which she then broke again her junior year at the acc champion­ships with a time of 1:56.52. The previous record-holder was her older sister. 
“i was always looking at the record,” casey said. “and i think she knew eventually i would break it. it actually meant a lot to me because it was her record and i really wanted that record. and it was actually interesting be­cause when my dad swam here, he had the 200 fly pool record, and his pool record was 1:57.4 and the first time i broke it, i had a 1:57.4 so it was kind of weird. but then breaking it again last year, that was great. it was my best time ever and i made ncaas again. it was unbelievable, a very humbling experience, and it was my goal.” 
in the end, however, when she looks back on her career at notre dame, casey says that she will most fondly re­member being a part of her team. 
“we have a very unique culture,” casey said. “we’re very close-knit; we’re all best friends; we’re a huge family. we make memories in and out of the pool, in the so­cial world, in the classroom, like everywhere on campus. They’ve shaped like every­thing that was notre dame for me.” 
casey will take the pool at home for one last time when the irish take on cleveland state this saturday at noon in rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 




M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
points per game) and 190th in field goal percentage (43.2 percent). They are led by ju­nior guard olivier hanlan, who holds the team-high in scoring with 16.4 points per game. 
while hanlan’s average is close to that of grant, notre dame’s leading scorer (17.3 ppg), the rest of the eagles have struggled to keep up in scoring efficiency. no one on boston college’s roster who has attempted more than 100 shots has a field goal percentage above 46.3 percent, while all of notre dame’s starters are shooting at least 48.3 percent from the floor. 
in addition, the eagles are shooting just over 30 percent from beyond the arc, while the irish are making 40 per­cent of their 3-point field goals. brey’s implementa­tion of a smaller five-guard offense has been key to notre dame’s offense, which is ranked second in the na­tion in field goal percentage, he said. 
“i think what had helped us was going with a small lineup and the floor was more open,” brey said. 
The eagles, who won just three of their last 11 games, are allowing their opponents to score over 64 points per game, which is ranked 137th in the country. The irish, on the other hand, have scored at least 72 points in their last five games. 
as the second half of the 
season  continues,  sopho­ 
more  guard  demetrius  
Jackson  is  convinced  the  

team will only continue to get better. 
“i definitely think we have a strong confidence and swagger about this team,” Jackson said. “The best part about our team is that we can continue to get better and we haven’t reached our peak yet. guys are just striv­ing to get better everyday.” 
The irish will tip off at 7 p.m tonight against the eagles at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 







CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


DOME NUTS | aleXandria wellman 


HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Jump into action. be vocal about your plans and intentions. strive for quality and building a strong, stable professional future. Take hold of your personal situation and bring about whatever change is required in order to reach your dreams, destinations or long-term goals. keep an open mind and prepare to experiment and perfect as you go along. your numbers are 8, 15, 17, 21, 34, 37, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): direct your energy wisely. keep your mind on what’s important, not on what others are doing, and you will reach your goal. a social encounter will spark a renewed interest in something or someone that you used to find inspiring. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t take anything or anyone for granted. you may know what you want to do, but expect to face opposition. don’t be daunted by comments or criticism. Focus on finishing what you start and accommodating others only when possible.  


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t expect to receive help from others and you won’t be disappointed. making changes to your home or professional direction will turn out to be a good investment. learn new skills and don’t let a personal relationship limit what you can do.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): get down to business and you will excel. a partnership will be problematic if you are too compliant. don’t make a hasty decision that can have costly results. it’s ok to do things differently or to follow your own path.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you may be all wrapped up in your personal relationships and trying to make changes to the way you live, but you should be focusing on financial and contractual matters that have the potential to turn costly.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): keep your thoughts and feelings to yourself. someone will use personal information against you if you are too open. Take time out for self-improvement and raising your level of confidence. don’t give in to emotional blackmail or demanding individuals.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t fight the inevitable. go with the flow and see where it takes you. The changes that take place will turn out surprisingly well. use your intelligence and take advantage of an emotional opportunity. don’t limit what you can do.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Follow your heart, not what you hear. gather information and come to your own conclusions before you make a choice. a change in the way you do things will help you avoid someone who wants to take control or shove you aside.  

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen carefully, but do your own fact-finding. The information you gather will clear up issues you have been concerned about, allowing you to move forward and make positive personal changes at home. act fast and finish what you start.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take care of pressing family matters. get involved in your community and you will be able to control the outcome of a situation that could affect an investment that concerns you. an old friend or lover will give you something to think about. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): emotional matters will surface. don’t put off what must be taken care of immediately. you can’t move forward without clearing a path. it’s out with the old and in with the new. raise pressing issues and secure your future.  

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in organizational events that allow you to meet interesting and informative individuals. sharing your thoughts will spark interest and lead to unexpected opportunities. mix business with pleasure and you’ll make a new and very valuable acquaintance. 


Birthday Baby: you are outgoing, entertaining and endearing. you are passionate and protective. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Banking on a bounce-back 

No. 10 Irish to try to rebound after upset loss to Pitt in home match against struggling Boston College 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after notre dame dropped two spots in the ap poll monday due to saturday’s upset loss to pittsburgh, the now-no. 10 irish will play host to a struggling boston college at purcell pavilion tonight. 
The irish (20-3, 8-2 acc) are off to their best start since 1978-79, when notre dame also posted a 20-3 mark. after its previous two losses, notre dame has bounced back quickly, posting an 11­game winning streak after its loss to providence on nov. 23, and the irish had a five-game winning streak heading into the pittsburgh game after losing to then-no. 2 virginia on Jan. 10. 
looking at the box score from saturday’s 76-72 loss, notre dame continued its torrid shooting, hitting 53 percent from the field and almost 40 percent from be­hind the arc, but most of the those shots came dur­ing a late surge in the second half, led by nine points from senior guard Jerian grant. however, the run at the end of the game was not enough to edge the panthers, even though the irish led at one point. irish coach mike brey said it was notre dame’s de­fense, not offense, that held the team back. 
“They were really in a groove offensively, and i think our defense hurt us today, we could never get enough stops to really win the game,” brey said. “we were scoring the whole time and this group has been able to get stops, especially in the last seven or eight minutes, to usually escape. we got a couple of stops, but could never get enough to really believe, and then they got re­ally confident offensively.” 
back at home against the eagles (9-11, 1-7), the irish defense will go up against one of the less efficient at­tacks in the nation. boston college is ranked 257th out of 345 teams in scoring (64.2 
see m bball PAGE 14 


MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Irish sophomore guard Demetrius Jackson drives to the basket during Notre Dame’s 77-73 win over Duke at Purcell Pavilion on Jan. 28. 
WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Casey races to finish off 
Fennelly brings 
long family legacy 
ireland to nd 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
“she’s a short person, but she has a very big heart,” irish coach Tim welsh said. “she’s a gentle person, but she’s an intense competi­tor. she’s a loving person, but she’s very disciplined.
 just think she combines a lot of the characteristics that you want to see in not just a great athlete, but also a person who is going to be a great leader in life, a great performer in life. i think she has all the tools.” 
This was the praise welsh had for irish senior bridget casey. 
after celebrating senior day last weekend at the final shamrock invitational of her college career, casey is near­ing the end of an era for her family. she grew up bleeding blue and gold, watching her father, uncle and two sisters all graduate and compete on the swimming and diving team at notre dame. 
“i’ve known about notre dame my entire life,” casey said. “you know the little kids running around in cheerleading outfits at foot­ball games? i was one of those kids. so this was defi­nitely like my dream school. i’ve always wanted to come here.” 

in fact, when casey was making her college decision four years ago, her parents had to force her to look at other schools just so she was sure notre dame was the 
see casey PAGE 13 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

sophomore and ireland native Jane Fennelly came a long way to play tennis at notre dame, but the trip seems worthwhile given her 3-0 record in both dou­bles and singles matches in 2015 so far. 
her win streak was high­lighted by wins over no. 15 michigan on sunday, though the no. 19 irish as a team fell to the wolverines, 5-2. 
“i was really proud of Jane this weekend, as she won both her singles and doubles matches,” irish ju­nior Quinn gleason said. “she has been working re­ally hard, so i’m excited to see that her effort is really paying off.” 
Fennelly’s reasons for coming to notre dame were far from traditional. 
“i’m from dublin, and i first connected with notre dame when the football team was playing navy [in 2012], and the men’s ten­nis team came with them to play against my national team [the irish david cup team] in ireland,” Fennelly said. “so that’s how i first got introduced to notre dame. i talked to the men’s team, and they helped me get in here. Thank god they did, or i wouldn’t be here. i’m really enjoying my time here so far.” 
Fennelly said adjusting to life at notre dame and life in america was challenging initially. 
“at first, the adjust­ment to american life was tough,” Fennelly said, “but it wasn’t as hard as i kind of expected. The people here are so welcoming, espe­cially once i made friends, which was easy to do here. Then everything got a lot easier.” 
Fennelly has had a love-hate relationship with her 
see Fennelly PAGE 12 



