

The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
nick martin: the cen­terpiece of notre dame’s offense. 
not sophomore quarter­back deshone Kizer, not ju­nior receiver Will Fuller, not even senior running back 
c.J. Prosise. It’s graduate student center and captain nick martin that propels the Irish attack forward. 
That’s not martin’s opin­ion. It’s what his teammates say. 
“he’s the guy that makes it go,” Prosise said of martin. “Without him, we couldn’t have a well-oiled machine like we do. And just his lead­ership on the field and what he does for our team has been amazing.” 
As martin goes, so does notre dame’s offensive line. And as the o-line goes, so does the Irish of­fense. Through the first four games of the year, the front five dominated, opening up massive holes for Prosise to run through for 600 yards and six rushing touchdowns and protecting the quarter­back to the tune of just five sacks. 
With martin at center and senior ronnie stanley at left tackle, the Irish line features what many pundits consider future nFL talent. Add that to one of the best rushing games in the country, and notre dame seemed primed to ride the run all season long. 
“As an [offensive] line­man we love to run the ball,” martin said sept. 30. “We like when we have success. Going back to our running backs, the way they run … it’s unbelievable. Up front, we work our butts off to try and make holes and do our best.” 
Then came last weekend’s game against clemson. In the pouring rain, martin and the line struggled, al­lowing four sacks and five other tackles for loss in a 24-22 defeat to the Tigers. Prosise had 50 yards on 15 attempts and was hit at or before the line of scrimmage on 44 percent of his touches, according to esPn. 
Prosise did not blame the line for notre dame’s rush­ing struggles, and martin said the Irish were bound to experience a setback at some point. 
“I can never say our o-line did a bad job in that game. They did everything they could. When you’re running the ball and there’s a safety in the hole that I’m run­ning to every time, it’s hard to block that guy. They’re not accounting for that guy, there’s only five of them,” Prosise said. 
“We played this game a long time, and you know you’re not going to be able to rush for 200 yards every game, that’s not reality,” martin said. 
After the game, martin’s fellow graduate student and captain Joe schmidt said no one on notre dame would smile for the next week. on Wednesday, the linebacker said he was still “livid” over the loss. 
martin was also upset af­ter the loss, saying the Irish were “too good of a team to come down and lose this game.” 
but by Tuesday, he said, he had turned his focus to navy, refusing to let the de­feat bother him anymore. 
“Yeah, anger, you know,” martin said of his emotions 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
following the game. “It was definitely not easy to lose. but you win a game, you lose a game. You sit down, watch the film, learn from mis­takes. Go on and get ready for navy. 
“[I] definitely have a chip on the shoulder. but I put it to rest after monday.” 
That determination to move on is key to martin’s leadership style, he said. After five years at notre dame, three starting and two as a captain, he has learned to stay level-head­ed and consistent for his teammates. 
“I always look to give the same every day. Whether it’s adversity [or] good times, people have to be able to rely on you to be that same guy,” martin said. “I try to be the same guy every day.” 
Toiling away, martin has been about as consistent as anybody else on the line this season so far. And that makes him invisible to most fans. Almost always, the only time an offensive lineman’s name is spoken during the game is when he is called for a penalty. so far, martin has been flagged just twice this year, both for false starts. 






but that anonymity doesn’t mean martin’s teammates don’t recognize his consis­tent play in the trenches. 
“he’s always the same, he’s always out there, the same leader, the same guy every day,” Prosise said. “he’s al­ways encouraging, he’s al­ways motivating. It’s great to have him as the leader of our offense because we can always look to him to be pos­itive and look to him for that leadership. he’s an amazing guy, and I’m glad that’s the guy I get to run behind every day.” 
That consistency has helped to put martin in a small circle of two-time cap­tains for notre dame. he and senior defensive line­man sheldon day joined that group at the beginning of this season, bringing the to­tal to 21 in program history. 
“[It’s a] very special sense of pride,” martin said of the honor. “It’s probably one of those things that won’t hit you until you leave. Just to represent all those peo­ple that came before you, I think, is the biggest thing. You look up on the wall, and you see all those amazing people that came before you, and you represent them.” 
one of those people who came before martin is his older brother, Zack. Another two-time captain, Zack martin last suited up for the Irish in 2013 and has since become an All-Pro lineman with the dallas cowboys. 
by watching and playing alongside Zack, nick grew into his own as a leader, he said. he also developed an appreciation for the consis­tency of notre dame’s of­fensive line — not only from week to week, but over the span of years. 
“It’s about the people that come before you,” martin said sept. 30. “The o-lines, having guys like chris Watt, Zack martin, christian Lombard, those guys, and even before that, the o-line at notre dame, especially in the ’90s and ever since then, has always been a sense of pride, and we just try to car­ry that on.” 
carrying on meant weath­ering a positional shuffle in 2014 after three games, as martin transitioned from center to left guard. Then, in spring practice this year, he went back to center, even as question of to whom he would snap the ball — everett Golson or junior malik Zaire — remained up in the air. 
For the most part, martin and the offensive line has been spared the injury bug that overtook notre dame early this season. but they did have to deal with big changes in personnel around them, as Prosise and Kizer took over in the backfield. still, martin emphasized consistency when it came to adapting to those changes. 
“It’s business as usual. We like to keep things the same up front, we have to prepare the same way, and we gotta play the same way. doesn’t matter who’s behind us,” martin said after Kizer took over for the injured Zaire. 
Keeping the offensive line humming along is not much of a challenge for martin. dating back to the days of his brother, the unit has al­ways been close-knit on and off the field, and as a leader last year, he spent time with the younger lineman talking about life outside football. 
but as the only offensive captain this season, martin has expanded his role in that regard to include other posi­tion groups. his consistency and skill on the field, though, are not quite the same in the other pastimes he shares with his teammates. 
“I’m not a big video game guy,” martin said. “ … I don’t even know why I’m telling you this, but we had a league, [and] Will Fuller literally beat me by about 100 points in madden. so that explains to you how bad I am.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


COMMENTARY 

Performance will set tone for rest of season 


Alex Carson 
Associate sports editor 
The situations are pretty similar. 
A year ago, notre dame traveled to Tallahassee, Florida, had a chance at the goal line in the final minute to win the game against top Acc contender Florida state in primetime and came up just short. The first chance for the Irish to bounce back was against navy. 
on saturday, notre dame traveled to clemson, south carolina, had a chance from three yards out to send the game to overtime against top Acc contender clemson in primetime and came up just short. 
And this week, the Irish once more have a chance to bounce back against the midshipmen. 
Granted, a lot about the two games went different — notre dame played its best game of the season last year at Florida state and didn’t this year at clemson — but the spot the team finds it­self in is much the same: Win out, and the Irish have a chance at being one of the four teams in the playoff. but lose, and it’s all done and dusted. 
Like last year, navy pro­vides a perfect opportunity for the Irish to stake their claim to being in the race. 
A year ago though, notre dame didn’t. After taking the bye week off, the Irish went to Landover, maryland, and looked pretty lacklus­ter in a 49-39 win over navy that became more about “surviving” another week than anything else — es­pecially when Joe schmidt went down. 
While the Irish got through that game against navy with a win last year, the uninspiring perfor­mance set the tone for the rest of the season. A big matchup at no. 11 Arizona state followed, in which the Irish found themselves down 34-3 before halftime. 
subsequent losses to northwestern, Louisville and Usc capped off a miser­able end to what was once such a promising season. 
This year, the story’s much of the same. After navy’s visit this weekend, no. 17 Usc is set to hit notre dame stadium before the team’s bye week over fall break. Then a tricky trip to Temple waits, and four weeks later, a visit to no. 16 stanford could be the deciding factor in a potential playoff push. 
but that push has to start this weekend against the midshipmen. Led by star senior quarterback Keenan reynolds, navy is one of the better teams the Irish will face the rest of the way, and the game affords a grand opportunity for notre dame to make a statement on how the rest of its season will pan out. 
And you’d have to think a veteran-led team like notre dame should have no issues learning from its mistakes down the stretch last year. 
sure, injuries took a toll on last year’s team — and they already have this year — but the quintet of captains needs to ensure there’s not a let down from the squad this week. 
In theory, with four cap­tains on the defensive side of the ball (and a strong per­formance against Georgia Tech’s triple option scheme already in the books this season), the Irish defense shouldn’t have much of an issue with the midshipmen. 
but that’s theory, and we’ve seen two letdowns already from this squad: at virginia following the domi­nant performance against Texas and early in the game against massachusetts after the Georgia Tech win. 
“every single weekend, you’re playing elimination football,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said sunday. 
elimination football. That’s the perfect way to de­scribe how the Irish have to treat the rest of the season. 
From now through the end of november, notre dame can’t slip up if it’s going to track down its goals. 
And there’s no better way to set the tone than with a dominant performance over navy this weekend. bring it, snag a big win and carry tons of momentum into an­other pivotal game against the Trojans next week. 
struggle and sneak by with another tight win over navy though, and the door’s wide open for another disaster the week after. 
This is it. If notre dame is serious about winning a na­tional championship, it has to start this weekend with a focused, strong, dominant performance. 
Anything else? It means the Irish aspirations are nothing more than lip service. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 







RECRUITING 

Two touted visits highlight quiet weekend 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 
With only two official visi­tors expected on campus this weekend, notre dame will be fairly quiet on the re­cruiting front for the navy game. 
This weekend represents the calm before the storm, as 15 official visitors will flock to campus next weekend when notre dame takes on Usc, Irish recruiting analyst Andrew Ivins said. 
still, the two visitors this weekend — Los Angeles cornerback david Long and boulder, colorado, defen­sive end carlo Kemp — are top priorities for the Irish. Flipping Long, a four-star stanford commit and rivals. com’s 134th-ranked player, would be a coup for the Irish 
because  of  their  constant  
battles with the  cardinal,  
Ivins said.  

“over the years, notre dame has always struggled going head-to-head with stanford to get safeties and cornerbacks,” Ivins, who covers notre dame recruit­ing for rivals.com’s blue and Gold Illustrated, said. “but this is a guy who has yet to be admitted into stanford, so he’s exploring his options. notre dame’s never stopped recruiting him when he committed to a school.” 
Kemp, the other player on campus, is another four-star talent who is also the top-ranked player in colorado and 203rd-ranked player nationally. The nephew of Indianapolis colts head coach chuck Pagano, Kemp is a big-bodied defensive lineman at 6-foot-3 and 250 pounds. 
“he’s a strong side defen­sive end that could grow into a defensive tackle at the next level,” Ivins said. “he’s pret­ty high on notre dame and michigan. heading into the weekend, notre dame has a lot of ground to make up if they’re going to leapfrog michigan.” 
While the Irish will be chasing Long and Kemp, they won’t have to worry about 2017 tight end cole Kmet anymore, a chicago area prospect who pledged to notre dame last Friday. Kmet, rivals’ 10th-ranked tight end prospect, will join fellow 2017 recruit and top-ranked tight end brock Wright at the position for the Irish. 
“notre dame took a calcu­lated risk of sorts when they decided they were going to pass on a tight end in 2016 and look to take two in 2017,” Ivins said. “Whereas brock Wright is more of the tradi­tional tight end like durham smythe who can block and catch the ball, cole Kmet is like a receiver turned tight end. he can stretch the field. 
“ … [notre dame] really put on the press to get him because they think he’s a dy­namic guy. In a span of just a couple of months he picked up offers from pretty much every school out there, and it really just came down to notre dame and ohio state.” 
While Kmet and Wright are currently healthy, the same cannot be said for a num­ber of notre dame commits in the 2016 recruiting class. bradenton, Florida, safety spencer Perry, a three-star prospect per rivals, is out for the rest of the season with a shoulder injury. still, Perry shouldn’t see much of a drop in his ranking, Ivins said. 
“he had been evaluated multiple times in person, and I don’t think he’s a guy where a season-ending in­jury will have much of an impact on his ranking,” Ivins said. “he’s been grad­ed out as of what he’s done at camps.” 
Three-star defensive end Adetokunbo ogundeji, on the other hand, may fall as a result of a sprained mcL that will keep the Walled Lake, michigan, native out all year. 
“he was kind of a project player from the start,” Ivins said. “It would have been beneficial for him to just play football, because he re­ally hasn’t been playing it much. he’s been playing it for a few years and is a guy that just needed to get reps.” 
The last injured future Irish player is long snapper John shannon, who had al­ready punched his ticket to the U.s. Army All-American bowl in January. A shoulder injury will hold shannon out for the foreseeable future, although a return for a play­off run is not out of the ques­tion, Ivins said. 
As far as injuries go for high school prospects, espe­cially those who are uncom­mitted, they are considered but notre dame’s coaches ultimately focus on what the player did before the injury, Ivins said. 
“It all depends on the in­jury and how that plays into the future development,” Ivins said. 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueAndGold.com. Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 





The observer | FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 






HEAD TO 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM NAVY 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
MIDSHIPMEN PASSING and just a tad over 200 yards. 
senior quarterback Keenan reynolds is but the Irish defense fell apart in the final certainly the most prolific playmaker on few minutes of the game and then came out 
(Jr.) Jamir Tillman 

navy’s offensive side, but that doesn’t really flat and uninspired against clemson, only (so.) chad Lewellyn 
84 WR extend to his passing game. Thus far into to rebound for a stellar second portion of 2015, he has only 27 attempts in four games. the game. so consistency remains an issue And while his efficency rating of 158.7 would with the unit. 

(Sr.) Demond Brown 

rank among the top in the nation if he quali-navy has been a model of consistency (Jr.) dishan romine 
28 SB 

(Sr.) Joey Gatson 

LT
fied, the general trend in his career has been under head coach Ken niumatalolo, mak-(Fr.) Andrew Wood 
69 
downward. his attempts per game and ing six bowl games in seven years. What’s (Sr.) Chris Swain 

(Sr.) E.K. Binns 
FB

(sr.) Quentin ezell 32 (Jr.) Adam West 72
yards per contest have both dropped from more, he has honed and perfected the tri-
LG his sophomore year. ple-option offense he inherited from his (Sr.) Keenan Reynolds 


(Sr.) Blaze Ryder 
QB 


C
(Jr.) Tago smith 18 (sr.) brandon Greene 61
reynolds’ targets are limited as well. predecessor, Paul Johnson. navy has given Junior Jamir Tillman is the only midshipman notre dame fits under niumatalolo, win-(Sr.) Ben Tamburello 

RG 

(so.) evan martin 71 
receiver with more than three career ning twice and keeping things close several (Sr.) DeBrandon Sanders 
(Jr.) calvin cass Jr. 20 


SB (So.) Robert Lindsey 

receptions. other times, largely on the strength of its (Jr.) blake copeland 
79 
RT 
meanwhile, the Irish defensive backs are offense. coming off a solid performance against clemson in which they limited deshaun EDGE: EVEN Watson to 97 yards passing. Junior safety 

(Sr.) Thomas Wilson 

max redfield came back from injury to lead MIDSHIPMEN SPECIAL TEAMS (so.) craig scott 
82 WR the team with 14 tackles, junior cornerback While not the most explosive unit, navy’s cole Luke had his second interception of special teams has put together a solid al­the year, and senior safety elijah shumate beit unspectacular season thus far. The 

(Jr.) Brendon Clements 

looked strong. After a shaky start to the year, midshipmen have not returned any punts 
(so.) elijah merchant 
14 
LCB 
this unit appears to have turned a corner. or kicks for touchdowns or kicked a field goal longer than 40 yards. but they also (Jr.) Josiah Powell 



OLB 
(Jr.) mike Kelly 49

EDGE: NOTRE DAME have only lost one fumble on the season, 
(Jr.) Daiquan Thomasson 
have not missed any of their field goals and (so.) Jerry Thompson 
11 S 

(Sr.) Will Anthony

MIDSHIPMEN RUSHING average 42.5 yards per punt, including one 

97 DE
(Jr.) nnamdi Uzoma 

notre dame has already faced a triple-that went 72 yards. (So.) Micah Thomas 
ILB
(sr.) Tyler Goble 54 

option offense this year in Georgia Tech, navy only averages 19.1 yards per kickoff 

(Sr.) Bernard Sarra 

but they have yet to face a player like return, but notre dame’s coverage team (Jr.) Patrick Forrestal 
68 
NT 
Keenan reynolds. Just four touchdowns ranks 58th in the country. The situation is (Jr.) Daniel Gonzales 



ILB
(Jr.) ryan harris 59

away from breaking the ncAA record for the same on punt returns: navy averages 
(Jr.) Amos Mason 

(Fr.) Jarvis Polu 67
rushing scores, reynolds is far and away eight yards per return, while notre dame 

DE 

(Sr.) Lorentez Barbour 
the leading quarterback in rushing yards in allows eight yards on defense. on kickoffs, 
S
(so.) randy beggs 8 

the country and spearheads an attack that senior Austin Grebe gets touchbacks on (So.) D.J. Palmore 



OLB 
(so.) Kevin mccoy 

ranks third in the nation in rushing yards more than a third of his kicks. 40 per game. both teams played in the rain last week. EDGE: EVEN (Sr.) Quincy Adams


RCB
(Fr.) sean Williams 6

but while notre dame’s defensive front sur­rendered nearly 200 yards rushing and five MIDSHIPMEN SCHEDULE (4-0) yards per attempt, navy’s offense kicked sept. 5   Colgate (W 48-10) into high gear, racking up 270 yards, three sept. 19 East Carolina (W 45-21) touchdowns and no turnovers. sept. 26 @ Connecticut (W 28-18) 
oct. 3       Air Force (W 33-11) 


(Sr.) Austin Grebe 
(Jr.) Will Worth 

EDGE: NAVY oct. 10 @ Notre Dame (sr.) nick sloan 
6 (so.) randy beggs 
8
PK H 

oct. 24 Tulane 


(Jr.) Alex Barta 
(Jr.) Dishan Romine 


KR
(sr.) Gavin Jernigan 16 22
MIDSHIPMEN OFFENSIVE COACHING oct. 31 South Florida 
P (Jr.) Toneo Gulley 
notre dame defensive coordinator brian nov. 7      @ Memphis (Sr.) DeBrandon Sanders 


(Jr.) Josh Antol 
PR 


(Jr.) calvin cass Jr. 20 (so.) ronnie Querry 85 
LS
vanGorder prepped his team to near-per-nov. 14 SMU fection for its matchup against Georgia nov. 21 @ Tulsa Tech’s triple-option offense. The Irish lim-nov. 27 @ Houston ited the Yellow Jackets to one rushing score dec. 12 vs. Army 



Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 

brian Kelly and the Irish have said all the right things since the loss to clemson last weekend: They’re not in this for moral victories; they’re going to come out angry against navy; they’re not concerned about the college Football Playoff, just the next game. 
but why should anyone believe the talk? If the past is any indication, this matchup with navy has all the mak­ings of a trap game. Last season, in almost the exact same situation — coming off a gut-wrenching road loss — the Irish came out flat and struggled to put away a pesky navy squad. And this year, notre dame has come out flat against underdogs virginia and Umass, with varying degrees of success in pulling away. navy is certainly is more capable than the minutemen and the cavaliers. 



Mary Green 
Assistant managing editor 
brian Kelly said notre dame can’t afford any more slow starts like it had against clemson, and that holds especially true this week against a potent navy offense led by Keenan reynolds and the triple-option attack. 
The Irish prepared for a similar situation against Georgia Tech, and they were able to score early and often against the Yellow Jackets. 
however, to do that, the receivers can’t afford to continu­ously let down deshone Kizer like they did against clemson. The Irish offense still relies largely on the play of c.J. Prosise and the offensive line, but last week’s game proved an air attack is necessary for success as well. Perhaps their lack­luster play was a result of the rain, so they should be able to rebound saturday. 



Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
The last time notre dame faced a triple-option offense, it completely shut it down for 53 minutes. The Irish de­fense also shut down clemson last weekend for about 53 minutes. Is this the week the defense finally puts togeth­er a 60-minute effort like it did against Texas to start the season? 
not quite. Keenan reynolds and the navy offense will find success at times saturday. 
but with how angry the notre dame offense, particular­ly the receivers and offensive line, will play, it won’t matter much. This one will be over by the end of the third quarter as the Irish rebound with a statement victory. 
Look for corey robinson to begin down the path to re­demption with a solid day. 

FINAL SCORE: notre dame 33, navy 27 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, navy 24 FINAL SCORE: notre dame 45, navy 24 


TO HEAD 

3:30 P.M. ON NBC NO. 15 NOTRE DAME 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
IRISH PASSING IRISH OFFENSIVE COACHING 
In a game in which so much went wrong It took a few possessions, but brian Kelly 

KeiVarae Russell (Sr.) 
for notre dame, sophomore quarterback and the Irish staff eventually advanced into 
RCB 
12 devin butler (Jr.) 

deshone Kizer’s play at clemson was a a solid offensive game plan a week ago at bright spot. In his first road start, Kizer went clemson — poor execution by the offensive Jaylon Smith (Jr.) 19-for-35 for 321 yards and two scores, and line and receivers had more to do with notre 
WLB 


4 Te’von coney (Fr.) 
that’s with the Irish leaving more than 100 dame’s struggles than the tactical choices yards on the turf through dropped passes. themselves. 

Romeo Okwara (Sr.) 

29 Elijah Shumate (Sr.) That said, no matter how well Kizer played At the end of the day, the Irish have still 
DE 
98 Andrew Trumbetti (so.) 
S 
nicky baratti (sr.) 


last time out, his receivers have to avoid topped 400 yards in each of their five games 
DT 
Sheldon Day (Sr.) dropping balls in key situations. Junior this season, a sign Kelly has a good famil­
93 Jay hayes (so.) 


Joe Schmidt (Gr.) receiver corey robinson dropped a deep iarity for where this unit is, something that 

MLB 
59 Jarrett Grace (Gr.) 
DT 
Daniel Cage (So.) ball that could have been a big touchdown should not be surprising given his past suc­
99 Jerry Tillery (Fr.) 


and a crucial 2-point conversion attempt cess with young quarterbacks. 
Max Redfield (Jr.) against clemson, junior Will Fuller dropped navy’s defense is nothing special, so a sol-
DE 
41 matthias Farley (Gr.) 
Isaac Rochell (Jr.) S

55 Jonathan bonner (so.) a key third-down pass early in the game and id game plan should be more than enough to other drops plagued the Irish passing game get the job done offensively. 

James Onwualu (Jr.) all day long. That has to change if Kizer is to 
SLB 

48 Greer martini (so.) 
truly have a breakout game. EDGE: NOTRE DAME While they haven’t played a particularly 
Cole Luke (Jr.) 

LCB 
24 nick coleman (Fr.) impressive opponent yet, the midshipmen IRISH SPECIAL TEAMS have allowed just 186 yards per game As has been the story so often this season, a through the air after four contests. If notre couple key mistakes plagued the Irish special 
Will Fuller (Jr.) 

WR 
86 
dame’s receivers fail to take advantage of teams unit once more at clemson last week. 
equanimeous st. brown (Fr.) 

TE 
the easy catches this week, navy’s second-After a quick score and stop from the Tigers ary could be good enough to force the Irish on the first two possessions of the game, Tyler Luatua (So.) to rely even more on the ground game. sophomore Tyler newsome shanked his first 

10 Alizé Jones (Fr.) 
punt attempt of the game, putting the Irish 

RT 

Mike McGlinchey (Jr.) EDGE: EVEN defense in a terrible spot, one from which 
75 mark harrell (sr.) 


clemson scored easily for a 14-0 lead. 
C.J.Prosise (Sr.) 
33 Josh Adams (Fr.) 

Steve Elmer (Jr.) RB 
IRISH RUSHING And a week after taking a punt to the house, 
RG 
62 colin mcGovern (Jr.) 

despite a lackluster performance on the freshman receiver c.J. sanders fumbled on 
DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Nick Martin (Gr.) 

C 
53 sam mustipher (so.) QB 
12 brandon Wimbush (Fr.) ground last week at clemson, the Irish rush the opening kickoff of the second half, effec­game still ranks impressively high in both tively handing the Tigers seven more points. 
Quenton Nelson (So.) 
71 Alex bars (so.) 

LG 
yards per game (13th) and yards per carry despite positive flashes from newsome, 
LT 

Ronnie Stanley (Sr.) (seventh) nationally. While that’s mostly sanders and freshman kicker Justin Yoon, 
70 hunter bivin (Jr.) 

thanks to a dominant performance against who did well to convert his one field goal at­massachusetts, one poor game on the tempt, it’s tough to put much faith in the unit 
WR 

Chris Brown (Sr.) ground does not a season make. to avoid more costly mistakes. 
88 corey robinson (Jr.) 

Against a squarely average midshipmen 
Amir Carlisle (Gr.) 

WR 
16 Torii hunter Jr. (Jr.) rush defense, it would be expected for the EDGE: NAVY notre dame ground game to have a bounce-back game against navy. A weaker run game IRISH SCHEDULE (4-1) notched 218 yards and four scores on the sept. 5 Texas (W 38-3)               ground in notre dame’s win a season ago, so sept. 12 @ Virginia (W 34-27) it would not be a surprise to see the Irish run sept. 19 Georgia Tech (W 30-22) game hit the 200-yard mark for the fifth time sept. 26 Massachusetts (W 62-27) 

DeShone Kizer (So.) 
Justin Yoon (Fr.) 

H 
PK

4 montgomery vanGorder (so.) 
43 John chereson (Jr.) this season. oct. 3 @ Clemson (L 24-22) 
The offensive line’s play a week ago could oct. 10 Navy 
Amir Carlisle (Gr.) 
Tyler Newsome (So.) 

9 c.J. sanders (Fr.) 42 Jeff riney (Fr.) 
KR 
P 
be cause for concern, but c.J. Prosise ran oct. 17 USC 
PR 
LS 

C.J.Sanders (Fr.) rampant over each of notre dame’s four pre-oct. 31 @ Temple 
Scott Daly (Sr.) 


99 hunter smith (sr.) 7 Will Fuller (Jr.) 
vious opponents, and he should be able to do nov. 7 @ Pittsburgh so once more against the midshipmen. nov. 14 Wake Forest nov. 21 vs. Boston College EDGE: NOTRE DAME nov. 28 @ Stanford 




Alex Carson 
Associate sports editor 

This game will go the way the notre dame defense wants it to. 
If defensive coordinator brian vanGorder’s unit comes out with the intensity and scheme it used to brilliantly stop Georgia Tech’s triple-option attack last month, there’s no reason the Irish can’t run away with a big victory to set the tone for the rest of the year. 
but if notre dame comes out with defensive intensity like it had early against massachusetts or clemson, it could lead to a tight game that comes down to the final possession or two. 
deshone Kizer and c.J. Prosise shouldn’t have an is­sue being productive on offense, so this one is squarely on the shoulders of an experienced defense. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 38, navy 24 



Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 

After last week’s loss to clemson, brian Kelly’s message to the team wasn’t positive — instead of talking to his team about the fight they put up, he harped on his disappoint­ment in the Irish since they didn’t seize the opportunity they had. 
notre dame is a football team looking for vengeance, and it just so happens to be navy that it’s going to take it out on. Under any other scenario, I would be wary of navy, but not with how mad the Irish are: Just ask Joe schmidt, who said no one would smile for a week following clemson. 
Points won’t be hard to come by for the Irish; instead, the most intriguing part of this game will be how the Irish con­tain navy’s Keenan reynolds, a quarterback who throws far less than even Georgia Tech. 
FINAL SCORE: notre dame 45, navy 21 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Irish players look forward to renewing 


Former Irish receiver Maurice Stovall pulls in a touchdown catch   during Notre Dame’s 42-21 victory over Navy on Nov. 12, 2005. 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
For the 89th consecutive year, no. 15 notre dame and navy will meet on the gridiron in a rivalry that contains more respect than animosity. 
“It’s a huge rivalry,” Irish junior linebacker Jaylon smith said. “You have tons of respect for them. And it’s just anytime you get a chance to play against a great team like navy, who represents some­thing so much more than football, it’s just an honor to be a part of.” 
“It’s a huge honor,” Irish graduate student cornerback matthias Farley said. “It’s a lot different than any other game you play for a lot of rea­sons, the triple-option being one of them, but also these guys are playing football and preparing to go out and serve our country and protect our country.” 
Although the two teams have played every year since 1926, the Irish (4-1) have tra­ditionally dominated the midshipmen (4-0, 2-0 AAc), leading the series by a mar­gin of 75-12-1. That includes a 43-game winning streak from 1964 through 2006 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
before navy pulled off a 46­44, triple-overtime victory in 2007. 
but for the first time in se­ries history, other than when the two teams met in dublin at the beginning of the 2012 season, saturday’s matchup is the first time neither team has more than one loss. 
“[navy head coach Ken niumatalolo has] developed not only his offense to the point where they compete nationally, but their defense as well has developed,” Irish head coach brian Kelly said Tuesday. “It’s played the kind of defense that I think a top­25 team plays.” 
despite being an annu­al fixture since before the Great depression, the series took on new meaning during World War II. With many col-lege-aged students serving in the war overseas and notre dame struggling financial­ly, the U.s. navy made the University a training center, keeping it afloat. 
The relationship went both ways, too, as many notre dame students, including 1947 heisman Trophy winner John Lujack, served in the navy during the war. 
Irish players acknowl­edged the tough schedule 





historic rivalry with midshipmen 
the Academy’s midshipmen, including the football play­ers, have every day. 
“They have football and the naval Academy,” senior de­fensive lineman sheldon day said. “We have respect for the grind they go through.” 
“To them, probably [foot­ball’s] an outlet to get away,” Irish graduate student of­fensive lineman nick martin said. “obviously what they do is unbelievable, and the respect we have for them is the utmost.” 
“They’re a tough team, and they always play hard,” said junior receiver corey robinson, whose father, david, attended the naval Academy. “Those guys are crazy. I thought I was busy, right? Those guys are busy. I don’t even know how they sleep. everything they do, they demand excellence in.” 
even University President emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh dreamed of serv­ing as a navy chaplain in World War II. hesburgh, in an interview in 2013, said there was never a formal document or agreement signed saying the two sides should play every year. 
“It just happened — it’s one of those unspoken traditions,” hesburgh said. “I think myself and the guys who came before and after me as president never had the slightest doubt that they ought to keep playing navy.” 


While navy is not consid­ered a traditional power­house by any stretch of the imagination, the Irish all agree the midshipmen will give notre dame all it can handle saturday afternoon. 
“It’s hard to put into words,” martin said. “It’s a fun game. It’s an all-out war, it’s a battle up front. Always is. You have two teams that are going to fight to the fin­ish each play. It’s fun.” 
The last time the Irish wel­comed navy to notre dame stadium, the game featured a fly-over by the blue Angels, the first appearance by the elite fighter group since the government restarted after its shutdown that summer. 
This week the respect the game has on both sides will be visually represented by both coaching staffs wearing the same outfits, and play­ers for both teams will don the same gloves, cleats and undershirts. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



Former Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te’o brings down a Navy runner during the 56-14 win against the Midshipmen on Oct. 29, 2011. 



Reynolds heads to ND nearing NCAA record 


By MARY GREEN 
Assistant managing editor 
Facing navy senior quar­terback Keenan reynolds is nothing new for notre dame: The Irish have done it each of the past three years, the last two as the midshipmen’s starter. 
That doesn’t make the team’s task any easier this saturday, though. 
reynolds spearheads the triple-option offense show­cased by navy (4-0, 2-0 AAc), leading the team’s rush-heavy attack with 122 yards per game on the ground and nine scores. he and senior running back chris swain have combined to take 155 of the midshipmen’s 234 to­tal carries this season and 849 of the team’s 1,359 total rushing yards. 
“You feel like you can’t say enough good things about their quarterback,” Irish graduate student linebacker Joe schmidt said. “he does a good job running their sys­tem, getting them in and out of the right plays. he’s care­ful with the football.” 
The Irish (4-1) have already faced a similar challenge earlier this season in stop­ping Georgia Tech redshirt junior quarterback Justin Thomas, who they were able to hold to 27 rushing yards and 121 passing yards. 
senior defensive lineman sheldon day said the team’s previous experience against the triple option has given it the key to how to control it. 
“stop the big play going up the middle for a lot of yards or stopping the quarterback. It’s about giving them differ­ent looks and making sure we confuse them as best as possible,” day said. 
Georgia Tech head coach Paul Johnson installed the triple option at navy when he was the head coach there from 2002 to 2007, and Ken niumatalolo, the team’s cur­rent head coach, has kept it in place in his eight years in Annapolis. 
“We know we’ve got our hands full to stop a very po­tent offensive attack,” Kelly said. “coach [niumatalolo] does a great job of utiliz­ing multiple formations, multiple looks in running their offense. obviously, the quarterback has played against us for four years. We’re very aware of him and have a great deal of respect for the naval Academy and what they represent.” 
The Irish are also aware 
— some to a higher degree than others — of a milestone reynolds is currently chas­ing as he closes out his four years at the naval Academy. The quarterback, who has scored 73 career rushing touchdowns, is five more runs to the end zone short of breaking former Wisconsin running back montee ball’s all-time ncAA record of 77. reynolds’ current mark is second-most all-time and the most of any quarterback in history. 
“I think I heard earlier in the week that he’s closing in on a record, so anytime you’re able to do that as a player he’s definitely done a lot of things right,” schmidt said. “Tremendous amount of respect as a player, and we’re looking forward to playing him on saturday.” 
however, Kelly said it’s important to notre dame’s cause that reynolds doesn’t make history so soon. 
“We certainly don’t want him to get the record, al­though it’s a great achieve­ment,” Kelly said. “If he’s to get that record, they’re going to have a great day here, and we can’t afford for him to do that.” 
The 5-foot-11, 205-pound quarterback leads the of­fense that has outscored its opponents’ in its last eight under his belt. exceed that, and that’s an in-consecutive games and 10 “They will play harder and credible job for us,” schmidt of its last 11. reynolds is longer than anybody else, said. also the winningest starting and that’s our challenge: We quarterback in program his-need to match that and do Contact Mary Green at  tory, with 25 career victories everything we can to try to mgreen8@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 





CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer  CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer  
Sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer waits for the snap from  Graduate student receiver Amir Carlisle looks for an opening during a play in Notre Dame’s 24-22 loss to  
graduate student center Nick Martin in last week’s loss to Clemson.  Clemson last Saturday at Memorial Stadium in Clemson, South Carolina.  


KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Freshman running back Josh Adams rushes toward the end zone during the 62-27 Irish victory over Massachusetts on Sept. 25 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 


CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
Junior receiver Will Fuller looks for extra yardage after a catch against Clemson in Notre Dame’s road loss to the Tigers last Saturday. 


PAId AdverTIsemenT PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Please recycle 
The Observer. 







