The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 117 | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Campus groups sponsor Ally Week 2015 
GRC emphasizes importance of allies in creating a safe and welcoming environment at Notre Dame 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 

This week, the gender relations center (grc), along with co-sponsors campus ministry, multicultural student programs and services and prismnd, is sponsoring ally week. 
maureen mcKenney, the grc’s assistant director for lgbTQ student concerns, said ally week is a weeklong series of events that aim to focus on members of the notre dame community and create a cam­pus that is welcoming to all, regardless of difference. 
“within the notre dame community, allies help cre­ate a safe and inclusive cam­pus community where all may flourish and feel welcome,” mcKenney said. “[it is] one in which the human dignity of each person is valued through people being knowledgeable of resources, supportive of all students, and a willingness to dialogue across difference.” 
ally week kicked off monday with Frank warren from post secret speaking at Jordan hall of science. other scheduled events during the week in­clude ally Training, a service project, an ally dinner and a 
see ally PAGE 4 



students assist Jordanian entrepreneurs 
By REBECCA O’NEIL 
news writer 
a saint mary’s professor and two students traveled to amman, Jordan, to observe and assist the inception and future growth of shecab, a startup taxi service de­signed for and by Jordanian women. 
associate professor of political science sonalini sapra accompanied junior eleanor Jones and soph­omore emily beaudoin abroad, a trip that followed the two students’ participa­tion in the study of united states institute (susi) on global women’s leadership hosted by saint mary’s the previous summer. 
The susi, organized and facilitated by the college’s center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil), closed its five-week long program with a cap­stone project in which stu­dents designed a program geared towards helping women in their home coun­try. Jones and beaudoin said they were unsurprised when the shecab proposal was chosen as the best of all the participating groups in the 2014 susi. 
“each team developed great ideas for their proj­ect, but shecab was the clear winner,” Jones said. “i remember emily predict­ing their success before it was announced that they had won. Their mission was clear and their action plan was something that was tangible.” 
not only was their design tangible, but it was one the Jordanian group encoun­tered in successful action during their stay in south bend, Jones said. 
“gail hickey graduated from the spark program that is hosted at saint mary’s by martha smith,” Jones said. “Through her participation in this program, she started her own female cab service in the area. The Jordanian delegation met gail when they were here and they 
see shecab PAGE 3 



SMC TA lectures on Tunisian women 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
The center for women’s intercultural leadership (cwil) hosted an installment of the cwil colloquium featur­ing a presentation by Fulbright arabic Teaching assistant olfa slimane. slimane discussed the ways in which prominent female figures have shaped history in Tunisia and helped create a modern society with gender equality. 
“The Tunisian woman is a mixture of different cultures,” slimane said. “she is the berber. she is the byzantine. she is the roman, the arab, the muslim, the christian, the Jew.” 
in the early years of Tunisian history, one of the most nota­ble women was elissa, known as dido to the western world, slimane said. elissa founded “The shining city,” carthage, after fleeing her hometown in lebanon when her brother killed her husband. she bought the land where she built the city by offering cowhide to locals. 
see Tunisia PAGE 4 



observer wins icpa awards 
Observer Staff Report 
The observer took home more than two dozen awards from the 2015 indiana collegiate scholastic press association (icpa) awards ceremony this weekend in indianapolis, includ­ing second place in the division i newspaper of the year category and third place in the best overall design category. 
The news department, led by former news editor and current assistant managing editor lesley stevenson, took home first place for best continuous coverage of the campus crossroads proj­ect, third place in the best news or Feature series category for the coverage of mental illness awareness week and third place for best in-depth story for for­mer editor-in-chief ann marie Jakubowski, former assistant managing editors isaac lorton and samantha Zuba and senior sports writer mike monaco’s cov­erage of the academic dishonesty 
see icpa PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 women’s lacrosse PAGE 12 FooTball PAGE 12 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney alex Jirschele Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: lesley stevenson Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: brian lach Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu lsteven1@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How do you put your Pop-Tarts in the toaster? 

DeVonté Applewhite 
senior 
Keenan hall 
“30 seconds, then i check it and add 15 more if necessary.” 


Mike Kelly 
senior 
o’neill hall 
“i prefer them raw.” 
Eileen McTigue 
sophomore 
badin hall 
“i don’t, i’m too lazy.” 


Nicolle Ho 
freshman welsh Family hall 
“i don’t usually eat pop-Tarts, but when i do i’ll let you know.” 
Matthew Munro 
sophomore 
duncan hall 
“The last time i toasted it, it lit on fire. haven’t done it since.” 


Steve Jakubowski 
sophomore 
st. edward’s hall 
“i eat only raw pop-Tarts.” 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com matthew mcKenna brian plamondon rachel o’grady megan valley 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
sara shoemake John darr 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive “South Bend on a “The Hard Problem” Labor Cafe Run Forrest Run 
Jodi lo Tabitha ricketts 
Rolfs Sports Dime” DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall 5K/10K Recreation Center McKenna Hall Arts Center 4:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. Campus-wide 11 a.m.-5:30 p.m. 12 p.m. -1 p.m. 7 p.m. -9:15 p.m. Sponsored by Higgins 8:30 a.m. -11a.m. 
Corrections 

Sponsored by South Panel with Downtown National Theatre Live. Labor Studies Benefit for wounded 
The observer regards itself as Bend Medical Center. South Bend. Program. veterans. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Four: 7 Catholic “MFA Student “Dead Man’s ND Relay for Life Blue-Gold Game 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Fellowship” Reading” Cellphone” Compton Family Ice LaBar Practice 
however, recognize that we will make 
Cavanaugh Hall Hammes Bookstore DeBartolo Performing Arena Complex 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:15p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. Arts Center 6 p.m. -11:55 p.m. 12:30 p.m. -3:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Student led service. Sponsored by Creative 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Fundraiser for cancer Streaming online. 
we can correct our error. 
Writing Program. Theatre performance. research. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | The observer 

AROUND CAMPUS 
The Bald and the Beautiful (TBAB) 
started in 2009, notre dame’s The bald and the beautiful has raised over $195,000 for memorial hospital and the st. baldrick’s Foundation. 
students, faculty and staff can shave their heads, cut their hair or purchase hair extensions wednesday, Thursday and Friday in the sorin and dooley rooms in laFortune student center to help the club reach their goal of raising over $300,000 in just six years. 
Lincoln Memorial Mass 
in honor of the 150th an­niversary of the assassina­tion of 16th u.s. president abraham lincoln, the constitutional studies and Tocqueville programs will host a mass this wednesday at 11:30 a.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. 
‘So You Think You Can Sync?’ 
pasquerilla east hall will be hosting notre dame’s first annual charity lip sync battle on Thursday in the carey auditorium of hesburgh library at 7 p.m. Tickets will be sold all week at the laFortune box office for $6 and any remaining tickets will be available at the door for $8. all proceeds benefit the center for the homeless. 
Judges for the event in­clude members of campus ministry and sao. contestants include the rectors of howard, walsh, lyons, Fisher, cavanaugh, Keough and pasquerilla east halls; lauren vidal and matt devine, student body president and vice president for 2014-2015; and junior quarterback malik Zaire. 
ND Relay for Life 
notre dame will hold its 11th annual relay for life on Friday at compton Family ice arena from 6 p.m. to midnight. The event has raised over $1 million for the american cancer society over the years. activities in­clude ice skating, a silent auction and a luminary cer­emony to honor and remem­ber those who have or have had cancer. 
Harmonia’s Spring Concert 
notre dame’s all-female a cappella group will be hold­ing its annual spring concert on Friday in washington hall. The concert starts at 7 p.m. and tickets will be sold at the door for $4 each, of which $1 will be donated to the music education pro­gram at good shepherd montessori school. 
Pie Your President 
walsh hall will be hold­ing their annual “pie your president” outside of laFortune student center. donations of $2 are encour­aged and will benefit girls on the run. last year, 28 dorm presidents participat­ed in the event, and walsh was able to sponsor 10 girls for girls on the run. 
Screening of ‘The Hunting Ground’ at DPAC 
The cnn documentary will be shown in debartolo performing arts center on Friday at both 6:30 and 9:30 
p.m. The film focuses on oc­currences of sexual assault on campuses in the united states and the efforts of the victims to continue their education and get justice for the crimes committed against them. both notre dame and saint mary’s are featured in the documenta­ry. admission to the show­ing is $7 dollars for adults and $4 dollars for students. 
Lakeside Music Festival 
carroll and badin have teamed up to host the first lakeside music Festival on saturday at 1 p.m. on the carroll lawn. residents of carroll and badin will be selling tickets all week for $3 and tickets will be $5 at the Festival. 
acts include the undertones, Frances luke accord, be goode and oth­ers. proceeds from the event will be donated to the boys and girls club of st. Joseph county to fundraise a safe space for their members to enjoy. 
unsafe in taxis driven by 

men.” conTinued From page 1 beaudoin said the the group’s end result was a taxi used her idea as the spring-business — female-purposed board for their own action and female-serviced — with plan.” a mission to provide safe and beaudoin said the trans-accessible transportation for portation demanded and women. supplied by women in south “once shecab is officially bend and appropriated for launched, the cars will be use in amman speaks to driven exclusively by females an international interest in and offer their services to fe­women’s safety. males,” beaudoin said. “shecab is part of a larg-Jones said shecab’s cre­er global movement for fe-ators have garnered a lot of male-only transportation,” attention through media beaudoin said. “mexico, outreach since they left the afghanistan, india and u.s. in august. even new york city have “although they have not already implemented sys-officially launched, shecab’s tems of female only public greatest strength thus far has transportation.” been their outreach,” Jones 
“This is a service much said. “They were on the front needed in amman, as women cover of one of their national oftentimes speak of harass-newspapers, and they have 
ment and feeling generally been interviewed on several 
SheCab 

paid adverTisemenT 

radio stations.”  with additional funding that  
although  the  two  saint  would ensure the business’s  
mary’s students did not con- quick and effective launch.  
tribute to  shecab’s initial  “shecab  is  in  need  of  
design, beaudoin and Jones  funds to purchase cars, mar- 
said they were able to wit­ ket their business and con­ 
ness and help their interna­ tinue  to  grow,”  beaudoin  
tional peers’ business model  said. “right now the shecab  
come to life during their trip  team is working to finalize  
to Jordan.  their business plan, attract  
“emily and i were able to  investors  and  market their  
attend a meeting at the u.s.  business so that when it does  

“Personally, I think SheCab won because it was a very specific, highly feasible idea that is part of a larger global movement for female-only transportation. The fact that it was entrepreneurial, that the Jordanian team wanted to launch a new business, distinguished it from the other country projects.” 
Emily Beaudoin 
sophomore 
embassy in support of the come time for the official shecab team,” Jones said. launch the public is excited “There, they were announced and willing to ride in their a finalist for an alumni cabs.” engagement innovation beaudoin said she was im-Fund (aeiF) grant from the pressed by the Jordanian 
u.s. department of state delegation’s ability to see bureau of educational and this feminist-activism proj­cultural affairs. ect through as a potentially “ … while we were there, profitable business model. they also got the first call “personally, i think from a potential investor.” shecab won because it was a 
beaudoin said the very specific, highly feasible Jordanian entrepreneurs idea that is part of a larger intend to use the shecab’s global movement for female-media attention to raise the only transportation,” she money it needs for an official said. “The fact that it was launch. she said she realized entrepreneurial, that the that the most significant Jordanian team wanted to way she and Jones could launch a new business, dis-contribute to the growth of tinguished it from the other shecab was to provide them country projects.” 
This “feasible” idea is en­sured by need, beaudoin said. she and Jones experi­enced the dangers of male cabbies firsthand during their trip to amman, she said. 
“as we spoke with several women who live in amman and experienced some ha­rassment at the hands of a taxi driver ourselves, it was evident that shecab is a much-needed service in amman,” beaudoin said. 
Jones said shecab will not only protect, but empower women. 
“i wanted to help contrib­ute to this program because in my mind, these women leaders have already suc­ceeded,” Jones said. “ … They not only identified an issue in their community, they are finding a solution. They are finding and spark­ing confidence in others.” 
Jones said the opportunity to witness and contribute to shecab and the rise of the women entrepreneurs that designed and implemented it was inspiring. 
“although our institute this summer was only five weeks, i think we devel­oped great bonds with these women,” Jones said. “being able to watch them succeed in change makes me proud to have been able to watch them develop this dream from the beginning and to have been a small part of their journey.” 
Contact Rebecca O’Neil at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ICPA 
conTinued From page 1 
investigation earlier this school year. 
additionally, the news staff won second place in the best special issue category for the mid-year marks student govern­ment insider, and the staff as a Theme park” while malabute won third for his piece “To cancel or commend colbert?” marc drake won second for best news or Feature series for “scene in south bend.” 
The graphics department won second and third for best special issue/section Front cover for the irish insiders on sept. 5, which was created by former photo 
Tunisia 
conTinued From page 1 
“These women paved the history of Tunisia,” slimane said of elissa and several others. “because of them, Tunisian women gained very strong agency in the society. 

personal status, in Tunisia, which is a series of rules and laws that secure equality of men and women in certain areas,” slimane said. 
slimane said after Tunisia gained independence, habib bourguiba, the first presi­dent, started a nationalist project based on haddad’s book to build a modern pro-in 2011. one of the ironies of [the revolution] is that while it was a step forward for democracy, it has always 
“These women paved the history of Tunisia. Becuase of them, Tunisian women 

however, it is strongly felt in society, but it was not writ­ten in the constitution.” 
slimane said before Tunisia gained indepen­dence, Tahar haddad, a modernist scholar, issued a book that offered a mod­ern reading of the Quran, causing it to be censored. he distinguished between islamic precepts — the time­less beliefs held by muslims 
— and islamic law, which is temporal. 
according to slimane, the book was censored because haddad viewed women’s ed­ucation as an integral part of a wider nationalist project to fight colonialism. 
“his book was the basis for this cps, which is code for 

whole won first place in the best editor and current assistant 
Themed issue category for the managing editor wei lin and for­
2014 commencement issue. mer graphics editor Keri o’mara, 
sports writer mike ginocchio and oct. 17, which was created 
won 

third place for the best by online editor michael yu and 
sports Feature story with his story o’mara, respectively. o’mara 
“hegarty recovers from stroke, be-and former scene editor allie 
comes starter.” The sports staff, led by former sports editor and current assistant managing editor mary green, won third place in the best pullout/wrap section catego­ry for aug. 29 irish insider. 
The observer editorial board won third place for best staff editorial for its oct. 3 viewpoint “a call for a clear honor code.” 
six scene writers won awards over the weekend in a variety of categories. Jimmy Kemper won third place for best entertainment story with “why Taylor swift’s spotify power move is the worst.” matt mcmahon and caelin miltko won in the best review category; mcmahon took first with “st. vincent: Queen of new pop,” while miltko took second with “‘six characters in search of an author’ blurs line between art and life.” 
miko malabute and scene Tollaksen won third place in the best informational graphic cat­egory for their “notre dame style guide.” 
The photo department, led by lin, earned three awards, in­cluding first place in the best sports photo category for former assistant managing editor Kevin song’s “corey robinson: The catch.” photographer and news writer emily mcconville won third in the same category for “redfield comforts mcdaniel,” and former photo editor grant Tobin earned third place in the best Feature photo category for “sad muffet.” 
song won second place for best overall website design for ndsmcobserver.com, which was launched last January. song and yu won third place for best special presentation for the commencement 2014 fea­ture website, while multimedia gressive society and a po­

gained very 

litically and economically 
strong agency in 
the society.” 

strong state by focusing 
on women’s education and 
women’s emancipation. 
Olfa Slimane 

she said the cps, started 
Fulbright Arabic teaching 

under bourguiba, raised the 
assistant 

minimum age of marriage for both men and women and abolished polygamy and unilateral unexplained divorce by men. it also gave women alimony and cus­tody rights, the right to legal abortion or child adoption and the rights to vote or be elected into office. 
“The status is very excep­tional in the region,” slimane said. “but it is not appreciat­ed by many muslim because it departs from the conven­tional way of viewing islam.” 
slimane said the situation of women after the revolu­tion changed. 
“women in Tunisia have great agency in society and politics in particular. This was not translated af­ter the revolution election threatened to be a step back­ward in women’s rights. The reappearance of the islamist party with its more conser­vative position in the po­litical scene put the cps in jeopardy.” 
“we have a clause in the cps saying that the woman is equal to men in house­hold, and they wanted to change it to complementary to men in the household.” slimane said. “This raised a lot of disagreement among people and many women or­ganizations fought in order to keep the cps untouched and to give women more prominence in politics.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


editor erin mcauliffe won in the editor brian lach won second best entertainment column cat-place in the best video cat­egory, mcauliffe won second for egory for “shamrock series: “envisioning wes anderson’s indianapolis.” 

Ally 
conTinued From page 1 
T-shirt giveaway. 
“i am really looking forward to the ‘what does it mean to be an ally’ dinner and pre­sentation,” mcKenney said. “it is a chance for members of our own community to share with others some personal re­flection on what life as an ally 
“As a Catholic communtiy, all of us are called to be friends and allies of one another and to be intentional about how we work to create a campus that feels like home for all of our students.” 
Maureen McKenney 
assistant director LGBTQ 
student concerns 
GRC 
looks like, and why allies play an important part in creating a safe, welcome and inclusive campus community for all of our students.” 
mcKenney said the idea of ally week has been culminat­ing for over a year, and the lo­gistics for this week’s events were finalized at the begin­ning of this semester. 
“as a catholic community, all of us are called to be friends and allies of one another and to be intentional about how we work to create a campus that feels like home for all of our students,” mcKenney said. “not to mention, we have set up a fun, exciting, educational and inspiring week of events lined up, so hopefully stu­dents will enjoy themselves while learning a little along the way.” 
mcKenney said that she hopes that students will at­tend some if not all of the events and leave with a bet­ter understanding of how to help others and become more welcoming to others. she said she hopes these students use their newfound understand­ing and apply it specifically to notre dame’s community to create a more inclusive environment. 
“helping to create a campus that values the human dignity and inclusion of all people is something that we hope ev­eryone within the notre dame community can support and take part in,” mcKenney said. 
For more information about events and times, visit the grc. nd.edu/events 
Contact Selenia Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By CAELIN MILTKO 
scene writer 

on st. patrick’s day, the chicago art institute opened an exhibit they called, “ireland: crossroads of art and design, 1690-1840.” The exhibit runs through June 7, featuring over 300 objects from public and private collections across north america (including at least one piece from notre dame’s very own snite museum of art). 
The exhibit opens with a giant map of ireland painted on one of the walls. walking in, i wasn’t entirely sure what to expect, but as an irish language major, i found it par­ticularly curious that they had included the irish-gaelic names of each of the cities included on the map but used only the english names of each of the counties (using the loyalist name for the county of londonderry instead of the irish name, derry, which perhaps should have clued me in to the type of artwork they would display). 
walking into the next room reveals a large display about the symbol of the harp in ireland. accompanying it is a short discussion of the harp as a “universal symbol” for all of ireland. (side note on the use of the harp: if you look at the harp used as the republic of ireland’s national symbol and the harp used in the guinness logo, you’ll notice they face opposite directions. when the irish state was formed in the 1920s, they had to make sure to face the harp the opposite way from that of the guinness harp because the beer company had a copyright on the symbol.) 
moving into the next room, there is a group of portraits. Though most portraits are of anglo-irish dignitaries, some are of british soldiers, and there is a solid group depicting the children and families of the artists. perhaps most in­teresting to me was the number of “irish” artists who did the bulk of their work in england. 
moving into the rest of the exhibit, the focus shifts from traditional painting to works of art that also existed as pieces of furniture, clothing, and dishware. each room fo­cuses on a different center of production in the country, from dublin, cork, belfast and waterford. 
in a small corner of the room of silver dishes, there is a display of ceramic dishware that is one of the highlights of the room. The painting on each plate is quite impressive, and as someone whose mother loves belleek dishes, i can appreciate irish pottery. 
one of my personal favorite parts of the exhibit was the second to last room, which featured a number of large pieces of furniture clearly from aristocratic homes around the country. perhaps one of the best pieces was a large de­canter chest that looked almost more like a table. There was something fascinating about picturing its actual us­age. The contrast between the furniture here and that presented in another wing of the institute — alongside american modernism — was rather striking. 
The exhibit closes where it began, with the final room featuring a large tapestry depicting the destruction of niobe’s children. it is eye-catching and impressively done. 
For me, perhaps the most striking feature of the exhibit was that which it seemed to lack. walking through the entire showcase, there didn’t seem to be a single piece of irish-gaelic art in the entire place. rather, the focus was on the artifacts collected from the anglo-irish ascendancy and the life led by those in the upper classes of irish society from 1690-1840. 
it was this sort of issue that struck me when i looked at the names of all the portrait artists, many of whom were born in ireland but worked in england. confusingly, irish artists were not just decided on the basis of birthplace; the collection also included pieces by scottish artists who worked in ireland. The combined inclusion raised the question in my mind of how we determine the “ethnic­ity” of art. clearly, the question of birthplace matters but so does the reigon where the artist lived and worked. The chicago art institute does not seem to privilege one quali­fier over the other, and i’m not sure i’m prepared to choose one either. 
all told, the exhibit was certainly worth the visit. The pieces included were beautiful, and the world they pre­sented fascinating, even if it was a fairly one-sided view of the irish world from 1690-1840. 
Contact Caelin Milko at cmoriari@nd.edu 

By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
scene writer 

a mountain goats album is almost never just a collec­tion of songs. almost every work by John darnielle’s proj­ect has been a concept album focusing on themes such as a troubled marriage or darnielle’s youth. on “beat the champ,” the latest mountain goats offering, there’s a new focus: the world of professional wrestling. 
it seems an odd choice to focus on, but it’s just another of a new “wrestling renaissance.” once mocked as child­ish and not a “real” sport, it seems to have found a new lease of life in recent years. many fans see it more as an ensemble drama that can tell many stories at once, with actors performing circus-like feats of athleticism. “beat the champ” coincides with the move of wrestling back to­wards the direction of its glory days, before all-american heroes defeated bizarre foreign stereotypes every week and ridiculous soap-opera storylines took over. 
darnielle takes the listener back to a time when wres­tling was truly a theatrical drama. clean-fighting, popu­lar “faces” would wrestle against cheating “heels.” it was simple, but the heroes and villains were memorable, and their stories were always entertaining. it was still adored by children — darnielle himself admits he grew up on it — but there was something deeper in the stories and in the real lives of the wrestlers that made a truly lasting im­pression on the songwriter. 
on “beat the champ,” darnielle manages to tell some of those stories and show the deeper message beneath. on “Foreign object,” the catchiest song on the album with an entertaining horn accompaniment, he sings as a wrestler resorting to underhanded tactics as he uses his last ounces of energy in a certain defeat. The song’s still just about a performer in a fight that isn’t real, but lines like, “if you can’t beat ‘em make ‘em bleed like pigs,” offer the dark wisdom that earlier mountain goats albums are famous for. 
perhaps the most clear message in “beat the champ,” though, is about father-son relationships. pro wrestlers embody masculinity and heroism; every father hopes their son will see them like they see their wrestling heroes. The stereotypical claim of “my dad could beat up your dad,” or “my dad’s hulk hogan” are a reminder of how wrestling, masculinity and fatherhood are tied together. 
in “beat the champ,” darnielle’s abusive stepfather — the subject of many mountain goats songs before — always seems to be in mind. in “The legend of chavo guerrero,” darnielle tells the story of his childhood wres­tling hero. To the young darnielle, everything’s so black and white: guerrero is the good guy, his opponents are the villains. his stepfather, on the other hand, can’t com­pare to the wrestler. singing, “you let me down, but chavo never did,” darnielle shows exactly why wrestling meant so much to him in his youth and why it’s still important enough for him to sing about today. 
much of the rest of the album focuses on life on the road for wrestlers. opener “southwestern Territories” tells of travelling to cheap venues to fight friends or take falls. again, there’s a reference to fatherhood, but it’s closer to reality than darnielle’s childhood dreams. The busy schedule and regular defeats for a struggling professional are contrasted with the dream of guerrero as a father-fig­ure saving the day. “choked out” tells of a wrestler who’ll go to any lengths in a fight to earn the money to feed his family. The little-known wrestler at the bottom of the bill fighting to put food on the table is perhaps even more of a hero than stars like chavo. 
wrestling in the 1970s might have been a tale of heroes and villains, but in “beat the champ,” darnielle reminds us that heroes of our youth are people just like us. behind the simple “good versus evil” stories of wrestling, there’s so much more. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 
The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Check this out 

INSIDE COLUMN 

remember laurenhill 
Miko Malabute 
associate scene editor 

over the weekend, mount st. Joseph university’s women’s basket­ball player lauren hill passed away after a brave battle with terminable brain cancer. at the age of 19, she was diagnosed with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma only a year before her death, and that year would be marked with physical and emotional hardship. The sounds and bright lights of basketball games were of­ten too much for hill, who would wear special sunglasses and head­phones or earplugs to help cope with the glaring sights and the blaring sounds. it’s a wonder as to why she would put herself through so much extra pain and hardship. 
yet i introduced hill as a mount st. Joseph’s women’s basketball player. she was a student athlete before any­thing else, and it was that which she wanted to be remembered for. she made it well known that it was her dream to play collegiate basketball, and she succeeded in it. she played in four games this season, and as blog­ger Kmarko of barstool sports said, she hit some of “the most emotional layup[s] you’ll ever see in a sports game.” 
as is typical of many other tran­scendent athletes, she succeeded in the face of adversity, ignoring her own personal pain and struggle in favor of a much greater cause. at the age of 19, she raised over $2 million for cancer research — before she reached the age to legally drink, she was able to leave a lasting impact on our society, a legacy some of us waste years never even coming close to building or achieving. 
early last november, after coming out of her first game for the mount st. Joseph, she said in a Tv interview, “let’s not call it my last game. This is my first collegiate game.” here is a woman who had every reason to give up and focus on her health, but what she showed the world that day what was good for her health: living out her dreams and relentlessly giv­ing chase to constantly achieve those dreams. That is how she should have lived her life, and did indeed. she was an inspiration to all those who were fortunate enough to know her tragic story. 
This weekend, we lost a valuable basketball player and an even more cherished woman. however, we gained an invaluable reminder to keep fighting for our dreams, that living everyday for our goals is what makes our livelihood. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

anyone who knows me knows i love movies. i’m al­ways looking for the best cinematic experiences, both new and old, to add to my repertoire. when i was in ninth grade, i started compiling a list of films that i had not seen and wanted to watch. This list currently stands at 206 films (franchises count as a single entry), and it just keeps growing. i’m currently about 30 per­cent of the way through it. 
one of the most valuable tools for completing this list has been the university of notre dame’s library film collection. The hesburgh library has over 12,000 movies on tape and disc, and they’re freely available on three-day loans to undergraduates. The diversity of selection is very impressive — everything from the classic soviet silent film “battleship potemkin” to flicks as recent as 2010’s “The Town.” 
it’s gotten to be a ritual for me to pick out a new dvd to celebrate the successful completion of an exam or paper, usually while bolting down handfuls of grab­and-go popcorn. i encourage the rest of you to try it as well. at time of writing, i have “on the waterfront” checked out, which is number 49 on my list, between “drive” and “The expendables 2.” i look forward to seeing marlon brando talk about how he “could have been a contender” — and presumably the rest of the movie. 
however, the hesburgh library’s collection is not the only one on campus. There’s also the Kresge law library, which has its own collection of dvds. some of them have clear legal themes, like 1992’s “a Few good men.” others are just plain weird. i can’t imagine for the life of me what Frank miller’s “sin city” is doing in a law library, unless it’s meant to illustrate egregious violations of amendments Four through eight of the constitution. 
The puzzling thing about these two collections is that they operate on separate systems. if you want to check out a book from the Kresge library as an under­graduate, you have to get yourself put into the library’s system. wouldn’t it be easier for every undergrad to be entered into Kresge’s system by default? 
The effort required to become eligible to use the law library is pretty minimal, so i don’t feel too upset about it. The same cannot be said, however, for the saint mary’s collection. let’s say i wanted to watch aaron sorkin’s 1996 film “The american president.” The hesburgh library does not stock it, but saint mary’s cushwa-leighton library does. so i’d have to go all the way to saint mary’s and back — a 20-minute round trip if i walk or who-knows-how-long waiting for the bus. and as much as i love martin sheen and michael douglas, it’s just not worth it. 
i respectfully suggest that these systems be com­bined into one, similar to how an ordinary municipal library works. (as notre dame is a city in its own right, applying a city model here is perfectly reasonable.) This way, students from both schools would have ac­cess to each other’s collections. a student could re­serve a film from one of the other school’s libraries and have it delivered and held at a more convenient loca­tion. it seems like an easy way to help students get the most out of the libraries’ contents. 
either way, i’ll continue to patronize notre dame’s many films. i only hope that one day i’ll be able to more easily access saint mary’s impressive collection as easily as i do those of hesburgh and Kresge. once i finish “on the waterfront,” i’ll have checked off 76 of the entries on my list, with 130 to go. it should be a piece of cake, as long as they don’t make any more movies in the near future. 
Stephen Raab is a junior studying chemical engineering.  He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at  sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
‘letters live’ 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

a few weeks ago, something called letters live occurred at london’s Freemason’s hall in covent garden to great aplomb. helped by the fact that the two recurring stars for the few performances were benedict cumberbatch and his leading lady in sherlock, louise brealey, the show did extremely well for having no plot, no set and really nothing extraordinarily exciting. what was the cause of the great furor? simply a group of celebrities reading fa­mous letters from significant figures of the past and present. 
benedict cumberbatch read Kurt cobain’s last letter before he died. ben Kingsley and his son read rudyard Kipling and his son’s wwi letters. sally hawkins read a letter from vincent van gogh. it was a variety of topics, a variety of authors, a variety of ac­tors performing them, and yet this mishmash enticed audiences. 
letters have always had something oddly powerful over our psyche. They are so personal, and yet there is the chance that they could become very public. i am currently reading a biography of Queen victoria, and most of the information about her personal life comes from letters she wrote to her husband prince albert, her uncle leopold, prime minister and member of the whigs lord melbourne and many others during her reign. They are filled with trivial bits of information, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you, volunteers 
This past saturday, april 11, i was a volunteer at a habitat For humanity/rebuilding Together project on south bend’s northwest side. The work performed by a group of volunteers from saint mary’s college was arduous and detailed, and the finished product was very high quality. i would like to take this opportunity to thank them publicly. 
Thank you!
 Dustin Blythe 

south bend resident april 13 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“i’ve come to believe that each of us has a personal calling that’s as unique as a fingerprint - and that the best way to succeed is to discover what you love and then find a way to offer it to others in the form of service, working hard, and also allowing the energy of the universe to lead you.” 
— Oprah Winfrey      Actress and television talk show host 
but all together they form a picture of Queen victoria that we would not otherwise get, if we just concerned ourselves with the press’s reports of her. 
but what saddens me is that the art of letter-writing appears to be dying out. at the moment, the very last forms of written communication seem to be post­cards, and thank you letters when we have received a gift. even these have been redacted to very simple phrases, including the normal “Thank you for the fabulous gift, i will really enjoy using it,” etc., etc., etc., and then probably a question about how their family is doing. 
i’ve never really mastered the art of a good thank you letter, much to my mother’s chagrin, and she has done everything possible to try to make us better at immediately writing thank yous (one christmas she would not let us open another present until we had written the thank you to the person who had given us the one that we just opened; needless to say that did not go as well as she had hoped). 
as much as i complain about writing letters, there is something very rewarding about receiving a hand­written note. it’s personal. it shows that someone has cared enough to taken time out of their day to write something about their lives and enquire after yours. it means that they had to make a trip to the post of­fice or post box to send it, and that they would like a response in return. it holds a lot more meaning than a cursory text sent off briefly in the morning when you’d like to catch up. 
i wonder in the future if we will be able to have things like letters live. sure, we have e-mails, but as we’ve learned from sony pictures, e-mails are not necessarily something that you would like shared with the public, especially ones you may have dashed off and sent without a second thought. 
and yes, maybe one day we will be reading past text message conversations. but it just doesn’t seem the same as having a hand-written piece of paper sitting in front of you, it’s edges folded and creased because someone has picked it up and read it over and over again, perhaps for the memories attached. 
i’ve got a box of letters at home from when i tried to write letters from university to my friends at other colleges. we actually did quite well, considering how busy we were. i pick them up now and again, just to remember what it was like when i’d written them. it is a nice reminder that my friends and i care about each other, even when some of the messages were “i can’t write a long note, but i just wanted to say hi.” 
seeing these ads for letters live reminded me that sometimes it’s nice to spend a little bit of extra time on the people you care about. and you never know, one day i might be famous, and i’d rather people read my letters than my e-mails. 
Kitty Baker is a Program of Liberal Studies and film, television and theatre major and eldest of the Fabulous Baker Girls, who hails from New York City.  She can be contacted at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In honor of Cathy Pieronek 
“hard, but fair.” 
“a woman i want to become.” 
“The reason i graduated.” 
“one of my greatest mentors.” 
“The reason i stuck with engineering.” 
“The perfect role model for engineers everywhere.” 
“an incredible advisor, an even better friend.” 
“The fiercest advocate you could have in your corner.” 
“highly intelligent, motivated, and innovative.” 
“a force for good.” 
These are the words students have used to describe the college of engineering’s dean of academic affairs, cathy pieronek, both before her passing last Thursday and in the days since. cathy, as students called her, had one of the more difficult jobs on campus. she was responsible for providing 900 young adults with their best chance of academic success in the midst of all of the other opportunities notre dame provides us. 
students who just years earlier had been at the top of their high school classes, never having failed in their lives, were sent to cathy’s second-floor office in Fitzpatrick hall when their grades dropped and academic probation or suspension was looming. The phrase, “the fear of god,” has been used by more than a few of those students. 
you see, cathy did not accept excuses. if you put in the effort, however, she matched you every step, working with professors, rectors, counseling staff and parents, to fight for your success. Time and time again, that same student who was frustrated sophomore year by the standards cathy held him to proudly walked up the steps of the dome on gradu­ation day speaking her praises for helping him to get there. 
cathy also served as a mentor to the student lead­ers of the college. The same passion she had for helping struggling students was funneled into devel­oping student leaders in the college of engineering. she pushed for meetings that produced outcomes, placed us on college-wide committees and sought our opinions. There was hardly a week that went by where she wasn’t asking about the challenges of be­ing an engineering student or running plans for new programs past us. 
during her time in the dean’s office, cathy raised retention rates across the college. she is primarily responsible for the increase in the retention and graduation rates of female engineers at nd. she was the type of advisor you went back to see every time you were on campus, the type you would always want a recommendation letter from. 
To today’s engineering student leaders: guide cathy’s successor to achieve the same results. To the struggling students: do not let her last days of work in you go to waste. To the pieronek family: please take solace in the future achievements of former students that would not have been possible without the dedication cathy showed to all of us. 
sincerely, 

Shannon Warchol O’Brien 
class of 2013 civil engineer 
Abigail (Wilkins) McDowell 
class of 2011 civil engineer 
Rosemary Alberico 
class of 2012 chemical engineer 
Matt McDowell 
class of 2012 aerospace engineer 
Erin Vogel 
class of 2013 aerospace engineer 
Chris Hensler 
class of 2013 chemical engineer 
Katie Winter 
class of 2014 mechanical engineer 
Brian Quinn 
class of 2014 aerospace engineer 
Jillian Montalvo 
senior computer science 
Maggie Miller 
senior chemical engineering 
Ryan Griffin 
senior aerospace engineering april 13 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Not everything can be a sport 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
There are many debates in the sports world today, including those about performance en­hancing drugs, salary caps, shot clocks and so on. however, one debate that is not given much attention is the most fundamen­tal to the sports world: what is a sport? 
merriam-webster defines a sport as “a contest or game in which people do certain physi­cal activities according to a spe­cific set of rules and compete against each other.” but do we as a sports culture subscribe to this definition? basketball and foot­ball would definitely be sports by this definition, but what about more obscure activities like synchronized swimming or stock-car racing? 
For instance, does moving the steering wheel and pushing the gas pedal in a nascar race constitute enough “physical ac­tivity” to count as a sport in the merriam-webster definition? do synchronized swimmers truly compete against each other when they perform different routines and are judged subjectively? 
my goal here is not to belittle nascar or synchronized swim­ming, both of which require incredible amounts of talent and commitment, but to illustrate the point that any dictionary definition of a sport is too broad. instead, i move that we define a sport as this: a competitive activity, that uses primarily hu­man effort, in which the winner is determined through head-to­head competition or absolute and objective scores. 
my definition is notably more restrictive of what is considered a sport. nascar and equestrian events would not qualify because they does not use “primar­ily human effort” and neither would synchronized swimming because it is based on subjective scoring. The subjective scoring aspect of my definition also ex­cludes more popular activities like ice skating, gymnastics and snowboarding. 
humans as judges and refer­ees are inherently flawed, as is evident by the numerous blown calls in the ncaa tournament, and to base a sport on such sub­jectivity is thus also flawed. For example, if ice skater a is better at executing jumps than ice skater b, but skater b is more graceful in the dance aspects of the routine, who is truly better? unless the skaters perform the same routine it is impossible to tell. sports re­quire a concrete system of deter­mining value or points and that is why i do not consider ice skating and other subjectively-scored activities to be a sports. 
by this, i am not arguing that all sports should be played the same way. For instance foot­ball teams can choose to focus more on running the ball rather than passing or vice versa, but the number of points scored is constant no matter how a team scored. 
another factor that should be considering when defining a sport is our popular conscious­ness. i am a big believer that per­ception forms reality and when applied to this question. This means if the majority of people think something is a sport then it is a sport by virtue of perception. This doesn’t change much for more popular sports like football or baseball which are strongly rooted in our cultural history, but it does have ramifications for lesser known sports. 
i turn again to synchronized swimming to show this point. in 1984, saturday night live performed a skit spoofing syn­chronized swimming for being feminine, which featured come­dians harry shearer and martin short. i did not write off synchro­nized swimming because martin short made fun of it, but situa­tions like this debase the value of synchronize swimming in the eyes of the public, making it and other less popular activities less likely to be given the label of be­ing a “sport.” 
in an environment where some athletes are being paid millions of dollars, what is and is not a sport matters. changes in the popularity of a sport can affect thousands of people and gener­ate or lose hundreds of thousands of dollars in ticket sales and Tv deals. This is why we, as a sports culture, must be careful and thoughtful about what is and is not a sport. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC GOLF | Trine spring classic 

belles tie for fifth in Trine spring classic 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
saint mary’s finished in a tie for fifth place out of 11 teams at the Trine spring classic, which was held on Friday and saturday at Zollner golf course in angola, indiana. 
after the first day of compe­tition, the belles sat sixth with a score of 366; junior Katie Zielinski led saint mary’s in the opening round with an 89, good to place 23rd individually after 18 holes. 
sophomore courtney carlson carded a 90 to sit 25th through one round while first-year Katilyn cartone shot a 92 to place 30th at the end Friday’s play. senior Janice heffernan shot a 95 to tie for 32nd, and freshman Kelsey conkright shot a 96, which tied her for 36th place. playing as an indi­vidual, freshman lydia lorenc also carded a 96. hope led the field through 18 holes with a first-round 327. 
while the first day of competition did not go so well for the belles, the second was better as they improved on their score, carding a 340 to move them into a tie for fifth with wheaton in the final standings. 

belles head coach Kim moore said while she was not pleased with the overall finish, she was happy with her team’s bounce-back day saturday. 
“The results were not exactly what i wanted, but when you start off the way we started you can expect to finish were we did,” moore said. “however, i am glad that we did better the second day and were able to finish a little more respectable.” 
carlson shot an 84 saturday to finish with a two-day score of 174, leading all belles for the tournament to finish 17th while heffernan shot the best saturday score for a belle, card­ing an 81 to finish with a two-day 176, good for 20th. 
Zielinski shot an 88 saturday to finish in 22nd place while cartone consolidated her first-day 92 with a second-day 87 to tie for 24th. conkright rounded out the tournament with a 92 to finish 34th and lorenc tied for 38th with a second-day 97. 
hope remained in front after the second day of play, taking home the title with a 36-hole 
656. bethel finished second, seven strokes behind, while Trine carded a 678 to finish third. 
The belles are back in ac­tion this afternoon when they play in the first round of the miaa tournament in marshall, michigan, and moore said her team will need faith to find success. 
“we need to have confi­dence,” moore said. “we need to believe that we can play with the top two teams in our con­ference. we need to focus on eliminating the mental mis­takes and the big numbers. if we can do those things then i believe we have a great chance to do well.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL | smc 5, oliveT 4; oliveT 10, smc 9; smc 7, alma 5; alma 5, smc 2 
Green leads Saint Mary’s in conference play 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s split a pair of doubleheaders over the week­end, going 1-1 against each olivet and alma. 
The belles (18-8, 5-3 miaa) started out saturday’s home doubleheader with olivet (13­11, 3-5) in dramatic fashion, with a walk-off single from sophomore first baseman caitlyn migawa giving the belles a 5-4 win. 
saint mary’s trailed 4-0 in the middle of the second in­ning saturday morning but came storming all the way back in the bottom of the third. Junior catcher Jillian busfield hit a two-rbi single to cut the comets’ lead to 4-2 before freshman designated player morgan raymer hit a two-run home run to left-center field to tie the game up. 
Five scoreless innings of relief from freshman pitcher mary green helped keep the game tied heading into the bottom of the seventh, when saint mary’s took the lead on migawa’s walk-off single. 
it was olivet, however, that returned the favor in the second game of the double­header, with comets sopho­more designated player Jessica paloumbo hitting a walk-off double to stun saint mary’s. 


Trailing 5-4 entering the fi­nal frame, the belles rattled off five runs in the top of the sev­enth to take what looked like a commanding 9-5 lead thanks in part to junior third baseman Kayla chapman’s three-run home run. 
looking to close out the game, the belles turned to green again on the bump, but this time around, the comets figured the freshman out, scoring five runs in the bottom half of the inning to take the victory. 
Trying to make up games that were rained out during the week, the belles then traveled to alma, michigan, on sunday for a second doubleheader of the weekend and again man­aged a split. 
in the first game of the day, saint mary’s snagged a 7-5 win over the scots (19-11, 10-2). 
after the belles went ahead in the top of the first, alma scored a pair of unearned runs in the bottom of the second to take a 2-1 lead. 
saint mary’s struck right back in the top of the third though, as a two-rbi single from raymer put the belles back ahead. later in the in­ning, freshman right fielder makenzie duncan lined a shot to center field that was mis­played by the scots defense, al­lowing two belles to score and stretch the advantage to 6-2. 
after alma plated a pair of runs, one in the fifth and one in the sixth, the belles notched an insurance run in the sev­enth, when busfield hit an rbi double to take the lead to 7-4. The scots got one more back in the bottom of the inning, but green and the belles hung on to hand alma its second loss of the conference slate. 
The scots, however, an­swered in the second game, jumping out to a 5-0 lead en route to a 5-2 win. 
despite her struggles in the second game saturday, green was named the saint mary’s athlete of the week for her performances. 
The belles will return to ac­tion Thursday, when they host albion in conference action. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Lax 
conTinued From page 12 
Fortunato said the class is com­ing together as a unit heading into the end of the year. 
“we’re really close, and we have really good chemistry and that definitely helps us on the field,” she said. “… we just developed together, and we’re meshing re­ally well right now, and it’s a great place to be going into the post­season, finishing up the regular season.” 
but while they might be young in age, notre dame’s sophomores aren’t treated as such; Fortunato said everyone is looked at the same, regardless of their year. 
“it doesn’t matter what grade you’re in. you’re expected to be playing at a certain level on the field,” Fortunato said. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny shared the same sentiment. 
“we are class blind. i think that class coming together as sopho­mores, they look like juniors to me right now,” she said. “[They’re] re­ally taking control … everybody’s adding and contributing to what we have going on right now.” 
but for notre dame, it wasn’t all peaches and cream this year. a 
M Basketball 
conTinued From page 12 
coach brey, with us having our conversations when he’d keep me calm and say my time was going to come, that meant so much to me.” 
connaughton, a member of the irish baseball team for three seasons who has completed his coursework in the mendoza college of business, also picked up the notre dame club of st. Joseph valley rockne student-athlete award. 
“i don’t know if we’ve had a stu­dent-athlete like [connaughton], to play two sports, to lead, to win, to set the tone, to know what to 
SMC TENNIS | calvin 6, smc 3 
month ago, notre dame was com­ing off a 9-5 loss at now-no. 5 stony brook, their third in as many games. The offense was not firing and the defense had surrendered 41 goals in three games. 
and then something changed 
— and halfpenny attests it to the team’s various groups coming together. 
“collectively, i think that they just have mini-teams within a team out there,” halfpenny said. “we talked about that out in stony brook after a really brutal night, to have to go back into that hotel on long island and know that’s not what we wanted; that wasn’t our best effort out there, and we weren’t gelling. we weren’t click­ing and finding each other, and we weren’t fueling off each other. so mini-teams within a team started to kind of pull together, and you’re starting to see that feed off each other. 
The team hansen made his proclamation about? manchester united. They won the premier league that year. 
Fortunato, annaheim, pearsall and the rest of notre dame’s soph­omore class? They’ll try to prove him wrong again, 20 years later. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
say,” brey said. “… it was one of the greatest displays of leadership we’ve ever had at this university.” 
The awards ceremony fea­tured four additional awards. The outstanding playmaker award went to sophomore guard demetrius Jackson. The most improved player award went to junior forward Zach auguste. The newcomer of the year award went to freshman forward bonzie colson, and the defensive player of the year award went to sopho­more guard steve vasturia. 
“we’re excited about digging back in with next year’s group as we get started,” brey said. 
Contact Brian Hartnett at bhartnet@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

notre dame looks to snag 19th consecutive win 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 17 notre dame looks to extend its win streak to 19 when it hosts bowling green this eve­ning at melissa cook stadium. 
The irish (32-11, 13-5 acc) are currently riding an 18-game win streak, the longest for the program since a 19-game streak in 2005. 
statistically, the irish have been dominant over the course of the win streak, averaging more than nine runs per game, outscoring their opponents 166-27 since the streak began with a 12-0 victory on march 15 against Florida state. 
seven of the 18 victories have been shutout wins for the irish, and in three other victories they have held their opponent to just one run. 
with a victory tomorrow against bowling green (13­19, 4-6 mac), notre dame would also build upon another 
Football 
conTinued From page 12 
“i think the second year of being a full-time or a guy that plays a lot is when you really see the big change,” gilmore said. “For instance, you see a guy like isaac rochell, playing a lot, start­ing games and having some success, and now when he comes into his second year being a full-time guy, do you see the guy jump to become a serious football player?” 
now, as spring prac­tice draws to a close and saturday’s blue-gold game approaches, Kelly said these impressive feat, as it looks to protect its perfect 2015 record at melissa cook stadium; the irish have won all 11 home games this season. 

in these 11 home victories, irish batters have hit for a com­bined average of .412, and have outscored opponents by an 88­11 margin. 
notre dame seniors infielder Katey haus and catcher cassidy whidden are each have plated 16 baserunners at home to lead the team; haus has 42 in all games while whidden has 35. 
whidden leads the squad with four home runs at melissa cook stadium, while haus has homered twice in home contests. 
as notre dame won its last eight home games last season, the irish would reach 20 straight home wins with a victory to­day. The last time the irish lost a home game was april 22, in a 6-2 loss to north carolina state. 
notre dame is coming off a three-game weekend sweep of acc rival boston college, its fourth straight series sweep and 13th consecutive league win. 
This marks the longest, sin-gle-season conference win streak for notre dame since the 2004 season, when the irish reeled off 16 straight victories against big east opponents. 
Today’s meeting between the irish and the Falcons is the first contest between the two squads since 2011, when notre dame swept bowling green in a two-game series. 
sophomore infielder aspen searle leads the Falcons with 22 rbis on the year while senior pitcher Jamie Kertes has a 7-9 record and a 3.61 earned-run average in 15 starts this season. 
First pitch between notre dame and bowling green is scheduled for 6 p.m at melissa cook stadium. 

second-year starters and depth players have demonstrated the improvements necessary to so­lidify notre dame’s pressure. 
“ ... we think guys have im­proved immensely in their individual technique,” Kelly said. “i think guys like rochell is a better pass rusher. i think you’re gonna see, as we move forward, that Trumbetti and okwara are better off the edge than they have been before, so i think they’ll all be improved from last year.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


Saint Mary’s felled by conference foe Calvin 

Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s suffered its sec­ond conference loss this week­end, falling 6-3 to calvin at home. 
The belles (9-8, 3-2 miaa) got out to a fast start, playing strongly in the doubles matches to take an early 2-1 lead. senior captain shannon elliott and ju­nior andrea Fetters won at no. 2 doubles by an 8-4 margin, while junior margaret Faller and first-year maddie minuado won de­cisively at no. 3 doubles, taking home an 8-1 win. senior captain Kayle sexton and sophomore sam setterblad played to a tie­break at no. 1 doubles but lost 7-3 in the extra frame, allowing the Knights (8-6, 3-1) to salvage something from the first flights. 
it was the singles matches where saint mary’s struggled though, as calvin took five of six flights to win the match. 
senior captain Jackie Kjolhede brought home the lone win for the belles in the singles matches 
— leading throughout in the no. 3 flight — but the rest of her team­mates struggled on their own against the Knights. 
First year bailey oppman took the first game 6-0 at no. 6 singles, but lost in three sets after succes­sive defeats (6-4, 6-3) in the latter two sets. 
The belles’ next action comes Tuesday when they host adrian in another conference matchup. 
The bulldogs (9-6, 2-2) rank sixth in the conference standings with one of the younger lineups in the conference — adrian has five freshmen and no seniors — and are coming off an 8-1 loss to Kalamazoo. adrian freshman mcKenzie Kreig snagged the lone win for her team in the contest, winning at no. 6 singles in a “su­per-set” tiebreak. 
saint mary’s currently sits fourth in the conference stand­ings and will be looking to hold that vital spot; only the four high­est-ranked teams at the end of the season make it to the miaa tour­nament. The belles have three remaining conference matches 
— today’s being the first — that will determine their postseason fate. 
The belles and the bulldogs will get underway this afternoon at 4 p.m. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | The observer 

CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucKer 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: explore new opportunities. expand your circle of friends and associates. check out trends and ways to stay up to speed with the changing world around you. embrace love and family, and be open to ideas and suggestions from those you admire and trust. mental, physical and financial growth can be yours if you are progressive and aggressive in your pursuits. your numbers are 2, 9, 23, 26, 33, 38, 41. 
Birthday Baby: you are innovative, intelligent and passionate. you are a humanitarian. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): set boundaries. if you want a relationship to develop nicely, you’ll have to pay attention and strive for equality. don’t take anything for granted. use your intelligence and versatility to make things happen. romance will lead to a higher standard of living. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep situations in perspective. Taking on too much or making demands on others will backfire. emotions will run high, causing arguments at home or at work. be willing to compromise if you want to avoid repercussions. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make changes rather than just talking about them. Follow your heart and discuss your plans with someone you want to share your future with. commitments to something you want to pursue will pay off emotionally and financially. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): unexpected changes will throw you off guard. don’t be sidetracked by disappointment. go about your business regardless of what others do. be careful not to take on responsibilities that are not 
yours. protect your possessions and your reputation. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Future progress will depend on your reactions to those around you. consider how you really feel before you discuss personal matters with those you are close to. a change of heart will cause confusion. re-evaluate what you want and avoid overreacting. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): learn from past mistakes. don’t expect peers to be up-front about intentions when it comes to advancement. you will receive recognition and rewards if you are diligent and follow through with your promises. don’t let your personal life interfere with work. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): everything looks promising. don’t wait for things to come to you. an active approach to achieving what you want will bring you great satisfaction, rewards and future opportunities. put love and romance at the top of your list. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a deep breath and refuse to get caught up in the drama going on around you. Focus on the creative and refrain from being tempted by someone with ulterior motives. be bold, but stay practical and avoid excess. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): go after what you want, but keep fair play in mind. if you try to manipulate a situation to suit your needs, you will be cut short. concentrate on home, family and personal happiness, not outside influences. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid sharing personal or professional information with anyone. someone will use your knowledge to outsmart you at your own game. work quietly toward your goals in a progressive and private manner. caution now will help prevent disappointment later. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): set up an interview, update your resume, look for a better position or start your own business. you’ve got what it takes to get ahead, so don’t wait to take action. love is on the rise. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep up with your responsibilities, no matter what obstacles you face. if you are unsure about someone’s integrity or skeptical about a prognosis, get another opinion. be realistic and honest regarding what you need to do to reach your goals. 


JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city state Zip 

The observer | TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Depth, determination key for defensive line 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
They were the most consis­tent, uniform unit on notre dame’s defense through 2014. The four starters who began the year missed five combined games all season long. They all finished within one tackle of each other’s total. 
but the irish defensive line still fell short. notre dame fin­ished 65th in the country in sacks, 87th in passing yards per game and 64th in rush­ing yards per contest. senior sheldon day was stymied, first by double-teams and then by injury, collecting one sack in 11 games. The rest of the line 
— seniors Jarron Jones and romeo okwara and junior isaac rochell — had no starting experience to speak of and had to adjust to their new roles. 
Four months after the end of last season, that entire line is back and eager to erase the memory of allowing 29.3 points per game. 
“There’s kind of just an un­written rule. we’re kind of just gonna work a little bit harder and do a little bit more,” rochell said. “we didn’t have a good season last year, so coming into this season, something has to change, and something’s gotta give. you do the same things, you get the same results.” 
and unlike last year, the irish will not look to only day to pro­vide the bulk of the rush. 
notre dame returns every starter from last season, as well as six other players who saw the field. in addition, freshman early enrollee Jerry Tillery has made an immediate impact and taken reps with the first team in practice already. 
“There’s not gonna be one guy that we look at and say, ‘alright, he’s gonna have 15 sacks and lead the country.’ but we’re gon­na have a number of guys that we feel like can bring pressure and pressure the quarterback,” irish head coach brian Kelly said. “obviously ... sheldon day inside, he can bring some pres­sure. on the outside, we think we’ve got some guys who can come off the edge individually, but as you see, most of our guys, it’s a combination of lineback­ers, nickels, drops, inside pres­sures. it’s not gonna be one guy. it’s gonna be five, six different players that cumulatively will create.” 
That concentration on depth has been on the forefront of notre dame’s new defensive line coach Keith gilmore’s mind throughout spring ball, espe­cially as several starters missed time due to minor injuries. 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Fortunato, sophomores fuel recent run of success 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
in 1995, soccer pundit alan hansen famously proclaimed, “you can’t win anything with kids.” 
with 48 goals on the season — good for sixth nationally — irish attack cortney Fortunato leads a sophomore class that may very well be set to denounce that theory. 
The no. 11 irish have rattled off six wins from their last seven out­ings — with the lone setback a 9-8 loss to no. 2 north carolina on march 29 — and moved back up the polls after nearly sliding out after a rough first month of the season. 
and Fortunato has keyed that run — she has scored 33 times over those seven games, includ­ing an eight-goal game against virginia Tech on march 14 and a six-goal effort in a 14-4 drubbing of then-no. 4 virginia away from home april 4. 
but while she is the leading scorer, Fortunato is far from the only sophomore making an im­pact for notre dame. 
midfielder casey pearsall has 16 goals, 16 assists. a pair of at­tacks — grace muller and heidi annaheim — each have scored 17 times and reached the 20-point mark. 

midfielder alex dalton has started all 14 games and is second on the team in ground balls (26) and third in draw controls (30) while goalkeeper liz o’sullivan has made 84 saves en route to a 9-5 record. 
needless to say, the group is making an impact. 
annaheim — who scored just six goals last season — said a big part of the group’s success is how tightly-knit the class is. 


“we’re actually really, really close; even on and off the field, you can see it,” annaheim said. “we work really, really well to­gether, and we’re all over the field, from goalie all the way to attack, and you can see it on the field. everyone who plays, who doesn’t play. we’re all so close with each other so it’s really good.” 
see w lacrosse PAGE 10 
“i always talk about having two and a spare. a pair and a spare,” gilmore said. “i want to go two deep and then have a third guy who can roll as a tackle or an end. so i’m looking at trying to develop 10 guys on a weekly basis.” 
while last season may have been difficult for inexperienced players like okwara, rochell and sophomore andrew Trumbetti, gilmore said in the first week of spring practice such growing pains are neces­sary for a player’s development. 
see FooTball PAGE 10 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Seniors share MVP honors 
By BRIAN HARTNETT 
senior sports writer 
There was much to celebrate at “an evening with notre dame men’s basketball,” the team’s annual awards cere­mony, monday night at purcell pavilion. 
before a packed house at the arena’s heritage hall, irish players, coaches and staff commemorated a 32-win sea­son and national top-five fin­ish, said their farewells to the team’s seniors, guard Jerian grant and guard/forward pat connaughton, and ended the night by unfurling the acc tournament championship banner that will hang in the rafters of purcell pavilion start­ing next season. 
“This was a team that cap­tured the nation, and certainly it captured our fanbase and our fans,” irish head coach mike brey said. “… never have i had other head division i basket­ball coaches, starting with the Final Four and [going] through recruiting weekend [last week­end], talk about, ‘That was un­believable. i was cheering for you.’” 
in a departure from the norm, the notre dame monogram club awarded two mvp awards — one to grant, the other to connaughton. 
“all of our great teams at notre dame — and this was one of the greatest teams we’ve had — have special leader­ship in those great years, stu­dents who take on the mantle of leading their peers to that success and accept all of the responsibilities and all the dif­ficulties that come with being a leader,” notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick said. “and i have rarely been around two better than pat and Jerian.” 
grant acknowledged there were times in his career when he considered leaving notre dame but said he was glad to have stayed at the university. 
“when i came here, [brey] asked me to redshirt, and i talk­ed to my family, i wanted to get out of here, i didn’t want to sit on the bench for a whole year and watch other people play,” grant said. “Just talking to 
see m basKeTball PAGE 10 




