The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 48, issue 84 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND remembers Dan Kim 
Students, faculty mourn student death 
By LESLEY STEVENSON 
news editor 
Friday night, the northernmost edge of the grotto glowed with the light of a single three-letter word. Fifty-five candles spelled out “dan,” a tribute to sophomore daniel kim, whose friends had gathered to remember the former business student and fencer. 
kim, 21, died at his off-campus residence and was found early Friday afternoon, according to a notre dame press release. The south bend Tribune reported that an autopsy was conducted Friday, but authorities will have to wait for toxicology results to 
see kim PAGE 5 




Parents visit SMC campus 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s kicked off its premiere First year parents' weekend, hosted by the student government association (sga) and student affairs, Friday evening. 
Freshman class president caroline koenig said the week­end was arranged for freshmen and their parents in order to bring families together sooner in the school year. 
“a lot of people felt as though it was too long to wait until sophomore parents' weekend to see students' parents,” she said. 
saint mary's president carol ann mooney addressed attend­ees at dinner, which koenig said was exciting for the student body. mooney called the transi­tion between first year and soph­omore year a critical one, filled with a lot of important decisions, koenig said. 
“This is the first time saint mary’s has hosted a weekend like this for first year parents,” mooney said. “we were talking about the fact that we had events for parents every year, and we thought the first year parents' event was orientation. 
"but then we realized that a lot happens between the date of orientation and the time we host sophomore parents' [weekend]. … it was a long time between seeing you and welcoming you to campus, so we decided to make a change.” 
The events scheduled for the weekend included different pro­grams for parents and students to attend, koenig said. 
“we decided to keep the 
see parenTs PAGE 4 


Service dog aides mental illness 
By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
Junior ellen chaleff’s dog, a dachshund/rat terrier mix named Fred, is there when she wakes up in the morning. he’s there, wearing an nypd coat, when she walks between class­es. he’s there when she sits in class, when she eats at the din­ing hall, when she’s at ultimate Frisbee practice and when she goes to bed at night. 
and if chaleff has a panic at­tack, he’s also there, curled up on her lap until it passes. 
The first service dog for men­tal illness on campus, Fred has been at notre dame with chaleff since last halloween. 
chaleff, who began showing symptoms of bipolar disorder in high school, said she found out about him after he was res­cued from an abusive home. he already had training as an emotional support dog, making him easier to train further as a service animal. professionals trained him to help with bipo­lar disorder, and chaleff said she did the rest. 
“i trained him to be in public, to be in a restaurant, to be in a dining hall, to sit in a class­room,” she said. 
disability services   coordina­tor scott howland said students requesting accommodation 
see dog PAGE 5 



Lecture questions historical concepts of beauty 
By JENNIFER FLANAGAN 
news writer 
david o'connor, an associ­ate professor of philosophy at notre dame, encouraged audi­ence members Friday to think more broadly about the history of concepts of beauty in his key­note address at the 10th annual edith stein project conference in mckenna hall auditorium. 
“what i wanted to do, to start out the conference, was to think in a pretty broad and historical way about how there have always been tensions surrounding the status of beauty,” he said. 
There is both a biblical and philosophical history to the ten­sions of beauty evident in two formative passages found in both disciplines, o'connor said: the creation story in genesis and plato’s phaedrus. 
The creation story in genesis is biblically the most formative passage about beauty because it shows the connection between god’s creative power of man and man’s creative power of beauty, o’connor said. 
“god is the absolute cre­ator, and so when we reach the passage in genesis that god will create humans 
see keynoTe PAGE 4 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
ann marie Jakubowski 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
brian hartnett alex Jirschele 
Asst. Managing Editor: isaac lorton Asst. Managing Editor: kevin song Asst. Managing Editor: samantha Zuba 

News Editor: lesley stevenson Viewpoint Editor: gabriela leskur Sports Editor: mary green Scene Editor: allie Tollaksen Saint Mary’s Editor: kelly konya Photo Editor: wei lin Graphics Editor: keri o’mara Multimedia Editor: brian lach Advertising Manager: elaine yu Ad Design Manager: Jasmine park Controller: cristina gutierrez 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471

Office Manager & General Info
Fax: (574) 631-6927
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ajakubo1@nd.edu

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 bhartnet@nd.edu

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu

Assistant Managing Editors
ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu
(574) 631-4541 ilorton@nd.edu ksong@nd.edu, szuba@nd.edu

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com

Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 cene@ndsmcobserver.com

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kkonya01@saintmarys.edu

Saint Mary’s Desk 
kk nya01@saintmarys.edu

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published

Policies 

in print and online by the students of the university of notre
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content,
in print and online by the students of the university of notre including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, administration of either institution. The observer reserves
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
administration of either institution. The observer reserves The news is reported as accurately and objectively as
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the managing editors and department editors. commentaries,
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant letters and columns present the views of the authors and not
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, necessarily those of The observer.
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free
necessarily those of The observer. expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged.
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. information.
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski.

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski.

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday post office information
except during exam and vacation periods. The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one except during exam and vacation periods.
semester. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one
The observer is published at: semester.
024 south dining hall The observ r is published at:
notre dame, in 46556-0779 024 south dinin hall

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices n tre d me, in 46556-0779
posTmasTer p riodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices
send address corrections to: posTmasTer
The observer send address corrections to:
p.o. box 779 The observer
024 south dining hall 
p. . box 779
notre dame, in 46556-077 024 south dining hall
The observer is a member of the associated press. notre dame, n 46556-077
all reproduction rights are reserved. The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What was your favorite cartoon or childhood show? 



Jim English 
freshman 
knott hall 
“rugrats.” 
Laura Syers 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“Totally spies.” 
Livvie May 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“clifford The big red dog.” 

Ross Laedtke 
freshman 
keough hall 
“clifford The big red dog.” 
Tony molinaro freshman keough hall 
“power rangers.” 
Victoria Madison 
freshman pasquerilla east hall 
“out of the box.” 
Photo courtesy of Matthew Krach 

Matthew Krach, Patrick Krach, Dan Chrzanowski, Drew Hentz, Nick Miles and Joe Tenaglia stand in front of a snow dinosaur they constructed on South Quad. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

carolyn hutyra ben padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

haleigh ehmsen brian plamondon peter durbin mary green 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
sara shoemake Jimmy kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

Chili Cook-Off “Beyond Conflict, Grotto Trip Staff Mass Even Fridays Martial
amy ackermann macaila demario 
Harper Hall The Power of Shared Bond Hall Log Chapel Arts Night 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Experience” 10 p.m. - 11 p.m. 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. Rockne Memorial $10/person. Proceeds Law School Sponsored by Asian Presided by Rev. Jim 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.
Corrections 

to benefit ND Relay for 5:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. American Association. Bracke. Reserve your spot in a Jan. 29 article about a presentation Life. Lecture by co-founder online via RecRegister.
The observer regards itself as to the stude t senate about a new First
a professional publication and 
of Beyond Conflict. 

year course, paul manrique, the program
strives for the highest standards 
“The University, Stephane Wrembel Corby Night Mindful Meditation Men’s Hockey
director for new student engagement
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Theology and the and His Band Corby Hall Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice
in th office of the vice president

however, recognize that we will make 
Curriculum” Legends 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Center Arena
for tud nt affairs, was inaccuratelymistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Geddes Hall 8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Learn more about the 5:15 p.m. - 6:25 p.m. 7:35 p.m. - 9:35 p.m.
described as the sao program director.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. French-born guitarist. Congregation of Holy Open to students, Irish take on
The observer regrets this error.
we can correct our error. 

Lecture. Cross. faculty and staff. Providence. 


professor reviews masculinity in media 
By MADISON JAROS 
news writer 
notre dame professor of the­ology John cavadini said society has forgotten what it truly means to be a man in his talk "media and manliness: a brief study" at the edith stein conference on Friday. 
To illustrate his point, cavadini described the book "how to be a man," which he said profiles in­dividuals whom authors consid­er great men. cavadini said the book failed to portray a positive ideal of masculinity. 
“many stories [in the book], which answered the ques­tion how to be a man, de­picted promiscuous, disloyal, cowardly, uncouth, abusive, violent, unfaithful, chauvinist, discourteous, greedy, ruthless, parasitical and lazy men,” he said. 
many men may fall into these categories, so it is good to be warned about following in their footsteps, cavadini said. 
"but the fact that the title of all of the stories is "how to be a man" puts them into a different perspective," he said. "That is, as though as a culture we have for­gotten that the word ‘man’ can represent any ideal with positive content. or as though as a cul­ture we are uncomfortable with the very idea that the word 'man' might have something distinc­tive and positive about it.” 
negative media portrayals of what it means to be a man have the power to harm men’s opin­ions of themselves, cavadini said, just as misogynistic portrayals of women in the media are harmful to women. 
“Feminist writers of the last decades have rightly pointed out that standard cultural narratives about women are internalized by many girls and women as self-loathing, precisely insofar as they are women," he said. “i won­der now if our standard cultural narratives about men are begin­ning to do the same thing.” 
There are portrayals in the me­dia of what it means to be a true man although they are not often recognized as such, cavadini said. an episode of "The office" ends with michael scott crying while he professes his love for 

Museum leads discussion 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
bridget hoyt, curator of edu­cation at the snite museum of art, led a discussion Friday of photos by social documen­tary photographer sebastiao salgado at the biweekly labor café meeting. 
Two of salgado’s photo se­ries, of the gold mines of serra pelada in brazil and the oil field fires in kuwait, were selected and presented by hoyt at the meeting, which the higgins labor studies program and the center for social concerns (csc) sponsored. 
daniel graff, director of un­dergraduate studies for the history department, said by making something into art, the very nature of the thing is changed. 
“The way that it’s shot and the way that it’s framed ennobles it," graff said. "i think it’s in­teresting that there’s this sort of tension when films or photo­graphs show us these things we think of as ugly when, even still, the act of making them into art seems to ennoble them.” 
Junior accounting major sebastian morelos said the photo display raises ques­tions about issues of ethics and exploitation. 
“[This] would bring up the question of if he is exploiting the workers by putting [the pictures] in a gallery,” morelos said. 
hoyt said one of the photo­graphs was valued at approxi­mately $10,000. 
as the discussion focused on the ethical nature of salgado's photographs and similar art­ists, graduate student srishti agnihotri said these types of pictures garner criticism from many people in other countries. 
“i come from a country where there’s a lot of criticism of the west engaging in what people call ‘poverty porn,’" she said. 
"They go to these countries, and they glorify these images of pov­erty. but i think that when pho­tographers take these pictures, they are telling their stories.” 
The suffering of others has shaped the nature of all types of art, agnihotri said, and prob­lems arise when they are not shown. 
“it’s just that when communi­ties predominantly have suffer­ing, if we see art as something that diverts from that, then we are depriving them of their sto­ries and their art, and that has been a problem with history,” she said. 
The labor café is open to all students, faculty and staff to discuss contemporary issues related to work and social jus­tice. more information regard­ing these and other events can be found at the higgins labor studies program’s website. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

his girlfriend Jan. Throughout the episode, other characters assert their manliness through acts of force and control, but it is michael’s profession of love that is most manly, cavadini said. 
“what’s more manly than the risk of assertion of true love?” he said. “whatever else it is, true manliness seems to involve not force … not control … not the status of domination … but the risk of self-assertion that makes one truly vulnerable and accountable. 
"putting oneself in a position where one risks looking silly, but has something to live up to — the risk of love, which will always in­volve the waiver of the privilege which disdains love and tries to replace it with force, control or status. none of the other versions of manliness involve any risk freely accepted.” 
True masculinity is ultimately more gentle than what the media portrays or what society believes, cavadini said. 
“The message seems to be that true manliness has nothing to fear from a world which seems to deconstruct the privileges of masculinity because true mas­culinity has nothing to do with these things in the first place," he said. “True manliness, it seems, is the willingness in a man to take the risk of the assertion of love, that is, of self-gift, magic that was always the reality all along.” 
Contact Madison Jaros at mjaros@nd.edu 

lecture focuses on catholic teaching 
By J.P. GSCHWIND 
news writer 
Fr. bill dailey, lecturer at notre dame law school and rector of stanford hall, examined the conflict between catholicism and modern cultural trends in a lecture titled “hope for hollow men? moving beyond illusory autonomy toward genuine Freedom” as part of the edith stein project conference on saturday in mckenna hall. 
dailey began the lecture by asking the audience to raise their hands if they disagreed with church teaching on the human person and sexuality. noting that only a few hands were raised, dailey said the audience represented an unusual segment of both the american public and american catholics, as many have views in opposition to the 
church on social issues such as contraception and abortion. after playing a recording of 
T.s. eliot's poem “The hollow men," dailey said the morbid content of the poem, although commonly associated with the devastation of world war i, is ap­plicable to the spiritual hollow­ness of today. 
“we still wrestle with bleak­ness as a culture,” he said. 
dailey said he sees eliot’s im­age of hollow men filled with straw as a metaphor for humans using substitutes for god like power and pride. dailey said we must empty ourselves of this straw before we can be open to god. 
“christ emptied himself," he said. "The only ones who can cling to this hope are those that empty themselves." 
This absence of god is evident in the existentialist movement of the 20th century, daily said, citing albert camus’s allegory of the continuous struggle of sisyphus to push a boulder up a hill as a representation of futile human endeavors to find mean­ing in life. 
“you have to get a sense of where does ethics get off the ground, where it comes from, and the answer is always filled with defensive adverbs like 'per­sonally,'” he said. 
as a teacher in ethics classes, daily said he repeatedly encoun­tered students who prefaced any moral statements or judgements with the disclaimer “person­ally.” he said the work of rené descartes and immanuel kant, who argued that autonomy is the fundamental essence of be­ing human, has indirectly led to relativism apparent in rhetoric across a wide variety of issues. 
“The word ‘choice’ is the ful­crum of the abortion debate,” he said. 
Quoting supreme court 
see lecTure PAGE 4 




Parents 
conTinued From page 1 
events simple because it is the first First year parents' weekend,” she said. “we start­ed off with check-in on Friday, and then on saturday there were a number of information sessions as well as riedinger house tours.” 
programming included pre­sentations on study abroad and the various programs offered at saint mary’s, koenig said. panel sessions featured pro­fessors and alumnae speaking about their experiences at the college and after graduation. 
“The main event of the week­end was a big dinner at the hilton on saturday night," she said. "This included a dJ, a photo booth for students and parents to take pictures and the president of the college." 
koenig said the ultimate pur­pose of the event was to give parents the opportunity to get involved with the students af­ter the completion of their first semester. 
“i hope that everyone had fun with their parents, and [their parents] got to see campus a lit­tle differently,” she said. “we’ve been here six months, and a lot has changed.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Lecture 
conTinued From page 3 
Justice anthony kennedy in the case of planned parenthood 
v. casey, dailey said “at the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe and of the mystery of human life.” 
This admiration of autonomy has led to negative opinions about humility, dailey said, and now many people say they would rather die than live as a disabled person without use of their faculties. 
“humility is in its own way an inversion of the autonomy that is illusory,” he said. 
dailey concluded by referenc­ing a famous maxim from saint augustine’s "confessions": “our hearts are restless until they rest in you.” dailey said augustine is the perfect ex­ample of a man who kept filling himself with straw until he was able to empty himself to find god. 
Contact J.P. Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 

Keynote 
conTinued From page 1 
beings in the image and likeness, the primary real­ity is that we will share in god’s creative power – we will be procreative,” he said. 
o’connor said the genesis passage emphasizes how the creative power humans possess as images of god is best expressed by humans' ability to procreate. 
“it is actually through our sexuality that we image god,” he said. “The ability to bring a human life out of love from the point of genesis is the power that shows us most immediate­ly what god is giving us by letting us be created in his image." 
Forgetting the divinity in­grained in sexuality would corrupt the definition of beauty that is expressed as sexuality, o'connor said. 

“To reduce sexuality to something purely human would cut us off from some­thing of which we are an image," he said. "imagine being an image and no lon­ger remembering ... of what you are an image." 
o’connor, who next refer­enced the philosophically derived tensions of beauty evident in phaedrus, said beauty is proposed as a dangerous power. he said plato describes beauty as a privilege that other great goods such as courage are not because beauty is im­mediately powerful to our senses. 
plato toys with the philo­sophical idea that human life can be improved with­out beauty, o'connor said. beauty, and the sexual­ity connected to beauty, is a power and therefore dangerous. 
although he said he agrees with plato that beau­ty is a power, o'connor said he warns against giving the power of beauty a negative connotation or avoiding it for fear of exploiting it. 
“it’s a false simplicity to think that beauty is a bad thing," he said. "now, it's equally a false simplic­ity to think that beauty is a always a good thing and to embrace the beauty of images." 
o’connor said the exam­ple of religious art shows how people have always struggled to find a balance between the two poles of avoiding beauty for fear of 
exploitation  or  exploiting  
beauty.  
guido  reni’s  painting  

"saint sebastian" was re­moved from a church after women confessed to sinning at the sight of it, o'connor said. The painting was an example of how, despite re­ligious intent, beauty can become an occasion of sin. 
“The power of an image is not fully contained by the religious or moral narrative that it means to illustrate, and what escapes the frame is our response to physical beauty,” he said. 
The examples of reni’s "saint sebastian" and other similar paintings are proof of a need to find a way to live with the power of an image that we cannot con­tain, o'connor said. 
“we are created male and female in the image in god," he said. "it is a great power and gift, and we cannot simply refuse the gift – even if we fear or know that we will misuse it. and those, for me, are the anxieties of beauty." 
Contact Jennifer Flanagan at jflanag2@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Kim 
conTinued From page 1 
determine exactly how kim died. deputy county coroner michael o’connell said kim’s death was not a homicide or a sui­cide, according to the Tribune. 
Tonight, a memorial mass for kim will take place at 9 p.m. in the basilica of the sacred heart. university president Fr. John Jenkins will be the celebrant and director of campus ministry Fr. pete mccormick will be the homilist. 
‘Just a great guy’ 
Junior paul grima lived in kim’s section of keough hall their freshman year and said kim “had a very close, tight-knit group of friends,” though he maintained relationships with other stu­dents, like grima, outside his best friends and fellow business majors. 
kim’s FiFa video game prowess and outgoing friendliness made him a well-known figure in their freshman-year section of keough, junior dayton Flannery said. 
“if you wanted to call yourself the best FiFa player in the sec­tion, you had to go through dan kim first,” Flannery said. 
Though the majority of their interactions were “lighthearted,” kim showed a particular interest in philosophy, even trying to take majors-only classes, grima said. 
Junior will Fields, who met kim through mutual friends in keough, said kim’s sense of hu­mor stands out in his memory. 
“he was just a really funny dude,” Fields said. “when we hung out, he was always funny. … all around, just a great guy. and he was brilliant. always really smart. all-around great.” 
mccormick, kim’s former rec­tor in keough, said he noted his resident’s confidence and genu­ine friendliness, particularly with his second-floor section mates, who were “always around the hall.” 
“daniel was a young man that had good friends,” mccormick said. “not only that, but they gen­uinely cared about him. and he was loyal to them.” 
mccormick said kim im­pressed him in conversations with his openness, humility and authenticity. 
“what i always appreciated about daniel is whenever we would have a conversation, he would be willing to own up to his own shortcomings and frail­ties, and i always genuinely ap­preciated that,” mccormick said. “sometimes people are not as willing to own up to what their shortcomings were and what they needed to work on.” 
“he had a real sense of who he is, and he owned that,” mccormick said. 
‘A true competitor’ 
kim joined the fencing team in fall 2012, his freshman year at notre dame, after growing up with the sport in upper saddle river, new Jersey, freshman fenc­er claudia kulmacz said. kulmacz is also from upper saddle river. 
“back in the club, he was really good,” she said. “he’d always kick butt, always give us a run for our money. i used to travel to world cups with him, and he was great. he was a true competitor.” 
news of kim’s death reached the team Friday afternoon, just before the decicco duals were held saturday at castellan Family Fencing center, fencing coach gia kvaratskhelia said after the match. 
“i think [the team members] were devastated, and they were crushed,” he said. “all their emo­tions were flowing. … The reaction was to rally around each other and truly give a tribute to someone we really loved. That was in the backs of our minds today and was truly difficult.” 
kulmacz said the team “fenced for dan” on saturday. 
“it was a tough day, but you got to do what you got to do,” she said. 
Freshman fencer paul cepak, who trained at the same fencing club in new Jersey as kim and kulmacz, said he traveled to latvia over one summer break with kim, whom he called “a real­ly genuine guy.” he said members of the team stood in a circle to offer prayers and share memories at the grotto on Friday, and though they “came to terms,” the loss weighed on the team during saturday’s competition. 

“i guess a lot of people … kind of had dan in their heart,” cepak said. “Today, i had a little trouble fencing just thinking about all the things going on, but i think dan would like to see people move on, do great things and move on from what happened and try to live out part of his life through working hard and making friends and all kinds of different stuff.” 
kim, a native of upper saddle river, new Jersey, blazed the trail for cepak by coming to notre dame as a fencer, cepak said. 
“i guess i followed in his shad­ow,” he said. “[kim] wasn’t exactly expecting to get in, and neither was i, and we both got in. so it’s kind of hard, but definitely one of the reasons i came here was to be with my friend.” 
‘Dealing with other demons’ 
kim struggled emotionally at notre dame, making friends but also at times keeping his distance from dorm mates, according to keough residents. 
“he was a very good kid,” grima said. “most people only saw the troubled side of him, but he was a very good thoughtful person un­derneath it. 
“he really was a kind, thought­ful person,” grima said. “i know i’m using pretty clichéd words, but he really was both of them. The trouble was that he was deal­ing with other demons. and most people only saw that because he wasn’t going outside in the sec­tion lounge talking about philoso­phy with most people. That’s not something you typically do.” 
“i would say overall, he was troubled, and that took up a large portion of his life, but it wasn’t ma­licious trouble,” grima said. “he never took it out on other people, ever.” 
kim’s parents asked “for con­tinuing prayers for strength in this time,” mccormick said. 
“it means a lot to them that we’re going to celebrate this mass,” mccormick said. “… at this point, celebrate him. celebrate who he was at his core.” 
Associate Sports Editor Greg Hadley and Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski contributed to this report. 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at lsteven1@nd.edu 
requesting service animals must accommodation request, regard-
Dog 
say why they need one, though less of what it is, is we would want 
conTinued From page 1 

they do not need proof of the ani-to look at all the variables, look at mal’s training. he said the pro-the case on an individual basis to must provide documentation cess varies from person to person. make the best decision,” he said. of their disability, and students “The key factor to any sort of “we would never automatically 
paid adverTisemenT 


think that a similar request is the same as the first.” 
chaleff said she worked with notre dame’s disability services to make sure her professors, notre dame Food services and office of housing were aware of and accommodating of Fred. 
chaleff and disability services also worked with lawyers. howland said students with ser­vice dogs, as with any disability, are protected by the americans with disabilities act, section 504 of the rehabilitation act, which prohibits discrimination based on disability and the Fair housing act, which prohibits denial of housing because of disability. 
service dogs for mental illness are trickier, howland said, be­cause there is less of a precedent on how to accommodate them. 
“The whole issue of service ani­mals and emotional support ani­mals is still somewhat of a new topic on college campuses,” he said. “There’s been recent court cases regarding that, so a lot of schools will look to those court cases — how this issue was re­solved between this individual and this college — and use that as a way to guide their own poli­cies or their own procedures.” 
now, with only a few location exceptions, chaleff said Fred can go anywhere she does. off campus, she said employees will sometimes be reluctant to let her and Fred into businesses be­cause they don’t believe Fred is a service dog, or people will make assumptions about why Fred is there — such as that chaleff is blind. 
on campus, chaleff said peo­ple take Fred in stride. 
“The first few months, a bunch of people ran up to him, but now he’s just out there," she said. 
in class, chaleff said Fred nor­mally sleeps on a blanket next to her desk. he has also quickly be­come acclimated to her friends, especially on the ultimate Frisbee team, she said. 
since she has only had Fred for a few months, chaleff said he still has improvements to make. 
“his service stuff, he knows how to do," she said. "he knows how to detect panic attacks and depression, and he can detect that in other people, not just me. [but] he doesn’t know 'sit.' he walks into things a lot. he gets himself entangled around tables. it’s great.” 
since getting Fred, chaleff said her life has improved dramatically. 
“i don’t have to skip as many classes; i can go out more and do things,” she said. “i have these periods where i feel like i can’t eat physically, and he won’t eat while i’m doing that. and i feel guilty, so i go to the dining hall, which annoys me, but it does what it’s supposed to do.” 
chaleff said she hopes to raise awareness of the possibility of service dogs for mental illness. in december, she started a blog about her experiences with Fred, and in January, she and Fred were featured on the i am notre dame blog. 
“i’m hoping that other people do try out service dogs because i’ve heard a lot of great things about them, and me having him for a few months has helped a lot,” she said. “it’s a responsibil­ity, obviously, but it’s definitely worth the trade-off.” 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Recipes for getting by 

INSIDE COLUMN 

our paths are parallel 
Andrea Vale 
news writer 

There are countless jokes and witty observations about people on planes. why is it that when you put humans together on a plane it becomes a pres­sure cooker for witnessing bare hu­man character? 
as i sit and feel the knees of the kid behind me nudging into my back, i watch the people surrounding me. people-watching is a habit of mine — airplanes, airports and crowded sub­ways are some of the most interesting places in the world to me. 
one could say that those places are interesting because of the vast diver­sity of humanity they contain, but it would be both conceited and com­pletely inaccurate of me to pretend i can look upon strangers and recog­nize that the room holds an astound­ing, awe-inspiring archive of histories, experiences, fears and motivations. 
The truth is, being in a crowd of strangers teaches me more about my­self and the way i see the world than it does about the people i’m observing. 
when i look at people on a plane, i see them as one-dimensional stereo­types — the disgruntled business­man, the overeager tourist or the tired mother with her child. but i would never see myself as a bored, listless teenager or whatever stereotype on­lookers might pin to me. i perceive others as something condescendingly lower than me. i am aware of my own emotions and experiences yet cannot perceive that in others and see them as depthless. 
my conclusionto this is that life is a constant monologue playing inside of our heads. we see the world through the lens of our own egocentrism and dehumanize everyone but ourselves. everything we experience belongs to the narrative of our own continuous story. 
it’s an idea i’ve struggled to grasp 
— to everyone else i’m the depthless one. The people on the train don’t automatically understand that i’m slumped over and tired because i spent all last night studying because i’m desperate to get a certain gpa and a certain internship and that that internship is  important because to be a writer is all i’ve ever wanted. all they see is another blasé teenage girl who couldn’t care less — when i couldn’t care more. 
as humans, we are only ever aware of ourselves. we walk through our days, crossing paths with hundreds of others. yet our paths are parallel.  it’s only when i remain conscious of the human in every stranger on the street that i’ll be able to make our parallel paths cross. 
Contact Andrea Vale at       Andrea.L.Vale.3@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Paige Affinito 
recipes for getting by 

recipes for getting by: one bad day, several hours of negative energy, 12 to 14 songs that make you cringe, at least one nickelback song,i’ve always been amazed by music’s ability to set a mood and how the lyrics and melodies of different tunes can capture memories and moments. each track is like a little pandora’s box, capable of releasing the feelings of a past moment in time upon being played. music and life events are so easily intertwined, and this works to our advantage … for the most part. listening to the country station, for example, has the power to take us back to long drives on warm summer nights or even the bleakest of south bend winter days. Freshman year throwback playlists are only completed when filled with tracks that re­store the sentiments of getting ready for the weekend to be spent with dorm mates we barely knew and fol­lowing the sound of music through hallways that sig­naled where our first dorm parties would be found. 
Just as individual tunes can renew the bliss of a certain point in time, they can also awaken the emo­tions of occasions that were not so great. i can’t listen to any song off one direction’s “midnight memories” album anymore because that’s all i listened to during finals week two semesters ago. even a few seconds of “story of my life” and i involuntarily start doing ac­counting cash flows in my head — no fun. i totally understand when people ask for a song to be changed because the one playing is tainted with negative emo­tion or a sad memory. 
despite multiple attempts to bend the natural course of time, time-traveling machines still remain a hi-tech fantasy. and, while pictures and videos are perhaps our best tool for freezing moments and capturing memories, i think that music can be uti­lized in a similar way. i’ve started to use music as capsules for holding both the good and the bad. For instance, after getting back a good exam grade, i pick a really upbeat, feel-good track to play as i savor the success of the moment. Then, the next time i walk into an exam, i play the exact same song, and with it comes a rush of relief and confidence, as it reminds me of the potential for success. in moments when i feel particularly motivated, i listen to songs that help me hold onto that energy. These are the tunes i set as my morning alarms or as workout music, as they revi­talize and release that energy when it’s needed most. 
it’s quite unfortunate how easily a great song can be spoiled by a sucky moment. i used to listen to my favorite music on my worst days in attempts to cheer myself up. although this works, somehow my most cherished tracks are never the same after i do this, and i am always reminded of how mad, sad or frus­trated i was in those moments. hence, i’ve stopped playing good music when i’m not in a good mood and have instead started selecting the worst songs i can find..  
i  recommend keeping a playlist on your phone or computer, iTunes or spotify, doesn’t matter, and title it “These songs suck.” my playlist currently consists of a lot of nickelback and drake bell’s newest album. it’s super convenient. if ever you think, “god, this mo­ment really sucks right now,” start playing your newly created, moment-appropriate playlist, for it will serve as a disposable capsule for all that negative energy. 
Paige Affinito is Junior Accounting and English major. This is her first semester as a viewpoint columnist and has found humor is actually much easier to capture in 140 characters than 700 words. She can be reached at paf­finit@nd.edu 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

siegfried hall’s day of man 
dearest notre dame and saint mary’s community, 
do you like your men of notre dame in “fresh­man-girl-at-Feve” levels of clothing? good. how about abdominals so well-defined you could find them in a dictionary? great. and most importantly, do you like fighting homelessness? still with us? perfect. if you said yes to all three — and let’s be honest, who didn’t? Then do we have an event for you. 
This week, the strapping and, in many cases, sin­gle lads of siegfried hall will once again brave the cold to stand in solidarity with our homeless broth­ers and sisters. wearing at most a T-shirt and shorts 
— and preferably less — the ramblers of siegfried will be roaming campus, classrooms and dining halls all day seeking donations for the south bend center for the homeless. 
homelessness is a societal disease that impacts hundreds of thousands of americans every year, disproportionately affecting veterans and caus­ing irreparable damage to the futures of children. as south bend is enveloped in bone-chilling cold, the dangers posed by homelessness become lethal. since its inception nine years ago, siegfried hall’s day of man has raised tens of thousands of dol­lars to support and aid the homeless community in south bend. This year, we once again need your help. 
and so, notre dame, we invite you to stand with us and support the cause as we freeze for a day in hope that the homeless will no longer. every dol­lar and coin makes a difference. every little bit can help. so don’t pull a “pete carroll” and pass up this opportunity — just hand off the cash this day of man as we combat homelessness and its countless 
effects upon society. we might even make you a snow angel. peace, love, pdub, Thomas ridella senior matt miklavic senior alex campbell junior siegfried hall Feb. 8 
The Arts and Letters major’s lament 
a musician wakes from a horrid nightmare. in his dream, he finds himself in a society where music edu­cation is mandatory. professors and university presi­dents all maintain that the push for musical education is in an effort to make “students more competitive in an increasingly rhythmic world. universities must ca­ter students toward employment, and music is quickly becoming the most lucrative industry.” because musi­cians place their ideas in the form of printed scores, college students are taught the language of music. To meet the demand for musically centered universities, primary schools must teach only the cadence of mu­sic, the acceleration of tempo and the harmonization of chords. accelerando, basso continuo and calando replace the abcs, and eventually, the intrinsic and diversified value of higher education is lost only to be replaced by normalized musical education. 
waking up in a cold sweat, the musician realizes, fortunately, that this dream is absurd. “no higher education system would reduce the complexities and diversities of education into a single form. no univer­sity would cater to a single profession and ask all other majors to integrate within.” 
an arts and letters major wakes from a similar dream, puts on business formal attire and heads to the career Fair. 
although melodramatic, the musician’s nightmare is one that many arts and letters students face. as many of us approach graduation, a trend is becoming increasingly apparent; college employment recruit­ment highly favors business majors. no better example of this is the winter career Fair. before i continue, i must thank The notre dame career center for hosting such events. career fairs serve an important function, connecting notre dame students to the world of em­ployment. however, many students like me view the career Fair in a drastically different light. i understand the usefulness of the career Fair for some students, but for many students, arts and letters in particular, the career Fair is a daunting reminder of the chal­lenges we must face in the employment search. we must rely on non-university means to seek employ­ment, or embrace the business application of our arts and letters degrees. yes, as a community, we should all be proud of the academic merit of our high-ranking business programs, and yes, the career center does wonders in placing business students in america’s top firms. yet, our emphasis on business becomes an issue when many students, outside the school of business, are too disheartened to attend the career Fair. we do not attend because we know an unspoken reality; there is little opportunity for us there. 
The division of opportunity exemplified by the career Fair is not reflective of the current job market. although business employment is high, so is employ­ment in other fields. as the american economy con­tinues to rebound from the 2008 recession, more and more industries are seeking college graduates from high-ranking universities. non-profit organizations, think tanks, technology firms, pharmaceutical com­panies, service organizations and many other poten­tial employment opportunities are on the job market. yet, the career Fair appears to be one-dimensional. The unfortunate effect of this one dimensionality is that many students are forced to use non-university methods to search for employment. realistically, many students may not know how, therefore limiting the search for employment to the results of a google search. 
career fairs are helpful and important, but i want this necessary aid to be available and useful to all students. we as a university need to show that careers are not limited to the business industry. we should show that it is indeed possible for an arts and letters student to have a career, be it through graduate school, post-graduate service or the panoply of industries looking for the talented, creative, articulate and well-educated individuals that this university cultivates. 
micah burbanks-ivey 
senior 
off campus 
Feb. 6 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

what does it take to truly know another person? at what point can you positively say that you fully under­stand someone else, even someone you are as close to as a spouse or partner? when we unconsciously lie to ourselves just as much as we do to others, how are we to accurately and intimately know someone outside of ourselves? and with others, the limiting constraints of speech on communication transforming thought to word only add to the difficulty of the matter. so, in these imperfect, less-than-ideal circumstances, how do we prevail or even cope? charlie mcdowell’s 2014 directorial debut full-length film “The one i love” explores these perhaps unanswerable questions in its claustrophobic take on a couple dealing with a crum­bling marriage. 
ethan and sophie (mark duplass and elisabeth moss) have reached a trough in their marriage. Through an early, loose montage of marriage therapy sessions, the two detail their issues with one other and the changing, rocky state of their relationship. mcdowell dedicates the screen in each shot solely to the speaker, indicating the divide that has come about between the two. sophie wants ethan to apologize for something and be able to explain himself, while ethan wants sophie to move on and see him how she used 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

rising with the momentum that only jazz-influ­enced, Thc-driven and lyrically conscious artists can gather, alabama-born, chicago-raised slam-po­et-turned-rapper mick Jenkins started his 2015 tour in support of last year’s mixtape “The water[s]” by playing at legends of notre dame restaurant and night club (you may know it for hip-hop night). although posits in conversation about mcs i’ve seen play at legends are usually met with topical, caricatured retorts of “cool! i remember him! i saw ying yang Twins in kansas city last summer!” or the more social “no way, that’s hilarious,” last weekend legends actually booked someone good. 
starting his show with no introduction, the up­and-coming artist started his show to a crowd of about 40 with all the movement, engagement with the crowd and commitment to his words neces­sary to sell a new image. in addition to being an 
SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 

to. in a last-ditch effort, their therapist (Ted danson) suggests the couple spend a weekend retreat at a beau­tiful, secluded estate that he assures always works to save his couples’ relationships. 
The retreat is small and away from any other neigh­boring houses. yet through some deft camera work and confounding tracking shots between the main house and a smaller guesthouse located on the estate, mcdowell creates a disorienting labyrinth out of the property, one in which the viewer cannot quite pin­point the layout of each area, or where each of the first few scenes there take place. The couple’s first night is a relaxed, loving one — a playful dinner is followed by marijuana and sex — if at the same time dizzying and unsettling. 
The next morning, the aforementioned guesthouse becomes the focal point for the rest of the movie. when either ethan or sophie enters the estate’s accompany­ing cottage, they encounter a slightly different version of their partner. ethan says exactly what sophie wants to hear and is the fun-loving, free spirited man with whom she originally fell in love. meanwhile, sophie is forgiving and lets ethan eat bacon despite her hatred for when he does. They are almost younger versions of themselves, who they were at the beginning of their relationship before years of patience and life took their toll on them. alternatively, they feel like each other’s ideal conception of the other, continuously exhibiting 
excellent performer, mick Jenkins kept himself in tune with his still-rising fame; he told the crowd, “if you don’t know the words [to these songs], just bounce.” impressing fans and spectators by tour­ing not only with a dJ (“dJ greenslime”) but with an eleven-piece drum kit, mick Jenkins worked hard to connect with the crowd and provide an enthralling live experience. 
he didn’t undersell his work, and he didn’t under­sell the christian themes or personal and relevant content on “The water[s].” he took time to explain the meaning behind his cohesive symbolism: “who knows what the waters is?” and although anyone who’s given the tape a listen can immediately un­derstand the feeling behind the tape, no one can ar­ticulate it like the artist: “There was a time in my life where i faced a lot of things that helped me grow as a man. … [i gained] a lot of wisdom. … my manifesta­tion for that is drinking.” 
Free from a reputation of a rapper who has reached his peak, mick Jenkins stands on nothing but the all of his or her best qualities — in the other’s eye — and never making any mistakes. 
still, something is off. The couple’s interactions with each other in the guesthouse are positive, but slightly unnatural. ethan doesn’t wear his glasses, and sophie is always smiling. The setting becomes unnerving as mcdowell relegates much of the action to the cottage’s tight space, while blurring the edges of the screen. his subtly surreal cinematography continues in his employment of a bright, easy color palette, creating a stepford wives-esque eeriness to the pleasantries. 
The climax and conclusion of the film offer a com­plex, weighted take on all the difficulties and prob­lems within a committed relationship. each time i have watched the film, the final beat — an extended shot heavy with a devastating realization — has left me withs chills for the entire credit roll. as much as it tries to answer questions about love and commit­ment, the end posits just as many, if not more, new questions.how do we choose who we want to spend the rest of our life with, when our conception of that other person is the closest we can get to the truth? Trust, compromise and unselfishness are imperative, but where do they rank among a partner’s nearness to their ideal conception and the loftiness of that con­ception altogether? 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
honesty of his words, and this freedom helps him on stage. he works as an artist should – he works hard to create an organic live experience and to connect with his fans, not just recreate recordings. and fans came to connect. although the crowd was small (and although no crowd member knew what poutine was), mick’s mic checks to the crowd were met with enthusiasm. everyone came with a favorite song, and mick played ‘em all. 
“it’s good to spend time in the waters,” Jenkins relates as he sings in reaction to materialism in hip hop, greed and envy he sees in the world. loath to be titled, generalized, or boxed in with “conscious” rappers, mick Jenkins seeks to probe a new direc­tion of what i guess we’ll call “self-aware rapping.” Frothing with energy and shining with individual­ity, mick Jenkins’s style and ideals stand to give as much to his career as they give to his ability as a performer. 
Contact Thom Behrens at tbehren1@nd.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALLIE TOLLAKSEN 
scene editor 

when “broad city” premiered on comedy central in January of last year, its creators, comedians ilana glazer and abbi Jacobson, immediately started making a stir. The show, which started out as a cult-hit web series, gained an enormous amount of popularity throughout its first season while being lauded by critics. 
The show follows the lives of the conveniently named abbi and ilana, two stoner best friends running amuck in new york city. and while almost any clause about women trying to make it in the big apple tends to sound trite, “broad city” is anything but. The two best friends (both abbi and ilana the writers and abbi and ilana the characters) defy any cliché or categorization, which is part of the reason “broad city” has been so successful. 
now with its second season underway and already renewed for a third, the show hasn’t hit anything close to a sophomore slump. rather, “broad city” has flour­ished in its second season, pulling no punches with the kind of groundbreaking comedy that put the show on the map. 
season two kicked off on Jan. 14 with a look at the two broads wasting no time in getting back into the swing of things. The premiere jumped into abbi and ilana’s search for an air conditioner during a heat wave in a picaresque adventure through the city (some­thing glazer and Jacobson have mastered beautifully). almost immediately, the episode jumps into the topic of sexual assault as ilana spews a confusing and over­confident speech about rape culture at a dinner, while abbi is confronted with the idea she may be an “acci­dental” rapist. 
The topic was heavy (and got some negative feedback from viewers), but the episode was still as ridiculous and hilarious as ever. it also showed that, though the first season of “broad city” proved glazer and Jacobsen had mastered the “workaholics”- like, fairly self-con­tained stoner comedy, the show’s second season wasn’t afraid of taking on a larger context. 
what’s beautiful about the episode is the two women don’t offer answers to the questions raised about widely discussed and serious issues like rape culture. instead, they hysterically capture what it’s like to live in a world where these issues exist. ilana comes off as impas­sioned but incoherent about rape culture, and abbi’s storyline raises questions about gender dynamics in the rape culture debate. The result may seem insensi­tive, but actually serves as an interesting way to exam­ine how we talk about the issue — or whether we know how to talk about it at all. 
This is the strength of “broad city” — it manages to be smart and insightful while also being stupid and side-splitting. best of all, when the show does make a statement, it’s not by discussing social problems but by actively defying expectations. 
Take, for example, the portrayal of female friendships and sexuality. when so many shows portray likeable­but-nerdy women who are afraid of sex (“new girl,” “30 rock”), best friends who fight, judge and undermine each other (“2 broke girls,” “girls”) and women who either are in clear-cut relationships or floundering in the dating world (every show ever), “broad city” takes a radically different approach. abbi and ilana are uncon­ditionally accepting and supporting friends. They’re also awkward, clueless women who still successfully and unapologetically get laid. 
“broad city” then is a refreshingly sex-positive show that proves women can be sexual without facing judg­ment, women can be friends without being frenemies and that all this can happen without sacrificing any laughs. This theme runs throughout the show’s first season into its second. For example, there is a running theme that ilana, who is in a healthy open relationship and very pansexual, wants to hook up with abbi. abbi consistently smiles and declines, and the two simply move on in the conversation, showing the beauty of their acceptance of each other. 
The sex positivity and supportive friendship hit an all-time high in the show’s most recent episode, “knockoffs.” when abbi’s fling with her long-time crush leads her into uncharted sexual territory, ilana unflinchingly eggs her on and is outrageously excited on abbi’s behalf. The episode is wrought with funny insight into gender and sexuality in the modern world but is executed in a way that is lighthearted, absurd and totally amusing, and the episode has been praised for being the show’s best ever. 
“broad city” isn’t even halfway through season two, but the show is already breaking ground and gaining fans. Jacobson and glazer relentlessly innovate with their unapologetic humor and affirming friendship, so listen their mantra and say “yas” to “broad city.” 
Contact Allie at atollaks@nd.edu 

SARA SHOEMAKE | The Observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Top picks for worst teams 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 
now that the 2014-2015 nFl season is over, we have the next most exciting event aside from the super bowl to look forward to: the nFl draft. 
every year, we watch each nFl franchise select the best college athletes in the coun­try, hoping the newest class of rookies can either be the missing link to a super bowl-caliber roster or the start of the rebuilding of an orga­nization in the dumps. This year, we have a pretty solid group of talented prospects led by names like Jameis winston, marcus mariota, leonard williams, andrus peat and amari cooper. 

The best part about experi­encing the draft is predicting where each prospect will go, so i’m going to play the role of the general manager of each team with the top five draft picks and select who i think would fit best on each team. 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers: Marcus Mariota,  QB, Oregon 
i have already seen tons of mock drafts take Jameis winston with the first pick, but i strongly advise the bucs to avoid that path of misery and choose mariota as the new face of the franchise. although winston may have the prototypical size and mo­bility of an nFl quarterback, maturity is something that means a lot to me as a general manager, especially if it’s at the quarterback position. last season, Johnny manziel was the talk of the draft after falling to the browns late in the first round, and we all know how that turned out. mariota may not be pro-ready, but he has the arm strength, mobility and game-changing skills to thrive in most nFl offenses. 
Tennessee Titans: Brandon Scherff, OL, Iowa 
espn reporter chris mortensen has already re­ported that the Titans plan to go all in with second-year quarterback  Zach mettenberger, so i don’t think they’ll waste this pick with Jameis winston. instead, i think they’ll go with an of­fensive tackle since they just let go of michael oher. scherff was a highly rated prospect at the beginning of the college football season by espn, and he finished the year as the outland Trophy winner as the country’s best lineman. 
some say he can play inside at guard or outside at tackle, so that versatility can push the Titans to make a move for another lineman in free agency to further protect mettenberger next season. 
Jacksonville Jaguars: Randy Gregory, DE, Nebraska 
The Jaguars just can’t seem to get out of the top 10. with another high pick in this year’s draft, the Jaguars would be smart to address the defense. The linebacking corps isn’t terrible, but the defensive line needs a ton of work. red bryant and Tyson alualu combined for just three sacks at the left defen­sive end position. gregory is one of the quickest and most athletic pass rushers, so it makes sense to pick him here. 
Oakland Raiders: Amari Cooper, WR, Alabama 
despite leonard williams’ desire to play in oakland, cooper has to be the guy for the raiders here. The biletnikoff award winner displayed ridiculous athleti­cism throughout the season and proved he has the neces­sary intangibles to be a spe­cial receiver in the nFl. The raiders don’t have a single offensive star, and with derek carr heading into his second year as the starting quarter­back, he needs a weapon to rely on. The raiders really can’t pass on cooper here. 
Washington Redskins: Jameis Winston, QB, Florida State 
most mock drafts have the redskins picking a pass rusher, but none of those mock drafts have winston still available by the time the fifth pick rolls around. robert griffin iii isn’t the answer, and kirk cousins is more of a backup. winston is the quar­terback the redskins need. he’s not someone flashy like griffin, but winston is some­one who can move around the pocket and not resort to running the ball every time there is a broken play. winston is talented, and for the redskins, who are on the edge of moving into playoff contention in a talented nFc east division, you need to have a win-now mentality and choose talent over char­acter issues. 
Contact Manny De Jesus mdejesus@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND SOFTBALL | so cal collegiaTe classic 
notre dame takes four of five to open season 
Observer Staff Report 

no. 22 notre dame opened up its 2015 season this weekend by winning four of five games at the annual so cal collegiate classic in los angeles and Fullerton, california. 
The irish began the weekend with a pair of victories Friday at easton stadium in los angeles, beating utah, 3-1, followed by a win over no. 7 ucla, 8-4. 
in the first matchup, irish ju­nior pitcher allie rhodes pitched a complete game, giving up only four hits and one earned run. The win marked irish coach deanna gumpf’s 550th victory of her 14­year career at notre dame. 
later that evening, the irish upset no. 7 ucla, 8-4, thanks to a six-run rally in the top of the seventh inning, which give the irish a four-run lead. senior cen­ter fielder emilee koerner and sophomore designated player kimmy sullivan each recorded two rbis, and senior catcher cassidy whidden went 3-for-3 on the night. 
sophomore pitcher rachel nasland started for the irish, pitching five-and-two-thirds in­nings, giving up only five hits and striking out seven bruins batters. Freshman katie beriont earned the victory for the irish, notching the final four outs for the team while giving up just one hit. 
on saturday, the irish made the roughly 40-mile drive to anderson Family Field in Fullerton, california, where they opened the afternoon with an 8-5 victory over northwestern state. 
Junior designated player carly piccinich went 3-for-3 on the afternoon, and senior third baseman katey haus recorded five rbis on three hits for notre dame. Freshman pitcher sara white picked up the victory for the irish, giving up three hits and one walk while striking out three in her first win of the season. 
The irish lost a close matchup to cal state Fullerton later that evening, giving up two runs in the seventh inning to lose 8-7 to the Titans. 
cal state Fullerton freshman shortstop shianne brannan singled in the game-tying run in the seventh, and sophomore outfielder gabrielle rodas drew the game-winning walk for the Titans. notre dame junior pitch­er allie rhodes was tagged with the loss on the evening, giving up three earned runs, including two in the last inning. 
notre dame took its second matchup against the Titans on sunday, with a 7-2 win in six in­nings to mark its fourth victory of the weekend. The irish outhit the Titans, 13-5, on the day, with irish senior third baseman katey haus notching three base hits on the afternoon. 

sophomore left fielder karley wester, junior right fielder casey africano and junior first base­man micaela arizmendi each recorded a pair of hits during the contest. arizmendi also hit her first home run of the season, a two-run dinger in the third in­ning that put the irish on top, 3-0. 
nasland made her third ap­pearance of the weekend, earn­ing the victory for the irish. nasland gave up only one hit with four strikeouts in three-and­two-thirds innings pitched. 
notre dame returns to the diamond for four games in baton rouge, louisiana, at next week­end’s Tiger invitational. 

NHL | blackhawks 4, blues 2 
Hossa nets go-ahead goal for Blackhawks win 
Associated Press 

sT. louis — marian hossa’s power-play goal broke a third-period tie and he clinched it with an empty-netter for the chicago blackhawks in a 4-2 victory over the st. louis blues on sunday. 
bryan bickell had a goal and assisted on the go-ahead tally for chicago, which also got a goal from marcus kruger. 
vladimir Tarasenko and david backes had a goal apiece for st. louis, which never led and has lost two straight since a franchise-record 13-game point streak. They’re 20-5-2 at home. 
standing room attendance of 19,657 was the blues’ 11th sellout and included thousands of red-clad blackhawks fans. 
hossa’s 11th and 12th goals were his first points in six games. Jay bouwmeester was off for hooking when hossa whistled a one-timer past brian elliott at 
11:19 for a 3-2 lead. 
Tarasenko tied it at 2 on a breakaway early in the second, getting corey crawford to com­mit with a couple of forehand fakes and then slipping the puck into the net for his team-leading 28th goal and fourth in five games. 
The blackhawks briefly re­gained the lead when bickell pounced on a rebound in the slot and beat elliott at 11:25 of the second but the blues answered 
1:28 later when backes scored his 18th goal on a rebound while crawford was occupied by a fall­en T.J. oshie in the crease. 
kruger’s fifth goal on a 2-on-1 break opened the scoring at 4:38 of the first. it was his first point in 20 games and first goal in 28 games since dec. 3 against the blues at home. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


FENCING | decicco duals NBA | Thunder 131, clippers 108 
Irish complete successful weekend at home 
By CHRISTINE MAYUGA 
sports writer 
notre dame dominated the annual decicco duals, with the men’s and women’s teams go­ing undefeated over the course of the two-day meet at castellan Family Fencing center despite missing several fencers due to international competitions. 
“it’s actually a plus [that we competed] without the leaders and standout players because everyone picked up the slack and did the job,” irish coach gia kvaratskhelia said. “it definitely speaks to our preparation.” 
The irish kicked off the first day with a slew of wins, top­ping cleveland state, 23-4 on the men’s side and 26-1 on the women’s side; wayne state, 23-4 on the men’s side and 25-2 on the women’s side; lawrence, 21-6 on the men’s side and 25-2 on the women’s side; and detroit, 24-3 and 26-1 on the men’s and wom­en’s sides, respectively. 
after the first two rounds, the irish seniors — epees nicole ameli and ashley severson, foil madison Zeiss and sabre mary regan on the women’s side and foils ariel desmet, alan markow and gabriel acuña, sabre bill meckling and epees dale purdy, ryan mcdonough and mark o’dea on the men’s side — were honored in their last home com­petition of the regular season. 

The irish continued their strong hold on the competition into the second day of the tour­nament. The irish beat bradley, 25-2 and 27-0; indiana, 25-2 and 27-0; wisconsin, 25-2 and 25-2; michigan state, 22-5 and 25-2; and michigan, 22-5 and 23-4 on the men’s and women’s sides, respectively. 
during the tournament, the irish competed almost nonstop, with only a single bye in the first round on the first day. 
“it’s all about keeping the fo­cus right now,” kvaratskhelia said. “[The team] has been com­peting for three straight weeks, and our performances speaks for the wear and tear of the athletes. The key is keeping the compo­sure, which we accomplished.” 
There was a moment of silence before saturday’s competition in remembrance of former irish fencer daniel kim. kim, who competed for notre dame in 2012-2013, died Friday. 
going into the champion­ship season, the women’s team boasts a 29-2 record this season while the men’s team has a 23-6 record for the regular season. 
“This competition was part of our preparation for the acc champs,” kvaratskhelia said. “after this weekend, we are get­ting to the point where we can say we are competitive for the championships.” 
The irish will start their championship season at their first-ever acc championships on Feb. 21-22, followed by an ncaa qualifier and potentially the ncaa championships in late march. 
“This is new territory for us,” kvaratskhelia said. “as coaches, we are going to do the analysis and get together to devise two weeks of special training regi­men to hopefully have the team at its best by conferences.” 
Contact Christine Mayuga at cmayuga@nd.edu 

durant leads Thunder to win 
Associated Press 
oklahoma ciTy — The los angeles clippers stumbled in their first test without blake griffin. 
The clippers announced before their game at oklahoma city on sunday that the all-star forward would be out indefinitely because of a staph infection in his right elbow. without him, the clippers fell to their most lopsided defeat of the season, a 131-108 loss to the Thunder. 
griffin will have surgery monday in los angeles and will be re-evaluated after the all-star break. 
“we’re depleted right now, but no one feels sorry for us,” coach doc rivers said. “i don’t feel sorry for us. you got to just figure it out and keep playing.” 
kevin durant scored 29 points, russell westbrook had 19 points, 11 rebounds and five assists, and rookie mitch mcgary added 19 points and 10 rebounds for the Thunder, who shot 52 percent and moved back above the .500 mark. 
mcgary, a reserve forward, had missed most of the season with left foot and leg injuries and had played in only two nba games. he provided energy with his play, then took it up a notch by flexing and beating his chest to exhort the crowd. at one point, he drew a standing ovation. 
“i’m a pretty energetic guy, so usually the crowd gets into it,” he said. “i always hear loud fans cheering when i enter the game, even when i don’t score or any­thing like that. i ended up hav­ing a good game, and all i could do was get the crowd into it even more.” 
westbrook said mcgary has put in the time to be ready between rehabbing and playing for the d-league oklahoma city blue. 
“you see how much work he put in over the past month-and­a-half, two months of recover­ing and getting himself back in,” westbrook said. “To see him get an opportunity was very exciting.” 
Jamal crawford scored 21 points and paul had 18 points and 13 assists for the clippers, who were outrebounded 54-29 without griffin. 
“They killed us, and we’ve got to be better,” rivers said. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
minutes. 
sophomore goaltender chad katunar started Friday’s game for the irish, but after allow­ing four goals in two periods, Jackson pulled him in favor of freshman cal petersen. The de­cision was the biggest of the se­ries, Jackson said. 
“[petersen’s] goaltending was probably the most important factor of the entire weekend,” Jackson said. “we’re not going anywhere unless we get that kind of goaltending. … he came in and settled the game down.” 
petersen stopped all 10 maine shots in the third period and overtime Friday, allowing the irish to get a valuable road point in a game in which Jackson said his team finished strong. 
“you’re always playing to win, but points on the road are huge, especially in February,” Jackson said. “i was really pleased that we played our best hockey in the latter stages of the game, which probably gave us some momen­tum going into saturday night.” 
midway through the first pe­riod saturday, bjork opened the scoring with his second goal of a four-point weekend four min­utes into the game before maine equalized three minutes later. 
but after that initial offensive spurt, both teams remained scoreless until notre dame’s outburst in the final minutes of the second period. 
petersen saved 33 shots saturday, including 15 in the final stanza, to give the irish the goaltending they needed to close out their second win in three games, while hinostroza completed his weekend with an empty-net goal in the final minutes. 
“coming back the next night and winning in their building 
—
 which is a really tough venue 

—
 says a lot about our guys,” Jackson said. 


The three-point weekend kept notre dame in fifth place in the hockey east standings, just one point behind providence and two behind umass lowell. 
“The positive thing is that we’re in control of our own des­tiny,” Jackson said. “we’ve got a very tough schedule coming up here, so it’s good to have that ambition … but i want us to go into the playoffs playing really good hockey. if we can mirror saturday night for the rest of the season, we give ourselves a chance to do something special in the playoffs” 
notre dame returns to ac­tion this weekend when it hosts providence on Friday and saturday. 
Contact Alex Carson at       acarson1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 






The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
beating them pretty easily the first time, you worry about the motivation, the intensity, how we’re going to come out,” mcgraw said. “i was really pleased how we came out in this game.” 
Ten minutes into the game, the irish led by 20, thanks in large part to four 3-pointers from mabrey. she finished the first half shooting 5-for-6 from downtown. 
mabrey’s outburst came on an afternoon when notre dame’s leading scorers, junior guard Jewell loyd and fresh­man forward brianna Turner, shot 5-for-15 from the field. it was only the fifth game all year in which neither has led the irish in points. 
despite loyd’s struggles shooting the ball (3-for-10), mcgraw said the acc’s lead­ing scorer made an impact in different ways. 
“she really helps with the press,” mcgraw said. “she’s re­ally good on the ball. she plays the passing lanes so well. Just her ability to get to the bas­ket … i mean, she got to the free-throw line a lot. she does so many things, so i’m really happy with her.” 
loyd, along with the rest of notre dame’s starters exclud­ing mabrey, got plenty of rest throughout the game, giving the irish bench opportunity to outscore eagles reserves, 31-7. senior guard madison cable led the way, collecting 11 points and a game-high eight rebounds. 
The irish will have even more time to rest now, as they have the entire week off from competition before they wel­come duke to purcell pavilion on Feb. 16. in the meantime, mcgraw said, they will look to add layers of complexity to their defensive game, espe­cially after allowing boston college to shoot 45.1 percent from the field. 
“yeah, [they] were a little better than i hoped,” mcgraw said. “overall, we did a pretty good job, but they’re such a hard team to defend because they move without the ball. They’re such good 3-point shooters [and] it’s kind of a four-out motion, so we have some of our bigs defending on the perimeter. They did a re­ally good job.” 
The extra week of rest will also help the irish stay fresh mentally as they make their way through February and towards the postseason, mcgraw said. 
“February is a real grind,” mcgraw said. “The season is long, so it’s kind of nice to have a week off. we can work on a lot of new things … to move forward on both ends but primarily on the offensive side. we have so many things we’re working on, so it’s nice to focus on ourselves and not an opponent.” 
notre dame has a week off but returns Feb. 16 to play duke at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 



M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 

bunch, and that has to be one of their best outings,” brey said. 
okafor tallied a double-double, scoring 20 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. as a team, the blue devils made 
60.8 percent of their field goals while holding one of the most efficient offenses in the nation to under 39.7 percent shooting. 
in addition to allowing nine 3-pointers, the irish allowed the blue devils to outscore them, 42-26, in the paint, the second most points in the paint scored by an acc team this season. 
“They got to our lane too easily,” brey said. “after we go up six to nothing, they started driving, and that re­ally hurt us. our defense let us down today.” 
along with allowing a sea­son-high 90 points, notre dame’s offense was held to just 60 points, its second low­est offensive showing on the season. 
sophomore guard demetrius Jackson and vasturia were the only irish scorers in double figures, while the top two offensive contributors on the team, grant and junior forward Zach auguste, were held to seven and zero points, respectively. 
“we’ll move on quickly,” brey said. “i would hope, and i would think — given the leaders i have and the leaders of this group — that they’ll bounce back in anoth­er tough place to play against a team that can guard us re­ally just as well. we have a big challenge at clemson.” 
despite the loss, notre dame sits in second place in the acc with a 9-3 conference record, one game behind conference-leader virginia. 
“i think this group will bounce back very quickly,” brey said. “They’ve been through a lot; they’ve been a really tight group.” 
notre dame will travel to littlejohn coliseum in clemson, south carolina, on Tuesday to take on clemson in the first of its two match-ups against the Tigers this season. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at     mdejesus@nd.edu 
Alford 
conTinued From page 16 
alford coached notre dame’s receivers. in 2012 and 2013, alford added the title of recruiting co­ordinator and tutored the run­ning backs and slot wide receivers. alford mentored the running backs in 2014. 
alford earned praise for his re­cruiting work, especially in Florida, where he helped land class of 2015 signees and sunshine state natives Te’von coney and dexter williams, among others. 
alford will replace former ohio state running backs coach and as­sistant head coach for offense stan drayton, who reached an agree­ment to become the running backs coach for the chicago bears on Thursday. 
ohio state head coach urban meyer served as the wide receiv­ers coach at colorado state in 1990, when alford was a senior running back for the rams. 
in an interview with irish illustrated, alford said his move “is a leap of faith, one i feel i need to make for my professional development.” 
“This isn’t an indictment on notre dame, [director of athletics] Jack swarbrick, [university president] Father John [Jenkins], brian kelly, nothing,” alford said to irish illustrated. “it’s something i feel i needed to do for professional growth. and i’m not saying notre dame was not helping me with that. 
“one guy that i have a ridicu­lous amount of respect for is Jack swarbrick. it’s off the charts what i think of him, and i value him, and i felt like he valued me. brian, too. hopefully that will continue.” 
notre dame is scheduled to be­gin spring practice march 2. 
Contact Mike Monaco at     jmonaco@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

ACROSS 29 Digress 62 Classic 1740 1 Part of a 32 Word appearing 
romance metaphorical more than 20 subtitled “Virtue ladder Rewarded”
times on Iran’s 4 Any of the flag 63 Contests 
Galápagos 33 Like some music 64 Kind of dye8 Color 65 To some extent 
34 ___ meteorclassification 

66 Architect quality Saarinen 
shower 

36 Muscle cramps,
14 Italian article 67 Shiny, say 
e.g.
15 “Angels From 40 Coveredthe Realms of 
DOWN

Glory,” e.g. 44 Capital on the 1 ___-eared
Gulf of Guinea 
16 Like 2 Out, in a waypsychopaths, 45 What a mayor 3 Certain jazz club

say wins, usually 

improvisation17 Cellphone 49 Engage in some 
4 Dopefeature, for short pillow talk 5 To some extent 18 Sports team 50 Orion ___ 6 48-Downmanagement 51 French word followergroup 

with a circumflex 
7 Movement20 “You missed 52 Play (with) founded by___” Yasser Arafat 22 Suffix with diet 53 What portableApple products 8 Age calculation 23 “... boy ___ at a vet clinicrungirl?” 

9 Medical grp. 

24 Language for a 54 It can be found in runes 10 ___ Swanson,37-Down “Parks and25 Some navels 56 Toggle … or a Recreation”
hint to 18-, 29-
28 California’s ___ boss

and 45-Across?
Padres National 11 13-Down athlete
Forest 60 Kitten call 12 Diacritical mark 13 See 11-Down 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 Popular corn
chip, informally 
21 Expiation 
24 Even in Paris? 
26 Mixed martial 
arts org. 
27 Lose one’s patience with,maybe 
30 Many a Brownsfan 
31 Epitome ofslowness 
35 “This may becontroversial, but …” 
37 Arthur Conan Doyle, e.g. 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  
34  35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Puzzle by Joel Fagliano 
38 “Batman” villain 45 Exotic aquarium 48 6-Down in a cryogenic specimens preceder
suit 46 Speechwriter 55 Very 
39 Cry at home,maybe who coined the 57 Small number
phrase “Read
41 “America’s my lips: no new 58 Fourth-largestfavorite active taxes” state inpro athlete,” per population: Abbr. 

a 2012 ESPN 47 Classical poll musician whose 59 N.H.L. 42 Slippery career has had 
impossibility
43 Singer Lana ___ its ups andRey downs? 61 “That’s crazy!” 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HIGHLY PUNLIKELY | chrisTopher brucker 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
Level: 


DOME NUTS | alexandria wellman 

Complete the grid so each row, column and 3-by-3 box (in bold borders) contains every digit, 1 to 9. For strategies on how to solve Sudoku, visit 
www.sudoku.org.uk 


11/12/12 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: gauge your time and incorporate patience and acceptance into whatever you do. welcome change and do your best to get along with the universe in order to open up your possibilities for the future. remember the past, but live in the future, and be open to reuniting with people you are sorry you lost touch with. your numbers are 8, 14, 24, 27, 33, 36, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t question the obvious. learn from a past mistake and be ready for whatever situations you encounter. showing your adaptability will help you be considered for a better position. get whatever is being offered in writing. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): a short trip will offer experience or disclose information about your past. Fixing up your surroundings or making a decision to update your appearance or skills will pay off. do your best and you will encounter higher returns.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): size up your situation and aim to intensify matters until you get your way. not everyone will be on your side. disillusionment must not lead you astray. get your facts straight and don’t deviate from your plans. implement physical improvements.  


CANCER (June 21-July 22): your reluctance to let anyone coerce you into excessive spending or doing something that infringes on your integrity will show your strength, courage and ability to stand tall. prepare to say “no” and do your own thing.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll be busy making all sorts of changes. get involved in events that will bring you closer to the people you care about, and distance yourself from naysayers. express your feelings and keep moving.  


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): a change in your financial situation will leave you feeling uncertain. ask questions if someone close to you has been overspending. agreeing on a set budget will help clear up future problems that can add stress to your relationship.  


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you have options and plenty of opportunities, but nothing will happen if you don’t do your best to make things happen. don’t let someone else do the work or you will reap few rewards and experience lots of regret.   

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t be too quick to offer your services to someone who is unpredictable. you may be taken advantage of if you aren’t persistent about what you want for your input and hard work. romance will bring you closer to someone special.  


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): something worthwhile will unfold if you display your intentions and plans. an interesting turn of events will bring about a positive change to your living conditions. don’t trust someone offering the impossible. be smart, ask questions and avoid regret.  


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): be secretive about your future plans. until you have everything in place, you will risk someone stealing your idea or ruining your chances for success. ignore manipulative individuals who might be looking for a way to take advantage of you. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): expand your ideas and voice your opinion. improve your skills and you’ll get the assistance required to advance. There is money to be made if you offer a service conducive to home, convenience or improvements. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): honesty begins within. make sure you are taking an honest view of a situation. self-deception will lead to disappointment. learn from past experiences and listen to good advice. anger will lead to a no-win situation and a potential loss. 

Birthday Baby: you are expressive, optimistic and intelligent. you are thoughtful and kind. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
YAMLD  

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
FIUNY  

ANUDIP BEELBP  
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 


“ 


” 
Print answer here: 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BISON MERCY ONWARD NOODLEYesterday’s 
Answer: After seeing how wrinkled his suit was,Superman would become this — IRON MAN 
-



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 
Alford leaves for OSU 
By MIKE MONACO 
sports writer 
The staff shuffle continues. 
Former irish recruiting coordi­nator and running backs coach Tony alford is leaving notre dame for ohio state, according to his Twitter account. 
irish illustrated first reported saturday morning that alford, who spent six seasons in south bend, will become the new running backs coach and assistant head coach with the buckeyes. 
Former irish defensive backs coach kerry cooks recently left the staff for a position at oklahoma. 
alford was a holdover from the staff of former irish head coach charlie weis, for whom alford served as the running backs coach in 2009. For his first two seasons un­der irish head coach brian kelly, 
see alFord PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 89, bc 56 

Mabrey leads team to victory 
Irish reserves outscore Boston College bench 31-7 in blowout 
By GREG HADLEY 
associate sports editor 
on an afternoon when most of notre dame’s start­ers were resting on the bench early in the second half, irish coach muffet mcgraw did not have a substitute for michaela mabrey. 
instead, the no. 4 irish rode the junior guard’s hot hand to an 89-56 win over boston college on the road sunday. 
mabrey, notre dame’s best shooter from long range, torched the eagles (10-13, 2-8 acc) for 36 minutes, con­necting on six of nine 3-point attempts, scoring a career-best 20 points and dishing out a game-high five assists. 
“michaela mabrey got some good work on the point,” mcgraw said. “she had a really good game — scored a career-high and did a really good job of finding the team.” 
no other irish player was on the floor for more than 25 minutes in a contest in which notre dame (23-2, 10-1) took the lead within 10 seconds on a mabrey 3-pointer and never looked back. 
“i was really, really happy with this game,” mcgraw said. “we put a couple of new wrinkles in. we’re working on some things offensively that we’re trying to perfect, and we got some great work with that against man-to­man. we worked on the press a little bit, and that was pret­ty effective. i think we really got a lot out of this game.” 
The win marked notre dame’s second victory over the eagles this year. after losing their second game of 2015 to miami, the irish returned home Jan. 11 and dominated boston college, running away with a 104-58 decision. 
“when you play somebody for a second time after 
see w bball PAGE 14 


MEN’S BASKETBALL | duke 90, nd 60 
ND struggles on the road in tough loss to Duke 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 10 notre dame left durham, north carolina, on saturday after its worst loss ever under coach mike brey, losing to no. 4 duke, 90-60. 
notre dame (21-4, 9-3 acc) defeated the blue devils (20­3, 7-3 acc) at purcell pavilion on Jan. 28, led by senior guard Jerian grant, who scored 23 points and dished out a ca-reer-high 12 assists. in its sec­ond matchup at duke, notre dame struggled to score any points against duke’s stifling defense. 
The irish have come back from large deficits to win ear­lier in the season, including an 18-point deficit against north carolina state on Jan. 
25. however, the irish didn’t get within 18 points in the second half against duke. 
“Their ball pressure ha­rassed us, bothered us and never let Jerian grant or any of us get into rhythm,” brey said. “it was one of those where you’re hanging on for dear life, and in this league, you’ve got to have a short memory.” 
The irish started the game off with two quick 3-point­ers from sophomore guard steve vasturia and senior captain and forward pat connaughton, but duke out­scored notre dame, 50-18, for the rest of the first half on 81-percent shooting. 

despite blue devils fresh­man center Jahlil okafor get­ting into foul trouble early, freshman forward Justise winslow, freshman guard Tyus Jones and sophomore guard matt Jones took over the offense and took advan­tage of notre dame’s lapses in defense. winslow finished the game with 19 points and 11 boards, Tyus Jones scored 12 points to go along with seven assists and matt Jones contributed 17 points, in­cluding three 3-pointers in the first half. 

“i’ve seen them play a 
see m bball PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | nd 4, maine 4 (oT); nd 5, maine 1 
Irish skate away with win in series 
By ALEX CARSON 
sports writer 
as the second intermission drew closer during notre dame’s game at maine on saturday night, it looked as if the teams might go into the alfond arena dressing rooms tied 1-1. 
instead, the irish (12-14-4, 7-5­4 hockey east) seized the mo­ment, scoring three times in the final two minutes of the period en route to a 5-1 victory over the black bears (10-17-3, 5-9-2) to ensure that notre dame would leave orono, maine, with three points in hand. 
irish junior left wing sam herr started the goal rush when he scored with 1:49 left in the second period off a feed from se­nior right wing austin wuthrich before goals from sophomore center vince hinostroza and freshman center/right wing Jake evans blew the game open in the 84 seconds that followed. 
“all of the sudden, you get a goal, and you get some mo­mentum and boom, boom you get two more,” irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “it gives you confi­dence when your team has that ability, especially because that’s a hard thing to do on the road.” 
notre dame’s 5-1 win saturday came on the heels of Friday’s game in which the of­fenses had most of the fun as the irish and black bears played to a 4-4 tie. 
maine sophomore forward blaine byron put the hosts ahead just 4:02 into the game, but a pair of irish freshmen soon put the visitors ahead as left wing anders bjork and de­fenseman Jordan gross scored twice in less than a minute. The goals started hinostroza’s pro­lific weekend — he assisted both of them en route to a six-point weekend — that saw him hit the 25-assist mark, third most in the nation. 
“i think he’s playing more fo­cused hockey,” Jackson said. “… The last six weeks here he’s re­ally elevated his game because he’s moving his feet and starting to play with confidence.” 

The black bears drew even through a power-play goal from junior forward will merchant a few minutes later. 
after an irish goal and pair of maine second-period goals, ju­nior left wing mario lucia bur­ied his 18th goal of the season in the period’s final minute, tying proceedings at 4-4 after 40 
see hockey PAGE 12 




