The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 49, issue 40 | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Report reviews sexual violence on campus 
Student government leaders recommend policy reforms in presentation to Board of Trustees 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
in their first of two reports to the university’s board of Trustees, student government leaders on oct. 15 presented a report on the current state of sexual violence at notre dame and how the university can further work to solve the issue. 
student body president se­nior bryan ricketts said his administration chose to look at sexual violence in part be­cause of the momentum the topic has gained both on cam­pus and around the country in recent years. 
“sexual violence is some­thing we’ve been talking 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



Saint Mary’s holds Respect Life Week 
about on our campus for a long time now,” he said. “… There’s a lot of talk about prevention and what we’re doing on front, and in addition to that it’s sort of widely accepted as a rule — but also statistically at notre dame — that the number of reported assaults does not nearly match the number of actual assaults that we have on campus. 
“Those are still issues that we’re trying to work through,” he said. “That was a big reason behind the impetus of this re­port, to give some context to where we are on campus as well as to do a little digging what we need to do better and 
see TrusTees PAGE 4 
By MATTHEW McKENNA 
news writer 
in their first year hosting a fall concert, members of the the student union board (sub) wanted to host an artist from a genre of music they feel as been underrepresented in the past: country. 
last night, sub announced the fall concert will be a perfor­mance by country star hunter hayes with an opening act from ryan lafferty. The concert will take place nov. 6 at 7 p.m. in stepan center. 
senior shadmn minir, lead concerts programmer for sub, said the organization looks for rising stars like hayes and ryan who will be appreciated by everyone in the notre dame community. 
“These two both fit the bill to the highest degree and will help throw as amazing an inaugural performance for our fall concert that we can ask for,” minir said. “They bring with them a large fan base and enough of a mix between country and pop to keep the crowd crooning along­side them throughout the entire show.” 
Junior hugo muñoz, assistant programmer for sub, said they wanted to book someone a little different for this year’s concert. 

“The spring concert [is] usu­ally an artist closer to pop music, so we wanted some variation to our repertoire,” muñoz said. 
The sub concerts committee decides on artists based on pre­vious survey and poll answers given by students about the kind of music they like and who they want to see perform, minir said. 
“we are given a budget by notre dame and have to work within those constraints,” he said. “we look at the most pop­ular people as decided by the committee and the student body and apply those opinions to cre­ating a list of artists.” 
The organization has to bal­ance choosing the best possible artist and needing to stay within the budget sub is allotted, he said. 
“usually price or scheduling can affect that process harshly, but this year we got our numero uno on our list,” minir said. “The process involves every part of the committee, from the program­mers to our dorm representa­tives, controller, publicist and designer.” 
hosting hunter hayes will be a great opportunity to make sub concerts more popular among students, muñoz said. 

“i think that hunter hayes is a extremely talented artist that will put up an enjoyable show, and that’s the most important thing, to entertain our public,” he said. 
The artist choice has always been a topic of discussion after it is announced and there is always a fantastic turnout every year for the performance, minir said. 
“artists love performing in front of raucous notre dame crowds because of our tendency to know songs better than even some of the performers, which is not surprising given the qual­ity of student that comes to this school,” minir said. “please come out in full country gear, with cowboy hats and bandanas and ripped jeans and flannel shirts … This will be an incred­ible event and we hope as many people that want to participate can.” 
Tickets for the concert go on sale today at 7 a.m. Tickets are $15 at the box office and $20 at the door. 
Contact Matthew McKenna at mmcken12@nd.edu 

By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
as part of the nationwide respect life month, saint mary’s college belles for life club is hosting respect life week with events on campus focused on celebrating life and raising awareness about the dignity of human life. 
a vigil for life will take place Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the college student center, where students can pray for the dig­nity of human life and listen to women from the silent no more awareness campaign give vol­untary post-abortive testimo­nies, belles for life president and senior Jana Zuniga said. 
“we thought this was particu­larly appropriate because we want to recognize the ways that abortion affects not only pre­born humans, but how abortion affects women,” Zuniga said, “we will pray for the protection of life … but also for women facing un­planned pregnancies and for the healing of post-abortive women as we stand in solidarity with the women who have experienced abortion.” 
Zuniga said she decided to become active in the pro-life movement after hearing the sto­ries of women who underwent abortions. 
“i think their stories are an honest reflection of how many women have been scarred and dramatically affected by their abortion experience,” she said. 
dr. Kevin mcdonnell, an emeritus professor of philosophy at the college and the edna and george mcmahon aquinas chair in philosophy emeritus, will de­liver a speech wednesday at 8 
p.m. in vander vennet Theatre, Zuniga said. 
“his recent publications con­cern issues in medical ethics and he chairs the ethics com­mittees at logan center and at memorial hospital,” Zuniga said, “we chose him because he is part of the smc community and will propose a strong argument that the legality of abortion does not justify neglecting the endowed rights of the unborn children of our society.” 
according to the respect life week flyer, there will be a life Fest costume contest and piz­za party from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Thursday in le mans hall reignbeaux lounge to celebrate 
see liFe weeK PAGE 3 






ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney                       cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green           Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: miko malabute Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 

(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite part of returning to campus? 


Kelson Pike 
freshman 
Zahm house 

“seeing all the guys again.” 



Niko Martinovic 
freshman 
Zahm house 

“being back with my section boys.” 

Kyle Miller 
freshman 
Zahm house 

“getting to see all the beautiful foliage all over campus.” 



Julia Szromba 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 

“mint chip in the dining hall.” 

Andrew Lessard 
freshman 
Zahm house 

“i’m just happy to be back with my friends from my dorm.” 



Mark Dahl 
sophomore Zahm house 
“parietals.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 


Want your event included here? 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators McDonald Center Food for Thought Mindful Meditation Labor Cafe Religion Seminar 
(574) 631-8839 
Wellness Expo Dalloway’s Clubhouse, Coleman-Morse Geddes Hall McKenna Hall North Quad Saint Mary’s College Center 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 9 a.m.-12 p.m. 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 8 a.m.-10 a.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Explore social justice Discover links between 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre Stop by for free food. Discuss education. Practice meditation. issues. religion and jazz. dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
Workshop: “Getting Guided Mindfulness Artist Lecture Women’s Soccer vs. Saturday Vigil Mass 

the right to refuse advertisements based on content. Started in Research” Meditation Riley Hall of Art and Virginia Tech Basilica of the Sacred The news is reported as accurately and objectively as administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
110 Brownson Hall Snite Museum of Art Design Alumni Stadium Heart 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7 p.m.-8:45 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, Learn research Engage in Thomas Berding will The Irish take on the Celebrate mass with letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
strategies. contemplation. discuss his exhibition. Hokies. fellow students. 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Campus Life Council promotes 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. 
safety with Green Dot program 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall 
cultural norms, gebhardt said. These council members discussed the pro­

notre dame, in 46556-0779 By MEGAN VALLEY periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer news writer are important because as the culture gram after gebhardt’s presentation, 
send address corrections to: 
changes, there shouldn’t be as great of highlighting the assets of the model. 
The observer p.o. box 779 
The campus life council (clc) a need for bystander intervention. senior chizo ekechukwu, diversity 
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 
met monday afternoon for a presen-“not only do we need to look at what council representative, said she liked 
The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
tation and discussion on the green happens at parties on Friday nights the green dot model because it did not dot program, a violence prevention and help you guys become great by-demand students to change as much in strategy that seeks to change the cul-standers, but more importantly we their daily lives. ture of communities, such as a college need to create a culture that when stu-“i think this applies directly to both campus. The clc provides a forum for dents come to our campus, they know of our subcommittees, especially alco­students, rectors and administrators violence is not okay and that everyone hol culture,” she said. “it’s a thing we 


News Sports 

catherine owers Kit loughran to discuss matters that are affecting needs to do their part to send the mes-can all do daily and over the weekend, andrea vale hunter mcdaniel 
students affairs and includes two sub-sage about our new cultural norms,” making sure we’re taking care of peo­

martha reilly rachel o’grady 
committees: diversity inclusion and she said. ple and not just saying we’re going to 
Graphics Scene 
alcohol culture. gebhardt said green dot stresses the completely fix the problem right now, 

eric richelsen miko malabute 
christine gebhardt, director of the importance of changing the culture, but thinking of changing in small ways 
Photo Viewpoint 
gender relations center (grc), offered one decision at a time, until it becomes first and things that are easier to do if 

emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 
an overview of the program to council the norm without prompts. people aren’t sure how to help.” members. she said the program pro-“The point where people do some-gebhardt said the green dot pro­motes an effective model that focuses thing because of the culture around it gram is most effective when it’s ac-
Corrections 
on the gradual change of culture. is the point called critical mass,” she cepted by a large population. 

The observer regards itself as “change does not occur with said. “we’ll know that we’ve changed “it doesn’t become one group’s ini­a professional publication and 
one huge event,” gebhardt said. our culture when 15 percent of our stu-tiative, it becomes a message of a com-strives for the highest standards 
“oftentimes, history will point back to dent body have been bystander trained munity,” she said. “no one has to do 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
a huge turning point as an event, but by green dot. when we have 15 per-everything, but everyone has to do 

however, recognize that we will make 
it can actually trace back the little rip-cent, we will have hit critical mass, something.” 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
ples that created a tidal wave to try to which indicates enough people have 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so change something.” bought into the message and are will-Contact Megan Valley at  
we can correct our error. The green dot program has two ing to live out the message.” mvalley@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | The observer 


SMC student speaks on importance of voting 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
The Justice Friday lecture oct. 16 at saint mary’s fea­tured sophomore morgan matthews, who spoke on the importance of voting as a college student. 
“with the presidential elections coming up this year and all the debates going on, i decided to talk about vot­ing because i’m really pas­sionate about it,” matthews “i was figuring out the whole [voting] process and i just thought i might as well teach others while i’m teaching myself.” 
college students should vote to use their right to speak out against any 
Life Week 
conTinued From page 1 
life. 
The week will wrap up Friday with students participating in the 40 days for life campaign with a trip to the life center in down­town south bend, Zuniga said. students are invited to meet at the student center parking lot at injustices that might be going on in the country, matthews said. There can be resistance to voting because in some states, voters have to declare their party af­filiation, which some people might find invasive. 
“it’s no reason for you to give up your power. asking for a certain party’s ballot doesn’t mean you have to stick with that party forever 
— you can change,” she said. “you deserve a choice next november and in the prima­ries, no matter what side or party you are.” 
another reason students might not vote is that they feel like their votes will not make a difference, matthews said. 
11 a.m., and the event will run until 1 p.m. 
south bend is one of 252 cities to participate in the campaign, she said. as part of the cam­paign, people unite in prayer ei­ther alone or outside an abortion clinic for 40 consecutive days in an effort to bring a peaceful end to abortion, Zuniga said. 
“This year alone, there have been 412 confirmed lives that 
“every vote does matter … if you look back to Florida in 2000 with al gore and george bush, Florida gave bush the presidency. This shows how important it is to vote.” 
matthews said students votes can shape future eco­nomic and foreign policies, the social agenda and en­vironmental issues. voting demonstrates concern for the next generation and hon­ors the past sacrifices of civil rights leaders and soldiers. 
“[college students] are part of an important voting block. statistics say there are more than 75 million millennials. The problem is college stu­dents vote in a smaller por­tion,” she said. “we should have more of a say because 
have been spared of abortion by the efforts of this campaign,” Zuniga said. “girls from the belles for life club will visit the life center, located next door to the local abortion clinic, which is a place where women can go for help if they are looking for finan­cial assistance, support, adop­tion referrals or counseling,” she said. 
student will tour the life 
paid adverTisemenT 
now [the population] is skewed towards us.” 
There are two basic ways to register to vote, matthews said. students can go online to print out and complete a national mail registration form and then send it into the local county office, or they can register to vote at most local government-run facilities. 
students should get in­formed about the candidates and issues before voting, matthews said. 
“choose a candidate to vote for based on their beliefs and viewpoints versus the par­ty they associate with,” she said. “remain open minded … do your research, don’t take the candidate’s words 
center and pray in the adora­tion chapel during the visit, she said. 
“as a students of an all­women’s college, we have a heightened awareness to the ways that women are treated in our society,” Zuniga said. “This week is about celebrating the unique and irreplaceable gift that each of us are to the world; it is about recognizing on a large scale issue if you don’t know the basis of the information. They could be spinning lies. Know all the issues that you are passion­ate about rather than taking the candidate’s words for it.“ 
matthews said she encour­aged all students to watch or look up both the republican and democrat debates com­ing up to gain a better un­
derstanding  of  what  each  
candidate  believes  and  
represents.  

Justice Friday installments take place every Friday from 12 p.m. to 12:50 p.m. in conference room a and b of the student center. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 
the inherent dignity of all hu­man life, regardless of how that life was conceived, how long it lasts or how fortunate their life is promised to be.” 
For more information, please contact belles for life club president Jana Zuniga at jzunig01@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Trustees 
conTinued From page 1 
where we’re not meeting the standards.” 
The report focused on four major topics: campus conver­sation surrounding sexual vio­lence, the trajectory of change on the issue at notre dame, al­cohol culture’s role in sexual vi­olence and a process overview, supplemented by students’ ex­periences.  it concluded with a series of recommendations to Trustees on how to curb sexual violence on campus, as well as how to improve the process of reporting and navigating the Title iX process. 
The campus conversation section included a history of sexual violence policy on cam­pus in the last 10 years as well as a more thorough look at the last year and the it’s on us cam­paign, student body chief of staff dan sehlhorst said. 
“we looked at all the major incidences, as well, that hap­pened in notre dame’s [recent] history, like the abram elam tri­al, the vagina monologues and a number of other institutional changes that have happened along the way,” he said. 
sehlhorst said the trajectory of change framework used in the report breaks down social change into three separate stages: awareness, education and action. 
“The first step, awareness, really corresponds to the one is Too many campaign and some of the earlier efforts dat­ing back over 10 years,” he said. “all of those efforts were cen­tered around the idea that this is happening — building aware­ness that this is happening, the extent to which it’s happening, making sure it’s prominent on people’s minds.” 
sehlhorst said the education stage was largely taken on by the original implementation of the it’s on us campaign last year. 
The final phase, action, has focused on bystander interven­tion, particularly in the last year with the continuation of it’s on us and the beginning of the greendot program, sehlhorst said. 
ricketts said the board asked him and student body vice pres­ident senior nidia ruelas to look into the intersection of alcohol culture and sexual violence when they met last in June. ruelas outlined a number of trends surrounding alcohol on notre dame’s campus based on information from the wellness center. 
ruelas said that, through in­terviews with campus rectors and residents’ assistants (ras), student government leaders found that student perception of drinking culture might not align with the reality. 
“in these interviews was the acknowledgement that there is this perception among students on campus that more students are drinking than they actu­ally are,” she said. “This kind of permeates this alcohol culture in which students think they have to go out and get drunk and that’s the only way to do this. and at the same time they’re putting themselves at risk, and not taking care of each other or taking care of themselves.” 
The fourth component of the report, the process over­view, examined counseling and health services for students as well as the two reporting op­tions students have available to them on campus — the Title iX process, which goes through the university conduct process, and reporting through notre dame security police (ndsp), which opens a criminal investigation. 
by speaking with more than 30 students who had been through the process and others who are familiar with it, student government identified several parts of the process students found unnecessarily difficult or inadequate. 
in the ndsp reporting pro­cess, sehlhorst said some stu­dents felt the tone of ndsp investigators came off in a way students perceived as unwel­coming. in addition, he said some saint mary’s students felt they had a more difficult time reporting at notre dame. 
ruelas said students had sim­ilar complaints about adminis­trators involved in the Title iX reporting process, and that they could at times come across as “abrupt and unconcerned.” 
The recommendations put forth by ricketts, ruelas and sehlhorst fell into four main categories: campus climate for reporting and support, campus sexual violence poli­cies, the Title iX process and accountability. 
The recommendations on cli­mate and support deal largely with cooperation with students and administration at saint mary’s. ruelas cited the issue of no-contact orders. as a part of the Title iX process, when a student files a complaint against another student, a no-contact order is put in place. The university then informs hall staff and ndsp of the no-contact order, but sehlhorst said the university does not currently inform saint mary’s staff when a no-contact order is issued involving a saint mary’s student. 
“There’s not that same level of communication on the ground, with hall staff, professors and security. … That same burden of telling administrators and rectors is not there [for notre dame students],” he said. 
The report also recommends that “staff advocates,” or re­source coordinators, be made available to students from the moment they report an incident of sexual violence, ricketts said. 
“right now when you go through the process, you’re given a resource coordinator, you can have someone with you. “… when you’re initially interviewed by ndsp, that may happen immediately follow­ing the assault. it may be at one in the morning at the hospital, they may be doing follow-ups the next day. and, if you haven’t reported to the Title iX coordi­nator, you don’t have a resource coordinator. it may just be you. 
“given the issues that students had with tone and the questions asked, we think it would be helpful to have a support person there who can help if a difficult situation comes across.” 
ruelas said they also recom­
“All of those efforts were centered around the idea that this is happening— building awareness that this is happening, the extent to which it’s happening, making sure it’s prominent on people’s minds.” 
Dan Sehlhorst 
student body chief of staff 
mended the inclusion of emo­tional violence to the dating and domestic violence policy. she said this would allow students in emotionally violent relation­ships to access the resources given to a complainant in a Title iX case, which are more extensive. 
as part of the Title iX process recommendations, student gov­ernment put forth three specific policy proposals. 
First, they recommended that complainants be al­lowed to keep the notes they take during conduct hear­ings. currently, complain­ants must leave their notes in the room and the notes are destroyed upon completion of the process — although an official record of all disciplin­ary proceedings is kept by the university. 
“The purpose of that is that if the complainant wanted to take this to a civil case outside of the university, they could do so with the notes they had taken during the proceedings on campus,” ruelas said. 
The report also recom­mends the university resolve all pending Title iX cases of students who have been dis­missed prior to their leaving campus. 
“if the same respondent is named in multiple cases, and that same respondent is tem­porarily dismissed on one of them, the process as of last year was that all the other cases would be suspended un­til that individual reapplied to the university — and who knows when that would be,” sehlhorst said. “so then you have that problem of opening all the wounds again for the complainant.” 
sehlhorst said the final rec­ommendations on account­ability focus on two specific areas. 
“There are two elements,” sehlhorst said. “we are calling for the university to publicly re­lease the 2015 [sexual assault] climate survey, including the raw data. There are 26 schools which have released their sur­veys, so this is not an unprec­edented step for universities to do this. 
“The second thing we rec­ommend is publishing aggre­gate statistics on all sexual violence. That means the num­ber of incidences of each type, the number that go into the Title iX process, the number of cases in which respondent is found responsible and the number of each type of disci­plinary outcome.” 
ricketts said his adminis­tration has been working with relevant departments on the policy changes they suggested. 
“we’ve had a good response, a positive response to this so far,” ricketts said. “if i could say anything to the students reading this, first of all you are not alone if anything in this re­port or the students’ stories has applied to you. we encourage you to come talk to us, or pub­licly if you wish, and continue this campus conversation. 
“This is one of the big rea­sons we wanted to do this, to make sure that students feel like they can talk about these issues, because we can’t pre­tend they don’t happen,” he said. “They can’t get better if we pretend that they don’t. … it’s imperative that if we have students who have been trau­matized, that we don’t let those feelings be perpetuated.” 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

NBA HIP-HOP REMIX 

ruled the NBA landscape, and though they have gone through a bit of a rebuild, their combination of a solid squad and intelligent leadership under Coach Brad Stevens makes for compelling season. 
Brookyln Nets — Jay-Z 
Let’s not get carried away now, Nets fans. Jay-Z famously launched his own streaming music venture, TIDAL, and with the overwhelming support from big-name artists, it seemed too big to fail. And yet, that’s exactly what happened. Similarly, that’s where the Nets are now. 
New York Knicks — J. Cole 
J. Cole once seemed to be unstoppable, even as a young up-and-comer. However, with the bright lights on (i.e., his debut album), he just didn’t have enough to really push him or his brand over the top. The Knicks have also had promising moments recently, but their chance at success was over before it even started. That said, with their young core (and 
promising rookie standout Jerian Grant!) the potential for a resurgence looms. 
Philadelphia 76ers — Meek Mill 
Meek Mill seemed to have a plan. Trust the process, as 76ers GM and President of Basketball Operations Sam Hinkie would say. He would come after Drake with a “beef” that would instantly go viral and be on his way to success and stardom. Well, that plan back-ÿred. Hinkie allegedly has tanked for the past few seasons now, acquiring high draft picks to assemble a young promising squad. However, his picks have been unfortunately oft-injured, and thus “trusting the process” has yet to really pan out. 


Toronto Raptors — Big Sean 
The Raptors’ recent success has been analogous to Big Sean’s career: they might seem like dark-horse contenders for the title one week and not be heard from again for two. All the while, you truly never seemed threatened by them. 


Chicago Bulls — Kanye West 
I’m not really sure if we’re being honest, Chicago fans. You know the team is good, and on paper they really should be perennial contenders for the title. However, just as Kanye has been met with mixed reception for his edgy, new style of music, the Bulls are faced with recent coaching and style changes. 
Cleveland Cavaliers — Justin Bieber 
Listen, everyone loves to hate Bieber. People nitpick and love to ÿnd every little bit to fault him for. They might even argue that he belongs nowhere near the genre “hip-hop.” But deep down, they know he’s great and is a virtual lock for success. Similarly, people will ÿnd every reason to hate LeBron James and the Cavaliers, but there is no denying their greatness. 

Detroit Pistons — Eminem 
The Pistons regained a coach with a hard-nosed, aggressive attitude in Stan Van Gundy. But that style just doesn’t work anymore in today’s NBA. Similarly, Eminem came back most recently with “The Marshall Mathers LP 2” to rediscover his old roots. It was very hit-and-miss. 

Indiana Pacers — Tyga 
The Pacers always seem to .y under the radar, even when they are doing well. But nowadays, they stink, and Paul George alone won’t save this team. Similarly, Tyga used to be part of a promising Young Money music group, but with that collective more or less done, the Southern California rapper is largely forgettable. 
Milwaukee Bucks — Fetty Wap 
The Bucks are young, interesting and ÿlled with promise, from the promis­ing leadership of Coach Jason Kidd and young nucleus. The same can be said for Fetty Wap, with his distinguishable voice, niche for catchy songs and rapidly rising stardom. 
Atlanta Hawks — 2 Chainz 
2 Chainz knows what works, and doesn’t stray from it. It makes for a consistent, if not predictable, product. The Hawks stick to a tried-and-true formula of ball movement and spacing but try little else. The analogy writes itself. 
Charlotte Hornets — 50 Cent 
To be fair, this is more of a re.ection on franchise owner Michael Jordan. Back in the day, both seemingly were on top of the world and virtually untouchable. But their business decisions of recent history have left their respective fans scratching their heads and wondering what happened to the good ol’ days. 
Miami Heat — Rick Ross 
Both extremely relevant in Miami, and fans of both can probably convince themselves that both the Heat and Rick Ross are actually good. But just as Rick Ross will always seem to be one-dimensional in his songs and reliant on his admittedly impressive guest acts, the Heat will have to rely on their impressive on-paper roster and hope it all pans out. 
Orlando Magic — Will Smith 
The trend continues of once-legends hoping to make a resurgence. Smith used to put out family-friendly jams, but his musical career has come back with a hint of desperation with his latest release, “Fiesta.” Similarly, the Magic have gone through a roller coaster of the past decade or so, and now are hoping that the infusion of young talent will bring them back to relevancy. We shall see, but for now Magic fans should skip the season and look forward to the “Summertime.” 
Washington Wizards — Wale 
Then there was Wale, the mercurial rapper who at times seems philosophi­cal, other times outright befuddling. The DMV rapper is the perfect analogy to his own team, as the Wizards seem to practically be begging to take the next step to an “elite” team status, only to at times take two steps back into mediocrity. As a fan of Wale and the Wizards, I can only hope that both become a bit more consistent in their success. 

By Miko Malabute 
Scene Editor 





ERIC RICHELSEN  | The Observer 


The observer |  TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Appreciate knowledge 
Kelly McGarry 
scene writer 

The university is idealized as a place that fos­ters love of learning, but what’s more evident is the love of success, ambition and elitism. 
i might have a unique perspective thanks to some advice i received at a highly impressionably age. in our teens we become aware of our own talent and propensity for success. we find success to be desirable. we’re praised for things that come naturally to us. The honor roll high becomes an addiction, and sometimes a crippling one. we live in fear that we’re going to lose that superiority and the praise and admiration that comes with it. 
when i was a 14-year-old freshman in high school, my english teacher made a bold and un­expected remark i will never forget. “you all care too much about your grades.” For my whole life i’d been stuffed into a classroom with a whole spec­trum of students. we were constantly pushed as a group to care more about our grades, and now the “right” thing to do was not care about them. i had to take it in, but the difference between learning and grade-seeking became distinct. later, i was inadvertently thrust into accepting this academic style. 
i took art class, regular old art class with no fancy honors or ap extra points in the gpa cal­culator. i got a b, and even that was generous. it seemed inconsequential at the time, but that b made all the difference in my academic experi­ence. as many will remember, the top students pretty much need all a’s. so in my first semester as a high school student, i was effectively put out of the running for the valedictorian, salutatorian, whateveratorian … i was free from enslavement by the pursuit of perfection, and i basked in that. 
i was free from strategically choosing classes for gpa points. i learned whatever i wanted. so i’m a lucky one, by chance not sucked into ambi­tion addiction. 
when i called the desire for success “crippling,” i didn’t mean that loosely. when a freshman comes into college already having shadowed surgeries, knowing in her heart that she wants to go to medical school, knowing the type of surgery she wants to do, then responds to a below-average first gen chem exam by dropping the entire pre­med track … then yes, it’s crippling. it’s stopping you from doing what you want, achieving your dreams and it’s a situation with too much pres­sure for perfection. This pressure is made even worse by the high level of students here. you can be an incredibly brilliant student and still score below the average because everyone else in the class is brilliant, too. 
so no, i haven’t calculated my likely gpa for the semester, i don’t know what score i need on the final to get an a in the class, i don’t even know what the grade cut-offs are. and to be honest, this all sounds petty to me. 
success is great. most people go to college with a career goal in mind. but i’m just saying, there’s something deeper, a profound experience of learning that’s only possible at a place like this. i don’t argue for throwing the gpa out the window, only that knowledge be appreciated as good in and of itself. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                           kmcgarry@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Why look at porn? 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 
notre dame students look at porn. it’s just a fact. in 2013, i conducted a very informal survey of more than 400 notre dame students on pornography use. sixty-three percent of men and 11 percent of women admitted to viewing porn while on campus. 
i don’t know entirely what to do with this fact. i don’t like pornography. i agree with Timothy bradley and hailey vrdolyak’s recent claim that “pornography use erodes our ability to love real persons.” and yet, the lack of “real per­sons” is precisely what makes pornography so attractive. 
pornography may be the epitome of interpersonal con­nection in contemporary society. it facilitates a manufac­tured, yet frequently personalized, relationship in which one can experience many of the excitements of sexual intimacy, while also offering protection from the vulner­ability, risks and work that come with actually getting an­other person to have sex with, or to even look at, you. given the real dangers of actually encountering another person, pornography is an alluring escape from the self that helps to pass what might otherwise be meaningless time. 
i suspect that pornography isn’t just about arousal and satisfaction, although it certainly includes them. it’s also about the loneliness, the disconnectedness and the fears that we have with the human beings around us. i’ve talked with many men who looked at pornography and wished they didn’t. For some, the pornography that they couldn’t resist was eventually overcome in the process of falling in love. There was something about loving another that fun­damentally changed how they related to the world and to themselves. it was about more than simply trying harder not to look at porn. 
some people believe that pornography comes from a decline in morals. but in “diagnosing the modern malaise,” walker percy writes, “the real pathology is not so much a moral decline, which is a symptom … but rather an ontolog­ical impoverishment; that is, a severe limitation or crippling of the very life of 20th-century man. if this is the case and if this crippling and impoverishment manifests itself often in sexual behavior, the latter becomes the proper domain of the serious novelist.” and it affects the videographer as well. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
3ga Tour 
everybody has a passion. For Knott hall’s third floor, that passion is mini-golf. Throughout the stressful mid­term week, Knott hall was transformed into a 5-hole mini-golf course for the inaugural 3ga Tour. The tour­nament, run by freshman Thomas piccione iii, saw a fierce competition among its 20 participants. on the first day of the tournament, the weakest 16 were eliminated; the top 4 moved on to the second day of the tournament. Faced again with the same treacherous course, all four golfers put up a valiant fight in search of winning the soon-to-be-famous orange Jacket. in the end, junior pat sheehan was able to overcome the various obstacles of the course (including stairs, football pads and intrigued bystanders) in order to prevail as the victor. The orange Jacket fit perfectly on the 5-foot-10-inch, 190-pound sheehan. when asked for comment, sheehan said, “i’d like to thank god, my family and my caddy. we’re go­ing to disney world.” (note: Knott hall is not paying for his trip). since Knott hall is friends of all women (or so we proclaim), preparation for a w3ga tour has already begun. any woman interested in participating should start working on her short game immediately. 
Ryan Meade 
19th place freshman 
Thomas Piccione III 
fifth place freshman 
sometimes you do just need to buckle down and force yourself not to do it. aristotelian virtue comes from habit, which comes from repeated activity. if you want to become the kind of person who doesn’t do something, part of what you’ll need to do is to choose not to do that thing, over and over again. and once that choice becomes a habit, you won’t simply be the same person who doesn’t do something. according to aristotle, you’ll become a different kind of person. 
perhaps the person who habitually looks at pornography is a kind of person. but to say that the root of that person’s pornography use is pornography is kind of like saying that the root cause of alcoholism is alcohol. The slide into porn addiction, just as with the slide in to alcoholism, involves much more than porn itself. it involves a way of life, a view of the world, one’s relationship with oneself and with oth­ers. i have friends who went more than 20 years without looking at porn and without much struggle, until some major life event changed them in some way, and then porn was a response to this change. maybe, for some, porn is about coping. 
percy suggests an “ontological impoverishment,” rather than simply a moral or even sexual impoverishment, as the source of contemporary sexual practices. but what is the impoverishment? it’s not only about having certain beliefs or being a part of certain communities. From what i’ve seen, contemporary american christians and catholics with a relatively clean public image look at pornography al­most as much as everyone else. what is it that makes them impoverished? 
wendell berry writes, “sex is not a story in itself. it has interest, meaning, even power, only when it is understood as part of a story.” what makes the interest, meaning and power in pornography? what story or stories does it sug­gest? porn isn’t just something to do. it’s part of a story about society, culture and ourselves. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013. He is currently pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies at the University of St. Thomas. He can be contacted through his blog at universityideas.wordpress.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
infant charge 
i love just about everything about the university of notre dame, but am very unhappy and disappointed about the stadium’s policy for children. children are free until at least two and often until they are three every­where my wife and i have been with our 17-month-old son: disneyland, major league baseball games and every flight we have taken. we surprisingly encountered the nd policy last year when we came for the unc game, that all children need a ticket regardless of age. we were required to purchase a full-price ticket ($80) for our 5-month-old infant who was carried in our arms the entire game and slept through most of it. This policy is absolutely absurd for a catholic university touting itself as a ‘family’ and promoting alumni to bring their families to experience the university and share its values. i don’t know if i have ever been so infuriated and, quite frankly, embarrassed to be apart of the notre dame ‘family.’ we were reminded of this again when we brought our son back this past week­end for the usc game (what a great game). 
as a legacy myself, i will continue to come back to relive the memories created as a student and teach the tradition to my family, as my dad taught me, with the hope that they will have a chance to attend this great university. but this is a terrible policy that should be changed immedi­ately. we are, after all, a non-profit organization. 
Steve Sweeney 
alumnus class of 2006, msa class of 2007 oct. 25 


Race shouldn’t define people 
Neil Joseph 
viewpoint columnist 
over the past few months, we’ve seen race rela­tions in our country come under heavy scrutiny. From the violence in Ferguson, missouri, to baltimore, maryland, our country has been plagued by conflict caused by racial discord. because of this, many com­mentators, columnists and activists have commented on the deeper problems that seem to have caused our nationwide racial tension. out of this, ideas such as “white privilege” and movements such as “black lives matter” have divided our country. some believe that movements and ideas such as these are irrelevant, wrong and unnecessary. others think that these peo­ple are blind, ignorant and unwilling to listen. 
many people may think that as a brown kid from columbus, ohio, i have no place in talking about black lives matter or the concept of white privilege. and that may be true. my experiences, however, have given me a unique perspective on the race debate that permeates throughout our country. i’m not black, so i don’t entirely feel the same feelings that many black people around our country have felt this past year. at the same time, i’m not white, so i don’t personally understand what emotions are elicited for a majority of our country when talking about race relations. but i’ve had my own experiences, seen what people think and learned about what others feel about an issue that challenges their identity. 
For me, the use of the words “white privilege” puts the wrong name on a concept that i’ve seen and experienced to be true. The words “white privilege” connote a tangible and real advantage that a person gets from the color of their skin. in today’s day and age, i don’t find this to be true. Today, being white is no longer a direct advantage for getting a job, getting into a school or many other things (aside from a few igno­rant examples that will always persist). This, however, does not mean that our nation is totally colorblind or perfect when it comes to race relations. 
For me, the concept of “white privilege” is better de­scribed in a different way. There isn’t a perfect phrase or word to describe it, but there is an inherent benefit for someone to be white: they do not have classifica­tions, definitions and stereotypes placed upon them. in my experiences, my skin color and my background has put preconceived notions into people’s heads. most people assume that because i’m indian, i’m de­fined by brains, a desire to be a doctor and my ability to spell words. although this may not seem to be a horrible stereotype (people probably overestimate my brains and ability to spell), it reveals part of the reason why race relations in our country seem to be so bad. There is more to me than what many people assume because of the color of my skin, and i want people to learn these things without expecting me to act in a certain way. 
These assumptions that i’ve experienced are what the heart of racial dialogue todays aims to get to. i honestly believe that most people who talk about the concept of white privilege aren’t blaming anyone, be­cause no one’s status at birth is their own fault. people who comment on race should be largely seeking to eliminate the widely held assumptions about different groups based on their classifications. again, this doesn’t imply that merely white people hold these as­sumptions (i find myself doing it) or that they are some way at fault. rather, dialogue about race should be about acknowledging the fact that some people ben­efit or are hurt because of the classifications that are placed upon them, and that we need to change this. 
at their core, movements such as black lives matter seek to eliminate the largely unconscious assumptions that society and people as a whole place upon certain groups. people don’t think about the way that stereo­types and classifications impact their worldview, out of no fault of their own. a person’s upbringing, experi­ences and interactions have the greatest impact on the way they look at others. The only way to counter this is to approach each new person with an open mind and a rejection of preconceived notions. This isn’t color blind, but stereotype blind. it extends to race, but also to many other things. people are defined by their race, gender, part of the country, income status and so much more. once we stop letting all of these things (especially race) inform our feelings about a person before we get to know them, then we will begin to make progress in improving race relations in our country. people can’t control their status at birth — so we must classify them by what they can control. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He welcomes all thoughts and suggestions and can be reached at  njoseph2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
More respect than rivarly 
David Nemenz 
guest columnist 

a few weeks ago, our son invited my wife and i to accompany him to the notre dame versus navy football game in south bend. we were anticipating a full-fledged, if not closely contested, college football rivalry. what we experienced was much, much more, culminating in a day replete with hope, gratitude and pride — a memo­rable celebration of god and country, notre dame style. The university orches­trated a gripping program that honored not only its deep catholic roots but also the u.s. military, as well as our unique american heritage. 
you won’t find the notre dame/navy rivalry on most any top-10 lists, or even top-20. notre dame has won 48 of the last 51 meetings. as such, this annual contest typically is too lopsided to qualify as a hotly contested, major rivalry. preeminent college football rivalries are essentially about waging gridiron war annually against one’s most despised (and often toughest) opponent. unquestionably, storied rivalries, such as michigan/ohio state, alabama/auburn, oklahoma/Texas, georgia/Florida and numerous others contribute mightily to major college foot­ball’s enormous popularity. but, such is not the case when notre dame plays navy each year as they have since 1927. This annual clash is unique and much more significant than any football rivalry. it transcends the game. 
For years both sides have considered this 89-year football series (our country’s longest, continuous intersectional col­legiate football contest) more of a sacred tradition than simply a gridiron battle. 
The continuing series grew roots because of a perceived obligation and blossomed via mutual appreciation of those prin­ciples each institution holds dear. during wwii, notre dame faced a looming, likely fatal, financial crisis. as many students were sent off to war, the university was left financially destitute. Thankfully, the u.s. navy made the campus a training cen­ter for 1,800 v-12 navy college Trainees, paying notre dame for their use of its campus facilities. Those funds kept the university out of bankruptcy. “an annual payment on a debt of honor,” is how the recently deceased, 35-year president, Fr. Theodore hesburgh put it. and so, honor­ing his wishes, the rivalry continues, likely indefinitely. 
This year’s “navy week” celebration fea­tured the theme “respect.” mutual respect was apparent all day long, throughout the campus, even during the game. patrons were remarkably well behaved. Trash from a sea of tailgating was nowhere to be found except at designated receptacles. during the contest, we encountered no obnoxious yelling or swearing, and found everyone around us to be quite polite — the polar opposite of a typical pro football game (and of far too many college games). respect for our military was a prominent theme featured both pre-game and at half time. The visiting midshipmen were given a standing ovation when introduced. The attending naval cadets stood proudly the entire game out of respect for their on-field mates, cheering tirelessly regardless of the score. and, never once did we hear the navy team booed or jeered. 
because of the bedrock foundations of these two institutions, reverence to god was not neglected, as so often it is today ei­ther by bad choice or by misguided law. To the contrary, he was a central focus. i kept thinking that this day is perfectly reminis­cent of the proud, passionate, polite and prayerful america i remember from too long ago — a country i long to encounter once again. 
The notre dame/navy weekend began very similar to a typical home game. but, then, the day’s focus shifted dramatically to an affirmation of “navy week.” Two international space station astronauts presented the colors, one a retired air Force colonel from notre dame, and the other a captain from the naval academy. everyone stood respectfully, engrossed in the solemnity. precisely as the subsequent national anthem culminated, four F/a-18 navy hornets screamed over the stadium, a navy football game tradition. Then, notre dame and navy-trained officers from the new uss indiana nuclear subma­rine saluted the fans proudly upon being introduced. 
a sudden pyrotechnic burst declared the arrival of first the notre dame play­ers, followed by their navy opponents, as both squads cascaded from the north tunnel and jogged to the south goal line. There all players, notre dame and navy alike, kneeled, helmets off, and prayed. where have you seen that lately, if ever? sadly, religious “political correctness” is on a forced march throughout much of america, trampling christianity’s sym­bols without shame. but, i am confident such plundering will never permeate this private campus. honoring god is the very heartbeat of notre dame. and so shall it remain at all costs. unfortunately, the naval academy must march to our government’s drumbeat. we can only hope. 
as the coup de grace, 90-year-old Johnny lujack, the most famous notre dame player of all, walked gingerly to mid-field to toss the ceremonial coin. Just pinch me. growing up, i thought of Johnny lujack as some sort of deity in shoul­der pads rather than a living, breathing all-american hero. catholic schoolboys everywhere so idolized his persona, and spoke so unceasingly of his otherworldly gridiron exploits, that i had determined he had to be a figment of their imaginations. later, of course, i learned that he was for real, a heisman Trophy winner no less. and, here he was, in the flesh, 70 years later, traversing the very battlefield he once dominated. i was awestruck. 
The half-time program began with a wwii tribute from the band, first a glen miller wwii-era medley, followed by a tribute to all armed Forces branches. Then they struck up “god bless america,” as they morphed into the outline of the united states. within it, the notre dame roTc unfurled the american flag. dry eyes? not many. 
Finally, each team joined the other in singing their respective alma maters, a long-standing tradition. where else in sports can one observe such an overt, moving expression of mutual respect? reluctantly, the three of us bid this special day adieu at sundown, entirely satiated, and wishing that everyone in america could have tagged along. would that it could be more than just a wish. 
oh, yes, notre dame won again this year 41-24, but i digress. 
David Nemenz can be reached at  dlnemenz@gmail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

singing the college football blues 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
instead of cinderella’s slip­pers, get ready to put on your blue suede shoes and play the delta blues, college Football playoff committee: 
memphis could be about to crash your ball. 
if you should know any­thing about my qualms with the college Football playoff, it’s that the current four-team format doesn’t allow any room for the little guys. 
This year, a possibility ex­ists out there that could really bring this problem to the fore­front. no. 16 memphis is 7-0. 
now, before anyone jumps down my throat screaming there’s no way a non-power 5 team can get into the playoffs, hear me out, because the ab­solute perfect storm still has potential to be brewing. 
memphis’s upset over ole miss two weekends ago was well-discussed throughout the college football world. it shed light, and deservedly so, on the successful year in which the american athletic conference (aac) is cur­rently reveling. undefeated memphis at no. 16 in the ap poll. undefeated houston at no. 18. no. 21 Temple still undefeated, too — and with a suddenly important matchup with notre dame this week­end to prove itself. 
sure, there’s no way all three teams will stay undefeated since they’ll have to beat each other up eventually. but if one of them, especially memphis or Temple, goes undefeated, they’ll have a strong case to make for more than just a new year’s six bowl game. 
especially because there could be some other confer­ences that won’t. 
The pac-12’s hopes es­sentially rest on stanford, which already has a loss to northwestern, albeit in the first week of the season, and utah, which a talented usc squad ran circles around last weekend. both of those teams are on razor’s edge, and the three-loss Trojans sit in prime position if the utes stumble before the end of the season to be the pac-12 south represen­tative in the title game — and the conference champion. 
The big Ten is another inter­esting case: if michigan state falls to ohio state and then michigan beats ohio state, there would be a three-way tie at the top of the east division. depending on tiebreakers, a two-loss michigan team could end up in indianapolis — and the conference champion. 
The acc has basically pinned its hopes on clemson staying undefeated and un­questionably in the playoff picture. any trip by the Tigers makes things very interesting for that conference, too, espe­cially because one could ar­gue the american is as deep, or at least as top-heavy, as the acc. 
notre dame, the lone inde­pendent candidate still in the race, still has three ranked teams left on its schedule, one of which is Temple. a win by the owls suddenly vaults them into new year’s six bowl consideration, at the very least. any loss by the irish also knocks them out of play­off contention. 
Finally, then, there is the sec. 
“wait,” i’m sure you’re thinking, “the sec champion is going to be in the playoff, no questions asked.” well, don’t forget that a team that controls its destiny in the sec west is … wait for it … 
ole miss. 
The same team memphis beat two weeks ago. 
if a two-loss rebels team runs the table and beats lsu and then Florida, presumably, in the sec championship game, could they actually be put in the playoff over an un­defeated memphis team that beat them? 
sure, i’ll concede that in each of these scenarios, the stars have to align perfectly, starting with memphis, or Temple, even, going unde­feated the rest of the year. but remember there are four spots available, and only five power conferences and notre dame to fill them at this point. all it takes is three of those six to trip up in some way 
i’ve outlined five of those six possibilities above (you can pencil the winner of the big 12 in for a spot). all it would take is three of the above situa­tions to unfold and suddenly: chaos. 
could Temple beat notre dame in two weekends? There’s one. 
could notre dame then beat stanford over Thanksgiving, handing the cardinal their second loss? or could utah trip up and give its spot in the conference’s title game to three-loss usc? There’s two different ways. 
could ole miss run the ta­ble? There’s three. 
stranger things have hap­pened in college football. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Seidel leads Irish at Wisconsin Adidas Invite 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
The notre dame women placed 12th and men finished 27th at the wisconsin adidas invitational on oct. 16. 
senior all-american molly seidel once again led the way for the irish, turning in a 19:22.4, runner-up finish in the six kilometer race. The performance earned seidel the honor of acc women’s cross country performer of the week and cements seidel’s standing as one of the best runners in the country. irish assistant head coach matthew sparks said seidel’s consistent performances have been a ma­jor boost to the team. 
“[seidel] does what she does,” sparks said. “she’s confident in who she is now; she’s been the key to our suc­cess over the last 12 months … she’s doing everything she does for the betterment of the team.” 
not far behind seidel was freshman anna rohrer who finished 12th with a time of 
19:56.9. Though she has two events under her belt, the wisconsin invitational was the most competitive field rohrer has faced in the regular season, and sparks said she is doing a good job adjusting to the collegiate scene. 
“[rohrer’s] done really well,” sparks said. “That was one of my concerns with her coming in was she hasn’t really lost a race throughout high school, and she and i talked through­out the summer that she wasn’t going to win everything in college. it was going to be a challenge to step up and con­tinue to improve … honestly i think she’ll start to close the gap on molly [seidel] a little bit over the next month or so.” 
Though seidel and rohrer have been consistent, the women’s team is dealing with a number of injuries, most no­tably senior danielle aragon who is out for the year. in light of the injuries, sparks said he has been impressed with grad­uate student Karen lesiewicz and her ability to embrace the “next man up” mentality. 
“The [runner] i’m particu­larly excited to see her have the success she’s had is Karen lesiewicz,” sparks said. “she’s gone from a girl, her first couple years, who didn’t re­ally contribute at all to being a solid contributing member of the team this year. she’s really stepped up and done that this year for us.” 
For the men, question marks still remain as to wheth­er the runners behind se­niors michael clevenger and Timothy ball can improve enough to challenge for a strong finish in the acc. 
clevenger and ball finished 43rd and 71st with times of 24:12.5 and 24:17.8, respective­ly, while junior chris marco followed in 81st with a 24:21.4 showing. behind marco, ju­nior Jacob dumford finished 222nd in 25:31. sparks said the team will look to dumford to improve as the team moves to­ward the acc championships. 
“Jake dumford’s a guy that’s had some success for us on the track,” sparks said. “he needs to transition his great prac­tices into great races. That’s the next step for him. we just need to get our fifth guy [to im­prove] and the most fit guy to do that right now is Jake.” 
The wisconsin adidas invitational also provided the irish a preview of what may be to come at the acc champi­onships, as numerous ranked teams competed-including acc contender north carolina state. 
“The women, we feel if we have a great day we can be running for second,” sparks said. “[north carolina state] and virginia are running very well, but we’d like to maybe catch them off-guard that day. on the men’s side, if we can finish in the top five, we’ve had a good day.” 
The irish will compete in the acc championships this Friday at apalachee county park in Tallahassee, Florida. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

SARAH OLSON | The Observer 
Freshman Annie Heffernan runs to an individual third place finish at the National Catholic Champi­onships at Notre Dame Golf Course on Sept. 18, helping the Irish to an overall team victory. 

FOR SALE 
Executive family home in the coun­try on 10 acres ¿ finished pole barn 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
¿ 5 bed 3 ½ bath Edwardsburg schools ¿ 68620 Leet Rd. Niles, MI 269-684-0885 $354,900 
WANTED 
High School Geometry tutor. Flewxible hours. Call 574-360-6910 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | The observer 



M Soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
ability to create so many scoring opportunities and credited the wildcats with being able to stop notre dame from converting. 
“we were close, but the goalie had several good saves,” clark said. “you have to credit the defend­ers as well, they did well in the box, they were very good at that.” 
“i think it was a fun game to play; we played it in chicago Fire’s stadium, Toyota park,” he said. “it was nice to play there; it was a very nice field, and it was a very good game. we felt we deserved more, but it was a very good game.” 
despite the run of over­time games and games on the road, clark said he did not feel that fatigue was an issue for his team, pointing to the fight they showed in each extra period. 
“i think each game, we were in good shape,” clark said. “i didn’t think the team looked tired towards the end of any of their games. in fact, i think in all of the overtime games, we were the team that looked to be trying more to win it.” 
“The game against northwestern we actually played very well, it was just a little bit of composure to finish the shots off be­cause we had a lot of the game. There’s no question about that — we had a huge advantage in shoots it just wasn’t our day.” 
The irish took an early lead again against wake Forest on Friday, this time thanks to lachowecki’s third goal of the year, but again couldn’t hold on in the second half. Freshman midfielder Jack harrison scored early in the second half, and sophomore mid­fielder Jon bakero scored a late winner for the demon deacons. Junior defender brandon aubrey had an 89th-minute header that nearly tied the score but shot narrowly wide. 
clark said he wasn’t par­ticularly concerned about the close defeat. 
“you win, you lose. That’s part of competing and playing a game,” clark said. “wake Forest are currently no. 1 in the country, but it was a very close game, and we did a lot of things very well. There’s a lot that we can certainly improve, we could have done better in a few areas, but we did well in a lot of other areas, so i think that you learn from the mistakes and you hold onto the good things and you move on.” 
The irish will return to action saturday at 2 p.m., when they meet pittsburgh at alumni stadium. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


W Soccer 
conTinued From page 12 
north carolina, to take on the blue devils (9-5­4, 3-3-3 acc) at Koskinen stadium. an early miscue by the blue devils provid­ed the irish with their best scoring opportunity of the game. in the third min­ute, duke was called for a hand ball in the box, which gave notre dame a penalty kick. gilbertson the con­verted the opportunity for the irish, giving them a 1-0 lead. The remainder of the game was a scoreless affair, as irish junior goalkeeper Kaela little saved all three of the blue devils’ shots on goal to preserve her team’s lead. 
gilbertson’s three shots in the game led the team, and the goal was her team-leading ninth on the year. she currently leads the conference in shots and is fifth in goals. having scored both of the deciding goals in her team’s last two wins, gilbertson has been crucial to the team’s suc­cess in both of those games and this season as a whole, romagnolo said. 
“anna maria is an in­credible attacking player,” romagnolo said. “it’s excit­ing to see her gain confi­dence and put the team on her back at times to help us win some games during her senior season.” 
notre dame will next take the pitch on senior day, when it hosts no. 7 virginia Tech in the final game of the regular season Friday at alumni stadium. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 
herr. sophomore defen­seman Jordan gross found Fogarty along the goal line to Kaskisuo’s right. Fogarty one-timed the pass to herr standing alone in front of the net, and the goal-scorer redirected it just inside the far post to bring the game to its final score. 
it was notre dame’s turn to get off to the hot start saturday. 
midway through the first pe­riod irish freshman left wing dylan malmquist zipped into the bulldog zone and sent a shot on goal from the top of the left circle. Kaskisuo appeared to have control of the shot, but it ramped up his stick and snuck under his armpit and into the net to give the irish the 1-0 lead. 
notre dame extended the lead to 2-0 five minutes into the second period when se­nior center Thomas dipauli knocked home a rebound goal on the power play off a shot by sophomore left wing anders bjork. 
later, the irish increased their lead to 3-1 on malmquist’s second goal of the night and third of the season, after se­nior forward Tony cameranesi scored to pull the bulldogs within one. sophomore center Jake evans, who went 26-11 on faceoffs over the weekend, won an offensive zone draw cleanly, and the puck came right back to malmquist who one-timed a laser over the glove of Kaskisuo. 
notre dame failed to hold the lead, however, as cameranesi scored his second goal of the game and then picked up his third point with the primary assist on the tying goal by bulldog freshman defenseman neal pionk just three minutes into the third period. 
“There were points in time in the first period we started to see what this team’s going to be capable of once we get consistent in our game,” irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. “There’s glimpses of what we can do with our speed and our transition game, but it’s just a matter of putting it all togeth­er. it’s early in the year. it’s a lot of young guys, so over time i would assume they have a chance of being pretty good.” 
notre dame’s penalty kill units stole the show all week­end as the irish were a perfect 12-for-12, including a five-min­ute major kill Friday, after giv­ing up seven goals last weekend against penn state. The irish were led by strong perfor­mances in net by sophomore goaltender cal petersen and 30 combined blocked shots, including a 20-block perfor­mance saturday night. 
“[notre dame] got in shot lanes,” duluth head coach scott sandelin said. “… at the end of it, you’ve got to give them credit for doing a hell of a job killing. i know that we’re not that bad, but they did a good job [on the penalty kill].” 
of the penalty kill, Jackson said, “cal makes the differ­ence. he did a pretty good job controlling his rebounds on the penalty kill, and that’s a big factor. 
“Justin wade is a man out there, and i’m so impressed with him. he blocks shots. he’s a warrior. 
“we’ve got other guys who are doing a good job. … up front, this weekend i felt good about some combinations we put together.” 
notre dame is back in action this weekend when the irish begin hockey east play against connecticut. saturday’s puck drop is scheduled for 3:05 
p.m. at Xl center in hartford, connecticut, while sunday the irish and huskies take to the ice at the barclays center in brooklyn, new york, at 2:35 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | The observer 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: stand up for your beliefs and your rights. settle your differences and make the changes that will help you get past any adverse or negative opposition you face. your strength and courage will make an impact on the people around you, putting you in an instrumental position that will allow you to make a difference. love is on the rise. your numbers are 7, 12, 21, 32, 34, 41, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): old emotions will surface. be sure to express how you feel in a positive way. communicate what you would like with openness and affection. how you present and deliver your words will make a difference. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): open your eyes and take a good look at your situation. it’s important to express a desire to compromise and work alongside someone you love in order to build a brighter future. romance will improve your mood. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be careful not to take on more than you can handle. you can offer suggestions, but don’t weigh yourself down with someone else’s responsibilities. you will avoid getting tangled up in a poor situation if you keep your life simple and moderate. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Follow through with your plans and you will ease your stress. it’s important to do things that bring you joy and make you feel comfortable in your surroundings. love is on the rise, and future plans for two can be made. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): alter the way you live or how you approach your professional duties. good discipline will help you overcome any challenges you face. a friend or relative will offer you practical advice based on experience. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can stabilize your personal life if you don’t bite off more than you can chew. start small and build slowly. Time is on your side, and having the discipline to move at a steady pace will be crucial. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): work quietly toward personal goals and you will be successful. a change will do you good, and the time spent reaching your destination will keep you out of trouble. a job posting will be tempting and should be seriously considered. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The help you offer others will bring high returns. Taking a chance and putting your own unique stamp on whatever you do will draw interest. share some downtime with the people who bring you the most joy. love and romance are encouraged. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick close to home and do your best to make your place welcoming and friendly. adding something new to your surroundings will encourage you to spend more time at home and less time overspending on costly adventures. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): avoid getting involved in rumors, gossip or someone else’s business. you will end up looking bad or being blamed if you don’t keep your distance. put more time and effort into your personal life, home and family. romance is in the stars. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): check out online job postings or update a moneymaking idea to suit current trends. a partnership will limit your chances of expressing your talents if you aren’t careful. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Favors will be granted and partnerships offered. discuss a plan that will ensure everyone involved in your venture has the same amount of interest and can contribute equally. put a contract in writing before you begin. celebrate with someone you love. 

Birthday Baby: you are compassionate, relentless and perceptive. you are helpful and persistent. 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
MOVNE  

 
 
 
 
 

©2012 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
PATDO  

 
 
 
 
 

BBOWEC  

 
 
 
 
 
 

CANREP  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Find us on Facebook http://www.facebook.com/jumble 

Print youranswer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TROLL TREND WEIGHT VALLEY Yesterday’s 
Answer: He was bummed after failing to clear the hurdle, but he would — GET OVER IT 

make checks payable to and mail to:  The observer  
p.o. box 779  
notre dame, in 46556  
enclosed is $130 for one academic year  
enclosed is $75 for one semester  
name  

address 
city      state Zip 


The observer | TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
HOCKEY 

Irish tie Bulldogs in both games of homestand 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
after a pair of games both head coaches called “mirror images” of one another last weekend, notre dame and no. 5 minnesota duluth skated to a pair of 3-3 ties Friday and saturday at compton Family ice arena. 
The bulldogs (2-1-2) jumped out to an early 2-0 lead just over 10 minutes into the first period Friday on goals by senior for­ward austin Farley and junior forward alex iafallo. 
it was the penalty kill unit though, led by senior center and team captain steven Fogarty, that jumpstarted the irish (1-1­
2) midway through the second period. 
Fogarty made a spinning poke check on a duluth player just over the irish blue line, then picked up the loose puck and raced into the duluth zone on an odd-man rush for the irish. Fogarty cut to the middle of the ice and fed the puck back to junior defenseman Justin wade, who blasted a one-timer past duluth sophomore goal­tender Kasimir Kaskisuo to cut the irish deficit to one goal. 
“That was almost like a per­fect drill-type situation we did this past week,” wade said of the goal. “i just threw it on net as hard as i could. Just got it off. i had two people behind me, and we’re on the [penalty] kill, so i wanted to just put it on net, and i wasn’t really expecting a goal.” 
Freshman defenseman bobby nardella evened the game just four minutes later, carrying the puck into the corner of the duluth zone and throwing it towards the front of the net. The puck careened perfectly off a bulldog defense­man’s skate and into the net for nardella’s first career collegiate goal. 
duluth once again pulled in front five minutes into the third period on a tally by senior forward austyn young, but the irish pulled even again just two minutes later on a power play goal by senior left wing sam 
see hocKey PAGE 10 


MEN’S SOCCER ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
notre dame goes winless on road trip 
Gilbertson leads ND to pair of ACC wins over break 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame ended last week’s 3-game road stretch winless, drawing 0-0 with virginia Tech and 1-1 with northwestern, before a 2-1 defeat to no. 2 wake Forest. 
The irish (8-3-5, 3-2-2 acc) traveled to virginia Tech on oct. 16 unbeaten in their past six contests, the last three of which were decided in overtime. both streaks continued as neither side could find a goal after 110 minutes of action. 
redshirt freshman for­ward drew ott came close to scoring for the hokies in the 35th minute, round­ing irish junior goalkeeper chris hubbard with a wide shot. For notre dame, the best opportunities came in overtime, when in the 95th minute sophomore forward Jon gallagher squared the ball towards sophomore midfielder blake Townes, who was unable to get on the end of it. notre dame’s next chance to close came in the final minute, when senior midfielder and co-captain patrick hodan played a cor­ner kick straight to senior midfielder evan panken on the edge of the box, whose shot was blocked and cleared to keep the game scoreless. 
Facing northwestern on Tuesday, notre dame domi­nated the game’s scoring op­portunities, taking 39 shots, the most for the program in 20 years, to northwestern’s seven. 
an eighth-minute goal from gallagher set up by a pass from graduate student defender max lachowecki looked to have the irish in control against the wildcats, but sophomore forward elo ozumba equal­ized in the 58th minute and northwestern held on. 
after 90 minutes the score­line remained the same, marking the fifth consecu­tive overtime contest for the irish. The sides still could not separate, as the game finished tied, 1-1. irish head coach bobby clark said he was impressed by his team’s 
see m soccer PAGE 9  
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 15 notre dame went 2-1 over its fall break ac­tion, bookending a loss to no. 9 north carolina with wins over wake Forest and no. 22 duke. 
The irish (12-4-1, 5-4­0 acc) began their action over the break with a 1-0 win over the demon deacons (4­12-2, 1-8-0 acc) last Friday at alumni stadium. notre dame dominated the first half of action, outshoot­ing wake Forest 11-0 in the half. however, it was not until the 36th minute that the advantage manifest­ed in a lead on the score­board, when sophomore midfielder sabrina Flores sent a cross up the field to senior forward anna maria gilbertson, who buried a shot into the right corner of the goal to give her team a 1-0 lead. That lead held for the remainder of the game, as the second half was a tighter contest with no goals scored and only eight shots between both teams. 
irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said she thought the defensive performance was what led the team to victory. 
“we defended really well,” romagnolo said. “we didn’t allow many opportuni­ties. we also created a fair amount of good opportuni­ties for ourselves. we com­peted very well and brought a strong mentality to the field.” 
Following the win at home, the irish had a short break before traveling to north carolina for a two-game road stretch. First, the irish traveled to chapel hill, north carolina, to bat­tle with the Tar heels (13-3­1, 6-3-0 acc). 
after a scoreless first half, the irish started the game’s scoring off with a goal less than two minutes into the second half. Junior forward sandra yu found Flores, who scored her second goal of the season to give the irish a 1-0 lead. however, the Tar heels responded with two goals of their own following two of notre dame’s 19 total fouls in the game. in the 71st minute, redshirt senior for­ward alexa newfield scored a penalty kick to tie the game up. Then, just three minutes later, newfield sent a free kick into the box for junior midfielder Joanna boyles to head in and give the Tar heels a 2-1 win. 
although it played with the competitive aggression she asks of them, the irish ultimately committed too many bad fouls that led to the defeat, romagnolo said. 
“a couple of the fouls were silly, and a couple i thought weren’t actually fouls,” romagnolo said. “we were overzealous in the box on the penalty kick, and that one hurt us. on the free kick, we typically defend set pieces very well, but that one just got away from us. i liked that we were competi­tive, but mistakes cost us big in that game, and you can’t make some of the mis­takes we made.” 
To end their road trip, the irish traveled to durham, 
see w soccer PAGE 9 




