ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPaPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE daME aNd aNd rEPOrT SaINT Mary’S IT aCCuraTEly 

VOluME 50, ISSuE 122 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016 | NdSMCObSErVEr.COM 
Activist analyzes threat of climate change 
Bill McKibben emphasizes the rapidness, consequences of global warming in Hesburgh lecture 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 
“This is by far the biggest thing humans have ever done, and by far the biggest task human beings have ever had is to stop it, and to stop it cold,” environ­mentalist bill Mckibben said of global warming in the 22nd annual hesburgh lecture on Tuesday. The lecture was spon­sored by the kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Mckibben is considered to be one of america’s most impor­tant environmentalists and is the founder of 350.org, a planet-wide, grassroots climate change movement. 
When he wrote his first book on global warming,”The End of Nature,” in 1989, he had no idea the situation would become as dire as he said it is today. 
“The idea that we would have reached this point within barely a quarter century would have seemed preposterous, even to those scientists who most wor­ried about climate change,” he said. “We knew that trouble was coming. We knew when you burned coal and gas and oil, you put carbon into the atmosphere. We knew the molecular struc­ture of CO2 trapped heat that would otherwise radiate back out into space. but we didn’t know how fast and how hard it was going to pinch.” 
according to Mckibben, 2015 broke the record for the hottest year — previously 2014 — by “more than a 10th of a degree Celsius.” 
“Think about how large a physical system the Earth is, and then imagine how much extra energy it takes to heat a system that large a full 10th of a degree Celsius within 12 months,” he said. 
Mckibben’s movement has organized 20 thousand rallies around the world, holding them in every country except for North korea. These rallies are dedicated 
see ClIMaTE PAGE 5 

WEI CAO | The Observer 
McKibben speaks Tuesday night in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. His organization, 350.org, protests against catalysts of climate change. 



Saint Mary’s student Speaker considers post-grad offers promotes LGBTQ 
an acceptance into the u.S. have known where I was living 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 



acceptance 
News Writer Teaching assistant Program until after I committed. People of the austrian Ministry of that I have talked to said to go The end of the year is usu-Education and Women’s affairs. with the austria program be-On Tuesday night, Shepard 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
ally a time seniors scramble to after comparing the two op-cause the one in germany could News Writer spoke about the theme of accep­make decisions on post-gradu-portunities, she confirmed either be in a university city or tance and how it applies to mem­ation opportunities, but Saint her acceptance to the austrian in the middle of nowhere, and I In October 1998, Judy bers of any community that may Mary’s senior and accounting Program over the weekend. wouldn’t know that until I was Shepard’s son Matthew was mur-experience discrimination, not major Meghan Flanagan finally “I chose the one in austria already in. dered in a hate crime. 17 years just the lgbTQ community. knows what awaits her. because the location is bet-“The dates work out a lot later, Shepard spoke as the key-“This is not just about the 
Flanagan was awarded a ter [and] there’s less of a risk,” better too because I have to note speaker for ally Week 2016 lgbTQ community — this is about Fulbright u.S. Student Program Flanagan said. “For the pro-to share a mother’s perspective scholarship to germany and gram in germany, I wouldn’t see FulbrIghT PAGE 5 on hate crimes and prejudice. see ally PAGE 5 

Club marches for fossil fuel divestment 
By RACHEL  O’GRADY 
associate News Editor 
roughly fifty students, led by Fossil Free Nd, marched from Mckenna hall to the Main building early Monday evening to protest the university’s cur­rent investment in fossil fuels. 
Freshman adam Wiechman said the goal of Fossil Free Nd is to push the university to fully divest from fossil fuels within the next five years. 
“We want the university to be­come an active voice in climate change and really take a look at those funds,” Wiechman said. 
The protest followed a talk by environmentalist bill Mckibben as part of the hesburgh lecture Series. 
“bill Mckibben, the inspira­tion for our movement, is the founder of the global divestment movement,” Wiechman said. “We decided to jump on the op­portunity of him being here. We met with bill beforehand; he gave us a shout-out during the speech. It was great.” 
Wiechman said they received bigger numbers than they ini­tially anticipated. 
“We actually picked up a lot of people. We marched from 
see dIVESTMENT PAGE 3 

MICHAEL YU | The Observer 
Members of Fossil Free ND gather in front of the Main Building on Monday evening. The students  organized a march across campus in protest of the university’s investment in fossil fuels. 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 8 baSEball PAGE 16 MEN’S baSkETball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
kayla Mullen  Christina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex Carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: Clare kossler 
News Editor: katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Claire radler Sports Editor: Marek Mazurek 
Scene Editor: Erin Mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Nicole Caratas Photo Editor: Caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: Susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei Cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa aguayo Controller: Emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices POSTMaSTEr Send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. box 779 024 South dining hall Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the associated Press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If you had to eat at one chain for the rest of your life, what would it be? 

Alex Baumann 

Bertie Arce 
freshman 
freshman 
Morrissey Manor 
Walsh hall 
“Cheesecake Factory.” 
“California Pizza kitchen.” 
Maggie Feighery 

Jack Bryck 
freshman 
freshman 
Walsh hall 
Fisher hall 
“red lobster.” 
“T.g.I. Friday’s.” 
Connor Buckley 

Bernie Grant 
freshman 
freshman 
Morrissey Manor 
Pangborn hall 
“golden Corral.” 
“rainforest Cafe.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Selena Ponio ben Padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea Vale Manny de Jesus Justine Wang Elizabeth greason 
Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lindsey Meyers kelly Mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 
Men’s Lacrosse vs. Mindful Meditation Unveiling of “The Football Scrimmage: Women’s Soccer vs. 
Caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 
Marquette Coleman-Morse Shirt” 2016 Blue-Gold Game Northwestern Arlotta Stadium Center Hammes Bookstore Notre Dame Stadium Women’s Soccer 4 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m. Practice Field 
Corrections 
The Irish take on the Open to students, Brady Quinn will assist Student admission is 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. 
The Observer regards itself as Golden Eagles. faculty and staff. in the unveiling. free with ID. Exhibition match. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Poetry Reading: Kim Pride and Prejudice ND Relay for Life ND Handbell Concert Culinary Academy: 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Yideum DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Make Your Own Sushi 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hammes Bookstore Arts Center Arena Heart Morris Inn 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 5 p.m. - 11 p.m. 8 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Award-winning author Adapted from the Walk for the American Celebrating the Tickets are $35 per 
we can correct our error. 
of five books of poetry. novel by Jane Austen. Cancer Association. Jubilee Year of Mercy. person. 


Dismas House celebrates 30th anniversary 


return home. If they do not re­ceive support, they are high risks to re-offend. They need help with securing medical and dental care. Many need mental health services … and drug and alcohol treatment. Finding and maintaining employ­ment is paramount. dismas helps with all of these needs.” 
kaczmarek said dismas house also advocates on social justice is­sues on behalf of ex-offenders. 
“We hope Indiana will opt out of the federal law that prohibits indi­viduals convicted of a drug offense from receiving [Supplemental Nutrition assistance Program (SNaP) benefits] for life,” she said, “People who have committed far worse crimes, such as rape, can re­ceive SNaP [benefits]. We feel it is morally wrong to deny a person the basic human need of food. Other states have opted out of the federal law that bars those with drug con­victions to receive SNaP [benefits]. also, we would like to see [the] ‘have you ever been convicted of a felony?’ box removed job applica­tions. This would allow the person to be interviewed and given the opportunity to explain his or her criminal history and to their share skills and talents as they relate to the job.” 
kaczmarek said South bend’s dismas house is a “century old Victorian house — it is not a facil­ity, it is a home.” It currently houses 12 residents, all of whom commit to participating in their clinic-specif­ic reentry plan for between 90 days and two years. Weekdays, residents attend school or work at jobs. Monday through Thursday, resi­dents gather to eat dinner together “as a family.” The evening meal is prepared by volunteers who dine alongside residents. 
“[and] like all families, we watch TV, play games, go to the movies, visit with family and friends and have fun,” kaczmarek said. 
In addition to providing an in-home family, dismas house in­corporates local college students to add to a rehabilitative community. 
“We welcome all college stu­dents, but Notre dame students were the first to become involved as residents and volunteer cook(s),” kaczmarek said. “For 29 years, the men of keenan hall have been pre­paring dinner and eating with the residents every Monday night dur­ing the school year. … also Notre dame’s Circle k students provide tutoring on Tuesday evenings to residents. Student residency has a major impact on the house. Students are non-judgmental and open-minded. They bring laughter and fun to the house. 
“ ... because of the presence of students many of our former of­fenders gain a newfound respect for education, and they decide to enroll in higher education.” 
Student volunteers gain some­thing from the work with the dismas house residents, too, said one volunteer. 
“dinner always begins with a prayer led by one of the residents, followed by each person at din­ner stating their name so that guests feel welcome before the meal is served,” T.J. groden, a ju­nior in keenan hall and dismas house volunteer, said. “Sharing the meal with the residents is as, if not more, important than prepar­ing it. The conversations I’ve had 
Divestment 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
Mckenna to the Main building, placing signs down along the way that were orange footprints that represented climate change impacts,” Wiechman said. 
Freshman brittany benninger said she was excited about the turnout and impressed by Mckibben’s talk. 
“bill Mckibben is super influ­ential right now, and we love that he was able to come out on cam­pus,” benninger said. “he gave a great lecture on climate change and the need to divest from fos­sil fuels, and that’s why we’re out here today.” 
benninger said it is impera­tive the administration focuses on divestment in the next five years. 
“It’s really important that [the administration] understands that they need to take their money out of such practices and reinvest in some better, more sustainable and renewable in­come,” benninger said. 
Freshman abby Ferguson said she was also excited about the protest and the talk itself. 
over dinner at dismas house have significantly changed my views on our country’s prison system. 
Francisco yang, a sophomore in keenan hall and another dismas house volunteer, said he consid­ers the dinner discussion with the residents as the most important part of Monday dinners at dismas house. 
“dismas residents help our vol­unteers become more open mind­ed and better informed about the circumstances that lead up to incarceration and the struggles that lead many people who are released to become re-incarcer­ated very soon after. discussions of social justice issues are crucial because of the lack of available resources for these members to help them cope with their circum­stances. … The start to resolving social injustice begins with in­forming the public because igno­rance contributes to a culture of misunderstanding, and dismas does its part to make a difference.” 
kaczmarek also quoted a dismas house graduate, “greg C.,” in her email: 
“It has been 12 years since I left dismas house, and I haven’t been in any trouble. I finished my ap­prenticeship and received my associates degree from Ivy Tech. until then I always felt that soci­ety looked at me like an outcast. dismas showed me this wasn’t true and that everyone deserves a second chance. The way dismas and the South bend community accepted me will always hold strong in my heart, and I will never forget it. I thank the dismas staff, students and volunteers and the program for changing my life.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
By ANDREA VALE 
News Writer 
The dismas house in South bend has assisted over 1,000 ex-criminal offenders since 1986, with 101 local college volunteers shar­ing in their journeys along the way. dismas house will celebrate its 30th anniversary at a benefit din­ner april 13, one of several other anniversary celebrations through­out the year. 
“Our mission is to facilitate the reconciliation of former prisoners to society and society to former prisoners through the develop­ment of a supportive communi­ty,” Maria kaczmarek, Executive director of South bend’s dismas house, said in an email. “dismas house is a unique place where col­lege students, former prisoners and volunteers come together to create community.” 
according to kaczmarek, South bend’s location is part of a larger nationwide dismas house non­profit, which began in 1974. 
“It is a unique program be­cause former offenders share the house with area college students,” kaczmarek said, “[It] recognizes that the cycle of crime can be re­duced when men and women who have been incarcerated have assis­tance readjusting to society. To that end, dismas house provides room and board, case management, bus passes, employment services, life skills counseling, mentoring and programs to help former offenders make a successful transition back into the community. 
“returning prisoners need [an] adjustment period when they 

“We had a lot of people join us from the talk, and I know we had a few people join us on the way,” Ferguson said. “We stopped seven times along the way to put down seven footprints for things that are the result of cli­mate change, such as drought, sea level rise, ocean acidifica­tion and crop reduction.” 
Protestors were invited to sign a banner that had shamrocks in the outline of a globe. 
“We wanted people to sign to show individual support for the cause,” Ferguson said. 
according to Ferguson, the administration has been less than cooperative or responsive to any of the group’s protests. 
“I don’t know if Jenkins has had an official response to any of this, but if he has, I know it’s been basically to say, ‘Stop,” Ferguson said. “The adminis­tration has thus far, based on what I understand and know, has been really unresponsive, just kind of trying to ignore it and hope it’ll go away. but the goal is to not let that happen be­cause this is important.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 



Fulbright 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
take the CPa exam this sum­mer,” Flanagan said. “My orientation for the germany program would have begun September 12th. ... It just seemed like everything was pointing to austria as the bet­ter option.” 
Flanagan said many stu­dents are chosen as alternates for the program and do not find out if they can teach until late summer. She said she be­lieves her eight years of learn­ing german benefited her in gaining acceptance into not one, but two language related programs. 
“I was pretty proud of myself when I found out,” Flanagan said. “It’s really re­warding because I feel like the past four years I’ve been working really hard and now it’s finally starting to pay off. It was really nice to have the option between the two coun­tries. I’m really thankful that I heard right away, and that I was accepted as a candi­date for both rather than an alternate.” 
during her time at Saint Mary’s, Flanagan studied abroad in Innsbruck, austria. She said this time she is ex­cited to return as a teacher rather than a student. 
“It’s not so much about teaching English, but it’s more so a really good way to spend time abroad long term,” Flanagan said. “I’m not just traveling and I’m not just seeing a big city for a few days but I’m actually living there, and I’ll be immersed into the culture. It’s kind of like a post grad study abroad, but I’m not the one studying. 
“It’s more about pushing myself out of my comfort zone.” 
Contact Sydney Enlow at  senlow01@saintmarys.edu 
Climate 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
to resisting climate change; protests have been against the keystone Pipeline, while rallies have been in support of the fossil fuel divestment movement. 
350.org began with Mckibben and seven undergraduate stu­dents at Middlebury College, where he is a professor. 
“There were seven undergrad­uates, there are seven continents 
— each one took one,” he said. “Our work was to find other peo­ple like ourselves. Everywhere, there’s someone worried about the world and they were our natural allies in this work. We didn’t really organize; it was more like throwing a potluck supper. That’s what we did. We said here’s the date, and we need everyone to do their part.” 
That date was November 2010 and the event was an art exhibit called 350 earTh, where par­ticipants from around the world coordinated human sculptures that were photographed with satellites. 
“I had heard, always, that en­vironmentalism was something rich white people did,” Mckibben said. “It took about half an hour of watching these videos flood in to realize that was just non­sense. Most of the people leading this work around the planet were poor and black and brown and asian and young because that’s what most of the world is made up of. They’re just as concerned as anyone else, maybe more so, because the future bears down hard when you’re in those places.” 
One of the pictures Mckibben showed during his lecture was of haitian children participating in his movement, holding signs that said, “your actions affect me.” 
“as always with climate change, all of these things affect most the people who have done the least to cause the problem,” he said. “The perverse inverse justice of climate change is an enormous challenge, not least of all to those of us with a faith commitment that would be loving our neighbors. 
“There’s really nothing anyone in haiti is going to do to fix this. They can’t use less fossil fuel, they use none now. They can’t get to the White house or any other seat of power to get people to pay attention to them.” 
When Mckibben and 350. org were organizing a protest of the keystone Pipeline in Washington, d.C., he said he told protesters to dress well. 
“I said, ‘If you want to come get arrested, will you put on a neck­tie or a dress?’ I wanted people to do that because I wanted the pic­tures from that day to send the same sort of message I’m telling you today, which is that there’s nothing radical at all about what we’re talking about. all we’re ask­ing for is a world something like the one humans have always known,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
accept everyone for who they are. 
Ally 
Not just members of the lgbT[Q] 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 1 
community, but everybody as fel­
low human beings because really, everybody,” Shepard said. “This is at the core of it, we are all the same.” not a new thing. ...what we do now In her victim statement, a state-at the Matt Shepard Foundation is ment read to the court by the vic­promote the idea that we should tim or their loved ones so the court 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 

gets to know the victim during a trial, Shepard said she and her family started the Matt Shepard Foundation to solidify her son’s legacy. 
“While Matt was in the hospital, many people concerned about him began to send money to help defray medical costs,” she said. “as a fam­ily, we decided we would rather use that money to make something positive come from something so completely devoid of humanity. We have started the Matthew Shepard Foundation and are hoping that it will be helpful in encouraging ac­ceptance and embracing diversity. It is one way we can honor our son.” 
Shepard said she does not under­stand why people struggle or refuse to accept members of the lgbTQ community for who they are. 
“you don’t tolerate people,” she said. “you accept them because they are who they are. you can’t change who you are. ... the idea that you can change any of that is, in my opinion, absurd.” 
Shepard said her son’s death was a direct result of the hate that had been normalized in society. 
“Matt is no longer with us be­cause two men learned that it was okay to hate,” she said. “They were given the impression that society condones or is at least indifferent to violence against ‘the others, the people.’” 
The type of violence and dis­crimination Matt experienced re­mains prevalent, Shepard said. 
“When same-sex marriage be­came the law of the land — or should I just say when marriage, for everyone, became the law of the land — we began to feel pushback from places that did not want to honor marriage between same-sex couples,” Shepard said. 
despite the remaining legisla­tion discriminating against the lgbTQ community, Shepard said the 2009 Federal hate Crime bill, which carries Matthew 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 

Shepard’s name, offers some hope. 
“before, lgbT[Q] was not a protected class and now it is,” Shepard said. “It’s the first time that any federal legislation actu­ally mentions the gay and lesbian community as a protected class.” 
Tthe most powerful way to combat this discrimination is through education, Shepard said. 
“We’ve become a SIC society 
— silent, indifferent and com­placent,” she said, “Educate, educate, educate … It’s the key. Everything stems from igno­rance. Fear, violence [and] hate stem from ignorance.” 
however, Shepard said no leg­islation will ever be as effective as sharing a personal story and urged the audience to speak out. 
“If you tell your story, then other people begin to under­stand what that story is about,” she said. “It’s so much more dif­ficult to hate a person or dis­criminate against a person than it is against an abstract idea … Storytelling is how we change the world.” 
Shepard placed an emphasis on the importance of allies also sharing their stories and said she believes her son’s death con­tributed to expanding the ally community. 
“I think what happened to Matt woke up the straight world about what’s going on to the gay community. Of all the mail we received, easily over half was from the straight community. 
“dennis [Shepard] and I feel like we are doing what Matt would be doing if he were still here,” she said. “If Matt were still with us, if what happened to him had not happened, then he would be doing this work … I would not be here, you all would not know who I am — it would be Matt that would be here, and that would be just fine with me.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 

ThE ObSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016 | NdSMCObSErVEr.COM 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A church of acceptance 
Jenna Wilson 
News Writer 
On april 8, Pope Francis released an apostolic ex­hortation titled “amoris laetitia,” latin for “The Joy of love.” as the Catholic tradition calls for love and mu­tual respect, this aptly-titled, revolutionary document calls for priests and members of the Catholic Church to welcome single parents, gay people and unmarried couples who live together into the Church with open arms and non-judgmental attitudes. 
While the document does not change doctrine, it shows the changing modernity of the church, which is crucial during a time when more young people report feeling alienated from the faith. Instead of alienating those who do not fit the traditional family model, these new guidelines on family life show the Church should be more understanding of the reality of the modern world. 
“by thinking that everything is black and white, we sometimes close off the way of grace and growth,” Pope Francis writes. 
Pope Francis called on local bishops and priests to in­cite change, noting that different regions can interpret doctrine in different ways, in order to “seek solutions better suited to its culture and sensitive to its traditions and local needs.” This response to the diversity of the global church is necessary. There are over 1.3 billion people who identify as Catholics, each of whom indi­vidual backgrounds and who should be accepted into the Church regardless of personal situations. 
additionally, Pope Francis makes it clear that “the verbal, physical and sexual violence that women en­dure in some marriages contradicts the very nature of the conjugal union,” regardless of cultural practices. “I think of the reprehensible genital mutilation of women practiced in some cultures, but also of their lack of equal access to dignified work and roles of decision-making.” Once again, the pope is addressing modern issues and leading Catholics around the world on a path to tolerance through Christ. 
I find it particularly important the pope addressed the treatment of homosexual Catholics in the Church. he writes, “Every person, regardless of sexual orienta­tion, ought to be respected in his or her dignity and treated with consideration.” 
I fully believe this statement echoes the tradition of John 13:34-35, in which Jesus calls on his disciples to “love one another as I have loved you.” Jesus announces to the world, “by this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another.” This is a clear denunciation of violence and hatred against homo­sexuals, which many have come to associate with the Church. In his exhortation, the pope makes clear that anything less than respect is unacceptable. 
“I understand those who prefer a more rigorous pas­toral care which leaves no room for confusion. but I sincerely believe that Jesus wants a Church attentive to the goodness which the holy Spirit sows in the midst of human weakness,” he writes. 
It is important for the church to reflect modern cul­ture while still being rooted in tradition. The tradition of the gospel is not rooted in just words printed on a page, it is rooted in love and acceptance of all people. 
The pope makes it clear to Catholics around the world that they can find a home in god regardless of circumstance. This message, a message of love and acceptance, is the most important thing the pope could share. 
Contact Jenna Wilson at jwilso35@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The doors of perception 
Ray Ramirez 
The Crooked Path 
Why am I here? 
The old baltimore Catechism of my parochial school years had a ready answer (as it so consis­tently and comfortably always did): “To know, love and serve god.” but my current query is of a more specific nature: Why am I here, in the laun­dry room? 
young or old, we’ve all experienced the phe­nomenon of stepping into a room and suddenly forgetting the purpose for our trip. Perhaps the better question is, then: Why did I forget why I am here? 
Notre dame psychology professor gabriel radvansky suggests that the act of passing through doorways may actually cause these memory lapses. In a study published in the Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, radvansky explained that passing through a doorway serves as an “event boundary” in the mind, which separates episodes of activity and files them away. 
he concluded that “recalling the decision or activity that was made in a different room is dif­ficult because it has been compartmentalized.” 
In his first experiment, radvansky allowed the white mice to take a break and used college students to perform memory tasks. using a vir­tual environment, subjects moved from room to room via a door, selected an object on a table and swapped it for an object on a different table. They also performed the same task while moving around in one room without crossing a doorway. 
The results of the test demonstrated the stu­dents forgot more after walking through a door­way compared to moving the same distance while staying in one room. 
The second experiment essentially repeated the memory tasks in a real world setting, requir­ing students to choose objects from a table, then conceal those objects in boxes. after hiding the objects, the students then either walked across a room or traveled the same distance including passing through a doorway. 
The real world results duplicated those from the virtual experiment: passing through a doorway reduced the students’ memories. 
Finally, radvansky examined whether door­ways caused memory loss or if one’s ability to recall information is linked to the location where an action or decision took place. Students in this experiment chose objects to hide, walked through several doorways and returned to the room where they started. 
The students’ ability to recall the objects cho­sen did not improve, bolstering the conclusion that passing through a doorway causes the mind to file away memories. 
anecdotal observations also support the corol­lary that passing through doors of certain drink­ing establishments may accelerate the collapse of memory. dude, where’s my car? 
Office design consultants read radvansky’s research with an eye towards capitalizing on his discoveries. One designer emphasized that this tendency of persons to forget while passing through doorways is an opportunity to “prepare a blank slate for [your visitors’] new location.” 
The consultant claimed moving guests through a series of planned entranceways gives the own­ers of the properly designed environment a “pre­cious few minutes … when your company will clinch or lose influence.” 
The specific advice was mostly of an obvi­ous and trivial nature (e.g., “keep all public and client facing spaces well maintained and look­ing neat and tidy”), with the occasional nod to radvansky’s work (“Make doorways and entranc­es as wide as possible so that the transition is more of an experience”). 
The theme of doorways and passages wiping memory predates radvansky’s research. dante acknowledged the dramatic power of doorways when he admonished travelers crossing the threshold of hell to “forget all hope, you who en­ter here.” 
a gentler rumination on the need to set aside the burden of past memories is found in “The Chambered Nautilus” by Oliver Wendell holmes, father of u.S. Supreme Court justice Oliver Wendell holmes, Jr. The poem traces the poet’s contemplation on the broken spiral shell of a nau­tilus, a relative of the octopus that closes off old chambers and moves to new ones as it grows. 
Most notably, the elder holmes sees the effect of moving from one chamber to the next: “year after year beheld the silent toil / That spread his lustrous coil; / Still, as the spiral grew, / he left the past year’s dwelling for the new, / Stole with soft step its shining archway through, / built up its idle door, / Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more.” 
Not to give away the ending, but the final move of the nautilus, as it is for each of us, is to leave “this mortal coil.” While Shakespeare’s meaning of “coil” in hamlet’s soliloquy is more like “tur­moil,” the result is the same. 
after that final passage, then what happens? Mansions and purer light in heaven? do we get another shot with our lives? Or does death serve as celestial Windex, as imagined by William blake: “If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, Infinite.” 
In Chinese cosmology, Meng-p’o is the old woman who greets you in the underworld and wipes your mind of all memories of life before the soul is reincarnated. 
No offense to Meng-p’o, but I paid dearly to col­lect my memories — good and bad, treasured or not — and I am willing to keep them as long as god allows. When I think of my friends and fam­ily, of my beautiful wife and wondrous children, I want to make sure that whatever room I finally step into, I am allowed to remember it all. 
Otherwise, why am I here? 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ThE ObSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016 | NdSMCObSErVEr.COM 
We all know Desdemona 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 
I recently saw “Othello” for the first time at Chicago Shakespeare Theater. It was a great pro­duction with strong performances and an astound­ing set. The play itself, of course, is a masterpiece. It’s before-its-time handling of race relations is more pertinent than ever (Othello is a black man in decidedly-white Venice). but it was the terrible de­mise of his wife desdemona that affected me most deeply. 
To summarize, a soldier named Iago feels slighted by his general, Othello, and seeks revenge by con­vincing him that desdemona is unfaithful. driven to a rage, Othello kills her and then, realizing he’s been tricked, kills himself. 
Though the questions of racial injustice are pierc­ingly vivid, particularly in a modern context: It was the horror of domestic violence, intimate partner violence and violence against women that made this production such a viciously contemporary monster. and as much as Othello himself is a victim of unspeakable cruelty on account of many things, including his skin color, the questions of gender were just as searing in a society where women of all races were collateral damage. The results are unde­niable. at the end of the play, two women have been killed by their husbands. desdemona is strangled in her bed. 
I knew desdemona. her name was Jessie blodgett. We met in high school and shared similar interests, drama and music in particular. In July 2013, Jessie was killed when an ex-boyfriend stole into her home and strangled her in her bed. She was nineteen years old. 
Many of you have known desdemona, maybe more than one. We’ve all seen her on the news, read about her online. She is shot to death in Milwaukee. burned alive in India. Stabbed in England. She is all races and all ages. She is what we — women — fear most to become. how can we avoid her? 
Shakespeare gives us no answer. The sense of inevitability in desdemona’s death is palpable in “Othello.” Everyone knows she will die. Othello. Iago. Emilia. The audience. desdemona herself. No one can, or no one will, intervene for her. No good Samaritan. No green dot. From the minute Iago names her as an instrument of his revenge, she is a dead woman. and though she and Emilia come to sense it, there is nothing they can do to stop the onslaught of fury and false betrayal that Iago un­leashes in Othello. 
desdemona is the victim of a social structure that reduces women to objects, men to animals and peo­ple of color to pawns. She is the holocaust sacrificed on the altar of male entitlement (Iago feels entitled to a position of power and punishes Othello for not giving it to him) and fragility (Othello is so “dishon­ored” by her invented infidelity that he must kill her to restore his own self-esteem). Everyone suffers 
— all races, all genders — but who suffers the most? Who is dead on the bed at the play’s end? a black man and two women. 
desdemona is a statistic. and in watching her death story unfold, we realize the domestic violence that kills her takes root in the torment Iago inflicts on Othello. This does not excuse Othello. but it pro­vides a concentrated glimpse into the forces at work behind a violent, imbalanced, unfair system that results in murdered women, often dead at the hands of people they know. and a crushingly pessimistic takeaway is that these forces are too subtle, too en-grained, too consciously-driven to be stopped. We know there will be more desdemonas. and like a paralyzed, complicit audience, we will do nothing. 
am I wrong? I hope so. People like Jessie’s par­ents make me think I might be. They’ve established the love is greater than hate Project to combat violence against women and encourage men to pledge never to be complicit in violence against a woman, girl or child. They’ve drawn inspiration from their daughter — who herself was an advocate against gender violence – and made meaning out of meaningless destruction. They’ve reclaimed the narrative. 
but as long as we believe that this is “just the way it is,” as long as we think we are an audience in the world rather than actors, we have not just accepted the inevitability of desdemona’s death, but ensured it. 
It does not have to be this way. No universal play­wright is writing violence, murder and rape into our society. No usher is forcing us to remain in our seats. The sooner we realize our own agency, the sooner we can restore desdemona’s. It starts with four words: “This is not right.” 
do not acknowledge violence as normal. don’t joke about it. don’t ignore it. be outraged. be angry. be scared. 
and then be brave. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
yes, we need campaign finance reform 
We read Eddie damstra’s april 7 column, “Corporations, campaigns and the Constitution” that discussed the Citizens united v. FEC case. damstra said people who disagree with the ruling misunderstand it and free speech. We argue that damstra does not fully consider the practical ef­fects of the Supreme Court ruling. 
damstra claims the ruling “did not suddenly allow corporations and unions to give directly to political parties or campaigns. … [It] allows corporations and unions to contribute money to independent expenditure committees, now classi­fied as super PaCs.” he is correct, but this is a use­less distinction. rather than donate to campaigns, corporations donate to third party organizations acting as campaign reservoirs. donating to PaCs is less efficient because they cannot coordinate with campaigns directly, but it still leads to corporations having an effect on elections. 
damstra quotes Justice kennedy to assert that the First amendment “prohibits Congress from fining or jailing citizens, or associations of citizens, for simply engaging in political speech.” This justi­fies corporations donating to PaCs. Such thinking makes sense when applied to an association of like-minded activists. however, corporations are not made up of like-minded individuals. Instead, the actions of a corporation reflect the leanings of its leaders. It is unrealistic to expect all workers in a company to share political leanings. 
Furthermore, corporations are not and should not be treated as individuals and be given the full set of rights under the law. Treating corporations as individuals originated in the mid-19th century and serves necessary economic and legal purposes; without those rights corporations would not func­tion. however, they have never been treated as indi­viduals possessing the full set of rights that people do. Corporations are not afforded Fifth amendment rights. as entities, they are also unable to vote, not because they lost the right but because they do not have it by their nature. 
damstra highlights how the Citizens united rul­ing “does not permit corporations to spend without public disclosure” and cites the five-justice major­ity ruling that says, “This transparency enables the electorate to make informed decisions and give proper weight to different speakers and messages.” again, this is correct, yet disclosure does not dimin­ish corporations’ support and sway on the elections. The public goes from suspecting that corporations contribute to campaigns to knowing that they do. 
damstra believes that those who desire reform need to focus on enhancing transparency. yet transparency does not rectify the fact that corpora­tions have an influence on campaigns that an indi­vidual cannot match. 
damstra states that those who understand the case but still disagree misunderstand free speech. We disagree philosophically on what constitutes free speech. Consider John rawls’ liberty principle: “Each person is to have an equal right to the most extensive scheme of equal basic liberties compat­ible with a similar scheme of liberties for others.” 
Permitting corporations the ability to donate unlimited sums of money gives them an outsized ability to affect change. In a society where equal­ity is held as ideal and everyone should possess a right to affect democratic change, entities should not have the ability to affect policy changes based on how rich they are. Calling to maximize freedom of speech — by allowing unlimited contributions — without considering the consequences undermines the right of the less well-off to have a say in govern­ment. Excessive liberty, not properly tempered, can lead to unfair outcomes and usurp the principle of equality which we also hold dear. 
While some may argue that “people have freedom of speech in voting and can vote for whomever on election day,” this argument does not stand given the financial pressures that presidential and congressional candidates face when running for election (which is a related topic worth its own discussion). 
Senator Chris Murphy (d-CT) illustrated how elections lead to a focus on large contributions from super PaCs and wealthy elite: “For a Senate race, I’m not calling anybody who doesn’t have the chance of giving me at least $1,000. ... The people I am calling, you know, are folks that are making, you know, a half million to a million dollars. They have funda­mentally different problems than everybody else.” 
a 2014 study by Princeton political scientists found that the views of the economic elite predomi­nate in policy outcomes.  This outlook diminishes the ability of middle class or lower class individuals to achieve policy outcomes which favor them, and it diminishes the latter group’s ability to participate in the democratic process. 
ultimately, we realize money will always be a part of politics given television ads, travel and campaigning, payroll for staff, etc. We are not argu­ing to eliminate financial influence on elections, because “money, like water, will always find an outlet.” but we believe there is a better campaign finance equation incorporating campaign contri­butions and the individual’s voice, where Citizens united does not devolve free speech into oligar­chic excess and a two-class view driving policy outcomes. 
Kyle Witzigman 
class of 2016 
Patrick LeBlanc 
class of 2018 april 10 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 
ThE ObSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016 | NdSMCObSErVEr.COM 

By BRIAN BOYLEN 
Scene Writer 
For every unique and innovative proj­ect successfully funded by crowdsourc­ing websites such as kickstarter, there are many more failures. Perhaps it is due to the stress of deadlines or lofty expec­tations from donating fans that leads to many of these ventures being released half finished — or never. For seven years, animal Collective fans have waited with bated breath for the debut solo project by long time band member deakin, who ap­peared to be another tragic victim of this kickstarter syndrome. In 2009, he started a kickstarter in order to fund a concert in africa and a Cd of his first work as a solo artist. In a 2012 interview with Pitchfork, deakin revealed that he realized all of the money was unnecessary, and instead opted to donate it all to the Mali charity known as TEMEdT. deakin ultimately self-funded the project, which resulted in “Sleep Cycle,” a six-song, 33 minute al­bum that reminded listeners everywhere that good things come to those who wait. 
By ERIN McAULIFFE 
Scene Editor 
at the art Institute of Chicago, there is a tea kettle that would overflow if filled by a medicine dropper and a clock smaller than its pocket-sized brethren. 
People peer into the 68 tiny tableaus of The Thorne Miniature rooms and see minute details painstakingly crafted in constraint. Standing in front of the glassed-in art works, there is a surprising sense of immersion: a dollhouse-esque nostalgia in the breadth of the elaborate, condensed scenes. 
“Next Thing” contains 15 songs. It is 28-minutes long. Frankie Cosmos’ sopho­more album, released april 1, mirrors Narcissa Niblack Thorne’s intimately in­tricate art. The Thorne Miniature rooms were constructed on a scale of one inch to one foot between 1932 and 1940. however, while Thorne instructed master craftsmen to carry out her specifications, greta kline (Frankie Cosmos) is a dIy artist. 
With over 40 tracks on her bandcamp profile in 2013, kline, then 19 years-old, was mastering unconstrained experimen­tation via fragmented songs and involved lyricism. Vulture named kline’s 2014 18-minute long debut album “Zentropy” the best Pop album of 2014. She addresses 
No one wants to wait seven years for an album, but when the result is as masterful as “Sleep Cycle,” it is hard to be too upset. Minutes into the opening track “golden Chords,” the album evokes a familiar feel­ing of animal Collective records of yore, and yet refreshing and unique. The track begins with ambient sounds of nature; the low croaking of distant frogs is slowly replaced by a simple yet powerful gui­tar strumming that persists throughout the song. deakin reveals his voice about a minute into the track, a rare sound as singing is typically handled by band-mates avey Tare and Panda bear on the vast majority of animal Collective songs. his ever so slightly distorted vocals give the impression that he is speaking from just beneath the surface of water; you can understand him, but he lacks clarity. This effect pairs well with his ambiguous and unsure lyrics, such as “days fog / Can’t see past the edge of what’s gone but I’m hoping I’ll try.” 
deakin double downs on this musi­cal fog on the second track “Just am,” an eight-minute journey that relies on a 
the pressure the acclaim added to the de­velopment process of “Next Thing” (her self-awareness affirmed by the title) on track “I’m 20:” “Washed up already,” she croons before examining her thought process behind consumerism and corpo­rate america via the time she accepted a MySpace pen from a recruiter. 
kline is able to strip down the heavy into relatable airy pop tracks that clock in under two minutes. She has the power to make small things seem deceivingly big and big things accessible. The concept is perfectly depicted in the Pitchfork produced music video for track “Outside With The Cuties.” 
a goPro helicopter shot seems to intro­duce an expansive nature documentary setting, until a toy train speeds into the camera and the scene is shown in full: a miniature indoor tableau of its own sorts. The circling train set and the song’s ear­nestly imploring lyrics, “I haven’t writ­ten this part yet / Can you help me write it?” evoke a nostalgia for children’s PbS shows — specifically, “Mr. rogers” as kline strums her garage as a larger-than-life mu­sical adult amongst toys. 
In a meta way, kline addresses the compartmentalized and repeated min­iature scenes in her lyrics: she peers into vans in “O dreaded C Town” and glances into house windows from the street in flowing rhythm to keep hold of the lis­tener’s attention. There are no immediate payoffs in this album — no catchy and repeatable hooks. “Sleep Cycle” is not an album that will leave these little memo­rable snippets of songs stuck in your head all day. That is not to say it is not addicting in its own way. It imparts more of a long­ing, a deeper desire to return to its ethe­real world of swirling melodies. 
“Sleep Cycle” is not for everyone. While it may seem downright mainstream compared to some of animal Collective’s more esoteric releases such as the highly cluttered and abrasive “Centipede hz,” the album is still firmly rooted in the ex­perimental. This is demonstrated best in the track “Footy,” a song like nothing I have heard before. The percussive back­bone of the track hits with the force of a crashing wave — retreats for a brief mo­ment — and then comes hurtling down again. The combination between the strange musical composition of “Footy” and deakin’s wailing vocals results in a unique, and yes, weird, auditory experi­ence. after having listened to it several 
“Sappho.” kline is curious but removed, like the people standing in front of the Miniature exhibits at The art Institute. 
kline expands on these meta references throughout the album. She elaborates on her “rear Window” tendencies, wonder­ing if the subject of her intent is reading Sappho (a female greek lyric poet who is regarded as one of the greats but has only one full poem intact today; The rest are fragmented, paralleling kline’s styling). 
She references david blaine’s illusion work “On The lips» and the affecting power of arthur russell’s music on her mood — not the first krill shout-out in her discography. 
“Next Thing” is fuller than “Zentropy.” kline has a full backing band allowing her to delve into pop-punk further than before, the fittingly cosmic, twirly synths on “Floated In,” the Mark Mothersbaugh­esque aquatic pinging on “Interlude” and the steady strumming, drumming and humming prevalent throughout. but it’s the lyrics that carry the capsulated tracks: The church responsorial repetition of “Embody all the grace and lightness” (“Embody”), the stingingly relatable “you were a dealer, a friend, a prick, a friend, again with more to it” (“O dreaded C Town”) and the cutesy daily dog pic mus­ings (“If I had a dog”). 
times, I still honestly can’t tell if “Footy” is my favorite or least favorite track off the album. 
as a whole, the album “Sleep Cycle” stands as a triumphant rebuttal to any claims that deakin is a weak link within animal Collective. I look forward to the ideas he will bring to the table when he (hopefully) rejoins them for their next album. 
Contact Brian Boylen at              bboylen@nd.edu 
“Sleep Cycle” 
Deakin 
Label: My Animal Home 
Tracks: “Golden Chords,” “Footy,” “Good House” 
If you like: Animal Collective, Panda Bear, Deerhunter 

In an interview with Pitchfork, kline spoke on the process that goes into her lyrics. 
“For me, this record was about old feel­ings. half of it was written a long time ago, and the other half was written about a long time ago — this is what this emotion means, this is a good way to deal with it.” 
Thankfully for us, kline evaded the mindset of the album’s closing lyrics: “I don’t know or care to know / I don’t care or know to care.” Through cathartic, relatable and poignant musings, kline has given us an album to get to know and care about. 
Frankie Cosmos will be playing at Schuba’s in Chicago on april 27. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                                  emcaulif@nd.edu 
“Next Thing” 
Frankie Cosmos 
Label: Bayonet Records Tracks:  “Sinister,” “Too Dark,” “Fool” If you like: Eskimeaux, Cherry Glazerr 


LINDSEY MEYERS | The Observer 


CROSSWORD | WIll ShOrTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | JOhN rOddy & ErIC CarlSON 
SUDOKU | ThE MEPhaM grOuP 

FLING BY SPRING | rIlEy MCCurrIE HOROSCOPE | EugENIa laST 


Happy Birthday: Find ways to cut your overhead and steady your financial situation, and you will ease your stress. don’t worry about how much money you have when your main concerns should be achieving peace of mind and maintaining what’s really important to you. an opportunity is apparent to make your future better. don’t hesitate to take the practical path. your numbers are 8, 17, 20, 22, 29, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): avoid appearing inconsistent or unpredictable, or you will be regarded as difficult. an emotional issue with someone will come to a head if you can’t find it in your heart to forgive and forget. Make love and compassion a priority.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Extend a kind gesture to someone. your sensitivity and compassion will bring high returns. Participate in events that will bring you in touch with someone from your past. an aggressive action will show others that you mean business. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a reality check is in order. recall memories that will make you revisit a similar situation to the one you face now, and you will be wiser in the way you handle matters. a subtle change to your appearance will bring compliments. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): your sensitivity will make it difficult for you to keep the peace. responding to someone who makes negative comments will not help you move forward. Save your energy for something that will enhance your life instead of harming it. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put business first and you will advance. use your charm, wit and bright personality to wow those you work with. let your adventurous spirit continue to grow when it comes to your personal life and romantic desires. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): rely on your perceptive qualities to help you come up with answers and to guide you through any situations that may be uncertain. don’t be tempted to overdo, overspend or overreact. Take the practical approach whenever possible. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Partnerships are highlighted and can make a difference to the way you live. an unexpected change will alter your way of thinking as well as your direction. don’t let emotions hold you back from an opportunity that stimulates you. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take on a project that will use your talents by implementing the thing you get the most out of doing emotionally, financially or physically. an opportunity will have its highs and lows. don’t let emotional blackmail cause you to miss out. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Socialize, do things with children or make new friends. you can make an interesting change at home that will give you greater freedom to reach your life goals. being open to compromise will help you deal with those who oppose your plans. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): learn from observation and avoid making a mistake. Caution will be required while traveling or taking on physical challenges. reconnecting with someone from your past will have an influence on a decision you make. Impulsive reactions will lead to personal uncertainty. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have plenty of ideas, but before you try to take on too much, consider what’s most important to you and concentrate on completing one thing at a time. Organization and preparation combined with enthusiasm will lead to your success. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Express your desires and share your dreams, but don’t be too quick to try to do the impossible. being reasonable and looking for practical alternatives should be your intent. don’t give in to poor habits or temptation. 

Birthday Baby: you are kind, proud and generous. you are ambitious and energetic. 
JUMBLE | daVId hOyT aNd JEFF kNurEk 


     Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
To
 receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable and mail to: The Observer P.O. box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name 
address 
City State Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Ad patches will pose problems 

Ryan Klaus 
Sports Writer 
reports surfaced Tuesday afternoon indicating Nba league owners were expect­ed to come to agreement on a rule that would allow ad­vertisement patches to be a part of jerseys beginning as soon as next season, some­thing that has been specu­lated for quite some time in the league’s recent history. 
Now, it can quickly be­come trivial to get un­necessarily agitated over a 2.5-by-2.5 inch patch that will assume a meager per­centage of the overall jer­seys, but, as a traditionalist in most respects when it comes to sports, I — like a number of fans of the sport 
— would prefer not to have jerseys bogged down by advertising. 
undoubtedly, the only reasons for putting adver­tisements on jerseys are financially motivated. It is estimated that each adver­tising logo could generate four to six million dollars in additional revenue for each team. While this may seem like a significant amount of money, it is relatively small by Nba standards. For ex­ample, it is barely sufficient for the Miami heat to cover the annual salary of reserve forward Josh Mcroberts, who averages a basically insignificant 3.6 points per game. 
Simply put, taking the risk of upsetting a potentially large numbers of a sport’s fan base just does not seem worth it for a league that is already incredibly profit­able, especially when the added value of the move is 
— relatively speaking — not that valuable. 
Moreover, the new earn­ings from advertisements will almost assuredly spark debate between team owners and the player’s union on how the extra earnings will be allocated. 
Obviously, there are ex­isting professional sports leagues that have had suc­cess with inserting adver­tisements on jerseys, but there is a reason that all four major american sports 
—
 the Nhl, Mlb, Nba and NFl — currently have jer­seys that are free of ads, despite how money-centric each of these leagues is. 

The worst potential out­come of Tuesday’s report and ultimate implementa­tion would be a set of con­sequences where the Nba 

—
 and potentially other ma­jor american sports leagues 

—
 cascades into more ex­treme placements of ads on jerseys. Certainly, getting past the initial impediment for ads on jerseys will make subsequent and more severe transformations increas­ingly feasible. 


When it comes to sports, advertisements have an un­deniably enormous footprint on many facets of all popu­lar professional leagues, whether it be through com­mercials or an assortment of signage. For major american professional sports, jerseys are one of the few features of games that have managed to steer clear of advertise­ments, which suggests just how much value people per­ceive them to have. Overall, when comparing the po­tential benefits against the costs and possible future negative ramifications of it all, the Nba’s move to re­portedly include ad patches on jerseys for next season is both head-scratching and unnecessary. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | dIaMONdbaCkS 4, dOdgErS 2 
dodgers drop home opener to diamondbacks 
Associated Press 
lOS aNgElES — Paul goldschmidt hit a go-ahead homer in the eighth inning and drove in another run, and the arizona diamondbacks beat los angeles 4-2 to spoil the dodgers’ home opener Tuesday in Vin Scully’s final season. 
goldschmidt gave the d-backs a 2-1 lead with his second homer of the season off Chris hatcher (1-1), who then gave up a two-out double to Welington Castillo be­fore issuing consecutive walks to Jake lamb (intentional) and yasmany Tomas that loaded the bases. hatcher departed to boos. 
arizona added two more runs in the ninth on Socrates brito’s triple and goldschmidt’s groundout to shortstop. 
kenta Maeda allowed five hits over six scoreless innings, struck out four and walked one in becoming the second Japanese pitcher to start a dodgers home opener since hideo Nomo in 1996 and 2004. Except for the walk, his line was identical to that of his 7-0 win last week at San diego in his major league debut. 
Tyler Clippard (2-0) gave up one hit in one inning and strik­ing out one. brad Ziegler pitched the ninth to earn his first save. 
yasiel Puig entertained the sellout crowd of 53,279 on the base path and in the field. 
In the fifth, Puig legged out a double and overslid the bag, putting him in a game of cat and mouse with second baseman Jean Segura. Sprawled on his stomach in the dirt, Puig initial­ly touched the bag with his right hand while a fully stretched Segura rested his left glove in the middle of the base. Then Puig quickly stuck out his left hand and the umpire signaled safe. The d-backs challenged the call when it appeared Puig touched Segura’s glove with his left hand, but it was upheld after a review lasting 3 minutes, 51 seconds. 
In the sixth, Puig played a ball barehanded off the wall in right field and his throw to third base­man Justin Turner got Castillo out. 
arizona tied the game 1-all on Nick ahmed’s home run off re­liever Pedro baez with two outs in the seventh. 
The dodgers led 1-0 on a.J. Ellis’ sacrifice to the catcher in the second. 
arizona starter Patrick Corbin gave up one run and six hits in six innings. The left-hander struck out one and walked one. 
hatcher allowed one run and two hits in two-thirds of an in­ning. he walked two and struck out none. 
MLB | TIgErS 8, PIraTES 2 
Justin Upton blasts home run in Tigers’ win 
Associated Press 
dETrOIT — When new Tigers general manager al avila signed Justin upton during the offsea­son to play left field and hit sec­ond, he had performances like Tuesday afternoon’s in mind. 
upton had four hits, includ­ing a first-inning home run into a camera platform above the center-field fence, and the detroit Tigers beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 8-2. 
upton entered batting .227 with 10 strikeouts in 22 at-bats, then raised his average to .333 with the 11th game of four hits or more in his big league career. according to Mlb’s Statcast system, the home run would have gone 451 feet had it landed unimpeded. 
“That’s probably a pitching wedge,” he joked, “a wedge or my 9-iron,dependingonconditions.” 
Miguel Cabrera and J.d. Martinez are the only other ac­tive players who have reached the camera platform. 
“We haven’t seen many of 

FOR SALE 
Bible For Sale: First Catholic Bible Printed in America by Mathew Carey, 1790. Very Rare. Full Brown Leather. Good Condition. Approximately 45 known copies. $30,000. Call for de­tails. 207-299-3962 
those,” Tigers manager brad ausmus said. “Miggy’s been out there and J.d., and Jose abreu came close with the White Sox. That’s all I can think of in two-plus years.” 
Martinez had his second career four-hit game, and Ian kinsler homered. The top five in detroit’s order were a combined 13 for 20 while driving in and scoring all eight runs. 
“We can play the small game, too, as you saw today,” upton said. “We hit a lot of singles, keep pressure on the pitchers and put together good at-bats. hopefully, we can keep doing it.” 
anibal Sanchez (2-0) gave up two runs, four hits and three walks in 5 2/3 innings, improving to 3-5 in eight starts against the Pirates. 
“I felt better late in the game than I did at the beginning,” said Sanchez, who missed part of spring training with triceps inflammation. “Everyone knows I’m working on my mechanics, and that puts pressure on me early in games.” 
Pittsburgh didn’t see any indi­cations Sanchez was struggling. 
“That was just a great game,” Matt Joyce said. “he didn’t put anything in the middle of the plate, and as much as we were grinding, we just couldn’t do any­thing against him.” 
Juan Nicasio (1-1) allowed four runs and six hits in three innings, matching his big league career high with five walks. he needed 94 pitches to get nine outs. 
“he obviously didn’t have any­thing out there,” Pirates manager Clint hurdle said. “If you can’t hit your spots against that lineup, you are going to get beat up in a hurry.” 
upton homered on Nicasio’s fourth pitch, Miguel Cabrera and Victor Martinez walked, and J.d. Martinez singled for a 2-0 lead. 
after Starling Marte cut the deficit to 4-2 with a two-run hom­er in the sixth, detroit opened a five-run lead in the bottom half when Victor Martinez hit a two-run double off former teammate kyle lobstein and then scored on 
J.d. Martinez’s double. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
live-in nanny. Email: info@greymat-
WANTED 
tersintl.com 
TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND Need a babysitter for Sep 9th eve family needs an energetic, outdoor-when Domer family in for a football loving, reliable gal to travel to beau-weekend. Contact info@greymat­tiful Jackson Hole WY from end of tersintl.com May/early June to early August as our 


SMC GOLF | TrINE SPrINg ClaSSIC 
Belles take second at weekend tournament 
By JOE EVERETT 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend, Saint Mary’s competed at the Trine Spring Classic down in angola, Indiana. although the second day of competition was cancelled due to poor weather conditions, the belles performed very well on Friday, finishing second place out of 13 teams with a team score of 336, edging division-II Ferris State, who placed third with 337 points. Juniors ali Mahoney and Courtney Carlson, sophomore kelsey Conkright, and freshman Taylor kehoe compiled the team for the belles, and posted scores of 81, 84, 85, and 86, respectively. Senior Sammie averill was the fifth scoring-eligible golfer for the belles and turned in an 87, while sophomore Isabella Speedon competed individually and shot a 91. head coach kim Moore, see­ing the belles outcompete some tough competition, was proud of her team’s performance and the overall outcome on Friday. 
“I was very pleased by my team’s performance the past weekend,” Moore said. “Just finishing, let alone placing 2nd, in the brutal conditions that we played in was a huge success.” 
With one weekend tourna­ment to go before Saint Mary’s competes NCaa automatic Qualifying Tournament, Moore sees her team is playing well but also expects them to keep improving. 
“My expectations for this team going forward is to only improve,” Moore said. “Now that we are able to get outside and practice on a consistent basis, I feel that our scores will get more consis­tent.  I have very high expecta­tions for this team going into our NCaa automatic Qualifying Tournament.” 
Mahoney, by finishing tied for fifth, made the all-Tournament Team while compiling a round-best three birdies. Moore pointed to her performance but also to those of her teammates behind her, emphasizing a complete team performance the belles had on Friday. 
“I felt that three players in particular really helped our team finish where we did - ali Mahoney…Courtney Carlson, who finished in the top 10, and kelsey Conkright, who finished in the top 20,” Moore said. “It was re­ally easy to lose focus that round, but I felt that all three of them really hung in there and played solid.” 
The belles return to the course next weekend when they travel to the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling on Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Joe Everett at             jeveret4@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL | adrIaN 6, SMC 5; SMC 13, adrIaN 5 
SMC splits postponed series with adrian 
spent the week practicing inside,” finish their game on Monday. the plate, going 3-for-3 with a run said. “We made a good adjustment 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
Sports Writer duncan said. “Our coaches want-duncan said the game plan go-scored. as a team. Our defense was pretty 
ed to make sure that we were still ing into the game hadn’t changed belles sophomore catcher kayla solid, which is what kept the game 
Saint Mary’s split its two-game staying upbeat and moving during since the postponement. raymer said her team’s ability to so close. Our pitchers did great.” set with adrian, as it dropped the this week to combat the fact that “Since we were the home team string hits together made the dif-The belles’ next game will be first game, 6-5, last Tuesday, be-we couldn’t be on the field. at first, in the first game, we were the visi-ference in the second game against against alma at Saint Joseph’s high fore winning the second game — we were all down about being in-tors in the second, and we were the bulldogs. School North Field on Wednesday which was started last Tuesday but side, but I definitely think we made aiming to score first and score of-“I think we needed to start at 3:30 p.m. postponed in the fifth inning due the best of it and worked hard do-ten,” duncan said. “We wanted stringing together hits sooner in to darkness and finished Monday ing drills and having intersquad our pitchers to have a dominant the game, which is what we did Contact Dominic Iannelli at 
— 13-5. competitions. On Friday, we even presence on the mound and the starting the second game,” raymer riannell@nd.edu 
In the first contest, the belles played dodgeball and handball to hitters to be decisive with their (11-10, 1-1 MIaa) jumped out to break up some of the monotony. I pitches so that we were making a quick lead, scoring two runs think the inside practice helped us solid contact. It’s really important in the bottom of the first frame. to refocus on the fundamentals so for us as a team to get ahead so that Sophomore shortstop and captain that we can come back this week we set the tone for the game.” Jamie young drew a walk, which and play hard and win these up-already leading 11-5 from the in-sophomore outfielder Cassie coming league competitions.” nings played the previous Tuesday, young followed up with a two-run Since the end of the game against the belles were able to finish the homer. The bulldogs (5-10, 1-3) re-the bulldogs was postponed, the contest in less than fifteen minutes. sponded immediately with a run belles have had their last five at-The final Saint Mary’s runs came in the top of the second frame and tempts at play postponed. This from a two-run homer by senior then took the lead with three runs included three attempts to com-third baseman kayla Chapman, over the next two innings. With plete the contest with adrian and giving the belles a 13-5 win over another two runs in the fifth in-previously scheduled games with the bulldogs. Chapman was a key ning, the bulldogs took a 6-2 lead Calvin and defiance. Jamie young bat for the belles throughout the into the bottom of the frame. said these postponements have entirety of the game, going 4-for-
In the bottom of the fifth, how-been frustrating but allowed the 4 with three rbIs and three runs, ever, the trio of Jamie young, se-team to return to the basics. including her fifth inning long nior outfielder Sarah Callis and after almost a week, Saint Mary’s ball. Sophomore second baseman sophomore outfielder Makenzie and adrian were finally able to kelsey richards was also perfect at duncan all reached base to give 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 
Saint Mary’s a golden opportunity: bases loaded with no outs. Cassie young then drew a walk, scor­ing a run. Two batters later, junior first-baseman and captain Caitlyn Migawa drove in a run on a sacri­fice fly to further narrow the gap to 6-4. 
Saint Mary’s held adrian score­less over the next two frames to give itself an opportunity to win the game in the bottom of the sev­enth inning. however, the belles were only able to pick up one more run before the end of the game, ul­timately falling 6-5. 
although the two teams started the second game of the double­header that evening, they would not finish it then. Midway through the contest, the umpires post­poned the game due to weather. as per MIaa conference rules, the game was to be played the next day — last Wednesday — at 5 p.m.; however, this was also postponed as the bad weather persisted. duncan said the postponement altered the team’s schedule over the next week . 
“due to this weather, we have 





PaId adVErTISEMENT 

McDaniel 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 
The good news for this Irish team, however, is they get 17 of their remaining 25 regular season games at home to close out the year, with weekend trips to Florida State and North Carolina the only remaining conference road games. 
With the schedule stacked in their favor to close out the season, the Irish should be able to focus more on winning baseball games and less on the stress of traveling all over the country. 
as of this week, Notre dame sits at No. 64 in the rPI ratings. and while this certainly isn’t a perfect indicator of future tournament success, it does tell us that Notre dame will likely have to earn its way into the field of 64 if it wants to play in the NCaa tournament and make a run at the College World Series. 
More good news: the Irish final­ly get to work junior third baseman kyle Fiala back into the fold after he had missed the last month with an injured hand. In just his second game back from injury Tuesday night against Chicago State, Fiala was 2-3 with a walk, an rbI and a run scored. 
In the next month and a half leading up to the start of the aCC tournament at the end of May, things will need to go right for Notre dame if it hopes to make a push into the postseason. 
hopefully with the South bend weather starting to turn in their favor, the Irish will actually be able to play their scheduled games on a regular basis and develop a rhythm in the second half of the season — a half significantly tilted in their favor both in terms of level of competition and getting to play at Frank Eck Stadium. 
They have already gotten through three of the best teams they will see all season in their trips to louisville and North Carolina State as well as the rain-shortened series against Miami. 
Now, with a favorable schedule, the benefit of playing at home, a healthy lineup and better playing conditions, the Irish will get to see what they are made of heading into the summer and their most important games of the year. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at  hmcdani1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 

Irish senior catcher Ricky Sanchez takes a swing during Notre Dame’s 6-3 win over Chicago State on Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 


the goal category for the first 
W Lax M Lax 
time all season. 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 
“For us to be successful [against Marquette] we’re danaher who have contribut-going to need to play disci­
defensive, steady and strong ed to these programs’ effec-plined and constantly make 
force as a team,” Fortunato tive and efficient defenses. plays all over the field,” doss 
said. “but I think that this ranked first and second na-said. 
year is a little bit different. tionally in goals-against av-The Irish will need to apply 
We still have our really strong erage, doss averages 6.39 and that discipline in their physi­
defense, but it anchors our of­danaher 6.54, respectively. cal play to their mental game 
fense and allows us to take a doss also ranks third in save as well. Just three days after 
little more risks, knowing that percentage (.603). taking on duke, Notre dame 
we have that strong defense The Irish head into has a quick turnaround with 
behind us. They can get the Wednesday’s game after this midweek matchup. 
ball back for us if we do turn holding an efficient duke of-“This is going to be a really 
it over. So I think it makes it fense to six goals Sunday — quick turnaround going from 
a lot easier knowing that you the 12th-ranked blue devils’ Sunday to Wednesday, so we 
have a good defense behind lowest goal total on the sea-haven’t really had any time to 
you, letting you take risks and son — to earn a tight aCC practice full-speed while pre­
go for it a little more. win, 8-6. The Irish also man-paring for Marquette,” doss 
“I think that practicing aged to hold No. 3 denver to a said. “also, this being only 
with them definitely helps season low in goals March 13, our second midweek game 
all of us, including myself, on while also shutting out Ohio of the year means that we’re 
gameday, especially when we State during the third quarter going to need to put some ex-
go up against other teams’ March 26 and No. 9 Syracuse tra time into getting into that 
top matchups. Coming from in the fourth period april 2. mindset that we’re used to for 
practice when you’ve spent last year before her success have really high expectations “The defense has been game day.” 
all week practicing against this year. Fortunato said for us on the field. playing outstanding all year, another challenge the Irish 
seven really strong defenders needing to live up to hype, “I think that everybody’s a and holding a really strong face heading into this after-
definitely helps on gameday.” whether it is as a freshman or little bit more mature, a little duke team to six goals was a noon is injuries. despite in-
Fortunato arrived at Notre as a junior, is something that more confident and has a bit big accomplishment for us,” juries to some key defensive 
dame as a highly-touted she is used to. more experience on the field. doss said. “We’ve had some players, the Irish have seen 
prospect from Northport “I think that there have having a lot of upperclass­guys get injured on that side the unexpected players step 
high School in New york, been big expectations since men on the field and on the of the field, but other players up to the plate, doss said. 
the same school that pro-coming in freshman year, but team who have been playing have really stepped up, and and on Sunday those team­
duced Notre dame’s all time there have been high expec-together for so long, we natu­the entire unit is working to-mates included freshmen 
leader in goals and points, tations for our whole team rally flow better together and gether very well right now. midfielder drew Schantz and 
Jillian byers. living up to the and all of our attackers,” trust each other that little bit “We just want to build on defender hugh Crance, who 
high expectations, Fortunato Fortunato said. “So I think more.” that against Marquette and helped shut down duke se­
impressed as a freshman, that, over the past years, Fortunato and No. 10 Notre keep making things really nior midfielder Myles Jones. 
winning Womenslax.com’s we’ve gotten really comfort-dame will next be in action on difficult for the opposing “We’ve had a couple guys go 
national rookie of the year able playing with each other, Saturday, when it hosts No. 13 offense.” down with various injuries, 
award, and has followed that and that’s definitely helped duke at arlotta Stadium. The Now, the impressive Notre so it’s just been a matter of 
up by making the 25-player us come out this year, build-game is set to begin at noon. dame defense meets its the next guy stepping up, and 
shortlist for the Tewaaraton ing on what we had last year. match in Marquette’s. In ad-they’ve all done a great job 
award, which is given each I think that this year we have Contact Daniel O’Boyle at dition to leading the coun-with that so far,” doss said. 
year to the nation’s top player, really good chemistry, and we doboyle1@nd.edu try in scoring defense, the “Their success and the win 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 
golden Eagles have pre-over duke should give them vented four of its nine op-confidence heading into this ponents this season from next game to keep making scoring more than five goals. plays for us.” Marquette’s defense even The Irish and golden Eagles shut down Villanova’s junior face off Wednesday at arlotta attack Jake Froccaro, who led Stadium at 4 p.m. the country with 3.88 goals per game entering the april Contact Kit Loughran at 2 contest, shutting him out of kloughr1@nd.edu 





in just his second game back 
Beachem Baseball 
and said he could feel the flow 
CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 CONTINuEd FrOM PagE 16 
of the game returning to him. “I feel like my timing has tournament, Coach brey 
position when there was al-been good. That’s usually brought up the idea of entering 
ready two outs. something that takes some my name in the Nba draft pro­
“you get one more hit in one time,” Fiala said. “Just seeing cess and after talking with my 
of those situations, ball falls pitches helps it. While I was family, I am excited about this 
in, and I think it’s a very dif-out, I was standing in on bull-opportunity,” beachem said in 
ferent-looking ball game.” pens occasionally, just doing a statement. “The process will 
Overall, the Irish went 5-for-anything I could so that my allow me to push my develop­
14 at the plate with two outs timing was back when I got in ment to another level and get 
but just 2-for-10 with runners the game. It’s been off a little a better idea of what the orga­
in scoring position. bit, but it’s getting there.” nizations in the Nba think of 
Still, aoki’s squad burst Junior catcher ryan lidge my abilities on the court at this 
out to an early lead thanks then grounded out to Willis to point in my career. 
to senior first baseman Zak score Shepski, but junior sec­brey said going through 
kutsulis, who smacked a pitch ond baseman Cavan biggio the Nba process will allow 
to right field in the bottom appeared to end the inning beachem to further his game, 
of the first that was knocked with a lazy pop up down whether he returns to Notre 
down by the wind and the left-field line. however, dame or keeps his name in the 
dropped in for a hit. Chicago Chicago State freshman left hat in May. 
State senior right fielder Chris fielder Jeremy Cole lost the “he finished the season on an 
hipchen dove for the ball but ball in the sun, and it hit off outstanding run and the ability 
missed it, allowing it to roll his glove and chest near the to go through this process will 
all the way to the wall and line, allowing Fiala to race be another step forward in his 
kutsulis to reach third stand-home. confidence as a player and as 
ing up. The Irish finished their a leader in our program,” brey 
It was kutsulis’s second scoring for the day in the third said. “This can really set him 
triple on the year, and he trot-when senior left fielder ricky up for a great finish to his col-
ted home midway through Sanchez started things off lege career or provide him the 
the next at-bat when Cougars with a single on a ground ball opportunity to play the game at 
freshman pitcher Josh Willis to the shortstop that he hus­its highest level.” this year’s draft. Jackson, who Just two Notre dame play-
buried a ball in the turf for a tled out. Sanchez then came Invitations to the Nba’s draft indicated he would hire an ers have been selected in the 
wild pitch. around to score when Vierling combine will be extended the agent when he declared March Nba draft before exhausting 
Willis was not the only lined one down the right-field first week of May, with the com-29, does not have further eli-their collegiate eligibility, both 
hurler struggling with control line for a triple, his first of the bine taking place the week of gibility at Notre dame. Senior of whom left following their 
early on though. Irish junior season. Vierling then tagged May 10 in Chicago. The Fort forward Zach auguste is also in junior seasons: Troy Murphy 
right-hander ryan Smoyer, up to score when Shepski flied Wayne, Indiana, native will contention for Nba teams this went 14th overall to the golden 
who missed his usual Friday out to right field. then have until May 25 to re-summer, with the big man’s State Warriors in 2001, while 
start last week against Miami Once Smoyer left the game, move his name from consider-22 double-doubles this season adrian dantley was selected 
(Fla.) due to a weather can-replaced by senior right­ation for the draft if he chooses likely to boost his stock. Jackson sixth by the buffalo braves 
cellation, walked three of the hander Nick McCarty, the to return to Notre dame. and auguste were named the in 1976. both Jackson and 
first four batters he faced but Cougars were able to claw beachem joins former Irish team’s most valuable players at beachem could join the two 
recovered to go three no-hit back to within three, getting guard demetrius Jackson as the team’s season-ending ban-ring of honor members in the 
innings and collect his third their first runs of the game underclassmen declaring for quet Monday night. elite club. 
win of the season, tied for in the top of the fifth. They best on the team. started the inning with three 
PaId adVErTISEMENT 
“he’d been struggling with straight singles to load the a few things, and we wanted bases and then grounded into to get him out there to work a 6-4-3 double play, scoring some stuff out,” aoki said of one, before singling again to Smoyer. “and I think, by and add another. large, he had a rough first in-Chicago State’s third run ning, but he did a nice job resulted from a walk, stolen of managing that. he’s got-base, ground ball and wild ta be better than that. The pitch from senior right-hand­plan is for him to pitch again er Joey Cresta, who followed this Sunday [against boston McCarty. College].” The Irish have now won five 
The Irish manufactured straight midweek games and three more runs in the bottom will have the chance to ex-of the second, as freshman tend that streak Wednesday right fielder Matt Vierling in a home contest against singled on a line drive up Valparaiso. The contest was the middle then advanced to originally scheduled for last second when sophomore left week but was postponed due fielder Jake Shepski walked. to inclement weather. 
both runners advanced a Notre dame has won its base when senior shortstop last four meetings with the lane richards laid down a Crusaders and will send se­sacrifice bunt down the third-nior left-hander Michael base line, and Vierling then hearne, who sports a perfect scored on an infield single 3-0 record and 3.18 Era, to the from junior third baseman mound. First pitch is sched­kyle Fiala. uled for 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck 
Fiala, who missed nearly a Stadium. month with a hand injury, fin­ished the game 2-for-3 at the Contact Greg Hadley at     plate with a walk, run and rbI ghadley@nd.edu 




ThE ObSErVEr | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2016 | NdSMCObSErVEr.COM 
BASEBALL | Nd 6, ChICagO STaTE 3 
Irish win by scoring solely in the first three innings 
By GREG HADLEY 
Senior Sports Writer 
It wasn’t quite a blowout or a cakewalk, but Notre dame was never seriously challenged in a 6-3 win over Chicago State on Tuesday night at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Cougars (7-24, 1-8 WaC) entered the game ranked 284th in the nation according to rPI ratings, Notre dame’s worst opponent of the season. but the Irish (17-12, 6-7 aCC) never pulled away after scor­ing all their runs in the first three innings, resulting in a score that made the game look much closer than it ac­tually was, according to Irish head coach Mik aoki. 
“We just didn’t seem to get the hit we needed to,” aoki said. “There were a couple of balls that I thought we hit fairly well when we had op­portunities for guys to score, but it always seemed like we were getting guys in scoring 
see baSEball PAGE 15 
 No place like home 

Notre Dame still 
has most of its 
home slate left 

Hunter McDaniel 
Sports Writer 
Following Tuesday night’s 6-3 win over Chicago State, Notre dame has played 29 total games. Just nine of those have taken place at home. 
That’s tough for any team to overcome, but it’s commonplace for teams who play in climates as unpredictable as South bend’s. 
In the last week alone, one game has been pushed back from last Wednesday to this one, while two have simply been cancelled. an argument could be made the Irish (17-12, 6-7 aCC) caught a break having to face No. 1 Miami only once instead of the scheduled three times. 
On the other hand, the Irish were also stripped of two of the games they get to host at Frank Eck Stadium this spring. Two fewer chances to hone their skills against top, live competition. Two fewer chances to don the Irish uniform in front of the home crowd. 
see McdaNIEl PAGE 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
beachem 
declares 
for draft 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre dame junior forward V.J. beachem declared for the Nba draft on Tuesday but will not hire an agent, a move that retains his NCaa eligibility for the 2016-17 season. 
under new rules instituted this year, players can declare for the draft and attend the draft combine without losing their eligibility, given the player hasn’t hired an agent. Irish head coach Mike brey said in a press release he pushed beachem to declare to gauge where he’s at with Nba scouts. 
“I really pushed for V.J. to take advantage of the new rules to get a better understanding of his fu­ture in professional basketball,” brey said in the release. 
beachem finished the season on a high, averaging 17.5 points in four NCaa tournament games en route to being named to the East regional’s all-tournament team. 
“after our run in the 
see bEaChEM PAGE 15 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Fortunato among the country’s best 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
When Notre dame la­crosse is mentioned, the first thing that usually comes to mind is defense. but al­though the Irish defensive unit is a strong one yet again this year, the offense has be­come a formidable unit in its own right. 
a large part of that comes down to the performance of junior attack Cortney Fortunato, who currently leads the aCC in points. Fortunato scored five goals and added two assists in Sunday’s 17-12 defeat to Northwestern, bringing her to 69 points for the sea­son. That puts her only four points behind longwood se­nior midfielder Sarah butler for the top mark in the na­tion and 13 points ahead of the next-highest aCC player, Syracuse senior attack kayla Treanor. although she has the opportunity to lead the nation in points, Fortunato said her individual statistics are not her main concern. 
“I think for any player, it’s always on the back of your mind, but it’s not a top pri­ority at all,” Fortunato said. “Playing with such good players surrounding me, I think we’re a pretty self­less offense. It’s really not on my mind. Coming and playing with such talented people around me, who are all so selfless and with good chemistry between us all, it just comes easy that all of us are getting points in games. I don’t think that everyone’s trying to get theirs at all; I think it just comes naturally to whoever gets on the end of it on the day.” 
Fortunato acknowledge that the team is still known mostly as a defensive pow­erhouse but said this has helped the offense come into its own as well. 
“I think that, histori­cally, we’ve been more of a 
see W laX PAGE 14 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Nd to host Marquette in defensive showdown 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
The nation’s two best defenses will duke it out Wednesday at arlotta Stadium when No. 1 Notre dame hosts No. 17 Marquette. 
both teams take a break from their respective confer­ence slates to put their de­fensive regimes to the test. The golden Eagles (8-1, 3-0 big East) boast the best scor­ing defense in the country with just 6.33 goals allowed per game, while the Irish (8­1, 3-0 aCC) stand just behind them in second with 6.56 goals allowed. 
“Marquette is a very solid team and is going to be a tough challenge for us,” ju­nior goalie Shane doss said. “They have some great long-poles and defensive middies, as well as a strong offense.” 
and it’s doss and golden Eagles junior goalie Jimmy 
see M laX PAGE 14 




