The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 111 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND community reacts to Laetare decision 
University faculty, students offer perspectives on bestowal of award on Biden, Boehner 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
when the university con­ferred an honorary degree to president Barack obama in 2009, members of the cam­pus community were quick to express their opinions on the controversial choice. now, notre dame students and faculty are once again debat­ing the religious and political implications of a university decision. 
notre dame will jointly award the laetare medal to vice president Joe Biden and former speaker of the house John Boehner at the 2016 commencement ceremony, the university announced in a press release on march 6. 
“in recognizing both men, notre dame is not endors­ing the policy positions of either, but celebrating two lives dedicated to keeping our democratic institutions working for the common good through dialogue fo­cused on the issues and re­sponsible compromise,” Jenkins said in the release. 
sophomore Jack Kill, one of 89 students who signed 
see medal PAGE 5 



notre dame confirms safety 
Observer Staff Report 
university and college ad­ministrators confirmed the safety of students partici­pating in study abroad pro­grams, following the Brussels attacks. Three explosions, two in the Brussels airport and one in a subway station, killed about 30 people and in­jured hundreds. The terrorist group isis later claimed re­sponsibility for the attacks. 
Tom guinan, associate vice president for administrative operations for notre dame international (ndi), said in an email the university has accounted for 421 of 433 stu­dents studying abroad. 
“[we] are waiting on con­firmation from the remain­ing students who are in asia and australia, and one in latin america. of the stu­dents with whom we con­firmed, none were in Brussels 
see Brussels PAGE 4 



University launches exchange program in Kyoto 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 
news writer 
notre dame signed an agreement with Kyoto university in Japan two weeks ago that will allow for the exchange of faculty and graduate students between notre dame’s department of chemistry and biochem­istry and Kyoto university’s institute for chemical research, Ken henderson, chair of the department of chemistry and biochemis­try, said. 
henderson said this ex­change program will be beneficial for faculty and graduate students at notre dame. 
“They will potentially have access to equipment and expertise that faculty do not have here, which could strengthen the re­search program,” he said. 
The partnership will also raise the international profile of notre dame, henderson said. 
“Kyoto is one of the best universities in the world, and of course, Japan is very strong in science and tech­nology,” he said. 
according to henderson, the exchange agreement is the most recent develop­ment in a two-year con­versation between the universities. 

see KyoTo PAGE 5 

Professor lectures on personal finance 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
Tuesday evening in deBartolo hall, carl ackermann, profes­sional specialist in the mendoza college of Business, gave the second lecture in a three-part series on personal finance. ackermann’s lectures focus on how students can best secure their financial future right out of college. 
ackermann began his talk with a brief summary of the pre­vious talk, which discussed the benefits of investing in mutual funds. 
“investing in mutual funds is such an outstanding way to invest because a stock mutual fund, for example, has many stocks, so if you buy into a stock mutual fund, you now own a piece of every stock that that mutual fund owns,” ackermann said. “[This] gives you instantly a widely diversified portfolio.” 
diversification of stocks is cru­cial in a portfolio, ackermann said. 
“if you buy a stock mutual fund, you should achieve about 
see acKermann PAGE 5 



news PAGE 2 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 hocKey PAGE 16 men’s BasKeTBall PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite Easter candy? 

Mikey Farren 
freshman 
carroll hall 
“peeps.” 
Erin Turley 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“Jellybeans.” 
Max Hammersmith 
freshman 
carroll hall 
“reese’s eggs.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Aly Sonnen 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“white chocolate easter eggs.” 
Nick Martinez 
freshman 
o’neill hall 
“reese’s chocolate bunny all the way.” 
Casey Kennedy 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“peeps.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Want your event included here? 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

Softball vs. Michigan Evening Mass Celebration of the Women’s Lacrosse Vespers 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators State Basilica of the Sacred Lord’s Passion vs. Syracuse Basilica of the Sacred 
(574)631-8839 Melissa Cook Stadium Heart Basilica of the Sacred Arlotta Stadium Heart 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Heart 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 7:15 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. 
Policies 

The Irish take on the Celebrate the Last 6:45 p.m. - 7:15 p.m. The Irish take on the Evening prayer 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre Spartans. Supper. Solemn liturgy.  Orange. service. dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
Film: “TOXI*City” Adoration in the Lady Stations of the Cross The Paschal Vigil Easter Sunday 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. DeBartolo Performing Chapel Basilica of the Sacred Mass Student Mass 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Arts Center Basilica of the Sacred Heart Basilica of the Sacred Basilica of the Sacred possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
8 p.m. - 10 p.m. Heart 7:15 p.m. - 8:15 p.m. Heart Heart 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, Narrative segments on 6:30 p.m. - 11 p.m. Self-guided prayer and Begins at 9 p.m. 9 p.m. - 10 p.m. 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not Hurricane Sandy. Personal prayer. reflection. Easter Vigil Mass. All students invited. necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. NEWS letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 

Lecturer examines hiring practices 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. their reputation could be on the line,” he i urge you to be as transparent as one can 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one By STEPHANIE  SNYDER 
semester. news writer said. be without placing yourself under peril.” 
The observer is published at: 

024 south dining hall even if a prospective employee were to rogers said that as negative as social me­
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices The student diversity Board’s social present themselves well during interviews, dia can be in the hiring process, social me­
posTmasTer 

send address corrections to: media committee at saint mary’s invit-rogers said the final decision may come dia can be positive and provide prospective 
The observer 

p.o. Box 779 ed the college’s own Business professor, down to social media. “This could be the employees with an advantage. 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-077 James rogers, to speak about the effect so-make or break point for you,” he said. “you have to drown the negative,” he 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 

all reproduction rights are reserved. cial media can have in a company’s hiring rogers said students should avoid three said. “Find the things that you are passion-process. pitfalls with respect to social media. ate about and use that to your advantage.” 

rogers introduced his discussion by The first is to avoid remaining friends sophomore business major, Kiersten challenging students to ask themselves a on social media with people who may tag lieurance, said rogers’ lecture changed single question before posting anything on you in questionable posts — unfriending the way she thought about social media. their social media: “what could possibly go someone on social media is not unfriend-“i didn’t really think there are positive 
News Sports 

rachel o’grady hunter mcdonald wrong?” ing them in real life, rogers said. ways to impact your social media that your megan valley manny deJesus 
according to rogers, over 90 percent of “you can’t have stuff of theirs tagged with job will see or that they would be interested 
Justine wang elizabeth greason 
employers recruit using info gathered from you. it spreads virally,” he said. in,” lieurance said. 
Graphics Scene 

social media networks. another pitfall to avoid is a boring or rogers recommended his students ac­
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 
“They care about the person with whom nonexistent online presence, rogers said. complish this by simply revealing their val-
Photo Viewpoint 

they’re about to associate,” rogers said. “The competitive process requires us to ues and strengths through social media. 
caitlyn Jordan Bianca almada 
in most states, he said, it is legal for an stand out in a positive way,” he said. “in the “get down to the core of what it means to employer to ask for a prospective employ-end, you want people to find someone who be a saint mary’s college student,” rogers ee’s social media passwords. rogers said is hirable.” said. “The values that it represents — un-
Corrections 

employers may do this even if it is not a pro-The final pitfall, according to rogers, is derstanding education, ability, passion, 
The observer regards itself as spective employee’s first job. having a tattoo as one of the first things a spirituality — bring those things forward a professional publication and 
“it really is about the rest of your life,” he potential employer sees on social media. in your social media activities.” strives for the highest standards 
said. “i know it sounds unfair and prejudi-rogers closed his talk with a reminder. 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
rogers said in an average company, the cial,” rogers said. “But maybe the employer “our expectation of realistic privacy on-
however, recognize that we will make 
cost of hiring an employee can be greater world isn’t going to be excited that this is the line is none,” he said. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
than $100,000. he asked students to put first thing they see about you. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so themselves in the employer’s shoes. “ … i’m not telling you to pretend to be Contact Stephanie Snyder at  
we can correct our error. “if they choose to associate with you, someone you’re not. They look for honesty. ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 


diversity director explores inclusion 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
eric love, director of staff diver­sity and inclusion, presented to leaders and volunteers from non­profit organizations Tuesday as part of the university’s nonprofit Breakfast series. The series, pre­sented by the university’s office of public affairs and the mendoza college of Business, is designed to help nonprofit organizations learn from human resource experts to better manage employees. 
love’s presentation focused on the benefits of diversity and how to better serve all constituents. 
“inclusion is what we do with diversity,” he said. “if we really value diversity, if we really think it’s important, that inclusion is so important. we can only get the benefits of diversity if we give each other a voice and allow them to speak and share their perspective. 
“so together, diversity and inclusion are policies and prac­tices of inclusion that promote understanding of cultural differ­ences and encourage cooperation across the boundaries of diverse co-workers.” 

The benefits of diversity, accord­ing to love, include enhanced crit­ical and complex thinking, greater academic and work success and “greater engagement in the life­long learning of understanding people and cultures in order to develop a more democratic com­munity and equitable society.” 
“when we start working with people who are different from us, we start to care about them, we care about their communities,” he said. 
The first step to becoming more inclusive, love said, is to focus on yourself. 
“i strongly believe awareness is the first step — the more com­fortable we are with ourselves, the more comfortable we are with other people,” he said. “if you know who you are, it doesn’t really matter who someone else is, be­cause you’re secure with yourself. you’re comfortable with whoever else someone might be.” 
when addressing organiza­tions, love said leaders should aspire to be “multiculturally competent.” 
“an organization is multicul­turally competent when its mem­bers, majority and minority, have knowledge of, respect for and the skills necessary to interact with people from other cultures, within an international and domestic context,” he said. 
when striving for multicultural competency, love said microag­gressions, which he defined as “brief and commonplace” indig­nities that communicate “hostile or negative slights or insults,” are a crucial part of communication to be aware of. 
“They are reminders that 
paid adverTisemenT 
recipients are not in the major­ity,” he said. “They can happen to women, to people of color, to peo­ple with disabilities and they add up to a pattern of exclusion. one microaggression is like a paper cut — it might sting a little bit, but ultimately it’s not that big of a deal. But multiple microaggressions ev­ery day, every week, over time can really start to add up.” 
while it is important to be inclu­sive, the fear of “saying something wrong” shouldn’t prevent conver­sations from happening or ques­tions from being asked, love said. 
“political correctness had no­ble intentions and it started to get us communicating in a more civil way,” he said. “But terminol­ogy changes and it can be hard to keep up. we all make mistakes; i’m the diversity guy and i make mistakes.” 
Contact Megan Valley at         mvalley@nd.edu 
Expert named Cottrell Scholar 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 
news writer 
dr. Kathryn haas, assistant professor of chemistry and phys­ics at saint mary’s, was named a 2016 cottrell scholar by the research corporation for science advancement in February. The cottrell scholar program awards $100,000 to 24 scientists to support research and teaching efforts, the program website stated. 
The money from the award will allow her to hire undergradu­ate students to work during the summer, providing them with re­search opportunities, haas said. 
“it’ll allow me to purchase equipment and materials that i need — chemistry costs a lot of money. it’ll also help me to travel and to pay for students to travel as well,” she said. 
haas said receiving the award has been “very validating.” 
“it’s amazing to be part of this community of people that are fo­cused on science education,” she said. “i have access to some amaz­ing mentors and networks that i would never have had without this recognition. i feel like i am part of a community that’s really chang­ing science education in the world, and i’m doing it from saint mary’s college. we’re doing a lot of good things here, and it’s finally bring­ing light to that, so it feels really good.” 
haas said her research focuses on copper’s interaction with the human body. 
“i studied copper in graduate school, and my background is in studying how metals interact with biological systems, particularly how they affect human health,” haas said. “copper is an essential element, and i just kind of fell in love with it. i’ve been studying it ever since.” 
haas said she is looking for­ward to expanding her research and sharing her findings with the public. 
“we will publish our finding in journals,” haas said. “copper is involved with diseases, antibiotics and it’s essential for every single cell to live. so, we are trying to un­derstand how our body works.” 
haas said she hopes her con­tinued research will shed light on how the body’s cells and proteins work to handle copper. 
“copper has broader appli­cations in things, like under­standing antibiotic activity and understanding neurodegenera­tive diseases, but also in any kind of genetic disorder that is related to the misdistribution of copper,” she said. 
Contact Sydney Enlow at  senlow01@saintmary.edu              




Fordham professor lectures on Aquinas, morality of God 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 
news writer 
Fr. Brian davies, a distin­guished professor of philos­ophy at Fordham university, has dedicated his academic career to studying and writ­ing about the philosophy of religion, and has focused on the work of Thomas aquinas. Fr. davies ex­plored the question of why, if god is all powerful and morally good, there is evil present in the world in a lecture held Tuesday night at rice commons 
The lecture focused on aquinas’s rejection of the argument against the exis­tence of god. according to aquinas, god is not a mor­ally good agent, despite popular belief. 
“aquinas views that god should not be thought of as a moral agent in the first place, meaning that god should not be thought of as something either mor­ally good or morally bad,” davies said. “aquinas main­tains that we do not know what god is … god is strict­ly non-classifiable.” 
virtues are to only be as­sociated with human be­ings, not god, davies said. 
“aquinas thinks of virtues 
Brussels 
conTinued From page 1 
this morning, and we have no reason to believe that the students who have yet to con­firm are or were in Brussels,” he said. 
in an email to students currently studying abroad, guinan said, students are ad­vised to not travel to Belgium until further notice. 
“The u.s. embassy in Brussels has issued this state­ment on the attacks, which includes a level 4 threat rat­ing,” he said. 
alice siqin yang, assistant director for global education at saint mary’s center for intercultural leadership (cwil), said in an email the college confirmed the safety of all students studying in europe. 
“we contacted our rome and ireland program onsite directors. They told us all the students there are fine. we have also contacted the stu­dents in oxford (uK), spain as what people need in or­der to flourish as human beings,” davies said. “so he doesn’t think of god as having the cardinal virtues … aquinas doesn’t think of god as being actually or possible virtuous.” 

according to davies, aquinas believes it is dif­ficult to attribute good­ness to specific things, 
“Aquinas thinks of virtues as what people need in order to flourish as humans beings. So he doesn’t think of God as having the cardinal virtues ... Aquinas doesn’t think of God as being actually or possibly virtuous.” 
Fr. Brian Davies 
professor of philosophy 
Fordham University 

especially god, because the idea of goodness is concept-dependent. 
and morocco. all of them replied to our emergency response request email,” she said. “spanish studies abroad, the provider of our spain program, also com­municated with us regarding the situation of our students in sevilla. one nd student and one holy cross student are attending saint mary’s programs. we have already informed the two institu­tions of the situation of their students. 
“The college offers hTh international insurance for every study abroad student. hTh offered some updates on the situation in Brussels today. all the [study abroad] participants are enrolled in the state department smart Traveler enrollment program. we also received updates from overseas security advisory council. we are monitoring the situa­tion ” 
Editors Note: Saint Mary’s Editor Nicole Caratas contrib­uted to this story. 
“’good’ does not signify some distinct property had by all good things,” davies said. “For him, the meaning of good is noun-dependent. There are good all sorts of things, but what makes them good make them dif­ferent from kind to kind 
— goodness is, in a sense, relative. aquinas thinks that creaturely goodness must somehow reflect what god is. 
“aquinas doesn’t think of god as containing crea­turely goodness, but rather, goodness in creatures is a dim reflection of what ex­ists simply and undivided­ly in god”. 
The same argument ap­plies to the subject of evil, according to davies. like 
goodness, aquinas does not view evil as something of substance. 
“many things are gener­ally in a bad way and he thinks that the sentence ‘evil exists’ makes sense,” he said. “on the other hand, he doesn’t think of evil as a substance. since aquinas thinks that victims of evil suffering certainly exist, he takes it for granted that god is causally accounted for their being victims of evil suffering. he does not think that the evil in evil suffered is any kind of sub­stance — there is only evil suffered only inasmuch there is a lack of goodness, and aquinas does not think a lack of goodness is some­thing ‘create-able’.” 
aquinas believed there is a problem in the world, but the problem stemmed from 
“‘Good’ does not signify some distinct property had by all good things.” 
Fr. Brian Davies 
professor of philosophy 
Fordham University 
a lack of goodness and obli­gation, rather the existence of evil, davies said. 
“aquinas recognizes that there being something to be called the problem of evil, is rather a problem of why god has not created more good­ness,” davies said. “however, aquinas does not believe that god has an obligation to cre­ate more goodness any more than god has an obligation to create at all.” 
Contact Sydney Enlow at senlow01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
Kyoto 
conTinued From page 1 
“around two years ago, a representative of notre dame international medi­ated and signed a memo­randum of understanding with Kyoto university,” henderson said. “so basi­cally, that is an agreement saying that we are interested in developing partnerships 
— academic partnerships, undergraduate partnerships, research partnerships.” 
The recent agreement rep­resents the second memo­randum between the two universities, he said. 
“so this [second memoran­dum] is basically saying that our department — chemis­try and biochemistry — and [Kyoto’s] institute ... will work together on things like research programs, joint seminars, workshops, a fac­ulty exchange and some more things for graduate students,” henderson said. 
an additional benefit of the partnership is that notre dame researchers are in­vited to Kyoto university’s international partnership conference, henderson said. 
“we are now one of those who come every two years to be a part of the symposium,” he said. “and it is quite a pres­tigious group of people to be around.be a part of the sym­posium,” he said. 
Contact Sarah Cate Baker at sbaker6@nd.edu 




Ackermann 
conTinued From page 1 
the same expected return as if you buy just a few stocks — but since when you buy a stock mu­tual fund, you hold a widely diversified portfolio of stocks. you achieve same expected re­turn at dramatically lower risk,” ackermann said. 
Though students are young, ackemann said it is important for them to understand 401(b) and 401(k) plans. 
“you contribute an amount [of money] to one of these plans,” he said. “it’s taken right out of your paychec,k so you don’t even see it, and your employer often matches this contribution.” 
ackermann said these funds provide benefits to people who maintain them, as the govern­
“If you buy a stock mutual fund, you should achieve about the same expected return as if youbuy just a few stocks. .” 
Carl Ackermann 
professional specialist 
finance 
ment gives large tax breaks to those holding these funds. however, these funds have been largely ignored by many americans, de­spite the funds’ ability to appreci­ate in value, providing a safety net 
paid adverTisemenT 

for retirement. 
“Financial advisors often sug­gest that 110 minus your age should be the percentage you put in stock index funds, with the rest in a u.s. Bond index,” he said, “within the stock index portion, they recommend that you should have 60% in u.s. stock index funds and 40% in international index funds.” 
There are two other types of investments that one could make in order to ensure their financial security, the first of these being an emergency fund, acvkermann said. 
“Take six months of your fam­ily’s living expenses and put it in a bank savings account that has a competitive interest rate, so if you lose your job or get sick, you have funds to live off of,” ackermann said. 
The other investment that ackermann suggested as a way to ensure financial security is a roth ira, if it was within the investor’s means. 
“if you still have money left over, you’re going to want to look into something called a roth ira 
— a roth ira is an individual re­tirement plan that works a lot like a company retirement plan, ex­cept there is no company match,” ackermann said. 
These roth iras have numer­ous benefits, he said. 
“There is no taxation along the way, accumulation continues to accelerate — also, you can take your money out later, completely tax-free,” ackermann said. 
Being in control of one’s financ­es is not only important for one’s financial stability, but allows one to be able to devote their time to worthwhile causes, ackermann said. 
“Freely volunteering your time, contributing to charities, helping people, traveling — imagine do­ing all of this good for society in what many would consider the prime ages of their life,” he said 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

Medal 
conTinued From page 1 
an observer viewpoint ob­jecting to the university’s decision, said he was disap­pointed when the honorees were announced. 
“The laetare medal should be an award that we grant to individuals who have performed exemplary actions to further or help the church and society,” he said. “unfortunately, as we well know in american soci­ety, it’s very hard to further both your country and your church.” 
senior Janelle wanzek, president of notre dame right to life, said she thinks awarding Biden and Boehner with the medal conflicts with some of the university’s core catholic values. 
“our club’s mission state­ment states that we’re work­ing to promote and uphold the sanctity of all human life from conception until natural death, in the spirit of the catholic church,” she said. “we believe that through awarding this catholic medal, notre dame is not in line with upholding the teachings of the catholic church.” 
during his time in office, Biden has supported abor­tion, capital punishment and embryonic stem cell re­search, junior emily Burns, vice president of events for notre dame right to life, said. Boehner has also sup­ported the death penalty in certain cases, she said. 
“The medal itself that’s given to the recipients bears the inscription that trans­lates to ‘truth is mighty, and it shall prevail,’” Burns said. “The question that we’re asking as a club … is how can we bestow the most prestigious award for catholics in america to leaders who fail to protect the most vulnerable, which is a basic element of justice and a fundamental truth of the catholic faith?” 

Fr. Bill miscamble, profes­sor of history, said he agrees with a statement released by Fort wayne-south Bend Bishop Kevin rhoades that criticized the university’s decision. 
“By conferring the award on Biden, notre dame mis­uses the laetare medal, which is meant to honor catholics for their genu­ine and faith-inspired ac­complishments, in order to promote an ill-conceived political agenda,” he said in an email. 
other members of the notre dame community said they support the selec­tion of Biden and Boehner as joint honorees. The de­cision makes a statement about political unity, se­nior michelle mccarthy, co-president of college democrats, said. 
“i think it’s an interesting choice because i don’t think that catholicism maps out neatly onto either one of these parties,” she said. “i think that we could make an argument that former speaker Boehner has not done enough to promote fighting climate change, as the pope has talked about, or pushing through immi­gration reform, allowing us to provide preferential op­tions for the poor.” 
Junior gracie watkins, the other co-president of college democrats, noted the importance of a current vice president and a former speaker of the house tak­ing the time to visit notre dame’s campus. 
“notre dame is a serious university and is taken as such in our nation’s highest offices. we should be proud, not dismayed, at the news of the joint award,” she said. 
college republicans de­clined to comment on the matter. 
david campbell, political science department chair, said he thinks the intent of the administration should be taken at face value. 
“when Fr. Jenkins and his office says that theuniversity wants to acknowledge civil­ity and discourse, they want to acknowledge perspec­tives and viewpoints,” he said. “They want to provide a venue where people who disagree can come together and demonstrate there’s a greater cause than your own partisan position. 
“i think that’s the state­ment that the university is making. and i think that is all for the good, both at notre dame and for those who might be paying atten­tion beyond notre dame.” 
campbell said he was pleased to see notre dame recognize individuals in public life and elected office, something he said has not been done yet since obama spoke in 2009. 
“i think it’s perfectly ap­propriate for the university to recognize the vice presi­dent’s service to the coun­try,” he said. “i also think it is appropriate to recognize the former speaker of the house, just on the basic principle that these are people who have held important posi­tions, have done good work 
— who have put themselves out there in a way that many choose not to in their lives.” 
The decision to award the laetare medal to Biden and Boehner was a bold one, John duffy, associate professor of english, said. however, it sends the mes­sage that notre dame is con­cerned with the condition of public discourse, he said. 
“i think it’s a good deci­sion, and i hope it sends a message to the students of notre dame, first of all, and perhaps beyond notre dame about the importance the university places on the qualities of engagement, generosity, and tolerance, especially when dealing with those people whose be­liefs and values are different from our own,” duffy said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 



The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

design thinking for all 
Lauren Weldon 
graphic designer 

The book, “imagine, design, create,” by the design soft­ware company autodesk, provides what i believe is the most comprehensive definition of design: “even with all the dramatic changes being wrought by technology, design remains, and likely always will be, a fundamentally human endeavor, fueled by the insights, ideas, passions, and talents of people in pursuit of progress.” 
since the earliest developments of tools to do tasks more effectively than bare hands, to the development of machines in the industrial revolution, design is a way to answer or anticipate human needs. one of the biggest changes dur­ing the last century has been the transition from answer to anticipate; our consumer society creates a demand for inno­vation of goods and environmental concerns have created a demand for eco-mindful design for the future. 
This begs the question: “what is good design?” over the last 20 years, since the rise of the internet era and the ability to research and compare different products quickly, the bar has elevated. it is no longer enough to be clever, now design must be thoughtful. it must consider, anticipate and analyze as never before, taking into account multiple human needs. it must factor in all the variables that can influence how a design will perform (or fail) once it is exposed to real-world pressures. 
we are now expecting good design to know the unknown and to understand what we need, though we may not realize we need it yet. we want design to do all this and, oh by the way, make it all affordable, functional, scalable, sustainable and, of course, aesthetically beautiful. 
so what is the role of a designer? a designer must be an interdisciplinary thinker who considers artistry, technol­ogy, social changes and consequences, both of the past and future. designers’ roles in society are only growing and the skills needed to be a good designer are becoming more tech­nical and specified. 
so where do we find these designers? The ones who will design for the needs of the soon-to-be retiring Baby Boomers and gen y-ers alike, who will anticipate ecological challeng­es, who will solve medical mysteries and save lives? 
They are in classrooms. Their mothers and fathers may still be packing their lunches and taking them to fill-in-the­blank practice, lesson, rehearsal or the big game. 
This brings me to the importance of design education at the primary and intermediate level. The current core curric­ulum focuses on learning facts about many classic subjects but it does not teach how to solve problems. average history classes will speak of the past, good ones will speak of cur­rent world problems, but what about history’s implications in the future? one growing curriculum that i believe should be essential to the core of modern education is a concept called design thinking. design thinking at a rudimentary level entails “empathizing, defining, ideating, prototyping and testing.” 
one may feel at first that this process is limited to con­sumer design projects or architectural studies, but it is really about how people interact with objects, spaces, processes and each other. in this way, it can be applied to nearly all human interactions and should be taught at a simplified level to even the youngest of children. much funding goes towards teaching young children how to respond to hurt feelings or how to respectfully attain an end goal; all of these can be solved with the application of the design thinking process. 
The new generation, if armed with this reactive and re­sponsive thought process, would be better prepared for everything from negotiating peace, designing for people, solving geopolitical conflicts, reconsidering urban planning and even just getting along on the playground. 
Contact Lauren Weldon at lweldon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Voices on China policy 
last october, the student body received an email from university president Fr. John Jenkins announcing significant changes to the “Freedom of association” policy. 
The original policy stipulated, “notre dame licensed products [could not] be manufactured in countries lacking a legal right for workers to organize and form independent labor unions of their own choosing.” 
china was by far the largest and most signifi­cant of the countries precluded from manufac­turing notre dame products under this policy, leading to policy’s colloquial name of the “china policy.” 
in his october communication, Jenkins noted the university would be moving forward with a pilot program in china. a small num­ber of factories assessed by the university and verité, an independent labor rights nonprofit, were allowed to begin production. 
These assessments were done based upon the degree of worker participation, “as repre­sented by 71 different criteria, meant to mea­sure worker rights traditionally protected by freedom of association.” upon the suggestion of the notre dame community, verité has also assessed factories in countries in which notre dame has already manufactured licensed goods. 
one of the recommendations approved by Jenkins called for “a forum for continuing cam­pus participation and feedback, including the establishment of a student subcommittee to the worker participation committee.” 
after seeing this recommendation, a group of students who had been following the issue united to form the student worker participation committee (swpc) to fulfill this role. 
The proposal, drafted by the swpc and approved by executive vice president John affleck-graves, brings together various student organizations, from the student international Business council to the progressive student alliance to the undergraduate student government and graduate student unions. altogether, nine student organizations have a permanent seat on the student subcommittee, with four “open academic positions” filled by application. 
The swpc is dedicated to providing a critical and informed voice to guide the administra­tion’s discussion of this policy, keeping the student body as informed as possible and en­suring the voices of all concerned students are heard. 
To reach every student who wishes to have a voice, we will provide forums for feedback from the community, including a town hall meeting wednesday, april 13 at 7:30 p.m. in the geddes hall coffeehouse. 

if you would like to send questions or feed­back directly to us at any time, message the notre dame student worker participation committee page on Facebook, which you can also follow for updates on the policy and re­lated events. 
if you feel strongly, submit your own letters to the editor so the debate remains open and accessible. 
Finally, while applications are closed for this year, you can stay engaged and apply for an open academic position on the committee next spring. 
your lively engagement will be invaluable as we work with university leaders to craft a path forward that is open to emerging global mar­kets, but grounded in the catholic traditions of respect for human dignity and the dignity of work. 
Bryan Ricketts, Chairman 
student government 
Matthew Caponigro, Secretary 
open academic position 
Skyler Hughes 
progressive student alliance 
Devon Roura 

student international Business council 
Julie Mardini 
higgins labor studies program 
Samuel Cho 
diversity council 
Niko Porter 
human rights nd 
Craig Iffland 
graduate student union 
Lauren Nottoli 
student Bar association 
Alex Arnold 
open academic position 
Hannah O’Brien 
open academic position 
Madeline Inglis 
open academic position 
Clara Yang 
open academic position 
Yuchen Zou 
open academic position 



The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

Preventing crime in the Catholic Church 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

investigating theft and other irregularities in corpo­rations often starts with an analytical method known as the fraud triangle. This method examines three classic elements of criminal activity: opportunity, pres­sure/motivation and rationalization. 
corporations typically claim that opportunity is the element over which they have the most control. accordingly, companies focus on limiting opportu­nities for crime with measures such as heightened security. 
Businesses often assume pressure and motivation are beyond their control and characterize financial pressures, such as high medical bills, as personal mat­ters. individual rationalizations may include a bonus that was expected but not received or payback for a poor work environment. in fact, the focus on aggres­sive short-term earnings targets may create the very pressure that could drive people to consider criminal options. 
companies that operate under realistic market conditions, emphasizing sustainable growth and em­ployee well-being, reduce pressures that skew behavior towards crime. competent and trusted companies apply lessons learned to detect illegal behaviors, shut them down in their early stages and implement addi­tional controls and structural changes to limit further damage. 
The pedophile priest scandals, as detailed in the Boston globe’s “spotlight” investigation, and the recent grand jury report on the diocese of altoona-Johnstown, illustrate extreme examples of the fraud triangle run amok. in the altoona-Johnstown cases, more than 50 priests and other church employees molested hundreds of children over four decades in the central pennsylvania diocese. in many cases, their superiors knew of the abuses but did not remove the priests or notify law enforcement. 
if we analyze the crimes occurring here on at least two levels, then perhaps we can put ongoing processes in place to make sure this cannot occur again, at least not on such a rampant scale. with respect to individual priests and employees, the pressure or motivation to commit crimes against children is of a personal nature, but it may be aggravated by factors unique to these actors. celibacy and sexual development truncated by entry into a seminary may contribute to an individual treating sex with a minor as acceptable behavior, but much more institutional input is likely involved. 
in his differential association theory, criminolo­gist edwin sutherland suggested that except for rare circumstances, criminals are not born. people learn criminal behavior from others through communica­tion and example. sutherland found that people learn criminal behavior in intimate personal groups and this education includes techniques of committing the crime and motives, drives, rationalizations and atti­tudes that support the crime. can the very structure of clerical training and the church hierarchy’s response to crimes against children actually work toward nur­turing criminal behavior? 
Terminology is critical in assessing the church’s role in this matter. sexual contact with children, from fon­dling to rape, are criminal actions and not solely “sins” (though they indeed are sins, of the most grievous and mortal type). 
The proper response is to handle these events as crimes and not assume recourse to the confessional and shuttling the offenders to new parishes with fresh victims offers anything except incentive for the next of­fender. once church officials know of an alleged crime, any response short of reporting the event to the proper law enforcement authorities may also constitute a criminal action. 
in investigations of corporate crimes, special empha­sis is given to high-ranking executives, characterized as politically exposed persons (peps), individuals with prominent public functions often seen as the “face” of an organization. peps generally present higher risk for involvement in corruption based on the nature of their positions and potential influence. similarly, the pedo­phile priest cannot move himself from parish to parish, but the facilitator of such actions likely sits in a chair of high authority. 
in the altoona-Johnstown cases, Bishop Joseph adamec, former leader of the diocese, learned of al­legations against one serial pedophile in 2009, but adamec and his successor, Bishop mark l. Bartchak, kept the perpetrator on as a pastor until shortly before his arrest in 2014. They followed the tradition set by previous Bishop James hogan, who from 1966 to 1986 repeatedly persuaded police and prosecutors to drop criminal cases against priests, failed to discipline abusers and relocated predatory priests where they could molest again. 

last year, pope Francis called for the creation of a tri­bunal to judge bishops accused of negligence, but the vatican has yet to act on this. recently, the pope said bishops who kept abusive priests in ministry should resign. while we applaud the pope’s focus in going af­ter the peps who place public relations wins above the well-being of their flocks, much more needs to be done on an ongoing basis to identify criminals who prey on children and subject them to the judicial system. 
with respect to restitution, legislation has been stuck for years in committee in the pennsylvania legislature to abolish the statute of limitations in civil cases in­volving child abuse, and a proposed bill would create a special, two-year window allowing past victims to sue the church. ultimately, federal legislation may be required to permit compensation for victims facing a patchwork of state laws. 
These court and legislative actions may cast a harsh light on church hierarchy and increase scrutiny of clerical training and the effects of celibacy on the all-male priesthood. honest assessment of any institution whose goal it is to protect those entrusted to its care should be welcomed as a requirement for its continued existence. when pressure to maintain reputation be­comes the overarching rationalization and motivation for official actions, all that remains is opportunity for criminal behavior to be hidden or excused. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Build bridges, not walls 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

pope Francis’ encyclical, “laudato si’,” was the subject of widespread controversy weeks before it was even published in may 2015. in the time leading up to its release, presidential candidates, political pundits and even university president Fr. John Jenkins made statements on the matter. 
The key difference between Jenkins’ commentary and that of various political figures, however, was what members of the catholic church and all citizens of the world should take away from the pope’s letter. 
prominent catholic politicians such as Jeb Bush and rick santorum stated their disagreement with Francis and refused to integrate his thoughts on care for creation into their political decisions. The pope was heavily criticized by many for going too deep into the political realm with his encyclical. 
in an op-ed for the chicago Tribune, Jenkins as­serted that this line of thinking was erroneous. Francis, he wrote, was “not out to declare a side but to challenge the consciences of all of us.” if people from either political party were seeking for the pope to affirm or oppose their policies, they were missing the point of the encyclical. 
Jenkins ended his op-ed by stating, “The immedi­ate question may not be whether or not we agree with the letter. it may be what kind of people we have to become to hear what the pope is trying to tell us.” 
The university’s decision to jointly award vice president Joe Biden and former speaker of the house John Boehner with the laetare medal is a challenge to our notre dame community to rise above the very same partisan bickering and hostile discourse that accompanied the publication of “laudato si’.” 
The statement released by the university shared that by choosing to award both men the medal, notre dame did not endorse the policy positions of either. instead, it is meant to celebrate “two lives dedicated to keeping our democratic institutions working for the common good.” 
recently, some have remarked that Biden is unfit to receive the laetare medal because he has a record of supporting pro-choice legislation. They argue that this is contrary to church teaching on the dignity of human life and an award considered to be the highest honor for an american catholic ought to be reserved for someone who has performed “real service to the church in this country.” 
For those of us who view Biden in a favorable light, it is tempting to turn the same critical eye to Boehner’s policies and scrutinize the ways his actions while in public office may have been contradictory to church teaching. doing so, however, would mean we too have missed the point of what Jenkins and the university are trying to communicate to us. 
striving to be loyal to a political party, ideology or constituency are worthy goals. Be that as it may, there comes a time when one must rise above partisan po­litical conflict and pursue the common good. 
Just as Biden and Boehner sought to do in their careers, we have also been challenged to do so in our own lives. it does no good to argue about the ways in which Biden and Boehner have or have not incorpo­rated church teaching into their policy. 

exchanging harsh words or calling one another “murderers” or “hypocrites” does nothing but harm our notre dame community and the discussions we have on critical issues facing our world today. 
Francis gave a homily in 2014, where he discussed the need for people to “build bridges of dialogue, not walls of resentment.” allowing the discussion on awarding the laetare medal to Biden and Boehner to turn into a blame-filled political circus only supports the construction of such walls. 
By honoring both men with this award, notre dame has presented us with the opportunity to foster constructive dialogue on how we can all learn to rise above differences amongst one another to work for the common good and better live out the principles of our faith. 
so let the first among us who is without sin or flaws, who is a perfect catholic, be the first to throw a meta­phorical stone and criticize the religious devotion of others. until then, the rest of us will be busy building bridges, not walls. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. She lives in Lewis Hall and studies political science with a minor in international  development studies. She can be reached at  ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


By NORA McGREEVY 
scene writer 

in the 1986 comedy “Ferris Bueller’s day off,” the charming Ferris Bueller (matthew Broderick) is a high school senior who plays hooky on a beautiful spring day. he takes his girlfriend sloane (mia sara) and his friend cameron (alan ruck) along for the ride, and the trio spend a day adventuring through chicago. in one iconic scene, the kids visit the art institute of chicago: they stare intently at paintings, link arms with a tour group of small children and jokingly mimic the pose of rodin’s im­pressive sculpture “portrait of Balzac.” 
The museum scene is a lovingly-craft­ed, two-minute-long sequence that con­trasts directly with the rest of the movie 
— whereas the scenes directly before and after are action-packed, the still shots of various paintings, ethereal mu­sic and total absence of dialogue within the marble walls of the institute create a sense of intimate calm. 
although short, this scene had such an impact on the image of the museum that, while visiting the art institute with a group of notre dame students last sunday, our tour guide was only 10 minutes or so into her spiel when she mentioned the film. she laughed as she 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

i have had over a week now to settle in, my spring break and midterms are offi­cially over with and the monotony of rou­tine has found its place again somewhere between my morning and afternoon cups of coffee. 
don’t get me wrong, i like structure and as my computer’s calendar begins to satu­rate with color-coded meetings and ac­tivities, i can admit to feeling a satisfying sense of order. yet, while my complacency with the mundane is something i practice with pride, it is also the reason i find anna meredith’s assault-on-the-senses debut album so thrilling. with its chaotic bounc­ing from classical to electronic with the rigor of and fervency of mike Brey’s post-basket clapping hands, “varmints” is a welcomed reprieve to the mid-semester humdrum. 
meredith is no stranger to breaking the norm. everything about the scottish-born producer and composer’s career screams eccentricity; meredith has had prolific work composing with the BBc, provided described the numerous questions she’d received over the years about the film, calling the museum’s decision to allow hughes to film there the “best public relations move the institute had ever made.” 
our group consisted of freshman and senior notre dame students, with nearly every dorm and major represented. The scheduled, two-hour tour took us on a brief survey of some of the art institute’s highlights, including the american wing, the modern and contemporary wings and the hallmark impressionist collections that the museum is so fa­mous for (and we saw many of the works featured in “Bueller” along the way). 
some highlights included the re­cently opened edlis/neeson collection of contemporary art, featuring new­ly-acquired works by andy warhol and roy lichtenstein. we also got the chance to take in marc chagall’s “white crucifixion,” just returned from its over­seas visit to Florence where it met with pope Francis. The painting, which de­picts christ on the cross and mixes both christian and Jewish symbolism, is pope Francis’ favorite. 
additionally, a few of the students on our trip enrolled in an art history course had the special privilege of viewing the current exhibit “van gogh’s Bedrooms,” 
the music for an entire opera and toured with the likes of James Blake as well as The new puritans. in “varmints,” the 37-year­old pulls divine inspiration from this batch of diverse musical experiences, creating 2016’s most sonically-gripping album. 
opening track “nautilus” pleasantly welcomes the listener with a beautifully vivid horn arrangement before an im­posing brass crescendo builds behind ominous synths and mottled reverbs. The transition is almost scary, evoking daunt­ing childhood fears like that of an evil disney villain. “nautilus” unabashedly pronounces the vastness of meredith’s “varmints” and what follows builds in ev­ery direction, all while maintaining the same ambition as the opening track. 
For the many readers not well versed in meredith’s classical/experimental/elec­tronic genre, the pop tracks may be an in­stant draw. “Taken,” a starkly contrasting follow-up to the intriguing “nautilus,” is a splendidly uplifting ditty featuring glit­tery synths, harmonized male/female vo­cals and a chorus to rival even that of the most pronounced pop tracks. poppy vo­cals also shine on the album’s fourth track which includes 36 of vincent van gogh’s original works, letters and sketches. The exhibit was jam-packed — we visited at peak traffic hours, a sunday afternoon — but the paintings and narrative structure of the exhibit were reportedly excellent. 
visiting the institute demands that you, the visitor, engage intellectually. The museum houses a staggeringly abundant and wide-ranging collection; two hours spent in the walls of the mu­seum barely allows you to scratch the surface. yet within our relatively short visit, each person found something that drew them in. our tour guide did an ex­cellent job of casting the various works we viewed in an interdisciplinary lens, tying in einstein’s theory of relativity to our discussion of “portrait of daniel­henry Kahnweiler” by pablo picasso and explaining the conservative ideology be­hind “american gothic” by grant wood. 
some students discovered salvador dali for the first time, another person fell in love with “nighthawks” by edward hopper. a universal favorite was the ex­tensive, world-renowned impressionist wing, especially the rooms upon rooms of scenes by claude monet, pierre-august renoir and their contemporaries. simply being in the presence of the paintings feels a bit like meditating. 
The short clip in “Bueller” pays 
“something helpful” as airy falsettos dance to shimmering bells and bouncing synths. But the pop is only the draw. as the album progresses, meredith presents pro­voking soundscapes, combining a myriad elements that shock just as much as they please. 
combining her pop sensibility, avant­garde approach and mastery of percus­sion arrangements, meredith shows her true artistic merit. Tracks “r-Type” and “shill” frantically establish by means of artillery fire drum loops and searing gui­tar progressions. and as much as i appre­ciate the jittery wake-up these two tracks provide, it is in “scrimshaw” where every­thing seems to come together just right. The song’s juxtaposition of a rapid synth backbone and melancholy violin is sur­real, and as the track builds with increas­ing anticipation, nothing seems rushed. Finally, at around 3:30, an explosion sends off to euphoria. 
while it’s true that meredith is an expert in exhilaration, it is in the softer moments of “varmints” that demonstrate her range as a composer. one such moment comes in “honeyed words,” a slow, sci-fi ambient homage to the encyclopedic qualities of the museum while also paying close attention to its impact on the patron — especially when cameron, Ferris’ anx­ious friend, stares intently at seurat’s “a sunday afternoon on the island of la grande Jatte.” as the camera focuses in on the individual dots and loses the larger image, cameron’s eyes flicker agi­tatedly, suggesting his concern that he, too, appears insignificant under closer inspection. 

The beauty of being in a large group was that you weren’t necessarily an­chored to the tour, either. many students chose to explore individually, or to hang back and digest a painting on their own terms – a la cameron and his tiny dots. our tour guide didn’t mind; i think she, too, understood that art museums are a place for introspection. 
on his day off, Ferris visited the art institute of chicago. if you have a free weekend coming up, i highly suggest that you do, too. 
“van gogh’s Bedrooms” runs through may 10. “white crucifixion” is on display through may 8. all other paintings men­tioned are displayed year-round. 
Contact Nora McGreevy at nmcgreev@nd.edu 
track, which provides just enough time to reflect on varmint’s wild ride up to that point. meredith also sends her listener off on a similar note with the somber “Blackfriars,” a final breather and conclu­sion to the chaos it follows. 
monotony is just a part of life, but that doesn’t mean you have to get so prufrock about it. spontaneity and excitement are everywhere, you just have to keep your eyes — and in “varmints” case, ears — open. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 
“Varmints” 
Anna Meredith 
Label: Moshi Moshi Records 
Tracks: “Scrimshaw,” “Something Helpful,” “Nautilus” 
If you like: Julia Holter, Holly Herndon, CHVRCHES 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


WANTED 

Looking for tickets for games in Philadelphia. Call 215-266-5208 
“I am not throwing away my shot! I am not throw­ing away my shot! Hey yo, I’m just like my country, 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: investigate new ways to present your skills. pick up information that will help improve your resume. consider what you are doing now and what you would like to be doing by the end of the year. strive for perfection as well as satisfaction, and you will find your way to a less-stressful life and a happier future. your numbers are 2, 5, 19, 21, 24, 36, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t waffle when it comes to your professional goals. if you want to excel or make a change, take action and make it happen. it’s up to you to fuel your own fire and strive to reach your dreams. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): listen to the voice of reason and discuss your plans with someone able to influence your decision and help you make your dreams come true. a joint venture is likely to pay off. sharing will propel you forward. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen, assess the situation you face and make choices based on what is in your best interest. you cannot give in to emotional manipulation or temptation. if you desire change, make sure your motives are genuine. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): surround yourself with creative individuals who will encourage you to explore your own ideas. make romance and collaboration with others a priority, but don’t go into debt trying to keep up with others. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): protect against loss or being taken advantage of by someone manipulative. put more emphasis on personal change, learning and expanding your friendships with those who will help you reach your goals. Take a proactive position when it comes to your beliefs. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Believe in yourself and what you can accomplish. don’t let anyone’s negativity hold you back or cause you to underestimate what you are capable of. offer love and kindness, but don’t make sacrifices that will deter your success. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): delve into intriguing situations and look for ways to pursue what fascinates you. work toward a goal that will impress your peers, employers or teachers. it’s up to you to bring about the changes that will improve your life. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): what you put out, you will get back in spades. don’t hesitate to offer suggestions or pitch in to help a cause. your intuitive intelligence will allow you to shine and motivate others to help you make a difference. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): gather information and be certain before making a move that will have an impact on your reputation. don’t let anyone lead you down a path of temptation. recognize what is in your best interest. Be willing to say “no.” 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): check over your plans, investments and any upcoming legal or medical procedures. it’s always better to be safe and in control. don’t let someone’s unexpected changes send you on a wild goose chase. ride out the storm. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make personal changes that will encourage you to look for a job that will bring you a greater sense of satisfaction. someone or something from your past will help you recognize what you want to see unfold in your life. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): partnerships will pose limitations if you let anger take over. don’t say or do something you’ll regret. Treating others with a little love and compassion will improve your situation. 


Birthday Baby: you are giving, dependable and committed. you are motivated and inspirational. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
I’m young, scrappy, and hungry, and I’m not throw­ing away my shot! I’m ‘a get a scholarship to King’s College. I probably shouldn’t brag, but dag, I amaze and astonish. The problem is I got a lot of brains but no polish. I gotta holler just to be heard, with every word, I drop knowledge! I’m a diamond in the rough, a shiny piece of coal, tryin’ to reach my goal. My power of speech: unimpeachable.” 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Boxing out is the key to winning 

Rachel O’Grady 
sports writer 
after over a decade of watching me play (and warm the bench in) organized girls’ basketball, my dad is abso­lutely convinced the key to winning championships is simple: all you need to do is box out. in my now almost three years removed from the sport itself, watching my sister’s games, i realized he wasn’t wrong. i recognize this isn’t a hot take. it’s kind of like saying the one team needs to score more points than the other one. it’s remi­niscent of Baylor’s Taurean prince’s response to an in­terview question after their loss to yale last weekend. The other team just needs to get more rebounds. however, it’s not that simple. 
as hard as it is for me to admit my dad was right about something, boxing out is the key to getting more rebounds. period. you can out-hustle, out-work, out-play the other team, but when it comes to the boards, it comes down to boxing out. you can be any size, shape, stature, athletic talent, etc., but if you can box out, you will get more rebounds. when it comes to rebounding, a 5-foot-5-inch, quick point guard can be equally as dan­gerous as a 7-foot, massive post player if they box out. as a 6-foot, formerly-lanky post player, i can attest to the fact that both these play­ers are lethal under the rim. if they properly box out, you either end up fouling the point guard, who typically is a pretty decent shooter, or just giving the rebound to the taller player. 
rebounds directly trans­late to points, on both sides of the court. defensively, a solid, well-positioned box out is getting a stop at the least or sending you to the char­ity stripe with some luck. offensively, it creates a wide-open, easy shot. But it goes beyond that. By boxing out, the team benefits. you may not get the clear shot your­self, but it opens up a clear shot for a teammate. There is no downside, but moreover, the upside is so dramatically huge. 
save the “they just scored more points” theory: There is not one, time-proven way to win games. Bo ryan came pretty close with his empha­sis on rebounding (amongst other things) and his exem­plary performance as the wisconsin head coach — it’s hard to look at ryan’s career and say it was anything less than impressive. he took what, as assistant manag­ing editor Zach Klonsinski said was basically the sports department here at The observer, plus one or two stand-out players, and al­ways ranked in the top-four of the Big Ten, always made the tournament and consis­tently made it to the sweet 
16. while that success could be accounted for by several things, rebounding deserves major credit. ryan’s focus on rebounding is what differen­tiated the Badgers from other teams, and it’s what contrib­uted to consistent postseason appearances. 
granted, i understand this doesn’t fix all problems. if you can rebound, that doesn’t mean you’ll make the next shot. But on a more practical level, it significant­ly improves your chances. Teams still need to shoot well and defend well, but this job can be so much easier if they simply rebound well. if they’re boxing out, they will rebound better and overall, their game will improve. 
This isn’t the first time my dad has been right about something and it certainly won’t be the last, but i’m con­vinced after watching march madness this weekend that boxing out, more than ever, leads to consistent victory. while he might not be able to coach a division i men’s basketball team to a national championship — yet — box­ing out could at least lead to a girls’ high school state championship. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ROWING 

irish look to build on success in trip to Texas 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
coming off a two-week stretch since its last regatta, no. 17 notre dame now heads down to Town lake, Texas, for the longhorn invitational this Friday and saturday, where the irish will face off with san diego on Friday and host no. 7 Texas on saturday morning. 
notre dame’s first regatta of the season was the oak ridge cardinal invitational in Tennessee, where the team faced off against a number of ranked teams, including no. 4 virginia, no. 11 michigan, and no. 20 louisville. The team was able to come away with four first-place and 10 runner-up finishes, and irish head coach martin stone said he was fairly satisfied with the start to the season. 
“i think it went fine com­ing off spring break, where we were in a heavy training mode,” stone said. “i’m obviously disappointed that we lost to a few crews, but more important than anything we learned how to race as a group and improve our performance as the weekend progressed, so overall i would say it was a positive experience.” 
The irish will be looking to better their performance even more this upcoming weekend, and this week’s preparation has readied the team for san diego and Texas, stone said. 
“i think we have been getting better technically, so it’s been a solid week and a half of train­ing,” stone said. “with races on Friday and saturday, we just have to go out and do our thing. we can’t be too worried about the competition. so if we just focus on ourselves, we should be okay, and we’ll just see what happens. i feel good about our preparation for this and i feel good about our chances against two very good programs.” 
san diego is coming from the west coast conference while the longhorns compete in the Big 12 conference, and stone is eager to see how his team matches up. 
“all of our boats have been sol­id in training and will be ready to race, so we’ll see how they per­form,” stone said. “This week­end will have much the same impact as any race throughout the season, as we will learn from it and hopefully be racing well. we are racing against two qual­ity crews, so i’m interested to see these teams from the wcc and Big 12 and find out how we stack up against these schools. ultimately, our success will de­pend on just how much we learn and the effort we put forth in getting better throughout the weekend.” 
racing for the irish will be­gin Friday at 5:20 p.m. while the early session saturday begins at 
9:20 a.m. and wraps up at 9:40 a.m. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 

Track moves outdoors for spring season 
Observer Staff Report 
The irish open their outdoor season this weekend as the team travels south for the yellow Jacket invitational, hosted by georgia Tech, and the raleigh relays, hosted by north carolina state. Both the men and the women will be looking to build on a strong in­door season, where notre dame soared to new heights. 
leading the charge were the irish women, who on march 11 and 12 competed in the ncaa indoor championships in Birmingham, alabama. The team sent nine women to com­pete, headlined by senior captain molly seidel, where notre dame had considerable success. notre dame came in fifth in the over­all standings, its highest finish in school history, and all nine who competed returned as first-team all-americans. 
seidel stole the show in her fi­nal collegiate indoor meet, win­ning both the 3,000-meter and 5,000-meter runs, bringing her total to four ncaa titles in the past nine months. she set the school record in the 5,000 with a time of 15:15.21, and then fol­lowed it up the next day with another dominant display in the 3,000, winning in 8:57.86. she now holds the program’s re­cord for national titles won, and her 20 points went a long way to notre dame’s strong finish at the championships. 


Freshman anna rohrer, grad­uate student Kaila Barber and senior margaret Bamgbose also had high finishes for the team in the 5,000, 60-meter hurdles and the 400-meter dash, respec­tively. rohrer came in fourth in her first indoor championship, helping seidel set the pace early before finishing in 15:54.53. Barber came in sixth with a quick 8.07-second mark, while Bamgbose ran her fastest time all season at 52.12 seconds, good enough for fifth overall and another all-american perfor­mance, the ninth of her career. 
For the men, sole participant junior pole vaulter nathan richartz brought home first-team all-american honors with his eighth-place finish. 
seidel was recently awarded the women’s division i national athlete of the year award by the 
u.s. Track and Field and cross country coaches association, as well as the acc women’s indoor Track performer of the year, as voted on by the coaches. 
seidel, the defending cham­pion in the outdoor 10,000-meter run, will look to build on her acco­lade-filled year and lead her team to new heights when the spring season begins this weekend. 




ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish host Orange in ACC contest 
SWIMMING 

Notre Dame looks to carry momentum to NCAAs 

By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
hoping to build on their four-game win streak, the no. 4 irish will host conference foe no. 6 syracuse this saturday at arlotta stadium before traveling to wisconsin to face non-conference opponent marquette two days later. 
The irish (9-1, 3-1 acc) look to start the latter half of their confer­ence schedule on a high note as they host a syracuse squad (7-3, 1-1) that has only just begun their own acc slate. The irish have three games remaining against acc opponents, including match-ups against current conference leaders no. 13 duke and no. 3 north carolina. syracuse, by con­trast, has four conference games remaining. 
The orange have struggled to find consistency over the past few weeks – the team has not won back-to back-games since a 16-12 victory over no. 15 northwestern. since then, they have won games against no. 16 virginia and harvard, but have dropped matches against no. 1 maryland and Boston college. 
despite its inconsistency, senior defender Katherine mcmanus says that syracuse is always an enter­taining team to match up against. 
“preparing for syracuse is always fun,” mcmanus said. “They’re a talented acc team, and we respect the way they play a lot. as we prepare, we’re preparing to see their best all over the field just so we can be ready and play our best as well.” 
according to mcmanus, that level of performance means depth throughout the roster in terms of offensive efficiency. The irish have seven players with 10 or more goals this season. mcmanus attributes the team’s recent success to their ability to incorporate multiple at­tacking styles in a single game. 
“offensively we’re strong and have a lot of depth and versatility-every attacker on our team is a threat, which makes practice re­ally fun,” mcmanus said. “within our systems, our attackers have the ability to bring their own style to our game which makes us indi­vidually and as a unit pretty hard to stop. our attackers really pre­pare our defense by giving us ev­ery look we could possibly see and then some.” 
The irish offense and defense alike have found success in their recent win streak. in four games since their march 5 loss to louisville, the irish have scored 76 goals while allowing only 27. still, mcmanus insists that the team cannot get complacent. she cred­its the team’s rigorous prepara­tion cycles for their ability to adapt to the ever increasing strength of their competition. 
“we’re definitely moving in a positive direction as we head into the back half of our season,” mcmanus said. “But, we’ve talked about it all year, with great suc­cess also comes big targets on our backs, so we aren’t becoming com­placent or taking anything lightly. we focus on great weeks of prepa­ration heading into our games, and that’s been a huge piece of our success as we build confidence and belief in what our team can accomplish this year. 
“also, with each game, there are many positive takeaways that we work to replicate but also nega­tives that we work incredibly hard to clean up and just get better each game out. overall, this season has been a lot of fun and i’m excited to face a lot of top ranked teams as we close out our regular season.” 
saturday’s matchup against syracuse marks the conclusion of a three-game homestand for notre dame. afterwards, it will travel to milwaukee to close out the month against marquette (3-5, 0-0 Big east), who has struggled to gener­ate offense so far this season, man­aging to score more than 10 goals only four times in eight games. 
The irish host syracuse at noon saturday at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to compete in the ncaa championships this week­end at the georgia Tech campus recreation center in atlanta, georgia. The three-day event will begin Thursday and conclude this saturday. 
The last time the irish were in action was at last month’s acc championships at the greensboro aquatic center in greensboro, north carolina, where the irish finished in seventh place in the overall standings with 678 total points. The 400­yard freestyle relay team of sophomore Justin plaschka, junior reed Fujan, and freshmen daniel speers and Tabahn afrik qualified for the ncaa championships after finishing in second place with a time of 2:52.18, 
a notre dame school record. 
head coach mike litzinger acknowledged the best swimmers in the country will be at the meet and said his swimmers need to be 
ready  for  new  challenges  
that await them.  
“The  nca a  champion­ 

ships is the pinnacle of our sport on the collegiate level,” litzinger said. “it certainly is the fast short-course meet in the world, and our men have to be ready for that challenge.” 
litzinger said he thinks plaschka will be a swimmer to keep an eye on because of his past experience at the ncaa championships. 
“i believe that Justin is ready for his individual events,” litzinger said. “last season, he was just a relay qualifier. now as an indi­vidual qualifier, i am hoping he can take his experience from 2015 and use it wisely.” 
litzinger said his team will not be focusing on one single opponent at the meet this weekend given all the talent that will be present, and he hopes his team will be able to score points in early events to put them in a strong position to succeed. 
“as for our 400-yard free­style relay, and all of our free relays [200-yard, 400 and 800-yard], i am looking forward to our team racing the field,” litzinger said. “There isn’t one particular team that we are focused on, but an opportunity to score in relay events means dou­ble points, and that can take you a long way in the ncaa championships.” 
The irish will hit the pool in atlanta starting Thursday with their eyes on success at the ncaas. 
Contact Michael Ivey at       mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 


paid adverTisemenT 



FENCING 

notre dame sends 12 fencers to ncaa title 
By BEN PADANILAM 
associate sports editor 
Following a strong showing at the midwest regional, notre dame will travel to compete in the ncaa championships start­ing Thursday. 
The irish will send 12 fencers on their behalf to compete for the ti­tle, which is the maximum num­ber a program was able to qualify at the regional. notre dame is one of four schools who qualified the maximum number, as columbia, princeton and st. John’s were all able to do so as well. 
irish head coach gia Kvaratskhelia said he was pleased with his team’s performance at the qualifier, as it indicates the level of success they can achieve at the ncaa championships. 
“our regular season served as good preparation for region­als,” Kvaratskhelia said. “on the day, our fencers stepped up and performed. in the big picture, it reinforces that our program is a perennial contender for [the ncaa] championships.” 
notre dame will be sending two fencers in each of the three men’s and women’s events. on the men’s side, the irish will send senior garrett mcgrath and freshman darius Zacharakis to compete in epee, sophomores Jonathan Fitzgerald and Jonah shainberg in sabre and sopho­more virgile collineau and fresh­man axel Kiefer in foil. For the women, notre dame qualified senior catherine lee and fresh­man madeline antekeier in epee, sophomore Francesca russo and freshman Tara hassett in sabre and senior nicole mcKee and freshman sabrina massialas in foil. 

Qualifying 12 fencers puts notre dame at a competitive advantage for the team cham­pionship, as every victory an in­dividual fencer earns adds one point to the team’s total for the event, with the title being award­ed to the team with the most points at the end of the competi­tion. Kvaratskhelia said his team knows what it has to do to come away with a title against a strong field. 
“To win at ncaas, every squad, every fencer needs to contribute,” Kvaratskhelia said. “if one person falters, it puts pressure on every­one else to make it up. … every year is different in regards to the competition. clearly, our main rivals are the other teams with 12 fencers: columbia, princeton and st. John’s. at the same time, other schools such as ohio state, penn state, harvard and penn will be very tough. 
“we know our strengths and vulnerabilities, and those of our rivals. … it’s about execution.” 
individually, the women will compete first in the event Thursday and Friday and will be followed by the men saturday and sunday. Kvaratskhelia said he thinks Kiefer and massialas are in good spots to compete for individual titles, while the pro­gram’s only reigning individual champion competing this year, russo, has a tough field ahead for her. 
“axel Kiefer and sabrina massialas are serious contenders for the title,” Kvaratskhelia said. “while the ncaa is a unique event, once it gets to the final four, it becomes familiar territory for them — 15-touch bouts. 
“as for [russo] repeating, it won’t be easy; there’s lots of competition. she’s up to the challenge.” 
The six freshmen notre dame qualified for the event will not be the only fencers who have no experience at the ncaa cham­pionships: lee and mcKee, two of the team’s senior leaders, will also be competing at this stage for the first time. Kvaratskhelia said he’s especially proud of them this season and expects them to per­form at the same level they have all year. 
“catherine and [nicole] have been fantastic captains and lead­ers this year, on and off the strip,” Kvaratskhelia said. “They’ve been the rocks on which two young weapon squads have anchored themselves, and have delivered great results. it’s great for them to finally have the chance to repre­sent notre dame on the big stage. 
“with that comes a unique knowledge that this is it. This may be axel’s and sabrina’s first of four ncaas, if we’re lucky. But for catherine and [nicole], it gives them that extra motivation to put everything into it.” 
Kvaratskhelia said the team has had a successful season thus far, but its true measure of this year will be this weekend. with that in mind throughout the last week of practice, the irish are as ready as they can be for the event, he added. 
“we’ve had a great week of rest, training, and mental prepara­tion,” Kvaratskhelia said. “we’re ready for ncaas.” 
The irish will take the strip in the ncaa championships start­ing Thursday at gostman center in waltham, massachusetts. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish set to face Ohio State 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
a week after squeaking by virginia in an 8-7 overtime victory, no. 2 notre dame will travel to columbus, ohio, to face ohio state on saturday. 
The irish (5-1, 1-0 acc) have the advantage over the Buckeyes (5-4, 0-0 Big Ten) heading into their 55th all-time meeting. notre dame has won each of the last 11 years and leads the overall series 33-21. its 9-0 victory at home over ohio state last season marked the second shutout in notre dame history. after the win, junior goalie shane doss was awarded the united states intercollegiate lacrosse association national player of the week. 
This season, doss will lead the second-ranked irish defense as the reigning acc defensive player of the week following his performance against the cavaliers on saturday. in the overtime win, doss had 14 saves and left the opposition scoreless for the first 22 minutes of the game. he is currently first in the acc and second in the nation in goals against average (5.94) and save percentage (.624). doss credits the rest of the team for his string of recent successes. 
“a huge part of my individual recognition has been the play of our defense early on this season,” doss said. “we have a core of really talented and experienced guys in front me who make it tough on oppos­ing offenses to get good shots all game. also, i think having a year’s experience of starting behind me has really helped slow the game down and give me confidence in high-pressure situations.” 
Junior midfielder sergio perkovic has also given the irish momentum heading into this week’s matchup on the offense as the acc offensive player of the week. he scored a hat trick against the cavaliers, includ­ing a goal in the final minute to send the game into overtime, as well as the game-winning goal in overtime. with both the of­fense and defense firing on all cylinders, notre dame will pre­pare for an ohio state team that is on a three-game losing skid. after starting off the season 5-1, the Buckeyes have dropped games against no. 19 hofstra, no. 8 Towson and no. 1 denver. 
despite their struggles, the irish aren’t taking the Buckeyes for granted. 
“This is a dangerous team, because they are always ca­pable of playing to the level of their opponent,” doss said. “last year, they upset duke in the ncaa tournament and al­most did it again to denver in the next round, so we know that they have some talented playmakers and a good coach. we just escaped from a good virginia team in overtime in a game everyone had picked for us to win, so we know the prob­lems with looking past an oppo­nent or assuming anything will happen.” 
ohio state is led by junior at­tack austin shanks, who trans­ferred to ohio state this season after two years at Bellarmine. shanks is leading the Buckeyes with 17 points, including nine goals and a team-high eight as­sists. Junior attack eric Fannell is another transfer who has made an immediate impact for ohio state in his first season. coming from adrian, Fannell has scored 11 goals and record­ed five assists on the season. senior attack carter Brown has also attributed 11 goals and five assists to the ohio state offense this season. 
The irish have played into ex­tra periods the last two games and would like to avoid falling into the same trap against the Buckeyes on the road. 
“we haven’t really come out strong in either of the last two games, forcing ourselves to make plays in tight situations later on,” doss said. “if we can get on the board early and give ourselves some breathing room, i’m confident we have the talent to keep that lead for the rest of the game.” 
The irish will look to start an­other winning streak saturday against ohio state at 1 p.m. before returning to acc play against syracuse on april 2. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 


The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

how we both got here.” 

Birlingmair’s inability to next five innings. meanwhile, 
Baseball M Bball 
Just five days after facing no. 14 find the zone became all the uic began to chip away at notre 

conTinued From page 16 conTinued From page 16 
more apparent in the third, dame’s lead, scoring a run pressure, the irish will face anoth­
seed stephen F. austin’s defensive 

as the irish scored four runs apiece on six hits in the fifth, a lot of the games will come down er strong defensive team — just 
designated hitter Jake shepski, with just one hit. after shepski sixth and seventh innings. The to the final four minutes, just how one with a different philosophy. 
laid down a sacrifice bunt that reached on a dropped fly ball Flames’ nine spot in the lineup efficient you can be and how many “They try to keep you out of the 
pushed the runners to second by uic sophomore left fielder was particularly productive, stops you can get.” lane,” junior forward v.J. Beachem 
and third. Joe rossi, Birlingmair fell apart, with catchers freshman wyatt while notre dame has spent said. “They’re not trying to deny so 
senior catcher ricky sanchez walking three straight batters. mascarella and sophomore the whole season firmly in the much on the wings and things like 
followed up with a hard ground-head coach mike dee pulled gabe dwyer both doubling in a ncaa tournament picture, the that, but [they’re] keeping you out 
er that was rerouted by the Birlingmair in favor of fresh-run. seventh-seeded Badgers (22-12, of the lane and keeping you from 
mound then bounced off the man charlie cerny, but it made in the end, however, irish se­12-6 Big Ten) were an afterthought getting easy shots.” 
glove of the second baseman, no difference, as Biggio tripled nior left-hander michael hearne after former head coach Bo ryan Beachem played with Badgers 
scoring vierling and allowing down the right field line to clear was able to limit the damage announced his retirement on dec. junior forward nigel hayes, his 
him to reach first. senior center the bases and make it 9-0. and produce a quality start of 
fielder Kyle richardson then ex-“i definitely want to be aggres-six innings and two earned runs .500 overall and just 1-4 in Big Ten ketball during high school, but 
16. in mid-January, wisconsin was team’s leading scorer, in aau bas­
ecuted a safety squeeze perfect-sive early in the count, especial-for his second straight win. play, a team looking more likely says the two aren’t on speaking 
ly, scoring richards. ly with the bases loaded,” Biggio “he was doing a good job of to miss the postseason altogether terms this week. 
with two outs, freshman said. “in that situation, we need-commanding his fastball, es-than to burst through to the sweet “we’ve talked a lot, especially 
third baseman cole daily ed to get a few runs across, and pecially in against the right­
16. this year,” Beachem said. “ … i’m kept the inning alive against you know that new guy wants to ies,” aoki said of his pitcher. “it’s 
But since then interim, and now not gonna be talking to him [this 
Flames freshman right-hander get off to a good start, pounding important for him to do that so permanent, Badgers head coach week] until probably right before 
reid Birlingmair with a single the zone early, so i was ready to that the changeup is more ef­greg gard has led his team to the game.” 
through the left side of the in-go and he made a mistake.” fective. … he commanded even an 11-3 mark, one that saw mar-and while notre dame benefits 
field, putting runners at the Biggio ended the game 2-for-5 some of the few breaking balls quee wins over michigan state, from a second-straight upset with 
corners. at the plate, driving in four runs he threw.” indiana, maryland and iowa en stephen F. austin shocking third-
Junior second baseman while scoring one himself. The irish have just one day off route to a sixth-place finish in the seeded west virginia and then 
cavan Biggio then blasted a The strongest hitting night, before they travel to Blacksburg, Big Ten. wisconsin’s victory over Xavier, 
ground-rule double to score however, belonged to an irish virginia, to face off against while wisconsin is known na-Jackson pointed out that everyone 
sanchez and advance daily to player who was not even ex-virginia Tech. after two acc tionally for playing at a slow, de-left at this stage can play. 
third. sophomore left fielder pected to start before the week-series this year, notre dame is liberate pace — it ranks 345th out “They’re a really great team — 
Jack Johnson and senior first end. sanchez went 3-for-3 with a still looking for its first series of 351 teams in tempo — Brey was from here on out, we’re gonna be 
baseman Zak Kutsulis then fol-walk, an rBi and two runs while victory, having been swept by quick to point out his irish also en-playing great teams,” Jackson said. 
lowed with back-to-back singles, also catching all nine innings in no. 4 louisville and dropping joy a slow game. “we have to be great to advance. 
the first of which scored Biggio. place of junior ryan lidge, who two of three last weekend to no. “i’ll give you a stat that no one so far, what we know about them 
vierling ended the outburst with missed his seventh game of the 13 north carolina state. thinks: They’re averaging 62 pos-is really how disciplined they are 
a fly out to right field, but in total season due to injury. The hokies have also gotten sessions a game in the ncaa tour-on both ends of the floor, defen­
10 irish batters came to the plate “i was just looking fastball off to a rough start in confer­nament, we’re averaging 60,” Brey sively and offensively.” 
in the inning. and trying to keep it as relaxed ence play and are losers of seven said. “everyone thinks we’re this and if this irish team really 
“we strung, like, 10 quality at-as possible,” sanchez said. “i straight. The three-game series track meet. … we’re grinding too.” wants to distance itself from last 
bats together there,” aoki said. haven’t caught this much in my is slated to start Thursday, with That said, Brey said the irish year’s elite eight team, winning 
“my sense is that their [pitcher] entire life, but my job is just to first pitch coming at 5:30 p.m. started searching for transi-two more games and reaching the 
is kind of more a short-burst be ready whenever my name is Thursday and Friday and noon tion scores during their last five program’s second-ever Final Four 
kind of kid, and he got extended called.” saturday. outings. would more than likely do the 
just a little bit beyond where he’s after the third inning, notre “we are pushing that thing up trick. 
comfortable going, which led to dame’s offense quieted, pro-Contact Greg Hadley at     the floor and looking for some “[The elite eight is] something 
him to lose the zone.” ducing just three hits over the ghadley@nd.edu early buckets,” Brey said. “and that we want to reach and surpass 
paid adverTisemenT 

that helped us in both games in this year,” senior forward Zach Brooklyn.” auguste said. “For me individu-
Just as notre dame advanced ally, as a senior, i don’t want the to the sweet 16 by winning close last game to be until the champi­games, so too did the Badgers: onship game.” wisconsin beat no. 10 seed Tipoff between notre dame pittsburgh 47-43 before upsetting and wisconsin is set for 7:27 p.m. second-seeded Xavier on sunday, Friday from philadelphia’s wells 66-63. Fargo center. 
“Both teams are finding ways to win, just believing that they can Contact Alex Carson at        do it,” Brey said. “it’s interesting acarson1@nd.edu 




Big Ten 
conTinued From page 16 
notre dame senior associate athletic director Tom nevala told the minneapolis star Tribune the school saw the jump to the Big Ten as a way to return to notre dame’s traditional geographic base while maintaining the level of play found in hockey east. 
“The competition has been ex­cellent in the hockey east and in the Big Ten, and that’s where we want to be competing, with the best,” nevala said. “There is great excitement because we’re renew­ing the rivalries that we cherish, and it will be great to go to those campuses on a regular basis.” 
The move returns the irish to a league that fits them better geographically: despite play­ing in a conference centered in new england, this year’s team roster contains only one player from the region: walk-on senior goaltender nick stasack is from west springfield, massachusetts. Freshmen defenseman dennis gilbert and left wing Joe wegworth both hail from nearby new york, a state no hockey east teams call home. 
notre dame’s 2015-16 roster is comprised of eight players from minnesota, four from illinois, two from michigan and one each from wisconsin and iowa, all states in the heart of Big Ten country. 
since the Big Ten began play, it has sought a way to expand on its six teams, but no other program in the conference has seriously considered making the jump to division i. nebraska and illinois both field club teams, but both programs would require a large increase in funding and upgrades to the team facilities, according to Teddy greenstein of the chicago Tribune. 
The Big Ten added Johns hopkins to its men’s lacrosse con­ference for the 2015 season, and the Blue Jays became the first pro­gram from a non-Big Ten school to play in a Big Ten-sponsored con­ference. The irish will become the second team to fit this category when they begin play in 2017-18. 
notre dame’s hockey program began as a club team in 1912 and continued on and off at that level before making the jump to division i in 1968 with head coach lefty smith at the helm, a posi­tion he held until 1987. The irish originally played as an indepen­dent until they joined the wcha in 1971, where they spent the next 10 seasons before moving to the newly-formed ccha. notre dame dropped ice hockey as a varsity sport during the 1983-84 season, when the squad returned to club status, but then the program re­turned to division i competition and the ccha the following year. 
after the ccha began to fall apart with the departure of michigan, michigan state and ohio state for the newly-formed the last three seasons. The irish Big Ten league leading up to the claimed the final ccha tourna­2013-2014 campaign, notre dame ment title in 2013 before major announced it would move to reshuffling of college hockey west hockey east, where it has played of the appalachian mountains drastically altered the composi­tion of the wcha and signaled both the end of the ccha and the start of Big Ten hockey and the nchc. 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
“it’s pretty exciting,” Fogarty said. “The second our season end­ed last year, this was a goal of ours. it’s been a focal point of our team this year, and just to see our name up there is obviously really excit­ing. with a team like michigan, it makes it even cooler, so it’s pretty special, and we’re excited.” 
By virtue of drawing michigan in the first round, the irish will renew a rivalry that has remained dor­mant since the ccha disbanded in 2013. The two teams have met 134 times since the rivalry started in 1921, with michigan leading the all-time series 73-56-5. They last met in the final ccha season, with the irish recording a 5-0-0 record against the wolverines in the 2012­13 season, including a 3-1 victory in the ccha championship game in detroit, michigan. 
senior alternate captain and left wing sam herr talked about how much it means to be renewing a historic rivalry in such an impor­tant game. 
“it’s arguably the best rivalry in sports as far as college goes,” herr said. “i grew up idolizing this rival­ry. it’s pretty special i can be a part of it, let alone be a part of notre dame in general, so i’m embracing it. it means a lot that i can be a part of it.” 
The irish and the wolverines have met once before in the ncaa tournament, a 2008 Frozen Four game in denver, colorado. The irish prevailed 5-4 in overtime to advance to the championship game. 
“obviously football is a huge ri­valry,” Fogarty said, “but when we were in the ccha, these two teams had a lot of good games. … we’re excited we get to play michigan. it’s pretty fun. obviously they’ve had some success this year, which makes it an exciting challenge, but we’re definitely up for it.” 
michigan has had one of the strongest offensive seasons of any team in the tournament, led by three of the highest-scoring forwards in all of college hockey. Freshman Kyle connor and ju­niors J.T. compher and Tyler motte are three of the top four point scor­ers in the country, with 69, 60 and 54 points respectively. 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson mentioned the need to contain the “ccm” line in particular af­ter learning his team had drawn michigan in the first round. 
“we haven’t played michigan in a few years,” Jackson said. “They obviously are one of the best teams in the country. They probably have the best player on the best line in the country. as usual, they’re a full throttle offensive juggernaut that can score in flurries. i think they are the leading scoring team in the country, so you always have to be prepared. michigan teams are always fast, always skilled. we’re gonna have to do a great job with the puck and also without it.” 
after losing five of six games to close out their season, includ­ing a home sweep at the hands of northeastern in the hockey east tournament, the irish are thank­ful they have the chance to keep playing and to redeem themselves against top competition. 
“we’re in the right set of mind right now, and all we’re gonna do moving forward is focus on michigan. with that being said, the guys are obviously excited. we’ve been excited all week, and we just have to come back monday ready to work, have a good week of practice, and we’ll see what hap­pens on Friday.” 
“i think for us, we ran into a re­ally good team in the end there, obviously northeastern has prov­en that they’re not a fluke,” Jackson said. “i think for us it’s kind of a second life, a second opportunity to prove ourselves. we get into an opportunity where we get to play in the ncaa tournament, at that point it’s a new season.” 
if the irish are able to get past the wolverines Friday night, they will play the winner of a game between no. 1-seeded north dakota and no. 4-seeded northeastern in the regional final saturday. 
michigan and notre dame will meet in the opening round of the ncaa tournament Friday. The puck drops at 5:30 pm at u.s. Bank arena in cincinnati. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



The oBserver | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame, Michigan to renew rivalry 
Irish, Wolverines to open NCAA tournament Friday 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
after bowing out of the hockey east tournament in the quarterfinals, the irish can now rest easy knowing they did enough during the season to earn a spot in the ncaa tournament. 
no. 12 notre dame (19-10­7, 15-5-2 hockey east) will face no. 7 michigan in the first round of the tourna­ment in cincinnati, Friday evening at u.s. Bank arena. 
The wolverines (24-7-5, 12-5-3 Big Ten) earned the no. 2 seed in the midwest region after winning the Big Ten tournament on saturday while notre dame skates into the ncaa tournament with an at-large bid and the no. 3 seed. 
senior captain and cen­ter steven Fogarty said the team is excited to return to the tournament after miss­ing out on a bid a season ago. 
see hocKey PAGE 15 

ND will move from Hockey East to Big Ten in 2017 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame is joining the Big Ten — in one sport at least. 
as originally reported by the chicago Tribune, minneapolis star Tribune and uscho, the irish will join the Big Ten on the ice beginning with the 2017-18 season. 
notre dame began play in hockey east during the 2013­14 campaign after spending the previous 16 seasons in the ccha. 
The Big Ten first sponsored a separate hockey conference starting that same year, and it is comprised of its six schools that support a division i hockey program: michigan, michigan state, ohio state, wisconsin, minnesota and penn state. 
The irish, Badgers and gophers played together in the wcha from 1971 through 1981, while the wolverines, spartans and Buckeyes were members of the ccha with notre dame un­til joining the Big Ten. 
see Big Ten PAGE 15 

BASEBALL | nd 9, illinois chicago 5 
irish fend off uic comeback 

By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
notre dame stormed to an early lead against illinois­chicago, then held off a come­back attempt from the Flames (9-11, 2-1 horizon), coming away with a 9-5 win at Frank eck stadium on Tuesday. 
all of notre dame’s offense came in the first three innings, as the irish (9-10, 1-5 acc) put up five runs in the second and four in the third. 

“That’s what you’re looking for,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “Their pitcher was com­ing at us with fastballs early on, and i thought we did a pretty good job of getting ourselves on time.” 
Freshman right fielder matt vierling got things started in the second with a single up the middle, then advanced to second on an error by Flames freshman third baseman alex dee, who could not handle a grounder from irish senior shortstop lane richards. The next batter, sophomore 
see BaseBall PAGE 14 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

nd to face Badgers in sweet 16 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
we almost got it a year ago. 
had Jerian grant’s final-second 3-point attempt hit, rather than missed, notre dame and wisconsin would have met in the Final Four. 
and while things are differ­ent for both schools this year 
— there’s no grant or sam dekker, Frank Kaminsky or pat connaughton — we’ll get the matchup in Friday’s sweet 16 in philadelphia. 
having to follow in the footsteps of last year’s team might have been difficult at times, but irish head coach mike Brey said he was proud of this irish squad for secur­ing consecutive sweet 16 ap­pearances for the first time since the 1970s. 
“This is a group that al­ways wanted to distance themselves from last year’s team and have their own identity,” Brey said. “and i give them a lot of credit be­cause last year’s team had no expectations after going 15-17, they could just play and develop and everything they did was gravy last year. 
“This group had that hanging on their shoulder the whole time and to get to this point, fighting through that and having some tough times … i give them a lot of credit, and i give a lot of credit to our leadership.” 
But while the no. 6-seeded irish (23-11, 11-7 acc) don’t have grant or connaughton this go-around, each of the squad’s five double-digit scorers was a rotation player during the elite eight run last season — and junior guard demetrius Jackson said that experience ben­efits notre dame most in crunch time. 
“a big point for us where [our experience] will show is in game situations,” Jackson said. “in that final four min­utes, we understand how key it is to be able to execute and 
see m BBall PAGE 14 





