ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNCOVEr NEWSPaPEr SErVINg ThE TruTh NOTrE damE aNd aNd rEPOrT SaINT mary’S IT aCCuraTEly 

VOlumE 50, ISSuE 69 | THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 2016 | NdSmCObSErVEr.COm 
Administration announces dorm overhaul 
Pangborn Hall community to move to new dorm, Walsh Hall residents to live in Pangborn for 2016-2017 
By MARGARET HYNDS and JACK ROONEY 
News Editor and managing Editor 
This July, incoming freshmen women will no longer have the possibility of being placed in Pangborn hall. 
In a plan announced Wednesday night by vice president for student affairs Erin hoffmann harding, the Pangborn community — cur­rent residents and rector Sr. mary donnelly — will move into one of the two yet un­named residence halls current­ly under construction on the east side of campus. 
Pangborn hall itself, which hoffmann harding described as “functional and safe,” will be used as a “swing hall” for the foreseeable future to house dorm communities whose buildings undergo extensive, year-long renovations. The Walsh hall community will re­side in Pangborn for the 2016­2017 school year, followed by the badin hall community and then morrissey manor com­munity the following academic year. 
In a letter to the university community Wednesday night, hoffmann harding said the move “will honor the personal relationships, traditions and strong sense of community that have been formed in Pangborn hall and will continue to flour­ish among those same women in the new women’s residence hall.” 
donnelly, who has served as the rector of Pangborn for eight years, said the move was new territory for her, but she hoped to preserve a number of aspects of the Pangborn community. 
“What I’m thinking at the 
see dOrmS PAGE 5 

STUDENT SENATE 



Chief of staff resigns, replaced by secretary 
government would be in a

By MEGAN VALLEY 

News Writer better place and all of you would be in a better place Senior dan Sehlhorst with someone who would 
stepped down from his po­
sition as chief of staff at 
Wednesday night’s student 
Senate meeting, and it was announced that student 
government secretary soph­omore Sibonay Shewit has replaced Sehlhorst. 

Senators had previously been informed of Sehlhorst’s decision to step down, but the announcement was for­mally made at the meeting. 
“It’s a result of a combina­tion of personal things and family things that all con­verged at the same time,” he said. 
“It came to the point where I realized I would be in a better place, student probably be less distracted for the next semester, so I decided to change roles.” 
Sehlhorst said he will re­main involved with stu­dent government during the semester. 
“I’ll still be around in an advisory role — I’ll be talking to bryan [ricketts, 
see SENaTE PAGE 5 




SMC conducts survey 
according to director of collect feedback from all of 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
Saint mary’s Editor Institutional research daniel our students,” he said. 
Flowers, the climate survey In the email sent to stu-
Saint mary’s students will remain open for students dents, College President Carol Wednesday morning received to complete through Feb. 3. ann mooney said she hopes a personalized email about Students will receive remind-students will take the twen­participating in the first sex-er emails requesting their ty-minute survey whether or ual assault campus climate participation throughout the not they have experienced survey. three-week window. unwanted sexual contact or 
according to the email, The survey will be open sexual assault. the College is collaborating to both undergraduate and The survey is entirely anon-with the higher Education graduate students, Flowers ymous, Flowers said. data Sharing Consortium said. “While we hope that all stu­(hEdS) to administer the “The issue of sexual assault dents choose to participate 
hEdS Sexual assault Campus impacts all of our students 
Climate Survey. and it is important that we see SurVEy PAGE 3 


ND fiction writer honored 
By ANDREA VALE 
News Writer 
azareen Van der Vliet Oloomi, an assistant profes­sor in Notre dame’s depart­ment of English and m.F.a program in creative writ­ing, was recently named one of the 2015 National book Foundation’s “5 under 35.” 
The honor is given to notable young fiction writ­ers, who are chosen by past “5 under 35” honorees and National book award win­ners and finalists. dinaw mengestu, author of “The beautiful Things that heaven bears” and a previ­ous “5 under 35” honoree, chose Van der Vliet Oloomi for the award for her novel “Fra keeler.” 
according to the National book Foundation’s website, “Fra keeler” tells the story of a man who “purchases a house, the house of Fra keeler, moves in and be­gins investigating the cir­cumstances of the latter’s death. yet the investigation quickly turns inward, and the reality it seeks to un­ravel seems only to grow 

see aWard PAGE 3 

NEWS PAGE 3 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 8 mEN’S baSkETball PAGE 16 WOmEN’S baSkETball PAGE 16 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney  Cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: Wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: Erin rice Multimedia Editor: Wei Cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: Emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What do you want to be when you grow up? 

Alex Morales 

Maria Ines Aranguren 
sophomore 
sophomore 
holy Cross hall 
Welsh Family hall 
“a hermit.” 
“mama-movil driver.” 

Dulce Macias 

Greg Perenich 
sophomore 
sophomore 
Welsh Family hall 
alumni hall 
“a teenage mutant ninja turtle.” 
“a kid.” 

Kelly Smith 

Olivia Bensett 
sophomore 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla East hall 
holy Cross hall 
“museum curator.” 
“Franklin d. roosevelt.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
dame du lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 
Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTmaSTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. box 779 
024 South dining hall 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the associated Press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
kayla mullen alex Carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
JP gschwind rachel O’grady kathryn marshall 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du John darr 
Photo Viewpoint 

Staff Mass Lecture: “Mobile Annual Bride Expo DeCicco Duals Women’s Basketball 
Sarah Olson Scott Olehnik 

Log Chapel Shakespeare” Joyce Center Joyce Center vs. Tennessee 
12:10p.m.-12:40 p.m. Hesburgh Library 10 a.m.-4 p.m. All day Joyce Center All staff and faculty 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Caterers, Notre Dame 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
Corrections 

are welcome. Fr. Jim Part of the Folio Fridays photographers and fencing team hosts The Irish take on the 
The Observer regards itself as Bracke will preside. Lecture Series. more will be present. tournament. Lady Vols. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Theatre Auditions Hockey vs.Merrimack Men’s Tennis vs. La Misa en Espanol Lecture: “Black Lives 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
DeBartolo Performing Cavanaugh Hall Michigan State Dillon Hall Matter” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Arena Eck Tennis Pavilion 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. DeBartolo Hall 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
6:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. All are welcome to 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
‘Pride and Prejudice’ The Irish take on the The Irish take on the this weekly mass Movement co-founders 
we can correct our error. 

directed by Anton Jean. Warriors. Spartans. celebrated in Spanish. speak on race relations. 


Unity Games to help build community 
By JP GSCHWIND 
News Writer 
In an effort to encourage students from a variety of backgrounds to meet, work together and have fun, the unity games will kick off Jan. 24 and run until Jan. 30. Sponsored by multicultural Student Programs and Services (mSPS), the gender relations Center, recSports, the Student activities Office, the Student union board, the division of Student affairs, the mcdonald Center for Student Well-being, Campus ministry and the Career Center, the unity games hope to promote multicultural col­laboration and friendship among the student body. 
The unity games repre­sent an opportunity to moti­vate students to interact with other students they might not have met otherwise and to get involved in the efforts of mSPS and other sponsor­ing organizations, junior in­tern for multicultural Student Programs and Services Summer bernard said. 
“We want everyone to get to know each other and come together as a community,” bernard said. 
according to the unity games’ website, students need to register online in or­der to participate. They will then be placed in teams to compete in a variety of games throughout the week, includ­ing a trivia night hosted by Campus ministry, a recSports day and a Family Feud-style competition. Points will be awarded to teams based on their rates of participation during the entire week, as well as their performances in individual competitions. Even if students cannot com­mit to being on a team for the whole duration of the games, they are encouraged to still show up, watch and partici­pate in events when possible, bernard said. 

“The team with the most points at the end of the week will get a prize as a kind of in­centive,” bernard said. 
While the focus is having fun and building community, events sponsored by Campus ministry and the Career Center may also help educate students, bernard said. 
The unity games began last year and found success with approximately 60 stu­dent participants, a number they hope to match or exceed this year, bernard said. 
“There wasn’t anything exactly like this before,” bernard said. 
The spirit of the unity games follows in same vein as other programming host­ed by multicultural Student Programs and Services, bernard said. In particular, she said the event shares the same goals as First Fridays, an ongoing series of relatively unstructured social events aimed at bringing students together to promote commu­nity with food and games. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
PaId adVErTISEmENT 

Survey 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 1 
in this important survey, participation is entirely vol­untary and it is important to both Saint mary’s and hEdS that student anonymity is pro­tected,” he said. “The College is administering the survey through hEdS and before data is returned to Saint mary’s, hEdS will remove any iden­tifying information students may provide in comments.” 
mooney acknowledged in her email that the survey may be emotionally difficult for students and provided a link to local and national resources for students affected by sexual assault. 
Flowers said it is made clear to students that the results of this survey will not be used to investigate any specific indi­viduals or incidents. 
he said the survey will allow the College to better under­stand not only the climate on sexual assault and unwanted 
Award 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 1 
more strange, as the narrator pursues not leads but lines of thought, most often to hid­eous conclusions.” 
The los angeles Times called “Fra keeler” a “stun­ning psychological thriller, a total identification with madness that creates drama without either belittling or romanticizing the insane.” 
Van der Vliet Oloomi said she received a phone call no­tifying her of the honor while en route to the airport to de­part for Naropa university in boulder, Colorado, where she was teaching a master’s class. 
“I had attended the Summer Writing Program at Naropa university when I was much younger,” Van der Vliet Oloomi said in an email. 
“I had gone there to study with some of my favorite writers, so it was incredible to receive the news right be­fore returning to Naropa so many years later. I was de­lighted – it’s a privilege to have been selected as one of this year’s ‘5 under 35’ sexual contact, but also how students perceive the College’s official reporting process and responses. 
The survey results will also help the College understand the frequency and nature of sexual assaults and unwanted sexual contact including gen­eral locations of assaults, rela­tions of any of the victims to the persons indicated to have committed the assaults and whether bystanders tried to intervene. 
additionally, Flowers said survey questions will ask whether victims reported the assaults and the level of satis­faction with the institution’s response to a report if one was made. The survey will also collect information from stu­dents about their own roles as bystanders and the degree to which they intervened, Flowers said. 
The results of the survey, mooney said, will be used to inform and improve support, policies and practices at Saint mary’s. 
honorees.” 
according to a press re­lease by the College of arts and letters, Van der Vliet Oloomi was first hon­ored, along with this year’s four other honorees, at the National book Foundation’s “5 under 35” celebration Nov. 16 at the Power house arena in brooklyn, New york. 
“The event was hosted by leVar burton and emceed by ben greenman of the New yorker,” Van der Vliet Oloomi said. “Each of the five hon­orees was introduced by the writer who selected them.” 
The event kicked off the National book award cel­ebrations. On Nov. 19, the honorees appeared at the library of Congress, where they participated in a read­ing of their works and a pan­el discussion. In april 2016, the miami book Fair will also host the honorees. 
according to her website, Van der Vliet Oloomi is also a recipient of the 2015 Whiting Writer’s award, a macdowell Fellowship and a Fulbright Fellowship in Fiction to Spain. She is currently work­ing on a novel titled “Taüt,” which she described as “a bizarre love story and the 
Flowers said the survey re­sults will first be shared with the Presidential Task Force on Sexual assault when available later this spring. results will be available to the College com­munity after the Task Force has had a chance to review the results. 
additionally, the full set of comparison data from other participating institutions is available to the College likely this summer or early fall 2016. 
hEdS and its member in­stitutions — a consortium of mostly private, non-profit col­leges and universities from across the country — designed the survey, Flowers said. 
“In addition to receiving feedback from our own stu­dents, by participating in the consortium, we’ll also have aggregate level comparison re­sults from other participating hEdS institutions to which we can compare our results,” he said. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
journey of a lifetime through the Western mediterranean. It is a darkly comic novel that explores the relationship be­tween literature, space and mortality from the point of view of a narrator who suf­fers from intense bouts of literature sickness.” Van der Vliet Oloomi is currently on a year-long leave from Notre dame but will return to cam­pus to teach full time for the Fall 2016 semester. 
“I would say that writing is always a process,” Van der Vliet Oloomi said. “you think the process is going to end when you get this or that book published — you think that you will have arrived. but I’ve learned that writ­ing is a life-long apprentice­ship; there is no end point. That’s the beauty of it, but it is also what makes it utterly terrifying. 
“That being said, winning an award is an incredible ex­perience; it charges you with confidence and a sense of re­sponsibility. It gives you the fuel to keep doing the hard work and putting yourself out there.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 


PaId adVErTISEmENT 



Dorms 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 1 
moment is that we will take the traditions and the community — what makes Pangborn, Pangborn — into this new place,” she said. “ … I think it’s going to be a combination of retaining what has been and then de­veloping new. So it’s going to be a new community in many ways. It’s less about the building — because Pangborn is not that aes­thetically pleasing — it’s about what we do inside. 
“It’s about the community we build. all of that com­munity and tradition will go with us, and then we have the opportunity to incorpo­rate what has been perhaps with some new,” donnelly said. 
In addition to the women currently living in Pangborn and freshmen from the class of 2020, donnelly said an­other 60 or so women would be accepted as inter-hall transfers to the new dorm, which will house 225 wom­en. She said this would be a factor in the creation of the new dorm identity. 
“I also recognize that there will be folks current­ly on campus who are not members of Pangborn who will also join the communi­ty,” donnelly said. “how do we incorporate all of those folks, plus the freshmen who will come in, and build something? and we have great foundation to build from. 
In terms of hall staff, how­ever, donnelly said she and current hall staff would be hiring new ras for the 2016­2017 school year primarily from the current Pangborn community. hall govern­ment, too, will be elect­ed from the current dorm community. 
karen kennedy, director of housing for the university, said the move was a “great opportunity” for the hall community. 
“I have the great privilege of working with [donnelly] as her supervisor and I know her to be a very collabora­tive person, which is why I’m so excited that she will be the rector of this new com­munity,” kennedy said. “So I know there will be great listening to the women who will continue to be in this community, and what’s im­portant to them. 
“but this is also a great op­portunity for them to rein­vent themselves. What’s the best of what has been, and what’s the next chapter? and because of mary’s collabora­tive style, I know it will be a nice balance of those things, “ kennedy said. 
In terms of the Pangborn hall building, associate Vice President for residential life heather rakoczy russell said using it as a swing hall will allow for updates to the other dorms that were previously unattainable. 

“[using a swing hall is] certainly not a new con­cept in the field, but it’s a new concept for us here at Notre dame,” she said. “It’s been a dream, truthfully. … Over the time that I’ve been involved in student affairs, we’ve done renova­tions, as we’ve called them, anywhere from 89 days to … 102 days. That’s kind of the window. So the idea of hav­ing somewhere between 12 and perhaps even 15 months to do the project correctly in a way that would benefit the community all at once instead of piecemeal I think is a tremendous opportunity and not one that we’ve had before.” 
These major renovations will be more significant than previous summer-long residence hall renovations, and will “seek to provide more improvements to the internal configurations of existing halls that facilitate the building of community (e.g., comparable social and study space) and modernize mechanical systems that im­pact the daily experience of students (e.g., consistency of heat, plumbing),” hoffmann harding said in the email. 
additionally, typical sum­mer renovations will con­tinue in coming years, with knott hall scheduled to receive the first round of renovations in the summer of 2016. according to the email, 18 residence halls will undergo either minor or ma­jor renovations over the next decade. 
unlike the new women’s residence hall, which will be filled with former Pangborn residents, the new men’s dorm, also set to open for the beginning of next school year, will be filled using the interhall transfer applica­tion and incoming fresh­men, similar to the process by which duncan and ryan were filled when they opened. Fr. matt kuczora, the current rector of Carroll hall, will move to new men’s hall, and Carroll will hire a new rector next year. 
according to an FaQ on the student affairs website, the new residence halls will be 71,000 gross square feet and the women’s hall will have 225 residents and the new men’s hall will have 221. The names for each hall have yet to be announced, but are scheduled to be revealed lat­er this spring. The men’s hall will be the northern-most of the two buildings, and the women’s dorm will sit just northeast of hesburgh library. 
Student focus groups and listening sessions with rec­tors helped generate the de­signs for the two new dorms, and rakoczy russell said students talking about their ideal dorm largely described “mod Quad on the inside and alumni and dillon on the outside.” The renova­tions to Walsh, badin and morrissey will largely de­pend on input from residents and leaders of those dorms in coming months and years, 
Senate 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 1 
student body president] and Nidia [ruelas, student body vice president] about my thoughts, strategies, next steps, that sort of thing,” Sehlhorst said. 
“That sort of management role, though, the kind of stuff that takes more time, will be better served with some­one much more talented than myself.” 
ricketts nominated Shewit 
“Sib has served as 
Secretary this year, 
and proved to 
be an exemplary 
team member for 
Senate, Executive 
Cabinet and 
Campus Life 
Council.” 
Dan Sehlhorst 
senior 
to fill in as chief of staff for the remainder of the 2015­2016 student government administration. 
“Sib has served as Secretary this year, and proved to be an hoffmann harding said. 
according to the student affairs website, the new dorms will feature a variety of room sizes and layouts, di­vided into six sections, each of which will have a resident assistant in addition to the two assistant rectors and rector of each new hall. The first floors of each new dorm will be mostly dedicated to communal spaces, includ­ing a two-story floor lounge, reading room, study areas and a chapel. upper floors will also include “pass­through” floor lounges 
based on the focus group results, the women’s hall “will feature full kitchens adjoined to the floor lounge on every floor, whereas the men’s hall will feature one full kitchen and three kitch­enettes adjoined to the floor lounges plus food sales in the basement,” the website states. additionally, both new dorms will include a fit­ness room, laundry, vend­ing, storage and an outdoor patio. 
Students who wish to learn more about the changes and share their thoughts can attend one of the upcom­ing information sessions with leaders from Student affairs and Facilities design & Operations. according to the Student affairs website, these sessions will be held next Tuesday at 9 p.m. in 101 debartolo hall and Jan. 21 at 9 p.m. in Carey auditorium of the hesburgh library. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu and Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
exemplary team member for Senate, Executive Cabinet and Campus life Council,” ricketts read from his nomination letter. 
“She has taken impeccable notes and promptly distrib­uted them, benefiting both the Student union and the entire student body by allowing us to function with transparent records.” 
Shewit also had a major role in launching Onward, the stu­dent government moderated online forum created to imple­ment student-suggested initia­tives, and in relaunching the student government website. 
“I am certain bryan and Nidia will be well served with Sib at their side,” Selhlhorst said in an email. Student government did not announce a replacement for Secretary at the meeting. 
later in the meeting, sopho­more Sullivan Curry was sworn in as the new student Senator for morrissey hall. 
Welsh Family hall Senator kathleen Flavin announced that the printing queue has been extended from six to 12 hours, an initiative that had been suggested from Onward. 
Contact Megan Valley  mvalley@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Focusing on the future 
Jack Rooney 
managing Editor 

President Obama scared me Tuesday night. 
In his final State of the union address, in his final full year in office — his “senior year,” if you will — he challenged Congress and the country to think and act on the future. 
“For my final address to this chamber, I don’t want to talk just about the next year,” Obama said. “I want to focus on the next five years, 10 years, and beyond. I want to focus on our future.” 
I don’t. Well, at least I don’t want to right now. It’s my actual senior year, and unlike the president, I prefer to focus not on the future, but on the now. I prefer to forget that five months from now, I will walk across a stage, receive a piece of paper and then be forced to leave this place that has become home over the past four years. 
Instead, I want to soak in the moments, the people and the experiences that will eventually become the memories of my final semester at Notre dame. I want to do this, and I will certainly try, but I know my thoughts, like those of most of my class­mates, will eventually drift to my future and to life after Notre dame. 
In fact, as I begin my last semester here, I find it hard not to focus on the future, and that, for me, is scary. The future is always uncertain, and that uncertainty always brings with it at least a little bit of fear. and now, with graduation looming in a few short months, that uncertainty is downright terrifying. 
but, I figure I do not have much of a choice other than to embrace the fear and uncer­tainty and focus on the future. I don’t really make New year’s resolutions, but I suppose if I did, this would be mine: to cherish the bittersweet end of one chapter of my life and welcome the vulnerability of a new chapter. 
I will certainly miss living under the same roof as some of my closest friends and seeing them every day. I will miss the stimulating discussions and debates that spill over from the classroom into the dining hall. I will miss the people, and I will miss this place. like any good Notre dame alumnus, though, I’ll be back. and until then, I will have a whole new world to explore and experiences to discover. 
but I am getting way ahead of myself here. yes, as much as it scares me, I will heed the president’s call and focus on the future, whatever it might hold. I don’t have a choice in the matter. but in the meantime, with the little time I still have left as a student here, I am going to take joy in seeing my friends every day, in having engaging conversations on important issues and in walking around our beautiful breathtaking campus, no mat­ter how cold and snowy it is. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Alumni ticket policy excludes Notre Dame’s oldest neighbor 
Alex Penler 
guest Columnist 

Every Saturday in the fall, no matter where I am, I try and watch Notre dame football. as a graduate of Saint mary’s College, I fell in love with Notre dame football within weeks of starting school. I had always liked football and I had watched it growing up with my mother and grandfather, both Notre dame fans. but watching Notre dame football in the stadium is a dif­ferent experience, one that touches your soul. 
around a month ago, I reached out to a few of my Notre dame friends from model united Nations. We started talking about an alumni football tailgate and we started planning. I then emailed the ticket office to ask if Saint mary’s students could apply for alumni football tickets. I was more than willing to make the donation to Notre dame, but I was told Saint mary’s alumni were ineligible to apply for alumni tickets. 
I can still remember my first football game freshman year. I had been elected by my group of friends to wait in line on a warm Wednesday afternoon to wait for our tickets with the rest of the freshmen. I had brought my religious studies reading with me as I settled in to wait for the tickets. Throughout the day, I made a number of friends while in line and was so excited to receive tickets in the eighth row. When we arrived for that first football game, my friend Cathy and I were separated from our friends by the aisle but that didn’t matter. There was a group of Notre dame boys behind us that we became close with, some of whom I still keep in touch with. We ended up beating Purdue 23-12. For me, Notre dame has always been a family, one I am proud of, and I was devastated when I found out I was ineli­gible for alumni tickets just because I went to Saint mary’s instead of Notre dame. 
For decades, Saint mary’s women have attended foot­ball games across the street, long before women were even admitted to the university. Working in the college archives, I interviewed 1950s alumni about their expe­riences on the campuses and they always talked excit­edly about the football games. Just like today, some of their best memories were of Notre dame football. 
a few months ago, on the day of the first game of the year, I was a visiting friend in boston. Notre dame was playing Texas, my father’s alma mater, and I was checking the score every few seconds. When Notre dame scored, I started cheering and one of my friends asked me “Why do you care? you didn’t go to Notre dame.” It was like a stab in the heart. I went to Saint mary’s; Notre dame football was in my blood, and I was beyond furious. I had more Notre dame football gear and watched the games more regularly than some Notre dame students. I had never even applied to Notre dame while in high school and I attended Saint mary’s for many reasons, including Notre dame foot­ball. Just because I went to Saint mary’s does not mean I am any less of a Notre dame fan than Notre dame graduates. 
It’s not an easy relationship, and one I’ve had trouble explaining once I left South bend. One of my closest friends is a Notre dame double domer. We were both accepted into the Notre dame business school together after graduation and while I went to grad school in london, she continued at Notre dame. When I men­tioned that I was ineligible for tickets, she understood my anger. It turns out that double domers can apply twice but for someone who went to every football game during my four years in South bend, I was ineligible just because I went to Saint mary’s. While the ticket of­fice looks down upon me, I’m still eligible to be part of the Notre dame alumni clubs where I live. In london, I watched the games on Sunday mornings with alumni over brunch and had pub nights talking about our time at school. No one ever looked down at me for Saint mary’s and I have never felt rejected as part of the community until now. 
Fr. hesburgh understood the relationship between the two schools. In his book, he wrote that he wanted to improve the relationship between the two schools. “I supported anything that would give the Saint mary’s women a reason to visit our campus,” he wrote. That included football. a number of Saint mary’s women have married Notre dame men and now have access to football tickets. The same is true of women who are able to join a giving society with its own football lot­tery, but for young alumni like myself, I receive noth­ing special for my four years at Saint mary’s and Notre dame. I complained while at school that I had to pay an extra hundred dollars for my student football tickets every year and I find this situation just as much of an injustice. Saint mary’s girls have been attending Notre dame football games as long as the men of Notre dame have and we deserve to be respected as fans. I hope the administration and the athletic association under­stand that this policy should be changed to let Saint mary’s alumnae attend games as easily as Notre dame alumni can. We are part of the community and deserve to be treated as such. 
Fr. hesburgh also wrote of his hopes for the future, “I can suggest, however, that the women of Notre dame make more common cause with the women of Saint mary’s. and naturally I would like to see Notre dame men continue to get along well with the women at both institutions. Overall, I would like to see cordiality re­place the sense of rivalry that seems to exist between the two campuses. If we are all one family in this world, then they are sisters.” 
he would be proud to know that Notre dame men and women are among my closest friends. hopefully next fall, when I bring a group of alumni to campus to give back to the students, I can attend the game with my friends and reminisce about all the good times we had here together. 
Alex Penler is a 2014 graduate of St. Mary’s College. Contact her at apenle01@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Thank you from Scottsdale 
dear Notre dame Fighting Irish, 
Congratulations on a great season! We know that the out­come of the battleFrog Fiesta bowl wasn’t quite what you had hoped for, but the Fighting Irish played a tremendous football game. 
We were thrilled to host the team at The Scottsdale Plaza resort. Thank you to Notre dame President John I. Jenkins, head Coach brian kelly, the team, players’ family and friends, alumni and all of the Fighting Irish fans for making this year’s battleFrog Fiesta bowl such a memorable one. We hope to see you in Scottsdale again soon. 
Mayor W.J. “Jim” Lane 
City of Scottsdale 
Rachel Sacco 

President & CEO of the Scottsdale Convention & Visitors bureau 
Jan. 13 


Breaking from the pack: the death penalty in the United States 
Katherine Smart 
guest Columnist 

The debate over capital punishment is like “Whack-a-mole.” One minute, the media is show­ing people protesting outside prisons and state­houses, and the next minute, another donald Trump story. despite the lack of consistent cov­erage, the death penalty’s presence in the legal system of the united States is reducing it from a democratic state that values individual liberty to the babylonian Empire under hammurabi’s rule. 
It does not matter whether the death penalty is classified as a preventative or retributive punish­ment — the bottom line is that it is inhumane. First, it doesn’t account for falsely accused vic­tims. While our justice system attempts to adhere to the principle of “innocent until proven guilty,” the findings of The Innocence Project, an organi­zation that deals with wrongful conviction cases, prove that this is definitely not a fail-safe system. according to The Innocence Project, 20 of the 333 people exonerated through dNa since 1989 served time on death row. That is 20 people that were in danger of being executed because of the results of a faulty test. Even if the ratio was 1 in 333 people incorrectly convicted and sentenced to death, the value of that one human life cannot be overlooked to justify the system. 
Nevertheless, if we assume everyone on death row has been rightfully committed, capital 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Support global health efforts 
health care is a hot-button topic in the u.S. today, especially with the upcoming presidential elections. We, Partners In health (PIh) Engage, challenge you to find a single newspaper where the issue is not mentioned several times a week. yet, while this is­sue is much-debated, the myopic focus on the u.S. health care system eclipses a larger issue, namely, that of global health. While articles on local or national health care exist in multitudes, there is a dearth of information being presented about global health, a symptom of the lack of concern given to the topic. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

punishment still is not a logical course of action. let’s examine the case of dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who bombed the boston marathon in 2013 and received the death penalty in June 2015. While the selfishness of his actions transcends any human vocabulary, the state should not stoop to his level to inflict punishment. demanding Tsarnaev’s life in repayment for the lives he took neither ends the cycle of violence nor brings real comfort to the victims. Even the family of martin richard, the eight-year-old who died in the attack, has called for the death penalty to be dropped since the in­evitable appeals process would just bring more grief to the family. bill richard, martin’s father, also told CNN that “until the day he [Tsarnaev] has come to recognize what he has done, there can be no reconciliation. On the day he meets his maker, may he understand what he has done, and may justice and peace be found.” 
Since the implementation of the death penalty clearly does not end the cycle of violence, why is it still around? One of the most famous argu­ments for this form of settlement is that taxpayers should not be burdened with the costs of housing a convicted criminal on a life sentence. however, this argument has been proven to be invalid. In California alone, the total cost of capital punish­ment since 1978 has totaled to $4 billion. This averages to about $308 million per execution, which is over 10 times the total amount of keeping the individual in jail on a life sentence. Therefore, the death penalty obviously does not alleviate the financial burden from the taxpayer. 
Today, the list of nations that use capital pun­ishment are ranked in the following order by number of people executed: China, Iran, Saudi arabia, Iraq, the united States, Sudan and yemen. Considering that the united States has consis­tently criticized every country on this list for human rights violations, should we really be claiming the moral high ground when we too are still punishing people with death? If we as a na­tion are truly striving to set an example for the rest of the world in regards to an individual’s right to life, no matter the circumstances, we need to evolve from seeking equal retribution to seeking appropriate rehabilitation. In the words of martin luther king, Jr., “man must evolve for all human conflict a method, which rejects revenge, aggres­sion and retaliation. The foundation of such a method is love.” Therefore, if the united States desires to truly make a stand against barbaric practices, we as a country need to abolish capital punishment. 
For more information on the death penalty, please visit the National Coalition to abolish the death Penalty, Catholic’s against Capital Punishment, The Innocence Project or last Week Tonight with John Oliver. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the College of Arts and Letters. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
We invite you to educate yourself on global health. Try to remain up to date on what is going on in the world. Consider becoming involved in organizations such as Partners in health, globemed, or Timmy global health. all these clubs can, together, help change the way we perceive global health today. From joining a club to going on a CSC Seminar to Washington d.C., there are many ways to get in­volved. action is the best reaction to global health inequalities. The only way we can fail is by a lack of care. 
Each day for more than two decades, PIh has treated and prevented tuberculosis (Tb), multidrug­resistant Tb (mdr-Tb), and hIV/Tb in some of the poorest and most vulnerable communities in the world, from russia to Peru. however, these global health efforts are futile without your support. Funding for programs like the global Fund to Fight aIdS, malaria, and Tb, are currently being debated right now in Congress. We need your support. We need advocates. We need you. 
Partners in Health Engage Notre Dame 
Jan. 5 

“It is said that if you know your enemies and know yourself, you will not be imperiled in a hundred battles; if you do not know your enemies but do know yourself, you will win one and lose one; if you do not know your enemies nor yourself, you will be imperiled in every single battle.” 
Sun Tzu general, military strategist and philosopher 




By NICK LAUREANO 
Scene Writer 

“Imma get medieval on yo a**.” you know that line, regardless of if you know its source. The pas­tiche of high and low culture — historical refer­ences and the terminology “yo a**,” respectively 
—
 provides one clue as to its source. Considering the line’s speaker is a six-and-a-half foot tall, recently-sodomized, shotgun-wielding man played by Ving rhames, there’s really no doubt that I’m talking about a Quentin Tarantino movie. and of course that movie is “Pulp Fiction,” Tarantino’s 1994 call­ing card that seemingly fulfilled the promise of the incipient indie-film boom of the 1980s and signaled the consummation of modern auteur filmmaking. That the scene described above sounds — even feels 

—
 like it belongs in a Tarantino movie alone sup­ports his auteur status; even more revealing are the clear evolutions of his themes and style. 


and if we hope to understand Tarantino’s lat­est movie, “The hateful Eight,” then understand his style we must. manipulation is at the heart of it: Tarantino prides himself on making audiences laugh just moments after he depicts extreme vio­lence. more concrete recurring aesthetic elements in his work create films that are almost sinfully dec­adent, and naming a few of these elements is a re­minder that the prudish need not purchase tickets. Non-linear storytelling, distinctive camerawork of­ten characterized by intense close-ups, memorable and at times iconoclastic use of pop music, chatty scripts, strong women, themes of coincidence or chance, extensive homage to 20th century b movies, vulgar dialogue, black comedy and, of course, vio­lence are not just fair game, but expected fare when viewing a Tarantino movie. 
Violence proves Tartantino’s most controversial and interesting theme in “reservoir dogs,” a tempo­rally fragmented tale of a heist gone awry. he casu­ally dispenses with half of his cast off-screen, then coldly depicts every gory detail of the mutually as­sured destruction of the survivors as they search for a police informant — colloquially, a rat — in their ranks. The violence, much like the dialogue, is un­mistakably Tarantinian: characters that are shot are lucky to die instantly, lest they bleed to death on the floor over an agonizing stretch of time; a hostage’s ear is severed with a razor blade in a spectacularly unsettling scene that plays out like an upbeat mu­sic video; and the climactic shootout, in a nod to Tarantino’s beloved Spaghetti Westerns, assumes the form of a mexican Standoff. 
mexican Standoffs, with their successive close-ups of the three combatants, their crescendo of orches­tral scores and their almost comically prolonged dramatic pauses, depict death in an exclusively cinematic way. That Tarantino would return to this trope in all of his subsequent movies except “death Proof” says just as much about his worldview as it does about his much-discussed stylistic influences. It would be shortsighted to claim that Tarantino’s apparent fixation on violence stems only from his obsession with 20th century genre movies, and not also from a desire to make a statement about vio­lence in art and society. 
Nonetheless, Tarantino is not without his detrac­tors, who often condemn the portrayal of violence in his films. much of the critical narrative surround­ing his career depicts a video store savant, an enfant terrible hell-bent on stripping his favorite genres — Westerns, martial arts movies and blaxploitation films, to name a few — for parts, leaving pools of blood in his moral shattering wake. Stanley kauffmann of The New republic famously accused “Pulp Fiction” of aiding “cultural slumming.” For critics like kauffmann, the escapist jaunt in the seedy underbelly of the l.a. mob seen through a kaleidoscope of influences — influences that were at times high-brow, but predominantly low-brow— could not possibly represent any relatable experi­ences. haters, as the saying goes, gonna hate. 
unfazed by kauffmann and Co. — or perhaps buoyed by the overwhelming praise his work drew from most critical circles — Tarantino soldiered on. having made a name for himself with “reservoir dogs” and “Pulp Fiction,” both rebellious, post­modernist appropriations of genre aesthetics, he became even more ambitious. “Jackie brown,” Tarantino’s underrated follow-up to the acclaimed “Pulp Fiction,” was a barrel of contradictions: an irreverent homage, an avant-garde blaxploitation movie. 
2003 saw the release of “kill bill,” a violently hilar­ious and hilariously violent two-part revenge epic that is the most unmistakably Tarantinian movie to date: its story disjointed, its characters seemingly caricatures and its body count absurdly high. as Tarantino’s own aesthetic became more refined — or, if you prefer, exaggerated — in works like “kill bill” and “death Proof,” the tune of some of his early critics changed from “all style and no substance” to “I told you so.” “…‘kill bill’ feels much too taken with its own hip vision,” Stephanie Zacharek wrote for Salon, capturing the essence of the typical com­plaint against Tarantino’s early 21st century work. 
Wrong as these critics were, an examination of Tarantino’s late work suggests he was compelled to prove the naysayers wrong, as his themes be­came more focused and his presentation less sub­tle. “Inglourious basterds,” the director’s magnum opus, was a caustic revision of history, a challeng­ing tale of revenge and the first film in his very vio­lent filmography to truly be about violence. “django unchained” pushed the envelope even further, ex­amining how race and violence bend the archetype of the hero by deconstructing both the Western and masculinity. With “django,” the ever-racially-aware Tarantino sortied into a topic thought taboo by most filmmakers: slavery. 
In his eighth and most recent film, a post-bellum Western appropriately called “The hateful Eight,” Tarantino blends disparate genres — the Western and the drawing-room mystery, the melodrama and the psychodrama, the thriller and the charac­ter study — in a way he hasn’t since “Pulp Fiction.” but now, in keeping with the recent trajectory of his career, he overtly uses this aesthetic phantasmago­ria to address themes like racism, sexism and police brutality. Tarantino, a director unabashedly infatu­ated with american popular culture, is now mak­ing films that are indubitably about america itself. Subtlety be damned. 
The plot is simple: bounty hunter John ruth, aka “The hangman,” has fugitive daisy domergue chained to his arm, the better to keep her from es­caping into the Wyoming wilderness, or even worse, from being stolen by a rival bounty hunter. ruth’s paranoia reaches a fever pitch when the pair is forced to wait out a blizzard in minnie’s haberdashery, an inn of sorts, along with six strangers, some of whom may or may not plot to set daisy free or steal ruth’s bounty for themselves. It’s no spoiler to say that the souls of all involved are at hazard. In ad­dition to ruth and domergue, the doomed include a so-called hangman, a taciturn loner, a would-be pen pal to abraham lincoln, the newly appointed town sheriff and a disgruntled former Confederate general. 
The majority of the three-hour long film takes place in the confines of the haberdashery, allow­ing ample time for these characters to share war stories and discuss politics. The quiet setting and plot mechanics call into question Tarantino’s deci­sion to shoot on 65-millimeter film, an antiquated yet regal format typically associated with epics like “lawrence of arabia” or “ben hur.” The finished product, however, is filled with such beautiful tex­ture and variations in light that you won’t even remember to wish they’d point their 65mm mega-camera at a snow-covered landscape — though you will nonetheless be thrilled when they occasionally do. and the photography provides more than just aesthetic pleasure. light that enters the haberdash­ery through cracks in the door and walls is filtered through rogue snowflakes, combining visual cues from noirs and revisionist Westerns, thus providing the audience with a framework to understand the film. 
see TaraNTINO PAGE 4 
LUCY DU | The Observer 


Tarantino 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 8 

If you were forced to put a genre label on “The hateful Eight,” it is a revisionist Western-noir. The violence isn’t of the romantic, bloodless variety seen in classical Westerns like “The man Who Shot liberty Valance” or “rio bravo.” Every punch hurts. Every bullet hits an artery. Each offense demands moral consideration and upsets your stomach. In that sense, “The hateful Eight” is reminiscent of “unforgiven,” Clint Eastwood’s Oscar-winning revisionist Western that examined the psychologi­cal effects of violence. 
but, in living up to its name, “The hateful Eight” takes things further than “unforgiven” by filling the screen with characters that are, well, hateful. Eastwood’s film provides a sympathetic surrogate for the audience in the form of The Schofield kid, a self-named wannabe-gunslinger. When the big-mouthed kid shoots a man on the toilet at point blank range, his carefully constructed façade of masculinity begins to crumble; the kid talks the talk, but he sure as hell don’t walk the walk. and when he finally cracks, slipping into alcoholism as he realizes the man on the toilet “ain’t never gonna breath again, ever,” you feel for him. If you don’t exactly forgive him when he hangs up his six-shoot­ers, you at least commend the act. 
Conversely, all of the roughly eight characters in Tarantino’s picture are despicable. The n-word is casually tossed at Samuel l. Jackson’s marquis Warren, and daisy, the sole woman, is at the re­ceiving end of even more insults. at their best these characters are sardonic (like when they mock one gullible tenant of the haberdashery who actually believed the aforementioned lincoln correspon­dence was real), at their worst they are truly, deeply hateful (like in the film’s most haunting scene, when one character tells the most disgusting yarn, just to incite a shootout). don’t expect the idealized char­acter arcs and moral revelations of “unforgiven.” Even facing death, these characters are utterly dis­gusting. remorse is not in their vocabulary. 
What’s interesting is how some critics seem to think remorse is missing from Tarantino’s own vo­cabulary, as his conscious decision to omit the overt moral teachings of films like “unforgiven” has been the source of much of the negative criticism of “The hateful Eight.” 
“‘The hateful Eight’ is too extreme, too ghoul­ishly violent, too besieged by its ensemble’s over­riding villainy, to feel like anything other than a dark chamber piece,” david Sims wrote for The atlantic. but isn’t it this unrelenting discomfort that Tarantino strives for? If “The hateful Eight” is too black-hearted for many viewers to enjoy its violent genre-trappings, isn’t that itself a powerful message? 
many viewers — including yours truly — relish vi­olence in movies, and Tarantino knows it. he knows I giggle as the bride cuts her way through the Crazy 88 in “kill bill.” he knows when fans buy tickets for “The hateful Eight” that they are paying, in part, to see violence projected in “glorious 70mm.” and he delivers. 
The rimshot? after depriving the audience of any action for its first hour and a half, “The hateful Eight” becomes too thoroughly and hatefully vio­lent to enjoy — it’s a wakeup call. We may laugh when Samuel l. Jackson waxes poetic about the killing powers of the ak-47 in “Jackie brown,” or when various lawmen kick the snot out of the big-mouthed daisy in “The hateful Eight,” but real gangland violence and police brutality are no joke. as the second half of “The hateful Eight” unfolds, Tarantino’s brand of violence is no longer effortless­ly, seductively enjoyable. It’s all too real. It turns out this video store savant is actually a true american auteur, an iconoclast whose work is much more than just pulp fiction. 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | WIll ShOrTZ 


FLING BY SPRING | rIlEy mCCurrIE 
SUDOKU | ThE mEPham grOuP 


JUST ADD WATER | ErIC CarlSON & JOhN rOddy 

HOROSCOPE | EugENIa laST 
Happy Birthday: don’t let demands or guilt stand in the way of your progress. refuse to let your emotions hold you back. you have to focus on what will bring you the highest returns. Joint ventures are best avoided, along with lending, borrowing or taking on someone else’s responsibilities. This is your year to succeed, so don’t limit your gains by being too accommodating. your numbers are 7, 12, 15, 24, 31, 37, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Silence will buy you time. as long as no one knows what you are up to, you will achieve your goals and set the stage for what’s to come. Someone will disappoint you or interfere with your plans if you share too much.      

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do whatever it takes to resolve a pending problem and get on with your life. you will meet someone while traveling or gathering information who sparks your imagination and gets you thinking about your options and possibilities. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t feel obligated to take on someone else’s responsibilities. you need to focus on your own needs before you consider helping others. don’t let anyone take advantage of your friendliness. you can’t buy respect.  

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take part in a cultural event. you will be able to improve your lifestyle and ease your stress. make it a point to spend time with people who motivate you. Emotional matters can be resolved and financial gains made. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): avoid a risky venture. Spend time doing the things that make you happy or that will enable you to be a better person. anger is a waste of time, but self-improvement will boost your resilience and the desire to be your best. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you are running on empty. make time to enjoy something that you take for granted, and it will give you a new outlook on life. Nurture relationships, and instead of trying to change people, love them for who they are.    

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a day trip that has to do with family, information or doing something you enjoy should be on your agenda. don’t let personal responsibilities bog you down. a partnership will offer you greater freedom and a promising future.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put more time and effort into your home, family and helping the people you care about the most. your unique way of doing things will not go unnoticed. a home improvement project looks promising. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will meet with opposition if you are emotionally evasive or indulgent. Try to do your own thing and let others do as they please. Personal alterations will bring good results and help ward off interference. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): reconnect with people from your past or resurrect an old plan or idea that suits the current economic trends. don’t be afraid to show emotions when dealing with matters concerning relatives. don’t overspend to impress. be consistent. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): keep busy. Time passes quickly if you do things you enjoy. Family fun or doing something that helps you relax or eases your stress should be scheduled. don’t let the little things get to you. a surprise is heading your way. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotions will spin out of control if you don’t control your reaction to what others do or say. Protect your image as well as your money and possessions. If someone needs help, offer your time, not your cash. keep your life simple. 

Birthday Baby: you are an entrepreneur and a dreamer. you are creative, unique and comprehensive. 
JUMBLE | daVId hOyT aNd JEFF kNurEk 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  The Observer P.O. box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556 
Name address City  State  Zip  



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Take fans’ say out of all-star votes 
Michael Ivey 
Sports Writer 
Fan voting has always been a thing in sports. Whether it’s voting who will be on the cover of Ea Sports madden or Nhl vid­eo games, or voting on who will participate in the Nba, mlb or Nhl all-Star games, fans have the ability to vote for what they want to see a particular sports league do. 
however, with the con­tinuing rise of social media and other technology, it might be time for sports leagues to rethink that policy. 
back in November, the National hockey league decided to change its tra­ditional all-Star game format. Instead of a single game filled with two teams consisting of all-star play­ers the fans vote for, the league announced that this year’s all-Star game will consist of three 20-minute mini games that will follow the 3-on-3 overtime format the league recently imple­mented. There will be four teams that will represent each division in the Nhl. The National hockey league staff and associates vote on who will play for their divi­sion’s team while the fans get to vote on who will cap­tain those teams. 
The change in format was a direct effort to minimize the fans’ impact on which players get selected into the all-Star game. The change came after fan voting for last year’s all-Star game voting put five Chicago blackhawks and buffalo Sabres player Zemgus girgensons into the all-Star game. girgensons was vot­ed in only because he is one of a few latvian players in the Nhl and many people in latvia voted for him. 
last week, the Nhl all-Star game rosters were announced, and while most of the names on the rosters were reasonable selections, two of the four captains the fans selected showed why fans shouldn’t vote for who plays in an all-Star game. Three cap­tains, Patrick kane of the Chicago blackhawks, alex Ovechkin of the Washington Capitals and Jaromir Jagr of the Florida Panthers, were good selections, but the last captain is John Scott of the arizona Coyotes. 
after a campaign by the fans to get him in, Scott ended up with the most all-star votes of any player. 
Scott only has one point in 11 games played this year with the Coyotes and has scored only five goals his entire career. known as a fighter and not a scorer, Scott has spent some time in the minors this year. The reason why the Nhl switched the all-Star game to the 3-on-3 format is to increase scoring, and Scott will hardly be able to help with that. The Scott situa­tion has been compared to the situation with Zemgus girgensons last year. 
The Nhl isn’t the only league with a fan voting problem. last year dur­ing fan voting for the mlb all-Star game, the league had to cancel out at least 65 million ballots when the top vote-getters for eight of the nine starting positions for the american league were all kansas City royals players, even though most of them didn’t deserve to be voted into the all-Star game. 
as long as fans have the ability to vote for who gets selected into the all-Star game, situations like this will continue to happen, and if the last couple of years are any indication, the number will continue to rise. The fans that do this think it’s funny to put a non-traditional player into an all-Star game, but it’s not. It’s just stupid. Professional sports leagues have the responsibility to showcase their best play­ers in their all-Star game. When you have players like John Scott in the all-Star game, it looks bad for the league. Not only that, but they’re robbing the fans from seeing a better player showcase their skills in the high scoring 3-on-3 format. It’s also not doing the player their voting for any favors. Scott has come out and said he doesn’t want to be voted in the all-Star game and is embarrassed by the whole situation, but will play in it nonetheless. 
Sports leagues might want to think about get­ting rid of fan voting for all-Star games altogether. Otherwise, we could soon see a Tyler Flowers or a Conor gillaspie in the mlb all-Star game. believe me, a White Sox fan — no one wants to see that. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | ClEmSON 68, dukE 63 
Blossomgame scores 17 to lead Clemson over Duke 
Associated Press 
grEENVIllE, S.C. — Jaron blossomgame scored 17 points, including the clinching dunk with 13.5 seconds left, to lift Clemson to a 68-63 victory over No. 9 duke on Wednesday night. 
Coupled with Sunday’s win over then No. 16 louisville, it’s the first time the Tigers (11-6, 4-1 atlantic Coast Conference) have beaten consecutive ranked opponents since closing the 1989 season with victo­ries over duke and georgia Tech. 
This one started like a typical blue devils blow­out, with duke taking a 28­16 lead midway through the opening half. Instead, the Tigers hung tough to beat duke (14-3, 3-1) for the sec­ond time in three seasons. 
after blossomgame’s jam, matt Jones missed a 3-pointer from the left cor­ner. Clemson’s avry holmes got the rebound and hit two foul shots with 1.8 sec­onds left to put things out of reach. 
grayson allen led duke with 17 points, three off his season average. 
Freshman brandon Ingram scored 16 points for the blue devils, all but one in the first half. 
donte grantham scored 16 points and landry Nnoko had 12 points, 13 rebounds and four blocks for the Tigers. Clemson looks like it may give supporters an­other contender to cheer for after the football team came up short in monday night’s national champion­ship game. 
grantham’s 3-pointer tied the game 50-50 before blossomgame hit a long-range basket to put Clemson ahead for good, 53-50 with 
7:24 left. 
Jones was fouled while making a layup that pulled duke within 62-61 with 1:44 left, but he couldn’t com­plete the three-point play to tie it. 
duke came in having won seven of its past eight games with Clemson and looked like it would make quick work of the Tigers. The blue devils made 10 of 11 shots — six of them 3-pointers — to take the 28-16 lead. 
Clemson outscored duke 17-7 over the final 8 minutes of the half to tighten things up. 
duke’s standout freshman Ingram had 15 points in the opening period, scoring about anytime he wanted — he hit six of his eight shots. but he picked up his second and third fouls with 90 sec­onds left until the half. 
It was just the third time this season the blue devils were held to 35 points or fewer in the opening half. They lost two of the other three times, first to kentucky and then utah. ... duke entered leading the aCC with almost six blocks a game. It had just one against the Tigers. 
blossomgame surpassed the 800-point mark for his career with his 17 points in the win over louisville last Sunday. ... The victory over the Cardinals was the 100th for coach brad brownell with the Tigers. 
duke got positive news on amile Jefferson’s foot injury, but krzyzewski still cautioned it will be some time before he returns to the lineup. The coach said Jefferson’s right foot frac­ture was healing well and he could soon get out of the walking boot. “but he can’t play basketball. So it’s a while,” krzyzewski said. 
The Tigers looked lost last month when they fell to three Southeastern Conference teams in alabama, South Carolina and georgia and seemed like they’d strug­gle in aCC play. but Nnoko called a player’s only meet­ing before the holiday break that seems to have galva­nized Clemson. 
“landry Nnoko’s been a big part of our voice,” brownell said. “he’s a voice of reason and a voice of consistency.” 

NBA | WIZardS 106, buCkS 101 
Wall scores 19, beal returns as Wizards beat bucks 
Associated Press 
WaShINgTON — John Wall scored 19 points and backcourt mate bradley beal had 11 in his return from in­jury to help the Washington Wizards beat the milwaukee bucks 106-101 on Wednesday night. 
beal came off the bench and played 22 minutes in his first game since dec. 9. he had been sidelined with a stress reaction in his lower right leg. 
ramon Sessions added 15 points and Jared dudley had 13 for Washington, including two late 3-pointers to help preserve a third straight win. 
khris middleton scored 25 points to lead milwaukee, which allowed 36 points off a season-high 27 turnovers in its fourth loss in the last six games. 

greg  monroe  added  21  
points  and  12  rebounds  
for the  bucks, who erased  

a 19-point second-quarter deficit to take the lead by the end of the third. 
milwaukee got within three in the final moments before beal hit a pair of free throws with 1.6 seconds to play. 
Washington trailed 74-71 after three quarters before opening the fourth on a 22-6 run. 
Sessions’ dunk off Nene’s outlet feed gave the Wizards a 75-74 lead. later in the spurt, Wall kicked out to Sessions for an open 3-point­er before driving the lane and flushing home a strong, left-handed dunk that made it 93-80 with 5:29 left. 
milwaukee scored the last 11 points of the third to take its first lead since the open­ing period. 
giannis antetokounmpo scored 13 points in the quar­ter. middleton’s turnaround jumper put the bucks up 72-71, and rashad Vaughn drove and dished to John henson for a dunk in the fi­nal seconds. 
Wizards coach randy Wittman said center marcin gortat was day to day after missing his second game with an infection in his left knee. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PaId adVErTISEmENT 



NBA | CElTICS 103, PaCErS 94 

Celtics snap four-game skid with victory over Pacers 
Associated Press 
bOSTON — Isaiah Thomas scored 28 points, Jae Crowder matched his career high with 25 and the boston Celtics snapped a four-game losing streak with a 103-94 win over the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday night. 
amir Johnson had a sea­son-high 18 rebounds and scored 14 points for the Celtics, who beat the Pacers for the first time this sea­son after losing the first two meetings. 
Paul george led Indiana 23 points. george hill had 13 and monta Ellis 12 for the Pacers, who wore their old-fashioned hickory high School uniforms from the movie “hoosiers.” 
boston closed with a 12-0 run over the final 1:46. 
The Pacers led 94-91 with just more than 2 minutes to play before they turned the ball over on consecu­tive possessions, leading to a pair of breakaway dunks by boston. The first was by Johnson and the second by marcus Smart, giving the Celtics the lead with 1:32 to play. 

With the Celtics clinging to a one-point lead, george stole an inbounds pass, but Crowder stole the ball back from him on the other end and went in for an un­contested dunk that gave boston a 97-94 edge. 
after george missed a 3-point attempt, Thomas scored in the lane to push boston’s lead to 99-94 with 32 seconds to play. 
Earlier in the quarter, Indiana went on an 8-0 run over 3 1/2 minutes to grab the lead for the first time since early in the game. hill’s basket in the lane put the Pacers up 84-82. 
george scored the Pacers’ first 14 points of the third and had 17 in the period, helping them slice an eight-point halftime deficit to 78­76 entering the fourth. he went 5 for 7 from the floor — with two 3-pointers — after missing six of seven in the opening half. 
The Celtics built a 40-28 advantage early in the sec­ond, but the Pacers twice trimmed it to one before boston went into halftime with a 57-49 lead. 
rodney Stuckey injured his right foot in Tuesday’s win over Phoenix and didn’t make the trip. ... Indiana coach Frank Vogel said george is feeling a bit fa­tigued after missing most of last season with a leg in­jury. “he’s reported that to me, that his legs feel a little heavy,” Vogel said. “but ev­erybody in the league goes through that. I don’t think it’s a big deal because of his injury, but that could be a factor.” 
Celtics: boston coach brad Stevens put Jared Sullinger back in the starting lineup in place of F kelly Olynyk after a five-game stretch. Stevens’ reason was simple: a 1-4 record. “Just wanted to see if I could find a little bit different rhythm,” the coach said. “I don’t think it’s anything kelly did.” ... There was a moment of si­lence for former butler play­er andrew Smith, who died Tuesday after a battle with cancer. Smith played on two teams that Stevens coached in the NCaa title game. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | alabama 73, SOuTh CarOlINa 50 
Alabama upsets No. 19 South Carolina, 73-50 
Associated Press 
TuSCalOOSa, ala. — riley Norris hit his first seven 3-point attempts and scored a career-high 27 points to lead alabama to a 73-50 upset of previ­ously unbeaten No. 19 South Carolina on Wednesday night. 
The Crimson Tide (10-5, 1-2 Southeastern Conference) got the first league win of avery Johnson’s debut sea­son in stunningly easy fash­ion. The upset leaves No. 10 Smu as the nation’s only un­beaten major college team. 
The gamecocks (15-1, 2-1) missed their first 12 shots of the second half and went more than 11 minutes with­out a field goal starting be­fore the break. They ended an 8-minute scoring drought after halftime down 48-22. 
South Carolina never cut it below 18 after that. 

Norris made the most of his first start of the sea­son, shooting 8 of 11 on 3s. he also grabbed seven re­bounds. Justin Coleman added 14 points. 
michael Carrera led the gamecocks with 14 points and 10 rebounds. 
The gamecocks didn’t come close to their previous scoring low of 65 points. 
Norris hit a 3-pointer from a couple of feet beyond the arc to punctuate a 13-0 alabama run to open the second half. It forced coach Frank martin to call time out, but the South Carolina shots never started falling. 
Norris had led the Tide to a 35-22 halftime lead af­ter hitting five consecutive 3-pointers in the first nine minutes. 
alabama didn’t need a big game from leading scorer retin Obasohan, who had just four points. 
South Carolina’s top scor­er, Sindarius Thornwell, also struggled. he scored two points on 1-of-6 shooting. 
The gamecocks struggled across the board in shoot­ing. They made just 19 of 53 shots (35.8 percent), 3 of 18 3-pointers (16.7 percent) and 9 of 17 free throws (52.9 percent). 
Norris matched his ca-reer-high of 18 points by halftime, triple his season average coming into the game. The sophomore al­ready topped his previous high of five field goals in the half, going 6 of 8. 
South Carolina: Started 1-of-8 shooting with seven turnovers in first seven min­utes, falling into a 13-2 hole that kept expanding. had reached program’s highest ranking since 1998. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | VIllaNOVa 83, marQuETTE 68 
Villanova keeps perfect conference record with win 
Associated Press 
VIllaNOVa, Pa. — Villanova pulled away from marquette late and just may be running away early with the big East. 
kris Jenkins scored 20 points and Jalen brunson had 14 to lead No. 6 Villanova to an 83-68 win over marquette on Wednesday night. 
The Wildcats (15-2, 5-0 big East) blew a 16-point lead and trailed early in the sec­ond half until they took con­trol late in game to win for the 36th straight time at the Pavilion. 
daniel Ochefu grabbed 13 rebounds and the Wildcats hit eight 3-pointers to win their seventh straight game. 
“We are not playing great,” coach Jay Wright said. “but we are playing together.” 
That teamwork has Villanova on a 20-game win­ning streak against big East teams and the only team un­defeated this season in con­ference play. 
The golden Eagles (12­5, 2-3) trailed by one with 
12:38 left in the game before the Wildcats blew the game open. marquette missed 10 straight shots and went more than 8 minutes without a field goal. 
marquette had won two in a row, including a 65-64 vic­tory last week over then-No. 8 Providence. The golden Eagles stormed back from an awful start and led by one at halftime. 
luke Fischer’s dunk with 
12:38 left brought marquette to 50-49. The one-point game turned into a 19-point lead for Villanova in about 8 minutes. 
The Wildcats tightened up defensively, dumped the ball inside and sank a steady stream of free throws to brush off their latest threat. 
“you can see teams really fired up to play us,” Wright said. “marquette, they brought it, man. They weren’t going to go away.” 
marquette missed 10 straight shots over 8 min­utes until duane Wilson and Sandy Cohen buried consec­utive 3s. by then, the damage was done and the Wildcats extended their domination in the series. 
“They really converged, we had wide-open shots,” marquette coach Steve Wojciechowski said. “We just didn’t make them.” 
haanif Cheatham led marquette with 17 points. 
Villanova, the two-time de­fending big East champion, opened the game like it was going to blow out the golden Eagles. 
Jenkins and brunson each hit two 3-pointers in the first 
3:30 of the game and the Wildcats raced to a 23-7 lead before the first half reached the midpoint mark. 
marquette, playing bet­ter after losing its first two big East games, refused to fold just yet. The golden Eagles waited out Villanova’s hot streak and went on one of their own, making five straight baskets that sliced the deficit to single digits. 
Traci Carter tied it at 29 with a 3 and henry Ellenson was left alone to dash toward the basket and score off a re­bound with 1 second left that put marquette ahead 38-37 at the break. 
Villanova squashed that upset bid in the second half. 
“We still have a lot of work to do,” brunson said. 
Chicago bulls play­ers Jimmy butler, a former marquette star, and Joakim Noah attended the game. The bulls play the 76ers on Thursday. ... guard Jajuan Johnson sat out with a neck injury suffered during the St. John’s game. ... Carter, a Philly native, had nearly 40 friends and family at the game. he was ejected late in the game. “as the game is disjointed a bit, a veteran player is able to stay on an even keel,” Wojciechowski said. “I thought he got rattled a little bit.” 
The Wildcats held a mo­ment of silence for former butler star andrew Smith, who died Tuesday after a two-year battle with cancer. ... Ochefu left midway through the second half after a hard fall and held his tailbone as he walked off the court. 
The Wildcats improved to 13-0 when holding a team to less than 70 points. They had allowed 59.7 points over the first six games of their win­ning streak. 




W Bball 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 16 
where we are right now,” mcgraw said. “We played two very good games. The last two specifically, against Virginia and North Carolina, we played very well defen­sively. I think we’ve been really focused, we’ve re­bounded well. and my main concern was that before that we hadn’t been playing as well defensively, so I’m hap­py to have really concentrat­ed on that area and improved there. 
“I’m hoping to see more of the same things defensively that I saw against Virginia and North Carolina. I think every game in the aCC is tough, especially on the road, so we really need to be ready defensively.” 
The Eagles (12-3, 0-2) start­ed strong, losing only one nonconference game to No. 14 Oklahoma but have yet to record a win over conference opposition this season, los­ing by more than 20 points to both Virginia Tech and No. 16 Florida State. recent history is on the side of the Irish, who have won the last six contests between the two teams by an average of 36.7 points. 
While Notre dame enters the game as the nation’s lead­er in 3-point field goal per­centage with a 44.5 percent mark, on course for the high­est number of 3-pointers in program history and the best 3-point percentage since the national championship-win­ning 2000-2001 season, the Eagles have proven to be for­midable perimeter shooters as well. The Eagles have con­verted 38.2 percent of their 3-point shots, with junior guard kelly hughes making 44 of her 101 attempts this season. however, mcgraw said boston College’s inside game, led by freshman center mariella Fassoula, cannot be overlooked either. 
“They’re a little different from last year,” mcgraw said. “They’re a very good 3-point shooting team, kelly hughes is one of the best guards in this league, she’s a great 3-point shooter. She’s been deadly from the 3-point line, but they’ve added mariella Fassoula, a post player who’s been deadly, she just won aCC rookie of the week, she’s about [6-foot-4] and really playing well inside. She gives them a really good inside-outside combination and that’s what makes them ex­tremely dangerous.” 
mcgraw said the balanced Irish offense should be key for her team tonight. Through 16 games, four players are averaging more than double figures scoring per contest, while two more average more than nine points. mcgraw said freshman guards marina mabrey and arike Ogunbowale have played a major part in providing that offensive balance. 
“Offensively we’ve been very consistent, and the freshmen have really been contributing so far,” mcgraw said. “They’re looking really comfortable now, and they just seem to keep getting better every single game. 

“The thing that’s been good for us is that we’ve been bal­anced. We often have four or five people in double figures and our lead scorer only get­ting 14 or 15 in a particular game because we’ve really been sharing the ball well. I don’t think you can focus on one person when everyone’s shooting the ball well. I’m come out of the gate yet with a lot going on, so that’s some­thing I’d still like us to im­prove on: getting off to a good start.” 

The game tips off at 7 
p.m. Thursday at the Conte Forum in Chestnut hill, massachusetts. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING | VIrgINIa 182.5, Nd 170.5 
Notre dame falls against conference foe in dual meet 
Observer Staff Report 
In its first dual meet of the new year, Notre dame fell narrowly at Virginia on Friday and Saturday, 182.5­170.5, in Charlottesville, Virginia. 
The Irish snagged eight wins throughout the two-day meet against their confer­ence foes, starting with a win in the opening swimming event, where the 200-yard freestyle relay team touched the wall first in 1:21.29 to earn 11 points for Notre dame’s effort. 
Virginia snagged victories in four straight events to pull ahead after five pool events, but Notre dame stemmed the tide with a win in the 100­yard freestyle from freshman Tabahn afrik, who held off sophomore teammate Justin Plaschka by five hundredths of a second in a tight finish to secure a one-two finish for the Irish. 
From there, Notre dame built some momentum in the meet, with freshman matthew grauslys grabbing a victory in the 200-yard but­terfly, finishing in 1:47.39, before a win in the 400-yard medley relay pushed the Irish to three consecutive event victories. 

afrik followed his earlier victory with another one, this time in the 50-yard freestyle, touching the wall in :20.68 to hold off Virginia junior matt lockman for the win. Junior Trent Jackson made it back-to-back victories once more for Notre dame when he won the 200-yard breaststroke in 2:03.11 before grauslys notched his second win of the meet in the 100-yard but­terfly, winning in :48.32. 
Notre dame’s penultimate win of the meet came from senior bogac ayhan, who won the 100-yard breaststroke in :48.99, while the Irish closed the meet with a win in the 400-yard freestyle relay, sneaking in with a time just under three minutes to hold off the Cavaliers’ a team. 
The Irish effort, however, was not enough to pull out the win, as Virginia notched wins in the other 11 events on the day, providing the edge that propelled the Cavaliers to the overall victory in the two-day meet. 
Outside the race winners, Notre dame was boosted by second-place finishes from junior kevin bradley in the 200- and 400-yard in­dividual medleys, sopho­more robert Whitacre in the 200-yard backstroke and 100 backstroke, Plaschka in the 100-yard butterfly and junior reed Fujan in the 200-yard freestyle while the 200-yard medley relay team also placed second. 
The Irish return to the pool Saturday when they host nonconference foe Northwestern in a dual meet at rolfs aquatic Center, with the first race underway at noon. 
really happy about the way we’re sharing things.” 
mcgraw said she hopes to see the Irish start well, some­thing she believes has not happened often enough this season. 
“I think it’s so important that we set a tone early in the game,” mcgraw said. “That’s something that we haven’t done yet. We haven’t really 
W Swimming 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 16 
in the 100-yard breast­stroke with a time of 1:04.39. 
This was the first meet for the team since women’s coach mike litzinger took over the head coaching du­ties of the men’s team as well, following the leave of absence taken by for­mer men’s head coach matt Tallman. 
Next on the schedule for Notre dame will be a home meet against Northwestern. The last time the Irish com­peted against the Wildcats was last year in a tri-meet in ann arbor, michigan, where they were narrowly defeated 154-146. 
Northwestern, 4-1 in dual meets on the season, is com­ing off a win at the Florida atlantic Fun Invite that took place before Christmas and will begin the new year com­peting against the Irish. The meet will be this Saturday, beginning at noon, at rolfs aquatic Center. 




M Bball 
CONTINuEd FrOm PagE 16 
the middle and four small­er players around him. 
“We played tonight a lot like we played against [boston College],” brey said. “We kind of yo-yoed bonzie [Colson] and Zach [auguste], now those guys will still play together, but there’s something about spacing. When you can open that floor up, it really helps us.” 
Though the Irish spaced the floor, they struggled to make shots and ended the half ahead 30-27, despite shooting just 32 percent from the field. 
Notre dame came out strong in the second half as pick-and-rolls between junior guard demetrius Jackson and auguste led to three consecutive dunks from auguste. Jackson had only two points in the first half but finished with 18 points, nine rebounds and eight assists. 
“We just want [Jackson] to take what the defense gives him,” brey said. “I thought he was kicking out to guys most of the night and get­ting them looks. I thought he got Zach some great stuff, he jump started Zach with some screen roll stuff, I thought that was very important.” 
The Irish improved their shooting percentage to 48 percent in the second half, but they could not pull away from the yellow Jackets as georgia Tech answered ev­ery run the Irish made. 
Then, with three minutes left in the game, Notre dame began to pull away with a 6-0 run on six free throws by auguste and Jackson. brey pointed to the team’s ability to make clutch free throws and defensive composure down the stretch as key fac­tors in the victory. 
“I think it’s a huge step for us,” brey said of his team’s 28-of-32 performance at the line Wednesday. “We were saying over there on the bench, ‘we need to win one of these’ to kind of see if we could win one of these. We haven’t been able to do it. I thought we were great, we got big defensive rebounds, I was thrilled with how we shot pressure-free throws tonight. We have not done that. hopefully that’s an area where we’re more con­fident now. We had to look like we’re going to put one away, and it’s the first time this group has done that so something to build on I hope.” 
The Irish will look to build on their latest win as they travel to No. 9 duke, who fell on the road at Clemson last night, this weekend. Tipoff is scheduled for 2 p.m. Saturday at Cameron Indoor Stadium in durham, North Carolina. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

NBA | NuggETS 112, WarrIOrS 110 
Curry scores 38, but Warriors lose for third time 
Associated Press 
dENVEr — Stephen Curry was just about unstoppable in the fourth quarter, ex­cept near the very end. 
Curry scored 20 of his 38 points in the final pe­riod but lost the ball under defensive pressure from danilo gallinari in the game’s final moments, and the denver Nuggets hung on to hand the golden State Warriors their third loss of the season, 112-110 on Wednesday night. 
“It was a great opportu­nity to try to tie the game or take the lead,” Curry said about the last of his eight turnovers. “got stuck be­tween looking for the open man and handling the ball, and one little mishandle and gallinari got it.” 
The defending Nba cham­pion Warriors (36-3) had won seven straight since their previous defeat, 114­91 at dallas on dec. 30. 
harrison barnes added 18 points and klay Thompson had 17 for the Warriors. 
gallinari led the Nuggets with 28 points but it was his defense at the game’s criti­cal moment that made the difference, Nuggets coach michael malone said. 
“gallo has proven this year he can guard most players on the floor,” malone said. “and he did a great job. he got into a stance, forced a deflection, was first to the floor and comes out with the loose ball. Those are winning plays. Those are what separate teams and we had enough winning plays tonight where we were able to withstand the furious comeback that they made.” 
Will barton added 21 points for the Nuggets, who snapped a four-game losing streak to the Warriors de­spite being outscored 37-29 in the final period. 
a dunk by brandon rush gave the Warriors a 68­64 lead, but denver out­scored golden State 19-5 over the last 5 1/2 minutes of the third quarter to take a 10-point lead into the fourth. 
The Warriors, howev­er, kept chipping away as Curry led the charge. 
layups by Curry and andrew bogut cut the defi­cit to 102-97 with 2:05 re­maining. Curry and barton then traded 3-pointers be­fore darrell arthur hit a jumper with a minute left for a 109-102 denver lead. 
but the Warriors fought back, getting a layup from barnes and a 3 from Curry sandwiched around a Nuggets turnover, pulling to 109-107 with 37.1 seconds left. 
and it appeared the Warriors had the Nuggets right where they wanted. 
“That fourth was a bar­rage of 3s,” denver forward kenneth Faried said. “Steph stepped over halfcourt and made one and I was just like, ‘man, not this again.’ but we held them off.” 
With defense. 
With the Warriors in po­sition to tie or go in front, gallinari stole the ball from Curry. 
“I think he lost the ball and it came towards me and I just dove to the ball,” gallinari said. 
he started a fast break that ended in gary harris, who finished with 19 points, being fouled and making a pair of free throws. 
Thompson hit a 3-pointer with 3.4 seconds remaining to pull the Warriors to 111­
110. They fouled gallinari intentionally and he made one of two free throws, but Thompson missed a long jumper at the buzzer. 
“It felt good,” Thompson said. “If I got my legs into a little bit more, I think it would have gone in. It was on line, it was just short.” 
The Warriors, who trailed by as many as 10 earlier, pulled to 55-54 at halftime on barnes’ jumper in the final seconds of the second quarter. 
gallinari had 15 points in the first half, including a reverse layup that preced­ed barnes’ final shot in the second quarter to keep the Nuggets on top at the break. 
draymond green was not available because of a scheduled rest day. ... Curry hit a 3-pointer in his 93rd consecutive road game, ex­tending his Nba record. ... leandro barbosa returned from a shoulder injury, see­ing his first game action since Christmas. ... barnes scored in double figures for a third straight game. 
J.J. hickson was side­lined after undergoing a root canal earlier in the day. ... denver added depth at guard by signing Sean kilpatrick to a 10-day con­tract. ... Jusuf Nurkic left early in the fourth quarter with an ankle injury. 


NBA | TraIl blaZErS 99, JaZZ 85 
Trail blazers top Jazz 
Associated Press 
POrTlaNd, Ore. — damian lillard had 21 points and 10 assists, and the Portland Trail blazers shook off a slow first half to beat the utah Jazz 99-85 on Wednesday night. 
CJ mcCollum added 15 points and eight assists for the blazers, who led by as many as 20 in the second half af­ter the teams traded the lead in the first. It was Portland’s second consecutive victory following a three-game losing streak. 
gordon hayward had 19 points for utah, which had won two straight. The Jazz, who were coming off an 86­74 victory over the lakers in los angeles, have not strung together three consecutive wins this season. 
Jazz center rudy gobert, playing in his fourth game since missing 18 with a sprained left knee, had three points and eight rebounds. but utah remained without derrick Favors, who missed his 11th game because of a sore back. he was listed as questionable before the game. 
The blazers were coming off a 115-110 victory monday over Oklahoma City, notable be­cause lillard scored 17 points — including five 3-pointers — in the last 3:07. he has played in five games since missing seven with plantar fasciitis in his left foot. 
The teams kept it close in a rather lackluster first half, with neither one able to ex­tend its advantage into dou­ble digits. 
There was a scary mo­ment midway through the first quarter when hayward was slow to get up after it appeared he took an elbow. hayward signaled to come out, but remained on utah’s bench, and several minutes later returned to the game. 
gobert elbowed mason Plumlee late in the first half for a flagrant foul. 
gerald henderson’s 3-pointer gave the blazers a 37-30 lead, their biggest of the game to that point. Portland led 43-37 at halftime, paced by henderson’s 10 points off the bench. 


MEN’S BASKETBALL | Nd 72, gEOrgIa TECh 64 
Auguste leads ND in bounce-back win 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Writer 
after an offensive explo­sion this past Saturday in a loss to Pittsburgh, Notre dame went with a far dif­ferent approach Wednesday night against georgia Tech, grinding out a 72-64 victory against the yellow Jackets at Purcell Pavilion. 
georgia Tech (11-6, 1-3 aCC) came to Notre dame with plenty of momentum, having just beaten then-No. 5 Virginia. but it was the Irish (11-5, 2-2) who ulti­mately pulled out the much-needed win after going 3-3 over the winter break. 
“It was a big game,” senior forward Zach auguste, who led all scorers with 24 point and chipped in nine re­bounds, said. “Especially to bounce back. and hopefully we can use this as a boost and a confidence builder go­ing into duke [on Saturday] now.” 
after the loss to Pittsburgh, Irish head coach mike brey changed his starting lineup and gave freshman forward matt ryan the nod in place of sophomore forward bonzie Colson. ryan said he was not nervous going into his first game as a starter. 
“I’m just very calm,” ryan said. “If I get too antsy, I’ll go out there and mess up, but I just stayed calm and played my game and just do what I’ve done.” 
ryan came out shooting, but went only 1-of-4 from the field in the first half. Though his shooting started cold, ryan focused on de­fense and totaled a career high in rebounds with seven. 
“I got beat the first time by one of their big guys, he just pushed me under,” ryan said. “but then after that, we were up 9-4, I said, ‘Not anymore,’ and I got five in a row after that. It was just all about boxing out and being in position to go and get the ball.” 
From the beginning, it was a defensive struggle as both teams struggled to find their rhythm on offense. For most of the first half, the Irish went with a four-around-one offense with auguste in 
see m bball PAGE 15 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING | VIrgINIa 243, Nd 105 
Irish struggle in loss to Cavs 
Observer Staff Report 
after taking more than a month off between meets, Notre dame made the trip to highly-rated Virginia this past weekend following a short holiday break, where it fell to the Cavaliers, 243-105. 
The dual meet, which came on the heels of an Irish training session in Naples, Florida, saw the Cavaliers pull out a win on their senior day behind the leadership of senior Olympic hope­ful Courtney bartholomew. Virginia’s win kept the host Cavaliers unbeaten in dual meets, while Notre dame fell to 1-2 on the season in such contests. 
Over the course of the two-day meet, the Irish snagged wins in both the diving platforms, as senior diver lindsey Streepey won the 3-meter with a score of 322.95, while senior diver Emma gaboury took the 1-meter with a score of 282.07 points. Streepey also fin­ished second in the 1-meter, just behind her teammate, with a score of 273.60. 
In the pool, the Irish got one individual win from ju­nior katie miller, who won the 400-yard individual medley in 4 minutes and 32 seconds, and a relay win in the 400-yard freestyle, which the Irish a team won in 3:29.16. 
The Irish also had a sec-ond-place finish from fresh­man Sofia revilak in the 100-yard butterfly, with a time of 55.20 seconds. 
The a relay teams in the 200-yard free relay, 400­yard medley relay and 200­yard medley relay all placed third for the Irish. The Irish had third-place finishers in both backstroke events, with junior Catherine mulquin touching the wall in 57.04 in the 100-yard event, and freshman alice Trueth fin­ishing at 2:00.04 in the 200­yard race. Junior danielle margheret took third place 
see W SWImmINg PAGE 14  

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame looks for hot start on road at BC 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer
 The two best 3-point shooting teams in the aCC will go head-to-head tonight as No. 3 Notre dame trav­els to boston College for the 1,200th game in program history. 
For the Irish (15-1, 4-0 aCC), the game marks the beginning of the second half of the regular season, having reached the halfway point with only one defeat, to No. 1 Connecticut. Notre dame is currently one of only two teams undefeated in aCC play, along with No. 23 louisville. The Irish come into the game after comfort­able wins over Virginia and North Carolina by 28 and 34 points, respectively, and Irish head coach muffet mcgraw said her team’s de­fensive performance in both outings was a particular highlight. 
“I feel really good about 
see W bball PAGE 13 





