the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre dame and and report saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 50, issue 130 | mondAy, APril 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students compete in Fisher regatta 
Thirty-six homemade boats race across Saint Mary’s Lake to raise money for St. Adalbert’s 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
thirty-six boats raced across saint mary’s lake on saturday afternoon at Fisher hall’s regatta for a crowd of over 1,000 people, according to Fisher regatta commis­sioner ryan o’donnell. 
“the turnout was a lot nicer than last year because there was no rain,” he said. “there were a lot more rec­tors than in previous years that showed up to watch their dorms and there were a lot of families at the finish line, a lot of kids and older adults.” 
o’donnell estimated that between 12 and 15 boats sank at one point or another during the race. 
the purpose of the regatta, “along with having fun,” is to raise money for st. adalbert’s, a local catholic school. last year, the event raised $5,000 renovate the gym, according to aaron collier, co-director of advertising and photogra­phy for the regatta. 
“last year, we redid their basketball court floor and we’ll continue to do more, along with our partnership with mcglinn hall,” collier said. “so as we continue to do these things, it’s really inspi­rational, it’s a lovely event.” 
“this year we’re raising money to renovate the front entrance,” o’donnell said “we’re trying to give them a foyer-type entrance so when you get in, you have to be allowed into the rest of the building. it’ll make the school a lot safer and more secure. 
“we have, so far, raised $7,000,” he said. “that’s 
see regatta PAGE 3 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
Students from O’Neill Hall paddle across Saint Mary’s Lake as part of the 26th annual Fisher Regatta  during AnTostal Week on Saturday afternoon. A group of Old College seminarians won the men’s division. 



Employees receive disability resources 

By CATHERINE OWERS 
senior news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the sixth day in a series on dis­ability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s story focuses on the resources avail­able for faculty and staff with disabilities at the University. 
while students with dis­abilities rely on the sara bea center for students with disabilities for accommodations, university employees with disabili­ties look to the office of 
institutional  equity  for  
resources.  
monique  Frazier,  the  

americans with disabilities act (ada) program manager, said she joined the office in 2014. 
“my main role is to work with faculty and staff and their department and physician 
see disability PAGE 4 


survey raises questions 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
editor-in-chief 
in the aftermath of the release of 2015 campus climate survey results, the community’s atten­tion turned harrowing numbers suggesting notre dame is not different from other schools in terms of the national campus sexual assault epidemic. the survey found 25 percent of fe­male student respondents — 347 respondents — reported experi­encing non-consensual sexual contact or sexual intercourse while enrolled at the university. six percent of male respondents 
— 60 respondents — also report­ed experiencing non-consensual sexual contact or sexual inter­course while a student. 
but, while 407 students report­ed experiencing sexual violence, only 43 respondents said they had been involved in a university sexual misconduct investigation or administrative hearing pro­cess as either a respondent or a complainant. 
of the survey respondents who had been involved in the university conduct process, 40 percent reported they were somewhat dissatisfied or dis­satisfied with the impartiality of the administrative investigation 
— 54 percent of the students who identified themselves as respon­dents in cases. additionally, 58 percent of students who had been involved in an investigation said they were either somewhat dis­satisfied or dissatisfied with the timeliness of the investigation. 
according to the survey 
see survey PAGE 4 


Director offers seminar 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 
news writer 
diane Fox, director of the office for student success at saint mary’s, is leading a five-day summer seminar called “access to success” that will cover what col­lege students need to be academically successful. the seminar is offered June 13 through June 16 to local students who are beginning college, students who’ve had a difficult start to col­lege and those returning to college after being away. 
according to Fox, the over­all goal of the seminar is to teach students that “rather than jeopardize your fu­ture, this seminar can em­power you with the skills, strategies, and psychology of your success in college-and perhaps, life.” 
Fox sees the program as a way to give back to the com­munity that she has been a part of her whole life. 
“i’ve been a south bend resident all my life and this is one of my ways that i am 
see success PAGE 4 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Kayla mullen                      cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu,  zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Is a hot dog a sandwich? 

Brian Pulawski 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“no, you’re only using one slice of bread and a cylindrical piece of meat.” 
Utkarsh Sonkiya 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“is cereal a soup?” 
Joey Curci 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“no.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Olivia Perham 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“it depends on how many things you put on it. if there’s just ketchup and mustard, you have a hot dog.” 
Denise Dorotheo 
sophomore 
cavanaugh hall 
“what is it catagorized in if it’s not a sandwhich?” 
Alex Murphy 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“nope.” 
RACHEL O’GRADY | The Observer 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students warm up and stunt during tryouts for the three cheerleading squads Tuesday night in The Pit at the Joyce Center. The squads were announced Sunday after weeks of tryouts. 

Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
courtney becker victoria llorens lucas masin-moyer 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lauren weldon Jimmy Kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

A Sojurn in Italy Staff Mass Happy Mother’s Day Canines and Caffeine Study at the Snite 
rachel o’grady claire radler 

Snite Museum of Art Flanner Hall Fieldhouse Mall/Clarke Brownson Hall Museum 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. 12:10 p.m. - 12:55 p.m. Memorial Fountain Courtyard Snite Museum of Art Works of art Open to all faculty and 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
Corrections 

portraying the Italian staff, located in St. Mother’s Day A study break with Free study spaces, 
the observer regards itself as 

countryside. Andre Chapel. festivities. dogs and coffee. coffee and snacks. 
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Easter 1916: The Irish Snite Salon Series Physics Colloquium Mindful Meditation Diavolo/Architecture 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Rebellion Snite Mueseum of Art Nieuwland Hall of Coleman-Morse in Motion 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Library 5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Science Center DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
12:10 p.m. - 12:55 p.m. Students, faculty 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Arts Center. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. Explore manuscripts and staff will discuss Discussion on Open to students, 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
from the 1916 rebellion. works of art. astrophysics. faculty and staff. Dance performance. 

ndsmcobserver.com | mondAy, APril 25, 2016 | the observer 

Law student organizes Students for Trump chapter 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
as november creeps closer and the 2016 presidential election looms, students across the nation are sup­porting their candidates of choice through a number of different channels. 
second-year law student michael diraimo is hop­ing to spur that kind of sup­port for current republican front-runner donald trump on notre dame’s cam­pus through his recently-founded students for trump movement. 
“i started a students for trump chapter on april 10. i was prompted to do so for several reasons. Firstly, there was a growing move­ment amongst college cam­puses to support trump, and i believed notre dame should be a part of it,” diraimo said. 
diraimo said he thought trump supporters were 
not  adequately  represent­ 
ed  on  college  campuses  
nationwide.  

“more importantly, it was about protecting a minor­ity viewpoint. i believe it is of little doubt that nation­ally speaking, students who support trump tend to be in smaller numbers than stu­dents who support bernie,” he said. 
at notre dame currently, there are no other presiden­
“I am attracted to Trump because of the lack of control donors have to his actions. I have respect for someone who is willing to say what he believes in, even when the political establishment does not want him to.” 
Michael DiRamio 
law student 
tial campaign groups for students. 
“i believe creating a chap­ter would both create a haven 

paid advertisement 

for students inclined to bet­ter express their beliefs, and allow them to reach out to fellow students to discuss 
their  opinions,” diraimo  
said.  
additionally,  diraimo  

said he wants to see more political engagement from the student demographic. 
“[it] involves the lack of participation by young peo­ple in the political process,” diraimo said. “in 2012, only 
41.2 percent of young voters showed up to the polls and this number is quite pitiful given the issues our genera­tion will face, and the deci­sions we all are going to have to make.” 
diraimo said it is tough to tell how much success the chapter is experiencing in the first two weeks, particu­larly because there is no for­mal chapter headquarters. 
“so far our presence has been entirely online, but we plan to hold events in the fu­ture, after exams,” he said. 
the goal of the chapter is to increase voter turnout, according to diraimo. 
“our goal is to increase voter turnout generally, and to inform people about mis­conceptions about trump,” he said. 
additionally, diraimo said he hopes to make the chapter open to students who may not have gotten involved with trump otherwise. 
“our goal is to help stu­dents who may feel ashamed by their fellow classmates for supporting trump by helping them come out of the trump supporters clos­et,” diraimo said. 
diraimo said he supports trump because of his mostly self-funded campaign. 
“i am attracted to trump because of the lack of con­trol donors have to his ac­tions,” diraimo said. “i have great respect for someone who is willing to say what he believes in, even when the political establishment does not want him to.” 
beyond that, diraimo says he appreciates how trump is running his cam­paign and his honesty throughout. 
“what i see [students] most attracted to is the lack of political correctness,” he said. “students here, like­wise, seem passionate about a presidential candidate who is going to say what needs to be said, regardless of the political or emotional ramifications from saying it. 
“oh, and the wall has support.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
regatta 
continued From page 1 
not a set number, we’re get­ting more donations and we’re hoping by the end to have $8,000. we’re almost there.” 
collier said that in ad­dition to the races, there was “so much going on for the people,” including, free hamburgers and hot dogs, a slushie machine, a dJ, spikeball and people lounging on blankets. 
the races were split into men and women’s divi­sions; o’donnell said there were 20 boats competing in the men’s and 16 in the women’s. 
“my favorite boat today had got to be the ‘meat boat’,” collier said. “so the meat boat is this beau­tiful piece of machinery and basically, all it is is wood, random empty bar­rels, more wood. the prob­lem with it is you have to row and in order to row, you have to stand on it. but you stand on it with 13 other guys and it’s just not that conducive to, well, movement. what hap­pened is their boat flipped three different times and they still found the will­power to get over to the other side. i don’t under­stand how they did it but they did.” 
o’donnell also said he had some clear favorites in the competition, including one that was powered by a tandem bicycle. 
“one boat put an anchor into their boat because they wanted to camp out in the middle of the lake,” he said. “another put a fu­ton on their monstrosity and rode that across. there was the party barge, as al­ways, from Fisher that put 15, 16 guys on it and it to­tally capsized. then there was the inflatable pool that made it to the finals, even though it was technically illegal.” 
pangborn hall defeated ryan hall to win the wom­en’s division while a boat built by moreau seminary and raced by old college beat out Knott hall and the american society of civil engineers in a three-way final for the men’s. 
while o’donnell said he loved seeing which boats sank, his favorite part of the regatta is seeing how happy it makes the spectators. 
“i really enjoy that other people enjoy the regatta,” he said. “being on staff, you sometimes miss out on the actual fun times that are happening because you’re busy, but after you sit back and think about it, i really enjoy that everyone else had a fun time.” 
collier said the sense of unity that comes from the regatta is his favorite part of helping to plan the sig­nature event. 
“regatta is one of the most spectacular events to ever come to the campus of notre dame and that’s very true for a multitude of reasons. the biggest rea­sons of which are simply that this event is some­thing that brings people together. it brings people together and tears boats apart. 
“Quite frankly, i believe Fisher hall is respon­sible, personally, for be­tween 40 and 50 percent of the pollution present in saint mary’s lake,” he said. “why is that so true? because we really suck when it comes to getting boats out of the water — or people really suck at build­ing them. either way.” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 




disability 
continued From page 1 
in a collaborative, interactive process, in which we find work­place accommodations that will help them complete the es­sential functions of their job,” she said. 
Faculty and staff must self-identify as disabled to receive accommodations, Frazier said, so the burden is initially on the faculty member to be­gin the process of requesting accommodations. 
“they can initiate that when they first start, they can ini­tiate it three years down the line. they can initiate it at any time,” she said. “after they have initiated that process, the bur­den is then going to be on the university, the supervisor, the chair of that department to pro­vide the resources and initiate that interactive process.” 
the accommodations avail­able to faculty and staff vary widely, “depending on their medical condition and the type of work they do,” Frazier said.  
“i work really closely with their physician to get docu­mentation to confirm their disability and to seek recom­mendations seeing what would be best regarding the accom­modations in place,” she said. “if we need to make changes re­garding their schedule, some­times they might work in the morning and we change their position to an evening position, just based on their medical condition.” 
Frazier said the office works with the office of risk management and safety to do ergonomic assessments of workspaces. 
“if there’s any workplace equipment that they might need, if they need a certain type of software — say if it’s for visual disability — we provide larger screens, we provide dif­ferent chairs if it’s for back is­sues,” she said. 
available accommodations include changes of lighting, for faculty and staff who have migraine conditions or light sensitivity, Frazier said, and employees with diabetes could receive extra breaks to perform insulin checks or have snacks. 
while the office is not able to provide the exact number of employees who have self-disclosed a disability to the university, Frazier said includ­ing any temporary faculty and staff members, the number is less than five percent of all ac­tive employees. 
“it’s a very small number, just based on the fact that it’s self-disclosure, so obviously if it were required it would be a lot higher number,” she said. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Survey 
continued From page 1 
responses, the five students who had been involved in an admin­istrative hearing as a respondent were overwhelmingly dissatis­fied with the timeliness and im­partiality of that process. Zero percent of those respondents were satisfied or somewhat sat­isfied with both the impartial­ity and the timeliness of the administrative hearing process. additionally, of the 10 complain­ants who responded, half were either dissatisfied, somewhat dissatisfied or neutral about both the impartiality and timeli­ness of the hearing process. 
ryan willerton, director of the office of community standards (ocs), said this information “deeply troubles [him].” 
“any time we have a student with concerns about impartial­ity is concerning,” willerton said. “i think when we look at the timeliness, the thing that i want to really drill down to you is that the timeliness from the incident to the resolution, the timeliness 


Success 
continued From page 1 
giving back to the high school kids in the south bend school corporation and all of the schools in the surrounding areas,” Fox said. “i think most kids today have a hard time transitioning from high school to college for whatever reason it is.” 
Fox said she hopes that by in­corporating college students who may not have had a strong aca­demic year, they will be able to give advice to recent high school graduates that enroll in the week-long program. 
“my target audiences are be­ginning college students and anybody who had a difficult first year. when you graduate from high school you think you know everything, and na­ïvely so because if you get into a good college, why would you not think that you would be smart and successful by do­ing the same things you did in high school?” Fox said. “nobody tells them this until you get that bad first grade and you cry and you think you’re stupid and want to flunk out of college.” 
Fox believes that most of the from the incident to the inves­tigation to the actual adminis­trative hearing, we are trying to reduce that window as much as possible.” 
willerton said the length of the hearing process stemmed from the complex nature of sexual misconduct cases and the need for a thorough review of each one. 
“ … we don’t make rash deci­sions, we don’t make decisions based on emotions walking out of a hearing — we actually have to look at the information and determine, more likely than not, is there sufficient information to determine that the policy has been violated?” he said. “not has an incident happened, or has a student been impacted, but do we have enough information to determine has a policy been vio­lated, using that preponderance of evidence, that more likely than not standard — and that takes time. 
“i recognize that everybody going through the process, whether it’s a complainant, a respondent, a witness, a friend, a family member, everybody is 
common mistakes high school graduates will make their fresh­man year can be easily prevented. 
“i think this is important be­cause it makes student proactive rather than reactive and if any­thing, my goal is to keep them out of a hole that first year,” Fox said. “i don’t care what college you go to but if you get in a hole that first year, you’re digging out the next four years. i don’t think it’s arro­gance that they think they know everything, it’s naïvety.” 
the key to both enjoying col­lege and being academically suc­cessful is balance, according to Fox. 
“i don’t think you should do something at the expense of something else ever,” Fox said. “it’s all about balance because i think you’re priority has to be academics because that’s why you’re here, but you can’t study all the time or you’re going to burn out. but you can’t party all the time because you’re not going to have anything to go back to.” 
the seminar lasts from June 13 through June 16 from 9:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. For more information, contact diane Fox at dfox@saint­marys.edu. 
Contact Sydney Enlow at  senlow01@saintmarys.edu 

impacted in some way and it is students directly helps shape the to respond, whether it’s related trying to make efforts to reduce office’s policy. to policies during our annual the window of time that we do as “there isn’t an easy answer to policy review over the summer, much as possible and it is some-it, but seeing this information on whether it’s looking at our busi­thing we continue to work on,” paper is a great way to draw at-ness practices — this is key.” he said. tention to the concern,” he said. 
according to willerton, while “so whenever we receive con-Contact Margaret Hynds at it is not always possible, the cerns, we want to find some way mhynds@nd.edu university tries to resolve all 
paid advertisement 
sexual misconduct complaints within 60 days. 
“ … From the time that the report is made to [deputy title iX coordinator] heather [ryan] to the time that we can com­municate the decision from the administrative hearing, we want to do everything we can to get that decision within 60 calen­dar days, as much as possible, not looking at university break periods when students are away. that’s our goal and target — if we can make it shorter than that, outstanding,” he said. 
looking forward, willerton said the feedback ocs received from the survey and from 
paid advertisement the observer | mondAy, APril 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



LAUREN WELDON and CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 


inSidE Column 

What have I learned? 

Catherine Owers 
senior news writer 

as a second-semester senior, i’ve engaged in a good amount of reflection on my time here at notre dame, which means i’ve spent several months asking myself, “what have i learned?” 
in my common app essay, i told universities i was excited to go to college because i really liked learning — enjoy my terribly embarrassing introduction: 
“when i was little, my idea of heaven was a room filled with thousands of books. i’ve always loved reading and learning; as long as i can re­member, i’ve loved the tiny thrill when a story leaps off the page, the satisfying sensation when a math problem clicks.” 
and in my essay, i made the incredibly astute statement that i, catherine owers, realized learning was neither a solitary enterprise, nor one that was limited to books or classrooms. 
unsurprisingly, notre dame enabled me to grow in academic and nonacademic spheres. Fantastic professors and roommates have taught me to reevaluate my worldviews and the way i cook scrambled eggs; studying abroad taught me respect for other cultures’ traditions and how to negotiate with italian taxi drivers. Five years later, i still have an embarrassing amount of enthusiasm for learning. 
last fall i would have responded to the self-imposed question, “what have i learned?” by asserting that notre dame has taught me things i want to know, but also how much more i want to learn. and this is the extremely sophisticated analysis i brought to campus at the beginning of my senior year, ready to continue learning from my professors and friends, and oh yes, working for the news department of the observer. 
i never expected the most important lessons from my senior year to be taught by people younger than me. in the female-dominated news department, i’ve learned so much about dedication, resourcefulness, professionalism and kindness from a high-quality group of hu­man beings. 
thank you to all the ladies who have worked production with me when i was sleep-deprived and over-caffeinated. thanks to the woman who commits to way too many production shifts for other departments. thanks to the woman who worked so many thursday nights with so much enthusiasm. thanks to the woman who is al­ways smiling. thanks to the woman who carries the delta news academic average. 
thank you to the woman who hired me before she met me, and let me be the fourth person to cry in her office on her first day as editor-in­chief. thank you for being a great boss and an even better friend. thank you for creating the community i didn’t know i needed to be a part of. 
what have i learned? i’ve learned that every late night that’s turned into a very early morning and the utter lack of work-life balance have been worth it. every server, indesign, printer and personal meltdown has been worth it. news ma­triarchy, i can’t thank y’all enough for making my work at the observer the defining learning experience of my notre dame career. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttErS to thE Editor 
why you should enjoy these last few weeks of the semester 
sometimes it feels like my classes own me. given that the demand for higher education has increased since the 2007 mortgage crisis, despite rising costs, i’d say that most individuals would agree on the pur­pose of this expensive investment: to advance and empower the student. but the course of my education has at times felt not empowering but oppressive — my studies seem to tax me brutally of sleep, of relation­ships and of happiness, especially during “crunch time.” during my years at nd, i have often wondered whether this tax inevitably accompanies my educa­tion’s price tag. as a senior reflecting on my experi­ence, i think i can confidently conclude the opposite to be true; my college education is free of all intan­gible taxes but those i opt to apply myself. 
we are expected to complete assignments, write papers and study diligently, and we are expected (sometimes) to supply our attention to our professors thus, such that we pay them due respect. however, these activities in and of themselves do not comprise our educations. no, an education transpires in the mind, and at notre dame, in our hearts. these activi­ties challenge our minds and hearts, of course, but too often the challenges they pose, once answered, have no lasting effect upon us. try to imagine, for example, a way in which you are changed after cramming for an exam. most of your knowledge is crude and ephem­eral. imagine, also, when cramming and its equiva­lents become a habit — at the end of our schooling, we may come out of our own recitation rooms with a bag of wind and a memory of words, remembering noth­ing. classmates, we are doing school, but education is not a series of actions. it is development; it is a slow revolution. 
this failing of our schooling is not entirely our fault, however. we are externally encouraged to orient ourselves toward an end rather than the odyssey; we are expected to (and often asked to) value our grades highly, sometimes above all else. though grades are not inherently bad, as they are often quite useful (especially in training our own discipline) a focus on this discipline, and more realistically, on measur­able success, often overwhelms our innate desires to learn. do not blind yourself so. such a narrow focus allows, ironically, for our schooling to be robbed of its genuine educational ability; that is, any schooling that ignores the beauty and wonder of the transformative wanderings of human education in fact educates its subjects very little. students, then, must not be sub­jects owned by their schooling but agents of their own learning. in this way, we will remain cognizant of our innate desire to learn, and we will enjoy satisfying that desire each and every day. if we regularly suc­ceed in learning, we may indeed emerge from school advanced, empowered and hungry to continue our education, a beautiful, life-long transformation of the heart and mind. 
grant allen, a contemporary to mark twain, often wrote: “never let your schooling interfere with your education.” 
Kathryn Dennee 
senior april 11 

Thinking about ‘Hijab Day’ at Notre Dame 
last wednesday, the muslim students association (msa) sponsored a “hijab day” on campus. members of the msa could be seen in front of debartolo hall fitting hijabs (or headscarfs) on non-muslim women and sharing information about islam. according to the msa members i spoke to at the event, they hoped that this experience would both increase awareness about islamic practices and build sympathy for the difficul­ties which muslims — and especially muslim women 
— face in american society. still, “hijab day” at notre dame raises some interesting questions. i’d like to men­tion three of them. 
First, what is the connection between the hijab and the larger principle of modesty? most islamic scholars see the headscarf as one element of a series of require­ments for women to cover what is known as awra, the “forbidden” area of a woman’s body. according to most scholars, this includes much of her body: including arms to her wrists and legs to her feet. most scholars insist that the face can be shown but some (notably in saudi arabia) disagree. many muslim scholars would find rather bizarre the idea of a woman who puts on a headscarf while wearing a short-sleeve shirt, or shorts, for example. 
second, what about muslims who are opposed to the hijab? many muslim women (and men!) have noted that the Quran only calls on women (24:31) to cover their breasts, and never their hair or necks. now, many muslim women argue that wearing the hijab is a liber­ating experience because it forces men to deal with a woman’s character and not her body. others, however, argue no less insistently that the very idea of hijab was imposed on women by a male-dominated society which — with no basis in the Quran — sought to im­pose unequal standards of modesty on women. 
third, at notre dame should we consider too the christian experience of the hijab in muslim coun­tries? the (mostly) christian girls of chibok, nigeria, (remember #bringbackourgirls?) abducted by boko haram in 2014 appear in pictures in captivity with hijabs. in certain countries christians (along with muslims) are compelled to wear the hijab. meanwhile in other contexts, muslims have been compelled not to wear the hijab. clearly this is a complicated matter. 
i certainly understand the enthusiasm which notre dame’s msa feels about “hijab day,” and i agree that we should explore ways to find solidarity with the muslim-american experience. however, in light of the difficult questions surrounding this issue, i wonder if “hijab day” is the best way of doing so. perhaps we can think together of other, creative ways of promoting inter-religious understanding at a catholic university. 
Gabriel Said Reynolds 
professor of islamic studies and theology april 22 



What really matters in the end 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 

if you are a graduating senior, you know the swirl­ing, complex feelings conjured up by the prospect of departure. maybe you have scarcely had time to consider them fully with the onslaught of final proj­ects and exams looming just a week away. maybe you have hidden them away like an unsightly thing that you cannot bring yourself to countenance, however obvious its presence might be. or maybe you, like many others, are simply moving along in the sunlight of these new spring days, living in the moment, as yet another academic year comes to an end. 
the final weeks of any given academic year do not offer much time for reflection. if the academic year were a work of fiction, it would conclude fi­nally, cataclysmically with the climactic period of exams. there’s no real falling action, no denoue­ment. instead of sloping into a gradual decline, the semester’s efforts continue along a plateau that you might well sprint off of, your arms and legs churn­ing comically before you realize that you’re not on the ground anymore. you’re no longer there. 
a recent notre dame graduate told me that he didn’t realize he’d left college until about two months into his first job. only then did the feel­ing strike him. another alum said that just setting foot back on campus put him at ease. yet another recalled how thrilling it was, in retrospect, to stay up until 5 a.m. writing an essay the night before it was due. such reflections probably seem foreign to those of us still studying here, but in time we’ll be there, too, looking back through the distorted lens of memory. 
though much of our reflecting on college will likely happen years afterward, i find it a worthwhile 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

on april 20, a connecticut state court judge set a trial date in a lawsuit filed by families of the victims of the december 2012 sandy hook elementary school shooting. the suit had been filed against remington arms, the manufacturer of the bushmaster ar-15 rifle that took the lives of 26 children and adults. this suit may prove to be precedent-setting with far-reaching implications. 
attorneys for the families argue that remington should be held responsible for the tragedy because the gun manufacturer intentionally marketed its assault-style weapons towards dangerous and poten­tially-violent shooters. in response, the gun manu­facturers claim that they are immune from liability under federal legislation passed in 2005 known as the protection of lawful commerce in arms act. the im­munity provision of the legislation provides that busi­nesses involved in the manufacturing and marketing of firearms “are not, and should not, be liable for the harm caused by those who criminally or unlawfully misuse firearm products or ammunition products that function as designed and intended.” this im­munity clause has discouraged lawsuits against gun manufacturers and marketers. 
the families of the sandy hook victims are relying on a provision in the legislation that voids immunity for manufacturers under circumstances constituting negligent entrustment. the legislation states that “the supplying of a [firearm] by a seller for use by another person when the seller knows, or reasonably should know, the person to whom the product is supplied is likely to, and does, use the product in a manner involving unreasonable risk of physical injury to the practice to examine how we have spent our time at a place while we are still there amid the trappings of experience, if only right before we depart. two poems by the german language poet rainer maria rilke come to mind as particularly illuminative for such an endeavor. 
the first is titled “eingang” or “entrance” in english. i first read it in an introductory literature class my freshman year, and its words have haunted me since then. in its brief verses, rilke’s poem en­joins us to “step out in the evening / out from your lodgings, wherein you know everything” for “your house is the last before the far-off place.” it is a poem that calls us out from familiarity into the ex­panse of the world, a fitting metaphor both for our entry into college as well as our departure. 
in the subsequent verses of “entrance,” the poet describes how you — “whoever you may be” — will “have made the world,” or at least your world, through your encounters. but such encounters also tend to involve departures, a theme which rilke treats in a poem called “abschied,” which might be translated into english as “parting.” 
rilke writes of parting as “a dark, not gotten-over / terrible something, that once again / shows, de­lays, and tears apart a bond of beauty.” it often ap­proaches you without warning, and leaves you “like a plum tree / from which a cuckoo hastily [has] flown” — so hastily, indeed, that it forgot the word “has” the poem seems to imply. parting is portrayed here as destructive. but what it threatens to destroy is precisely what matters most. 
a bond of beauty. it’s not exactly the way we might conceive of our time in college. but that’s what we are being offered. call it friendship or ca­maraderie. call it some notion of shared identity. that might sound rather abstract and highfalutin, but when it comes down to it, certain platitudes about remembering people and relationships more 
A Pandora’s box 
person or others” is unlawful. 
the gun used in this shooting was an ar-15 style rifle, normally a firearm used for military applications and often glamorized in violent video games such as call of duty. Joshua Koskoff, an attorney represent­ing the plaintiffs, argues that the marketing strategy employed by remington is a form of negligent en­trustment. in an interview, he told cnn, “they took the [military grade] weapon and started peddling it to the civilian market for the purpose of making a lot of money.” in marketing the military-style weapon, remington used phrases such as “consider your man card reissued,” and “Forces of opposition, bow down.” Jackie barden, mother of daniel barden, a victim of the shooting, summarized the plaintiffs’ position as to the intended targets of remington’s advertise­ments, “i think that who they are focusing on in their advertisements are young men that maybe do not feel manly and secure, and who are disenfranchised with their lives and maybe feel powerless.” 
gun manufacturers and sportsmen, not surpris­
ingly, view the situation differently. bob crook, of the 
coalition of connecticut sportsmen, stated that the 
types of rifles sold by remington to the sandy hook 
shooter are “made to appeal to the general public, and 
the general public has bought millions and millions 
of them.” this statement is supported. in testimony 
before congress, a representative of the national 
shooting sports Foundation testified that there were 
anywhere from 5 million to 8.2 million assault-style 
weapons in the united states. it is very difficult to 
credibly argue that all or even a substantial portion of 
these weapons were sold to young and insecure men 
who are prone to violence, much less mass murderers. 
the trial judge and a jury, which may someday 
hear the case, will be confronted with an enormous 
responsibility. if the plaintiffs prevail, it could expose 
than accolades and test scores turn out to be pretty true. no one is going to miss notre dame for the lack of opportunity to earn the best grades in the “real world.” people miss notre dame for the rela­tionships they had there. 
of course, these bonds can be maintained. but unless you’re moving to chicago or signed on to be a double domer, you’re not going to be around notre dame people on a regular basis. departure remains a “terrible something” that we have to come to terms with in the end. 
For my own part, i have to acknowledge a linger­ing regret: that i did not set aside time to delib­erately get to know so many of my peers beyond superficial greetings and glancing conversations. i cringe internally every time i realize, in horror, that i don’t even know the name of a person who has said hi to me. the irony of that first rilke poem is that i read it over and over again and wrote about the need to “step out into the evening” as i sat at a familiar desk. when given the chance to form a bond with others, i more often shuffled off to the library for self-appointed solitude. 
we all have our reflecting to do, whoever you may be. it could well be worth considering the parts of our time at notre dame that matter most before the time for departure finally comes. after such reflec­tions, perhaps the final lines of rilke’s “entrance” will resonate with our departure: 
“and as your will grasps its sense / tenderly your eyes let it go.” 
Charlie Ducey is a senior studying the languages of 
G. K. Chesterton (English) and Edith Stein (German). Please contact him with questions, comments, complaints, appraisals, invitations, prognostications and prestidigitations at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
a wide spectrum of manufacturers to liability for the misuse of their products. would drug companies be held liable if their products got into the hands of an emotionally-unstable person and were used to poison a victim? could a toaster manufacturer be held responsible if a madman tossed the appliance into a bathtub in order to murder his spouse? this case could truly open a pandora’s box for product manufacturers. 
there obviously is a justified emotional reaction to the death of so many innocent people, including 20 beautiful, innocent children, and the anger of the families of this horrid tragedy is understandable as they search for answers and “justice.” we need to ask, however, whether the focus of our efforts to avoid the reoccurrence of this type of tragedy should be direct­ed at the gun manufacturers or elsewhere. 
the chaotic patchwork of additional “gun control” legislation proposed in the shadow of sandy hook is little better than the antiquated and ineffective men­tal health programs currently available to the victims and the families of those suffering from schizophre­nia, bipolar disorder and depression. though it has become an overused and trite phrase, it is true that guns don’t kill people. people kill people. the in­nocent victims of the sandy hook tragedy will truly be honored if their needless deaths help bring about structural and lasting reforms to our nation’s mental health system which will focus appropriate attention on those who are actually pulling the trigger. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CroSSword | will shortZ 

JuSt Add wAtEr | John roddy & eric carlson 

FlinG by SPrinG | riley mccurrie 



Sudoku | the mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
horoSCoPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: Keeping a steady, surefooted pace will be your saving grace. opportunities are plentiful, so choose what you are able to handle and make steady gains as you go. a sudden, unexpected change in your financial situation could come from an unusual source. Keeping a clear head will help you avoid being used. your numbers are 2, 16, 23, 28, 30, 33, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): initiate changes that will help you feel healthier. love is encouraged, and socializing and sharing your plans will bring you closer to the type of life you want to live. it’s up to you to make things happen. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get involved, make plans, network or do something special for someone you want to get to know better. speak from the heart and express an interest in whatever you are dealing with, and you will find out valuable information. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a practical approach to whatever you do is a much better approach than casting your fate to the wind and seeing what unfolds. take control of the situations you face and harness what you want by using your skills strategically. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on partnerships. discuss your plans with others and explore your options. someone you meet through a friend or while traveling will spark your interest in something you might not have previously considered. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you can make professional changes, but don’t leave one job until you have found another. it’s important to be responsible and not act impulsively. collect information and update your skills before you decide to make a move. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): speak up and those around you will listen and take note of what you are proposing. your intelligence and dedication will be recognized and help you gain respect as well as an interesting position. think big, but don’t lose sight of reality. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a transformation is taking place. Facing difficulties will open your eyes and your mind to new opportunities. don’t allow anyone to steer you away from a course that can bring you happiness. believe in yourself and do as you please. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stop and take note of what is going on around you. look for unusual opportunities and search for answers to the unknown. your curiosity will lead you to more fortunate circumstances. don’t let the choices others make lead you astray. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): expect to face difficulties if you try to push your ideas on others. if you want to make changes, focus inward and do whatever it takes to improve mentally, physically and emotionally. do your homework and you’ll get results. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): emotions will be difficult to contain. don’t hide the way you feel when expressing your opinions. make a plan to do the things that will help you achieve greater happiness. nothing ventured, nothing gained. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): abide by the rules and you’ll avoid unexpected headaches. it’s important to put greater effort into the relationships you have with others. a change of attitude will encourage others to strive to improve as well. love is highlighted. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): take a trip that will offer you a chance to learn something new or discover what you want to do next. greater involvement in an effort to bring about positive reforms or improvements to your community should be on your agenda. 

Birthday Baby: you are adaptable, creative and precise. you are willful and organized. 
JumblE | david hoyt and JeFF KnureK 


to
 receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | mondAy, APril 25, 2016 | the observer 

SPortS Authority 

What does Indy mean, exactly? 

Alex Carson 
assistant managing editor 
thirty-three. 
two-and-a-half. 
Five hundred. 
two hundred fifty thousand. 
when it comes to the great­est sporting event in the world, they’re the numbers that de­scribe the size of the field — 33 drivers, aligned in 11 rows of three — the size of the circuit and length of the race — 200 laps around a 2.5-mile track — and the six-figure size of the crowd in attendance. 
this year, there’s a new one rolling in. 
one hundred. 
when the green flag drops 12 minutes after noon in speedway, indiana, on may 29, it’ll mark the start of the 100th running of the indianapolis 500, the aptly-nicknamed “greatest spectacle in racing.” 
For me, there’s no better day than the sunday of memorial day weekend. it’s the official unofficial start to summer, and an opportunity for an entire city to come together around one fantastic event. 
there’s always been a special place in my heart for this race. i have fond memories of my days as a kid growing up, going to autograph sessions at local car dealerships or heading out to the brickyard to take a lap around the famed circuit in our car, and as i grew older, i start­ed watching the race with more interest. when i actually went to the 500 for the first time six years ago, i was hooked beyond belief — there’s simply no way to describe what seeing a car dive into turn one at 235 miles per hour looks like until you’ve seen it for yourself. 
before you do the math, yes, that’s covering more than a football field every second. 
but for me, the 500 has al­ways been about more than the simple spectacle the event is: it’s been about family. 
growing up, whenever we’d go back to visit my grandpar­ents in poland, ohio, i was greeted with constant remind­ers of my grandfather’s love of auto racing. when my dad and uncle were kids, they’d go with him to races around northeast ohio and western pennsylvania, and when i was back to visit family, my grandpa would sit downstairs with me as i rode around their basement on a tricycle, acting as if i was myself driving an indycar. 
and when we went back every year at memorial day, we’d sit down and watch the 500 — the race my grandfather adored — from more than 300 miles away. no memory sticks out more than 2006, when sam hornish Jr. passed 19-year-old marco andretti in the final 400 feet of the race to win the 500, break­ing my heart in the process. 
but it also sticks out because it was the last 500 i watched with my grandfather, who died in 2007. that means that this year, the 100th running, will be the 10th one i’ve watched without him. since, i’ve done my research on the history of the event — from one of my grandpa’s favorite drivers, bill vukovich, to more recent winners like arie luyendyk (too bad his “bachelorette” contestant son couldn’t drive a car quite as well) — and ap­preciated the spectacle much more than i did when i was still a kid who’d just started middle school. 
and while my grandfather’s death meant the end of one tradition, it allowed for the start of another: For the sev­enth straight year, i’ll be taking in the 500 with my dad. that means starting at the grand prix of indianapolis road course race on may 14, hitting qualifications for the 500 the next weekend and then head­ing up the road to anderson for the “little 500” sprint car race 
— pitting 33 sprint cars on a quarter-mile track — the night before the big thing. 
being an indycar fan isn’t a particularly common thing, especially among a generation of kids that grew up on Forza’s road-racing ethos and nascar being the biggest racing se­ries in the united states, and when people ask me about my indycar background, it can be hard to find the words to de­scribe why i love it so much. 
so when talking with people who’ve never experienced the 500, i just default to the ones al unser Jr. used after his 1992 win. 
“you just don’t know what indy means.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


bASEbAll | Florida state 12, nd 6; Fsu 7, nd 6; Fsu 11, nd 6 
nd falls to Florida state in three-game series 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
in its first series away from home in a month, notre dame dropped all three games to acc atlantic division-leading Florida state. 
the irish (23-15, 9-10 acc) took an early lead in each game of the weekend, but the no. 10 seminoles (28­11, 13-4) stormed back in all three to sweep notre dame at dick howser stadium in tallahassee, Florida. 
coming into the weekend having won seven consecutive games and 15 of their previ­ous 17, the irish were looking to stay hot against a seminole team with national champion­ship aspirations. 
notre dame started the se­ries off strongly, plating a run in each of the first three in­nings of Friday night’s game. the pitching staff was unable to keep the Florida state of­fense down, however, as the seminoles scored 12 total runs in the game, including five in the eighth inning to put it away late. 
saturday afternoon’s game also ended with a Florida state victory, but it was a much dif­ferent story. the irish used some late-inning heroics from sophomore left fielder Jake shepski to extend the game. with his team down 6-4 with two outs in the top of the ninth, shepski launched a home run over the right field fence to bring in junior catcher ryan lidge and tie up the game. 
the seminoles kept the irish from scoring again, in the pro­cess stranding five total notre dame baserunners in the 11th and 12th innings, before win­ning in walk-off fashion in the bottom of the 12th inning. 
then on sunday, notre dame put up a five-spot in the first inning off seminoles freshman right-hander cole sands, though all five runs were unearned. the irish bat­ted around in an uncharac­teristically-sloppy inning for Florida state that included five notre dame hits but three de­fensive errors. 
the irish and junior starter 


FOR RENT 
1 BR fully furnished includes large sunroom and laundry on 3 acres walking distance to ND. Heat and water included. Month-to-month lease. $650 + $50 electric. Call 574-271-7205 
3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 

ryan smoyer ran into trou­ble in the fifth after breezing through the first four innings. smoyer gave up five runs on three hits in the inning to tie the game, and the seminoles took a 7-5 lead in the bottom of the sixth with two more runs off sophomore reliever brad bass. 
Florida state sophomore shortstop taylor walls put the game out of reach with a seventh-inning grand slam off bass, making the lead 11­
5. notre dame tacked on an eighth-inning run to bring the game to its final score of 11-6. 
“i think we competed fine,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “we didn’t play great at times, but i think we compet­ed fine. we didn’t pitch it great at times. there were stretches certainly where we did. i think everybody who went out there, in stretches, pitched quite well, but then unfortunately we also had the negative ones too where we just gave away too many free [bases] and created too much of their of­fense for them. that sort of is [Florida state’s] recipe for suc­cess. they create, getting those free 90s. they’re a patient hit­ting team, and those things certainly help a lot. sadly, we contributed to it.” 
arguably the best per­formance of the weekend for notre dame belonged to sophomore relief pitcher brandon bielak on saturday. 
after sophomore starter sean guenther worked six innings of six-run ball against the hot seminole offense, bielak tossed four shutout innings to give his team a chance to come back. he tied his career high in strikeouts with eight while dropping his era in relief ap­pearances to 0.75 in 24 innings of work. 
“[bielak] was great,” aoki said. “i thought he pitched re­markably well. i thought he did a great, great job. he’s pitched phenomenally well since com­ing out of the bullpen. he’s been really, really good.” 
notre dame finds itself in fourth place in the atlantic division with just nine con­ference regular season games remaining, which means it would currently qualify for the 10-team acc tournament field starting at the end of may. the irish also need a strong finish to the season to hold off charges from hot teams like wake Forest, who swept north carolina this weekend, and boston college, who took two of three from louisville. 
the irish will look to get back on track tuesday against indiana at victory Field in indianapolis before return­ing to Frank eck stadium on wednesday night for a mid­week game against eastern michigan. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800  info@greymattersintl.com  
+ utilities.  Washer/dryer,  kitchen  
appliances included. Contact phil- TRIPLE  DOMER  NEEDS  
ipms@sbcglobal.net  NANNY--SUMMER  ONLY, P/T,  or  
WANTED  F/T: ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, reliable gal to trav­ 

el to beautiful Jackson Hole WY from end of May/early June to early 
Need a babysitter for Sep August as our live-in nanny. Email: 9th eve when Domer family in info @greymattersintl .com for a football weekend. Contact Enjoy the last week of classes! 




w lax 
continued From page 12 
week “great” after her team’s loss monday, and praised the strong effort that lasted the entirety of saturday’s game. 
“overall, [i’m] really proud of our team focusing on ourselves and playing notre dame la­crosse [saturday] from start to finish,” halfpenny said. “it was just a really awesome effort top to bottom and it came off of a great week of preparation, so it was really nice to see our girls re­focus themselves and really play together and fight together for 60 minutes.” 
ohio state closed the gap to 7-6 with 3:19 to play, but two irish goals — from senior midfielder stephanie toy and senior attack Kiera mcmullan — gave notre dame some breathing room heading into halftime. 
and when the teams returned from the break, notre dame played its best lacrosse of the day. 
with their advantage down to 10-8, the irish rattled off six consecutive goals to put the game well out of reach, using five different scorers — from ju­nior midfielder Katherine eilers to graduate student defender barbara sullivan and Fortunato, who finished with five goals, to freshman attack nikki ortega and mcmullan — to down the buckeyes. 
“we tightened things up, we settled into the game once we tightened things up,” halfpenny said. “you take a look at what that score was and realistically, it was an 8-to-3 second half.” 
ohio state managed an an­swer with 9:38 left to close the gap to 16-9, but the irish defense held strong and didn’t concede another goal, with junior attack grace muller’s goal with 1:50 to play being the final scoring ac­tion of the afternoon. 
halfpenny said she was pleased with how her team played when things weren’t easy saturday en route to an em­phatic win over a highly-ranked opponent. 
“i think that top to bottom, being able to battle through ad­versity for 60 minutes — not ev­ery call going your way, a couple bad breaks, having to adjust on the draw control — i think it was really great to have that op­portunity to work through all those things and then see and re­mind ourselves it’s a long game,” halfpenny said. “ … playing our style and [being] on each other allowed them to get the outcome they wanted.” 
the win ends notre dame’s regular season — next up is the acc tournament in blacksburg, virginia, where the no. 3-seeded irish will have a good chance to secure a top-eight seed in the ncaa tournament, and with it, the right to host their first couple of games. 
“it’s an awesome way to finish our regular season journey and it definitely gives us confidence heading into the acc tourna­ment on thursday,” halfpenny said. 
notre dame’s opponent thursday is no. 6-seeded and no. 7-ranked louisville (12-4, 
m lax 
continued From page 12 
despite the lead, notre dame wasn’t turning in a typical de­fensive performance: up until saturday, the irish had not al­lowed an opponent to score in double digits this season. going into the final period, north carolina had already scored nine goals. the nation’s top-ranked defense went on to then fall apart at the worst possible moment. 
“our defense has played amazing all year and will learn from that game to grow and get better and better,” wynne said. “unc was solid in transition and made heads up plays, credit to them.” 
after perkovic scored his fourth goal of the contest five minutes into the fourth and final period, north carolina looked 
3-4), a matchup that gives notre dame an opportunity to avenge a 10-9 road double overtime loss to the cardinals suffered march 5. 
if notre dame gets through that game, they will likely see no. 5 syracuse, who the irish also dropped a one-goal deci­sion to in march, in Friday’s sec­ond round — giving the squad ample opportunity to fine tune its ncaa tournament résumé while chasing an acc crown this week at virginia tech. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
like a completely different team from the previous three peri­ods. in the fourth period, the tar heels managed to get off 18 shots on the irish defense while notre dame struggled with just six shots. senior attack steve pontrello and junior attack luke goldstock led the comeback for north carolina scoring four goals apiece on the day. 
“we struggled to get the ball, hit a few posts, and didn’t make the plays we usually do at the end of games,” wynne said. 
in addition to struggling to find an offensive rhythm in the fourth period, the irish totaled seven minutes of penalty time despite being one of the least-pe­nalized teams in the acc. north carolina also dominated the fa­ceoff battle late in the game win­ning seven of the last 10 faceoffs to help catapult them onto the 7-0 run. 
notre dame will now be faced with the challenge of having to defeat no. 16 duke twice in the same season as the two will face in the first acc semifinal on Friday in Kennesaw, georgia. irish head coach Kevin corrigan has already told his players to get past the loss and turn their fo­cus towards the blue devils (9-6, 2-2). 
“coach said to stay focused and get ready for a short turn­around,” wynne said. “we are going to work hard in practice this week and be as well pre­pared as we can for a very good duke team.” 
last season the irish fell 13-8 in the acc semifinal against duke. this year, notre dame will look to reverse that outcome Friday. the contest will tip-off at 8:30 p.m. at Kennesaw state university. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 







ndsmcobserver.com | mondAy, APril 25, 2016 | the observer 


Soccer 
continued From page 12 
proud of all the growth we’ve put in and the way we finished off very strong.” 
notre dame’s women took less than three minutes to get on the scoreboard, as a cross from ju­nior midfielder Kaleigh olmsted found sophomore junior Kaitlin Klawunder, who sent it into the bottom corner of the net. a foul by sophomore defender taylor Klawunder in notre dame’s box gave mexico the opportunity to equalize, and nancy antonio converted sending sophomore goalkeeper lexi nicholas the wrong way. although the irish couldn’t find another goal in the first half, they had the much greater share of the chances, with freshman forward Jennifer westendorf coming close on two one-on-one opportunities with mexico goalkeeper emily alvarado. 
barely over two minutes into the second half, the irish had added two more goals. a free kick in the first minute of the half from westendorf was flicked across goal by junior midfielder sandra yu and bundled into the net by sophomore defender ginny mcgowan, before westendorf added a goal of her own on a counter-attack just over a minute later. continuing to control the game, the irish added a fourth goal just past the hour mark, when a westendorf corner found mcgowan, who headed it into the 
bookstore 
continued From page 12 
confidence,” mazza said. “we’ve been here, and we’ve won this, and starting last spring when we won it our goal was to repeat, so all along we’ve been confident in our ability to do that and so we’ve had close games and we’ve had our ups and downs, but we just have confidence in our guys and our team. … it’s awesome. it’s such a historic tournament, and some of the great athletes in notre dame history, the bill laimbeers, the tim browns, have won here on these courts, so to be a part of that and go out like this, winning back to back titles and heading out as a senior, it’s pretty special. especially with these guys who have become some of my closest buddies.” 
Semifinals 
no. 2 team 2 def. no. 3 the drones 
the first game of the bookstore basketball semifinals Friday pitted the second-seeded team 2, cap­tained by senior John lammers, against the no. 3-seeded the drones, who were led by graduate student michael bradley. 
the drones came out strong in the first half, using their size ad­vantage to get baskets early and often while effectively slowing down team 2’s offense with a 2-3 zone. the drones built an 11-7 lead by halftime as the game became increasingly physical, with both top corner of the goal. 






the game was of particular sig­nificance for notre dame sopho­more midfielder monica Flores. after her performance in last year’s game, she was called up to the mexico u-20 squad herself as part of qualification for the 2016 u-20 women’s world cup. Flores said she loves the game because she feels a strong connection to both teams. 
“it was quite an experience,” Flores said. “i played with them on wednesday and it was amaz­ing to be back because i hadn’t played with them in a while. Just playing with them for two days again was incredible. i wanted to stay with them but i had to run around and start training with notre dame to play against mexico today, and it was weird because both teams are com­pletely like family to me. it was definitely weird and definitely interesting to go at them as an op­ponent and as an enemy, because every game you have to go at your opponent like you want to beat them.” 
the men’s team also took an early lead, as freshman for­ward Jon gallagher slotted a ball from sophomore defender blake townes through the legs of goalkeeper abraham romero. gallagher had two more first-half chances to widen the lead, but romero kept his side in the game. 
in the second half, a free kick from carlos antuna was swung into the box, where edson alvarez headed it over junior goalkeep­er chris hubbard and into the 
teams and individuals in the crowd chirping at one another. 
“it was a barn-burner,” lammers said. “[the drones] have a really good zone defense that we had trouble with in the beginning and it kept us at bay. we wanted to get out and run more, but it was pretty tough because they get back on [defense] and rebound well.” 
team 2 made its necessary ad­justments and came out strong in the second half, riding the enthu­siasm of their supporters and the foul trouble of their opponent to claw their way back, finally tying the game at 18 apiece. From there, both teams made clutch shots to put themselves in a position to win the game, but the difference came down to inability of the drones to make late free throws, and team 2 shots from the charity stripe to snatch the win. 
“we had to stay physical, stay strong on d, and hope that they miss some free throws at the end,” lammers said. “[the win] feels great, we got one more but this was a really, really fun game.” 
no. 1 Finnigan’s def. no. 4 traded by the 76ers for 3rd round draft Picks 
the second semifinal game matched the top-seeded Finnigan’s and senior captain patrick mazza against no. 4 seed traded by the 76ers for 3rd round draft picks, who were captained by sophomore reed hunnicut and featured varsi­ty basketball player and senior a.J. burgett. 
besides being tasked with net. romero pulled off another impressive save, diving across the goal to turn an irish header around the post. inside the last 15 minutes, hector mascorro broke into the box and squared the ball towards pedro goulart, who scored on what proved to be the last goal of the game. 
deep into stoppage time, senior midfielder evan panken hit a shot that seemed destined for the bot­tom corner of the goal, but again, romero got the better of it and en­sured the win for his team. irish head coach bobby clark said the opportunity to play the mexico u-20 teams is a great positive for the notre dame soccer programs and the local community. 
“this is a fantastic event for the whole of south bend and espe­cially the hispanic community,” clark said. “there was a fantastic crowd here on a cold night, we’re playing one of the best youth soc­cer programs in the world. you’re getting them on your doorstep and i think it’s fantastic for soc­cer lovers, it’s fantastic for the mexican population. i just wish we would get more students out to be honest because it’s a great experience. 
“it was a fun game. i’m obvi­ously disappointed to lose, you never like to lose, but i think it as a great test for our players, i think we will have learned a lot and it should help us when we come into the toughest of the acc games next year.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
guarding burgett for the majority of the game, junior forward conor colpoys carried the load offen­sively for Finnigan’s, making shots from all over the court and giving the defending champions a 11-5 halftime lead. 
“conor — there was really no an­swer for him today,” mazza said. “i don’t know how many buckets he had but it’s gotta be close to 11 or 12, so he was just too much for them today.” 
Finnigan’s didn’t fall prey to a comeback like it saw in the ear­lier semifinal. instead, they picked right where they left off in the sec­ond half, playing methodically and executing their offensive and defensive sets well, using their skill and size to prevent any type of comeback from traded by the 76ers for 3rd round draft picks. despite burgett making several tough shots in the second half, Finnigan’s still won by a score of 21-15. mazza, who sent a statement early with a made hook shot over burgett, stuffed the stat sheet with a large collection of points, rebounds and blocks, and commented on the overall skill of his team and how they were able to play in the semifinal. 
“we got some talented guys — guys that can really get into the lane and make some things happen with their penetration,” mazza said. “i thought our guys fought hard … it was a great team effort by us.” 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu and  Tobias Hoonhout at  thoonhou@nd.edu 


the observer | mondAy, APril 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd womEn’S lACroSSE | nd 17, ohio state 9 
Notre Dame bounces back, overpowers Ohio State 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
one of the nation’s top offens­es returned to form saturday, as no. 10 notre dame notched a big win in the race for ncaa tournament seeding, defeating no. 9 ohio state, 17-9, at ohio stadium. 
Just five days after being held to four goals in a loss to no. 4 usc, things were different — it didn’t take notre dame (12-5, 4-3 acc) 20 minutes to top that mark against the buckeyes, as junior attack cortney Fortunato’s 52nd goal of the season and third of the game gave the irish a 5-4 lead with 10:06 to play in the first half. 
notre dame junior midfielder casey pearsall followed with two goals of her own, and once notre dame obtained that 7-4 lead, it never surrendered it, handing the buckeyes (11-4, 2-2 big ten) their third consecutive loss. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny called practice this 
see w laX PAGE 10 


bookStorE bASkEtbAll 
Finnigan’s repeats as champions 
By JOE EVERETT and TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writers 
Championship 
no. 1 Finnigan’s def. no. 2 team 2. 
history was made sunday night as top-seeded Finnigans became the first notre dame-based team to repeat as bookstore basketball champions in 20 years as they de­feated no. 2 seed team 2. 
the game started with Finnigan’s pounding the inside with their senior center and captain patrick mazza, but team 2 played physi­cally to counter the size advantage. but as the half drew on, team 2 got into foul trouble, and Finnigan’s started to dominate on both ends of the court. Finnigans ended the half on a 6-0 run, including a string of mazza layups and free throws, to make it 11-3. 
“we knew it was going to be scrappy, and we knew it was going to be intense,” mazza said. “a lot of those guys are our buddies who play with on club ball so we knew it was going to be a dogfight. but we felt that if we just stayed true to our game plan … get on the glass, and just try and outwork them, we would just come out on top. we kinda set the tone early and just pretty much had control of the game from there.” 
team 2 came out trying to in­crease the tempo of the game and catch Finnigan’s off guard, but the defending champs stood their ground and answered blow-for­blow. mazza continued to use his size to his advantage and domi­nate the inside. team 2 had to fin­ish with four players on the floor, however, as one of their players dislocated his shoulder after a hard collision on a fast break. although team 2 managed to score three unanswered baskets to make the score 19-15 and get the crowd go­ing, Finnigans put the game away, and calmly drained two straight free throws to win their second-straight title. 
“i think came down to our 
see booKstore PAGE 11 

SoCCEr | meXican national team 
ND welcomes Mexican national teams 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
alumni stadium hosted 3,500 spectators Friday that came to see the latest chapter in notre dame’s series with the mexico u-20 national teams. in the early kickoff, the irish women’s team dispatched the mexico u-20 women by a score of 4-1, before the notre dame men’s team was defeated 2-1 in the second game of the evening. 
the games have formed a part of notre dame’s spring schedule for almost every year since 2005, and has fea­tured players such as for­mer manchester united and real madrid forward Javier hernández. irish women’s soccer head coach theresa romagnolo said the game is always a highlight of her team’s year. 
“it was a fun game, a fun environment, we love this game, we look forward to it all spring,” romagnolo said. “it’s a great reward for all the hard work we put in, and i was really 
see soccer PAGE 11 

mEn’S lACroSSE | unc 17, nd 15 
Irish fall to ACC rival Tar Heels 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
with 10 minutes left in the game, it looked as if no. 1 notre dame was going to lock up its second straight acc regular sea­son title. almost eight minutes later, the script was completely flipped as no. 13 north carolina scored seven straight goals to win 17-15 and snatch a piece of the acc regular season title on saturday at Kenan stadium in chapel hill, north carolina. 
it was a fallout that pushed the nation’s top team back from claiming the top seed in the up­coming acc tournament. with the loss, notre dame (9-2, 3-1 acc) is now the no. 2 seed while the tar heels (8-5, 3-1) currently hold the no. 1 seed. 
“we all hate losing so everyone was upset but we can’t get too low or too high after one game,” sophomore attack mikey wynne said. “we will watch film and learn from that game and move forward with our year.” 
the irish came out firing on all cylinders in the first period. after a tar heel goal 17 seconds into the game, notre dame respond­ed with three straight goals in a two-minute span. senior attack matt Kavanagh netted the first of the three scores, followed by a goal from junior midfielder 
p.J Finley and finally a score from junior midfielder sergio perkovic. the irish would go on to take a 6-3 lead after the first period, which included a last second buzzer-beating goal from freshman midfielder drew schantz from past midfield. 
notre dame and north carolina would go into the half tied 8-8, but the irish came out of the first half just as they did in the opening period — they scored six goals to just one tar heel goal in the third period. less than two minutes into the third quarter, senior midfielder trevor brosco broke the tie to give the irish the lead with a score. wynne also increased his season total for goals to 28 after scoring two goals in the third period. perkovic, freshman at­tack ryder garnsey and fresh­man midfielder timmy phillips all added to the offensive output for the irish to give them a 14-9 advantage heading into the final period. 
see m laX PAGE 10 






