The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 106 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Community remembers Theresa Sagartz 
‘She was so entirely giving of her time, her wisdom and her witty charm’ 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
“she’s one of the most genu­ine people i’ve ever met — and she’s that way with everyone,” junior erica Tabor said. 
“i think that’s the reason why so many people are hurt­ing through this loss. she touched anybody that she came in contact with, whether it was sharing with them in laughter or helping them out with schoolwork. she just re­lated to anybody.” 
Theresa sagartz, a ju­nior and former resident of pangborn hall, died last week in her off-campus apartment from natural causes related to a chronic medical condi­tion. sagartz was originally from albuquerque, n.m., and was pursuing a degree in chemistry. 
“she was incredibly loyal and caring for her friends, which is definitely one of the things i’ve admired most about her,” matt schaefer, sagartz’s boyfriend, said. “it was always kind of amazing to me how she was always able to put them first.” 

‘So entirely giving’ 
Tabor, sagartz’s roommate, said sagartz loved taking care of others, regardless of wheth­er they were a close friend or a complete stranger. 
“we would joke and say, ‘Theresa, you could get emo­tionally attached to a rock,’” she said. “when we lived off-campus this year, i don’t think i cooked us dinner once be­cause she was the house mom who just loved taking care of 
see memorial PAGE 5 

RACHEL O’GRADY | The Observer 
A candle display at the Grotto spells out the initials of junior Theresa Sagartz, who died last week from natural causes related to a chronic medical condition. 



court rules in favor of espn 
Observer Staff Report 
The indiana court of appeals ruled Tuesday that notre dame security police (ndsp) is a public agency sub­ject to public record laws, re­versing a decision made in the trial court in notre dame’s favor. 
The university was sued by espn in January 2015, after notre dame refused to release incident reports related to stu­dent-athletes on two separate occasion 
The st. Joseph county superior court issued a ruling in notre dame’s favor in april 2015. espn appealed the de­cision, and both parties pre­sented their oral arguments to a three-judge panel on feb. 25. 
The case hinges on ndsp’s status as either a private or public agency — under indiana’s access to public records act (apra), if ndsp is considered a public agency, it would be required to re­lease certain records. espn reporter maggie smith argued the duties of ndsp are equal to those of any public police department. 
“what we know from notre dame’s own crime logs is they arrest, search, interro­gate for crimes such as rape, burglary, larceny, aggravated battery, counterfeit, drug pos­session, duis — these are not the actions of your library se­curity guard who is there to make sure that kids don’t take books,” she said, according to an audio recording of the oral arguments available on the indiana Judicial branch’s website. 
notre dame attorney damon leichty argued the law was never intended to apply to private colleges and universi­ties. however, since october 2014, two state officials — public access counselor luke britt and attorney general greg Zoeller — have said they consider ndsp to be subject 
see espn PAGE 4 



Sister of Mercy explores theme of joy in poverty 
By MARTHA REILLY 
associate saint mary’s editor 

Just last week, sister marilyn lacey resided in a cave in south sudan, where she works to transform the lives of women in poverty. but last night she spoke over 7,000 miles away at saint mary’s about the abundance of mercy and joy in all of god’s creation. 
lacey said god maintains connections with all his peo­ple, even those who feel as if their sins render them un­worthy of his love. 
“we somehow got the feel­ing as young people that we had to be ready to meet god,” lacey said. “The funny thing is, god doesn’t wait for us to be ready. god’s goodness is always flowing. it doesn’t matter how distracted we are.” 
recognition of such con­stant support from god can help people interpret life’s challenges as blessings, ac­cording to lacey. 
“god is constantly giving his goodness, his mercy, his love, whether or not we are paying attention,” lacey said. “we’re not often in touch 
see mercy PAGE 5 


Professor dies in Texas 
Observer Staff Report 

Theology professor fr. virgilio elizondo, who is widely consid­ered the founder of u.s. latino theology and received the 1997 laetare medal, committed sui­cide monday in san antonio, ac­cording to a south bend Tribune report. 
“san antonio police department officers were called at 1:55 p.m. monday to a house owned by elizondo,” the report stated.“The bexar county medi­cal examiner confirmed to the [san antonio] express-news on Tuesday that elizondo was pro­nounced dead five minutes after officers arrived, of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.” 
elizondo, the university of notre dame professor of pastoral and hispanic Theology, was named in a 2015 san antonio civ­il suit alleging elizondo sexually abused the unnamed plaintiff when he was a minor, accord­ing to a report originally run by wsbT. elizondo last taught at the university during the fall 2014 semester, according to a statement made by university spokesperson dennis brown in the south bend Tribune report. 
The lawsuit was filed against the archdiocese of san antonio, fr. 
see professor PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s lacrosse PAGE 16 fooTball  PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What three words would you choose to describe yourself? 

Carolyn Arcuri 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“stressed, goofy, killin’ it.” 
Cat Murad 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“outgoing, nice, chill.” 
Evelyn Andersen 
first year 
regina hall 
“approachable, loyal, funny.” 


Kaylie Johnson 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“compassionate, intelligent, empowered.” 
Leticia Cobarrubias 
first year 
regina hall 
“caring, outgoing, zealous.” 
Maggie Williams 
junior 
le mans hall 
“nurse, outgoing, happy.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Want your event included here? 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Carnatic Classical Pasquerilla East Men’s Tennis vs. Hawaii Club’s Lu’au Men’s Tennis vs. 
Systems & Web Administrators 

(574)631-8839 Music Concert Paddy Parade Duke Stepan Center Miami Andrews Auditorium campus-wide Eck Tennis Pavilion 5 p.m.- 8 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Policies 

7 p.m.- 8 p.m. 4:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. Hawaiian food, hula 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 

Featuring vocals, violin Featuring ND bagpipes The Irish take on the dancing and a lei-The Irish take on the 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, and mridangam. and campus clubs. Blue Devils. making station. Hurricanes. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 

Memorial Mass Irish and English LGBT Retreat Men’s Lacrosse vs. Palm Sunday Mass 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Basilica of the Sacred Bilingual Mass all day Virginia Basilica of the Sacred possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
Heart  Basillica of the Sacred Sacred Heart Parish Arlotta Stadium Heart 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 

9 p.m.- 10 p.m. Heart Center 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 12 p.m. - 1:15 p.m. 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not In remembrance of 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. PrismND’s 24-hour The Irish take on the Music by the Notre necessarily those of The observer. 
junior Theresa Sagartz. Celebrating St. Patrick. retreat. Cavaliers. Dame Folk Choir. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 

speaker considers economic future 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 

except during exam and vacation periods. what it was in 2006.” demand for goods and oil and the less-
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 

semester. news writer goolsbee said the economy has un-ened importance of oil in the economy 
The observer is published at: 

024 south dining hall dergone fundamental changes which due to energy efficiency. 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices The man once named washington’s disprove this theory. as for washington, goolsbee said if 
posTmasTer 

send address corrections to: funniest celebrity, robert p. “all the v-shaped recoveries in u.s. the government did anything, it might 
The observer 

p.o. box 779 gwinn professor of economics at history have come when the economy do harm rather than good. 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-077 the university of chicago austan can return right back to what it was do-“probably they would do nothing,” 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 

all reproduction rights are reserved. goolsbee, spoke Tuesday evening in ing before the recession,” he said, “This he said. “There is a small probability the eck center on the future of the time we had a [housing] bubble, and that they do something way worse like american economy. the bubble popped, and we can’t return we like default on the u.s. debt for no 

“it is usually the case that when you to that.” reason.” have a deep downturn, it is followed by a transformation of the u.s. economy despite the forecast of many econo­a rapid recovery,” goolsbee said. “we from that which existed before the 2008 mists that the u.s. economy is entering 
News Sports 

rachel o’grady ben padanilam didn’t have this ‘v-shaped’ recovery af-financial crisis, according to goolsbee, a period of stagnation, goolsbee said nicole caratas manny de Jesus 
ter the worst economic downturn since is necessary for a full recovery. there is reason to be hopeful. 
catherine owers elizabeth greason 

we’ve had gdp data, it never came back.” “Transforming from what we were “we start from a position of strength 
Graphics Scene 

These groups believe, according to doing to something new, and that is and not of weakness,” he said. “ … The 
lauren weldon Kelly mcgarry 

goolsbee, “we go through a recession, never a fast process, and it is never an cost of capital is favorable, we have a 
Photo Viewpoint 

a financial crisis, and once the dele-easy process,” he said. “ … it’s hap-productive workforce, we have a strong 
chris collins austin Taliaferro 

veraging finishes then we will start pening, but it’s happening slowly, and rule of law, and it is consistently shown growing.” that is why we never had a v-shaped in survey … the number one place to goolsbee, who formerly served as recovery.” invest is the united states. 
Corrections 

chairman of the council of economic There are four major factors that “we remain the most entrepreneur-
The observer regards itself as advisors to president obama, said many economists believe could help ially-oriented, innovative culture on a professional publication and 
proponents of this idea rely on flawed save the american economy: con-earth, if you look at data. ... The ability strives for the highest standards 
logic. sumer spending, other countries, oil of u.s. businesses to adopt to new tech-
of journalism at all times. we do, 

“The fed and the private sector have prices and washington. all these fail nology ... we have proven better at that 
however, recognize that we will make 

been wrong year after year because short according to goolsbee. he said than anyone else.” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

they have embodied in their mind an other countries cannot help the re-
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so implicit return to normal,” he said. “in covery, and lower oil prices won’t help Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at  
we can correct our error. their mind what is normal is defined as the economy because of low global lmasinmo@nd.edu 


Expert examines political communities 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
political philosophy is in the bricks of notre dame, according to david campbell, political sci­ence department chair, who opened the inaugural series of the niemeyer lectures in political philosophy on Tuesday. according to a university press release, the niemeyer lectures are pre­sented by the political the­ory program to “honor the contributions and memory of the late gerhart niemeyer, professor of political philos­ophy at [notre dame] from 1955 to 1997.” 
Jeremy waldron, professor of law at new york university, is the first speaker in the niemeyer lecture series. according to a university press release, waldron will give four lectures over a pe­riod of two weeks titled “The principle of proximity.” 
his first lecture, “Two models of political community,” tackled the topic of political associa­tion and the division of dis­tinct political communities. waldron said people should form political communities with those who are close to them in physical space, par­ticularly those with whom they are most likely to fight. 
“we should divide our­selves into communities — of whatever size — that bring us to terms with peo­ple in our vicinity, whoever they are,” he said. “we need to come to terms with those people we are side-by-side with.” 
according to waldron, typical political philosophy divides societies by ethnic groups or nationalist ten­dencies. waldron first said the “affinity” models of po­litical communities are in­herently incorrect. he said those who submit to these theories enter a political community with others they are similar to and believe that the basis of a political community should be peo­ple with a shared sense of sympathy, friendship and cooperation — though that does not always have to be the case. 
“i wish to cast doubt on the principle that political communities should func­tion as ethnical or national 
paid adverTisemenT 


homelands,”  waldron said.  to terms with each other,  not require a state to enter a  
“we should dispel the theo­ otherwise  they  will  fight.  constant period of conflict,  
ries that the ethnic nation- They need to set up political  but he does believe that the  
al model is the only one in  and legal structures to cre­ state is born out of com- 
town. you have a responsi­ ate peace.”  promise, which stems from  
bility to join in a political  he  said  “conflict  mod- conflict.  
els”  of  political  communi­ “mine is not a theory of  
ties, popularized by Thomas  state minimalism, it is not  
“We should dispel the theories  hobbes and immanuel Kant, explicitly remove the idea of “choice” from the forma­ a theory of the night watch­man state, i am not saying that settling and reentering  
that the ethnic  tion of political community.  conflict is the sole function  
national model is the only one in town. You have a  Kantian theory notes that those “quarreling” with one another have a moral obliga­tion to enter into a political  of political community and the sole task for the state, but it is necessary and indis­pensable,” he said.  
responsibility to join in a political community with those who you are  community with each other, and waldron said he sup­ports this theory. however, waldron said he is not encouraging the dis­ waldron said the conflict model accounts for fighting between people, unlike the affinity model, which deals with fighting by simply sep­ 
most likely to fight. These people need to come to terms with each other,  solution of nationality or the eradication of culture. according to waldron, cul­ture should not dictate the foundation of a political  arating people. “at least the conflict-based model, the Kantian model, the hobbesian model, ac­knowledges up front that  
otherwise they will fight. ”  community. “instead of viewing [cul­ture and national spirt] as  we have to come to terms with conflict over resources, rather than trying to wish  
David Campbell  a  prerequisite  for  politi­ that  away  with  the  forma­ 
department chair  cal  community,  instead  of  tion of the state,” he said.  
political science  viewing it as the building  “so i think [this model] is  
block for a political commu­ a safer bet for our modern,  
nity, we might see it instead  mixed up world.”  
community with those who  as a very helpful artifact,”  
you are most likely to fight.  waldron said.  Contact Jenna Wilson at   
These people need to come  he said his theory  does  jwilso35@nd.edu  

Graduate students present research in competition 
to more than 35 research hear about because it’s set 
By MEGAN VALLEY 

news writer universities in the united up in such a way that’s jar-
states, including many of gon-free and that’s general 
notre dame gradu-notre dame’s peers, accord-enough for a non-special­ate students from the ing to bryson. ized audience and is also colleges of arts and letters, competitors in the finals captivating.” engineering and science have been preparing since south bend mayor pete will present their research mid-January. buttigieg, south bend brew in the final round of Three-“it was pretty strict this werks co-founder and owner minute Thesis (3mT) on year, with what was regu-drew elegante, Trustee of wednesday night in the lating entries,” bryson said. the south bend community Jordan auditorium in a com-“you had to have passed school corporation maritza petition to win $1,000. your candidacy exams, you robles and dean of the 
evan bryson, communica-had to be well in your way graduate school laura tions specialist for the grad-in a ph.d.; you couldn’t be a carlson are the judges who uate school and publicity master’s student. you had to will choose the first- and coordinator for 3mT notre be dissertating or, at least, second-place winners; at-dame, said the competition working towards a disser-tendees will vote for the provided graduate students tation. really, this was just third-place winner. lou with a unique opportunity. a gate for people who were nanni, notre dame vice 
“it’s this opportunity deep in their research and president of university rela­for graduate students, in a had something to share.” tions, will be the master of competitive space, to de-nine ph.d. students — ceremonies. scribe the fantastic research three from each of the col-The first-place winner will they’re doing here,” bryson leges — will be presenting represent the university at a said. “i feel like this is a qual-in the finals, selected from conference in april. ity contest because i don’t over 30 presenters in the “This really is just promot­think graduate students re-preliminary rounds. ing really fascinating re­ally have a public forum at “i sat in on all of them and search that’s happening on notre dame to describe the it was really fun,” bryson campus that i think anyone work that they do, especial-said. “part of this experience would be interested in hear­ly with each other and with is getting graduate students ing about,” bryson said. “The undergrads and with people to be able to talk about their people who are presenting from the community. we’re research in a way that isn’t are fascinating individuals framing it as a celebration of specific to other research-with diverse backgrounds. their research.” ers, that isn’t just a conver-They’re intense scholars and 
3mT originated at the sation they’re having with it’s mesmerizing to listen to university of Queensland their lab, but is something people who are experts.” in australia as an academic you or i could understand, competition for ph.d. stu-that anyone coming into the Contact Megan Valley at  dents. it has since spread competition would want to mvalley@nd.edu 


Professor 
conTinued from page 1 

Jesus armando dominguez and elizondo in bexar county dis­trict court. it alleges dominguez repeatedly sexually abused the plaintiff, listed as “John doe” in the 1980s. when the plaintiff asked elizondo for help dealing with dominguez’s abuse in 1983, the lawsuit alleges “elizondo began to fondle the plaintiff’s genitals, taking advantage of the same sexual liberties plaintiff complained of with father dominguez.” 
in a report in the express-news, elizondo denied the allegations. 
“The allegations made against me are not true and have abso­lutely no basis in fact,” elizondo said in the express-news report. “i deny all the claims which have been asserted against me.” 
The lawyer representing the plaintiff in the lawsuit, Thomas 
J. henry, said elizondo’s death is “unfortunate,” mysantonio.com reported Tuesday. 
“The next stage in this litigation was discovery production and the taking of depositions,” henry said. “The taking of father elizondo’s deposition could have led us to the truth regarding his actions, and hisuntimely death atthis juncture raises even more questions. we will continue to seek and uncover the facts of this matter.” 
public documents espn sought,” the ruling stated. “we instruct the trial court to determine which of the re­cords the police department was required to produce un­der apra and then order the police department to pro­duce only those records.” 
paul browne, vice president for public affairs and com­munications at notre dame, said in an email that the university believes the court of appeals went “beyond the law.” 
“since the opinion is not certified or final, it does not yet have effect, and the par­ties cannot act on it,” he said. “we will appeal to the indiana supreme court.” 
The appeals court ruling may have a reduced impact if indiana house bill 1022, a bill to change the public record requirements for pri­vate universities, is passed into law. The bill would re­quire police departments at private colleges and univer­sities to only release infor­mation about incidents that result in arrests or incarcera­tions, exempting a large por­tion of cases occurring on college campuses. 
The bill passed indiana’s general assembly last week and is now being considered by gov. mike pence. 
paid adverTisemenT 



ESPN 
conTinued from page 1 
to apra. 
Zoeller said in a statement that he considers the appeals court ruling to be “a quali­fied victory for public access and transparency, concepts my office long has supported. The public has the right to transparency and account­ability when police power is being exercised,” according to the south bend Tribune. 
according to the court of appeals ruling, ndsp does qualify as a “public agency” under apra’s definition of the term because it exercises public functions. 
“it would not be appropri­ate for the police department, having availed itself of its statutory right to exercise these public functions, to then be able to circumvent public records requirements to which all other entities exercising these same func­tions are required to adhere,” the ruling stated. 
The case will return to the trial courts to determine which records ndsp will be required to produce. 
“we do not, as espn re­quests, find that the trial court must order the police department to produce the 

paid adverTisemenT 



Memorial 
conTinued from page 1 
people.” 
senior Taryn gutierrez, who knew sagartz in middle school and high school, said sagartz would rearrange an already busy schedule to check in with one of her friends or family members if she thought they needed company. 
“Theresa was hyper-aware of what others needed, sometimes before we even knew what we needed,” gutierrez said. “she was so entirely giving of her time, her wisdom and her witty charm. her laugh was conta­gious and possibly the best remedy she could offer to any ailing situation.” 
Junior clare carmody said sagartz helped her transi­tion when she transferred from saint mary’s to notre dame last year. 
“i had known Theresa since freshman year. she didn’t care that i went to saint mary’s. she was always very friendly and open with me,” she said. “and when i got in, she completely wel­comed me with open arms.” 
‘Ready for everything’ 
during her senior year of high school, sagartz planned to attend the air force academy when she was diagnosed with a rare autoimmune disease, gutierrez said. sagartz was forced to withdraw from the academy and instead came to notre dame. 
“nothing could get that girl down,” she said. “her faith, coupled with an unri­valed drive for life, made her one of the strongest people i knew.” 
sagartz could always be counted upon for a spon­taneous trip to lafortune student center or the dining halls, junior christine Kager said. 
“she was also just ready for everything,” Kager said. “even if she didn’t neces­sarily want to do something but you asked, she would be ready to go in five minutes. you didn’t question it at all. 
she  just  wanted  to  spend  
time with you.”  
Junior  maggie  mcdevitt  

said sagartz had a love for exploring the outdoors, es­pecially in her home state of new mexico. 
“she was very adven­turous. she loved hiking, camping — she loved new mexico,” mcdevitt said. “she just thought albuquerque was the best place in the world.” 
schaefer said sagartz al­ways had a witty response at the ready. 
“she was very funny and didn’t get caught up in a lot of the typical things,” he said. “right after she turned 21, she was planning to go to her ‘first feve,’ which was halloween week. instead of the usual college-aged girl halloween outfit, she decid­ed to wear a pizza onesie.” 
‘A passion for learning’ 
mcdevitt said sagartz was “secretly a total genius.” 
“she’s the kind of person that was in really hard class­es — she’s the only reason i made it through chemistry freshman year — but you never knew it,” she said. “i don’t know when she did all her work.” 
Tabor said sagartz was al­ways asking questions, about academic subjects, people’s feelings and every topic in between. 
“whether it was baseball team stats or asking me about accounting … she would just sit and ask hundreds of ques­tions, just to hear what we know. and then she would remember it all,” she said. 
at notre dame, sagartz served as secretary for the college republicans and worked as a student manager in lafortune student center. she was also devoted to re­search projects she did on campus, Tabor said. 
“in the final weeks, she was really dedicated to do­ing a research study on her disease because there wasn’t much known about it. it’s a very rare disease,” she said. “one of the last things she did was participate in this study to help people learn more about it.” 
sr. mary donnelly, sagartz’s former rector in pangborn hall, said sagartz was passionate about every­thing she did. 
“[Theresa] was a young woman who was filled with life and energy and enthu­siasm, and this spirit was contagious,” she said. “… she was determined to do her best at all times and in all things.” 
‘Unapologetically herself’ 
Junior heather lennon, who lived with sagartz her freshman and sophomore year, said sagartz stayed true to her convictions in every as­pect of her life. 
“she is just so unapologeti­cally herself,” lennon said. “she’s 100 percent who she is — and she’s not only okay with that, but she loves that. 
“you could have a 30-sec­ond conversation with her and still feel like you knew her, just because she was so upfront and genuine.” 
schaefer said this openness made sagartz an easy person to talk to and confide in. 
“she was confident, in a very charming way, about who she was,” he said. “she had great stories, but she was also a great listener.” 

mcdevitt said sagartz was never afraid to express her­self and her beliefs. 
“she knew what she be­lieved, and she stood up for it all the time. she didn’t compromise,” she said. “she wasn’t mean or aggressive about it. she would just say, ‘This is what i believe, and this is what i think is the truth. i’m going to defend that.’” 
‘This too shall pass’ 
mcdevitt said sagartz al­ways wore a ring with the words “this too shall pass” 
— her favorite quote — in­scribed in it. 
“it wasn’t just that things will get better, like ‘this bad thing will pass,’” she said. “it meant even the good things are fleeting, so you have to enjoy them. They’re not go­ing to last forever, so while they’re here be present and really enjoy them.” 
sagartz lived out this mantra, especially in recent months, Tabor said. 
“something that has really helped me … is that when Theresa passed, she was the happiest she’s ever been,” Tabor said.“she was in love, she was in good places with all her friends, she had a plan for what she was going to do when she got out of college. 
“she was just so happy, and she had so much love to give. we just need to keep that hap­piness and love and carry it with us.” 
sagartz’s bright personality brought others happiness as well, lennon said. 
“she is the most loving, naturally beautiful, caring, kind, hilarious, best friend in the entire world. she is just a beautiful person inside and out,” she said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
Mercy 
conTinued from page 1 
with that, but when we are, it changes everything.” 
lacey said her extensive work with displaced popu­lations in africa, asia and the united states taught her to seek hope in the least likely of places. she said she was recently strolling through south sudan when a young man she did not rec­ognize pulled over his car, picked her up and twirled her around, claiming that she helped him at a refugee camp in Kenya 12 years ago. 
“he said, ‘everywhere i go, i’m looking for you. i knew i would see you one more time,’” lacey said. 
This particular instance showed lacey the impor­tance of trusting god, for in accepting his mercy, she abandoned stress and worry. 
“i was leading a very busy life, a distracted life,” lacey said. “i had this insight that maybe there was a little part inside me, like a pilot light, that was always attentive to god. it’s so affirming. it’s so freeing.” 
lacey said people should strive to learn from their mistakes and recover, rather than dwelling on flaws. 
“god wants mercy not perfection,” lacey said. “when you can laugh at your mistakes and just en­joy the exuberance of god’s presence, your life changes. god’s own joy begins to take root in us.” 
lacey said she believes people should treat oth­ers with the same compas­sion god has bestowed upon them, which motivated her to found mercy beyond borders, which assists op­pressed women in south sudan. 
“south sudan is at a critical point where it has never edu­cated girls,” lacey said. “we are forging ways for women and girls in extreme poverty to learn, connect and lead. … we are all kin, and that com­pels us to resist what is not of god. separateness causes divisions in our world. going out and doing justice is not a burden.” 
her desire to help the help­less stems from an admira­tion for god’s mercy, which grants her the agency to in­teract with and learn from others, lacey said. 
“recognition of god’s mercy is humbling and free­ing, and it connects us with others in the world,” lacey said. “it’s so constant and ever-present. like the air, we don’t pay attention to it. we are absolutely immersed in mercy. god is busy trying to get us to pay attention to it and to believe it.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 
The best college advice 
Matt McMahon 
scene writer 
i’m graduating in two months, and i want to leave be­hind some parting advice for anyone who has anywhere from just those two months to three or four whole years left in their time at college. in my almost four years at notre dame, i’ve noticed it is very easy to fall into rou­tines. The campus is pretty self-sufficient and there are plenty of fail-safe systems set up expressly to make sure you remain comfortable and complacent. 
yet these same systems very much can, and do, put potentially harmful limitations on your college experi­ences. but that talk is for another time; come find me in person and i’d love to have a conversation about my takes on everything from the dorms to du lac to students’ access to south bend. i’ve experienced both the highs and lows of the social structures created by the university’s carefully constructed path for student life — again, come find me for my side of a fairly funny story i’m not going to get into here — and have come away with one general piece of advice. 
simply put: try new things. more specifically, don’t feel it is ever too late in your college career to try some­thing for the first time, or feel that you’ve passed some initial entry point to a new experience. in my four years, i told myself i would try at least one new thing and try to stick with it for the rest of that year. if i still liked it after that i kept with it; if not, i moved on with, at the least, the comfort — or, in some cases, the slight discomfort — of having tried it. 
my freshman year i joined the student international business council, and while i didn’t like the culture, i got to work on a couple real-world, creative-minded marketing projects. my sophomore year, i started writ­ing for the scene section of this very newspaper, and you can guess how that’s gone. Junior year, i explored a few of my interests in comedy, both in writing and per­forming, and am constantly trying to wedge those into the everyday. i also began my second major late that year and, as such, have dedicated my senior year’s “try something new” slot to making sure i complete it. 
i am incredibly thankful i challenged myself to this “one new thing a year” rule because it was the cata­lyst for at least one of the most foundational activities i’ve participated in here over my four years. Through working at The observer, i met my closest friend at notre dame, and have formed many meaningful re­lationships with people whom i probably would have otherwise never gotten close. in fact, hands down the three most formative, influential people on my time here i met as a result of what boils down to following a passion. 
what i’ve taken away from this is that there are most certainly other people at this school passionate about the same things you are, and they are waiting for you to join them in exploring those passions. There are no barriers to entry — you can join at any time and with as much or as little prior experience and you will, no matter what, be not only accepted and included, but also befriended. and if there are barriers to entry, that’s probably a sign you don’t want to be a part of that thing. or, on the off chance your interests aren’t represented by a group or club yet, you bet there are others out there waiting for one to be created — like, for example, the notre dame memory Team founded in 2013. who knows, taking that plunge and joining The observer as an inexperienced staff writer just might lead to you three years down the road starting a podcast about ce­real with one of the other writers — except don’t do that exactly, ‘cause that’s my thing. 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Are you proud? 
Patrick Kearney 
bridging the gap 

eight-year-old sofia yassini, a resident of dallas and a muslim-american, has recently spent many sleepless and tear-filled nights checking and re­checking the locks on her doors, convinced that president Trump would soon be sending the mili­tary to snatch her away. her fears are not unwar­ranted, given Trump’s chilling comments on forcing muslim citizens to wear special identification. worse, he has threatened to torture and murder the families of terrorists, seemingly for the sheer sport of it, and has given his approval to the idea of summarily executing suspected terrorists by firing squad with bullets coated in pigs’ blood. 
The exploitation of fear for political gain is text­book terrorism, but the presumptive nominee of the republican party is guilty of far worse. he is a pro-to-fascist lunatic with no regard for moral boundar­ies of any sort. 
but this is no longer about Trump. Truthfully, it never has been. demagoguery is only an interest­ing phenomenon in so far as what it represents, not for the identity that embodies its megalomania. Trump, the actor, the entertainer, is no force in and of himself; he is rather an ugly reflection of some­thing brewing in this country. 
True, the toupee may be a passing fad, but what it evinces will remain. Trump supporters existed before this election, and they will continue to exist after it has concluded. i would venture to say that nearly all of these individuals had their predisposi­tions formed long before Trump ever arrived on stage. he did not galvanize these people towards hatred, bigotry or ignorance in June of 2015; it was embedded in their hearts long before. 
while the existence of such reactionaries may seem anathema to our democratic principles, they have in fact always played an integral role in liberal society. The political philosopher lord John acton once noted: “at all times sincere friends of freedom have been rare, and its triumphs have been due to minorities, that have prevailed by associating themselves with auxiliaries whose objects often dif­fered from their own. and this association, which is always dangerous, has sometimes been disastrous.” 
conservatism has in particular been attacked throughout its history for being plagued by the ig­norant and the bigoted. This criticism is, as a matter of fact, true. but anyone who has read russell Kirk, leo strauss or yuval levin knows well that the con­servative tradition is rich with not only intellectual thinkers, but compassionate and unprejudiced men and women striving to advance the human condi­tion. so yes, it is true that these “friends of freedom” have had to rely on the ignorant and prejudiced to advance themselves electorally through the years, but are we truly fool enough to believe that the pro­gressive and libertarian movements are ripe with enlightened supporters down to the last voter? it is the raw fact of politics that all ideological move­ments are buttressed in part by the masses of the ignorant. This is certainly proven by the well-docu­mented fact that Trump also pulls substantial sup­port from self-identified liberals and independents. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the republican party has stumbled, but for all my considerable reservations with their policy stances, i refuse to charge their bedrock philosophy with some sort of inherent bigotry or racism. rather, the gop has made the fundamental error of selling this philosophy, the soul of their movement, for electoral gain. They, in effect, fed the beast and lost their hand in the process. in willingly stoking the anger and resentment of those who feel suspicious of our growing multiculturalism and cosmopolitanism, the gop has unleashed a monster they can no lon­ger control. acton’s partnership was meant to be an unhappy marriage of convenience. The republican party has turned this into an abusive relationship of dependency. 
Those who belong to the progressive side of the spectrum are not free of blame either. “Trumpic” demagoguery is as much a result of poor decisions of progressive “friends of freedom” as of those on the right. for how long did the progressive move­ment believe that they could utilize the funda­mentally undemocratic judicial system to ram blanket liberal policies down the throats of 300 million americans? leaving the question of moral weight aside, supreme court decisions such as obergefell v. hodges drastically altered the social and cultural customs of millions of conservative americans, men and women who felt their voices ripped from them by actors they have no control over. when politically-induced change becomes such a distant and elitist process that the average voter feels he no longer has any say in his country’s trajectory, resentment begins to percolate from the ground up. Trump now embodies this resentment. by sidestepping the organic and glacial process of acceptance that gay communities were already experiencing state-by-state, the progressive move­ment has threatened their judicial victories. beyond this, Trump represents a reactionary menace to the hard-earned progressive successes of not only lgbTQ groups, but racial and religious minorities as well. 
some on the progressive side celebrate the pre­sumptive nomination of Trump as the heralding of the end of the conservative movement. personally, i think this is foolishness. donald Trump will be a far more challenging opponent for hillary clinton than many of us are willing to admit. clinton beats Trump by a mere 6 percent in real clear’s national head-to-head, and this quite frankly understates Trump’s strengths in this election. Turnout, a far greater indicator of electoral success than early head-to-head polling, has been record-breaking this primary season for republicans and dismal for democrats. and even if Trump does not manage to win, his followers and his movement will remain. a Trump nomination will guarantee that this type of political demagoguery continues at all levels of government in the future. it is time for all friends of freedom, progressive, conservative and libertarian alike, to begin taking this problem seriously. while i do not pretend to have the answer, all i can advise at present is to think of sofia yassini and ask yourself: are you proud of the america that we have created? 
Patrick Kearney is a senior in St. Edward’s Hall majoring in political science. BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum together in discussions concerning public policy issues. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of BridgeND. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Where do you come from? 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 
it is a truth universally acknowledged not only that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife, but also that the united states of america is the melting pot of the world. 
but has anyone heard of the tossed salad metaphor? 
america as a tossed salad examines america as a place where many different cultures live together, but are not melted into each other. worlds collide but do not lose the parts that are integral to their being. we live next to each other, but not necessarily as one. 
This is becoming clearer as we become a more di­verse country. as we encounter different religious traditions, different cultural traditions, we have to learn to understand. it means we have people like my sisters and i, third-culture kids, who have grown up in one place, with the values of another and trying to understand how both can operate under the same circumstances. 
i am an immigrant from the united Kingdom. i speak the same language as many americans, i have been very privileged to go to catholic elementary and high schools (and obviously notre dame). i have never been afraid to walk around at night in my neighborhood, i have never been mistreated because of the color of my skin and i have not suffered in the ways that other im­migrants have suffered. 
but there are differences, some subtle, some not, that mark all those whose parents hail from another country. 
i remember the first day i found out i wasn’t american. i was bitterly disappointed. i had gotten into 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
“lily, what is your real name?,” a girl in my class asked me. i looked up from my laptop screen, shocked. i believed i did a good job to hide my identity as an international student from china. This question just punched me in my face, as if all my work was in vain. 
when i do the usual notre dame introduction, i would intentionally forget to mention my hometown. This amnesia started second semester freshman year, as the difference of how people treated me before and after they knew i was not from the united state was so drastic that it hurt my feelings. i have done experi­ments to assure myself of this. if i tell someone i am from beijing the first time we meet, then the conversa­tion usually lasts no more than five minutes. however, if i tell them after we have already become good friends, the friendship could usually continue. so the problem is not me being unable to make friends, but rather the time i choose to answer the simple question: “where are you from?” 
one of my friends has tried to persuade me many times that i should use my real name, as it makes me different. The thing is, i want to be the opposite of different. i miss being called Xiaoyu. Xiaoyu is a verb from the bible meaning “inform” and “tell.” more importantly, Xiaoyu can only be used by god. my parents want me to spread god’s word to the world, and finish whatever mission god plans me to do. apparently, Xiaoyu is not a common english name, a big argument at school after my classmates found out i wasn’t born here, and therefore could not be american. i felt hurt by this. To my little second-grade mind, it did not make sense why i had to be born here to be an american. To all intents and purposes, i identi­fied as an american. 

The idea of nationality had never crossed my mind. i had lived here since i was two and a half and whatever failings my british parents had, had not transferred to me. That night, however, my parents confirmed that i in fact was not american. and i cried. 
i look back on it now, and it may have been a slight overreaction — i was a very emotional child. it is a beautiful thing to be from a different country, to have different views on the world. 
but at the same time, there is a wonderful sense of be­longing to live in the country your passport is issued by. i grew up without the many cousins, aunts and uncles living nearby as my friends did. i had amazing friends, and in many ways, we were the same. but they didn’t have british parents, they didn’t say funny words, they didn’t watch bananas in pajamas or read hairy maclary from donaldson’s dairy. 
a simple piece of paper was all it took for me to feel different. 
This might seem foolish. This might seem ridiculous to the many people who have lived in this country for so long. but think about it. your nationality has never been questioned. you have never been asked why your british father is working for an american company at customs. your right to be here has never been asked of you. 
have i gotten used to being english in america? absolutely. i love america. i’m probably more support­ive of america than a lot of my american friends. part of it may be because i’m an idealist, but also because i 
my real name 
and i understand that most english-speaking people have trouble pronouncing it, so i hide it from others, like hiding a dirty secret. 
don’t get me wrong, i do like being kindly asked, “where are you from?” it allows me to tell my friends all the amazing things about beijing, and about china, where i am really proud to be from. i do like how my friends curiously ask me, “what is your chinese name?,” before trying so hard to pronounce it. i do like hearing “it’s a cool name, i like it” after i have told peo­ple the story of my name. what i am afraid of, however, is the interrogate: “what is your real name?” 
i believe that a real friend would not be scared away by my hometown or my accent. however, the thought that if i told my friends that i am chinese the first time i met them, we might have missed the opportunity to be friends makes me sad. most of the time, i do not want to endanger a potential friendship, so i choose to keep my mouth shut. 
not talking does not mean not thinking. i am trying very hard to figure out the answer to the question: how do i want others to address me, as lily or as Xiaoyu? i have had the american name “lily” since i was six, and my austrian and german friends call me lily, so i re­late myself to it. on the other hand, i have been called Xiaoyu all my life. i do not know which one defines me, or maybe i am both. having lived at notre dame for almost two years, i am definitely changed. i become have seen the way that america has changed a lot since i was little. but i’m still not american. my little green card still reminds me every day that i’m not. 
maybe one day i will become an american (i have one friend who made a bargain with me for my citizen­ship, we’ll see if she holds her end up). 
but i still question whether i feel american. and i think i would belittle the citizenship process, if i just chose to be american because i could be. 
The question, “where are you from?,” still bugs me a little. i prefer, “where do you live?” my parents think we are too american. i still feel too english. 
The whole point is that we all came from different places. we all arrived in this great country differently, and whether we are the tomatoes, the lettuce or the cucumber, we all have a place here. finding that place is difficult, and in the current recent election, it’s mak­ing it more and more difficult for immigrants to feel included. 
if i felt difficulty fitting in, for silly reasons, then other immigrants, who face real difficulties, must feel like complete outsiders. 
we’re all different and that’s great. That’s what makes america so beautiful. it’s part of the reason that people come to this country, because you don’t have to be from here to be american. 
you can become american. in a way that i think is the best part of this place. 
Kitty Baker is a senior majoring in the program of liberal studies and film, television and theatre. She is a proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at  cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
more and more lily, but i am still Xiaoyu. This struggle of name and identity has taken place the moment i ar­rived in the united states, and is going to continue for a while. hopefully the enlightened moment can come soon, as ralph ellison says in invisible man: “when i discover who i am, i’ll be free.” 
as a chinese student who was expecting huge cul­ture shock and serious homesickness, i am grateful to meet so many wonderful friends at notre dame. one time, i was with a group of friends, and everyone was joking that i am a spy from china. a girl whispered to me asking: “lily, are we being annoying for making fun of you or you are okay with it?” i told her i was fine and i found the joke funny as well (i am not a spy but just an ordinary student). even today, i am still thankful for her kindness and understanding. 
it is not hard to distinguish what question should be asked and what should not. if the question is coming from kindness and curiosity, then it is fine. if a question is from something else, for example, a negative ste­reotype impression of a group of people, then i would suggest not to ask. The most important thing to keep in mind is that no matter where we are from or what we are called, we are all irish in this loving and accepting notre dame community. 
Lily (Xiaoyu) Yu 
sophomore 



LAUREN WELDON | The Observer LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 



FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: look at all sides of a situation before you make a personal or professional move. change is needed, but your motives must be right and your strategy securely in place before you proceed. if you hide from the truth or neglect to share your feelings, you should limit what you can accomplish. precision, detail and honesty will come first. your numbers are 5, 17, 22, 26, 30, 37, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): live in the moment, but be reflective about what transpires around you. a nonjudgmental attitude will give you greater insight into yourself as well as those around you. make a commitment to be objective and positive. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): share your thoughts, feelings and intentions, and you will be met with interesting responses that will help you find the best solutions. enlist the help of those who have the skills you need to reach your goal. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a contemplative attitude will be in your best interest. watch and you will be able to determine what’s required of you in order to avoid any misunderstandings. stay in control by being informed so that you can make a practical decision. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): embrace the unknown, and you will expand your mind and your interests. share your thoughts with someone who comes from a different background or educational position, and you will obtain valuable information. love and romance are featured. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you need a little excitement in your life. Try something new or engage in a situation that challenges you mentally and physically, and you will come out the victor. Travel, learning and delving into alternative lifestyles are favored. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t leave anything to chance. detail and precision will be important if you don’t want to suffer a loss. Keep your emotions in check and avoid a dispute with anyone who is acting unreasonably. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get involved. being an onlooker will not help you advance. change your routine or find a way to stand out and be noticed. don’t be afraid to speak your mind or bring about the changes that will open up controversial discussions. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take charge and plan to get a lot done. delve into projects that excite you and spend time with people you find inspiring. romance should be high on your list as a motivation to explore different options and lifestyles. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you will be questioned if you aren’t detailed and precise. an explicit account of a situation that has the potential to disrupt your life should be dealt with head-on if you expect to come out on top. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take the road less traveled and you will find something that will change your life. a philosophical discovery will help you move in a direction that will ease your stress and satisfy your spiritual, physical and emotional needs. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): use ingenuity and muscle and you will get what you want. it’s up to you to take action and make things happen. express your feelings, but be willing to compromise. a promise someone makes will be honored. pitch in and help. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep the peace if you want to get anything done today. don’t give in to trivial annoyances or waste time with others’ complaints. do your own thing and steer clear of any interference or arguments. focus on love and personal perfection. 


Birthday Baby: you are proactive, innovative and engaging. you are perceptive, sensitive and persuasive 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
LSU was a mistake for Simmons 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
since its inception in 2006, college basketball’s conten­tious one-and-done rule has consistently and deservedly been criticized. year in and year out, the rule highlights the laughably-conspicuous hypocrisy of an organization that, on the surface, stands for a balanced intersection of academics and athletics, but annually makes a significant portion of money on games headlined by players that have no interest in graduat­ing and are only part of the process because of a one-year obligation. 
The most recognizable ath­lete who became a part of the hypocrisy in this year’s fresh­man class is ben simmons, who has long been the pre­sumed number one overall pick in June’s nba draft. 
as has been extensively analyzed, simmons’ pit stop in college, which concluded with lsu’s blowout loss to Texas a&m over the week­end, was, in many ways, an unmitigated disaster. after choosing to play his one year at lsu, simmons was a part of an underwhelming Tigers team that failed to meet any of the steep postseason ex­pectations it was assigned. while simmons’ personal numbers were undeniably im­pressive, he has persistently been scrutinized for lacking competitiveness and char­acter. additionally, he was suspended late in the season and taken off the prestigious wooden award finalist list due to his inability to main­tain a 2.0 gpa. 
what the simmons disas­ter suggests in the scope of all college basketball is two things: that the ncaa’s one-and-done rule is obviously ri­diculous, and that simmons’ and lsu’s failures could be bad for parity in the sport in the future. 
The first point is almost not worth arguing because it would be naïve to think the one-and-done rule will be abolished anytime soon, even though this year’s tournament, which will fea­ture more senior stars than in recent history, might be the optimum backdrop for contending that the ncaa could survive losing the en­tertainment and skill of its one-and-done players. many fans of the sport that recog­nize its hypocrisy are likely to never universally support a rule change if only because of their desire to not watch the sport lose several entertain­ing players. 
with regard to parity in the sport, it would not be surpris­ing if the disastrous season of simmons and lsu influences the college choices of one-and-done players in future re­cruiting classes. in choosing lsu, simmons strayed from the norm of most top recruits that annually choose to play for blue-blood programs like duke, Kansas, north carolina and Kentucky. 
prospective recruits look­ing at simmons’ experience at lsu will undeniably have a hard time identifying ben­efits of deviating from past patterns in their college deci­sion processes. in addition to the fact that simmons will be sitting on his couch during the entirety of the upcom­ing ncaa tournament, many scouts have said his weak­nesses remain the same after a year of being coached by lsu coach Johnny Jones, who is far less esteemed when it comes to developing play­ers than the highly-regarded mainstay coaches in the sport. 
it is worth noting that simmons’ unique college choice was heavily impacted by the fact that his godfather was an assistant coach for lsu. still, it is certainly fore­seeable that his success as a one-and-done player at a non­traditional basketball school could have impacted the vari­ance of the college decisions of top recruits in future years and, in turn, the overall pari­ty of college basketball. while this parity has been prevalent to unprecedented levels in this year’s regular season, it may not actually be visible in the number of teams winning championships in the coming years. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC LACROSSE 

belles pick up first  win in hilton head 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 

saint mary’s had a busy and successful spring break trip to hilton head, south carolina, this past week, picking up its first win of the year against elms. 
The belles (1-2) also tallied two losses during the week, falling to both shenandoah and bryn mawr. 
belles head coach amy long stated before the hilton head trip that her goal was for the team to return home with at least one win from their three games. This is a goal that the belles were able to achieve in their 15-8 victory over the blazers (1-2), which was their second of the trip’s three games. saint mary’s fell to the hornets (2-5) by a score of 13-5 in its first game of the season and lost a tight contest, 11-10, to the owls (2-0). despite the losses, long said she feels that the trip was a very good one. 
“our trip was a great success, not because we earned a win, but because we improved greatly throughout the week,” long said. “The coaching staff observed nu­merous improvements across the field from the first game to our fi­nal game in hilton head. 
“obviously, we would have liked to finish the job in the bryn mawr game and earn a second win, but we learned a lot about playing in a very close game and the adjustments we need to make for our next one-goal or overtime game. losing a hard fought game by a single goal was difficult, but i expect the lessons learned from this experience to only help us as we prepare for our conference play in april.” 
The belles’ offense lived up to long’s high expectations, she said, with numerous play­ers stepping up throughout the three-day trip. in the belles’ lone win, five different players scored goals. freshman midfielder Kate Kelly had an especially strong start to her collegiate career, scoring five goals against elms, and scoring in each of the belles’ other games. long said she was particularly pleased with her of­fense’s ability to work together. 
“our team worked well to­gether throughout the course of the trip,” long said. “our team cohesiveness, both on and off the field, is a strength for us and something that developed even more over the course of our trip. our offense did a great job work­ing as a unit and all contributing to create openings for themselves and their teammates. we had 10 different players produce a goal or assist during our three-game trip.” 
looking forward, long said she believes a key to earning more wins will be working on transitions, shot placement and cleaning up some basics, such as ground-ball pickups. according to long, putting in this effort is what the season is going to re­volve around as it moves forward. 
“we have more than hope for a great season,” long said. “our team motto this year is ‘mental Toughness, extra effort,’ and we know by staying mentally tough and putting extra effort into ev­erything we do, we will have our best season yet. it is not a hope, it is an expectation for this year.” 
in its next game, saint mary’s will head to concordia-chicago, a team in its first season. while this can be difficult to prepare for, long said she has made sure her team is as informed as pos­sible on its opponents. 
“i have been able to scout their team through our video exchange and will provide our team with a few key points from what i saw,” long said. “we will prepare for this game, like any other game, by focusing on what we can control, which is how we play. i expect us to come out and play hard each minute of the game, which can only lead to a great result.” 
The belles will take on the cougars on wednesday at 6 p.m. at concordia stadium. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
SWIMMING & DIVING 

Three divers qualify for ncaa championships 
Observer Staff Report 

notre dame competed in the Zone c ncaa qualifier meet in west lafayette, indiana, this past week and saw three divers from the women’s squad qualify for the ncaa championships. 
both the men and women entered competitors in the one-meter, three-meter and platform events. in each event, the top 18 finishers in the preliminary round advanced to the finals, with their scores carrying over, and had the opportunity to qual­ify for the ncaa championships, which will be held in atlanta this weekend and next. 
on Thursday, the women’s one-meter and men’s three-meter events were held. The women’s side put forth a strong showing, with seniors lindsey streepey and emma gaboury earning automatic bids to compete in the event at the ncaa cham­pionships, finishing sixth and seventh, respectively. although gaboury sat just outside quali­fication in 13th place after the preliminary round, both she and streepey had improved to be within the automatic qualify­ing placements by the end of the round, as streepey’s final dives improved her placement from eighth to sixth. gaboury surged from 13th to seventh place with her final dives. for the men’s team, junior James lichtenstein just missed out on advancing into the finals in the men’s three-me­ter competition, finishing 19th. 
The next day, the women’s squad made program history by qualifying a third diver for the ncaa championships. gaboury and sophomore annie crea both earned automatic bids in the three-meter competition. following the morning prelimi­nary round where she placed eighth, gaboury improved to fourth place in the afternoon final round, while crea, who was 17th after the morning, capped off the day with an impressive showing, jumping to sixth place to earn her spot in the championships. 
The meet concluded saturday, with both teams competing in the platform event. on the men’s side, lichtenstein broke the school record in the event. as the only entrant for the irish, lichtenstein stood in ninth place after the preliminary round with a score of 305.90 and advanced to the finals, where he stayed in ninth place but improved his overall score to a total of 603.05. both dives surpassed nick nemetz’s previous school re­cord tally of 294.25, scored at the 2014 iowa hawkeye invitational meet. however, lichtenstein just missed the automatic qualify­ing mark, as only the top eight finishers advanced to the ncaa championships. on the women’s side, crea and gaboury failed to advance to the finals by placing 19th and 20th, respectively, while streepey advanced to the finals but did not qualify for the cham­pionship in the event, due to her 13th-place finish. 
crea, gaboury and streepey will compete in the ncaa championships starting on Thursday at the georgia Tech campus recreation center. 
paid adverTisemenT 






W Lax 
conTinued from page 16 
however, after a scoreless first overtime period, it was the cardinals who scored the win­ning goal just nine seconds into the second overtime ses­sion, as senior midfielder Kaylin morissette, who dominated the irish on the draw by notching up nine draw controls, assisted se­nior midfielder Kelli gerding to end the game. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny said she believes her team learned from their first de­feat of the season. 
“credit to the team, i think we learned a lot from the loss,” halfpenny said. “we didn’t re­ally belabor it at all. we were able to look at it and say that we played a really good team in louisville, we battled, and we found a way to give ourselves extra time, and at the end of the day, this is lacrosse, and louisville made the final play of the game and we just missed. 
“so we really turned around quickly to getting back to do­ing what we do. and quite hon­estly, i think we can say we were grateful for that louisville game. maybe not for the loss, but for getting our offense mov­ing again. it got us moving a little bit instead of falling into a trap against a sagged pressure defense that continues to switch off of our players. we recognized that we didn’t have to adjust what we were doing, we just had to keep doing what we’re doing.” 
The irish followed the defeat 

paid adverTisemenT 
with two games in two days in virginia. on march 8, the irish were led by junior attack grace muller, as her four goals off the bench pushed the irish to a 19­10 victory over virginia Tech. The irish pulled away in the second half, turning a 7-5 lead at the break into a convincing victory. 
halfpenny’s squad had no difficulty playing liberty the very next day, as the irish tied a school record for goals scored in a single game with a command­ing 25-2 victory that also marked the 200th win in the history of the program. graduate student defender barbara sullivan had a strong performance, causing five turnovers to break the notre dame career record of 122. halfpenny said sullivan’s ability to generate turnovers in a game where notre dame controlled possession was a testament to her ability. 
“we controlled the ball a lot, but when liberty tried to get on that break, she had five caused turnovers,” halfpenny said. “and there were some [one-on­one] chances that she took. i think it’s just barbara, her feel­ing confident enough with the group behind her, the offense controlling the ball and the depth that we play with that al­lows her to play with this free style and get all these caused turnovers.” 
following the road trip to virginia, the irish returned home sunday to face no. 7 princeton. The irish built up a 6-3 lead, but the Tigers began to fight their way back into the 
M Golf 
conTinued from page 16 
par in the rain-shortened tournament. 
Kubinski said the irish’s im­provement could be attributed to multiple factors. 
“our improvement from auburn to Texas was probably a combination of things, the largest of which were being able to continue right on through playing and the turf conditions in Texas being much more play­able,” Kubinski said. 
rushton and albin tied at 14th place individually at three-under par, once again lead­ing the way for notre dame. Kubinski said he was particular impressed with albin’s play. 
“ben’s play has been very, very solid this semester,” Kubinski said. “his confidence keeps growing with each event. most impressive to me is his ability to self evaluate, always looking for ways to improve, in a positive way. his efforts will definitely motivate his game with two quick goals with just over seven minutes left in the half. however, two irish goals before halftime and four afterwards set the teams apart. although princeton would close back in, the notre dame was still able to hold on for the win, 16-11. 
halfpenny said her team’s run on either side of halftime decid­ed the game. 
“winning by a total of five, that 6-0 run was critical,” halfpenny said. “again, that came down to some great draw work from barbara and [junior midfielder] casey pearsall. That combo, one-two punch is huge. i’m really proud of their efforts, just battling for those ground balls.” 
sullivan followed her perfor­mance against liberty by tying a school record, which she had tied earlier in the season against stanford, with seven caused turnovers. sullivan said the unit around her helps her play a more aggressive style of defense. 
“i think it’s credit to our en­tire defensive unit,” sullivan said. “They let me take some of those risks that i wouldn’t be able to take if i didn’t know that every single defender behind me would have my back if i missed. so that confidence and the belief in what’s behind me leads me to be able to go for those checks.” 
notre dame will next be in action saturday at 2 p.m., when virginia comes to arlotta stadium. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
classmates to push forward with scores, just as [freshman] miguel [delgado] pushed ben last semester.” 
The irish hope to carry over their momentum from the border olympics as they head to their next tournament — the clemson invitational — at The cliffs at Keowee falls course in salem, south carolina on april 1 - 3. 
Kubinski said his team will look to continue to build on their previous performances in south carolina. 
“clemson’s tournament will offer us an opportunity to build on that 283 in Texas,” Kubinski said. “The goal will be to get four, and then five, competitive scores each round, building on the one, two or three we’d see earlier in the season. with our juniors now providing sound leadership and our freshmen understanding what it takes, our upside is very high moving forward.” 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SOFTBALL 

Irish extend winning streak to 17 games 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 19 notre dame contin­ued to roll over spring break, winning all nine contests to extend its winning streak to 17 games. 
at the florida gulf coast spring break classic on march 5 and 6, the irish (21­3, 3-0 acc) tallied four wins for a weekend sweep. on the first day of the invitational, the irish squeaked by stony brook, 4-3, before comfort­ably defeating florida gulf coast, 6-1. in the game against the seawolves (5-11), the irish trailed for most of the game, but a three-run seventh inning helped notre dame stave off the upset attempt. 
The next day, notre dame outscored its opponents by a combined score of 14-1 en route to a victory over ball state and a second win against stony brook. freshman second baseman ali wester had five hits and scored four runs on the day to lead the irish. in addition to several other strong offensive performances, senior allie rhodes and junior rachel nasland turned in solid games on the mound. rhodes pitched six shutout innings against the seawolves and gave up only two hits, while nasland tallied six strikeouts against the cardinals (12-14) in six innings pitched. 
Three days later, on march 9, the team traveled to miami to take on florida international in a pair of games. The irish emerged victorious against the panthers (17-10, 3-0 conference usa) in the first game by a score of 17-8. senior 

ROWING | oaK ridge inviTaTional 
nd collects four first place finishes 
performance, as they picked
Observer Staff Report 
up two more wins with their 
no. 17 notre dame won 3rd varsity eight and 3rd varsi­four races and finished as the ty four and added another four runner-up 10 times over the runner-up finishes. course of 17 races at the oak The 3rd varsity eight team ridge invitational this past — consisting of seniors megan weekend. mcKeon and mairead dunne, 
The regatta was hosted junior Kate Trankina, sopho­by no. 20 louisville in oak mores stephanie dubois, ridge, Tennessee, at melton lauren matchett and lauren lake rowing venue, and fea-mcKee, freshmen Katie tured some of the nation’s wiedenhoft and niijor may and top programs, including the junior coxswain erin coscia — cardinals, no. 4 virginia and defeated Kansas head to head no. 11 michigan. with a time of 7:07.64. 
notre dame jumped out to in the 3rd varsity four race, a strong start, picking up two notre dame again topped wins and two runner-up fin-the Jayhawks, as the team of ishes in the morning session of sophomore lauren saunee, the first day. The irish earned freshmen molly pierce, the two wins over louisville, evelyn mcmanus and Kelly minnesota and west virginia fischer and junior coxswain with their 2nd varsity eight samantha hedrick finished and 3rd varsity four boats. in their race in 7:49.89, lower-the afternoon session, notre ing their time from saturday dame competed against morning’s session. virginia, Kansas and michigan notre dame now has two state and picked up four sec-weeks of training ahead of it ond-place finishes in its five before heading off to Town races. lake, Texas, for the longhorn 
day two of the regatta saw invitational on march 25 and the irish put forth a similar 26. 
catcher casey africano led the irish with four rbis in the game, but the whole team was involved in the scoring as wester added three rbis and freshman third baseman melissa rochford drove in another four. 
notre dame’s bats were not as active in the second game against florida international, but the irish rode wester’s four-hit performance to a 6-3 win. 
The irish finished their road trip with a three-game series against virginia in charlottesville, virginia, this past weekend. notre dame took the first game, 9-2, with a scoreline dominated by rhodes’ seven-inning, one-run performance. with two wins over the cavaliers (8-18, 0-3 acc) this past weekend, rhodes improved to 10-2 on the season. 
The team built off its early momentum in the second game, as rochford launched a two-run homer in the top of the first inning to give notre dame a 2-0 lead from the get-go. The cavaliers did not give up, and a two-run home run in the bottom of the sixth inning brought virginia to within one run at 4-3. The irish put the game away in the seventh inning, however, with sophomore shortstop morgan reed knocking in se­nior first baseman micaela arizmendi on an rbi double, as the irish went on to win, 7-3. 
Then on sunday, the irish closed out their series against the cavaliers with a com­manding 16-3 win. The 16­run output represented their second largest of the season and allowed the irish to ex­tend their winning streak to 17 games. 
To complement rhodes’ strong pitching over the break, rochford was award­ed acc player of the week on monday. during notre dame’s five wins over florida international and virginia, rochford had at least one hit in each contest and boasted a batting average of .444 to go along with a team-high 10 rbis. 
rochford and junior co-captain Karley wester are the only notre dame play­ers to have won the award as freshmen. 
The irish will put their win­ning streak on the line when they play their home opener against bowling green on Thursday at 5 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
“our goal [wednesday] is to play, basically, as well as we can play,” aoki said. “That’s the only thing that i’m going to get myself concerned with.” 
The irish and rockets are set to get underway at 6:05 
p.m. wednesday at frank eck stadium. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
most consistent bat,” aoki said. “ … Zak has really matured a lot as a hitter and understanding his swing and understanding the things that he needs to do to be successful. 
“ … i think [guenther’s] done a really good job making that tran­sition from the bullpen to starter. i think he just has to continue to rely on his preparation and con­tinue to just compete pitch by pitch and try to execute the very best pitches that he can.” 
aoki said senior left hander michael herne will take the mound when the irish step onto their home turf for the first time this season wednesday against the rockets (2-13-1). hearne has thrown 12 innings this year over two starts and one other appear­ance, but has yet to record a deci­sion this season. 
paid adverTisemenT 
Baseball 
conTinued from page 16 
felt so much better about our club because of the manner in which we competed and the way in which we played down there.” 
although the team walked away from the louisville series winless, the irish received a cou­ple of outstanding performances from senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis and sophomore left hander sean guenther. Kutsulis became the first notre dame player to hit for the cycle since 2000, going 4-for-5 from the plate in the first game friday, while guenther pitched 7 2/3 innings saturday, surrendering just a sin­gle run on six hits. 
“i think Zak, from beginning to end ... has been probably our 




Football 
conTinued from page 16 
contention for the job. 

“we’ve got really three out­standing quarterbacks, and obviously deshone Kizer, malik Zaire are easy names to throw around, but we re­ally like brandon wimbush, as well, and brandon will get an opportunity to compete,” Kelly said. 
notre dame had planned to redshirt wimbush last season before Zaire’s season-end­ing ankle injury sept. 12 at virginia, and while it may still be a possibility for 2016, he’ll compete for the starting job in a battle that might not be truly resolved by the season opener. 
“if we had a tape recorder on our meeting, it would be a con­sensus that we’d love to be able to come out of the spring with a no. 1 quarterback,” Kelly said. “but we know that the nature of the guys that we have here and the guys that are compet­ing are probably not going to let that happen. 
“ … we don’t see it happen­ing that way. we’ve got a feeling that this thing is going to be so closely contested that it’s going to take us some time to figure out, if we ever get to that, that we clearly have a no. 1.” 
Kelly said Zaire, who opened last year at the starter, is fully cleared for practice. 
“no [limitations], none,” Kelly said. “it’s been full for him. he’s been — his numbers were really good, too. i mean, even with the ankle, he didn’t back off from any of the testing. we gave him an opportunity not to do some of the testing, and he didn’t want anything to do with that.” 
Other competitions 
Quarterback is far from the only position Kelly said he expects to see battles during spring practice, though, with the irish looking to replace seven offensive and six defen­sive starters ahead of the 2016 season. 
The most glaring openings might be at linebacker, where captains Jaylon smith and Joe schmidt held down starting spots last season. Kelly said junior nyles morgan, a highly-rated recruit who sat behind schmidt on the depth chart the last two seasons, enters the spring as the favorite for the middle linebacker job. 
“i think really for nyles, for him, i think it’s going to be a great spring,” Kelly said. “he’s got nobody in front of him, and i think that’s going to help him dramatically. There’s no Joe schmidt in front of him, and as much as we loved having Joe schmidt here and as much as we’ll miss him, it’s going to help nyles not to have Joe schmidt here because now he can just go and play and not have a wall in front of him.” 
Kelly said sophomore Josh barajas, who redshirted the 2015 season, figures to be a player at either open spot, while sophomore asmar bilal is also in the conversation at linebacker. freshman defen­sive lineman daelin hayes, one of five early enrollees, might be cross-trained at outside line­backer, he added. 
The cornerback battle be­tween senior cole luke, junior nick watkins and sophomore shaun crawford was one that interested Kelly, as well as the competition for slots on the offensive line, where senior hunter bivin, junior alex bars, junior sam mustipher and sophomore Tristen hoge figure to compete for three open slots. 
Injury updates 
senior running back Tarean folston, who missed nearly the entire 2015 season with a torn acl, isn’t yet cleared for full practices yet but is getting workouts in, Kelly said. 
“he’s doing everything with us,” Kelly said. “he’s [partially cleared], but he had surgery done on [sept. 5]. he’s healed, it’s strength and it’s really vol­ume for him, but he’s in all of our drill work. i suspect that he’ll do quite a bit with us.” 
folston and Zaire highlight­ed Kelly’s long list of injury up­dates Tuesday. other notables included two linebackers — ju­nior greer martini and sopho­more Te’von coney — who will miss spring practice, as well as hayes and senior cornerback devin butler, who will be lim­ited during spring. 
bars, who started twice on the offensive line last season, is partially cleared but nearing a return to full practice, accord­ing to Kelly, while sophomore receiver equanimeous st. brown is fully cleared. 
Contact Alex Carson at        acarson1@nd.edu 








FOOTBALL 
Kelly opens up quarterback competition 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
when notre dame opened spring practice wednesday, most expected the quarter­back battle would dominate the headlines until the sea­son opener at Texas on sept. 3. 
“if there is one kind of underlying fact about this spring, all eyes would be on the quarterback posi­tion,” irish head coach brian Kelly said. “i think that’s an understatement.” 
but while most thought Kelly would be considering two quarterbacks for the starting role, he put an end to that thought at his first press conference of the year Tuesday: notre dame’s com­petition will feature three players, with sophomore brandon wimbush joining senior malik Zaire and ju­nior deshone Kizer in 
see fooTball PAGE 15 

BASEBALL 

Kutsulis hits for cycle in louisville 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame opens its home slate wednesday evening against Toledo, looking to crawl back into the win col­umn after being swept by no. 4 louisville on the road last weekend. 
The irish (6-8, 0-3 acc) hung right with the cardinals (14-2, 3-0 acc) in the first and last matchups in the three-game series to conclude spring break. notre dame lost the first game of friday’s doubleheader, 4-3, on a walk-off home run by louisville in the bottom of the 11th inning and then fell 1-0 in saturday’s series finale. Those results sandwiched an 8-2 loss in the second game friday. 
The irish split its four games at the usa baseball-irish classic over the first weekend of spring break, which irish head coach mik aoki called a “little bit of a disappoint­ment.” aoki noted his squad finished the classic on a high note though, as freshman right hander matt vierling hit a walk-off homer in the bot­tom of the 10th inning to beat niagara, 6-5. vierling, the designated hitter for the irish the first nine innings, took to the mound in the 10th and didn’t allow a hit while allow­ing one walk. 
despite ending the classic with the win, aoki said he was apprehensive entering the louisville series. 
“all week long, i was con­cerned and worrying about our team and where we were at, even though we had fin­ished on such a high note, and it was just the way we were playing,” aoki said. “i thought we looked a little un­inspired and there was some­thing missing. Then you go to louisville and lose three diffi­cult games … to open the acc at 0-3, which is always a tough way, but this week, i think i’ve 
see baseball PAGE 14 
MEN’S GOLF | Tiger inviTaTional, border olympics 
rushton shines over spring break 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 
notre dame competed in two tournaments over spring break, the Tiger invitational at the grand national lake course in opelika, alabama, from march 6 - 8 and the border olympics at the laredo country club in laredo, Texas, on march 11 and 12. 
in the Tiger invitational, the irish finished 15th in a field of 18 teams. however, the team had a strong per­formance from junior cap­tain matthew rushton, who finished in 11th place indi­vidually with score of one-over par. freshman ben albin also finished in the top half of the field, earning a tie for 38th place with a score of nine-over par. 
irish head coach Jim Kubinski said rushton’s big weekend was important for both his and the team’s con­tinued development. 
“matt has stepped up both through his play on the course and off the course with his mentoring of our younger players,” Kubinski said. “his impact is an im­portant part of our team’s growth.” 
while a 15th-place fin­ish was not the goal for the irish, Kubinski said a pos­sible explanation for the team’s higher scores could be the playing conditions in the south. 
“one of the things our players have traditionally been challenged by is the thin, often muddy, dormant bermuda grass, which is common around the greens this time of year in the southeast, that we encoun­tered at auburn,” Kubinski said. “it’s an area to work on for most every player, es­pecially those who grew up playing on more northern grasses. our players do typi­cally improve in this area.” 
at the border olympics this past weekend, the irish rebounded with a top-10 fin­ish in another 18-team field and a final score of three-over 
see m golf PAGE 13 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE | ul 10, nd 9 (2oT); nd 19,vT 10; nd 25, liberTy 2; nd 16, princeTon 11 
Irish suffer first defeat of the year against Cardinals 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 5 notre dame suffered its first loss of the season over the break but was able to bounce back with three straight wins. 
The irish (8-1, 2-1 acc) opened the break ranked fourth in the nation and traveled to no. 6 louisville. The irish struck first with two early goals. although the cardinals (7-1, 2-1) quickly tied up the score, notre dame again looked to have the edge, taking a 5-2 lead halfway through the first half. 
louisville closed that gap as the game went on, howev­er, before taking the lead for the first time when junior at­tack hannah Koloski scored her fourth goal of the game with just over three minutes remaining. The irish sent the game into overtime follow­ing a goal by senior attack rachel sexton with just over a minute left in the game. 
see w laX PAGE 13 





