The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 85 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Aslan explores religious identites, extremism 
Renowned scholar analyzes the relationship between ideology, Islam and ISIS 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
according to reza aslan, more than 49 percent of american’s are scared of becoming a victim of terrorism. 
aslan, an internationally ac­claimed writer and scholar of religions, spoke on campus yes­terday in a lecture titled “islam and isis” hosted by the dean’s Fellows of the college of arts and letters. The lecture, in which aslan tackled the topics of reli­gion and violent extremism, at­tracted to many students that there were more than four filled overflow rooms to accommodate those who would not fit in the Jordan auditorium in mendoza. 
“you are, according to the Fbi statistics, more likely to die from faulty furniture, than to be killed by a terrorist. you are more likely, in this country, to be shot by a toddler than killed by a ter­rorist,” aslan said. “however, we cannot dismiss this fear by call­ing it irrational, we must recog­nize it and we must confront it.” 
according to aslan, one per­cent of americans identify themselves as islamic, while 73 percent of american’s identify as christian. The prominence of a religion in any state makes it easier to dissociate violent acts with religion, he said. 
“we live in a country where, according to the pew Forum on religion and public life, 73 per­cent of [people] consider them­selves christians,” aslan said. “when you live in any kind of society where you are surrounded 
see islam PAGE 3 




NDI announces new Ireland summer program 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
notre dame undergradu­ate students now have the option to take a three-credit creative writing workshop in ireland through a sum­mer program sponsored by both the creative writing program and notre dame international. running from July 17 to aug. 7, stu­dents will spend one week 
see abroad PAGE 5 



professor presents poetry 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
There’s a winged godwit walking along a lake shore on the cover of sr. eva mary hooker’s newly published book of poetry. 
hooker performed a read­ing of “godwit,” which was released this month, in rice commons on Thursday night. 

hooker, a 1963 graduate of the college and faculty member of the english de­partment, spoke about her experiences with the book’s namesake bird. 
“my first encounter with godwits was at crane beach and plum island, both in massachusetts,” hooker said. “my next encounter was in the prairie grasslands of minnesota. godwits with wet feet, godwits making themselves fat for the long flight from minnesota to south america by way of the atlantic coast.” 
hooker said the bird’s name comes from the old english word meaning good creature and that the name itself is also a glorious pun. The godwit is famous today 
see poeTry PAGE 5 


conference promotes women in business 

By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
This weekend, undergraduate women in business (uwib) will be host­ing its 8th annual professional development conference titled “work like a girl! gender in the business world.” The confer­ence will begin Friday at 5:45 
p.m. in Jordan hall of science and concludes saturday afternoon. 
The weekend will consist of networking opportunities and workshops with companies such as Jp morgan, deloitte, p&g, pwc and others. keynote speakers for the conference in­clude nicole sherrod, manag­ing director of ameritrade, and Theresa sedlack, engagement director of innovation park. 
sophomore business major erin callaghan said she is 
see conFerence PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is your favorite Valentine’s Day treat? 

Alaina Anderson 


Kaelyn Fox 
freshman 

freshman 
pangborn hall 

ryan hall 
“dove dark chocolate.” 

“candy hearts.” 
Jeff Graziano 


Thomas Pugliese 
sophomore 

junior 
keough hall 

off campus 
“hershey’s kisses.” 

“sweeTarts.” 
Henry Orlowski-Scherer 
sophomore keough hall 
“sweeTarts.” 


Sarah Cokingtin 
sophomore 
Farley hall 
“heart-shaped box full of heart-shaped candy.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole caratas hunter mcdaniel martha reilly elizabeth greason 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Welsh Family Dance Men’s Basketball vs. La Misa en Espaol Data Breach: Failures “The Collapse of
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 
Fest North Carolina Dillon Hall and Follow-Ups Arthur Andersen” Washington Hall Purcell Pavilion 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Giovanini Commons Giovanini Commons 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. All are welcome to this 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m.
Corrections 

Performances from all The Irish take on the Mass celebrated in Notre Dame Ethics Larry Katzen explores 
The observer regards itself as ND dance clubs. Tar Heels. Spanish. Week speaker. ethics issues. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Give Kids a Smile Edith Stein Project Men’s Tennis vs. Ball Student Recital “Crafting a Strong
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Mahoney Family McKenna Hall State Little Theatre Grant Proposal” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Dentistry All day Eck Tennis Pavilion 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Brownson Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
all day Conference discussing 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Performance by 4 p.m.-5 p.m.
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Free dental care for challenges of faith, The Irish take on the Saint Mary’s Music Learn how to craft a
we can correct our error. 

underserved children. dignity and identity. Cardinals. Department students. compelling application. 


SMC to celebrate Chinese New Year 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
saint mary’s will celebrate the chinese new year and the ad­vent of the year of the monkey with the annual china night in the little Theater on Friday at 3 p.m. 
The chinese new year is con­sidered the most important festival in chinese culture, ac­cording to a post by the college’s director of media relations, gwen o’brien. also known as the spring Festival, the chinese new year celebration recog­nizes the start of a new year for 
Islam 
conTinued From page 1 
by christianity in all its diversity, it becomes very easy to dismiss fringe versions of christianity. 
“it is much easier to disconnect that behavior with the religion of christianity. when we see acts that represent the fringe of islam, as we are not familiar with nor­mative islam, we are unable to dissociate it with the religion.” 
according to aslan, there are two typical responses to islamic extremism; the first is “islam is not like that,” and the second is, “islam is exactly like that.” however, aslan said both these answers are incorrect. 
“i understand the impulse of any community of faith when confronted with extremists to say harvest in china as well as the coming of spring. 
Junior yanxi liu, china night director and co-president of the chinese culture club, said having a china night at saint mary’s allows the campus com­munity to celebrate not only the new year but also the chinese culture. 
“The purpose of china night is to promote the diversity of saint mary’s,” she said. “china night is a great opportunity for saint mary’s students to learn more about china.” 
liu said this year’s china night will feature traditional songs, instruments, folk danc­es, lottery drawing games and an asian fashion show. The evening will feature perfor­mances by students from saint mary’s, notre dame and other groups from the south bend community. 
saint mary’s center for women’s intercultural leadership’s (cwil’s) assistant director for global education alice siqin yang said the night presents a great learning oppor­tunity for students. 
“The event will help students learn more about chinese lan­guage, culture, music, arts, 

‘that is not us,’” aslan said. “but this is wrong. it is incorrect be­cause a muslim is whoever he or she says is a muslim. Those who act violent in the name of islam — we must take that seriously.” 
aslan emphasized that all reli­gions have violent fringe groups. he credits this to the rise of re­ligious nationalism around the world. according to aslan, the failure of secular nationalism led to this religious nationalism. 
aslan also made a distinction between islamism and Jihadism. he noted that these terms are of­ten used interchangeably, there is a remarkable difference between them. aslan defined islamism, as a type of religious national­ism, that most contained within the borders of a pre-determined state. 
in contrast, he defined 
paid adverTisemenT 

Jihadism is transnational, yet an­ti-national. according to aslan, Jihadists do not want to create an islamic state, Jihadists want to rid the world of states in general, and re-organize the global as a single world order under their control. 
“There is a fundamental mis­understanding of what we mean when we say religious. we get caught in this polarization,” aslan said. “religion, it’s im­portant to recognize, is not just an order of belief and practices. religion, above all us, is a matter of identity. 
“it’s about how you are, how you identify yourself in an inde­terminate world,” aslan said. “it is not a faith statement; it is an identity statement.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
traditions, as well as the op­portunities to study abroad in china,” she said. “it has unique history and culture and has the largest population in the world. understanding chinese culture will help students succeed in the global economy.” 
Junior yaqi song, co-president of the chinese culture club, said she is looking forward to the new addition to the show this year, the asian fashion show. with asian culture and history as its focus, the fash­ion show represents a variety of ethnic groups by including Japanese, south korean and 
Conference 
conTinued From page 1 
excited to attend the confer­ence because of the potential to learn more about and speak with the various companies in attendance. 
“uwib does a great job of providing opportunities for career exploration and net­working,” callaghan said. “The firms that will be in attendance cater to all majors within the business school and many are attractive places to potentially work.” 
on sao’s website, uwib de­scribes its goal as “to build a stronger sense of community among undergraduate women who aspire to business-related professions through events that highlight the many op­portunities that are available to them.” 
Junior and conference co-chair of uwib haley rosenbach says that the keynote speakers represent women who have had contin­ued success in the business world and are strong profes­sional role models for aspiring businesswomen. 
“i’m really excited for nicole sherrod because she’s a really successful woman in the finan­cial industry and does a great job of balancing the home and work life,” rosenbach said. 
rosenbach went further to explain how the keynote speakers embody two women who prove that a successful career and a family life are not mutually exclusive. she said she hopes conference attend­ees leave the conference with the notion that women do not have to choose between career and family. 
“i think that now our Tibetan students in their coun­tries’ traditional clothing. 
liu said she is happy she could celebrate the chinese new year with other international stu­dents and share her culture with the saint mary’s community. 
“my favorite part is that i can organize a show to present my culture to others and so all chinese students can be togeth­er,” liu said. 
a reception featuring a vari­ety of chinese food will follow the performances. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder01@saintmarys.edu 
generation has been raised to do both [family and career] and not question it and i think that this club and the oppor­tunities it provides are a cool, unique way to foster that idea. it doesn’t have to be a choice between the two,” rosenbach said. 
callaghan said she looks for­ward to the more relaxed at­mosphere for networking that the conference will provide. 
“i’m looking forward to the breakout and networking ses­sions that give us an oppor­tunity to meet employers and hear stories about experiences they have had in their profes­sional lives,” callaghan said. “it is a great way to make the environment more relaxed and genuinely get to know people who have taken the time to come to notre dame.” 
rosenbach said the confer­ence will provide a more re­laxed setting for women in business that will hopefully inspire more questions for the keynote speakers and more discussion. 
“since it’s through uwib, it’s only open to women on cam­pus and i think that creates a really cool dynamic at the con­ference,” rosenbach said. “in the business school, the gender ratio is kind of skewed so it cre­ates a really cool unique set­ting where the girls are more comfortable.” 
callaghan said she hopes to walk away inspired by the key­note speakers and better ac­quainted with employers. 
“i’m still discerning my ca­reer path, as we all are, but i believe this event will help me further develop my profession­al goals,” she said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 




Poetry 
conTinued From page 1 
for its long migration, with the bar-tailed godwit making an unbroken 7,257 mile flight from alaska to new Zealand by way of china each year, she said. 
The first section of the book is called “godsalt,” in refer­ence to a metaphor used by cormac mccarthy in his novel “The road,” she said. 
“i want to move that pos­session of salt, which is in the deep of god, into the posses­sion of the soul as what i call inflorescence blooming of the soul,” hooker said. 
a poem titled “solomon’s seal” is named after a protect­ed flower hooker came upon behind riedinger house on saint mary’s campus one day, she said. The white space of the printed poems is used for a variety of purposes and, in this case, is used “to imagine the touch of the spirit,” she said. 
“The middle section [of the book] is called ‘dark is the shadow of me,’ which is a se­quence of poems which ex­plore dark as shadow, a place where soul is a verb, not a noun,” hooker said. “… in the heart of the sequence, soul is a place of danger.” 
The third part of the publi­cation is “There is work to do within nothingness,” she said, and one poem in the section shares that title. 
“at last the day has come when i have a book in my hands that i made,” she said. “carl phillips writes that a lyric poem is always, at some level, a testimony at once for a love of the world we must lose, and to the fact of loss itself — and how in that tension between love and loss that the poem enacts there is a particular resinous that he calls mercy. … 
“… in godwit, that was my being,” she said. “mercy as a kind of respite, a geography of heightened consciousness that is within us, as if bodily shaken.” 
Junior leah alday attended the poetry reading and said she appreciated the references hooker made to outside liter­ary influences. 
“i really enjoyed that she had a lot of hildegard references, because not many people i know talk about her,” alday said. “i learned about her in germany, so hearing about her in sr. eva’s poetry was really beautiful.” 
hooker is also the au­thor of “The winter keeper” and “notes for survival in the wilderness.” her poems have been published in jour­nals such as barrow street, cincinnati review, drunken boat and many others, assistant professor of english series at the college, sponsored and creative writing dionne by the english department. bremyer said. 


The reading was part of the Contact Kathryn Marshall at spring season’s visiting writer kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Abroad 
conTinued From page 1 
in the city of dublin and two weeks at kylemore abbey in connemara, county galway, professor of english valerie sayers said. 
“one thing we want all our students to think about is not just their place in american literature, but also their place in world literature, and where better to start than ireland?” sayers said. 
valerie sayers said the course was the brainchild of barry mccrea, professor 
“One thing we want all our students to think about is not just their place in American literature, but also their place in world literature, and where better to start than Ireland?” 
Valerie Sayers 
professor of English 
of irish studies, english and romance languages, and lisa caulfield, director of the notre dame academic center at kylemore abbey. sayers and Joyelle mcsweeney, director of the creative program with­in the department of english, will teach the course. guest authors alice mcdermott and kevin barry will also partici­pate in the course. 
sayers said she and mcsweeney will collaborate on the classes and teach two separate sections of the class. 
“students in both sections will have the opportunity to work on whatever genre inter­ests them. we know we’ll be doing prose, and a lot of it, be­cause that’s where the major­ity of interest lies,” she said. “we’re also both open to and will create some opportuni­ties for people to think about the overlap between fiction and nonfiction, between prose and poetry, and even, if people are interested, drama, which is the great irish genre. 
“i think we’re both excited to teach that way, too,” sayers said. “in the program here, though we encourage a lot of inter-genre work in the gradu­ate program, just for practical reasons the undergraduate curriculum is set up as prose or poetry. and this is one of these rare opportunities to mix it up.” 
sayers said writers of all levels of experience are in­vited to enroll in the course. The course will fulfill the university and college of arts and letters fine arts require­ment, and for english majors it will count as a standard major elective and will also fulfill one of the four required courses for the creative writing concentration. 
“non-english majors are more than welcome. in fact, they always provide a great contrast and complement to english majors,” she said. “one thing we like about the design of this course is that it is open to all levels. … There’s maybe an initial shyness from people who have never writ­ten before, but it dissipates so quickly when you realize that every time you write, you are a beginner because you are learning how to create a new manuscript. every single time is a beginning time — that is one of the things i’m most ex­cited about.” 


sayers said the dual loca­tions of the course will make for a “richer experience, par­ticularly for students who are going to ireland for the first time and have not had a chance to experience the rest of ireland.” 
For the first week in dublin, sayers said, students will have the chance to absorb the literary traditions of the city, as well as see theatre produc­tions and hear live music. 
“dublin is one of my favor­ite cities in the world, and the literary vibe there is intense and infectious,” she said. “i think by contrast, the time at kylemore, which by its nature will be very contemplative and very meditative, will make for a really rich, full ex­perience, both of writing and of culture.” 

The course will be designed to provide a multitude of stim­uli for students while giving them the opportunity to pur­sue their own projects. both in dublin and at kylemore, sayers said, the course will link “the practice of walking and the kind of opening up of the language centers that walking provides.” 
“we’re going to be do­ing lots of exercises around place, both architectural space and kylemore abbey itself will be a fabulous ar­chitectural space to explore, but absolutely once we’re in connemara, we’ll be think­ing about nature,” she said. “we’re still working on course texts and things like that, but we’re trying to include some writing that thinks about both nature and ecology, and our moment in climate time.” 
sayers said the program is designed for accommodate 20 notre dame students and 10 irish university students. 
“because this is the first year, those would be ideal target numbers for the life of the program, but it’s entirely likely that we’ll be a smaller group going over the first time,” she said. 
more information regard­ing the course and the poten­tial to apply for financial aid will be available to students at an information session wednesday at 11 a.m. in 320 malloy hall. applications for the course are due Feb. 26. 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 



On dating violence 
Nicole Caratas 
news writer 

February is national Teen dating violence awareness month. organizations such as the ywca go to schools and talk to students about healthy and unhealthy re­lationships. Though some people overlook teen relationships as being illegitimate or even laughable, the truth is middle school and high school students have serious rela­tionships that can go seriously wrong. and i’m really happy for all the kids who will get to hear these presentations and maybe help themselves before their relationships become unsafe. 
i wish someone had taken my middle school relationship serious. i was 13 when i started dating my first real boyfriend. we were together for almost a year, and hon­estly i have no idea how i made it. he was my best guy friend, so i thought everything would be safe. 
but then i stopped wanting to cooperate with whatever he wanted to do. at first, it was small things. he would want to hold hands during class, and i thought that was inappropriate. he would want to make out for the entirety of iron man 2; i wanted to watch. and then he started getting mad. he would claim i didn’t actually care about him, or say that he has no one but me and even i don’t really love him. we would fight constantly. if i didn’t text him right away, he would send text after text making sure i wasn’t ignoring him. when i went to visit an old friend and didn’t answer my phone for a couple of hours, he accused me of cheating, saying i would have answered him otherwise. he had to know where i was at all times. 
The more i pushed back, the scarier it got. i was scared to break up with him because whenever the fights got particu­larly bad, he would threaten to cut himself. sometimes, he would even say he would kill himself without me. he never outright hit me, but he was definitely more forceful than anyone should be with a significant other. at this point, i was still only 14 and i was in way over my head. i had no idea how to handle this, and i was so scared something would happen and it would be all my fault. 
i didn’t realize this was an unhealthy relationship until years later. i never told anyone, but i wish i had someone at school tell me what constituted an unhealthy re­lationship. i wish someone told me i didn’t deserve this, that if i would wait five years, i would find someone who would accept me through all my relationship anxiety and would genuinely care about my well-being. 
This is an important month. Teenagers need to realize unhealthy relationships are not their fault. They are not responsible for anything the abuser does, and they can and should get out. They should know they are worth more. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
April Feng 
story Time 

rebecca: mom makes the best sweet osmanthus flowers sauce for our annual spring Festival feast. 
april: rebecca and i would put on our nicest clothes and follow my mom all the way to the supermarket to select the best osman­thus flowers. 
rebecca: mom thoroughly washed the bright yellow osmanthus flowers, picked a bright sunny day to dry them on the windowsill till the flowers turned lively orange. she then covered them with sugar until she could barely cover the light blue glass pot. The pick­led flowers would sleep in the pot for a week, no more, no less. 
april: every time i was tempted to steal some sweet sauce from the pot, my mom’s warning would echo in my head: “never open the pot before the sauce is ready.” The outside air will destroy the flavor. we must allow the flowers to finish their transformation. it was always the most magical time of the year, waiting for some­thing sweet. 
rebecca: The dish reminds me of spring, of the grieving heart as the season changes and of course, of my distant childhood and the innocent happiness. That was how we spent every new year’s eve when i was small — tens of dishes like this, each prepared with dedication, patience, love and proud traditions. There is not just taste, but weight to the dinner, as if i was eating not only the food but time itself. 
april: i was 12. my great-aunt Tu, the oldest member of our fam­ily, passed away. 
rebecca: i was 12, the age of rebellion, of apathy, of rejection, of jealousy. 
april: it was the first spring Festival that we spent without her. we left her seat empty, the one at the end of the table. her master dish, brown-sauce stewed carp, was absent too. 
rebecca: For the first time, the ceremony of an entire family sit­ting together and having a meal seemed fake to me. 
april: The feast began. grandpa took the first bite. “it seems i am the oldest person in the family now,” he said with a forced smile. “recently, i started to feel i am getting old rapidly, and i am so grateful we can still sit here as a family. anyway, this is delicious!” he took another bite of the chinese cabbage. suddenly, i felt the strong urge to say something. 
rebecca: “i heard,” april rolled her eyes before she continued, an obnoxious habit she recently acquired. “people whose first bite is a vegetable dish will have good health in the following year; people who have meat first will earn a good fortune.” 
april: For the first time, i felt i embodied this great tradition. 
after great-aunt passed away, the spring Festival was never the same. my grandparents were rapidly getting old. all of a sudden, grandpa could not eat anything too oily because his blood pres­sure was above normal. grandma could not make the perfect dumpling stuffings anymore, because she was losing her sense of taste and could not tell if the stuffing was salty enough. Finally, there was just mom, dad, rebecca and me sitting around the table on new year’s eve. 
rebecca: after eating for four hours, it was almost midnight and i was tired. 
april: it was time to eat dumplings, or jiaozi, meaning when the new meets the old. people should eat eight dumplings, for eight is the lucky number in chinese culture. i was full after the sixth one, but my mom whispered to me and rebecca, “Two more and you will have a good year!” i knew that was my mom’s way of wishing me well. it carried all her good intentions. 
rebecca: why do i have to keep eating when i am already full? i looked at april. she was stuffing dumplings into her mouth, one by one, each handmade by my grandpa. 
april: i saw my mom smiling. That was my way of letting her know i understood and loved her. Then i heard rebecca complaining. 
rebecca: “mom let’s go see the fireworks outside. i am full.” 
“Finish your dumplings first.” 
“help me!” i mouthed to april. she walked away. 
april: The great spring Festival had already lost most of its color, and here she was, giving up the tradition, the values, the love that nurtured her for 15 years. 
rebecca: and there came the look i would never forget — a com­bination of disbelief, anger, shame, aggression and, the worst of all, pity. For many years i have been wondering what she was pitying me for at that time. 
april: i still could not articulate my feelings at that time. i just felt she lost something precious, something deep in the bones, some­thing that had been running in our blood before we were even born. i … i felt sorry for her. 
rebecca: she was pitying not my courage, but my lack of cour­age, to stick with a value that i was brought up in. after all, giving up is always easier than holding on. 
The last day before april and i left china, the entire family had a huge dinner. 
dad cooked braised prawns in red sauce, because red stood for happiness and luck. grandma cooked green chili pepper fish, because the pronunciation of “fish” in chinese is “yu” and it has the same sound with the word “more.” mom revealed to us her discovery many years ago: when april and i first learned to use chopsticks, we held the chopsticks on the far end. according to chinese traditions, the further down a child holds the chopsticks, the farther from home she will go. 
april: “The entire family sitting around the dinner table” is the simplest wish of many chinese, but on that night, i was not sure when i could realize that wish again. when will be the next time i sit down for dinner with my family? will i change? 
rebecca: grandpa was in the kitchen, making his favorite dish 
— sweet potato with caramelized sugar dressing. it is a dish he has perfected over the years and one he has gladly brought out for every family gathering. 
april: i heard rebecca asking grandpa to teach her how to make the dish. 
rebecca: i went into the kitchen. grandpa’s back was bent by time. his shaking hand held the spatula trying to see whether the sugar was ready. 
“grandpa, i want to learn to cook this so when i celebrate spring Festival in america, it can bring home to me.” 
he smiled. “watch me then.” 
“can you write down the recipe for me?” 
“you learn it by heart, dear yuan. you do not remember, you feel.” 
april: maybe next spring Festival, we two can still sit down for dinner on a smaller table. at least we two can be together, feeling home and living the traditions. 
rebecca: it is the smell, the taste, the stories behind the dish that keep reminding me of traditions, of root, of values. These things exist inside me and my body, my soul, my whole being are their guardians. 
april: next monday is my 20th spring Festival, and this time, even rebecca and i are apart. on sunday night, new year’s eve, i have work until 10 p.m. i tried to convince myself, yogurt and apple, how healthy, how delicious, but i failed. sweet osmanthus flowers sauce, pork and leek dumplings. am i giving up the tradi­tions? i called rebecca. 
“hey, ever thought about how you are celebrating spring Festival this year?” 
rebecca: “eh, i think i will cook for myself. maybe that sweet potato thing grandpa taught me, and then sweet osmanthus flow­ers sauce. you?” 
april: “yogurt and apple.” 
rebecca: ridiculous. “but april, it is spring Festival.” 
april: “yes, but the reality is …” 
rebecca: “are you escaping from something?” 
april: “escaping? what is there to escape from? There is nothing there. no traditions without you guys around. no family dinner, no people …” 
rebecca: “Feng dan! if we don’t carry on these traditions, who will?” 
april: i was ashamed. 
rebecca: i was scared. 
april: but i work until 10. 
rebecca: she works until 10, so what? carrying on a tradition always takes time. 
april: but i am alone, away from home. 
rebecca: Tradition gives us a home. 
april: i ran out of excuses. 
rebecca: and so, we will celebrate spring Festival alone, in two 
foreign countries where we have happily named ourselves april and rebecca instead of dan and yuan. when tradition is celebrat­ed, we are accompanied, deep inside. 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior double-majoring in political science and economics. April was born and raised in Beijing and is currently studying “abroad” in Washington D.C., taking classes and interning with CBS News. April welcomes all comments and complaints at dfeng@nd.edu 
This column was co-written by April’s twin sister, Rebecca Yuan Feng. She can be reached at yfeng2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Across campus and country, your vote counts 

EDITORIAL 

The nation turned its political attention to iowa on monday night as more than eight months of campaign­ing, debates and media frenzy yielded to the actual act of voting. The iowa caucuses were only the beginning of the next chapter of the already historic and exciting 2016 presidential campaign, and the rest will be written by those who show up to vote. 
after results that showed promise for candidates like sen. Ted cruz of Texas and sen. bernie sanders of vermont and discouraging results that forced four can­didates to end their presidential bids, the remaining candidates move on to new hampshire, where Tuesday’s primary will help further set the direction of the race moving forward. regardless of where the election goes from here, though, one thing is certain: it will be exciting. as college students, we have only been able to vote in one presidential election so far, and the sometimes circus-like environment of the 2016 campaign seems to have energized americans of all ages. 
and while it is good to have plenty of energy going into election season, it is important to capitalize on that en­ergy and actually participate in both local and national elections. political pundits often speak of “the youth vote” and its potential power, but the fact remains that young people and college students vote at significantly lower rates than older age groups. according to statistics from the center for information and research on civic learning and engagement at Tufts university, only 19.9 percent of voters age 18-29 voted in the 2014 midterm elections, the lowest youth turnout rate ever recorded in a federal election. in the 2012 presidential election, the youth voter turnout rate was 45 percent, a six-point decrease from the 2008 election and 15 points lower than any other age group in 2012. 
here on campus, though, the center for social concerns and the rooney center for the study of american democracy created the “ndvotes ‘16” initia­tive in order to promote democratic participation for all students. This initiative makes it easier for students to keep up with the election process by providing means to acquire absentee ballots, supporting voter registration and sending reminders to vote. last semester, ndvotes wrote a letter to the editor identifying its goal as making “political participation both exciting and accessible to all students — regardless of their religious affiliation, aca­demic interests or personal background.” other campus political clubs, including college democrats and college republicans, also offer bountiful opportunities to par­ticipate in the 2016 presidential campaign on a number of levels. 
closer to home than the national elections that domi­nate the news, voting in the upcoming student govern­ment elections allows us as students to choose who will work behind the scenes to make changes that impact our campus life. notre dame votes for student govern­ment president and vice president wednesday, and saint mary’s votes for student body president and vice president Feb. 25. student government may sometimes feel distant from the student body, but we as students are ultimately the ones able to take control and help set the direction of the university and the college. short-term experiments such as Trayless Thursdays and long-term strategies such as sexual assault prevention programs demonstrate how student leadership can direct resources to pinpoint and focus on specific issues on our campuses. 
student government is one of only a few student or­ganizations with the power to influence every facet of student life. it is crucial we participate in this election as informed voters. visit the candidates’ websites, learn about their platforms, ask how they will shape your notre dame or saint mary’s experience the following year and attend monday night’s debate in the laFortune base­ment. voter participation should extend well beyond checking a box. 
educating yourself is a responsibility that extends be­yond college too. Follow candidates in your home state and participate in local elections. seek out thorough and accurate news that cuts through the horse race of the na­tional election. effecting change on any level — on a col­lege campus or across an entire country — is a slow and painstaking process, but it begins with your vote. voting participation should not be a one-time commitment but a regular and established part of your civic life. 
The impact of a single vote can drive change at any level, from student government elections to primaries to presidential ballots. so, this election season, be informed, be active and above all, go vote. 
Why income inequality matters 
Liam O’Connor 
guest column 

one american’s economic gains over time do not neces­sitate another’s losses. imagine the american economy is a pie cut into three unequal slices — for the “top 20” percent of income-earning households, the “middle 60,” and the “bot­tom 20.” in 1979, the bottom slice was 6.2 percent of the pie, the middle was 49.0 percent, and the top was 44.9 percent. but by 2011, the bottom had shrunk to 5.3 percent and the middle to 44.1 percent, while the top had grown to 51.3 per­cent — larger than the other two slices combined. 
but none of the slices shrunk, because the entire pie grew. since the total income of our economy increased at a faster rate than our inequality, each group actually experienced an increase in income. The average before-tax income of the bottom increased 40.0 percent to $24,600, while the top’s swelled 78.4 percent to $245,700. Furthermore, our progres­sive taxes and transfer payments made incomes slightly less unequal. The top quintile paid two-thirds (68.7 percent) of our federal income taxes, and while the top one percent took home 14.6 percent of our nation’s income, they also paid almost a quarter (24.0 percent) of our federal income taxes. 
extreme income inequality may stunt economic growth. a recent international monetary Fund (imF) report had two important findings: First, lower net income inequality (after taxes and transfer payments) is “robustly correlated with faster and more durable growth, for a given level of redistribution”; second, “only in extreme cases is there some evidence that [redistribution] may have direct negative ef­fects on growth.” likewise, the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) recently found a “negative and statistically significant” correlation between income inequality and economic growth in a long-term study of its member countries. 
why? when low incomes serve as barriers to education and health for a large portion of the population, there is a loss of human capital. as a whole, the economy is less skilled and less productive. in addition, the wealthiest members of society — those who receive the majority of its income — have a lower marginal propensity to consume; they’re likely to spend less of their earnings in the economy. 
second: 46, 269,000. That’s roughly equal to the popula­tions of california and new york city combined. it’s also the number of americans living in poverty — 14.8 percent of our total population, one of every five children (21.5 per­cent), and one out of every four blacks (25.2 percent) and hispanics (24.7 percent). These households and individuals living below the poverty thresholds ($24,008 for a family of four, $12,071 for an individual) struggle to secure life’s most basic necessities — housing, food and healthcare — and, therefore, a decent standard of living. 
Fortunately, extensive data suggests our safety net is working. in 2014, the raw poverty rate before government as­sistance was 27.3 percent, but our safety net effectively lifted 38 million people out of poverty to cut that rate nearly in half to 15.3 percent (according to the supplemental poverty measure). our safety net helps those who need it the most: nine of every 10 recipients of government assistance are either elderly, have serious disabilities or are members of a working family struggling to make ends meet. 
Third, income inequality is connected with inequality of opportunity. while there is no objective measure of “oppor­tunity,” social mobility — the degree to which households and individuals move up and down the socio-economic ladder — is one indicator of economic outcome. To this end, the great gatsby curve demonstrates there is an inverse relationship between the concentration of wealth in one generation and social mobility in the next. 
why? consider the correlation between one’s income and one’s access to quality education and healthcare. only three of out of every four “economically disadvantaged” students 
(74.6 percent) graduate from high school, and a child’s fam­ily income almost perfectly predicts his or her chances of going to college. income level is also correlated with health insurance coverage and life expectancy. one in six people in households with incomes of 25,000 or less (16.6 percent) are uninsured, compared to just one in 19 people in households with $100,000 or more (5.3 percent). as the affordable care act took full effect in 2014, 11 million americans gained health coverage, but 55 million others — 10.4 percent of our population — remain uninsured. 
along these lines, harvard’s equality of opportunity project has found intergenerational economic mobility to be strongly correlated with racial segregation, income inequal­ity, local school quality, social capital and family structure within american communities. 
Fourth, the connection between income and politi­cal influence threatens the fairness and legitimacy of our democracy. income accurately predicts your likelihood to vote and contribute to political campaigns. as one might expect, barriers to voting, such as voter id laws and felon disenfranchisement (which strips the voting rights of 5.85 million americans), disproportionately affect low-income individuals. The income gap at the polls is important, be­cause inequality of turnout is negatively related to wealth redistribution. unsurprisingly, affluence leads to influence, and income inequality exacerbates political polarization. 
in an attempt to negate our biases due to our personal circumstances, we may borrow from John rawls’s veil of ignorance. imagine you are a child in the womb who is to be born tomorrow, somewhere in united states. but imagine you have no idea of your future sex, race, household income, zip code, sexual orientation, family structure or condition of health. rawls thinks you would want a society with univer­sal, equal basic rights and liberties and fair equality of edu­cational and employment opportunities. and perhaps, you would even want a decent minimum standard of living that would allow all “to pursue their interests and to maintain their self-respect as free and equal persons.” 
views on poverty and income inequality diverge along party lines. most democrats believe poverty is primarily due to circumstances beyond one’s control, while most republicans believe individual laziness is to blame. but only a quarter of republicans (26 percent) believe the gap between the rich and the poor is “not a problem.” Two out of every three americans (65 percent) believe it is “a problem that needs to be addressed now,” and the majority (57 per­cent) believe “the government should do more” to reduce this gap. 
saying income inequality is not a problem detracts at­tention from some of the most important economic, social, political and moral issues we face. we should focus on our extreme income inequality, if only because it will shed light on these issues — issues that are of such great size and im­portance they cannot be solved without bipartisan coopera­tion and public and private efforts at every level of society. hopefully, this viewpoint has demonstrated that — if we believe in broadly shared economic growth, if we believe in a decent standard of living for all americans, if we believe in equality of opportunity and if we believe in equal political representation — our income inequality matters. 
Liam O’Connor is a senior in the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be reached at loconno4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

From the outside looking in, Jw chen’s seems like the perfect late night, take-out spot. sharing a strip and park­ing lot with papa John’s pizzeria, this chinese restaurant would be the per­fect location for post-Thursday, Friday or saturday night grub. why not, right? pizza and chinese food? while this may be many people’s first assumption based on its appearance, Jw chen’s at­mosphere and food offer so much more. 
a mere one mile beyond campus grounds, Jw chen’s stands as one of the best chinese places i have ever expe­rienced. rated four stars on yelp, this restaurant has many different options for its customers. Jean—the restau­rant’s owner through its 10 years of op­eration—prides herself on the service, the food and the authenticity. 
“we have no msg in our products,” Jean said. “and i ask everyone before ordering if they are gluten free or have any allergies.” 
upon customers’ arrival, Jean takes a seat aside each table, asks them ques­tions like these and makes recommen­dations for each person based on their food preferences and phobias. 
“i want to know a little bit about [each customer] and ask what they normally order when going to a chinese restau­rant,” she said. “and from there, i will guess whether i think they can order on their own, or if i can surprise them or help them.” 
This unique, one-on-one interaction with Jean is mutually beneficial. it gives her a chance to meet and interact with others, while simultaneously provid­ing customers with the best options ac­cording to their tastes. when she began asking me and my friends questions, we immediately fell into a comfortable conversation about school, life and — most importantly — food. 
side note: i also realized my friends had quite different tastes from my own. 
after describing my sweet tooth, she recommended and brought out Jw chen’s honey chicken — a fantastic meal of grilled chicken with sesame and a honey glaze. likewise, she rec­ommended the lo mein and beef green bean to accommodate my friends’ tastes for chicken, noodles, beef and veggies. she also encouraged us to share, which was the best choice we made. 
Jw chen’s msg-free food compli­ments its fresh atmosphere. college students — athletes included, as Jean liked pointing out — gather in an en­closed yet cozy space and all come to­gether thru the kitchen’s offerings. even during an early five o’clock dinner on a wednesday, i ran into and conversed with a few people i knew. aside from the twenty-somethings scattered about the restaurant, grandparents, parents, children, girlfriends and guy friends all ate Jean’s recommended courseas. 
as with any solid local joint, Jw chen’s brings in its fair amount of regu­lar customers. it prides itself on the re­lationships its built thus far and hopes to continue developing strong connec­tions with the community — specifi­cally, with notre dame, st. mary’s and holy cross. 
“i love when the students come in,” Jean said. “i feel like they are all my children. i’ve done this for ten years, and the more i have done it, the more passion i have. This is my career.” 
a loving atmosphere and caringly prepared traditional food make Jw chen’s a hot south bend spot. people with all sorts of tastes can find a flavor­ful, yet not overwhelming, meal suit­able to them. 
Jean’s advice?  “Just come over, eat, and try it.” surely, she has something in mind for you. 
Contact Kathy Minko at kminko@nd.edu 


JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JACK RIEDY 
scene writer 

ah, the halcyon days of 2012. Frank ocean was firmly in the public eye, Future was an aspiring crossover star and rihanna released her seventh al­bum, “unapologetic.” Though it fea­tured hits like “pour it up” and “stay,” the album received mixed reviews and is best remembered today for the head-scratching duet with chris brown titled “nobody’s business.” Following a suc­cessful world tour, something unusual happened: rihanna stopped releasing music. after putting out seven albums in eight years, she just disappeared from the pop landscape. 
of course, the barbadian singer nev­er really went away. she appeared on shakira and eminem songs, voiced the protagonist in a dreamworks movie, signed deals with balmain, puma and dior. above all, she seemed to chill out. her instagram feed captured the in­ternational pop star swimming in the ocean, smoking blunts, dancing with friends, and generally enjoying being a pop star. 
Throughout 2015, rihanna released three singles, each radically different from the others. all along, she hinted at having an eighth album in the works, giving no clue as to when it would be released. she told mTv, “i wanted songs that i could perform in 15 years … i want to make songs that are time­less.” in november, she announced an­other massive world tour supported by samsung, set to begin in late February. The year came and went, but “#r8” was nowhere in sight. 
until last week, when roc nation released lead single “work” followed by the album, “anTi,” the same day. initially available exclusively on the much-maligned streaming service Tidal, rihanna ended up giving away a million free copies on Twitter. The sin­gle itself is fine. like adele’s “hello,” it feels focus-grouped to death. dancehall influence? check. drake is on it? check. rihanna slurs her lyrics? check. it’s the platonic ideal of what a rihanna song sounds like, and it’s boring. “work” will hit the radio hard, and people will quote it in instagram captions for a few weeks, but she won’t be performing it years from now. 
The rest of “anTi” is far better. The album is a subtly feminist statement, showing different sides of her persona that add up to a complete and complex individual. she’s always had her own musical style, but her personality has never been this fleshed out. emphasis on flesh: nearly every song focuses on sex, love or some intersection of the two. 
“needed me” is a prime example of this refreshing expression of attitude. rihanna flips a common hip-hop trope, scolding a lover for getting too attached to her when all she wants is a physical relationship. a synth that sounds like quivering sheet metal vacillates be­tween pitches in the high end while the bass locks in with a stuttering drum pattern. as the chorus hits, the bass ex­pands, threatening to swallow the en­tire song. rihanna is unfazed, belting the hook before dropping back down into a self-assured whisper. “didn’t they tell you that i was a savage?” she asks, half-rhetorically. it sounds more like the experimental Fka twigs than like any­thing on pop radio. 
on “anTi,” rihanna seems to be con­sciously avoiding the kinds of danceable tracks that rocketed her to the top of the charts. otherwise, she is willing to ex­periment with any genre. she tries each on like a designer gown, and they all fit fabulously, of course. “never ending” is an acoustic ballad, complete with foot stomping and a wordless refrain. sZa, the only other credited guest, ap­pears on opening track “consideration”, where heavily distorted drums build a thudding groove as the two singers trade verses. “kiss it better” is a prince-style rock ballad retrofitted with a heavy trap beat. The longest song on “anTi” is a completely unexpected, utterly funky Tame impala cover. in terms of fame, it’s like 1998 mariah carey recording her version of a pavement tune, but it fits perfectly within this eclectic record. 
and then there’s “higher.” it’s the sec­ond to last song on the album, and at barely two minutes, second to shortest. it may be the best song rihanna has ever sung, and boy, does she sing on it. her voice is scratched and crackling, capti­vatingly so. she sounds like she’s in the middle of a long night in, with nothing to keep her company but weed, whiskey and guilt. “i know i could be more cre­ative,” rihanna croons over the brassy shuffle of the beat. “but i’m turnt up up­stairs and ‘i love you’ is the only thing on my mind.” her voice soars into the cho­rus, peaking on the title of the song. she pleads through the phone for someone to come over for a drink, even if it’s far too late at night. The song ends with her alone “with a little bit too much to say”, awaiting an answer. “higher” captures the feeling of being head-over-heels in love with someone you’ve hurt. The haze strips away every pretension and self-serving justification until you’re unable to do anything but apologize and hope they’ll call back. it’s hopeful, it’s melan­choly and it’s perfect. 
“anTi” is unquestionably rihanna’s best album yet. a peek at the credits re­veals collaborators like The weeknd, dJ mustard, Timbaland and Travis scott, but her bravado pulls together these disparate collaborators and styles into a cohesive whole. now, another world tour beckons, a chance to hear the new tracks slotted next to past glories. only she can know if she’ll still be singing these songs in 15 years, but she will have an eager audience waiting. 
Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu 
“ANTI” 
Rihanna 
Label: Roc Nation 
Tracks: “Kiss it Better,” “Higher,” “Needed Me” If you like: Beyonce, Miguel, FKA twigs 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
FRIDAY 


What: South Bend First Friday 
When: All Day 

Where: Downtown South Bend 
How Much: Free 

Travel to downtown south bend by inbound route seven Transpo line for a day full of events including live music at the south bend museum of art, local author Tracy korn’s book signing at idle hours bookshop and special tasting menus at local restau­rants for winter restaurant week. end the night with a fireworks show over the st. Joseph river that’s sure to cap off Friday with a bang. 
SATURDAY 

What: Eric Paslay 
When: 10:00 p.m. 

Where: Legends Night Club 
How Much: Free for students 
recent grammy award nominee eric paslay will be gracing legend’s stage on saturday night. Fans are sure to hear new tracks off the coun­try singer’s anticipated second al­bum, like lead single “high class.” 
SUNDAY 

What: The Super Bowl 
When: 6:30 p.m. 
Where: Your Television 
How Much: Free-ish 
did you know the super bowl is this sunday? well it is and it’s gon­na be a fun watch. Two great sto­rylines vie to be gloriously wrapped up as cam newton tries to dab his carolina panthers to the perfect ending to a record-setting, atten­tion-grabbing season against peyton manning in his possible final nFl game. but we’re really just interested in the commercials and coldplay and beyonce’s halftime show. 
WEEKLY WATCH 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a Scene writer picks a movie or show available on an instant streaming service, and then discusses it for Monday’s paper. 
The world has been abuzz for the last month over “making a murderer,” netflix’s response to real crime documentaries after the criti­cal acclaim of hbo’s “The Jinx” and This american life podcast spin-off “serial.” watch along and then check in with rilka noel as she follows the illuminating true story of the twice-convicted steven avery and his de­bated investigation and trial. 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


PERSONAL 

Want a pro to help edit/polish your dis­sertation or other research paper? Utilize an experienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: your innovative way of dealing with whatever comes your way will be entertaining, but don’t let the attention you get this year cause you to lose sight of what’s realistic. you’ll be tempted to overdo it, causing emotional instability if you aren’t selective in the choices and commitments you make. self-improvement projects that raise your earning potential are favored. your numbers are 3, 14, 16, 26, 33, 35, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): participate in the cause you feel most passionate about. emotions will mount, encouraging you to make a move you’ve been contemplating. don’t overreact if a friend, colleague or sibling makes a negative comment or does something you don’t like. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Try something new and you’ll discover a talent you didn’t know you had. you will be enlightened by the experience you have and the people you encounter. a journey will lead to a new beginning and a fresh way of doing things.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do whatever it takes to reflect and find solutions to situations that have the potential to leave you in a vulnerable position. stick to a strict budget and refuse to be enticed by someone who wants you to be reckless with your spending. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): let your imagination take over. Follow your heart and trust your intuition to take you on a magical journey. a partnership that allows you to follow a dream or explore your creativity will develop. romance is encouraged.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): address what you are dissatisfied with in your life. it’s up to you to make the effort if you want to change your life or your direction. a day trip will lead to the information you require to initiate positive changes. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of your responsibilities so that you can get on with your day and do the things you want. participating in a function that is geared toward children or socializing can be fun, but be careful not to overspend. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): listen to complaints, but don’t let anyone make you feel guilty. it’s important to focus on making personal changes that will lead to greater happiness and less stress. you may want to consider a move or a change of friends. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make concrete moves that allow you the freedom to follow your dreams and do as you please. someone you meet along the way will offer encouragement and might want to tag along with you as well. romance is highlighted. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): an emotional or indulgent streak will lead to disaster. before things get out of hand, take a step back and consider what you can do to avoid mishaps. don’t venture too far from home. problems while traveling are likely. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll attract positive attention with your forthright attitude and your keen sense of perception. make the most of your day by taking care of business and investing your time in what you do best. celebrate your victory with someone you love. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll attract attention and offers that you won’t want to refuse. good fortune is heading your way, and the opportunity to use your imagination will result in a new and exciting project. embrace change, but refrain from overspending. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in a worthy cause or reconnect with the people you have worked with in the past and good things will transpire. you will advance if you do the legwork required to put your creative plans in motion. romance is recommended. 

Birthday Baby: you are emotional, energetic and enthusiastic. you are orderly and helpful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Bang my head against the wall / Though I feel light-headed, now I know I will not fall / I will rise above it all /
 Found what I was searching for / Though I feel light-headed / I should have failed, and nailed the floor / Instead I rose above it all 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Walton gives true color commentary 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
generally speaking, sports exist because they’re enjoy­able to play. if you play a pick-up basketball game at the gym, you’re probably not doing it for the five dudes standing on the sideline that have next after you’re done — because let’s face it, they’re not getting much enjoyment out of your 0-for­7 shooting performance on wide-open 3-pointers with two air balls. 
of course, it’s a completely different world when sports are played at a high level and become spectator sports. even the most mundane sports — i’m looking at you, curling — are exciting when they’re played at a high level with higher stakes. 
but when we watch bill walton call a game late on a weeknight on espn? we aren’t watching for the quality of play, man, we’re watching for the quality of commentating. 
That’s not to say that arizona’s matchup last week with oregon wasn’t an interesting game — es­pecially given the fact that the ducks snapped then-no. 1 arizona’s 49-game home winning streak — or that walton’s analysis of, well, the actual game is any good (hint: it isn’t). 
but he’s the best col­or commentator in the business. 
watching walton call a college basketball game is nothing short of an adven­ture through the magical world of the mind of a guy who’s nothing short of being crazy. during that oregon upset win last week, walton pulled out a can of dirt from Temecula, california 
— he describes the dirt as “magic” — and rubbed it all over his arms and face. yes, that Temecula, the southern california city more known for being the site where some dude on Twitter wanted to fight another user about kobe bryant on christmas in 2014 than anything about the city itself. 
but if we were to say that was the height of walton’s weirdness on television, it’d be a complete and total lie. 
a quick search of “bill walton” on Twitter turns up a slew of great results; a recent link to him talking about volcanoes during an arizona trip to california gives us a gem of a quote. 
“are you aware that there’s three volcanoes going off right now in the world?” walton pondered. “something’s happening. The planets are all lined up. 
“ … somebody better watch out what’s gonna hap­pen to yellowstone pretty soon. That’s where they’re predicting the next big one.” 
bill walton: ncaa cham­pion, nba champion, volca­nologist. alright then. 
what else has walton said? 
“with demarcus cousins, i want more. i don’t want a six-inch, i want a 12-inch.” 
“i want to see the rivers flow. i want to see the moun­tains covered with snow. i want to see rainbows and volcanoes.” 
“i majored in biology at ucla. on sorority row.” 
“are you old enough to remember when people used to defect?” 
“i was way in the back of that [limo]. i was way in the back with ray lewis. and it was unbelievable how much fun — oh my gosh.” 
and that’s the absurd stuff that doesn’t pertain to basketball. 
when his son luke played at arizona, he was asked if he knew a little something about him. 
“yeah, he’s a 6-foot-8 for­ward from the university of arizona.” 
Then there were these: 
“John stockton is one of the true marvels, not just of basketball, or in america, but in the history of western civilization.” 
“come on, that was no foul! it may be a violation of all the basic rules of human decency, but it’s not a foul.” 
and perhaps his greatest ever: 
“we celebrate his bril­liance, and when you talk to boris diaw you realize what a classical human being he is. it was 201 years ago today, beethoven’s symphony no. 3 in e Flat, which escorted in the age of romanticism in music. and when i think of boris diaw, i think of beethoven and the age of the romantics. This guy has it all.” 
boris. diaw. 
There are times when i watch a game because it’ll be a good contest. and there are others when i watch one be­cause it’ll be a good time. 
Thank you, bill walton, for giving us the latter each night you’re on the call. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NHL | ny rangers 4, minnesoTa wild 2 
rangers rally from two down to overtake wild 
Associated Press 

new york — derick brassard set up the tying goal and scored the game-winner early in the third period as the new york rangers rallied from a two-goal deficit to beat the strug­gling minnesota wild 4-2 on Thursday night. 
rangers defenseman ryan mcdonagh and streaking 
J.T. miller each had a goal and an assist as new york stretched its winning streak at madison square garden to four games. henrik lundqvist made 16 saves, including two third-period stops on marco scandella af­ter the rangers took the lead. chris kreider added an emp­ty-net goal with 1:48 to play 
ryan carter and matt dumba scored for the wild, who lost their second straight after the all-star break and fell to 1-8-1 in their last 10. 
all-star goalie devan dubnyk made 26 saves as the teams split their two-game season series. 
after falling behind 2-0 in a bad first period, the rangers dominated the second and tied the score on goals by mcdonagh and miller in a 
1:20 span early in the period. 
mcdonagh got the rebound of his own blocked shot and beat dubnyk with a shot in close at 3:15. 
miller tied the score with a great shot from the left circle at 4:35 after taking a pass from behind the net by brassard. it was miller’s sev­enth goal in six games and eighth in eight. 
dubnyk kept the score tied in the next few minutes by stopping a rebound attempt in close from oscar lindberg and making a glove save on defenseman keith yandle while sitting in the crease. new york had the first 12 shots in the period. 
The rangers came back from the all-star break and lost to the new Jersey devils on Tuesday night, and it was a former devil who put them behind early. 
carter, who just returned to the wild lineup after missing seven games, blocked a point shot by defenseman marc staal and beat lundqvist on a breakaway at 2:09 for his fifth goal. 
dumba made it 2-0 at 7:57 by snapping a 20-game goal drought with a power-play score from the top of the left circle. 
The rangers have been dreadful on the penalty kill lately. They gave up two goals in two short-handed situa­tions against new Jersey, and minnesota also scored on its first attempt. NOTES 
wild d ryan suter played in his 800th game. ...  new york d kevin klein is out indefinitely after breaking his thumb late in Tuesday night’s game against the devils. ... wild center charlie coyle had his four-game goal streak snapped. ... in his last 18 starts at home dating to oct. 22, lundqvist is 15-2-1. 

NBA | pisTons 111, knicks 105 
Pistons stumble, but recover to beat Knicks 
Associated Press 

auburn hills, mich. — anthony Tolliver and reggie Jackson made a trio of big 3-pointers late in the fourth quarter, and the detroit pistons avoided a colos­sal collapse, beating the new york knicks 111-105 on Thursday night. 
The knicks rallied from a 27-point second-quarter deficit, taking a 97-95 lead on a layup by robin lopez. Tolliver’s 3-pointer put the pistons back ahead, and Jackson added another to make it 101-97. 
after a dunk by lopez cut the margin back to two, Jackson added another 3-pointer, and the pistons were able to hold on. 
Jackson finished with 21 points, and stanley Johnson added 22 and nine rebounds. andre drummond had 17 points and 13 rebounds for detroit. 
lopez had 26 points and 16 rebounds. 
carmelo anthony scored 19 points for new york, which lost for the seventh time in eight games. 
Johnson, detroit’s first-round draft pick last year, made his second start of the season because kentavious caldwell-pope was out with a core muscle strain. he is out at least until the all-star break. 
The knicks started the game 1 of 10 from the field and trailed 12-2 — with detroit’s first 12 points all coming from 3-point range. The pistons led by 12 after one and began the second quarter with a 21-6 run, tak­ing a 48-21 lead on a dunk by aron baynes. 
new york’s terrible half came to a fitting conclu­sion after anthony made a free throw with 4 seconds left. The knicks let brandon Jennings get free behind the defense for a long pass, and his layup made it 60-36. 
new york outscored the pistons 35-18 in the third. arron afflalo finished with 24 points for the knicks, who looked poised to come away with a remarkable victory be­fore Tolliver’s shot turned the game back in detroit’s favor. 
while on the bench, the pistons wore red shirts that said “FlinTnow” as part of a relief effort launched by owner Tom gores. a Flint native, gores has pledged to raise $10 million to address the water crisis there. 
The team announced ear­lier this week that players and executives will commit $500,000 to the effort. mateen cleaves, morris peterson and antonio smith — three for­mer michigan state players who are from Flint — took part in the ceremonial game ball presentation before the game. 
TIP-INS 
knicks: rookie kristaps porzingis scored only five points on 2-of-9 shooting. 
pistons: caldwell-pope’s consecutive games streak — the second-longest active one in the league — ended at 208. ... drummond landed hard after being fouled by lance Thomas near the basket in the fourth. Thomas was given a flagrant foul. drummond was able to keep playing. ... The 3-pointer was the only field goal Tolliver attempted. 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | Trine 68, smc 51 
Knapke, Shea reach 1,000 career points in loss 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 
saint mary’s lost its 12th straight contest wednesday night at home to Trine, 68-51, but watched two milestone moments for the program happen along the way. 
despite the loss, the belles (1­20, 1-11 miaa) had something to celebrate: senior forwards and team captains krista knapke and eleni shea scored their 1,000th career points against the Thunder (13-7, 6-6 miaa). 
knapke and shea join an elite group of only 13 belles all-time to reach the 1,000-point bench­mark. shea led the way with a team-high 20 points while knapke scored nine. 
knapke described the signifi­cance of her 1,000th point after the game, and especially what it meant to achieve it with shea, her friend and teammate. 
“it is definitely an exciting ac­complishment to reach 1,000 career points,” she explained. “it is also fun to be a part of the first time in saint mary’s history that two players reached 1,000 points in the same game.” 
although two seniors were able to have their names etched into the record books, the rest of the game did not go the way the belles had hoped. 
saint mary’s started out strong as it has many times this year, keeping close throughout the first quarter and finishing the quarter down just three, 19­
16. The Thunder began to pull away in the second, reaching a 10-point lead twice in the quar­ter, but the belles responded and cut the lead to single digits, en­tering the break down just eight points, 34-26. 
The third quarter was slow for both teams, as they shot a com­bined 30 percent from the field. Trine was able to convert on 5 of 6 shots from the free throw line, however, and entered the fourth with a 13-point lead. 
saint mary’s continued to fight in the fourth quarter, but their shooting struggles continued as they went more than three min­utes without a field goal. 
knapke and shea were both able to reach their 1,000th points within two minutes of one an­other later in the fourth, however, providing a bright spot for the belles in the final quarter. 
shea said she’s starting to come to grips with the impending fin­ish to her saint mary’s career, with the belles officially elimi­nated from postseason play and only four games remaining in the regular season. 
“it is beginning to set in that we only have a few games left, which is a really weird thing to encoun­ter after playing basketball for most of my life,” shea said. “it is definitely sad to think about my final season coming to an end, but i’ve had a great experience playing at saint mary’s these past four years, and i’ve been blessed with supportive and hardwork­ing teammates who have made this experience so worthwhile. as we near the end of this sea­son, it is important for us to keep working hard and finish strong as we complete the second round of conference play.” 
The belles are next in action at undefeated and top-ranked hope on saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at riannelli@nd.edu 



CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Senior forward and team captain Eleni Shea shoots over an Olivet defender during a 52-49 loss on Jan. 23 at Angela Gym. Shea joined fellow captain Krista Knapke in  scoring her 1,000th career point during a 68-51 loss to Trine on Wednesday at Angela Gym. The Belles are back in action when the travel to Hope on Saturday. 


Track 
conTinued From page 16 
these are girls who have already been to an ncaa championship in cross country, so they’re used to crowds being right next to them when they’re running on the course.” 
The meyo invitational also marks the return to the track for reigning cross country and outdoor 10,000-meter run na­tional champion molly seidel. after winning the cross country championship in the fall, Turner decided to rest the senior for the first few meets of the season, but he said he is excited to see her in action again in the 3,000-meter run this weekend. 
“molly’s in just great shape,” Turner said. “every time she’s on the track we expect fireworks, and she’s done that ever since the ncaa outdoor championships last year. i think she’s going to have an awesome race.” 
in the field events, the irish are looking for big performanc­es from a number of athletes including junior pole vaulter nate richartz, freshman high jumper matthew birzer and ju­nior weight thrower anthony shivers. Turner said he wants a big performance from shivers in particular. 
“if he’s going to be anywhere near the top three or four guys, [shivers] is going to have to throw 20 meters,” Turner said. “we’ve got a bunch of athletes coming here for the throws that are very good. purdue’s got a great thrower, michigan state has a great thrower, so anthony’s going to have to step it up just a notch.” 
another athlete Turner has his eye on is graduate student kaila barber in the 60-meter hurdles. barber finished first in the event last week at the indiana relays, but at the meyo invitational Turner said she will face tough competition, including her sister, Jade, a three-time all american who graduated from the university in 2015. 
“[barber’s] going to be in one of the toughest events,” Turner said. “The women’s hurdles is stacked. cindy ofili from michigan has the fastest time in the country for ncaa runners, she’s here. and kaila’s sister Jade, she’s going to be running as well. [Jade barber] is a three-time all-american in the hurdles. last week at a meet in canada, she ran 8.11 [sec­onds]. kaila’s going to have to run pretty fast to win it.” 
The meyo invitational starts Friday at 4 p.m. and continues on saturday with the meyo mile tentatively scheduled for 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
Junior guard demetrius Jackson’s performance was particularly troublesome. he finished just 3-of-11 from the floor for six points. brey attributed Jackson’s play to his trying to get back into a rhythm after missing last Thursday’s game against syracuse with a hamstring injury. 
despite the team’s poor performance against miami, brey said he is planning on sticking with the same start­ing lineup he has employed each of the last two games. That lineup has senior for­ward a.J. burgett, who had seen very limited action be­fore sunday, starting at the ‘4’ in place of either sopho­more forward bonzie colson or freshman forward matt ryan. 
“i like the maturity of that group,” brey said. “i think it’s very important for this 
stretch  of  saturday  and  
monday.”  
brey’s  starting  five  will  

need to use all the experi­ence they earned, as they go against one of the most vet­eran teams in the acc on saturday. 
senior forward brice Johnson is the focal point for the Tar heels, averaging 16.7 points per game while pulling down 10.2 rebounds. outside of Johnson, north carolina looks to a host of different players that have all contrib­uted to the Tar heels’ eighth-ranked scoring offense in the country, entering saturday averaging 84.9 points per game. senior guard marcus paige (12.4 ppg), sophomore guard Joel berry ii (12.4 ppg), sophomore guard/forward Justin Jackson (12.0 ppg), ju­nior forward kennedy meeks 
(11.3 ppg) and junior forward isaiah hicks (9.8 ppg) are all threats for the Tar heels. 
“it comes back down to defense,” Jackson said of how to stop the Tar hell of­fense. “we’ve got to dial in and be consistent. it doesn’t have to be a perfect game to win, but we have to be more consistent.” 
north carolina (19-3, 8-1 acc) is not only a veteran squad but a deep one. nine players are logging at least 10 minutes a game, with the most being berry at just over 30 minutes per contest. 
“i think it’s the wear and tear: you’re playing a team that pounds you in the paint,” brey said of what the tough­est part of playing the Tar heels is for opposing teams. “[north carolina] wants to keep pounding you with post feeds and keeps pounding the offensive boards. we’re going to have to help our big guy when they feed the post. our block outs are going to be such a key.” 


play with a free mind and let it rip. i don’t think anyone is going to give us much of a chance on saturday, so let’s go play like we have nothing to lose.” 
with college gameday on site, notre dame hosts top-ranked north carolina on saturday at purcell pavilion. Tip is set for 7 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

in 11 days and had just post-W Bball ed back-to-back games with conTinued From page 16 fewer than 70 points for the 
first time all season, shoot-making good passes. we play ing just 38 percent over that well together.” span. and early on, it seemed 
entering Thursday’s as though the team’s shoot­matchup, notre dame had ing woes had followed them not played at purcell pavilion back home, as the irish 

playing such a tough op­ponent, brey said he doesn’t think it will take a lot to fire his team up. it doesn’t hurt college gameday will be there either, for the first time since notre dame’s 104-101 five-overtime victory over no. 11 louisville in 2013. 
“it’s gonna be a crazy at­mosphere, it’s gonna be fun,” senior forward Zach auguste said. “one of my best memories here was against 
failed to score for nearly two minutes. 
but cable finally got things started with a 3-pointer 1:55 into the game that gave notre dame a lead it would never relinquish. indeed, through­out the first quarter, the wolfpack (17-6, 7-3) had no answer for cable, who scored 13 points in the game’s first eight minutes. 
“madison was unbeliev­able,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “she tied her career high, just made every­thing. i think she made some huge plays, scoring in a little different way tonight. she moved without the ball well, moved off the dribble well.” 
overall, notre dame fin­ished the game shooting 52.6 percent from the field, just above its season average. 
“coming off the last few games where we really haven’t played well offen­sively, it was nice to have a really good game,” mcgraw said. “ … The bench contin­ues to play well. [Freshman guard arike ogunbowale] came off the bench and gives us that instant offense. we needed some punch early and she gave that to us.” 
ogunbowale was the only irish player besides cable to score more than two field goals in the first quarter, and she ended the game with 10 points, one of five notre dame players to score in louisville. The atmosphere is going to be incredible. we just have to play within our­selves and be patient.” 

with his team in need of a signature win, brey said he is confident in his veterans to step up and forget about wednesday’s defeat at miami. 
“[we need a] very short memory, especially in February with the level of competition coming at us,” brey said. “and you want to 
double figures. 
but the increase in offense did not come at the expense of the squad’s defense, as the irish limited their oppo­nent to fewer than 50 points for the third time in the past four games. The irish now lead the acc in points al­lowed per conference game. 
“The defense has been re­ally good,” mcgraw said. “i looked the other day and saw we were first in the confer­ence. … That’s astounding. That never happens. it was really, really nice to see that. 
“we’re normally up there offensively, but it’s a nice change to be up there de­fensively. it means we’re re­ally working hard. and that’s where you see the team chemistry, on the defensive end.” 
sophomore forward brianna Turner has been key to that defensive surge, mcgraw said. she recorded two blocks Thursday night, her 12th straight game with at least that many, and she leads the irish in rebounding. 
but though notre dame won on the boards against nc state, 38-28, perhaps the strongest part of its defense was its ability to steal the ball from the wolfpack. The irish swiped the ball 13 times Thursday, their highest to­tal in nearly a month, led by sophomore forward kathryn westbeld, who recorded a career high with four steals. 
Those steals led to 10 fast break points for notre dame, which helped to spark the team’s offense, mcgraw said. 
“we really got the transi­tion game going,” mcgraw said. “… we’re not great with steals. we’re getting better. i thought we did a pretty good job tonight.” 
with the victory, notre dame tied a program record of 31 straight home confer­ence wins. The irish will have the opportunity to break that record Feb. 14 against miami (Fla.) 
before that, though, the irish will face no. 13 louisville on the road this sunday. The cardinals (18­5, 10-0) have won 15 straight and are tied with notre dame atop the acc stand­ings. led by sophomore for­ward myisha hines-allen, louisville has four starters who average more than 11 points per game. 
“it’s going to be a huge game. This stretch that we’re in now … the top of the league is coming up,” mcgraw said. “They’re a really good team, a really young team. They’ve got a lot of talent.” 
notre dame faces louisville at the kFc yum! center this sunday. Tipoff is scheduled for 2 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 




Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
i love playing every game. i love being the guy that’s called on every night, and i think that’s helped my confi­dence a lot. The team knows what they’re going to get out of me each night, which is a good thing in there. i’m able to build a good relationship with my defense. i think the cohesiveness between that has been going well.” 
now that the fifth-longest unbeaten streak in team his­tory has been snapped, the challenge for the irish this weekend will be to get back on track when they face an improving catamounts team on the road. 
“i think this week we had one of our best practice weeks of the year, which is great,” petersen said. “i’m sure it’s been said before, and i think the guys realize we were a little off last week. 
paid adverTisemenT 

and obviously the game didn’t start well on Friday with that kind of weird, fluky goal, but i think it was good for us to get burned a little bit. i think we were maybe a little bit okay with having an off day, but i think the best part about it is we came back this week and the guys were a little bit pissed off, which should translate well this weekend.” 
Jackson added vermont’s high-paced style of play will be a challenge for notre dame all weekend, especial­ly at gutterson Fieldhouse. 
“i expect [vermont] to be aggressive, tenacious,” Jackson said. “They come at you in waves. They’re very aggressive, they play physi­cal. They’re an aggressive fore-checking team. They play well in their building. They have a great high ceil­ing and student section that creates an environment that’s intimidating. 
“it’s a darker building so it’s a little different in that regard too. it’s got real wide corners, deep behind the goal line. it’s like 15 feet from the goal line to the back boards, so you have a lot of space be­hind the net. defensively, you have to make sure you don’t get stretched out, almost like an olympic-sheet situation. and the same thing offen­sively, you take advantage of that additional space.” 
petersen reiterated the words of his coach, saying vermont had some injuries at the beginning of the year but is starting to come into form as the season winds down. 
“They’re very skilled,” petersen said. “i think, espe­cially going into their rink, it’s going to be a big chal­lenge. They’ve beaten some big teams. really probably our four hardest weekends of the year are coming up here, so it’ll be really important for us to end strong.” 
as the regular season be­gins to wind down, the irish turn their attention solely to the catamounts, whom they will meet twice this weekend. The puck drops both Friday and saturday nights at 7:05 
p.m. at gutterson Fieldhouse in burlington, vermont. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 82, norTh carolina sTaTe 46 
Notre Dame crushes NC State behind 25 from Cable 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
stuck in the midst of a mini-shooting slump, no. 3 notre dame took comfort in the familiar Thursday night, routing north carolina state, 82-46, at purcell pavilion. 
graduate student guard madison cable led the irish (22-1, 10-0 acc) with 25 points, which tied her career high, and seven rebounds, while junior guard lindsay allen posted 10 points and eight assists. cable has now appeared in 132 games for the irish, the most on the team, and Thursday marked allen’s 100th consecutive start. 
“i’m just happy we won,” cable said. “i just thought some of my shots were falling in where other nights they wouldn’t. but it’s easy when the people that are look­ing for you are making good passes. … lindsay [allen] had eight assists, so people were 
see w bball PAGE 14 


HOCKEY 
vermont awaits nd, petersen 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame will try to bounce back from its first defeat since late november and create a new unbeat­en streak when it heads to vermont for a pair of conference games this weekend. 
The no. 10 irish (14-5-7, 10-2-2 hockey east), after falling to rival and then-no. 5 boston college at home last weekend, will now turn their attention to the catamounts (11-14-2, 5-7-2). 
and with only four week­ends left before the start of the postseason and argu­ably the toughest stretch of the season still left to play for the irish, this is when games start to mean the most, according to head coach Jeff Jackson. 
“you know they’re looking [at the standings],” Jackson said of his team. “i’m just trying not to magnify it, to make it worse, because i’m sure they’re looking. They see where they are in the league or where they are in the ncaa picture, and it’s way too early to start thinking about that in my opinion. we have prob­ably the toughest schedule of any hockey east team here in the last month, go­ing to vermont and then providence and bu, and we cannot fall asleep against maine. so it’s going to be a tough five, six weeks.” 
a big part of the reason notre dame has been so successful in recent months has been the emergence of sophomore goalie cal petersen, who wednesday was named hockey east goaltender of the month for his 1.89 goals against aver­age and .940 save percent­age in January. 
“it’s been great,” petersen said. “For me, it’s the posi­tion that i want to be in. 
see hockey PAGE 15 
TRACK & FIELD 

meyo invite to draw elite competition 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame kicks off its most popular event of the year Friday when it hosts the meyo invitational. 
in addition to drawing top athletes from around the coun­try, the meyo invitational will have added significance this year as irish head coach alan Turner said he expects many of his athletes to embrace the high-profile competition. 
“Traditionally at this point in the season, athletes from here on out are probably going to run faster until the acc cham­pionships,” Turner said. “with the level of competition that we have coming in this point in the season, i’m expecting all my athletes to get a season’s best this weekend. if they’re not at a season’s best, they should be very close to it.” 
some of the runners Turner said he hopes perform well are freshmen standouts annie heffernan, anna rohrer and rachel dadamio. all three will be racing in the meet’s signa­ture event, the meyo mile. 
“anna, that’s not her main event, she’s better at the lon­ger stuff, the 10,000-meters, 5,000 and 3,000,” Turner said. “so it’s going to be a test for her and annie [heffernan] as well. now rachel [dadamio], she’s a better miler than the other two on paper, but we’ll see what happens.” 
The three freshman were all part of notre dame’s cross country team that finished eighth at the ncaa champion­ships, and Turner said he hopes their experience in the cross country season prepares them for the crowd noise that comes with the meyo mile. 
“These type of meets where it’s going to be packed, we’re expecting over a thousand ath­letes and a thousand fans or so in [loftus sports complex],” Turner said. “The crowd’s going to be right on top of them, they spill over onto the track in lanes five and six… if you can handle the crowd here and the compe­tition here, you will definitely be ready for the acc and the ncaa meets down the line.and 
see Track PAGE 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish welcome top-ranked Tar Heels to Purcell 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
looking to bounce back from losing two of its last three games, notre dame welcomes no. 1 north carolina to purcell pavilion on saturday night. 
notre dame (15-7, 6-4 acc) is coming off a 79-70 loss on the road to miami on wednesday and thus will be trying to avoid its first back-to-back losses since march 2014. irish head coach mike brey said he pinpointed a few thing from the miami loss he hopes the irish can fix come saturday. 
“i think defensively get­ting beat off the dribble was the thing i got after them about at halftime and came back and ad­dressed it in a calmer mode after the game,” brey said. “penetration really hurt us, sitting down in a stance. Those are things that we must be better at.” 
see m bball PAGE 14 






