The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 98 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Breen-Phillips Hall hosts annual meal auction 
Students to bid on dining with campus figures, enter raffles to win other prizes 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
The notre dame community has the opportunity to support the south bend community by participating in the breen­phillips hall 32nd annual meal auction on Thursday. during the event, students will have the chance to bid on dining with various “campus celebri­ties,” as well as gift baskets, gift cards and several other prize items. all profits from the auc­tion will go to meals on wheels of st. Joseph county. 
co-chair and sophomore Jennifer Flanagan said the event is centered around the theme of community. 
“meals on wheels is a local charity, so we’re giving back to the south bend community, and it’s also branching out to the notre dame community with all of these professors and coaches that are taking stu­dents into their homes or out in south bend and treating them to dinner,” she said. 
Flanagan said other prizes 
see aucTion PAGE 3 



panelists discuss creation of ‘selma’ documentary 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
Filmmaker Jayasri majumdar hart and professor of religious studies and film consultant carol coburn took part in a view­ing and discussion of the pbs documentary “sisters of selma: bearing witness for change” on Tuesday evening. 
The event was spon­sored by saint mary’s center of multicultural services, campus ministry and student diversity board (sdb) and was moderated by deacon melvin Tardy, Jr., an academic advi­sor in notre dame’s First year of studies and assistant profes­sorial specialist. Tardy is also the chair of the black catholic advisory board for the diocese of Fort wayne-south bend. 
The documentary features the testimonies of catholic sis­ters who went to selma in 1965 to peacefully protest for civil rights, alongside thousands of activists and dr. martin luther king Jr. according to the docu­mentary, the goal of the protest in selma was to exercise african­americans’ legal right to register to vote without encountering harm and intimidation tactics. 
hart said she found the story of the catholic sisters while do­ing research. 
“what amazed me was how much news footage was avail­able, and i thought ‘i have to make this film’” she said. “[pbs] makes sure everything you put in your film is authentic. They are very supportive but very 
see selma PAGE 4 


Professor explores German response to refugee crisis 
crisis” on Tuesday night, frightened nation, and its fear 
By JENNA WILSON 

news writer sponsored by the depart-is twofold,” he said. “First, ment of german and russian you have those who are afraid 



Candidates announced for SMC election 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
Two tickets announced their candidacy for saint mary’s student body presi­dent and vice president Tuesday. Juniors mckenzie Johnson and barbi prokup in the noble Family dining hall, and elections will be held Thursday. The winning ticket will take office april 1, succeeding current stu­dent body president kaitlyn baker and vice president maddie kohler. 
mccarthy, a political sci­

germany is paralyzed by 
fear, according to dr. Tim 
lörke, the max kade visiting 
professor in german, and 
a professor at the Friedrich 
schlegel graduate school 
of literary studies, Free 

of change. The german labor 
hope to deliver “change, ence major, and dingler, 
market, which looks so good 
communication and com-a humanistic studies ma-
at this time, might suffer. 
munity,” according to jor with a concentration in 
They fear that german values 
official campaign materi-english writing, put 
a spe­

might change. on the other 
als, while juniors emma cial emphasis on transpar­
hand, they are frightened 
mccarthy and mary Joy ency in their campaign. 
that germany may become a 
dingler are campaigning “one thing we really want 
news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 bengal bouTs PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 
university berlin. lörke 
nationalist and isolated state 
to promote transparency, to work on is publishing of-
delivered a lecture titled 
once again. They fear that 
communication and diver-fice hours [of members of 
“impressions of a Frightened languages. germany might turn it’s back 
sity on campus. student government],” 
nation — germany’s role in “looked at from an inner 
The two tickets will deliv­
the international refugee perspective, germany is a see germany PAGE 4 
er speeches today at 5 p.m. see elecTion PAGE 4 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 

Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What song title describes your life right now? 

Cassie Libbing 
junior 
le mans hall 
“‘ugh!’ by The 1975.” 



Maria Roberts 
senior le mans hall 

“‘king kunta’ by kendrick lamar.” 

Kaitlyn Augdahl 
junior le mans hall 

“‘Jesus Take the wheel’ by carrie underwood.” 



Paige O’Brien 
first year 
regina hall 

“‘crazier’ by Taylor swift.” 

Krystal Harris 
first year 
mccandless hall 

“‘keeping your head up’ by birdy.” 



Rose Marie Vicenzi 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 

“‘all by myself’ by eric carmen.” 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
catherine owers kit loughran 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale ben padanilam megan valley r.J. stempak 
Graphics Scene 

susan Zhu miko malabute Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Viewpoint 

chris collins bianca almada Lecture ND Women’s “Flint: Water, Race Axiom Brass ND Women’s Lacrosse Geddes Hall Basketball vs. Clemson and Accountability” DeBartolo Performing vs. California 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Purcell Pavilion Law School Arts Center    Arlotta Stadium “Fair Use in the 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 


Corrections 

Academic Environment: The Irish take on the Lecture presented by Notre Dame The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as A Scholar’s Primer.” Tigers. Julie Hurwitz. Symphony Orchestra. Golden Bears. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Sorin Scholars Fr. Ted Talk Fr. Hesburgh Hockey vs. BU Solemn Vespers 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Lecture Recker’s Restaurant Memorial Concert Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Library South Dining Hall Basilica of the Sacred Arena Heart 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. 8:30 pm-9:30 p.m. Heart 7:05 p.m.-9:05 p.m. 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Featuring Professor Professor Daniel 8 p.m.-9 p.m. The Irish take on the Evening prayer in the 
we can correct our error. 

Carl Ackermann. Lapsley will present. Honor Fr. Hesburgh. Terriers. Lady Chapel. 


release 
declares 
tuition 



increase 

Observer Staff Report 

The university announced in a press release Friday that un­dergraduate tuition and fees will increase 3.7 percent for the 2016­17 academic year to $49,685. 
“average room and board rates of $14,358 will bring to­tal student charges to $64,043,” the release stated. “The per­centage increase matches that of last year and is the lowest at notre dame in more than a half century.” 
The increase in 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was 3.8 percent. 
“The charges were set by the board of Trustees at its Jan. 29 meeting,” the release stated. 
according to the 2015-2016 bulletin of information, the ba­sic fee for an on-campus student for the academic year ranges from $30,881.50 to $31,137.50 per semester. The tuition and fees for the full-time off-campus student is $23,964.50 per semes­ter for the 2015–2016 academic year. 


Speaker encourages students to ‘Beat the Blame Game’ 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer 
courtney abbott, a speaker for catharsis productions, presented a powerful refuta­tion of the victim shaming culture that often surrounds sexual violence accusa­tions on Tuesday evening at geddes hall. 
in her presentation, which was sponsored by the gender relations center (grc) and titled “beat the blame game,” abbott said victim blaming is harmful because it moves the fault away from those who deserve it. 
“it removes responsibility from the perpetrator and the system,” she said. 
The worst part of this cul­ture, abbott said, is that it en­ables the offenders. 
“if the victims of any crime are not reporting that crime, the perpetrators are getting away with it,” she said. “we know for a fact this happens with sexual violence. when people are not called out for their actions, they will repeat and repeat and repeat their actions.” 
abbott said this victim blaming leads people to fre­quently doubt those who have suffered from sexual violence. 

“even with all of the aware­ness and the campaigns, we still live in a world that often looks at people who come for­ward saying they’ve been vic­timized with a lot of doubt,” she said. 
abbott said victims, in­stead of being treated with sympathy, are treated as cau­tionary tales many times. 
“we want to see where they went wrong so we can make a moral fable out of it,” she said. 
This criticizing of the vic­tim takes two major forms, abbott said, and she strongly disagrees with these tactics, especially when they attempt to discredit the victim for their lack of sobriety. 
“we either attack some­one’s character, or we attack someone’s choices,” she said. 
The way in which sexual violence prevention is taught fails to prepare people for the reality of the situation, she said. most common sexual assault avoidance strategies, like walking in groups and carrying pepper spray, are aimed at fending off assaults by strangers. 
“stranger attacks make up the minority of sexual as­saults,” she said. 
abbott said people let their guard down when they’re around those they know. 
“when we trust people and let them into our spac­es, we think that these rules 

“If the victims of any crime are not reporting that crime, the perpetrators are getting away with it. ... When people are not called out for their actions, they will repeat and repeat and repeat their actions.” 
Courtney Abbott 
speaker 
Catharsis Productions 

don’t apply,” abbott said. “unfortunately, the major­ity of sexual assaults are between people who do know each other.” 
abbott said sexual assaults could be prevented if every­one was mindful of consent and their partner’s limits. 
“looking for active, ver­bal, sober, ongoing consent throughout the experience is a great way to encourage your­self and your partner to have a better time,” she said. “it lets that person know that you re­spect his or her boundaries.” 
Those close to victims must be willing to listen to and be­lieve the victim, abbott said. This is the only way more victims will start coming forward. 
“if they trust you, you have to respect and live up to that trust,” abbott said. “help make a safe space for them.” 
abbott said everyone must make an effort to stop sexual violence through his or her ac­tions and choices. 
“if you make a choice to do nothing, you still picked a side,” abbot said. “in this case, you’re enabling the predators.” 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 



Auction 
conTinued From page 1 
being raffled or auctioned off include gift certificates to local restaurants such as cJ’s pub, le peep and rocky river Tap & Table. other items available at the auction include bose wire­less speaker, a $100 lululemon gift card, tickets to this sum­mer’s pga Tour, tickets to multiple chicago blackhawks games and tickets to a chicago vice president of student af-procuring donations from lo-cubs game. fairs erin hoffmann harding, cal restaurants “has been a lot 

according to the breen-a home cooked meal or irish of work, but it’s definitely been phillips meal auction Facebook tea at the Fiddler’s hearth with worth it,” Flanagan said. The event, several celebrity meals assistant director of social auction has evolved since its being auctioned off are with concerns seminars kyle lantz, early years, and up until last various irish head coaches, in-a class with True balance yoga year, only celebrity meals were cluding football coach brian founder steve krojniewski and auctioned off, and the event kelly, women’s basketball coach a home-cooked, traditional was a live two-hour auction. muffet mcgraw and men’s bas-south african dinner at profes-“That was hard because it’s ketball coach mike brey. sor anré venter’s home. hard to get students on a school 
other prizes being auctioned students can pay for auc-night to commit two hours,” off include a private tour of the tion items with domer dollars, Flanagan said. two new residence halls led by venmo, cash or checks. This year, the auction will 
paid adverTisemenT 


last from 4 to 9 p.m., during which students can stop in to the dooley room at any time and fill out bid sheets and raf­fle tickets. at the end of night, if any events are still being bid competitively, the auction will go live. 
“Typically it raises a couple thousand dollars, so we’re hop­ing it’ll raise that for meals on wheels again,” Flanagan said. 
Flanagan said there will be special events throughout the night to entertain those who come to the auction. From 4 to 5 p.m., campus represen­tatives from rockstar energy drinks will be at the auction distributing free drinks and merchandise. From 5 to 6 p.m., campus representatives from kind snacks will be giving out granola bars; from 6 to 7 p. m., students who buy raffle tickets will get free berries donated from meijer’s grocery stores; and from 7 to 8 p.m., campus representatives from vineyard vines will be giving out free merchandise. 
“The most important part is that it’s for a really great char­ity; i think that’s why we’ve gotten so many awesome do­nations, and i’ve been sur­prised at how generous south bend has been,” Flanagan said. “it’s brought bp together, it’s brought some really cool pro­fessors together, so ultimately we hope it raises a ton of money for meals on wheels.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 




Germany 
conTinued From page 1 
to the refugees.” 
lörke said he is not an ex­pert on political science or economics, but he wanted to explore the refugee crisis through a cultural lens as a professor of literature and a german citizen. 
“i live in berlin, and berlin has the second biggest share of muslim people in germany. most of [these muslim immi­grants] come from Turkey and have been living here for years. Their children, or grand­children, have never lived in Turkey,” he said. “i live in the city where living and work­ing together seem to work out comparatively well. when you wander the streets of berlin, you are not surprised by diver­sity. in other cities, diversity does not work out that well.” 
muslims have integrated into german society through taking civil jobs and join­ing german political parties, lörke said. 
“muslims have become state officials and civil servants, they are on the police force and work in universities,” he said. 
lörke said many muslim soccer players have gained popularity in the country, making germans more com­fortable with islam and there­fore helping to forge a new german national identity. during the world cup, Turkish germans were proud, lörke said, raising the german flag to support the players on the team. 

“during the ... world cup, you see the flag, and it really does feel good,” he said. 
however, despite the inte­gration of muslims into the german society, lörke noted that there is still fear and de­bate surrounding the 1 mil­lion refugees germany took in during 2015. 
“There is an intense debate about muslims in germany because of the intense in­flux of refugees from syria, iran and iraq. This current situation cannot be com­pared to those [immigrants] who came to germany for a brighter future or Turkish aid workers. immigration can­not be compared to fleeing from your home,” lörke said. 
“immigration is a fundamen­tally different situation than refugees. They aren’t leaving voluntarily or simply perusing more prosperous living condi­tions — they are being forced out.” 
many german minorities are unhappy about the num­ber of refugees, lörke said, and 40 percent of muslim citi­zens say german should stop taking refugees. according to lörke, many of these muslims said they came to germany to get away from islam and are worried the refugees will bring in anti-pluralistic laws. 
“also, germany’s Jewish population is worried about the rise of anti-semitism, be­cause many of the refugees come from countries that do not support israel,” lörke said. 

“They are very afraid.” 
lörke said politicians have the difficult tasks of balancing conflicting ethics: the ethics of responsibility and humani­tarian ethics. at the moment, germany is struggling to meet humanitarian needs while continuing to protect german prosperity and minority rights. 
“germans fear they have wronged the refugees and wronged themselves,” lörke said. “but germany has been successful in adopting refu­gees and immigrants in the past, and i really think that we can do that again. it is just about talking to each other, understanding each other.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 


Candidates 
conTinued From page 1 
dingler said. “students should be aware of when they can go and talk with ev­ery committee chair and the student body president and vice president, to make us more available for students.” 
The ticket also wants to es­tablish a weekly email to stu­dents, similar to the week@ nd emails, mccarthy said. They said they believe the email will help bolster at­tendance at campus events. 
“we definitely think we receive too many emails,” mccarthy said. “ … if we send it out every week on a sunday, students will come to expect it as time goes on. at least once a week, we want to say, ‘hey, here is what is going on,’ and have each co-chair report their events to the vice president. she will compile it and send it out.” 
The pair plans to improve the dining experience at the college, dingler said. 
“you have to eat,” dingler said. “café spes unica clos­es at [3 p.m.] and seeing as there have been more night classes, we think it would be beneficial for it to be open until 5 or 6, just so students have the chance to get din­ner, since a lot of times, a lot of education majors do not get a chance to eat because they are so busy every day.” 
as faculty and staff of the college play a large role in the everyday life of students on campus, the mccarthy­dingler ticket also hopes to implement a “Thank you week,” in which students show their appreciation for the work of staff and facul­ty, mccarthy said. 
“we have lots of big weeks here on campus, but one that we have neglected is thanking our faculty and staff for everything they do for us,” mccarthy said. “we really want to establish a week where we write cards and show our appreciation for all the work they do to make saint mary’s our home away from home.” 

similarly, the ticket hopes to continue mental health awareness week and to make online scheduling of coun­seling services available to students, dingler said. 
“we want these resources to be more accessible so that students know that they can go,” dingler said. 
Johnson, a business ad­ministration major, and prokup, a finance major, said they will focus on feasi­ble plans in their platform. 
“we wanted to include things that could actu­ally happen on campus,” Johnson said. “we wanted to be realistic with ourselves 
— a lot of things on our plat­form are things we know we can accomplish. They are things that we think are im­portant but also realistic.” 
The pair plans to address bullying on campus, prokup said. 
“There have been girls who have been harassed via door and leaving notes, so­cial media: it has become an excessive problem here on campus,” prokup said. “we want to create an anti-bullying program that has steps on what we need to do as students to prevent and protect our fellow students.” 
The program would be run through social media and campus-wide conversa­tions, prokup said. 
“we are fully committed to this because it is such a strong problem here that we really want to help combat,” prokup said. “we would like to hold other events to re­mind everyone that this is a safe campus where you can be yourself without having to face judgment.” 
Johnson and prokup plan to increase attendance at events through a regular email, Johnson said. 
“even as someone in­volved on campus, i never know when sports games are,” Johnson said. “i know i can probably look it up on the website, but if it is not directly presented to me, then i probably will be unaware and not go. … That is something we want to address.” 

The campaign also wants to promote communication between all aspects of the college, Johnson said. 
“communication is such an important things here, especially when it comes to communication between the student body, profes­sors, faculty, the board of Trustees,” Johnson said. “i think that the position of student body president has really lost that emphasis of being a representative of the student body, someone who has had frequent connec­tions with students, conver­sations with students. 
“it is sometimes sad to me that people don’t know who our [student body] presi­dent is,” she said. “i really want to address this next year — we want to know ev­eryone, we want everyone to know us.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




paid adverTisemenT 



Selma 
conTinued From page 1 
demanding, so they require a his­tory consultant.” 
coburn said she was hon­ored to work with hart on the documentary. 
“i am all about words, and she is all about images,” she said. “selma has literally brought us together. i had been researching catholic sisters for over a decade, and the work that catholic sisters have done historically, and wom­en’s history, is very important to me. looking at records of social justice among sisters, i saw a box labeled ‘selma,’ and i asked to see it.” 
unlike most women at the time, catholic sisters in the 1960s were gaining advanced degrees from prestigious universities, coburn said, and after the second vatican council, sisters began advocating for social justice. 
“as a woman and as a historian, that was very profound to me,” she said. 
martin luther king Jr.’s civil rights movement was “religious from the beginning,” Tardy said. 
“it was a moral issue as op­posed to a social issue,” he said. “i don’t think what people knew what it was like to see an african­american sister at the march. many people were outraged that they were involved with a social issue, rather than moral issue.” 
many sisters who came to selma were from the midwest, coburn said, while the bish­ops on the coasts were more conservative. 

“These bishops could take away catholic identity in a dio­cese. The bishop in st. Joseph ignored the telegraph from bish­ops on the coasts that said not to send sisters to selma. it was a very complicated interaction of power, race and religion,” she said. 
concluding the panel, Tardy said the fight for justice is an on­going process. 
“sometimes people get the sense that the church is perfect already — that king fixed these race problems already,” he said. “we win some, and we lose some for justice. Just because you see Ferguson happening and events in baltimore, it doesn’t mean that there hasn’t been gains. ... we all have a role to play. There are these stories out there like this story. we have to think about who is missing from the story. we have to dig and find these stories and find who’s missing, and then we can come together in solidarity.” 
vice president of the sdb angela bukur said the film and panel were designed to connect the topics of religion and race. 
“it’s such an important topic to talk about because many people don’t know about the social jus­tice of the nuns,” she said. 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 



on apple and security 
Zach Llorens 
photo editor 

on Feb. 16, apple inc. posted a letter on its website titled “a message to our customers.” 
This letter from apple ceo Tim cook directly addressed the mandate issued to apple from the Federal bureau of investigation. 
The mandate asked for apple to provide the Fbi with a backdoor to the iphone in response to the terror attack in san bernardino, california, last december. The Fbi is hoping, with help from apple, to find and gather information about the attack from the suspect’s encrypted iphone device. 
broken down into a few sections, the letter from the apple ceo discussed “The need for encryption,” “The san bernardino case,” “The Threat to data security” and “a dangerous precedent.” 
in short, cook stated that the govern­ment’s actions are directly and nega­tively impacting apple stakeholders, specifically their many customers whose privacy could be affected by the creation of such a backdoor. 
many prominent figures have officially supported cook and apple’s resistance in this issue. publicly, google and Facebook have defended apple in its desire to keep its encryption secure, while many other companies have been much quieter on the issue. 
at an individual level, one of the rela­tives of the victims of the san bernardino terrorist attack has been very outspoken in defending apple’s pro-encryption perspective. 
on the opposite end of the spectrum, Federal bureau of investigation director James coney has argued the bureau’s need for a break in encryption is quite narrow and it would be a national disser­vice if apple were to not comply with the Fbi’s mandate. 
microsoft founder bill gates has taken a slightly more “gray area” approach to this issue and said he hopes there is a healthy balance in policy with respect to national security and individual privacy. 
This issue is incredibly nuanced and has been the subject of a lot of contro­versy in the past week. 
For everyday consumers, this is an important issue as well. one instance of such a breach, as described by apple, could set a legal precedent of breaches of privacy of previously encrypted devices. on the other hand, the issue is vital to national security as the government uses the resources within its grasp to do its best to protect its citizens. 
no matter the resolution of the case, its result will have implications for years to come in the area of individual privacy and national security. 
Contact Zach Llorens at zllorens@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


We are called to do our part 
Armani Porter 
bridging the gap 

“Through clouds of breath and falling snow, one sees the towering skyscrapers of the inner harbor casting shade over the charles street homeless shel­ter. The only signs of the exorbitant lifestyles lived by those within the towers are the tire skid marks left by mercedes benz and corvettes, quickly speed­ing away so as not to be too wholly exposed to those who “didn’t work hard enough.” The weary eyes of those sleeping at bus stops and under bridges plead for help as their bodies sit stagnant, frail and frozen. This is not a cry for comfort, but a struggle for sur­vival. a fight to live, often unseen through the tinted windows of luxury cars. women, men, children. it makes no difference. The sharp wounds of poverty often leave so many crippled under the thumb of so­cietal oppression. unable to break the cycle, genera­tion after generation falls into a socioeconomic trap as gold-plated nets refuse to rescue them so as not to soil hard-earned commodities. perhaps the benefit of the doubt needs be given. it is often difficult to see the projects from the penthouse.” 
i wrote the passage above after walking the streets of downtown baltimore, maryland, earlier this win­ter. i was so shaken by what i saw, words could bare­ly describe the juxtaposition between the poor and affluent within the city. over the next few months, i found my mind wandering off, contemplating the economic thrall that so firmly encapsulates many within the united states. 
clearly this scene portrays an extreme case of in­come inequality, but after reading mimi Teixeira’s Jan. 27 column, “is income inequality that bad?” and the subsequent responses, i believe income inequality is a far more extensive issue than i ob­served on charles street. 
in no way do i wish to imply income inequality is completely avoidable. on the contrary, within a capitalist society, inequality will exist and will often stand alongside other ills such as infrastructure, education and healthcare inequality, to name just a few. once one comes to the realization inequalities exist within american society, it is quite clear to see the compounding effect that leads to intergenera­tional propagation. 
The argument for many then boils down to wheth­er liberal or conservative economic principles lessen the impact of these specific inequalities. i find these arguments highly inconsequential. certainly civil discourse in regards to political policy is necessary within any sort of government system. but there are more productive ways to address this issue. 
according to a pew research center study in oct. 2015, only 19 percent of people in the u.s. said they trust the government. with that being said, why do we trust the government to take care of income inequality? 
a hunger nonprofit, such as Feeding america, is able to distribute more than two billion pounds of food and grocery products per year. nine percent of those from low-income families graduate from a four-year college. however, 45 percent of alumni from kipp, an education nonprofit, obtain a college degree. 
These are but two examples of nonprofits making a difference and combating the effects of income inequality. 
one may be skeptical as to the efficiency with which non-governmental organizations can address income inequality. That is a legitimate concern. however, the efficiency of ngos cannot possibly be less than what is currently found on capitol hill. what is certain is the fact that poor education, nu­trition, infrastructure, etc. are directly tied to the continuance of economic disparities. institutions run by the community at large can and do address these issues. 
moral or ethical code is not necessarily annexed to any particular religion or even to religion itself, but as students of the university of notre dame, i find it necessary to mention a few of the themes of catholic social Teaching: life and dignity of the human person, option for the poor and vulnerable, The dignity of work and the rights of workers and solidarity. 
These themes are not specifically a call to action for governmental entities, but for us, the people. a monumental impact can be made on society when citizens work together to address an issue. mother Teresa said in regards to her life’s work amongst the poor, “i alone cannot change the world, but i can cast a stone across the waters to create many ripples.” 
government policies can have a great impact on income inequality. debate over the ways in which income inequality can be addressed on a federal and state level is necessary. however, the unparalleled thew that is within our hands far supersedes that which exists in washington. 
it may be an uphill battle, but at the end of the day, each one of us has the civic duty to end the cy­clical nature of generational inequalities. it does not matter if the net is gold-plated or otherwise symbol­ic of a lower class, we are all called to do our part. with this collaborativeffort, we will achieve a better functioning and more cohesive society and address inequalities in all forms. 
Armani “Niko” Porter is a sophomore living in Keough Hall majoring in neuroscience and behavior and theology. He can be reached at aporter2@nd.edu 
BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum  together in discussions concerning public policy issues. The viewpoints expressed in this article do not  necessarily reflect the opinion of BridgeND but are the individual opinions of the author. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter at  @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




The importance of philosophy 
John VanBerkum 
guest columnist 

if the core curriculum review committee had proposed taking away the theology requirement, it may as well have had one of the cranes from campus crossroads come to main building and rip off the statue of our lady from the dome and toss it into st. mary’s lake, where one day stu­dents would ask, ‘who is that lady all grown over with algae?’ 
we would no longer be a catholic university. 
given that we have kept our two-course theol­ogy requirement, it seems we do care about our catholic identity. 
but then why do we not implement what we have learned in those classes from the great thinkers and saints of our tradition? That is, why do we not recognize rigorous philosophy and theology function together? 
“Faith and reason are like two wings on which the human spirit rises to the contemplation of truth.” pope st. John paul ii wrote those words at the beginning of the encyclical “Fides et ratio.” as he went on to explain, faith and reason in a university setting are incarnated in the disci­plines of theology and philosophy. 
The whole catholic worldview relies just as much on philosophy as it does on theology. Thus, if each constitutes a different wing of the human spirit, then reducing our immersion in philoso­phy is akin to clipping our wings. we drop from the heights and fall into the water next to our lady. 
The draft report released by the committee explains well the rationale for having philosophy courses, and i believe such goals need more than one required class. 
how can we consider the meaning of life, the nature of the human being, the nature of truth, the good life or the problem of evil in a rigor­ous and systematic way suitable to a university student with just one introductory course? how can we understand augustine without plato or Thomas aquinas without aristotle? how can we see how the catholic faith is to be lived in the world without learning about the enormous changes that enlightenment thought brought with it? 
i do appreciate the attempt to draw catholic thought into the classroom through the integra­tion of various disciplines, but the classes men­tioned in the committee’s report that might fall into the catholicism and the disciplines (cad) category are not philosophy, making a choice between the two arbitrary. 
art history or a catholic approach to finance is not necessarily philosophy. The cad course looks fantastically catholic on the outside, but in reality it undermines the integral relation­ship between philosophy and theology when it replaces a philosophy course. 
i support one integrated class choice as in­cluded under the six required liberal arts cours­es. why not make that integrated course the cad course and leave two required philosophy courses? 
philosophy acts as the mediator between the sciences and other disciplines and theology. philosophy asks the questions that theology an­swers. without hard and important questions, theology is not satisfying. 
For example, if we want to know about the world itself, we go to science. To ask questions about why that world of which science speaks exists at all, we go to philosophy. if we want an answer to that question, we go to theology. we cannot cut out that middle step: The questioning that is intrinsic to our human nature. 
indeed, science used to be called natural phi­losophy, because the natural world was one way of elevating the mind to the good, true and beau­tiful, an end that is shown to be a relationship rather than an intellectual ideal in theology. philosophy thus brings science into contact with theology. 
we should not exist in a dualistic university that separates the sciences from the humanities. keeping a two-course philosophy requirement assures this separation will not be the case. 
philosophy courses help us build the founda­tion and provide tools and methods for bring­ing other disciplines together. once readied, we can then implement such lessons in some kind of integrated class outside of the two required philosophy courses. one required course sim­ply is not enough time to adequately construct a foundation. 
modernity has turned us away from phi­losophy, turning our attention to science and materialistic answers to questions about our experience and the world. 
we keep theology because we believe it to be true, but all too often we treat it merely as anoth­er discipline. we have to understand philosophy as one of the two wings that raises the soul to contemplation. if one is chopped off or maimed, we are not going to flourish. 
we should listen to John paul ii. not only is he a saint, but he is also a better philosopher than you or i may ever be. his life manifests that inti­mate union between faith and reason, between theology and philosophy, so we should learn from his example and take it to heart. 
John VanBerkum is a senior in O’Neill Hall. He can be reached at jvanberk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Another reason to revoke Cosby’s degree 
pull bill cosby’s honorary degree? in a word, yes. do it now. do it yesterday. 
i won’t belabor the well-known disgusting facts of the current allegations, which on their own merit pulling that degree. 
i want to take this opportunity to highlight another lesser-known incident no one at notre dame should ever forget. The incident illustrates what a despicable person bill cosby is. 
For those who do not know the name dean brown, i will provide a little background. brown, a member of the class of 1989, was an all-american football player at notre dame. however, he was much more than that to any­one who ever knew him. his nickname was “big happy,” and he was one of the most well-liked, well-respected and genuine people to ever come through notre dame. brown overcame a great deal to make it to notre dame and become the great man he was. 
bill cosby was on campus in 1989 to speak to a group of about 50 african-american students at graduation. it was a joyous time for everyone to celebrate the hard work of the last four years. cosby took that opportunity to bring brown up on stage and berate him for his gpa. upon hear­ing of brown’s 2.5 gpa, cosby angrily said, “2.5 is okay if you have a mental disorder. you should be ashamed of yourself. you should have worked harder.” 
he went on to berate brown to tears. The story is well-documented in the media, and you can read about it in more detail via a simple google search. For the record, cosby is a college dropout. 
notre dame should have pulled cosby’s degree years ago solely for the way he treated a member of our family. what has come to light regarding that man over the last year is more than enough to remove the degree and remove his association with our university. 
rest in peace “big happy.” you were a true notre dame man and 1,000 times the man cosby ever was or will be. 
Tom Jennings 
class of 1988 Feb. 19 


do not be too hasty to pull cosby’s degree 
i would like to suggest a simple solution to the question of bill cosby’s honorary degree. 
if there is ever a court finding, either civil or criminal, that determines cosby engaged in be­havior for which a notre dame employee would be fired or a student expelled, then it would be ap­propriate for the university to formally consider revoking the degree. indeed, it may be difficult to justify not revoking it in this case. 
until there is a court finding, however, revok­ing the degree would amount to declaring a man guilty based on a trial-by-news-media. accepted standards like “beyond a reasonable doubt,” “preponderance of evidence” and the right to cross-examine would not be met. 
as damaging and appalling as the deposition testimony is, there remain many gray-area ques­tions to which we cannot know the answers. 
what else is in the parts of the deposition that were not released? what is the full story of what really happened? how much of it was consensual? why did the original d.a. decide not to prosecute? 
only a court would have access to all the infor­mation and be able to ensure american standards of fairness and justice are met. and what would we do if, in spite of everything, a court eventually determined cosby is not guilty? 
a decision to wait until there is a court find­ing would also provide the beginning of a policy framework for dealing with any future situations involving honorary degree recipients. 
it would set the bar high, but it would draw a very clear line so that, in the rare cases when the line is crossed, the university’s considered re­sponse could be both well-founded and defensible. 
Peter Jeffery 

michael p. grace ii professor of medieval studies Feb. 19 

By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

2013 was an amazing year for the disco-style revival in pop music. highly influ­ential French electronic duo daft punk boldly proclaimed their new sonic alli­ance with disco in their highly educated and homage-driven “random access memories;” Justin Timberlake released the meticulously orchestrated two-part “20/20 experience;” buoyant bassline-driven al­bums popped up from first-time artists rhye and alunageorge, sexualizing the beat with projects “woman” and “body music,” respectively. disclosure swept grammy nominations (although the wins obligatorily went to daft punk) with their in-trigue-ridden haunted house debut “settle.” producers danger mouse (as part of broken bells with lead vocalist James mercer) and pharrell followed up with the trend in early 2014 with their respective albums “after the disco” (another orchestral-string driven project) and “girl.” This renaissance of disco attitude in electronic production has not left us alone — it is omnipresent in our bars, parties and running mixes. dance hits “uptown Funk” and kanye west’s “Faded” 

Matthew Macke 
scene writer 

sportswriter bill simmons has spit-balled the idea that the nba mvp trophy should weigh differently according to the significance of the accomplishments achieved by the recipient. For example, michael Jordan’s 1996 mvp would weigh 40 pounds, while derrick rose’s 2011 award would only weigh 10. it’s an inter­esting idea — trying to more clearly dem­onstrate the historical significance of a player’s season in a way a simple title can’t. 
what if we applied the same idea to pop-culture awards? 
would the 2000 academy award for best picture, awarded to “gladiator,” weigh as much as the one from 1943 awarded to “casablanca”? 
more recently, how would the scales tilt if we put kendrick lamar’s album “To pimp a butterfly” on one side and Taylor swift’s “1989” on the other? 
according to the online review aggrega­tor metacritic, “Tpab” was the best album of the last 10 years. “1989” didn’t even crack the top 40 best-reviewed albums of 2014. last week, kendrick lamar walked into staples center, the site of the grammys, with 11 nominations — the second most all-time behind the king of pop himself. he walked out with a respectable five awards, sweeping the rap categories and throwing in a win for best music video, an award he shared with Taylor swift for their work on “bad blood.” but it was swift who left carrying the album of the year trophy. 
off his newest release, “The life of pablo,” now replace spots on our playlists where gotye or maroon 5 would have been seen in 2012. 
but even before its full realization in 2013, select artists had been pushing dance back onto the dance floor, which had previously been monopolized by over-sexed hip-hop and coy pop one-offs in the late 2000s. artists like Flo rida and lmFao have been innovators of disco-pop since 2009, when the black eyed peas and lady gaga still dominated charts with songs like “boom boom pow” and “poker Face,” respectively. if you’re glad we’re listening to absolute grooves like “cake by The ocean” now in­stead, thank lmFao. 
another one of the artists who is also owed our thanks for this emerging trend of hedonistic, feel-good basslines is French producer breakbot. a child of the early ’80s, breakbot only slightly pre-dates the producers mentioned above and was one of the first to bring phrases like “nu-disco” and “electro-funk” into the vernacular of, at least, other observer scene staff writers. his breakout single, “baby i’m yours,” will have you finding ways to subtly move your body in public spaces, dreaming of dancing 
This isn’t a Taylor swift burn piece — who didn’t love “1989”? — but that deci­sion does pose a question: what are these awards actually awarding? 
The grammys and academy awards have very similar voting processes, rely­ing on votes cast by undisclosed “industry insiders,” and both claim to award quality without regard for popularity. This year, one snubbed a powerful, critically-adored album by a black artist, and the other once again demonstrated a blatant lack of diver­sity. clearly, something is wrong here. 
with all the talk surrounding the oscars and their lack of nominations for diverse actors, there were a fair number of people within the industry arguing that “white­washing” reflected a lack of quality work by artists of color. british actor michael caine supported this notion, saying, “you can’t say ‘i’m going to vote for him, he’s not very good, but he’s black, i’ll vote for him.’” 
if these accolades are truly as objective as they are purported to be, why don’t the nominees and winners consistently reflect the best each respective industry has to offer? 
every year there are perceived snubs, according to both fans and performers, which shouldn’t be the case in an objec­tive ranking. an objective ranking should definitely not be accused of racial bias. yet last year, there was an uproar when the film “selma” received heaps of praise from critics, but neither its black star, david oyelowo, nor its black female director, ava duvernay, received a nomination. 
on monday, the usc annenberg school for communication and Journalism with people with whom you’ve shared clean but clandestine conversations and always wanted to get to know better. it features a groove so infectious and seasonal affective disorder-dispelling that it was taken and smacked almost entirely in the middle of “Treasure” by bruno mars, which was re­leased in, you guessed it, may 2013. 

it is important to understand both breakbot’s demonstrated ability to release phenomenal tracks as well as his genius and influence in nu-disco so that we can also understand how big of a letdown breakbot’s sophomore attempt is. released Feb. 5, “still waters” is a collection of 13 songs that is at times admittedly very danceable but never with the continuity or of the caliber we know breakbot to be capable of. instead of looking forward and trailblazing new sounds and attitudes, “still waters” instead looks around at its best moments and back­pedals far too often. borrowing the exact same synthesizers to motivate his tracks as disclosure and alunageorge, the biggest difference between their albums and “still waters” is that the latter makes me want to turn on the former, not get up and dance. he takes clichéd practices from daft punk: channel filters to make a track sound like it 
released a comprehensive study of diversi­ty in film and television. The results aren’t pretty, but they are eye-opening. men out-represented women by at least two-to-one in all positions — in front of the camera, behind it and on the executive board. only 
28.3 percent of shows featured “underrep­resented speaking characters.” of the u.s. population as a whole, “underrepresented” peoples make up 37.9 percent. Film was always the worst offender of this racial and gender discrepancy, beating out both traditional Tv and streaming services. all in all, very few studios in film or television achieved a rating of “fully inclusive” for even one category. 
so what does the report have to do with this week’s oscars? doesn’t that data point to a systemic problem, one that an all-white list of nominees for major awards showcases? i mean, the proportion of vic­torious black actors is commensurate with their percentage within the u.s. popula­tion, so the academy awards have done a pretty good job given the circumstances. right? nope. 
what if we weighed cultures them­selves? “non-hispanic black” americans make up just 12.2 percent of the popula­tion according to the 2010 census. barely more than one in 10. 
but culture is not quantitative. The cul­tural impact of african-americans goes way beyond the size of their population. From athletes to music to fashion, every aspect of american culture is influenced by “black culture.” The same goes for “hispanic culture” and “asian culture.” The same goes for “lgbTQ culture.” 
is being played underwater, soft and tinny auto-tunes to inspire both intimacy and iso­lation, songs started with warped and tun­neled keyboard riffs until brought to life by a jogging bassline. in retrospect, the album appears to be about one-third an absolute duplicate of daft punk’s “discover.” 
not only that, but breakbot returns an aesthetic that is lyrically reminiscent of akon: flirtatious yet lonely lines that aban­don the confidence and sex appeal of all that disco stands for. There’s nothing new here 
— if you don’t give it a listen, you won’t miss anything that wasn’t said or done better in 2013. 
Contact Thom Behrens at                      tbehren1@nd.edu 


“Still Waters” 
Breakbot 
Label: Ed Banger Tracks: “Arrested,” “Get Lost” If you like: Daft Punk 

portions and ratios cannot and, more im­portantly, should not define the limits of cultural significance. 
This is why the academy awards and grammys are tarnishing their respec­tive industries. They fail to recognize the weight of the cultures that have helped make them what they are today. 
The annenberg report outlines a few “solutions for change,” which are basi­cally race and gender quotas for writers and directors. ultimately, though, this is a systemic problem, one that demands more than quotas and more diverse voting bodies. both the film and record industries need to start by rewarding racial diversity and encouraging discussions of race and gender. They need to do more to motivate and sponsor young, underrepresented writers, directors and executives, start­ing in college, if not earlier. They need to support diversity-focused film festivals that show off the best that non-white, non-straight and non-male filmmakers and actors have to offer. They need to act before popular opinion forces them to act. 
it is time for hollywood to do more than offer lip service to diversity, to do more than nominate token diversity pieces. 
it’s time to fix things. 
in all likelihood, the nba won’t incor­porate simmons’s idea for heavier trophies to denote historical significance, but when you watch the academy hand out oscars on sunday, remember that those awards could have carried a lot more weight. 


Contact Matthew Macke at      mmacke@nd.edu 

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 




WANTED 

Need Tutor(s) high school biology & Algebra 2. Tutoring may continue summer & beyond. Prefer our house, 10-15 min­utes from ND, but open to other locations. Contact Linda at lwaelchli@datacruz.com 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: create opportunities instead of waiting for something to come along. do what you do best and make things work for you. you are a pro when it comes to the art of manipulation, and you can achieve whatever you put your mind to. share your vision and open your mind to unique possibilities, and you will achieve success. your numbers are 9, 13, 16, 22, 34, 37, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): expect to face competition. instead of overreacting, try to do more, complain less and outmaneuver whoever challenges you. once you establish your position, you will be able to manipulate things in your favor. don’t be afraid to do things differently. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take on new pastimes or join a group that will bring you in touch with interesting people, projects or causes. The experiences you encounter today will prompt you to head in a new direction. let your actions be your voice.     

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): it’s what you do that will make a difference to the way people view you. if you leave a good impression on others, you will prosper. being detailed and dedicated to reaching your goals should be your priority. avoid being indulgent. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you will draw an audience if you speak up and share your ideas and concerns. The knowledge and experience others share with you will help you make a decision that will affect how you live. someone will offer something unexpected. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): your charm will entertain some and impress others. changes to existing partnerships will turn out to be to your advantage. you can secure your position, but don’t do so by spending money you do not have. avoid bribery. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): emotions will surface, leaving you in a vulnerable position. deal with matters swiftly and move on. Turn the tables by using the situation to inform others of your plans. The response you receive will confirm your suspicions. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): offering to compromise will help you get what you want in the end. love is in the stars, and travel will not only be entertaining, but educational. getting together with friends or pursuing a hobby will lead to new beginnings. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look for the most unlikely path to take and you will outmaneuver anyone who is trying to get in your way. make a unique change at home that will encourage you to explore a creative dream you want to pursue.          


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be the captain and get your plans underway. look for adventure, but stay within your means. avoiding debt will ease your stress and ensure that whatever you do will be enjoyable. romance doesn’t have to be costly.   


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll be in control, making it easy for you to manipulate situations that will contribute positively to your new endeavors. contracts, settlements and investments will turn in your favor. aggressive action will pay off. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): look for the perfect job or a partnership with someone who will contribute what you need in order for you to accomplish your dream. your ability to let others do what they do best will lead to your own success. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): play to win. revel in any challenge that comes your way. let your intuition and uniqueness help you conquer whatever you set out to do. evaluate relationships and set new guidelines to ensure that everything runs according to plan. 

Birthday Baby: you are creative and passionate. you are intuitive and intelligent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


PERSONAL 
LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
Some folks are born made to wave the flag, Ooh, they’re red, white and blue and when the band play. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 



Ortiz deserves criticism, not love 


Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
There is perhaps nothing more unpalatable in sports than farewell tours. yes, a statement that bold can be at least somewhat attrib­uted to recency bias, given the seemingly never-ending and excruciatingly tiresome onslaught of coverage con­cerning kobe bryant’s final season. but other retirement circuits over the past few years — mariano rivera and derek Jeter come to mind 
— have been comparably obnoxious. 
so, when ben padanilam suggested yesterday in this space that david ortiz, who will be playing his last sea­son in 2016, deserves fanfare similar to that of other ac­complished athletes who announced retirements prior to their final seasons in recent years, he un­masked a crippling appre­hension implanted in me in mid-november when ortiz announced this upcoming campaign would be the end of the line for him. 
simply put, the 2016 mlb season should not at all be about david ortiz’s retire­ment. That ortiz will be hanging it up after the year should not be a consistent headline-generator but rath­er a mere footnote from now until october. 
kobe bryant’s unneces­sary closing ceremony, which somehow still has nearly two more months to go, has seemed nothing short of incessant, but a farewell circuit in the nba pales in comparison to the length of one in baseball, as the mlb’s schedule nearly doubles the number of regu­lar season games. 
Furthermore, while it remains slightly confound­ing to me how bryant, who statistically has made an already laughably bad team worse for much of the season and has a his­tory that includes (but is not limited to) feuding with teammates and other mem­bers of the lakers organiza­tion, marital infidelity and a sexual assault settlement, can be revered nonstop for months — at least kobe’s accomplishments on the court objectively put him in an elite category with some of the best to ever play his sport. The same cannot be said for ortiz, who sta­tistically is by no means a surefire hall of Famer, espe­cially given his one-dimen­sional value as a designated hitter. 
in addition to not having an unequivocally convinc­ing statistical case that might possibly excuse an excessive farewell celebra­tion, ortiz’s positive 2003 ped test, which coinciden­tally aligned with a shift in his career from an average hitter to a star, should raise questions about how deserv­ing he is of being celebrated at all. while the failed test has been ignored consider­ably in the casual fan and media’s perception of ortiz recently, the test alone could extinguish any shot of him getting elected to the hall of Fame in the future. 
despite this, i have come to accept that big papi will almost undoubtedly be giv­en a significant amount of coverage in his final season. There will never be a season in which the boston red sox don’t get substantial media attention. ortiz’s contribu­tions — tainted or not — have been an integral part of their historic success that got them that attention. 
That doesn’t mean i won’t be cringing every step of the way though. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | kenTucky 78, alabama 53 


kentucky pulls away from alabama for win 
Associated Press 

leXingTon, ky. — Jamal murray scored 23 points, Tyler ulis added 19 points and 10 assists and no. 16 kentucky pulled away from alabama for a 78-53 victory Tuesday night. 
senior alex poythress re­turned after a five-game absence because of a right knee injury to come off the bench and score 14 points, helping the wildcats (21­7, 11-4 southeastern conference) bounce back from saturday’s overtime loss at Texas a&m. 
poythress’ return was needed for a kentucky squad that played with­out starting forward derek 
willis,  who  sprained  his  
right ankle  against  the  
aggies.  

isaiah briscoe scored 10 points and marcus lee grabbed 12 rebounds for the wildcats, who limited the crimson Tide (16-11, 7-8) to 35 percent shooting and handed them a sec­ond straight loss. kentucky outscored alabama 40-22 inside, outrebounded the crimson Tide 41-29 and made 22 of 28 free throws. 
retin obasohan scored 29 points for the crimson Tide. 
isaac humphries had four points and four rebounds in his first start as kentucky maintained its one-game conference lead and swept alabama. 
The wildcats certainly needed a lift after the a&m loss that ended on Tyler davis’ buzzer-beating put-back — a game-winning play that followed a con­troversial technical foul on humphries for spiking the ball cost them the game. 
humphries was immedi­ately apologetic about his gaffe, but teammates and especially wildcats fans seemed to have forgiven the 17-year-old australian as he was introduced to loud cheers for his first career start. grabbing a career-high 12 rebounds certainly boosted the 7-footer’s cause for this game, especially with the 6-9 willis on the bench with a boot on his foot. 
The wildcats got another lift physically and emotion­ally when poythress en­tered in the early minutes. he quickly contributed two baskets and two free throws to get kentucky started toward a 15-8 lead as it benefited from the crimson Tide’s cold shooting start. 
alabama regrouped to get within two points but the high-scoring obasohan (15 points) was the only one hit­ting shots in the first half as the crimson Tide made just 26 percent from the field and went scoreless for near­ly 7 minutes. Their 33-12 halftime deficit could have been worse if kentucky (38 percent) hadn’t also cooled off. 
The wildcats offset that by making 10 of 13 free throws and outscoring alabama 18-8 inside. 
kentucky steadily pulled away in the second half, leading by as many as 24 points with 4:46 remaining. alabama first-year coach avery Johnson couldn’t find much scoring help for obasohan other than Justin coleman, who had eight points. 


Tip-ins 
alabama made just 1 of 16 shots during one first-half stretch. .... The crimson Tide fell to 4-3 against ranked teams this season. 
kentucky: ulis has re­corded double-digit assists in four of six games. 

NBA | washingTon 109, new orleans 89 


wall gets triple-double as wizards beat pelicans 
Associated Press 

washingTon — John wall had 16 points, 12 re­bounds, and 11 assists, help­ing the washington wizards beat anthony davis and the new orleans pelicans 109-89 on Tuesday night. 
marcin gortat had 21 points and 11 rebounds for washington, which pulled away in the second half of its season-high fourth straight home win. Jared dudley scored 18 points on six 3-pointers and helped hold davis in check after his mon­ster game at detroit. 
wall was 5 for 17 from the field in his second triple-double of the season and fifth of his career. he also had two steals in 31 1/2 minutes. 
davis grabbed 20 more re­bounds, but was held to just nine points on 3-for-9 shoot­ing. The all-star forward had 59 points and 20 rebounds in a 111-106 victory against the pistons on sunday. 
Jrue holiday had 20 points and seven assists for new orleans, which had won four of five to remain on the fringe of the western conference playoff hunt. ryan anderson scored 16 points on 7-for-11 shooting. 
leading 54-51, the wizards opened the third quarter with a 14-0 run. 
dudley hit a 3-pointer, fed gortat for a layup and nailed another 3 from the wing on consecutive trips. 
Three possessions later, dudley struck again for his sixth 3. The crowd let out a collective groan when he missed from beyond the arc on the wizards’ next trip, but otto porter rebounded and fed wall, whose 3-pointer from the top of the key made it 68-51. 
new orleans was with­out starting center omer asik, who sprained his ankle saturday against the pistons. 

He could have scored more 
coach alvin gentry was asked before the game what he liked best about davis’ 59-point effort on sunday. 
“he’s still too doggone unselfish, to be honest with you, sometimes,” a chuckling gentry said. “i said ‘i’m going to have to tell you, these games don’t come along all the time, and you’ve got to take full advantage of them when they do.’ but that’s just who he is.” 


Tip-ins 
pelicans: gentry said asik will miss about two weeks. alexis ajinca started in place of asik. . it was the first time this season davis played over 20 minutes and didn’t score in double figures. 
wizards: g gary neal (sore right leg) was a late scratch and missed his sixth straight game. 


Up next 
pelicans: host oklahoma on Thursday. 
wizards: at chicago on wednesday. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Bouts 
conTinued From page 16 
series of swings from espinoza brought the sophomore to his knees. espinoza remained patient and capitalized on his opportunities to land left hooks. The match concluded with yoder pushing the senior to the ropes, but espinoza was declared the winner by split decision. 

Alex “El Cadejo” Alcantara def. Steven Ramos 
alcantara, a junior from alumni, began the fight in dominant fashion, executing quick, short jabs to the body and head of ramos. ramos, a sophomore from Zahm, recov­ered early in the second round, pushing alcantara on the ropes for the second time in the match. To close the second round and gain momentum, alcantara landed a massive left hook. The third round kicked off with both fighters trading missed punches and culminated with a convincing right jab from alcantara to the head of ramos. ramos slowed down in the final round, leav­ing alcantara room to take ad­vantage offensively. alcantara advanced to the final, winning by unanimous decision. 

152 Pounds 
Timothy McDermott def. Alexander “LaFotre 3” Jones 
Jones, a Fort wayne, indiana, native and off-cam­pus graduate student, started the fight determined to gain an edge offensively by strik­ing mcdermott with quick punches. mcdermott, a fresh­man from o’neill, was forced to move around the ring with the bursts of energy from Jones. mcdermott came out more prepared in the second round, using his long reach to connect on blows to Jones. both fighters were patient in the first two rounds and more focused on their defensive ap­proaches. Jones landed a left hook on mcdermott to kick off the third round, but he was unable to land most of his oth­er punches. mcdermott closed out the match strong, put­ting Jones on the ropes with a jolt of offensive firepower. mcdermott took the fight by split decision. 

Kieran Carroll def. Austin “The Sleeper” Cartier 
both fighters started the bout with a high level of ener­gy and intensity and matched each other blow for blow. however, as the first round be­gan to draw to a close, carroll, a senior from duncan, was able to force cartier into the corner and land several strong jabs. at the start of the second round, cartier, a junior from dillon, landed some punches of his own, but as the round went on, carroll regained con­trol of the fight. both fighters were visibly exhausted as the round closed out. in the third round, carroll maintained control of the bout and landed a shot that forced the referee to momentarily stop the fight and check on cartier. carroll was awarded the win by unan­imous decision. 

157 Pounds 
Patrick “Starsky” Lawler def. Michael “Greasy” Grasso 
as was the case with each of the other semifinal contests, the first round of the bout be­tween lawler, a sophomore from Fisher, and grasso, a senior from stanford, start­ed with the fighters match­ing each other blow for blow. lawler landed a few more punches than grasso, and the exchange ended when the two fighters got tied up. both fight­ers attempted to land shots to his opponent’s head through­out the second round, and they still had plenty of energy as the third round began. it was in the third that lawler landed a big shot that sent grasso spinning, and lawler followed it up with a several other blows that appeared to give him the edge. in the end, the judges awarded lawler the win by split decision. 


Sean Himel def. Chip Blood 
in its entirety, the bout between himel, a senior in duncan, and blood, a junior in sorin, was marked by strat­egy as opposed to aggres­sion and intensity. The first round saw only a few big shots landed, as himel was on the attack for most of the round. blood, however, was able to defend himself well, as he stayed low and forced himel to extend his reach. The sec­ond round saw more frequent blows exchanged between the two fighters. himel landed a few strong shots and even lost his momentum and won forced blood into the ropes for by unanimous decision. a brief period of time before blood forced a tie up. The third 175 Pounds round saw more of the same, as the two fighters got tied up Jack “Not the Guy From on a number of occasions, and Lost” Shepard def. Michael blood landed especially strong “Muscle Hamster” Krecek punches as the fight closed out. right from the start, krecek however, himel was awarded came after shepard with ev­the win by split decision. erything he had. not intimi­

dated by the size difference, 163 Pounds morrissey freshman krecek 
caught the bigger knott se-Ryan Chestnut def. Joe nior off guard, and shepard Quinones was forced on the back foot 
chestnut, a kenilworth, for most of the first round as illinois, native and sopho-his counterpart chased him more from o’neill, started off around the ring. shepard did the fight on the ropes and ap-manage to land some hits, peared to be in trouble, but but the “muscle hamster” his quick jabs to escape set lived up to his nickname as the tone for the remainder he pounded shepard on sev­of the fight. The first round eral occasions. The second saw both fighters deliver solid round started similarly, as blows with chestnut getting shepard tried to use his length in the last strong jab as the to gain an early advantage, round closed out. each round but krecek continued his bold successively started out more strategy of charging right into physically than the last, and his opponent. it looked like it chestnut appeared to be get-would pay off once again until ting stronger as the match shepard landed some heavy went on. Quinones got in his hooks that hit his opponent fair share of powerful shots as hard. The senior was looking well, but he took a shot to the for more, but the bell sounded head and had to be examined to save krecek and set up a de­by the official late in the third. cisive third round. both fight-chestnut was awarded the win ers went for it all in the final by unanimous decision. round, as krecek continued to 
try and get close to counteract Pat “Paddy Cakes” Shea shepard’s length. They traded def. Rudy Bernard punch after punch, but krecek 
it took some time before was able to get the senior on any big hits were delivered the ropes and land some good in the 163-pound semifinal, hits to take the advantage. but once it got going, shea shepard was not done, how-was on the attack and never ever. Just before the bell, he looked back. Throughout the managed to string together first round, the senior from a flurry of blows that caught keough delivered stronger and the freshman on his back foot, more frequent blows than his but once again krecek was counterpart, bernard. as the saved by the bell as the fight second round started, shea ended. The fight was awarded got in multiple good hits to to shepard by split decision. bernard’s head and actually forced the referee to pause the Zach “Bedrock” Flint def. fight so bernard could be at-Wes Chamblee tended to medically. despite The fight began with a game some more breaks, shea never of cat and mouse, as both 
paid adverTisemenT 
fighters sought to take an early advantage. chamblee, a law student, had some huge swings, but the siegfried se­nior Flint was able to duck and dodge his way out of danger. The round ended with nei­ther fighter seizing the ad­vantage. round two started in much the same way, and chamblee came out swinging, but Flint continued his eva­sive maneuvers while land­ing several good hits himself. halfway through the round, chamblee finally managed to string together some big hits that had the crowd roaring, and Flint was doing his best to hang on. The bell sound­ed with chamblee seizing a clear advantage heading into the final round. Flint came out with a fury to start round three though, and it payed off. he managed to land several big hits on his opponent who was clearly tiring after chas­ing Flint around for so long. chamblee did his best to hang on, but Flint kept coming and controlled the round, earning him the victory by unanimous decision. 

182 Pounds 
Eamon “Gravy” McOsker def. Jack “Hammer” Corrigan 
round one started with mcosker seizing the early lead, as the Fisher senior quickly asserted his dominance with some early punches. corrigan was on the back foot and looked for an opening, but his opponent landed some big hooks to keep the off-campus junior at bay. corrigan came out with an early flurry to start the second round and man­aged to get mcosker on the ropes early. but the senior in gold used his length to stay the assault, and as the round went on, he managed to get right 
see bouTs PAGE 13 





Bouts 
conTinued From page 12 
back in it with some strong hits. corrigan was far from done and landed some punch­es of his own to set up a great finale. The final round was back and forth, as both fight­ers came out swinging. neither man was backing down, as first mcosker would land a hit, then corrigan. but the ju­nior clearly was tiring, and mcosker pounced before the round ended to score several good jabs to the head as the bell sounded, and mcosker was declared the victor by unanimous decision. 

Brian “Cheese” Willis def. Patrick Rahill 
The fight began in riveting fashion as both men started strong. willis, a duncan senior, managed to land some early hits, but rahill came storm­ing back with some punches of his own. willis kept using his right hook, but rahill man­aged to dodge several and land some body shots of his own. The bell sounded with both fighters’ neck and neck. round two started in much the same way, as both big men traded punches left and right, but at last willis managed to land a big right jab that put rahill off balance. rahill, a senior from st. edward’s, tried to get back into the fight, but as the round came to a close, willis got him on the ropes and landed several big hits to take a firm advan­tage heading into round three. rahill tried desperately to fight back, but once again, willis trapped him on the ropes and landed hit after hit. rahill at­tempted to hang on, but as the round dragged on, his opponent in gold started to pull away with some good combos. by the time the bell sounded, the result was clear, as willis won the fight by unanimous decision. 

191 Pounds 
Jack Considine def. Jack “Irish Lion” Ryan 
both fighters traded punch­es early in round one, as each looked to set the tone for the rest of the fight. but as it drew on, considine slowly eased into the lead and kept ryan on the back foot for the ma­jority of the round. he landed several good hits on his oppo­nent and didn’t let the knott junior use his length to his advantage. The second round began with considine pick­ing up right where he left off, as the off-campus junior in blue scored several good hits to both the head and body. ryan looked for an opening, but he had trouble getting a rhythm going with his coun­terpart dictating the fight. ryan came out swinging in the third round, but considine was having none of it. he con­tinued to steer ryan around the ring and got him in the corner on several different oc­casions, where he was able to string some good hits togeth­er. it was tough for ryan to get anything, and the smaller ju­nior proved to be the victor by unanimous decision when the fight ended. 


Jason “Downtown” Ellinwood def. Courtney “Court-of-Law” Laidlaw 
laidlaw, a law student, came out swinging as the fight be­gan, but ellinwood, a Fisher senior, was able to dodge the blows. as the round drew on, ellinwood started to land some punches of his own. not to be outdone, however, laidlaw managed to score some good hooks to keep the senior at bay, and the first round ended a tightly con­tested opening. The second round started with both fight­ers looking for an opening. ellinwood used his length to get some punches in, but the 

paid adverTisemenT 


quicker laidlaw tried to come inside and land some big hits of his own. both fighters went for it all in the final round, but gradually ellinwood’s length proved to be the deciding ad­vantage. laidlaw could not manage to get inside and land a big hit, and so the senior con­tinued to keep his adversary at bay as he started to string punches together on his tir­ing opponent. ellinwood was declared the winner by unani­mous decision. 

207 Pounds 

Montana “The Louisianimal” Giordano def. Chris “Mantequilla” Quiroz 
The match was a fast-paced one, as giordano, a freshman in morrissey, got off to a quick, aggressive start. his long reach allowed him to attack Quiroz, the graduate student, from afar. both fighters were very mobile, but giordano ap­peared to have the upper hand, as he was always the first to go on the offensive. The second round appeared more evenly matched, as both fighters were able to defend themselves well. Quiroz forced giordano to move around the ring more than he had in the first round. giordano’s strategy appeared to be to aim for Quiroz’s head as much as possible to force him to focus solely on defense. The final round was extremely fast-paced in comparison to the other two, with both fight­ers taking on an aggressive strategy. although Quiroz’s jabs were more impactful than they had been in previous rounds, giordano effectively defended himself. he was able to turn small defensive jabs into an offensive tactic to knock Quiroz off balance, and giordano won by split decision. 

Pat Gordon def. Joe “The Hash Slinging Slasher” Stevens 
sophomore keough resi­dent, gordon got off to an ag­gressive start right off that bat and was able to maintain the offensive upper-hand throughout the fight. every attempt stevens, an o’neill sophomore, made to attack was knocked away by a gordon counter. gordon landed im­pactful punches to stevens’ head, forcing stevens to squat to avoid them. even when backed into a corner, gordon maintained his aggressive ap­proach, using strong, strategic punches to the upper torso and head to regain his mo­mentum. stevens appeared tired in the second round, and gordon took advantage. he forced stevens to attempt to attack first and was able to catch him mid-punch with strong combinations to the face. gordon remained com­pletely in control in the final round, as he was able to catch stevens against the ropes and move him around the ring on multiple occasions, culmi­nating in gordon’s victory by unanimous decision. 
Heavyweight 


Matt “Here Comes the” Boomer def. Jack “Beans” Oros 
both fighters started the first round slowly, but boomer, an off-campus se­nior, made the first offensive move against sorin sopho­more oros. his forceful ap­proach led him to attack oros’ head consistently, and he was able to defend him­self simultaneously. oros’ approach was to stay low and attack boomer’s torso. boomer became more mobile in the second round, mov­ing around the ring, causing oros to whiff multiple times. oros ended the round with his first strong combination of the fight by landing punch­es to boomer’s chin and face. boomer appeared to tire slightly in the final round, even being backed into a cor­ner at one point. however, his aggressive approach allowed him to escape. boomer com­pletely regained control of the round and collected the win over oros by unanimous decision. 


Fr. Nathan “The Exorcist” 
O’Halloran  def.  Matt  
“The  Manic  Hispanic”  
Borowiak  

The fight was a tale of two strategies, as theology doc­toral candidate o’halloran’s strategic approach went up against borowiak’s brute force. o’halloran made the first move, but borowiak, a senior living in o’neill, made an immediate aggressive re­taliation. borowiak stayed low throughout the round, trying to attack o’halloran’s torso and prevent him from defending himself. The ta­bles turned completely in the second round, which once again got off to a slow start. borowiak made the first move but could not land his punch. o’halloran was able to make a more vis­ible impact, despite being knocked off balance, and his varied combination of hits to the head and torso forced borowiak to remain alert and defensive. borowiak’s ag­gressive approach proved to be his downfall in the final round. although he was able to trap o’halloran in a cor­ner, o’halloran strategically allowed borowiak to back away slightly before trying to defend himself. he was able to spring from the cor­ner and attack in his most aggressive offensive show­ing of the match. borowiak fell back against the ropes, giving o’halloran the mo­mentum he needed to land a solid punch on borowiak’s head just as the final bell rang. This was enough to se­cure o’halloran’s win by split decision. 
Contact Alex Ellyin at  aellyin@nd.edu, Alex Bender at abender@nd.edu, Tobias Hoonhout at  thoonhou@nd.edu and Elizabeth Greason at  egreason@nd.edu 




M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
in the irish defensive core. 
“it take pressure off our defense,” landis said. “we’re trying all three starters [in a rotation], myself, [junior] garrett epple and [senior] eddy glazener. There’s a lot of familiarity with how we play and our tendencies, so as the younger guys catch on our defense is going to be re­ally good.” 
The knights, meanwhile, won their season and home opener, 11-10, over robert morris on Feb. 13. however they went on to fall 9-7 at marquette on saturday. currently junior attack Tucker ciessau leads the knights with five goals and an assist, while fellow at­tacks dylan gatt and Jack perkins trail close behind with four goals each. and like doss, bellarmine soph­omore goaltender chase rose has gotten off to a solid start, securing 21 saves and posting a 52.5 percent save percentage. 
“They have a couple good players and run transition really well,” landis said. “we’ve been preparing for that. They have some good midfielders that will be a big test, but i think we will han­dle them really well.” 
This early in the season, though, with just two games study, it’s hard to tell just ex­actly what the irish are fac­ing in the knights, landis said. 
“we haven’t really had a chance to watch that much film on them and under­stand their actions this early in the season, so it will be important for our defense to use what we know about ourselves to properly defend them. and same applies to the offense in order to suc­ceed and score,” he said. 

landis also said the irish will further hone in on play­ing to their own strengths playing at home for the first time this season when notre dame and bellarmine meet at loftus sports center on wednesday at 5 p.m. 
“absolutely, i’m excited to play at home,” landis said. “it’s our last first home game as seniors, and we’re really excited to get this season underway and back at it at home. i think everyone is re­ally looking forward to it. For the freshman, it’s their first. it’s a really big deal.” 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS | aQuinas 6, smc 3 



Belles fall in spring opener 
Observer Staff Report   

in its first match since october, saint mary’s opened its spring schedule with a 6-3 loss to aquinas college on sunday af­ternoon at orchard hills Tennis center in grand rapids, michigan. 
The belles (1-1) took an early lead in the match, as they captured victo­ries in two of three dou­bles matches. Junior kaity venters and freshman abbi Fleming took the first point of the contest with an 8-6 victory over the saints duo of juniors kali green and brittany mayer. 
The belles kept the mo­mentum rolling, as senior margaret Faller and soph­omore maddie minaudo notched an 8-6 win over aquinas seniors anna musienko and marjeanne bothma to stake the belles to an early 2-0 lead. 
as the match entered singles play, however, saint mary’s faltered. Freshman monica davey fell to saints senior lea Jansen, 6-0, 6-1, at the top of the singles lineup, and belles junior sam setterblad was also handily defeated, 6-1, 
6-0,  by  saints  freshman  
martina  devetak  at  the  
second  singles  position.  

The team of davey and setterblad also came up short against Jansen and devetak in doubles compe­tition by a score of 8-3. 
Though she beat musienko in doubles play, minaudo lost to the ukrainian native, 6-2, 6-2, at no. 4 singles. Faller also lost to bothma, 6-4, 6-4, at no. 3 singles. The lone sin­gles win for the belles came from freshman elizabeth preister, who bested green, 6-4, 6-3, at the no. 6 singles spot. 
saint mary’s now sits at 1-1 as it moves into its spring schedule, while the saints improved to 3-2. 
The belles’ next opponent is st. Francis, which posted a fall record of 9-7, but the cougars have yet to take to the courts this spring. 
The match against the cougars will be played at notre dame’s eck Tennis pavilion on Friday at 6 p.m. 








M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
little bit worse of a position than we were going into the week,” beachem said. “but we still have a shot at it, just have to take it day by day and game by game.” 
so notre dame (18-8, 9-5 acc) will turn its atten­tion to wake Forest, a team the irish beat 85-62 Jan. 31. if the demon deacons are to pull the upset, they will have to do so without their leading scorer and rebound­er, senior forward devin Thomas. Thomas, who was averaging 15.8 points and 
10.2 rebounds per game, was suspended Feb. 19 for two games for violating an undisclosed athletic depart­ment policy. 
wake Forest (11-16, 2-13) handled conference bot­tom-dweller boston college on sunday without Thomas, 74-48, for its first win in 12 games. and despite the sus­pension of Thomas, irish head coach mike brey said he still expects a tough game from the demon deacons. 
“i know they’ve had their struggles on the road, but [at home] they play very well,” brey said. “They play fast — they’re the second fastest paced team in our league — so we’ve got to get back in transition and have our defense set. but it’d be nice to get off to a little bet­ter start on the road like we did at clemson.” 

notre dame’s defense will likely key in on freshman guard bryant crawford (13.7 points per game, 4.3 as­sists per game), who is car­rying the load in Thomas’ absence. crawford scored 20 points when the demon deacons visited purcell pavilion last month. 
The irish will also try to extend their ‘bounce-back’ win streak to 13 games, as they have not lost back-to­back games since the end of the 2013-14 season. 
“That’s been a nice trait for two seasons, really,” brey said. “we’ve been great in that mode. we’re in that mode again against a team that is better than their record.” 
if the irish are to continue their streak, they may have to do so without senior cap­tain and leading rebound­er Zach auguste. auguste hyper-extended his knee in the final minute against georgia Tech and did not practice monday, although brey said he is hopeful auguste can play. losing auguste for wednesday’s tilt would leave a large gap in the post for notre dame, where he is averaging 14 points and 10 rebounds per game. if auguste cannot go, notre dame could choose to go small with beachem and sophomore forward bonzie colson or add seldom-used reserve forwards junior austin Torres and sopho­more martinas geben to the mix. 
whoever is starting for the irish on wednesday, their focus will be on preventing back-to-back losses against non-ncaa tournament teams, beachem said. 
“we’ve been in this posi­tion before, going on the road having to bounce back,” beachem said. “it’s a great opportunity for us these next two games, and we want to leave the week with two wins.” 
notre dame will play its second of three straight road games wednesday night when it takes on wake Forest at lawrence Joel veterans memorial coliseum. Tipoff is set for 9 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


SWIMMING | acc championship 


Notre Dame set for ACCs 
By KIT LOUGHRAN  
sports writer 
The notre dame men’s swimming team commences its acc championship run today just after the women’s comes to an end. 
The women’s team finished seventh at the acc champi­onship in greensboro, north carolina, on saturday. The irish scored 537.5 points over four days of competi­tion, posting several top times throughout the meet. 
Freshman alice Treuth swam a 1:55.44 in the pre­lims for the 200-yard back­stroke and finished seventh in the final with a time of 
1:55.84. her time, along with freshman kyra sarazen’s 
1:56.82 in the b Final and and junior katie miller’s 
1:58.72 in the c Final, quali­fied as ncaa b-cut times. 
in the 400-yard freestyle relay, the school-record lineup of junior catherine mulquin, senior catherine galletti and freshmen ella moynihan and sofia revilak closed the night with a time of 3:21.08 to add 32 points to the team standings. 
now the men’s squad will take to the pool. like the women’s team, the irish will compete for four days from wednesday to saturday, and the 17 swimmers compet­ing are ready to prove them­selves in greensboro, senior shane mckenzie said. 
“This is the most fo­cused i have seen the mem­bers of this team all year,” mckenzie said. “we are def­initely set out to prove our­selves in the eyes of the acc and the national level. we did not rest for a mid-season meet this year, so this is the meet we have been dialed in on all season. 
“we had some tough losses during the dual meet season especially against acc ri­vals virginia and virginia Tech, and those losses are definitely in our minds heading into this confer­ence championship.” 
The irish return four se­niors, five juniors, three sophomores for another acc championship meet, while five freshmen will be racing at the collegiate postseason level for the first time. based on their training this sea­son, each swimmer is pursu­ing their respective events this postseason. as a team with ncaa hopes though, mckenzie said the meet will come down to the relays. 
“i will be swimming the 200 and 400 individual medley as well as the 200 butterfly,” mckenzie said. 

“Those are the events i have been training for all season and will be focusing on the most. 
“as a team, we are looking to improve significantly in the relays compared to last year. we have a number of freshmen who have stepped up this season and will contribute on those relays. Those will be exciting to watch as members of those relays hope to qualify for ncaas and establish new school records.” 
while the irish have claimed big east champion­ships in the past, they are still searching for their first acc trophy. in addition to virginia and virginia Tech, notre dame is set to face north carolina state, north carolina and louisville this week. 
“The biggest challenge at the meet will be keeping focus and energy high for the duration of the four-day meet,” mckenzie said. “There are prelims and fi­nals sessions every day with not a lot of down time in be­tween. These championship style meets are emotionally and physically draining, but as a team, we must trust in our training and focus on executing just as our coach­es have prepared us to do throughout the season.” 
and the key to remaining focused lies in the depth of notre dame’s roster, mckenzie said. The four se­niors and five juniors, who grounded the team mid-season during a coaching transition, will continue to solidify that foundation in the acc championships. 
“This is the first time as a senior class where all of us will be competing in the conference championship,” mckenzie said. “as a class, we are all very excited to see this team perform. 
“since coming back for winter training in december, i’ve never been part of a team here at notre dame more dedicated to each oth­er. This team is special and i couldn’t be prouder ending my swimming career with this group of guys, and i am positive the rest of the se­nior class — andrew Jensen, bogac ayhan and michael hudspith — can attest to that as well.” 
The irish compete in the 2016 acc championships meet from wednesday to saturday in greensboro, north carolina, at the greensboro aquatic center. 

Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 


BENGAL BOUTS 


Boxers fight for spot in championship bouts 
By ALEX ELLYIN, ALEX BENDER, TOBIAS HOONHOUT and ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writers 
137 pounds 
Chris Dethlefs def. Michael “Munchkin” Kappaz 
To kick off the semifinal round of bengal bouts, kappaz, a junior from alumni, was in attack mode from the start, landing numerous hits to the head of sorin sophomore dethlefs in the first round. This ag­gressive mindset forced dethlefs in a defensive stance through the match’s opening round. The second round began with offen­sive flurries from both fighters as dethlefs utilized his patient ap­proach and powerful left hook. kappaz landed a punch that drew blood from dethlefs, pausing the fight. in the final round, kappaz was getting tired, and dethlefs’ methodical approach allowed him to take advantage. in the end, the offensive firepower in the first two rounds from kappaz earned him the win by split decision. 

Atticus “Finch” Coscia def. Matthew Muliadi 
in the second semifinal of the night, the offensive firepower of siegfried junior coscia over­whelmed off-campus senior muliadi. coscia pushed muliadi onto to the ropes multiple times in the first round. muliadi, a na­tive of Jakarta, indonesia, did all he could to stay defensive and ag­ile in an effort to avoid the strong punches from coscia, but he was unable to do so throughout the bout. The third round saw coscia put muliadi on the ropes another three times as coscia pummeled the senior. Finch won the match by unanimous decision and will face michael kappaz in the 137-pound final. 


144 Pounds 
Danny “Nacho Tigre” Espinoza def. Matthew “Mr. January” Yoder 
This match began with a pa­tient approach from both fight­ers. espinoza, a junior from st. edward’s, started the first offensive exchange after nearly 30 seconds of stalemate and missed punches. The left hook of espinoza woke up yoder, a sophomore from alumni, leading yoder to respond with multiple right hooks to the head. The second round saw a spark from yoder, with his offensive game picking up. yoder stayed in attack mode to begin the third round, but a determined 
see bouTs PAGE 12 



MEN’S BASKETBALL 


nd to face shorthanded wake Forest team 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
looking to climb back into the top tier of the acc stand­ings, no. 23 notre dame travels to wake Forest on wednesday night to take on a demon deacon team missing its best player. 
after a last-second loss saturday to georgia Tech, notre dame now sits two games behind first place north carolina in the confer­ence standings. The irish also trail miami (Fla.), virginia and louisville by a game, as they look towards the acc tournament and a potential double bye. but despite being on the outside looking in for the regular-season confer­ence title, the team’s mindset hasn’t changed since facing the yellow Jackets, junior for­ward v.J. beachem said. 

“we had a bit of a slip-up saturday that put us in a CAITYLN JORDAN | The Observer 
Irish junior forward V.J. Beachem brings the ball past midcourt see m bball PAGE 15 during Notre Dame’s 71-66 win over Louisville on Feb. 13. 



MEN’S LACROSSE 


Irish set for first home contest 
By KIT LOUGHRAN  
sports writer 
with the lacrosse sea­son underway, the no. 1 irish open their home sea­son against bellarmine on wednesday. 
a great western lacrosse league opponent for notre dame, bellarmine (1-1) last met the irish (1-0) in 2009, and the irish won, 11-6. 
notre dame takes to its home turf after beating no. 13 georgetown, 12-7, in its season opener saturday at the cobb county classic in kennesaw, georgia. The irish exploded early with four goals in the opening period, as junior midfielder and all­american sergio perkovic scored two of his team-high four goals. Junior goaltender shane doss notched six saves in that same time, ultimately finishing the contest with 14. 
“i think we did really well [on faceoffs] against georgetown, and we will obviously need that to con­tinue,” senior captain and defender matt landis said. “Then our defense played really well. The whole team played very well.” 

Those faceoffs will be key to the irish dominating pos­session in their games going forward. Junior midfielder 
p.J. Finley won 16 of 21 his faceoffs against the hoyas. and in addition to contribut­ing to notre dame’s ability to score, dominating posses­sion will help the other irish in front of their own net as well, landis said. 
“p.J. with faceoffs has been huge in determining our possession,” landis said. “and from there it’s about holding off the ball when it comes down to it, making good decision and taking good shots.” 
landis said some of the younger players have jumped right in and found their place 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 




