The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 84 | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Survey evaluates political knowledge 
Student government and NDVotes’16 partner to determine student body’s engagement in policy, elections 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
in the second week of november, notre dame stu­dents will join the millions of college students across the country casting their ballots for the next president of the united states. in a re­cent survey, three-quarters of notre dame student re­spondents said they would definitely vote in the upcom­ing presidential election. 
The survey, administered by the national engagement and outreach (neo) depart­ment of student government and ndvotes’16, aimed to gauge notre dame students’ 
political  knowledge  and  
awareness.  
sophomore  Taylor  still,  

a member of neo, said the 

purpose of the survey was to determine the level of in­terest notre dame students have in national policy and civic engagement. 
“There’s this idea that mil­lennials are not engaged or not informed,” she said. “i wanted to challenge that on a very small scale.” 
The short survey was ad­ministered to 100 students at random in laFortune student center. still said neo hoped to capture a sample that was somewhat similar to the demographic of the notre dame student-body population. 
of the 100 students sur­veyed, 95 listed donald Trump as a presidential candidate. contrastingly, 

see survey PAGE 4 LUCY DU | The Observer 


smc expands academic and athletic facilities 
austin stahley, manager of energy and facilities proj­ects, said in an email that the concession building of the field complex has been fin­ished, and permanent power for the athletic complex had been completed at the end of 
see proJecT PAGE 4 


By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
new fields and traditions are taking root at saint mary’s this spring as con­struction progresses on the patricia wiedner purcell athletic Fields and yet-un­named science hall. 



The Observer announces new department editors 
Observer Staff Report 
seven new and two return­ing department heads will 
complete  The  observer’s  
2016-2017  editorial  board,  
incoming  editor-in-chief  

margaret hynds announced wednesday night. 
The new department edi­tors will join hynds as well as incoming managing editor Kayla mullen and assistant managing editors clare Kossler, Zach Klonsinski and alex carson in running editorial opera­tions for the paper. 
Juniors erin mcauliffe, Jimmy Kemper, wei cao and caitlyn Jordan, sopho­mores Katie galioto, nicole caratas, marek mazurek, susan Zhu and freshman claire radler will take over their respective depart­ments march 13. 
mcauliffe, a junior in pasquerilla east hall, will continue to serve as scene editor. a marketing major with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy, she began writing for scene her freshman year. originally from cincinnati, mcauliffe is also a wvFi dJ. 
Kemper, a native of alpharetta, georgia, will begin working as web editor. he began writing for scene his freshman year and has covered a variety of arts and entertainment top­ics, including Taylor swift’s business relationship with spotify and Kanye west’s shoes. Kemper, a resident of Zahm house, is an eco­nomics and english double major. 
cao will continue to work as multimedia editor. an aerospace engineering ma­jor and walnut, california, native living in dillon hall, cao has been with The observer since his fresh­man year. he has his own art blog and plays the tuba in the marching band. 
Jordan will join the editorial board as photo editor. The saint mary’s junior hails from ashburn, virginia, and lives in le mans hall. Jordan is a com­munication studies major with a minor in film stud­ies. she works with photog­raphy and video media and hopes to pursue a job in filmmaking. 
galioto, a resident of walsh hall, will head the news department. she be­gan her work with The observer in fall of 2014 and has since covered a variety of campus issues, includ­ing the espn lawsuit and mental health awareness week. galioto hails from chanhassen, minnesota, and is pursuing a degree in finance with minors in italian and journalism, eth­ics and democracy. 
caratas, a native of lake villa, illinois, currently liv­ing in holy cross hall, will take over as saint mary’s editor. caratas is a sopho­more english writing and 
see ediTors PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 irish insider WITHIN 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What would be your dream Super Bowl performance? 

Ally Cochran 
freshman 
breen-phillips hall 
“Justin Timberlake.” 

Erin Callaghan 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“lil wayne.” 

Paola Bocock 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“The beatles.” 



Jamie Maher 
sophomore 

pasquerilla east hall 
“christopher walken dancing on stage.” 

James Farrington 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“classic Taylor swift.” 

Chris Rho 

sophomore saint edward’s hall 
“chainsmokers, but it will probably be cancelled.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Kayla mullen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Jp gschwind marek mazurek Kathryn marshall 
Graphics Scene 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du John darr 

Photo Viewpoint 
Ethics Week Movie Welsh Family Dance Men’s Basketball vs. La Misa en Espaol Data Breach: Failures 
chris collins scott olehnik 
Night Fest North Carolina Dillon Hall and Follow-Ups Jordan Auditorium Washington Hall Purcell Pavilion 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Giovanini Commons 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. All are welcome to this 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 



Corrections 
Q&A session to follow Performances from all The Irish take on the Mass celebrated in Notre Dame Ethics 

The observer regards itself as movie, “Margin Call.” ND dance clubs. Tar Heels. Spanish. Week speaker.  a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Evening of Traditional Give Kids a Smile Edith Stein Project Men’s Tennis vs. Ball Student Recital 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Irish Music Mahoney Family McKenna Hall State Little Theatre 

however, recognize that we will make 
Legends of Notre Dentistry All day Eck Tennis Pavilion 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Dame all day Conference discussing 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Performance by 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. Free dental care for challenges of faith, The Irish take on the Saint Mary’s Music 
we can correct our error. 
Free music event. underserved children. dignity and identity. Cardinals. Department students. 




SENATE 


group discusses history, future of ‘china policy’ 
not manufacture any branded 

By JUSTINE WANG 

news writer products in countries with­
out freedom of association, 

student senate met ricketts said. wednesday evening to lis-“what that came down to ten to bryan ricketts, student was a policy we call freedom of body president, present on the association — colloquially, it’s history and current impact been called the ‘china policy,’ of the worker participation because that was the largest of committee. the countries that it prohibited 
“The genesis of it actually us from manufacturing in,” started back in the 1990s. Fr. ricketts said. “Freedom of as­malloy had us review our li-sociation means that you are censing procedures and basi-allowed to form unions — in cally said that we do not want your company, in your profes­to be doing sweatshop manu-sion — and bargain for labor facturing,” ricketts said. rights.” 
The decision resulted in the in 2013, executive vice fact that notre dame would president John affleck-graves led the movement to re-evalu­ate the licensing policies start­ed during Fr. malloy’s term, such as evaluating the mor­al standards the university should be upholding, ricketts said. 


“no other university ad­opted a policy like this, over the 15 years that we had it,” ricketts said. “we are not making anyone’s lives better in these countries by not being there. it’s a completely neutral policy.” 
To advise affleck-graves, the worker participation committee was formed, with a fluctuating membership of 20 to 30 people, including faculty, staff and students, ricketts said. 
according to ricketts, the committee partnered with verité, a firm that specializes in protecting labor rights, and developed 71 questions that encompass wholesome crite­ria for labor standards, from basic needs to aspirational needs, such as worker safety. 
verité has traveled to china on behalf of notre dame to evaluate, through on-site and off-site visits to interview workers, six different factories that produce notre dame-branded goods, ricketts said. after the design process, verité works with licensers that pro­duce the goods overseas in approved factories that notre dame does not directly inter­act with, ricketts said. 
alex coccia and lauren vidal, past student body presi­dents, had collaborated with this committee and traveled to china in september 2014 with a smaller group to survey four out of the six factories verité had originally visited, ricketts said. after their visit, they brought their preliminary findings to the campus com­munity, he said. 
“we sent verité to two companies in four different countries where we already produce notre dame-branded goods and had them evaluate the companies with the same standards that we are using in china,” ricketts said. 
other goals include looking over the licensing code and in­creasing campus participation in the discussion, including forming a student subcommit­tee. according to ricketts, the subcommittee will represent interested campus groups and academic departments. 
“a student subcommittee like this, who will be directly reporting to the executive vice president. … nothing like this has ever been done before,” ricketts said. 


Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 
2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: ROBERT SCHMUHL 
Professor analyzes Iowa, New Hampshire 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
Editor’s Note: Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, The Observer will sit down with Notre Dame experts to break down the election and its importance to students. In this third installment, News Writer Rachel O’Grady asks Walter H. Annenberg-Edmund P. Joyce Chair in American Studies and Journalism and Director of the John W. Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy Robert Schmuhl about the implications of the Iowa caucuses and the role of the media in the upcoming election. 
rachel o’grady: iowa didn’t turn out (necessar­ily) as the polls predicted. what do you make of these results? 
robert schmuhl: polling before caucuses is notori­ously chancy and usually less reliable than surveys be­fore primaries. evangelicals turned out in larger numbers for Ted cruz, as did younger voters for bernie sanders. 
rog: what should we be looking for in new hampshire? 
rs: First, whether donald Trump and bernie sanders do as well as they are expect­ed to do. on the republican side, it’ll be important to see which of the more main­stream candidates perform well and stake out a position to take on donald Trump and Ted cruz in future con­tests. For the democrats, if hillary clinton gets beaten badly, the question will be: is she more vulnerable than the pundits predicted a few months ago? is she no longer inevitable — or, at least, se­verely damaged? 
rog: how has media played a particular role in this primary election? how will it play a role in the general? 
rs: without the media, donald Trump would still be hustling real estate and worrying about his hair. he’s a performer, a very good one, and knows exactly how to attract attention. if there were a nobel prize for self-promotion, he’d win, hands-down. The media are accomplices and they project the way he dramatizes him­self and his views. That said, he’s a messenger with appeal for people who feel america is letting them down. he speaks to the anger abroad in the land. interestingly, so does bernie sanders — but from another ideological direction. in 2016, we have a billionaire and a socialist finding strong followings for giving expression to prob­lems now facing the nation. 
rog: in your research and opinion, what do you think will be the most important issue in the general election? 
rs: much of the time the economy, broadly defined, plays a dominant role in voting decisions: economic security [and the] future of promise for the current generation and the next one and all the rest. but if there would be another act of ter­rorism or a major incident abroad, then national secu­rity might become a major concern that the candidates have to confront as they campaign. 
rog: Taking it back to col­lege campuses, particularly here at nd, if students want to be informed, what’s the best way for them to stay in­formed? what should they be reading/watching? 
rs: with the crowded and cluttered media universe that now exists, the trick for everyone is to look for and to find the sources of informa­tion that provide answers to questions a person might be seeking. it’s important to use the new media to meet your needs and to be active rather than passive in the pursuit. partisan outlets take a per­son just so far. looking be­yond them to more in-depth treatment of the candidates and the issues leads to a more informed electorate. we all have to look beyond the slogans and sound bites. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Project 
conTinued From page 1 
the december. This enabled all the equipment and light­ing to be energized, he said. 
The last five to 10 percent of field construction, includ­ing softball field fine-turning and drainage and seeding, will resume in the spring, stahley said. 
“at this time, there are nu­merous variables that will af­fect our decision on how soon the fields will be available for practices, games, events, etc.,” stahley said. “we will be monitoring the maturity of the turf to determine when appropriate conditions have been met to avoid adverse effects to the complex as a whole.” 
The fields include a soc­cer, lacrosse and softball field, athletic director Julie schroeder-biek said. 
“To have a field dedicated to each of those sports is huge because most colleges will share a soccer field and lacrosse field,” schroeder­biek said. “we have indepen­dent fields for each of those sports, and that’s incredibly exciting.” 
a new lighting system will also benefit the student ath­letes of the college, she said. 
“i am thrilled about the lights,” schroeder-biek said. “we’ll have night games, and that will allow [the students] to stay in class a little bit lon­ger, and that will be less class time missed.” 
schroeder-biek said the complex also includes a scoreboard and press boxes. The most recent large-scale athletic department renova­tion was the construction of the current angela athletic Facility in 1977, she said. 
“[The new complex] is fi­nally what this campus de­serves in terms of varsity athletic fields,” she said. “now they have that ncaa diii varsity athletics feel. … i can’t wait for the visiting teams to see the fields. The soccer fields were the best fields in the league, and now i’m really excited about the look and the quality.” 
The presence of a large, French cross-shaped gate and the likely addition of a bell to ring before games and after victories adds to the collegiate curb appeal and new traditions brought by the project, she said. 
senior lacrosse captain Kristen whalen said she is excited about developing and sharing new traditions with the lacrosse team this season. 
“The iron gates featuring the French cross at the en­trance are absolutely mar­velous,” whalen said. “i can’t wait to watch them become another charming and dis­tinguishable feature at saint mary’s, like the iconic le mans façade.” 
The use of the fields this spring season depends on the stability of the newly-grown root base and subsoil, schroeder-biek said. 
“They’re beautiful, and we’re all so anxious to get out on those fields,” schroeder­biek said. “and it’s so much easier on the student-ath­lete experience. it was re­ally tough on soccer this fall to have to go off-site all the time for practices. 
“we’re really hopeful we can be out there in the spring,” she said. “we’re at that wait-and-see moment right now.” 
whalen said she is also anxious to play on the fields and believes pride in the new complex will feed into the team’s competitive edge. 
“in the past, our home fa­cilities have been fairly rug­ged in comparison to larger, co-ed schools in our confer­ence,” whalen said. “on and off the field, a belle exudes class, is fiercely competitive and relentlessly puts her best foot forward until the end — now we are blessed to have a facility that embodies these characteristics, too.” 
“i am so humbled by the purcells’ generosity,” whalen said. “The attention to detail surpasses everything i could have hoped for. The thought of playing on the field for senior day [on april 16] is honestly more exciting than graduation.” 
plans for a future reno­vation and addition onto angela athletic Facility are in discussion, schroeder­biek said. 
construction of the science hall is also making progress and is on track to meet the fall 2016 completion date, stahley said in an email. The mild winter has been benefi­cial in keeping on track, he said. 
“we’ve been able to keep a constant workforce on site to enable the project’s suc­cess and fall completion,” stahley said. “For example, with the minimal amount of snow, less attention and la­bor hours are being delegat­ed toward usually important items such as snow removal on the roof. 
“This benefits everyone’s progress because of the con­nection and coordination be­tween the different trades.” 
currently, attention is be­ing focused on the existing south side, he said. 
“due to the phasing aspect of this project, certain class­rooms and lab spaces need to be completed before we can begin demolition and reno­vation of existing areas to maintain associated learn­ing environments,” stahley said. “The majority of the remaining work will not be completed earlier than this summer or fall of 2016.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Survey 
conTinued From page 1 
only 28 percent of respon­dents could name four or more u.s. supreme court Justices, still said. 
“we were pleasantly sur­prised by the amount of political knowledge that we found on campus,” she said. “students are defi­nitely thinking about these political issues, and not just in strictly black-and-white interpretations.” 
sophomore sarah Tomas morgan, co-chair of ndvotes’16, said neo ap­proached the nonpartisan campaign back in november to ask for help promoting the survey within the notre dame community. 
“neo approached us be­cause they knew that we had a similar mission to what they were trying to ac-or to begin having those conversations.” 
ndvotes’16 is a revised version of a student-led initiative created for the 2004, 2008 and 2012 presi­dential elections, said rosie mcdowell, one of the campaign’s faculty over­seers. The task force, which consists of representatives from a variety of campus political and special inter­est groups, is supported by the center for social concerns and the rooney center for the study of american democracy. 
mcdowell said ndvotes hopes to help the campus community take advantage of its new partnership with Turbovote, an online ser­vice that will allow notre dame students and faculty to register to vote and re­quest absentee ballots free of charge. 
“The other piece of this 
“Students are definitely thinking about these political issues and not just in strictly black-and-white interpretations.” 
Taylor Still 
Nationial Engagement and Outreach 
complish with this survey,” is voter education — get-Tomas morgan said. “as ting students to be aware of i’ve gotten more involved various issues and helping in the political scene on them understand that get-campus, i think there is a ting involved in the com-lot of interest. sometimes munity and acting civically students just don’t know is just as important as vot­where to find the resources ing,” she said. to start educating their vote “pizza, pop and politics,” 
paid adverTisemenT 
a series of events hosted by ndvotes throughout the semester, is designed to stimulate quality discus­sions among students with a wide variety of political viewpoints, mcdowell said. 
“an engaged campus is what we’re hoping for,” she said. “often, the discus­sions get really polarized really quickly. … it’s okay to disagree, as long as we can agree that each other might have valid points.” 
Tomas morgan said she hopes notre dame students create conversations about relevant political issues, encouraging them to make an informed contribution to the young adult vote. 
“i think they have the willingness to make voting and political engagement a part of their lives,” she said. “but there’s just not always the right impetus to get it going. i think there’s defi­nitely promise, but i also think there’s more that we can do this season to get people more invested.” 
still said the survey’s re­sults are still being ana­lyzed, although neo would have to repeat or extend the survey to get a larger sam­ple if it wanted more cred­ible results. neither neo nor ndvotes has any plans to further the survey or di­rectly respond to its results at this point in time. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 




Editors 
conTinued From page 1 
humanistic studies double major. she has been writ­
ing  for The  observer since  
her  freshman  year,  cover­ 
ing  issues  such  as Title  iX  

and “The hunting ground” documentary. 
mazurek will take on the position of sports editor. a mishawaka resident, he cur­rently resides in carroll hall on campus. he is pursuing a degree in history with a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy and has been writing for The observer since his freshman year. he currently covers men’s bas­ketball and has previously covered women’s soccer and cross country. 
radler, the incoming viewpoint editor, began working for The observer this fall as a copyeditor for the department. currently living in pangborn hall, she was born and raised in winnetka, illinois.  she is a freshman english and politi­cal science double major and also works for the First year of studies. 
Zhu, originally from granger, will assume the role of graphics editor. a resident of ryan hall, she has been a graphic designer for The observer for two years. she is a chemistry and political sci­ence double major and also works for the snite museum of art. 
Syrian peace talks come to halt as tension and violence continues 
Associated Press 
The peace talks in the syrian civil war are taking a break. The fighting is not. 
u.n. special envoy for syria staffan de mistura an­nounced wednesday there would be a “temporary pause” in the indirect peace talks between the govern­ment and opposition, say­ing the process will resume Feb. 25. 
in a statement later in the day, de mistura’s office said the talks would take a “re­cess” by the end of Friday and would resume “no later than 25 February, and pos­sibly much earlier.” 
The delay reflects the rocky start of the talks monday in which neither the government nor the opposition even acknowl­edged that the negotiations had officially begun. 
“it is not the end, and it is not the failure of the talks,” de mistura told reporters after a meeting with oppo­sition leaders. 
both sides remain “inter­ested in having the political process started,” he added. 
The conflict that began in march 2011 has killed at least 250,000 people, dis­placed 11 million and given 
paid adverTisemenT 
an opening for the islamic state group to seize large parts of the country from forces loyal to president bashar assad. 
“i’m not frustrated i’m not disappointed,” de mistura said of the pause. “when you have a five year war and had so many difficult mo­ments you have to be deter­mined, but also realistic.” 
The last round of talks broke down in 2014. 
The saudi-backed oppo­sition, known as the high negotiations committee, had been reluctant to come to the talks, saying the gov­ernment should first end the bombardment of ci­vilians, allow aid into be­sieged rebel-held areas, and release thousands of detainees. 
on wednesday, delega­tion head riad hajib said the assad government had not met those demands. 
“The hnc delegation will leave tomorrow and will not return (to geneva) until we see positive steps on hu­manitarian issues,” he said. 
“This regime that ruined the geneva negotiations in 2014 is doing it again during this political process,” hijab added. “we came to geneva to prove to the world that this regime does not believe in a political solution.” 
The head of the syrian delegation, bashar Ja’afari, said the opposition “had or­ders from its masters to ruin the talks.” 
“yes, there is a failure. it is a failure of everybody except the government of the syrian arab republic,” Ja’afari said. “Those who have the responsibility of this failure are the saudis, the Turks and the Qataris. They are the real handlers 
and  the  masters  of  the  
riyadh group.”  
on  wednesday,  syrian  

government forces, backed by russian airstrikes, blast­ed their way into two shiite villages in the north, break­ing a long-running rebel siege, syrian Tv reported. 
The villages of nubul and Zahra are located in the middle of opposition terri­tory and have been block­aded by rebel groups for about three years, with the army occasionally dropping food and other aid to those inside. 
reaching them marked a major victory for govern­ment forces, which have made significant advances in aleppo province in re­cent days. The syrian troops severed a key supply route linking the rebels in the city of aleppo to the Turkish border. 
if the pro-government of­fensive succeeds, it will be one of the biggest blows to the insurgents since they captured large parts of aleppo, syria’s largest city, in the summer of 2012. 
The offensive has led the opposition to accuse damascus of negotiating in bad faith. 
The two delegations were not meeting face to face but were in separate rooms, with de mistura shuttling between them in the so-called “proximity talks.” he had scheduled the talks to last six months. 
de mistura said he will ask the u.n. security council and the international syria support group of about 20 regional and world pow­ers to address some of the pending issues in the talks, including what can be done “to make a difference for the syrian people.” 
he said both sides had ex­pressed concerns about the talks, with the government wanting to address “proce­dural issues before talking about (the) humanitarian side.” 


south Korea claims imminent missile attack 
Associated Press 
south Korea said Thursday it has detected prepara­tions by rival north Korea to fire a long-range rock­et and warned that seoul will shoot down any rock­et parts flying over south Korean territory. 
north Korea told inter­national organizations Tuesday that it will launch an observation satellite aboard a rocket between Feb. 8 and 25. south Korea, the united states and oth­ers call the plans a cover for a banned test of a missile that could strike the u.s. mainland. 
The launch announce­ment follows an outpour­ing of global condemnation over the north’s fourth nu­clear test on Jan. 6. seoul and washington have also denounced the rocket launch plan, but if north Korea’s past patterns are any clue, angry warnings probably won’t dissuade a coming launch. 
south Korean defense of­ficials said Thursday that the north is pushing ahead with the launch plans at its Tongchang-ri launch site on its west coast. They refused to provide details because they said they involve con­fidential intelligence on the north. 
recent commercial sat­ellite images showed an increased number of ve­hicles at north Korea’s sohae launch station on Feb. 1, compared to a week earlier. This suggests that the north is preparing for a space launch in com­ing weeks, according to 38 north, a north Korea-focused website run by the u.s-Korea institute at Johns hopkins school of advanced international studies. 
however, the website said it was impossible to tell from the satellite imagery whether a space launch ve­hicle was present. 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

choose más 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

There are a lot of important decisions we will make in our time at notre dame. over our four years here, we will choose our classes, our friends, our major, our career and so much more. but there is one choice that we as a community have overlooked. and that is the choice of breakfast. 
hear me out on this. 

if you are like me and have the standard dining hall plan, then you only have ac­cess to 14 meals per week from the dining hall. and, if you, like me, eat all 14 of those meals, then there are about five times dur­ing the week when you will have to spend your flex points on a meal. and if those meals happen to be breakfast, then you don’t have many choices on campus. 
For those who live on north Quad, you could go to subway or au bon pain, but there are only so many times that you can have the same breakfast sandwich or sub. and those who live on south Quad could go to einstein bagels for something different, but walking to the edge of campus at seven in the morning isn’t always the best option. 
a Taco bell breakfast would alleviate this dearth of variety that plagues our morning meal options. with delectable items includ­ing the mountain dew Kickstart orange citrus, the biscuit taco and the waffle taco, a Taco bell breakfast provides an unprece­dented number of options that our campus so desperately needs. 
The Taco bell in laFortune, as it stands, only caters to the late night, post-Feve crowd and their demands for such staples as doritos tacos and cheesy gordita crunch­es. Taco bell can be so much more than that. 
Furthermore, everyone knows that break­fast is the most important meal of the day. you need that early morning boost in en­ergy to make it through your 8 a.m. classes, remember all the tough material and fight through the indiana winter. so why limit your options? 
when it comes to the important life de­cisions we will make in our time at notre dame, the choice of breakfast stands alone. we as a community cannot afford to choose poorly in this regard. as Father Jenkins once said, “let no one ever say again that we dreamed too small.” dream big, demand a Taco bell breakfast, and make notre dame great again. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


‘Yes and ... ’: Improv-ing your lifestyle 

Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 
auditioning for the humor artists in the fall of 2014 — as an smc junior returning from a year abroad — was a leap for me. i’m typically one of the quieter theater types (yes, there is such a thing!), and the idea of getting up without a script in front of an audience that expected to be amused was intimi­dating. i guess after a year in italy, i thought i could do anything or some nonsense like that, so i gave it a shot. if i had the gift, then great! if not, oh well. 
i’m not sure who was more surprised when the humor artists let me in — me, or my mom — but i soon learned that improv comedy is not a “you­either-get-it-or-you-don’t” activity. it requires some natural inclinations, i suppose — mainly the absurd desire to make lots of people laugh at the same time, more or less on purpose. but once you’ve joined an improv team or signed up for a class, that’s when the learning begins, lots of it. and for me, it’s been a very gradual process of developing the skills of ob­servation, timing and scene structure. but improv requires a lot more of me than that. it requires confi­dence, trust, courage, a willingness to fail and faith that that won’t happen. it demands listening to my teammates, respecting their choices, expanding on others’ ideas and learning when to lead and when to follow. it takes a certain way of relating with others 
— teammates and audience members — for the art form to function. 
Fortunately, improv teaches what it demands and can foster growth in all who give it a shot. The humor artists, being a very large team, dedicate much of their energy to making this growth hap­pen for their team members. but if you’re not in the humor artists, you can still bring improvisational psychology into your life with two words: “yes, and … ” 
For an improviser, “yes, and … ” is “let there be light” and the golden rule combined. it’s the es­sence of improvising with others, and it’s the fore­most commandment: always, always affirm and expand your partner’s ideas. negate (“no”), and the scene dies. Qualify (“yes, but … ”), and the scene loses its balance. affirm and expand (“yes, and … ”), and the scene grows into something new: a partner­ship, a co-authored story with mutual give and take. The point is to create a great experience for impro­viser and audience alike: no room for being a diva or for being unconfident when your teammates are depending on you! you’re up there to make each oth­er look good (two brains are funnier than one), and to come in for the rescue whenever necessary. That’s a beautiful feeling of both safety and empowerment. and you don’t need to be onstage to bring it to life. 
what if every time someone said something to you, you listened? what if you accepted others’ ideas without irony and added input of your own? what if, in your conversations, you thought about making the most out of the time and energy you were shar­ing with another person rather than about how you could come out on top? what if you assumed that your partners in business, school and life were there to help you, and for you to help? what would that feel like? it would feel like standing on a stage with­out a script in your hand, without an agenda and without a plan. but it would also feel like you’ve got a friend or two with you, making eye contact, offering you ideas, waiting for yours, ready to jump in and save you, ready to let you do the same for them. it would feel like the safest risky thing you ever did. 
it’s not easy. it’s not natural for a lot of us. it takes a lot of practice, many mistakes and a lot of learning. and it takes a lot of nonjudgmental people willing to you let you fall on your face in front of them. but “yes, and … ” is the surest way to teamwork, the fast­est route to creative and interpersonal success, that i’ve ever encountered. and it feels really, really good: nonthreatening, collaborative, open-minded, ac­cepting, artistic, freeing. 
The world and the people in it are a lot less scary when your default is a “yes” rather than a “no” or a “meh” (or a “god, no”). and don’t forget the “and,” which always invites you to enter the scene, the con­versation, the action or the community. when you see your coworkers, friends, neighbors and peers as teammates, your goals change from advancing yourself to advancing your scene, your project, your relationships or your community. you are then pro­ductive, creative, empathetic, humble and respect­ful. in short, you’re a great improviser and a great human being. 
we’re all making life up as we go along. let’s im­provise with joy, confidence and respect. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“human nature, with all its infirmaties and depravaties, is still capable of great things.” 
John Adams Second President of the United States 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Forgiveness and friendship 


Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

last year i worked as a student attorney defend­ing the underprivileged in my community. a few had committed heinous crimes. people ask me how i could defend someone convicted of sex traffick­ing, drug trafficking or murder. 
somehow, after overcoming the initial shock, i never hesitated in my representation. i think part of it came out of my convictions as a catholic. Francis cardinal george once wrote: “in the united states, everything is permitted, even encouraged… but, while practically everything might be permit­ted, practically nothing is forgiven. by contrast, in the church much is not permitted … but while much is not permitted, everything can be forgiven. our culture pulls us towards vengeance, our faith towards mercy.” in my mind, everyone deserved representation and hope for a future, by virtue of their humanity. 
but this representation was easy in a way that never really challenged my convictions. They didn’t rape me. They didn’t facilitate addictions for my family members. They didn’t kill my friends. There’s a wall dividing what they did from my own life. 
in a similar way, many activists have easy work. Forgiveness is easy when you’re fighting “policies”: “the death penalty,” “mandatory minimums” or “life sentences without parole.” That fight might be different if you’re the victim behind those poli­cies. and in some ways it’s even harder when you’re someone close to the victim. 
if we believe that forgiveness should never be withheld, in these situations it might be easy to sprinkle a little “i forgive you” fairy dust over the situation and then walk off. as a feisty Franciscan priest once said, “most people would give you the shirt off their back as long as you promise to take it and go away.” For some, maria gorretti is a role model, as long as we don’t have to do what she did, go back to a jail cell and visit her murderer. i some­times wonder if people persecuted by saul ever met paul and, if they did, how they responded. 
in the gospel of John, peter betrays christ by denying their friendship three times. later in the story, the resurrected christ asks peter three times: “do you love me?” The english translation doesn’t catch that the ancient greek uses two different words for “love” here. christ first asks, “agapais me?”, “do you love me with agapic love?” peter doesn’t respond as you might expect: “agapo se,” “i love you with agapic love.” instead he responds, “philo se”, “i love you as a friend.” christ asks a sec­ond time, “agapais me?”, and peter again responds, “philo se.” Finally, christ asks the question peter desires: “phileis me?”, “are you my friend?” 
The greek orthodox tradition treats this as a sig­nificant shift, in which peter longs for more than agape, the selfless love which christians must grant even to strangers and enemies. peter fights for philos, the intimate love of friendship, and he refuses anything less. his relationship with christ cannot be made whole until they are made friends again. pavel Florensky writes that “what peter re­ally needed was the restoration of friendly, per­sonal relations with the lord … he had injured the lord as a friend injures a friend,” with a betrayal. “Therefore he needed a new covenant of friend­ship.” likewise remi brague, in his remarks at notre dame this fall, argued, “Forgiveness is not a philosophical concept … Forgiveness is the possi­bility of starting again.” 
but often forgiveness is awful. it’s grueling and painful, sometimes preceded and followed by tears. The human cost of befriending a betrayer is great. Jesus said that you have to forgive your brother 77 times. This could mean two things. First, it could mean that we have to forgive each individual instance of hurt or betrayal or injustice committed against us. but it might also speak to the ongoing pain of betrayal and the correspond­ing need for ongoing forgiveness. when we’re really hurt by someone, hurt in the deepest ways, the hurt often goes on beyond the “i forgive you” fairy dust. we experience the pain over and over again. To forgive someone isn’t just to say that we offer for­giveness. it’s also to affirm that forgiveness, both for ourselves and the other, each time the pain is remembered and experienced again. 
in a way, this might create stronger bonds with those who have hurt us than with those who are strangers, because we have to make a decision for mercy and love repeatedly, possibly for the rest of our lives. every time it hurts, you’re presented with a new choice. Forgive, or withdraw your forgive­ness? Turn away in vengeance, or turn in towards friendship? 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence 
J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Widen your gaze to understand income inequality 

Michael Dinh 
guest column 

i like to listen to both sides of the story. Typically, when i read about income inequal­ity, the topic of debate is over which strate­gies are most likely to solve the problem. both republicans and democrats start battles over this issue in their attempt to win middle-class voters. so when i saw the article sponsored by bridgend titled “is income inequality that bad?”, discarding the aforementioned debate in favor of an even more fundamental question, i was captivated. 
The article posits income inequality is a red herring for the bigger problems that our country faces. “why does it matter how much the richest person in the country has, so long as the rest of the country lives comfortably … unless there is a direct connection between how much the rich have and the poverty level, the gap doesn’t mat­ter,” writes the author. 
on this matter, my thinking diverges with the author’s entirely. There is no justice in the way wealth is distributed in the united states. Today, people at the lowest end of the income range cannot expect to live any part of the american dream. a person working full-time at minimum wage will make less than $15,000 in a year. in a family of four with one working parent, this amounts to only 60 percent of the federal pov­erty line. That is hardly enough to put food on the table and to pay rent, much less purchase a home, pay for medical care, save for retirement or support a child through college. “people are paid the worth of what they bring into the economy,” the author writes. This mindset can doom people who are uneducated, disabled or mentally ill for no reason other than the circumstances of their birth and upbringing. gaps in income by gender and race, which persist even when controlling for occupation, education and hours worked, further complicate this picture. 
The author does provide some evidence that the lives of low-income households are really not that bad. she cites a study by a member of the social security advisory board (which she misattributes to the cato institute) that suggests the recent rise in income inequality can be at­tributed to government support and a shift from cash wages to non-cash workers’ benefits as com­pensation for work. in other words, the rise in income inequality is illusory. Furthermore, she agrees with dinesh d’souza’s assessment that standard of living inequality has shrunk because most working americans have the same basic appliances and necessities as the rich, such as “refrigerators, phones and computers.” 
so, is income inequality that bad? 
yes. it really is that bad. 
The people at the lowest end of the income range would certainly tell you so. but the lived experiences of the poor in america are repeat­edly discounted in the article. The idea that ask­ing for fair wages is a result of, as the author puts it, “a natural human instinct to resent the front-runners in our economic system” demeans the millions who struggle to survive in this country. and to dinesh d’souza: having a refrigerator, phone and computer is of little solace to the par­ent who must work multiple jobs to support their family because the income from one job just isn’t enough. Furthermore, the author’s own pur­ported evidence, which was thin to begin with, falls apart upon closer examination: when read­ing the study in question, it becomes quite clear that while it argues that income inequality has not grown, it acknowledges the current existing income inequality is still problematic. 
so, what solutions would i offer? again, i return to my opening statement: listen to both sides of the story. liberals and conservatives have pro­posed different measures, including a higher minimum wage, increasing estate taxes, fairer housing and education, campaign finance reform and lower income taxes. The author’s own pro­posed solution is to focus on increasing econom­ic growth in order to increase the wealth of the poor and therefore raise the standard of living for everyone. but without income equality, how will this wealth reach the poor? The wealth is already there, as she points out: one percent of the popu­lations owns almost 36 percent of the country’s wealth. it is not going to just trickle down. i am not sure what needs to be done, but i am certain that something must be done. i urge the author and others like her to see the value of each hu­man being as unconditional, and to think not of statistics but of real people. For if we ignore the lived experiences that result from income in­equality, we risk dooming an entire section of our country to inescapable poverty. 
Michael Dinh is a senior majoring in biology and psychology. He can be reached at mdinh@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON 
scene writer 

From movies to Tv shows to netflix original series, marvel is killing the game by creating a gigantic cinematic universe the likes of which we’ve only ever seen in comic books. 
out of this universe, one of marvel’s most important contributions to mod­ern entertainment just got renewed for a second season — that’s right, Jessica Jones will be punching, kicking and (quite possibly) drinking her way through another incredible story arc at a to-be-determined date. 
There are a thousand and one things to love about marvel’s “Jessica Jones,” the netflix original series that came out november 2015. The cast is diverse, featuring multiple female leads and people of color. The plot, while intense and often heartbreaking, channels a kind of humor that is sadly lacking in “daredevil,” another netflix original show starring a super hero set in the 
By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene writer 

saul williams’ new album, “martyrloserKing,” is sitting in 52nd place on iTunes’ top selling hip-hop al­bums — even though it came out on Friday. it’s hard for me to not take that personally. obviously, when it comes to “pop culture,” the “pop” usually out­weighs the “culture,” but that doesn’t mean i have to like it. 
Then again, maybe that’s the perfect reception for an album “about that mid­dle finger to the b*******,” as williams quipped in an interview with hiphopdX. 
saul williams is one of very few peo­ple who became known for poetry be­fore being known for anything else. by working his way up through the slam poetry scene of his native new york, he made a name for himself with his ag­gressive style. That notoriety landed him a writer position and starring role in the 1998 film, “slam.” From there, he branched out to become a sort of artis­tic renaissance man: acting on stage, writing books and (obviously) making hell’s Kitchen neighborhood of new york city. 
perhaps most importantly, “Jessica Jones” explores and deals with the trauma of rape without ever showing the assault itself. 
we meet the titular character as she is working to get her new p.i. business up and running. right away, we’re made aware that she possesses some kind of super strength and that she’s suffering from traumatic flashbacks. we’re in­trigued both by her mysterious powers and by her closed off but incredibly vul­nerable demeanor. The question of her powers — what exactly are they? where did they come from? — takes a backseat to the character’s inner turmoil. 
in an interview with “The hollywood reporter,” showrunner melissa rosenberg discussed her revulsion at the gratuitous depiction of assault and its use as a motivating factor for male characters to seek revenge. 
“we’re very conscious to treat that aspect of the story with sensitivity and 
music. Through it all, though, his work never lost the feeling of righteous anger that made him a slam legend. 
“martyrloserKing” seems to be an­other stop on the train of thought that started with williams’ 2015 book, “us (a.).” That collection of poetry is the sum of several years spent traveling abroad and looking at the united states from the outside in. (The album’s title was in­spired by heavily-accented pronuncia­tions of martin luther King.) The book demonstrates williams’ fascination with the internet as a vehicle for social change, as well as his caustic criticisms of america, specifically the nation’s in­ability to move past racism. 
“i simply wanted to experience, if only momentarily, a life free from it,” he vents in the introduction to “us (a.).” 
That is the mental environment that gave birth to “martyrloserKing,” and it shows. almost every track features the irritated hum of synthetic beats ac­centing his already forceful vocal work. The album’s single “burundi” (released last year just prior to the election crisis in that country) is an excellent example responsibility,” rosenberg said. “For me, if i never see an actual rape on a screen again it’ll be too soon. … it’s damaging. it’s just hideous messaging, and so coming into this [Jessica Jones], the events have already happened, and this is really about the impact of rape on a person and about healing, surviv­al, trauma and facing demons. To me, it’s much richer territory. 
Jessica wears a very similar outfit in every episode — boots, leather jacket, tank top and jeans. her dark hair often obscures most of her face. she drinks excessively and doesn’t just avoid talk­ing about feelings; she often represses them altogether. The fact that she pos­sesses super strength doesn’t even seem to help her much — it only makes her more alluring to the antagonist and more likely to smash things by accident. 
her physical strength can’t compare to her mental strength, however. Jessica is a secretive, belligerent, sarcastic al­coholic, but she’s a good person. she’s extremely protective of the few people 
of this formula. williams comes out ag­gressively, punching out a verse over an electric whine before bringing even more energy to a chorus. in that cho­rus, he calls to mind the struggle of op­pressed people: “chop my neck a million times, i still burn bright and stand, yo.” activist would not be an inappropriate label for williams, just as musical activ­ism would not be an inappropriate label for “martyrloserKing.” 
That focus on social consciousness is one reason williams’ work has been taught in schools and why he has trav­elled across the world giving lectures and performances. it’s impossible to listen to his music or poetry and not feel inspired to do something. 
among the strongest tracks on the record are the dance-hall reminiscent “The bear/coltan as cotton,” which ends with a verse of his characteristi­cally superb poetry, and the driving “all coltrane solos at once.” on a project filled with unique gems, though, it’s al­most impossible for someone to listen and not find something that gets them going. 
she loves, and she’s trying to make the world a better place in her own way. in doing this, she’s also overcoming her trauma by hunting down the man re­sponsible before he can destroy more lives. 
but it’s not about revenge, it’s about justice and healing. That’s what makes Jessica Jones human and her story so compelling. and that’s why the show is so important. 
The genius of “Jessica Jones” is that we get to watch a broken character save herself. she doesn’t need a guy to put her back together, she doesn’t need (and never gets) a makeover, she screws up and gets people hurt, but she ultimately saves the day. she’s deeply flawed and hurt, but Jessica Jones still desperately wants (and does her best) to be a hero­ine. not a superheroine, just a heroine. 
without the sparkly, skimpy outfit — that’s not very suited to kicking butt. 
Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at dconnel5@nd.edu 
“To the promise land,” repeats a squeaking computerized voice at the start of the first track, “groundwork.” From that point on, every song is a per­formance in itself, with its own unique message and musical development. They’re not all winners, but each con­tains at least a few lines worth hearing. The album, like a journey to the promise land, isn’t always pretty, but it’s almost always meaningful. 
don’t take my word for it, though. as rap legend nas recently quipped, “saul is every kind of great artist rolled into one. he is the best of every genre in one.” 
Contact Matthew Macke at mmacke@nd.edu 
“MartyrLoserKing” 
Saul Williams 
Label: Fader Label Tracks: “The Bear/Coltan As Cotton” If you like: Sage Francis, Aesop Rock 



LUCY DU | The Observer 



COMMENTARY 

nd starts slow, finishes with depth 

Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
When notre dame opened the 2015 season against Texas on sept. 5, its recruiting class sat at a mediocre 27th place in rivals’ Team rankings, behind the likes of Kentucky, Texas Tech and duke. 
At that time, the top com­mitted players to the Irish were two four-stars in offen­sive lineman Tommy Kraemer and receiver chase claypool 
— two great players in their own right, but not prospects to hang your hat on as the big gems of the class. 
“I think the fact that notre dame lost four coaches, they took a lot of steps back on the recruiting trail,” blue and Gold Illustrated’s Andrew Ivins told The observer in september. “ … right now, it might not be the most star-studded class, but at the end of the day … this staff has proven they can flip kids down the stretch.” 
Fast-forward five months, and Irish head coach brian Kelly has put together his deepest recruiting class to date, if not his most impressive. 
What has been key for notre dame is the level of talent Kelly has doggedly pursued throughout the season. of the eight players who have committed since the start of the season, five are four-star talents and one, linebacker daelin hayes, is rated as a five-star talent per rivals. For comparison, take brian Kelly’s 2014 class: Although nine players signed with notre dame between september and signing day, only two were ranked as four-star prospects. This year, Kelly has closed harder than ever before. 
critics can argue Kelly’s 2013 haul was stronger, and it might be. but that class had the benefit of notre dame’s national championship game appearance that season. Three of that class’s four five-star recruits — running back Greg bryant, defensive back max redfield and defensive tackle eddie vanderdoes — all pledged to the Irish after they had locked up their spot in miami. 
What makes this class so special, however, is the mo­mentum Kelly has had on the recruiting trail. notre dame has had a player decommit in every class since Kelly arrived on campus, oftentimes late in the process and thus deflat­ing. Last year it was four-star safety Prentice mcKinney backing off his pledge in late January. The year before saw early-enrollee five-star inside linebacker Alex Anzalone snub the Irish days before he was expected on cam­pus, while 2012’s saga was four-star receiver deontay Greenberry spurning the Irish on signing day in favor of houston. 
This year, no player who has committed to notre dame has decommitted from the Irish. 
conversely, notre dame has flipped seven recruits of its own. Kelly has been able to take advantage of instability at Usc and virginia Tech to flip hayes and defensive back Troy Pride Jr., respectively. equally impressive was notre dame’s ability to flip four-star defensive end Khalid Kareem from Alabama. sure, notre dame has flipped recruits in years past, but never the cali­ber of player they have this cycle. 
Perhaps the single most im­pressive thing about the 2016 recruiting haul is the depth it brings across the board. Troubles in the secondary the last few years? seven de­fensive backs will sign. 2015’s top three receivers leaving? Three new ones will join the fold, with a potential to add another when five-star talent demetris robertson decides in the next couple of weeks. Attrition at linebacker? Three highly recruited lineback­ers will join the fold, with four-star defensive end Julian okwara looking to take on a hybrid role on defense as well. 
notre dame’s 2016 recruit­ing class might not have the most stars or flashiest playmakers, but it should be viewed as one of Kelly’s best efforts. As Kelly likes to say, he’s found rKGs — the right Kind of Guys. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Kelly recaps decommit-free National Signing Day 

By MARY GREEN 
Assistant managing editor 
When Irish coaches woke up Wednesday morning, they expected to officially add 22 players to their 2016 recruiting class. 
but by the end of the day, they had 23 — including each in the original 22-player group. 
In a time when decommit­ments, especially close to or even on national signing day, have become more and more prevalent, this year was the first in head coach brian Kelly’s seven-year tenure in which every player who originally committed to the Irish ended up following through on that commitment by sending his national Letter of Intent to notre dame. 
“It’s awesome,” Kelly said. “I think that everybody should try it once in their career.” 
All jokes aside, Kelly credited that stability in commitments to new approaches in recruit­ing by him and his staff. 
“I think first and foremost, all coaches, the entire staff having a consistent message, and that message being one of who we are and what we’re about and never swaying from that,” Kelly said. “so for example, if you have three different coaches that go to recruit you and you get three different messages, there’s some uncertainty as to what I’m getting myself into. but if all three coaches come in and you hear the same thing, you know what you’re getting. That lessens the wavering of a student-athlete. 
“ … I think number two is that we vetted out better than we ever have because we were further out on our recruits in terms of time. We had more time with them to make sure that they were kids that would fit here at notre dame. I think those two things stood out for me that we didn’t have the kind of back and forth.” 
After losing cornerbacks Keivarae russell and matthias Farley and safety elijah shumate to graduation and the nFL draft, the Irish reloaded in the secondary with seven new players: Jalen elliott, Julian Love, d.J. morgan, spencer Perry, Troy Pride Jr., devin studstill and donte’ vaughn. Perry and studstill are already on campus as early enrollees. 
Kelly said the defense as a whole, but specifically the de­fensive backs, was targeted this recruiting cycle. 
“certainly the safety, corner, third corner position on our defense,” Kelly named as the class of 2016’s biggest needs. “You know, the potential of some third-down specialists, the potential for guys to rush the passer, certainly the nickel position and safety.” 
With the large number of de­fensive backs joining the Irish, along with the openings on the depth chart from last season’s departures, Kelly said they have the best chance to earn playing time out of this year’s signing class. 
however, Kelly said he would also look to the class of 2016’s receivers to earn reps as well. notre dame inked three receiv­ers: canada’s chase claypool, 
U.s. Army All-American Javon mcKinley and early enrollee Kevin stepherson, while anoth­er target, demetris robertson, will not announce his college decision until after signing day. 
“If you’re really that good, you may not be here very long, and we hope that you’re here for four years and you stay, but you’ve got to be ready to compete,” Kelly said. “so our expectation in the recruiting process is for the wide receiver group to come in and compete to get on the field and be a play­er for us immediately, so that’s the mindset.” 
The class as a whole is ranked ninth in the country by both rivals and 247sports, 11th by scout and 13th by esPn, as of Wednesday afternoon. The state of Florida yielded a class-high six signees, most recruited by running backs coach and Florida native Autry denson, while three came from each california, michigan and Illinois. one, long snapper John shannon, is a third-gen­eration Irish player, as both his father and grandfather played football for notre dame, while two, linebacker Jamir Jones and defensive lineman Julian okwara, follow the footsteps of their brothers, current de­fensive lineman Jarron Jones and former defensive lineman romeo okwara. 
“I think it’s great,” Kelly said of continuing the Jones and okwara families’ represen­tation on the roster. “We re­cruited them the right way. We didn’t recruit them because their brothers were here. We recruited them because we thought they were players that fit here at notre dame that would be very successful. 
“but obviously it helps when their brothers have a great ex­perience here and really enjoy their notre dame experience as a student and as an ath­lete, so that helps you in the recruiting.” 
Another new push in recruit­ing that helped notre dame this year was the showtime television series “A season with notre dame Football,” accord­ing to Kelly. several players highlighted the show as a posi­tive factor in their decision to come to south bend. 
“We didn’t do it to try to change those that don’t like notre dame or are not fans of notre dame. We wanted them to respect who we are and what our student-athletes do on a day-to-day basis,” Kelly said. “so I think more than anything else, I think it gave them in­sight as to what their day is like and who they are, and I think if anything, we were able to gain a lot of respect from those that saw what the student-athletes do on a day-to-day basis.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



MEET THE CLASS OF 2016 




PARKER 
BOUDREAUX 
OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
6’5” • 291 
Bishop Moore High School Orlando, Fla. 

In 6-foot-5, 291-pound offensive line­man Parker boudreaux, the Irish find a spectacle in the consensus four-star re­cruit from orlando. As a large and pow­erful player, boudreaux should prove to be a big catch for notre dame. If it says anything about his strength, boudreaux committed to notre dame by posting a video in which he chained himself to a 16,000-pound school bus that he pulled alone to unveil his choice among his 70­plus scholarship offers. 
he’s a powerhouse run-blocker with good extension and proves technically sound across the board. Like other Irish players, boudreaux’s versatility will make him a weapon at tackle or guard at the college level. 

KHALID 
KAREEM 
DEFENSIVE END 
6’4” • 257 
Harrison High School Farmington Hills, Mich. 

Khalid Kareem was a senior defensive end at harrison high school in Farmington hills, michigan. he committed to the Irish on oct. 23 after decommitting from Alabama on oct. 14. 
According to rivals, Kareem is a four-star recruit ranked 17th in the nation among defensive ends. he is also the eighth-ranked player overall out of the state of michigan. he received 32 scholarship of­fers and decommitted from michigan state and Alabama before committing to notre dame. 
Kareem is a powerful defensive end with quick feet who can put pressure on an op­posing quarterback. Kareem recorded 56 tackles and 16 sacks his senior year and won the michigan high school defensive Player of the Year Award. 
LIAM 
EICHENBERG 
OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
6’5” • 284 
St. Ignatius High School Cleveland 
notre dame’s success in adding high-profile recruits on the offensive line con­tinued with the addition of four-star recruit Liam eichenberg. eichenberg receieved an offer from Irish offensive line coach harry hiestand in march 2014. 
eichenberg already has the rare combi­nation of both impressive size — 6-foot-5 and 284 pounds — and excellent technique, which has allowed him to become a stand­out performer for st. Ignatius high school in cleveland, particularly in pass protection, where he can make the most of his quick footwork and long arms. he faced injuries and illness over the course of his prep career and underwent surgery for a knee injury for the second time in his career last month but looks set to return to full strength. 

TOMMY 
KRAEMER 
OFFENSIVE LINEMAN 
6’5” • 310 
Elder High School Cincinnati 
recently named the Gatorade ohio Player of the Year, Tommy Kraemer provides an instant boost in talent to notre dame’s of­fensive. The first commit in notre dame’s 2016 class, Kraemer is ranked no. 41 overall and the no. 4 offensive tackle by rivals. A four-star prospect out of elder high school in cincinnati, Kraemer was an All-UsA first team selection this past season and played in the U.s. Army All-American bowl. 
At 6-foot-5, 310 pounds, Kraemer has the strength to drive opposing defensive line­men back in the running game while also possessing enough lateral quickness as a tackle to enable him to be an effective pass-blocker. Arguably the most impressive at­tributes Kraemer possesses are his strong hands, which enable him to recover quickly if he’s been beat off the edge. 
JALEN 
ELLIOTT 
SAFETY 
6’1” • 177 
Lloyd C. Bird High School Chesterfield, Va. 
After a season in which Irish depth in the defensive backfield was repeatedly tested, their resources will become more plenti­ful with the commitment of three-star defensive back Jalen elliott. The 6-foot-1, 177-pounder committed to the Irish in June despite other offers from southern power­houses like Auburn, Georgia and virginia Tech. 
elliott played a number of positions dur­ing his time in high school, and this versatili­ty earned him the no. 15 safety ranking from rivals, which also acknowledged elliott as the 12th-ranked recruit from the common­wealth of virginia in the incoming class of 2016. esPn’s scouting report emphasizes his athleticism and long body will allow him to transition to a defensive position. 

JAVON 
MCKINLEY 
RECEIVER 
6’2” • 196 
Centennial High School Corona, Calif. 
Javon mcKinley is a four-star recruit out of corona, california, ranked the no. 59 player in the nation and the 11th-best wide receiver in the class of 2016, according to rivals. mcKinley established himself as a premier wideout his junior year, haul­ing in over 2,500 yards receiving and 25 touchdowns. he finished his three-year varsity career with 3,724 yards receiving and 42 touchdowns for centennial high school, helping to lead centennial to a no. 2 ranking in california. These impres­sive numbers earned mcKinley a spot in the Army All-America Game on Jan. 9, where he committed to play for the Irish. mcKinley will help to fill a void in the Irish receiving corps next year with the depar­tures of chris brown, Amir carlisle and All-American Will Fuller. 
DAELIN 
HAYES 
LINEBACKER 
6’3” • 254 
Skyline High School Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Fans will remember his “Legendary dark Knight” video produced by bleacher report, but daelin hayes is one of notre dame’s most coveted recruits. The Ann Arbor native previously committed to Usc before officially signing with the Irish on dec. 10 and enrolling in January. 
Listed at 6-foot-3, 254 pounds, hayes undoubtedly has the size to play off the edge in notre dame’s 3-4 defense, and his rare combination of speed and power sets him apart from most edge-rushers in the 2016 class. hayes was rated a five-star re­cruit on rivals and ranked the 227th best prospect on the esPn Top 300 list. With Jaylon smith heading to the nFL draft, hayes will be competing for time at out­side linebacker during spring practice. 

JULIAN 
OKWARA 
DEFENSIVE END 
6’4” • 220 
Ardrey Kell High School Charlotte, N.C. 
Four-star defensive end Julian okwara, brother of former notre dame defen­sive end romeo okwara, is a key piece of the 2016 notre dame class. The 6-foot-4, 220-pound recruit out of charlotte, north carolina, is a great pass rusher with the combination of a quick first step, long arms and good use of his hands. A natu­ral athlete with a long frame, okwara is versatile enough to drop into coverage, while also known as a standout on special teams. 
okwara finished his senior season at Ardrey Kell high school with 84 tackles and nine sacks, while also forcing four fumbles. okwara is ranked by rivals as the nation’s no. 18 weak-side defensive end, and his skill-set potential has the chance to develop quickly at the college level. 



Irish Invasion snagging recruits earlier in process 
By ALEX CARSON 
Associate sports editor 
Aside from the near-ridiculous antics displayed by michigan head coach Jim harbaugh since taking the job, from running around shirtless at a camp to sleeping over at a recruit’s house last month, arguably the biggest recent story in the recruiting world recently has been the de­velopment of satellite camps. 
And while notre dame full well could partake in a series of satellite camps around the country, Irish head coach brian Kelly and his staff have moved in a different direction: Irish Invasion. 
held last June, the camp al­lowed notre dame to welcome more than 100 prospective re­cruits on campus in the sum­mer, rather than going to them around the country — some­thing Kelly said was key for the Irish in the recruiting process. 
“That camp is very, very im­portant, to get you on this cam­pus,” Kelly said. “You really can’t truly get to that ‘yes’ in our opin­ion if you’re reading about notre dame on the Internet. You’ve got to get on this campus. 
“ … so I think what we learned in our first couple of years is that you can go out and recruit in may, and you can talk about notre dame, and you can talk about how this is what you’re go­ing to get at notre dame. You’ve got to get them on campus, and we use that Irish Invasion as a great opportunity to get them on campus.” 
Irish recruiting analyst Andrew Ivins said notre dame’s staff weighed the idea of satel­lite camps but instead put their eggs in the basket of the Irish Invasion. 
“notre dame flirted with the idea of maybe touring around, and at the end of the day, the staff made the decision that ‘We’d rather get kids on cam­pus because we think what they have here is very unique and special,’” said Ivins, who covers notre dame recruiting for rivals.com’s blue and Gold Illustrated. “And the saying is, you’re either gonna love it or you’re gonna hate it, and I think notre dame does a very good job finding kids that they think are going to like what notre dame has to offer and getting them on campus.” 
The move paid off for the Irish this recruiting cycle, as they were able to bring a handful of recruits to campus over the summer that pledged to, and Wednesday signed for, notre dame. A pair of four-star re­cruits who could contribute for the Irish in their freshman year, safety Jalen elliott and receiver Javon mcKinley highlighted the crew that committed after at­tending Irish Invasion. 
“If you go up and down that commit list, you go through these kids’ profiles on our site … you go, ‘That kid was at the Irish Invasion, that kid was at the Irish Invasion,’” Ivins said. “I was always skeptical about notre dame waiting to get kids on campus, but I think the Irish Invasion is very unique because it’s a competitive setting, all the top kids wanted to get there. This year it really did pay off.” 
For Kelly, the camp marked the moment he knew this year’s recruiting class was going to come together after coaching changes in the offseason threat­ened to derail efforts. 
“It was pretty evident for me that we had it going [at Irish Invasion],” Kelly said. “once we got back from our may recruit­ing cycle that we had a pretty good energy in that office and that it was solidified in my mind after the Irish Invasion and the creativity that we were kind of building on at that point that we were moving in a very good direction.” 
beyond Irish Invasion, anoth­er spot notre dame’s coaches have focused on is getting play­ers committed early; 14 of the program’s signees pledged to the Irish prior to the season-opening 38-3 win over Texas on sept. 5, allowing them to chase down top recruits as national signing day approached. 
“by the time the season really started, they had a core of the class in place, and that’s allowed them to chase some of these bigger names down the stretch, knowing they already had guys in the class,” Ivins said. 
notre dame got a pledge from four-star offensive line­man Tommy Kraemer extreme­ly early in the cycle, on oct. 4, 2014, and Kelly said he expects the trend of the Irish going after players earlier to continue, not­ing junior day’s occurrence on Jan. 23 this year. 
“earliest that we’ve ever had,” Kelly said. “I think celebrat­ing junior day is getting kids on campus earlier in January. 
“ … The calendar has moved up, so you’ve got to adjust to that accordingly.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 




Defensive emphasis pays dividends for ND 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
over the past few years, notre dame has seen its de­fense decimated again and again by injury and gradu­ation, and brian Kelly has obviously taken note. This Wednesday, 13 defensive re­cruits officially signed with the Irish, the most under Kelly since 2011. 
some of the class of 2016 will have the chance to im­mediately fill the spots left by those 2011 recruits, as well as others. All told, notre dame is losing six of its 2015 defensive starters to gradu­ation or the nFL draft, as well as veterans matthias Farley and Jarrett Grace, two key reserves. To take their place, Kelly already has tal­ent on campus, according to Andrew Ivins, an Irish re­cruiting analyst for rivals. com affiliate blue and Gold Illustrated. 
“If you’re looking for two guys who have a chance of definitely seeing playing time next year, it’s two of the early enrollees, defensive end Khalid Kahreem and safety devin studstill,” Ivins said. “obviously notre dame has a really big need at safety ... they’re kind of dinged up there, and studstill is kind of an under-ranked player on campus early. I think he has the chance to work his way into the rotation.” 
Kelly did list the safety po­sition as one of his team’s top needs with the graduation of elijah shumate and Farley, as well as cornerback, where the Irish are losing Keivarae russell. All told, notre dame has seven defensive backs in the class of 2016, includ­ing four-star recruits Jalen elliott, d.J. morgan, donte vaughn and Troy Pride, Jr. 
And while notre dame has not been a program where freshmen have come in and made an immediate impact in the past, that is changing under Kelly, and the chance to play immediately was a selling point to defensive backs on the recruiting trail, Ivins said. 
“I think they’ve done a good job in the past few cy­cles under brian Kelly of tell­ing kids, ‘hey, we’re going to play freshmen if you’re good enough,’” Ivins said. “ … so notre dame really pitched it to the defensive backs, that was the kind of situation it was.” 
but the secondary is far from the only area notre dame needed to shore up heading into national signing day. With Jaylon smith’s decision to depart for the nFL a year early, the Irish linebacking corps lost a combined 216 tackles from last year’s squad in the form of smith, Grace and Joe schmidt. Kelly only has six returning scholarship play­ers at linebacker, and the Irish added three more this recruiting cycle. Ivins said the possibility of rising up the depth chart early was an incentive at that position as well. 
In particular, five-star linebacker daelin hayes was attracted to notre dame by that very possibility, Ivins said. hayes, the top-rated prospect in notre dame’s 2016 class, decommitted from Usc earlier in the re­cruiting cycle, and Ivins said 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



in addition to the promise of playing time, hayes was also drawn to notre dame by Kelly’s overall vision for the program and his place in it. 
“At the end of the day, daelin hasn’t played a lot of football,” Ivins said. “he says he wants to play, but he’s had some shoulder injuries, and I think he just felt very comfortable with what notre dame wants to do with him. he felt very comfortable with the staff. so part of it was playing time, more of it was just what he sees at notre dame and the big picture.” 
The Irish did miss out on one of the top linebackers in the nation, five-star prospect caleb Kelly. on Wednesday evening, he announced his commitment to oklahoma, despite a late push from notre dame that included a personal visit from Kelly. still, with hayes and two other linebackers in the fold, Ivins said, the Irish managed to plug one of their biggest holes on defense. 
but one of notre dame’s best areas in the current class is along the defensive line, Ivins said. Kareem was once committed to Alabama and is ranked as one of the top-20 defensive ends in the country. After years of fail­ing to secure a top-rated end, Kareem’s commitment was a massive grab for the Irish, Ivins said. 
even without Kareem or hayes, notre dame at least have some familiar names on the defensive side in this year’s class. Julian okwara, the younger brother of for­mer defensive lineman romeo okwara, is a four-star defensive end who has the potential to develop into a “sack artist” in a few years, Ivins said. 
At linebacker, Jamir Jones is a three-star recruit and younger brother of defensive lineman Jarron Jones. Ivins said Jones could potentially switch to defensive end later on in his career. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 





Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
IAN 
BOOK 
QUARTERBACK 
6’0” • 193 
Oak Ridge High School El Dorado Hills, Calif. 

Quarterback Ian book hails from oak ridge high school in el dorado hills, california, and committed to notre dame in August of last year. book is at his most comfortable in the pocket, where he has the field vi­sion and arm strength to break down defenses. however, when the pocket breaks down, books can still create as he has the speed to elude defenders, and his arm strength gives his receiv­ers the freedom to be aggressive on deep balls. 
book, listed at 6-feet tall and 193 pounds, also runs the read-option from time to time. book is the only quarterback in notre dame’s incom­ing freshman class. 

ADETOKUNBO 
OGUNDEJI 
DEFENSIVE END 
6’5” • 220 
Central High School Walled Lake, Mich. 

Adetokunbo ogundeji began mak­ing waves later in the recruiting pro­cess, catching notre dame’s attention early in the summer. ogundeji origi­nally committed to Western michigan, but when Irish defensive line coach Keith Gilmore reached out to ogundeji and offered him a scholarship on June 25, the 6-foot-5, 220 pounder quick­ly changed his tune. Two days later, ogundeji visited notre dame’s cam­pus, and he committed July 16. 
ogundeji uses a quick burst off the line and his size to move offensive linemen out of the way and get to the inside of blocks, while his length en­sures runners have a hard time finding a way around him. 
ogundeji will need to put on some weight after he arrives on campus, but he has a lot of raw talent to work with over the coming years. 
Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
CHASE 
CLAYPOOL 
RECEIVER 
6’5” • 215 
Abbotsford High School Abbotsford, Canada 
A four-star recruit at receiver, chase claypool is also the top play­er out of canada. Listed at 6-foot­5 and 215 pounds with a 40-time of 
4.60 seconds, he can flat-out play while leaving undersized defenders in his wake. In high school, claypool played on both sides of the ball and returned kicks for the Abbotsford Panthers, and he seemed to be the best player on the field no matter the position. 
he may not even be the top player at his position coming to campus in the fall after joining a deep class at receiver for notre dame, but don’t be surprised if he makes an impact sooner rather than later. 

SPENCER 
PERRY 
SAFETY 
6’3” • 202 
IMG Academy Bradenton, Fla. 
A three-star prospect by most out­lets, spencer Perry has been commit­ted to notre dame since late June. Perry originally was committed to Florida but flipped his commitment after visiting notre dame over the summer. At 6-foot-3 and 202 pounds, he projects as a safety in the Irish de­fense. one of Perry’s most recogniz­able skills is his speed: his 40-yard dash time has been clocked at 4.49 seconds. Perry’s skill in coverage and ability to adapt to notre dame’s com­plicated defensive schemes remain question marks. 
Given the graduation of elijah shumate, Perry could be in a position to earn playing time in 2016, as notre dame will have a mix of safety op­tions. he hails from Auburn, Alabama, though he attended ImG Academy in bradenton, Florida, for high school. 
Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
JAMIR 
JONES 
LINEBACKER 
6’4” • 210 
Aquinas Institute Rochester, N.Y. 
Joining his brother, Jarron, in making the jump from the Little Irish of Aquinas Institute to the Fighting Irish of notre dame, Jamir Jones is rated as a three-star recruit. The no. 3 prospect coming out of new York according to rivals, Jones is a versatile player. While playing tight end, linebacker and defensive end, Jones had 26 catches for 551 yards and seven touchdowns in addition to 58 tackles, 15 tackles for loss, 5.5 sacks and a fumble re­covery all in his team’s undefeated 2015 season. 
At 6-foot-4 and 210 pounds, Jones’ greatest strength comes in rushing the passer. currently on the path for outside linebacker, time will tell if he makes the switch to the defensive front. 

TROY 
PRIDE, JR. 
CORNERBACK 
6’0” • 165 
Greer High School Greer, S.C. 
The 6-foot, 165-pound cornerback re­cruit from Greer, south carolina, chose the Irish over a host of schools, includ­ing clemson, south carolina, Unc and virginia Tech. Troy Pride, Jr., was ini­tially committed to the hokies but de­committed after long-time head coach Frank beamer announced he was retir­ing and later committed to notre dame on christmas eve, adding to an already loaded incoming class. 
The four-star recruit is ranked as the no. 23 corner in the class of 2016 by rivals, and he was recently voted defensive mvP of the blue-Grey All-American bowl for his two-interception performance. Pride is a shutdown cor­ner who has an eye for the big play, and he has good size and athleticism for the collegiate level. he should have a big impact for the Irish in the years to come. 
Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
JONATHAN 
JONES 
LINEBACKER 
6’0” • 207 
Oak Ridge High School Orlando, Fla. 
Listed at 6-feet and 207 pounds, Jonathan Jones brings an athletic presence to the middle of the defense. A three-star middle linebacker from oak ridge high school in orlando, Florida, he chose the Irish over rival michigan at the last minute on signing day. he also had offers from schools like Florida, Georgia, LsU, miami and oklahoma. 
Jones can impact the game in a variety of ways on the defensive side of the ball with his punishing physical style and sur­prising quickness, which he used to create multiple defensive touchdowns during his senior year. With the Irish losing a number of players from the center of the defense, Jones could find himself on the field early in his career. 

JOHN 
SHANNON 
LONG SNAPPER 
6’2” • 235 
Loyola Academy Wilmette, Ill. 
A 6-foot-2 long snapper out of Loyola Academy just north of chicago, John shannon became the notre dame class of 2016’s second commit when he announced his intentions at Junior day last year. shannon’s fa­ther, Gerard, and grandfather, dan, both suited up for the Fighting Irish. 
representing one of the more un­heralded positions on the field, shannon is ranked as the top long snapper recruit in the class of 2016 by rivals thanks to his stellar high school career as a long snapper. shannon has also demonstrated the ability to be a special teams impact player, getting down the field quickly and making tackles. he closed out his high school career with a state title before traveling to represent the east in the U.s. Army All-American bowl. 




Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
TONY 
JONES, JR. 
RUNNING BACK 
6’1” • 212 
IMG Academy Bradenton, Fla. 

hailing from bradenton, Florida, and the prestigious ImG Academy, running back Tony Jones, Jr., will fit right in the Irish backfield. Jones, ranked 21st overall for running backs by rivals, totaled 771 rushing yards and 12 touchdowns on just 66 carries his junior year. 
Praised by scouts for his college-ready size, Jones relies more on his strength than elusiveness to get through the de­fense. however, once he gets in the open field, Jones has the speed to breakaway as fast as any recruit in the nation. even though he will join the team with estab­lished runners ahead of him, Jones, like Josh Adams before him, can prove to be invaluable if any of the backs ahead of him go down. 

KEVIN 
STEPHERSON 
RECEIVER 
6’1” • 180 
First Coast High School Jacksonville, Fla. 

In a recruiting class loaded with talent, notre dame has secured an­other receiver in Kevin stepherson. The 6-foot-1, 180-pound receiver comes from First coast high school in Jacksonville, Florida, where he posted terrific stats in the past couple of years, drawing offers from schools such as michigan state and Georgia Tech. 
he has a playing style that em­phasizes his strong ability to get downfield and elevate to high-point the football. stepherson is the 66th­ranked player at his position accord­ing to rivals, coming in as the 58th overall prospect from the state of Florida. stepherson committed to the Irish back in June after an unofficial visit. he came for his official visit in october and is enrolled at notre dame as of Jan. 12. 
Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
JULIAN 
LOVE 
CORNERBACK 
5’11” • 175 
Nazareth Academy LaGrange Park, Ill. 
Three-star cornerback Julian Love mea­sures in at 5-foot-11 and 175 pounds, a solid size for his position. Love chose the Irish over offers from boston college, northwestern and Iowa, among others, and hails from nazareth Academy, a catholic prep school outside of chicago. 
In high school, Love played offense, defense and special teams and has been compared by many to former notre dame defensive back-turned-receiver-turned-running back 
c.J. Prosise. Love could be a candidate to slide over to safety or switch to the offensive side of the ball for the Irish. Love is also a proven winner, having led nazareth to back-to-back Illinois state championships his junior and senior seasons, and he will look to help the Irish back to the top in the coming years. 

DEVIN 
STUDSTILL 
ATHLETE 
6’1” • 183 
Palm Beach Gardens High School Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. 
A high three-star athlete, devin studstill committed to notre dame on dec. 15. he played safety at Palm beach Gardens high school in Palm beach Gardens, Florida, the same alma mater as notre dame freshman linebacker Te’von coney. studstill was the 20th commit in the 2016 class and the fifth from the state of Florida. 
ranked by rivals as the no. 45 ath­lete in the country, studstill offers special versatility in the open field. notre dame’s class of 2016 features six current defensive back recruits, a position group that will require young talent following the loss of talented leaders matthias Farley, Keivarae russell and elijah shumate. studstill is one of five early-enrollees at the University, setting him up for a po­tentially significant role in the Irish defense this fall. 
Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
DEON 
MCINTOSH 
RUNNING BACK 
5’10” • 175 
Cardinal Gibbons High School Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
The 5-foot-10, 175-pound running back from cardinal Gibbons high school in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, committed to notre dame on nov. 16. scout ranks deon mcIntosh as the 35th-best tailback in the country and the fifth-best running back in the state of Florida. 
Initial scouting reports show him to be a versatile player with soft hands out of the backfield as well as the ability to be dan­gerous at slot receiver. mcIntosh’s run­ning game is one of his biggest assets, and his slippery movement on the field makes him difficult to bring down. mcIntosh’s highlight videos demonstrate his ability to glide through defenses effectively and tenaciously as well as a willingness to push for every inch on the field. 

DONTE’ 
VAUGHN 
SAFETY 
6’2” • 195 
Whitehaven High School Memphis, Tenn. 
The 20th-ranked safety recruit ac­cording to rivals, donte’ vaughn is a four-star prospect listed at 6-foot-2 and 195 pounds and com­mitted to the Irish on oct. 12. he had 15 total offers, including oregon, michigan, ohio state and Texas A&m. 
based on his measurements and on notre dame’s needs in the sec­ondary, vaughn is best project­ed as a safety. despite his lack of elite speed, vaughn makes up for it with his tenacious tackling and grit. At Whitehaven high school in memphis, Tennessee, vaughn hauled in three interceptions and showcased his strength in run sup­port. With the loss of elijah shumate, vaughn will be one of the candidates looking to fill the void in the safety rotation and make an immediate im­pact in 2016. 
Photo courtesy of Blue & Gold Illustrated, Rivals 
D.J. 
MORGAN 
SAFETY 
6’3” • 200 
St. John Bosco High School Bellflower, Calif. 
d.J. morgan, a four-star safety from bellflower, california, committed to notre dame in late september. morgan began his high school football career as a receiver but missed his freshman season due to in­jury. he made the move to safety his soph­omore year and quickly left his mark. The 6-foot-3 defensive back originally commit­ted to play at Arizona state but changed his mind in July. 
notre dame runs in the family for d.J. morgan, as his cousin is former notre dame women’s basketball legend skylar diggins. notre dame’s nationwide schedule was another aspect of the football schedule that appealed to morgan, as playing games in california will allow his mother to watch him play in person more often. 

PAId AdverTIsemenT The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

in the so touted golden age of Television, i am forced to respond negatively to “have you seen *insert culturally relevant Tv show here*?” at least three times per day. 
my tagline has morphed into, “perpetually about to watch ‘Transparent.’” so, when “The skinny,” a bite-sized web-series produced by Jill soloway (creator of “Transparent”), presented itself via a ban­ner ad on refinery29, i decided to give it a go. 
The miniseries premiered at sundance in January and is a collaboration be­tween female-focused web-content platforms refinery29 and wifey.Tv (the latter cofounded by soloway). The sea­son’s six episodes range from 10 to 14 minutes, resembling hit web-series “high maintenance” and “broad city” in both structure and potential. 
you might recognize star Jessie Kahnweiler from her unconventional, politically-charged youTube content — in­cluding a video that made the Facebook rounds when she attempted to get arrested, testing her white privilege. as well as star­ring, Kahnweiler created, wrote, directed and produced the series, which is touted as “an original dark comedy series that fol­lows feminist wannabe youTube star Jessie as she explores love, life and friendship 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

it may be only death and taxes that one can expect with the same confidence as a new Ty segall album. in the past eight years, he’s released seven solo albums, another one with his “Ty segall band,” several “Ty rex” cover albums, multiple al­bums with his longtime collaborator mikal cronin as “Fuzz,” as well as countless other singles, side-projects, and collaborations. one Jan. 22, Ty segall released his eighth album, entitled “emotional mugger,” on drag city records. Ty’s speed and intensity when it comes to releasing records trans­lates over into the music itself: he’s become the king of deep, dark, fuzzy garage rock. 
as he’s gained fame and notoriety in the musical world, Ty has been able to tighten the focus of his creative process. his records are increasingly more cohe­sive in sound, lyrical content, and the re­lation between the two: a trait missing both in his earlier discography, as well as in the genre of garage rock in general. 2015’s “manipulator” was a lighter, more glamorous lp than anything Ty had pre­viously released and dealt directly with what the title suggests: songs explore the in l.a. — while struggling with bulimia.” (The description begs for a comma after “feminist.”) 
bulimia is often an illness merely al­luded to — if addressed at all — in media. while the series finds warranted humor in just about every aspect of Jessie’s life, the binge and purge scenes are devastatingly visceral. pulling from the golden age Tv shows i have watched, this aspect of the plot — addressing a serious and under-rep­resented mental illness — mirrors the af­fecting, paramount portrayal of gretchen’s clinical depression on “you’re The worst.” 
Kahnweiler, whose Twitter bio reads “i can’t afford therapy so i make film,” ad­dressed this aspect of the plot in an inter­view with refinery29: “you’re showing why a person would puke, at what point, what are the triggers, what is it like after, what do you get from it ... ‘The skinny’ [is] a comedy, but there’s nothing funny about eating disorders. if you’ve had an eating disorder, it’s [expletive] hell.” 
The show’s colorful, messy and hypnotic title sequence is set to “paradise girls” by deerhoof, providing the feminist mantra “girls, who are smart / girls, who play the bass guitar / girls, who will test.” Fittingly, Jessie is tested moments after the sequence ends — she picks up her boyfriend, cole, from rehab as he flirtatiously bids good­bye to another patient and the two return home to a showy surprise party Jessie’s 
idea and actions of people in our lives who manipulate others to get what they want. “emotional mugger” is a natural continuation of that thought process, but with a massive pendulum swing, sonically speaking. dark, disturbing, and at times jarring, the album is filled with creepy pro­gressions, dissonant instrumentals and aggressively intrusive vocals from start to finish. 
and that’s nothing compared to the lyr­ics. segall experiments with the idea of ob­jectifying the validation and attention we receive from other people to fill the holes in our egos. he fills his songs with vague sexual imagery, “i’m stuck in my old shoes waiting/For that finger feeling/come on over babe” (“squealer”) and fixates on the metaphor of “queens” whom dominate our headspace and become the subjects of our alienation and the objects of our desire. Thrown in for good measure is an enigmatic, overarching thematic referral to an insatiable desire for candy; in the title track, segall declares, “i am the emotional mugger/like a bag of candy/give you pleasures.” 
Ty is hell-bent on getting the conceptual message of “emotional mugger” across. before the release of the album, he stood up mom has thrown to their disarrayed dis­may — and the tests don’t let up through­out the whole season. 
Jessie closely resembles ilana glazer from “broad city”: both have a raw sense of humor that began with content on youTube, both of their eyes frequently lean back in exasperation — usually at the patriarchy or over-priced sushi — and both of their wardrobes consist of T-shirts worn as dresses and jumpers that elicit the phrase “holy cameltoe.” The overlap is there, and importantly so — the golden age of Television needs more of these real women. 
Jessie is not posed as a likable charac­ter. The audience has moments, especially profound in the final episode, where they can’t reason with Jessie’s seemingly selfish decisions. There are times we laugh with her, times we laugh at her, times we cry with her and times we cry for her, but never can we nor should we fully rationalize her decisions. 
The idea of the likable female and, even more dangerously, the likable feminist, is explored in the third episode, “squad.” Jessie’s new friend/agent stuart shows one of her boundary-pushing youTube vid­eos to brand representatives. The clip, in which Jessie proposes to “screw” a vet for veteran’s day to parallel how “screwed” most vets are socially and financially, elicits minimal claps and comments like: 
the website emotionalmugger.com, which features a video of him and bandmates in the studio, playing from the album while wearing masks of crying babies. it also fea­tures a camp-y video starring “dr. Ty segall, md,” who explains emotional mugging as “psycho-analytical subject to subject ex­change formed as a response to a hyper-digital sexual landscape.” additionally, the website flashes the number for the emotional mugger hotline, which, when called, plays a message imitating a phone-sex line: “i am itching to hear how i can fill the holes in your ego. do you need a daddy? do you need a baby? do you have a child? do you have a lover?” (spoken by segall). 
additionally, segall released a 14-min­ute music video featuring clips and isolat­ed channels of content from the album: a chilling, ultra-disturbing video featuring segall wandering los angeles encounter­ing police brutality, the bizarrely depicted drug-overdose of a prostitute and a cult of people who spend their time stand­ing in a room, staring at an amorphous blob of what can be assumed to represent digital media as a whole. over the course of the video, the cult members’ eyes are grotesquely sealed shut as they willingly replace them with the screens of their “There are no bones for monetization in this product,” and “no one likes women that real.” The feedback duplicates the comments her videos receive on youTube and social media. 
although stuart poses Jessie as “female­branded content” (paralleling the above-mentioned initiatives for successful media companies like refinery29 and wifey.Tv) and claims “real women are the next wave of clickbait,” Jessie is shut down. The inte­gration of Kahnwelier’s original youTube content into the series works to further her characterization — although the show is not meant to be fully autobiographical. The amalgamation of original and scripted work again resembles “broad city” and the creative ways the show’s producers have tied in original youTube content via abbi and ilana’s web chats. 
“The skinny” is concisely and amusingly poignant: The season clocks in at less than an hour. with production by soloway and backers like refinery29, the initiative that was started by $12,000 in Kickstarter dona­tions is poised to take off as an important piece of today’s media. whether the series continues online or enters the golden age of Tv, “The skinny” is an easy binge-watch 
— that will importantly, if humorously, have you reconsidering that phrase. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
smartphones. as if that weren’t enough, segall’s face gradually becomes covered with boils, his eyes and hair fall out, and he eventually stumbles, deformed and dripping blood, onto the beach. 
The concepts explored in this album are a disturbing view of human interac­tion, magnified by segall’s unflinching depiction of them. wrestling with how the digital age affects our relationships and psyches, “emotional mugger” is worth exploring if you are interested in thinking about how you use and are used by others in a society which increasingly focuses on the quantity over quality of people, events and impressions in our lives. 
Contact Thom Behrens at                    tbehren@nd.edu 
“Emotional Mugger” 
Ty Segall 
Label: Drag City Tracks: “Mandy Cream” “Candy Sam” If you like: Thee Oh Sees, King Tuff 



LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: your ability to relate to others and bring peace to tumultuous situations will encourage advancement. a change regarding your reputation, status or position is favored, but will also be more time-consuming, causing exhaustion and poor relationships with those who are counting on you. Think before you make a promise that can be difficult to honor. your numbers are 1, 9, 14, 20, 23, 31, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take charge by exhibiting discipline and embracing the changes you want to make without concern for what others think. speaking your mind will help you gain confidence and reach your goals. you will be surprised by an offer. get what you want in writing. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep an open mind and you will be given privileged information that will help you get what you want. a new skill you pick up or an experience you have will make your peers take notice and help you attract a partner.  

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take your career seriously. someone you work with could cause you grief. don’t waste your time arguing, as it will make you look bad and deter you from doing your job. don’t give in to bullying or blackmail. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): make unusual changes at home that will surprise your friends and family and make your place the destination everyone wants to visit. a relationship you have with someone will help you expand your interests. love is on the rise. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you are ready to take on the world. make sure to dedicate time to being and doing the best you can. a partnership looks interesting and will provide you with some innovative ideas that will lead to good fortune. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): indulge in something that excites you. surround yourself with people who share your curiosity. avoid emotional situations or someone who puts too many demands on you. re-evaluate your current living arrangements. Focus on romance, not discord. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): pick up information and learn all you can about an interest you have. someone you encounter who is inspirational and fun to be with will improve your attitude. avoid anyone who is trying to dictate what you can and cannot do. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you can gain ground, whether traveling, learning or making an effort to raise your popularity. your intuition will help you bring about positive changes. what you do for others will result in an unusual turn of events. romance is highlighted. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): emotional matters will surface if you try to evade issues or if you aren’t honest about the way you feel. your best efforts will come from home improvement projects or making adjustments to your living arrangements that will improve your personal life. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): someone from your past will remind you of a dream you once pursued. Turn back the clock and update your idea to fit the current economic trends. romance is on the rise, and making special plans for two is highlighted. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a change of plans will work in your favor. check out a job offer or consider a change in your vocational direction. what you have to offer will tie in nicely to a movement that is growing in your community. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): don’t limit what you can do. Find out what’s required to pursue your dreams and pick up the skills, qualifications or education required to follow through with your plans. someone you’ve worked with in the past will help you get ahead. 

Birthday Baby: you are open-minded, disciplined and adaptable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  




SPORTS AUTHORITY 

New stars are emerging all over 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
perhaps it is too early say, but this year certainly feels like a transition between eras in the american sporting world. The old guard that has represented the sporting interests of the american public for so long are, after what feels like an eternity for any 20-something-year-old sports fan like myself, are pre­paring their retirement speech­es, and their roles as the faces of their respective franchises and leagues are being reclaimed by a new generation of sports heroes. 
conversation surrounding peyton manning’s future in the nFl has arguably overshad­owed talk of the impending super bowl that the legendary quarterback is meant to play in. 
nba stalwart Kobe bryant looks to be on his way out after a, frankly, difficult-to-watch final season at the helm of a lakers team that once flew high­er than most but now struggles to stay above water. 
derek Jeter said goodbye to baseball not too long ago, and beloved east coast bruiser david ortiz is likely to follow suit in the near future. 
names that had become synonymous with sporting suc­cess for thousands of american fans are stepping back from the spotlight, and it feels downright strange to think about any of these games without the seem­ingly permanent presence of their respective shepherds, guiding the states of their sports further still into the future. 
when i was a much younger sports fan, the retirements of players like wayne gretzky and michael Jordan sent ripples across sporting media. i can’t recall being terribly invested in any single storyline as the careers of some of the best to ever play came to a close. now, though, i feel that i am old enough to have gained some perspective on what these play­ers have meant for their leagues. it is a melancholy thing, to see legends retire — but luckily, the state of the american sporting world is falling into well-pre­pared hands indeed. 
perhaps the second most common plot line of this year’s super bowl, behind manning’s imminent retirement, is the meteoric rise of presumptive nFl mvp cam newton. charismatic, hugely popular and almost impossibly talented, the former dual-threat cor­nerback at auburn has taken the nFl by storm — and has contributed a great deal to the somewhat surprising rise of the carolina panthers into the pan­theon of the nFl’s consistently good teams. newton’s game is not manning’s game — the georgia native’s blistering speed and power, both in his arm and through his legs, contribute to a very different style of quarter­back play than one has come to expect from manning and his contemporaries. That is not to say that one is better — both are great, but each is undeni­ably unique. so too go their personalities on the sideline and outside of the stadium. whereas manning’s game has always been one of quiet assurance and almost cerebral swagger, newton’s attitude is full of en­ergy and mirth. 
This year’s super bowl may or may not be a good match-up. That will depend on far more than the playstyles and personalities of the two men lining up under center this coming sunday. still, there is a more symbolic element to the game that transcends its outcome. sunday’s super bowl represents a passing of the torch from one bona fide legend to a superstar in the making. we have seen similar emergences in other sports — stephen curry is single-handedly reinventing pro basketball, while the likes of bryce harper, p.K. subban and Jordan spieth are occupying vacancies left by former greats in their respective sports. 
There is no shortage of great athletes in the world, and this changing of the guard will likely not mean sweeping changes to the sports in which they partici­pate. still, every league craves a champion, a paragon of the values and talents required to succeed within their ranks. This year, several new superstars are finally coming into their own and claiming their titles as the faces of north american sport. play into his legacy too. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | Kansas 77, Kansas sTaTe 59 
Kansas tramples in-state rival Kansas state 
Associated Press 
lawrence, Kansas — perry ellis scored 19 points, svi mykhailiuk and devonte graham added 10 points apiece and no. 7 Kansas pulled away from turnover-prone Kansas state, 77-59 on wednesday night. 
dominated on the glass all night, the Jayhawks (18­4, 6-3 big 12) were able to overcome their poor re­bounding and some streaky shooting in part by forcing the wildcats (13-9, 2-7) into 23 turnovers. 
Kansas guard wayne selden Jr., who had a ca-reer-best 33 points in last saturday’s overtime victory against Kentucky, was shut out in the first half before finishing with seven points. Fellow guard Frank mason iii was just 1 of 5 from the field and contributed eight points. 
still, it was enough to give Kansas its 36th consecutive victory at allen Fieldhouse. 
stephen hurt had 14 points and 11 rebounds for the wildcats, who have not won at Kansas since 2006 — three coaches ago. wesley iwundu added 15 points but also had six turnovers. 
perhaps it was a Kentucky hangover, or the fact that Kansas state is one of the few big 12 teams that aren’t ranked in the Top 25, but the Jayhawks looked sleepy and disinterested for much of the game. 
eventually, ellis and mykhailiuk knocked down 3s to help start a first-half run, and mason balanced out his balky shot with some hustle that created plays for others. after one hard landing, the guard got up to find the white sleeve cover­ing his right calf and knee soaked through with blood. 
meanwhile, the wildcats slowly began to lose their composure. 
after mason’s basket with 12 seconds to go, hurt turned the ball over on the inbounds play, sending Kansas state coach bruce weber into an uproar. he stormed across the court af­ter one of the officials and appeared to be close to get­ting a technical foul before assistants reined him in. 
he wasn’t any happi­er when brannen greene knocked down a 3-pointer and was fouled, convert­ing a rare four-point play with 2 seconds left that gave Kansas a 39-29 lead. 
Kansas state trimmed its deficit to 47-45 on a basket by d.J. Johnson with just under 12 minutes to go, but selden answered with a 3 from the wing and a layup off an alley-oop pass. That kicked off one more big run that allowed the Jayhawks to seize control with about 10 minutes to go. 
Tip-Ins 
Kansas state: pg Kamau stokes did not play after hurting his right knee in last saturday’s win over mississippi. ... The wildcats had a 36-21 rebounding ad­vantage. ... Kansas state is 1-6 in road games. 
Kansas: c hunter mickelson did not play while dealing with a high ankle sprain. ... landen lucas, who fouled out, had eight points and six rebounds. ... Kansas was 16 of 22 from the free throw line. 
NBA | warriors 134, wiZards 121 
Curry, Warriors extend streak to eight in a row 
Associated Press 
washingTon — Following one of his worst offensive games this season, reign­ing nba mvp stephen curry stopped thinking about bas­ketball and recalibrated his mind. it worked out just fine. 
curry was all systems go wednesday night as he made 11 3-pointers and scored 51 points to lead the golden state warriors past the washington wizards 134-121 for their eighth straight vic­tory, which came in spite of a monster performance from John wall. 
wall scored a season-best 41 points in the shadows as curry shot 13 of 14 for 36 points in the best first half of his career. after scoring just 13 points sunday at new york, curry was in a zone, tying gilbert arenas and michael Jordan for the verizon center record and reaching 50 for the second time this season. 
“The shots that you know feel good go in, and some of the shots that you’re like, ‘oh that’s off,’ they end up go­ing in,” curry said. “it’s a fun feeling, and you want to ride that until you can’t anymore.” 
curry looked human when he missed seven of 10 shots during the third quarter but was dominant most of the night as the warriors (45-4) matched the 1966-67 philadelphia 76ers for the best 49-game start in nba history. 
“it’s like Kobe (bryant) when he had 81,” wall said. “he couldn’t miss. you keep defending the best way you can. we challenged some shots. he didn’t have too many open looks. he just made them.” 
curry’s 5 of 17 shooting per­formance against the Knicks was all forgotten by the end of this game. not like coach steve Kerr was worried. 
“i didn’t know steph was in a slump,” Kerr said. “steph’s never in a slump.” 
curry made his first six shots from the floor and was feeling it, especially from 3-point territory. he came one 3 short of tying the sin­gle-game record, and though it was on his mind, he didn’t start popping shots just to reach it as the game got out of hand. 
“i was kind of searching but not trying to force with where the game was,” curry said. “you can’t mess around with the basketball gods trying to chase a record if the game doesn’t call for it.” 
The game called for plen­ty of baskets because of 18 golden state turnovers, in­cluding seven from curry. Kerr said that needs to change if the warriors want to defend their nba title. 
many of those turnovers turned into points for wall, who shot 17 of 25 and added 10 assists to set the tone for the wizards (21-26), who led early but never got closer than two after the first quarter. 
“i was just being aggressive and doing whatever shots i had,” wall said. “it was just a fast-paced game. (i was) also attacking the basket and get­ting to the rim a little bit.” 
wall was doing all those things, but curry was doing it all. he finished 19 of 28 and 11 of 26 from 3 but was still kicking himself for the turn­overs more than reveling in the points. 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FENCING 

Irish head to Durham for Duke Duals 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame travels to durham, north carolina, to take the strip in the duke duals starting saturday. 
This past weekend, the second-ranked women’s and men’s squads compet­ed against several strong programs, including penn, penn state, ohio state and princeton — all of whom are ranked in the top 10 on both the men and women’s side — in the northwestern duals at castellan Family Fencing center. 
over the two days, the men finished 11-1, dropping only their match against no. 3 penn, while the women fin­ished 12-0. after the nyu invitational and st. John’s duals were canceled the prior weekend due to weather, the irish needed to come away with a strong performance at the northwestern duals, head coach gia Kvaratskhelia said. 
“The meet was already big with penn and princeton, plus northwestern on the women’s side,” Kvaratskhelia said. “it became extra im­portant once we added ohio state to our bouting schedule and once penn state agreed to come.” 
Following the meet, Kvaratskhelia said he was impressed by several things he saw from his program over the weekend. 
“i was pleased with our performance,” Kvaratskhelia said. “The men losing to penn was disappointing, especial­ly when we were up 13-9 and only needed one more bout, but the men bounced back immediately and emphati­cally [beating uc san diego, 23-4.] They showed me some­thing that i think we can build on for the future. 
“For the big ‘spotlight’ matches — ohio state, penn state and the northwestern women’s match — our kids came out focused and almost ravenous. it was fantastic.” 
now, with the duke duals representing the team’s fi­nal action before the acc championship, the irish turn their focus on continuing to improve and find success in 
another  challenging  meet,  
Kvaratskhelia said.  
“The  duke  duals  are  a  

special meet; they’re put on in an exquisite fashion,” Kvaratskhelia said. “The ven­ue is almost cauldron-like; it can get very warm, and it will get very, very loud. add to that conference rivals like duke and north carolina, plus penn state and Temple’s women. and brandeis is also tough — well-coached, very competitive. it’s a 
tremendous challenge.”  
while his program has had  
a successful season up to this  
point, Kvaratskhelia said he  
still expects to see improve­ 
ment from his team. in fact,  
he said he believes the team  
needs to make progress ev­ 
ery step of the way and in all  
areas to not only find success  
but also maintain it, he said.  
“you always want to im­ 
prove in all facets: skill de­ 
velopment, conditioning,  
tactics, the mental game,”  
Kvaratskhelia said. “if you  
stop progressing, you re­ 
gress as a program. so far,  
we’ve been progressing ev­ 
ery event. we want to keep  
on that trajectory all the way  
through ncaas.”  
Kvaratskhelia said the team  
as a whole was impressive  
this past weekend, but there  
were several individuals on  
both the men and women’s  
sides who had performanc­ 
es that stuck out to him and  
who he wants to continue to  
see those competitors prog­ 
ress, he said.  
“it’s hard to single out any­ 
one; so many of our start­ 
ers came through in the big  
matches,” Kvaratskhelia  
said. “but to mention a few:  
[sophomore sabre] Jonathan  
Fitzgerald kept us in the  
match against ohio state as  
the score see-sawed down  
the stretch. [sophomore sa­ 
bre] Jonah shainberg and  
[senior sabre] John hallsten  
were huge against penn  to [freshman foil] sabrina  additionally, the men’s  
state, as were [junior foil]  massialas and [sophomore  team will get a big boost  
Kristjan archer and [senior  sabre] Francesca russo plus  with the return of freshman  
epee] garrett mcgrath.  the great leadership we’re  foil axel Kiefer, who returns  
“on the women’s side,  getting from [senior epee]  from competing in the Junior  
[freshman epee madeline]  catherine lee and [senior  world cup this past week­ 
antekeier has come up  foil nicole] mcKee, and you  end, Kvaratskhelia said.  
huge for us; her develop- can see why the women are  “axel is a huge element of  
ment is a big sign. add that  doing so well.”  whatever success we have;  

paid adverTisemenT 


i expect a big day from him on saturday,” Kvaratskhelia said. 
The duke duals are set to begin saturday at card gym in durham. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame, Illinois set for rematch 

By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 
The irish continue to grind through their grueling early season schedule this week­end looking for revenge when they take on 12th­ranked illinois this Friday at the atkins Tennis center in champaign, illinois. 
This will mark the second time notre dame (2-3) and illinois (4-1) have played each other this year, as the illini downed the irish, 4-0, in the opening round of the iTa Kickoff weekend on Jan. 22. The irish struggled across the board that day, as notre dame’s top doubles pair of seniors alex lawson and Quentin monaghan, 
paid adverTisemenT 


ranked sixth nationally, de­feated illinois’ pairing of senior Jared hiltzik and red-shirt junior alex Jesse, 7-5. 
This time, however, irish head coach ryan sachire’s squad looks to turn the ta­bles on the illini and bring a halt to its current three-match losing streak. 
with his team again play­ing on the road and facing top-10 competition, sachire emphasized the irish need to look past last time these two teams played going into this matchup. 
“look, it’s about recog­nizing that we are going to play a really good team, but also having the mindset that we’re going to win,” sachire said. “it’s about seeing the opportunity for what it’s worth and going after it.” 
The irish have hit a bit of a rough patch in the season, riding a three-match losing streak. however, all three were played away from eck Tennis pavilion and against then top-25 competition — illinois, no. 24 Tulsa and no. 25 northwestern. with this in mind, sachire said he still has supreme confidence in his team and believes the irish can compete with any­body at their best. 
“when you look at this matchup, it’s not like we’re a huge underdog,” sachire said. “i think we’ll be excit­ed to play and be willing to empty the tank and compete as hard as we can.” 
The irish look to get back to their winning ways against the illini at 7 p.m. Friday at the atkins Tennis center. 
Contact Joe Everett at jeveret4@bd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
surprise team in the acc this year. 
“They’re off to a really great start in league play.” 
notre dame (21-1, 9-0) will play at purcell pavilion for the first time in 11 days after trips to georgia Tech and duke both turned out to be closer contests than expected. after impressing on offense for most of the season, notre dame struggled to score in each of the two road games. The irish scored only 54 points in beating georgia Tech on Jan. 28 and 68 in their close contest with duke on monday. 
while the irish still have the best 3-point shooting percentage in the nation, that percentage has declined in the past week. after making over 45 percent of their shots from 3-point range before traveling to atlanta, the irish made only eight of their 35 (22.8 percent) combined 3-point attempts in those two games. mcgraw said she hoped to more effectively uti­lize the inside game on offense and sophomore forward brianna Turner in particular. 
“i think that offensively we need to work on getting into our rhythm,” mcgraw said. “we need to execute a little bit better. i think we’ll shoot better just because we’re playing at home, but i would also like to see us getting inside more. we’re not getting [Turner] enough touches.” 
mcgraw said that, given Turner’s lack of offensive oppor­tunities at duke, getting the ball to the preseason acc player of the year has been a particular focus point in practice. 
“That is an emphasis for sure,” she said. “it’s an emphasis most days, but right now, coming off of a game where she only got five shots, it’s a much bigger emphasis.” 
nc state’s offense, in con­trast, has been at its most ef­fective in recent weeks. Junior guard dominique wilson has been a key part of her team’s of­fensive improvement, scoring at least 19 points in each of her last seven games, including 31 in the overtime contest with louisville. mcgraw said the wolfpack’s shooting ability and athletic guard play will make them a particularly difficult opponent. 
“They’re just shooting the ball really well,” mcgraw said. “it’s hard to play zone against them; they have guards who are quick, they can drive the ball, and they can shoot it, so they’re a tough matchup for us.” 
despite the recent play of the wolfpack, mcgraw said she was still confident in her players, pro­vided they execute. 
“i think we could really do well if we set good screens, execute screens better, work it around a little bit more instead of being content to always just take the first quick shot and get running, because we really like transition,” mcgraw said. 
The irish and the wolfpack meet Thursday at purcell pavilion. Tip-off is slated for 7 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  doboyle1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




growth of the dolphins’ 
W Lacrosse 
M Bball 
program. 
conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 

“i have a lot of respect for this Jacksonville program,” topped the acc in caused halfpenny said. “ … They’ve 
was a true freshman who turnovers in 2015, halfpenny been building as well. Just 
topped the scoring charts said the irish offense has as we’ve been building here 
wednesday, as hurricanes come on this offseason and over my last five years, 
forward anthony lawrence will be a threat in its own Jacksonville has been build-
Jr. had 18 points on 4-for-4 right, too. ing, too. They’ve gone to 
shooting from behind the “i think that recently we’ve consecutive ncaa tourna­
3-point line. been a sort of defensive pow-ments, and they’re a very 
“he was fabulous. he re­erhouse, if you will, we’ve aggressive team; they’re a 
ally hurt us,” brey said of done a nice job of playing scrappy team. They compete 
lawrence’s performance. this aggressive style, we’ve hard.” 
“it’s one of those things been working really hard halfpenny said the 
where maybe you can live on that, and it’s something dolphins could prove to be 
with him getting some we’ve been known for,” a serious challenge for her 
looks, and you’re worried halfpenny said. “when you side, pointing to junior at-
about the other guys, and come in, you know it’s go-tacker danielle della rocca 
he jumps up and really ing to be a physical style. but as a particular player her 
hurts you.” in the offseason, we’ve re-team needs to watch out for. 
despite starting with an ally focused on our offensive “i think they have some re-
experienced quintet of ju­movement, a lot of off-ball ally nice systems and strate­
niors and seniors, brey said cutting as well as our shoot-gies,” halfpenny said. “They 
his team didn’t play experi­ing. That was an area that look like they’ll play a zone 
enced in defeat. we did identify last year that defense, and they’ve got 
“i thought we were young we wanted to improve upon some holes to fill. They’ve 
tonight,” brey said. “we and our team took it very got a brand new goalie, so we 
have another old team seriously. don’t know what to expect 
coming at us on saturday. “ … our offense, it’s a vet-there, but they do return 
i thought we were a little eran unit, it’s a mature unit. some very good players. 
young tonight. maybe we Top to bottom, the skill level “ … but really, it’s the first 
can grow up quickly here materialize. Jackson fin-freshman matt ryan scored is great, and i can’t wait to see game of the season, neither 
before the Tar heels come ished with just six points on with two seconds left to cut them showcase themselves.” one of us has much on the 
to town.” 3-for-11 shooting from the miami’s lead to the final The irish meet a other, but i know that we can 
sophomore forward field. score, 79-70. Jacksonville team that, de-expect one heck of a compe­
bonzie colson led notre Junior guard v.J. beachem The irish, who are a per-spite only entering its eighth tition. These guys are going 
dame with 17 points on dropped 14, but he shot just fect 6-0 this season follow-season of existence, has al-to fight, they’re an ncaa 
7-for-13 shooting off the 2-for-7 from behind the ing a loss, return to action ready managed to win the tournament team, they’ve 
bench but earned himself a 3-point arc, while senior saturday at home against last three atlantic sun con-proven it, and they’ve been 
technical foul in the second forward Zach auguste fol-no. 2 north carolina, who ference titles and has post-getting better every single 
half after getting in a scuf-lowed up a double-double lost monday against no. 19 ed a record of 74-24 since year.” 
fle with hurricanes senior sunday just a rebound shy louisville. espn’s college 2011. The dolphins fin-The irish will meet the 
center Tonye Jekiri. aside in coral gables, going for 12 gameday will be in town ished last season 17-3, los-dolphins at d.b. milne Field 
from colson’s performance, points and nine rebounds. saturday morning prior to ing to massachusetts in the in Jacksonville, Florida, on 
not much more worked for while the struggles of the evening’s 7 p.m. tipoff. opening round of the ncaa saturday at 4 p.m. 
the irish at the offensive notre dame’s starting five despite the ap poll rank-tournament. 
end of the floor — no other were obvious, the night may ing the Tar heels at no. 2, halfpenny said she has Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  
teammate shot better than have best been summed up the coaches poll kept north been impressed by the doboyle1@nd.edu 
50 percent while taking by junior forward austin carolina no. 1 this week, 
more than three looks from Torres’ first touches, late in giving the irish a chance to 
the field. the second half. Torres first record their first win over a 
For the second straight blew an open layup then top-ranked team since they 
road game, notre dame’s saw his follow-up attempt defeated syracuse, 67-58, 
offense looked out of blocked as the hurricanes on Jan. 21, 2012, at purcell 
sync, and the strong per-forced a jump ball with the pavilion. 
formance seen in junior possession arrow. 
guard demetrius Jackson’s having trailed by dou-Contact Alex Carson at 
return sunday failed to ble digits the entire half, acarson1@nd.edu 







The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | miami 79, nd 70 
Notre Dame falters against veteran Miami team 

By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
no. 17 miami (Fla.) rolled to a victory wednesday night in coral gables, Florida, downing notre dame 79-70 in a game in which the irish trailed by double digits for all but the final two seconds of the second half. 
while the hurricanes (17­4, 6-3 acc) led through most of the first 17 minutes, the irish (15-7, 6-4) kept things close in a tight battle. notre dame led twice as neither team was ahead by more than six for most of the opening half. 
but in the final three min­utes of the opening 20, hold­ing just a 32-29 advantage, miami made the run that gave it a double-digit lead it didn’t surrender until clos­ing time. a quick 7-0 spurt widened the hurricanes’ lead to 10 in a minute, and they continued the momen­tum to go ahead 12 at half­time, 45-33. 
notre dame wouldn’t get closer than that until the fi­nal 65 seconds of the game. 
miami maintained its ad­vantage in the second half, taking advantage of a poor game in the paint for the irish, who missed a number of looks around the bucket in the defeat. The hurricanes held their largest lead of the night with 8:06 to play, ahead 65-45, and brey threw in the towel before the un­der-4 media timeout, going to his reserves with just un­der five minutes left. 
while the irish offense, one of the nation’s top teams in efficiency, struggled on the night, the hurricanes’ didn’t. irish head coach mike brey praised the hurricanes’ veteran leadership as a key to their victory. 
“i think their maturity and age kind of showed tonight,” brey said. “we just couldn’t get enough on the defensive end to make it interesting.” 
while  miami  had  two  
redshirt  seniors,  guards  
sheldon  mcclellan  and  

angel rodriguez, and red-shirt junior forward Kamari murphy in double figures, it 
see m bball PAGE 15 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

ND starts season with experience 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame begins its 2016 season in territory that may seem distant from the cold of south bend but with plenty of familiar faces on the roster as the irish travel to atlantic sun conference member Jacksonville. 
notre dame returns 11 of 12 starters from the 2015 campaign that saw the irish finish 11-9, falling to northwestern in the second round of the ncaa tourna­ment. These returning start­ers include graduate student, Tewaaraton award finalist and first-team all-american defender barbara sullivan and her fellow first-team all-american, junior attack cortney Fortunato. Junior midfielders alex dalton and casey pearsall, second and third-team all-americans, respectively, are also among the returners for the irish. 
notre dame head coach christine halfpenny said the continuity between the 2015 
and 2016 teams has allowed 
her  squad  to  improve  over  
the offseason.  
“we  certainly  are  see­ 

ing the fruits of two, three and four years of continu­ity, of that labor, paying off,” halfpenny said. “every sin­gle player come has back this year with elevated skills. all of their skills have improved immensely individually, and now collectively you see their experience coming to­gether as they play together. 
“That’s really creating a synergy from top to bottom. i think that that there’s a full connection from our goal all the way down to the offense. i think every aspect of this team is mature, and we’re sure of ourselves. everyone trusts themselves, and they trust each other, so these two or three years of conti­nuity are really starting to pay off this season.” 
although the irish will likely field another strong defense, led by sullivan, who 
see w lacrosse PAGE 15 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
irish play host to hot wolfpack squad 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
The irish return to purcell pavilion hoping to find their offensive rhythm again, as no. 3 notre dame hosts north carolina state on Thursday night. 
nc state (16-6, 7-2 acc) comes into the game with an impressive string of results in 2016 after a slow december. The wolfpack have won sev­en of their eight games in the new year, falling only to no. 13 louisville, 92-90, in overtime and most recently dispatching in-state rival north carolina by a score of 78-49. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said nc state’s recent performances have shown it could pose a se­rious challenge to her team. 
“They’re playing really well,” mcgraw said. “They’ve got great guard play and very good 3-point shooting. They’re an athletic team, they can get up and guard, and they’re re­ally on a roll. i think they’rethe 
see w bball PAGE 14 

GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer 
Sophomore forward Brianna Turner looks to make a play during a 79-66 victory over Tennessee on Jan. 18 at Purcell Pavilion. 




