The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 93 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BridgeND sponsors education debate 
Students convene to argue for or against universal public education, increased privatization 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
students discussed the merits of education reform in a debate sponsored by bridgend Tuesday night in the mcneill room of the lafortune student center. The students participating in the debate divided into two teams, one of which argued for universal public educa­tion while the other argued for school choice and in­creased privatization. 
Those in favor of increased privatization outlined a sys­tem, which sophomore and bridgend secretary mimi Teixeira described. 
“a school takes a voucher, the voucher has a certain amount of money associated with it,” she said. 
with a voucher system, each student would receive a voucher with an equal mon­etary value, Teixera said. 
freshman liam dalton, an­other participant in favor of privatization, said competi­tion and the free market cre­ate higher quality schools. 
“i think there is an argu­ment to be made for creative destruction in the area of education,” he said. “it is the same way that we built one of the world’s greatest econo­mies. ... we had to allow busi­nesses who were not doing 
see debaTe PAGE 4 

Photo courtesy of BridgeND 
Students argue for universal public education during a debate held on Tuesday evening. The debate was sponsored by BridgeND, a bipartisan student political organization that fosters dialogue on policy issues. 



Alumna explores loss, consolation in poetry reading 
could somehow respond to the 

By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
loss of a beloved brother.” The resulting book is her 

listeners witnessed the personal elegiac journey from journey from brokenness to brokenness to consolation, consolation at a poetry read-she said. The book begins 
associate saint mary’s editor 


Lecturer reflects on life of influential theologian 
psychology, smith shappell bring the knowledge of coun-
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor said, which was an “unusual” seling and human behavior 
request in 1957. into pastoral ministry. he 
henri nouwen’s search for “many christians at that also adapted the cpe model meaning led the catholic time perceived psychology to serve a wide audience of priest and theologian to a to be an enemy of the faith, christians, from college stu-Trappist monastery, latin largely due to freud’s influ-dents to parishioners,” she america, and finally, the ence,” she said. “but nouwen said.  l’arche community, andrea believed that psychology dealt smith shappell said al­smith shappell said in a lec­
though nouwen taught at 


ing  in  carroll  auditorium  with a poem full of broken  ture Tuesday morning. The lec- 
Tuesday night at saint mary’s  descriptions,  titled  “Theory  ture, which detailed nouwen’s  
college. mary pinard, a saint  of  disappearance,” followed  roles as teacher, searcher and  
mary’s alumna and professor  by a series of poems involving  pastor, was part of the center  
of english at babson college,  the speaker talking to the lost  for social concerns research  
read from her book “portal” as  brother.  lecture series.  

prestigious institutions, pub­
lished dozens of books and 
was a popular speaker, he was 
restless. 
“he continually engaged in 

a process of discernment, a 
particular type of theological 
reflection in making decisions part of the spring season’s vis-writing a sonnet about her smith shappell, associate 
iting writer series, sponsored brother’s love of the smell director for theological re-

by the english department. 
pinard said her broth­er drowned during a freak tugboat accident in the grays harbor estuary in washington, and the event inspired the content of the collection. 
“‘portal’ is a book which started with a personal story, a story of deep loss for me, that i think blinded me from being anything but sad for a long time,” pinard said. “i worked my way through some very raw places, trying to find a voice, an elegiac voice that of diesel, a poem about film found in the pocket of his raincoat after his death and another titled “blue lath” — named after a woodworker’s tool used by her brother — among other poems, helped her move forward towards consolation, pinard said. 
“late in the series [of po­ems] is where i am trying to face the matter of my brother’s death, and to make sense of it,” pinard said. 
pinard said the image of 
see poeTry PAGE 4 

flection and summer service learning, said her interest in nouwen began upon reading his works and meeting him while she was an undergradu­ate student at notre dame. 
“i then looked forward to his visits to campus when i was working for the center for social concerns in the early years. i also served on the board of the henri nouwen society from 2005 to 2010,” she said.  
after his ordination, nouwen asked for permission from his archbishop to study with issues that were impor­tant to the church, particu­larly understanding human behavior in order to respond to the pastoral needs of humans.” 
nouwen completed his doctorate in psychology and received a fellowship at the menninger clinic in Topeka, Kansas, smith shappell said. The clinic was the birthplace of the field of “clinical pastoral education.” 
“nouwen drew upon his ex­perience as a psychologist to in light of faith,” he said. “for henri, the continuing ques­tion was, what is god calling me to do?” 

nouwen taught at yale from 1971 to 1981, and during this time he took sabbaticals at the abbey of genesee, a Trappist monastery in new york. 
“henri taught about solitude and inner freedom, but he struggled with his own com­pulsions to keep speaking, writing and teaching at a fran­tic pace. he needed to retreat 
see Theologian PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s lacrosse PAGE 16 fooTball PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Out of all the apps on your phone, which makes you procrastinate the most? 


Cornelius McGrath 
junior duncan hall 
“snapchat.” 
Meghan Callaghan 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“facebook.” 
Maddie Loftin 
freshman welsh family hall 
“facebook.” 


Emily McAuliffe 
freshman pangborn hall 
“instagram.” 
Christian Frederickson 
freshman 
dillon hall 
“labarchives.” 
Brennen Roetzel 
freshman dillon hall 
“netflix.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
catherine owers Kit loughran 

Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
andrea vale ben padanilam megan valley elizabeth greason 
Graphics Scene 

susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Viewpoint 

caitlyn Jordan bianca almada Brazilian Carnaval Chinese New Year’s “The Bear” and Alex Wilson ND Women’s Lacrosse Legends Night Club Gala “Afterplay” Invitational vs. Boston College 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Loftus Sports Center  Arlotta Stadium Samba band and 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center all day  12 p.m.-2 p.m. 
Corrections 

dance group, as well as Performaces of 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. Men’s and women’s The Irish against the 
The feb. 15 article on a saint mary’s light refreshments. Chinese songs. Two spirited comedies. indoor track competes. Eagles. student led discussion was incorrectly titled “professor examines gender.” 
Martin Ott Reading SUB Movie: Improv Show: Junior Parents Solemn Vespers 
The observer regrets this error. 

Hammes Bookstore “Brookyln” “Second City” Weekend Concert Basilica of the Sacred 
7:30p.m. -9:30 p.m. DeBartolo Hall Washington Hall Ricci Band Rehersal Heart Ott writes love poems 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 9 p.m.-11 p.m. Hall 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. that represent An Irish immigrant falls Join Second City for a 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Evening prayer in the different eras. in love. Chaos ensues. night of laughter. Jazz performances. Lady Chapel. 



Professor dispels Zika virus misconceptions 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
after the recent discovery in washington, d.c. of mos­quitoes capable of carrying and transmitting the Zika vi­rus, worry over the disease — which can lead to severe birth defects — possibly spreading across the continental united states has grown. according to david severson, a professor in the department of biological sciences, this panic over is not grounded in the reality of the situation. 
severson said his primary research areas include ento­mology, evolutionary biology, genetics and genomics and in­fectious and vector-born dis­eases. Though severson does not work directly with the Zika virus, he has studied the mosquitoes that transmit the virus. 
“people’s paranoia about Zika, in some ways is over­done. some of these other viruses are much more of a threat when you go to these places,” severson said. 
Those more threatening vi­ruses include the dengue virus and yellow fever virus, both of which are of the flaviviridae family along with the Zika virus. additionally, the chi­kungunya virus, though of a different family, is carried through the same type of mos­quito. all four related viruses are found in the “new world tropics,” severson said, though none of the viruses are endem­ic, but rather were brought over from africa and southeast asia during colonialism. 
“we’re in a global society,” severson said, “in most cases, with all four viruses, you may never realize you’re infected. so … the virus is circulating in your system, but you either hardly get sick at all, or you might feel like you have a slight cold, something like that.” 
severson also said despite the recent discovery of mos­quitoes that are capable of carrying the Zika virus in washington, d.c., “there’s little transmission in the con­tinental u.s., although there is certainly potential for transmission.” 
“as far as we know, there is no virus, there has been no active transmission in the washington, d.c. area,” severson said, “but it’s at least five years that that popula­tion has been there … so if you have active breeding dur­ing the summer, and you have someone come in from brazil that lives in that neighbor­hood, you have the potential for a short term, seasonal out­break of these viruses. 
“we have had dengue vi­rus endemic transmission in southern florida for prob­ably the last three or four years, probably a little longer,” severson said, “so we cer­tainly have the potential for this coming in to the south­ern warmer areas around the east coast, then around the gulf and then along the Texas­arizona-california-mexican border.” 

if the Zika virus were to be transmitted widely across the united states, severson said, “it probably won’t be as se­vere” as in central and south america. 
“in the u.s. we have different standards of living: we tend to like air conditioning, we like screens on our windows, so we have everything closed up,” severson said. “so we have limited contact compared to … [for instance] brazil, you might not even have screens, people like to have the breeze blow through, so there’s a lot more opportunity for exposure to being bitten by a mosquito. and there’s a lot of opportu­nity for breeding sites, these things will breed in any little container that holds water for a couple weeks … and people don’t tend to have depend­able municipal water in some places, so they’ll tend to hoard water in gallon drums or big plastic tanks … and those are the prime breeding grounds oftentimes. 
“so in the u.s., i suspect we’ll likely have some transmission. it’s the dry season in the new world tropics right now, so mosquito breeding is at the lowest point of the whole year, disease transmission is at the lowest point of the whole year. rainy season will start in early June and ramp up, and that’s when the mosquito breeding will start, and shortly after that there will be a rapid spike in disease transmission.” 
Though there is no cure or treatment for the Zika, den­gue or chikungunya viruses yet, severson said that curb­ing outbreaks would begin with combatting insecticide resistance. 
“right now with all those vi­ruses, the only one for which there is a good vaccine is yel­low fever,” severson said, “There is no good vaccine for the other three. and there are no drug treatments. if you get sick, you have to power through it and get better. so right now the only way to deal with outbreaks of this or to try to prevent outbreaks is to try to control the mosquito population. so there’s mas­sive insecticide use through­out the tropics to try to control the mosquito population, and you get pretty strong genetic resistance to those. people are looking at different ideas on how to deal with this.” 
severson said his recent research with the mosqui­toes that carry the dengue and Zika viruses has focused on “understand(ing) various pathways, what genes are up or down and regulated.” 
“we may be able to identify chemicals and drugs that you could take so if you were in­fected … you wouldn’t trans­mit it through the mosquito to another human host, so you could break the cycle that way,” he said. 
severson said he hopes that his research with mosquitoes could lead to possible vacci­nation developments in the future, as well as species-spe­cific pesticides that would cut back on the use of pesticides that “blanket kill every insect that’s out there.” 
“if we understand what makes a mosquito geneti­cally competent to transmit this pathogen, then perhaps we can engineer a genetically modified mosquito that’s no longer capable … [of trans­mitting] that virus,” severson said, “Then look into actually releasing those into the envi­ronment. so there’s a whole host of things that people have talked about, and some of those are actually in practice.” 
according to severson, the Zika virus can only be trans­mitted from person to per­son in two ways. The first is through a blood transfusion, if the blood donor happens to be viremic. severson said if a person goes to donate blood and finds that he or she is car­rying the virus, however, “they might just say come back in a couple weeks and then you can donate blood.” 
Zika virus can also be sexu­ally transmitted, severson said, although this is “com­pletely unusual,” noting there have only been two documented cases of sexual transmission. 
“The point to remember with Zika is that this virus has been around for a long, long time,” severson said. “and usually it’s been most peo­ple, probably 90-plus percent of people, either don’t know they’ve had it or they get some mild (symptom), a cold, a flu or they just don’t feel well. … microcephaly in brazil, that’s brand new, and outside of that, if you’re not a young woman in a child-bearing age where you have the potential to get preg­nant, it’s generally a benign problem.” 
as far as taking precau­tions against these viruses, severson said it is important to note the time of day in which mosquitoes transmitting Zika virus bite. 
“These mosquitoes are day biters, they bite people during the daylight hours,” severson said, “you hear about malaria and people sleeping under bed nets, but they won’t stop Zika virus. The mosquitoes that transmit malaria are night biters. so right now if you go to brazil, for example, it does absolutely zero good at preventing Zika or dengue or chikungunya to sleep un­der a bed net. The mosquitoes that transmit these viruses are most active right at dawn and right near dusk. … That coincides when people are the most active, getting up to go to school or go to work, you’re coming home … especially in the tropics.” 
severson said u.s. citizens planning on traveling to brazil and other areas in which Zika outbreaks have been preva­lent shouldn’t worry too much about the dangers of that vi­rus, but should focus on avoid­ing the dengue virus. 
“globally, there are about half a million hemorrhagic fever forms of (dengue) virus per year where you get inter­nal hemorrhaging, and if you don’t get adequate healthcare, you could actually die from it,” severson said, “so for people going to [tropical areas], den­gue is a much greater threat. and that’s another one where you get infected and in most people you get a mild illness. The same thing with chikun­gunya. it doesn’t tend to cause [fatality], but habitual neu­ropathy in some people. … so of all the other things that are out there, outside of micro­cephaly coming through preg­nant women, Zika is a pretty benign virus.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 


Debate 
conTinued from page 1 
well, not meeting standards, to fail to a certain extent.” 
Teixeira said a lack of in­centives has harmed the current public education system. 
“do i think schools right now have any incentive to create better, more educated students?” she said. “no, they do not, especially in public schools where they have no­where else to go. There are teachers who pass illiterate students every year.” 
increased privatization would also help students with disabilities, she said. 

“mentally and physically disabled kids are suspended and expelled at higher rates,” she said. “i think that part of the reason for this is that public schools do not have the resources or ability to take care of these kids.” 
sophomore geralyn smith, a member of the team in fa­vor of keeping and strength­ening universal public education, said a more edu­cated population would ben­efit the country. 
“it would be in the govern­ment’s best interests, if [it] wants to increase the capital of each individual,” she said. 
freshman Kylie ruscheinski, who also ar­gued for public education, said competition is not un­equivocally beneficial in an education system. 

“it should be a right for ev­ery child — no matter what socioeconomic class they are born into — they should have a right to an education,” she said. “competition has a benefit, but only so far. ... when schools are focused primarily on beating other schools, the students who fall through the cracks in that system are the kids with special needs and disabili­ties, those who are expelled.” 
senior dan sehlhorst said there are dangers to a privatized education system. 
“The outcome of the priva­tization scheme is that the schools that produce the best economic effect will get more students and prosper, while schools that focus less on return, on investment will not prosper — which is not what an education should be,” he said. 
“it scares me when we think of education as an­other competitive sphere in the free market — in compe­tition there are always win­ners and losers,” freshman adam wiechman said 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 

Poetry 
conTinued from page 1 
peonies inspired a poem ti­tled “seeing peonies,” writ­ten during a writing residency in peoria, where she went to learn more about tugboats, so as to better understand the environment in which her brother died. 
The book ends with a poem of praise for an estuary, she said. 
“The complexity that is in an estuary, where saltwater and freshwater braid, suggests that there are species that can only survive there,” pinard said. “because it is so easy to discount it, it is also so easy to hurt it. for me, the coming to­gether of consolation and the loss of my brother connects with my sense of consolation around trying to understand the nature of the estuary and potentially to save it.” 

in response to a student question, pinard said she de­veloped a love of the languag­es of sciences after switching her course of study from pre­med to theater and english her sophomore year at saint mary’s. 
“i do think that there is a lot of beauty in language that po­ets can have access to, if they have a better relationship with disciplines that seem differ­ent from theirs,” pinard said. “i think that’s the beauty of poetry. if you take it serious­ly, then you have to become a scholar in a lot of different areas, if you are going to make all of those language work in those poems.” 
first-year student emily harrast said she enjoyed the reading because she finds her­self similar to pinard because 
paid adverTisemenT 
she is a biology major who also likes english. 
“it was interesting how she talked about poetry in relation to other subjects,” harrast said. “i also thought it was interesting how she made the whole book about [the loss of her brother]. you could re­ally tell how she changed over time, how she started the book so upset and then grew from there, eventually viewing something completely differ­ent from the same situation.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@nd.edu 



Theologian 
conTinued from page 1 
from life at yale to address his compulsions in prayer and soli­tude,” he said. “nouwen was friends with genesee abbot, dom bamberger, and made the unusual request to become a temporary member of the monastery. … while at the ab­bey, henri discovered the utter necessity of life in community as something he had craved. he reflected that his capacity justice and peace. his longing for a community of prayer was not compatible with their life­style nor did he agree with their more militaristic strain of lib­eration theology.” 

although few people have the ability to explore vocation by living in monasteries and traveling to south america, smith shappell said, “what we can learn from henri is to con­tinually listen to god’s call to deepen our attention to prayer and contemplation and to find ways to heed the call to action in response to injustice.” 
nouwen returned to the united states, smith shappell said, when he recognized that he was not called to live in latin america, but inform oth­ers what was happening there. 
“one way he did this was to join a witness for peace del­egation, for a trip to the border of nicaragua and honduras. witness for peace was a move­ment against the u.s. involve­ment in the contra-war in nicaragua in the 1980s,” she said. “unlike the vietnam war protests that were held in the united states, people traveled to nicaragua’s war zones to see firsthand the effects of the war.” 
after meeting with women who lost their husbands and sons in the war, nouwen shared their stories in lectures across the united states. 
“he wanted to show that what the u.s. was doing was, in his words, unjust, illegal and immoral,” she said. 
nouwen also proposed the concept of communal recon­ciliation, smith shappell said. 
“henri continually asked for­giveness for the sins that the 
u.s. government and citizens committed against the women and their country. his experi­ence stretched the understand­ing of reconciliation: it wasn’t an individual sacrament, but there was need, in a way, to en­ter into communal reconcilia­tion for social sin,” she said. “he toured the nation talking about this experience and the power of forgiveness. his lens, though, was always one of spirituality 
— a pastoral response.” 
nouwen did not choose to write or lecture about recon­ciliation or social sin, but he ex­pressed his concern though his actions, smith shappell said. 
“nouwen is not known as a social justice activist, but he marched with martin luther King, Jr., in selma. he protested against nuclear submarines connecticut, and he toured the country to tell people what was really happening in nicaragua,” she said. 
in the third phase of his life, nouwen lived in a l’arche com­munity, smith shappell said. 
“l’arche is a movement start­ed by Jean vanier in france, creating communities of peo­ple who have disabilities, who live with assistants. The assis­tants help them to reach the expression of their full human­ity,” she said. 
smith shappell said nouwen’s move to the l’arche community “meant counter-culturally em­bracing ‘downward mobility,’” a concept that was grounded in his understanding of the incarnation. 
“his experience living with the l’arche community was the culmination of integrating his theology of downward mobility with his lived experience,” she said. “downward mobility led nouwen to a community where the core members did not read his books or know he wrote books. 
“The accolades henri had re­ceived as a well-known speaker and author were replaced with a community that appreci­ated him as a human being, to love and be loved. This was the home — the earthly home — that henri had been searching for.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 
for intimacy with god was his interrelated with his ability to love and live with other monks.” 
after a few months at the monastery, smith shappell said, nouwen became frustrat­ed by the isolation of the abbey. 
“henri decided he wanted to return to yale to write more and speak less, realizing that none of the problems he brought to the abbey had been resolved, nor would a longer stay help him,” he said. 
during his time at yale, nouwen developed an 
paid adverTisemenT 

interest in latin america, smith shappell said. 
“Through contacts with maryknoll missioners, henri made plans to spend six months in both bolivia and peru in 1981,” she said. ”he felt called to work in peru, but after a few months, he recognized that he did not fit in, and those that lived with him, the maryknoll missioners, recognized that as well. 
“henri felt the maryknoll missioners were intensely indi­vidualistic in their struggle for 


paid adverTisemenT 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

a simple tribute 
Erin Rice 
graphics editor 

There are many amazing people in the world. people have flown to the moon, led great warriors to victory, climbed the world’s highest mountains and discovered the cell that led scientists closer to a cancer vaccine. 
my great-uncle herb drove a bus at the university of illinois, yet he was one of the most amazing people in my life. when i was in first grade, he moved to my town to take care of my grandma after his brother, my grandpa, died. Throughout the years, his pure simplicity, extreme punctuality and in­tense love and dedication to my entire fam­ily perplexed me. i’ve spent the past 15 years discovering that the most beautiful and amazing people may also be the simplest. 
uncle herb died saturday. 

herb spent the majority of his adult life working odd jobs and watching over his brother’s family. as a teenager, he wanted nothing more than to be able to follow his brother’s footsteps and join the military, but his small stature and irregular heart pre­vented him from entering. 
This refusal wasn’t the end for him. he assumed a volunteer position by delivering military-death notifications to families door to door. for herb, this was his duty, and despite facing anger, fear and grief day after day, he put his whole heart into this task, similar to how he spent the last 15 years of his life dedicated to his brother’s family. 
while my grandpa died in 2001, herb continued to live and watch his brother’s wife grow old and his grandchildren grow up, graduate and get married, a privilege he felt he did not deserve. i hope he knew the grand impact he had on all of us. because he put his own needs and wants aside and spent a lifetime dedicating himself to the people around him. 
uncle herb once told me a story that really stuck with me. he explained the years after the great depression and how they used to have jobs for people to shovel 15 tons of coal. he explained: 
“They ain’t got jobs like that no more. you gotta work for what you know, not for what you do. you gotta learn so you know what to know. They already have people that do things. They have big companies shoveling the snow and mowing the grass. There ain’t no individuals doing that alone no more. you gotta get a job like your dad, working with computers and such. nothing comes easy in life. go watch the janitors at u of i, working 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. That ain’t no life you wanna live.” 
herb was a simple man with little wants. he loved his coffee, his one-liners, ar­riving 20 minutes early, $2 bills, his tan cadillac, my dogs and every single one of us. valentine’s day was the perfect day for herb to pass on, leaving us to remember the unending love he gave to our entire family. rest in peace, uncle herby. 
Contact Erin Rice at erice4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Neil Joseph 

moderately opinionated 
i did not agree with a lot of Justice antonin scalia’s legal decisions and opinions. as a moderate but socially liberal college student, i disagreed with many of his viewpoints on various cases. yet, with his passing this past weekend, i couldn’t help but think just how unique of a government figure he was. 
political views aside, i admire scalia because he was dif­ferent from almost every other person we see in government. a passionate man, he was never afraid to speak his mind for what he believed in. he had a set of principles he abided by and would not change his mind regardless of what he was confronted with. 
politicians today are some of the most fickle people we see. constantly, we see candidates accuse each other of chang­ing their opinions or deny the fact that they have. The reality is that all politicians change their minds. They want to get elected, to get to do the things they want to do and to be in power. citizens today are so numb to politicians changing their positions on things to what is convenient or politically expedient that it isn’t really a big deal anymore. 
scalia, on the other hand, stuck to his principles for his en­tire career. This may have been difficult when he disagreed with the decisions people wanted him to make, but he rarely, if ever, relented. granted, it was easier to stick to his convic­tions because he didn’t have to answer to voters at the end of two, four or six years. 
i admire scalia because of his willingness to adhere to a strict set of principles and values. i don’t necessarily agree with his legal views, but few, if any, judges have been able to stick to their convictions like he did. few are authentic enough to realize that sometimes a set of principles will lead you to a decision or situation you don’t necessarily agree with. That happened for scalia. he would seemingly ran­domly agree with liberal justices on certain cases when other conservative justices would not because of his interpretation of the constitution. i’m sure that wasn’t easy for him, but he did it anyway. 
furthermore, i’m consistently amused by scalia’s strong friendship with Justice ruth bader ginsberg. it baffles me. politics today are vitriolic and harsh. it’s hard to imagine president obama and paul ryan being friends or Jeb bush and donald Trump being friends. Then again, it’s difficult to imagine donald Trump being friends with anyone. yet two people who interacted and disagreed with each other vehe­mently on a daily basis managed to be best friends. 
ginsberg is one of the most progressive judges the court has ever seen, while scalia was one of the most conservative in recent history. They managed to put politics aside, real­izing that opinions were merely opinions. in doing so, they didn’t let their branch of government fall into the same con­frontational and nasty politics we see in the other two. 
at the end of the day, scalia exemplified what we should want all of our politicians to be. he had a set of principles that he believed our country should be living by. he consis­tently did what he thought was best for our country in the present and in the future, and he didn’t let politics get in the way of what was truly important to him. 
his legacy should teach all politicians that the most im­portant thing is standing up for what you believe in. whether that’s liberal, conservative or something totally different, it doesn’t matter. people are in politics because at their core, they want to make our country better. politics is only at its best, however, when it is an exchange of ideas between peo­ple who are passionate about what they believe in. 
our system only works when people can defend their posi­tions and are consistent about them when attacked by op­ponents. That’s what scalia did and he never relented. That’s the legacy he leaves behind. 
Neil Joseph is a junior living in Stanford Hall, majoring in political science and economics. He can be reached at njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR: IMMIGRATION SERIES 
#migrantlivesmatter 
The cooler opened and the pungent smell immediately hit our noses. before our eyes were dozens of dead bodies, most of them labeled John and Jane doe. migrant deaths at the u.s.-mexico border are flooding the pima county medical examiner’s office with hundreds of migrant remains each year. as a result, the office has been forced to expand its storage facilities by introducing outdoor coolers and trucks. 
u.s. border enforcement and immigration policies are a huge part of the explanation for all these deaths. 
in post-9/11 america, the conversation about strengthen­ing the border is often framed in terms of national security. however, the u.s. has been tightening its border since around a decade before those terrorist attacks. beginning in the 1990s with operation hold the line in el paso and operation gatekeeper in san diego, the u.s. government has continuously tightened and militarized its border with mexico by closing off urban ports of entry, building more walls and installing lighting systems and motion-sensor cameras. 
This border enforcement strategy, known as prevention Through deterrence, has funneled undocumented migra­tion toward remote border regions such as the sonoran desert of arizona, where border patrol has a hard time surveilling the land but crossing conditions are most treacherous. 
The prevention Through deterrence policy did not have death in mind when it was initially enacted in the early 1990s. officials banked on the idea that very few would dare to attempt crossing into the u.s. through the most remote, hot and dry regions of the borderlands. 
however, the push-and-pull factors of migration are driv­ing migrants to embark on this grave trek, where people are dying by the hundreds. The government has failed to respond adequately to these deaths, as they have continued to maintain the walls and border enforcement policies that drive migrants into these perilous regions, adding more and more people to the border’s body count. 
when we as a country know hundreds of people die at the border each year, it is unacceptable to continue to support policies that directly allow for this to happen. This is a non­negotiable problem that should unite people and parties of differing opinions, rather than being avoided and ignored as it has continued to be. unnecessary and inhumane death in the desert is a reality for which no policy, politician or person should support or condone. 
There are many strategies for border control being dis­cussed at this time in our country, especially by the candi­dates in the presidential race: issue a larger number of visas, deport those who stay longer than their visas permit, in­crease the funding and force of the u.s. border patrol, build a wall that migrants cannot get through (even though the former arizona governor and former secretary of homeland security, Janet napolitano, has said, “you show me a 50-foot wall, and i’ll show you a 51-foot ladder” in reference to the inability of a wall to keep migrants from coming into this country). 
what must come first in the minds of those reforming border security policies is the migrant and his or her risk of death in the desert. we need to get rid of policies that direct­ly lead to migrant deaths and replace them with action and law that treat migrants as human beings. no man, woman or child should die at the border. 
Victor Benavides 
senior 
Katrina Linden 
senior 
Tyler McGehee 
senior feb. 14 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
In our mothers’ hearts and minds 
were not only found circulating in the blood, they This may possibly be true of such cells in the brains 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

for the most part, we love our mothers and miss them when we are away. in turn, most mothers love and care for their children and feel a strong con­nection with each child. 
This bond is based in the intimate familiarity of pregnancy, the trauma and wonder of birth and the years of nurturing. our mothers may even remind us that we are always in their hearts and minds. ongoing research suggests the physical connection with our mothers is more tangible and deeper than previously envisioned. 
The placenta provides the first and most obvi­ous connection between mother and child. This complex organ, purpose-built of cells from the fe­tus and the mother, serves as a channel for the ex­change of nutrients, gasses and wastes. in addition to the blood and other fluids, body cells migrate through the placenta between the mother and child, taking up residence in many of each other’s organs. 
The presence of these ‘foreign’ cells in our bodies challenges the concept that we are wholly autono­mous individuals made up of our own unique cells. we each carry parts of our parents, not just in the genetic sense, but as part of the cells incorporated into ourselves. 
mixing of cells from genetically distinct indi­viduals is called chimerism (after the mythological fire-breathing chimera that was part serpent, lion and goat). naturally occurring chimeras include slime molds, corals and lichens, each of which thrives as a melding of genetically distinct species. mythical chimeras include mermaids, centaurs and the disturbing puppy-monkey-baby. 
The presence of groups of genetically distinct cells in an individual, or microchimerism, has been known for a while. recently, microchimeric cells were also found taking up residence in the brain. researchers examined the brains of deceased women and found cells containing male “y” chro­mosomes in various regions of more than 60 per­cent of the brains studied. The cells are genetically male and likely originated from their babies during gestation. 
because alzheimer’s disease is more common in women who have multiple children, the hypothesis was that the number of chimeric brain cells would be greater in women with alzheimer’s than those who had no such neurological disease. The result was the opposite: women with alzheimer’s had fewer fetal-derived cells. 
while this correlation is intriguing, it does not quite mean that more fetal cells in a woman’s brain can reduce alzheimer’s. however, it is some com­fort to think that each of us may contribute in this small way to our mother’s elderly wellbeing. 
There are many ways to share or acquire micro-chimeric cells. in addition to the placental route, a mother may transfer cells to her child through nursing and twins in utero may exchange cells. cells residing in the mother from an older sibling may travel across the placenta to a younger sibling during the latter’s development in the womb. 
accordingly, a woman may carry microchimeric cells from her mother as well as from her own chil­dren, and each of us likely carries such cells from our own mothers. 
fetal microchimeric cells are analogous to stem cells in their ability to develop into a variety of tissues. one group of researchers studied fetal mi­crochimeric cells placed into a mother rat after her heart was damaged. The fetal cells traveled to the mother rat’s heart and developed into cells that repaired the injury. 
microchimeric cells identified in the brains of some animals had become nerve cells which ap­peared to be functionally integrated into the brain. 
of human mothers. 

microchimeric cells may also impact the immune system. fetal microchimeric cells are recognized by the mother’s immune system partly as hers, since genetically the child is half-identical to the mother, but also viewed as half-foreign, based on the father’s genes. This may sensitize the mother’s immune system to handle cells not quite identical to the self. cancer cells caused by genetic muta­tions are such “not-quite-self” cells and studies suggest that microchimeric cells pre-adapt the immune system to curtail the growth of tumors. interestingly, more microchimeric cells are found in the blood of healthy women as compared to the blood of those with breast cancer. 
but in other circumstances, the “not-quite-self” aspect of chimerical cells may turn the immune system against the self. people with multiple scle­rosis have been found to have more microchimeric cells than their siblings without the disease. again, the correlation is interesting and may suggest chi­meric cells play a role in ms, perhaps by setting off an autoimmune attack of the self against the “not-quite-self.” 
more research and discoveries are coming, but what we have already learned validates the truth that we are more closely connected, each to the other, as child to mother, than we have ever imagined. we, or at least some part of our cellular beings, truly may be in our mothers’ hearts and minds. our mothers may always be with us, not just as that little voice in our heads, but as the very neurons that carry thoughts of each other. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Sustainable development is the cure 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

not long after the disastrous outbreak of ebola in western africa, the Zika virus has begun to spread quickly across latin america. a flu-like illness that normally only causes mild symptoms, it has be­come a cause of increasing concern as more severe symptoms and birth defects such as microcephaly have emerged. 
margaret chan, director-general of the world health organization (who), recently declared Zika a public health emergency of international concern. 
although ebola and Zika are different pathogens, both highlight a global inability to effectively deal with public health crises in a timely manner. a recent un panel on health crisis response stated, “The high risk of major health crises is widely un­derestimated, and the world’s preparedness and capacity to respond is woefully insufficient.” 
The Zika virus may have even more potential than ebola to wreak havoc on large populations, as scientists are unsure of exactly how it can be spread and there are no existing vaccines or cures. certainly a lot of scientific work needs to be done in investigating Zika, but we must also consider underlying factors that enable the spread of such diseases and prevent action from being taken immediately. 
ebola may be mostly contained at this point, but there are important lessons to learn from how com­munities and governments dealt with the crisis. These lessons should inform how we look at Zika and other future public health issues. 
in order to most effectively address the spread of Zika, one of the first priorities must be to frame it as an issue of development, not simply one of public health. it is important to recognize that the communities most vulnerable to such a crisis are those with many residents living in conditions of poverty. The spread of infectious disease is often enabled by political and economic factors such as state incapacity and uneven development. 
in the case of ebola, the communities most af­fected were poor as well as lacking the resources to cure those infected and slow the spread of the disease to healthy members of the population. This is the case with many public health crises — those who do not have the resources or systems in place to deal with such issues are faced with the greatest burden. 
This trend continues with Zika, as mosquitoes that carry the virus cluster around standing water. poor, rural communities frequently lack sanitation or a clean water source, thus making them particu­larly vulnerable to the virus. 
proper solutions should not only provide resourc­es to the most susceptible populations first, but also seek to resolve factors that contribute to a lack of development and state inaction. further, devel­opment solutions that address contributors to an inefficient public health system, such as endemic poverty and state incapacity, must be sustainable. 
it is not enough simply to rush more resources to those in dire need. This may help in the short term, but what will happen when the Zika virus is no lon­ger considered a crisis? will the resources provided dry up, leaving the people still in poverty? will there be systems established to ensure that those born with developmental disabilities and their families are able to lead happy, productive lives? 
mechanisms must be put in place to ensure that communities that receive assistance are able to sustain the quality of living that aid affords them. 
ultimately, health crises such as ebola and Zika, which adversely affect the poor, must be consid­ered first and foremost issues of development. while the spread of ebola has slowed dramatically, the solutions that led to its containment did not address the factors that allowed ebola to be so dev­astating in the first place. 
it may not be possible to eliminate poverty over­night, but the best solutions to public health crises will acknowledge that the level of development in a community or country is often a key part of the problem. 
if we continue to tackle health crises like ebola and Zika on a case by case basis and do not ac­knowledge the factors that make poor populations much more vulnerable to such threats, the world will continue to see epidemics that impact human security on a vast scale. scientific progress is im­portant, but the role of sustainable development in preventing massive disease outbreaks cannot be ignored anymore. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. She lives in Lewis Hall and studies political science with a minor in international  development studies. She can be reached at  ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

on his third major stand-up special “comedy camisado” hannibal buress enters the stage quietly, letting out one thank you and a clap before get­ting into his first bit. dressed in mod­est, dark clothing, buress makes it clear from the get-go that his act lacks piz­zazz. fortunately it is in this simplic­ity that the chicago native shines as a stand-up comic. 
hannibal buress has made a career of exposing the humor behind life’s in­nocent mundanities. beginning with everyday observations, buress’ gift of storytelling and frank delivery allows him to navigate the audience through hilarious and often provocative digres­sions. whether buress is musing about 
By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene writer 

There were a lot of places “deadpool” could have gone wrong. a movie as self-aware as this one, whose titular character knows he’s a work of fiction, requires a delicate balancing act. lean too far to one side and the movie lacks substance, lean too far to the other and it’s uncomfortably ignorant. 
“deadpool” could have surren­dered to the phenomenon known as “we showed all the funniest parts in the trailer.” see enough comedies and you’ll undoubtedly encounter this ef­fect, leaving you feeling cheated when you exit the theater. with trailers as hilarious as those for “deadpool” this was a definite possibility. 
There was also a chance that “deadpool” would collapse under the weight of its own nerd-fueled popular­ity and succumb to excessive fan ser­vice. given the character’s uniquely small but fervent fan-base, this was my biggest concern. 
i am incredibly happy to say acting alongside a baby or explaining his gripe with intentional walks in base­ball, “comedy camisado” succeeds in its unsophistication. 
after impressing audiences with his oddball sensibility through a series of minor roles and writing credits on shows like “30 rock,” “louie” and “snl,” buress landed a co-hosting role on adult swim’s “The eric andre show.” a lethar­gic foil to andré’s off-the-wall insanity, buress established a brilliantly surreal dynamic on the late-night show parody and gained the attention of more main­stream outlets in the process. 
This past year buress shined as the curiously lovable lincoln rice on comedy central’s hilarious “broad city.” buress continued his success through voice roles on animated pro­grams “chozen,” “china, il” and “lucas 
“deadpool” easily cleared all of these hurdles. on the surface, it’s a pretty typical love story. wade wilson is your run-of-the-mill ex-special-ops-soldier turned town mercenary. he meets the stripper of his dreams, gets terminal cancer and is forced to go to extremes to be cured. basically the plot of a nicholas sparks novel. 
“deadpool” delivers everything fans were expecting and then some. intense violence? check. vulgar humor? check. holiday-themed sex montage? check. gratuitous ikea references? check. 
in all seriousness, there hasn’t been a superhero movie this emotionally mature since the dark Knight trilogy. most comic book heroes are represent­ed as having relatively unmoving per­sonalities. it doesn’t matter what sorts of atrocities they see or violence they dish out, they will still be the heroes we know and love. captain america will still have his indomitable morals, Tony stark will still have a snappy comeback and hawkeye will still do whatever the director needs him to do to advance the plot. 
bros. moving co.” before earning his own comedy central late night show “why? with hannibal buress” in 2015 (since canceled). 
some may recognize him as the co­median who in 2014 “made an offhand joke about cosby raping” buress ex­plains in camisado, maintaining his signature nonchalance. buress is cer­tainly more than “that comic,” the up­roar was in part testament to just how funny that bit was. such unabashed bluntness is a hallmark of the buress’ brand, and is very present throughout much of “comedy camisado.” 
“pitchers, that’s one of the few jobs where if you do your job poorly, there are explosions in the sky. one of the others is Tsa agent,” buress observes, as if just coming up with it on the spot before let­ting out a chuckle. The mix of honesty, 
no other hero has displayed as much depth as deadpool. it’s refreshing to have a movie emphasize the human part of superhuman. wade keeps his sense of humor (though it swings closer to insanity post-transformation), but appears genuinely terrified when un­dergoing the torture needed to activate his latent mutant powers. despite his apparent self-assuredness, he wrestles with whether or not to reveal his newly disfigured self to his fiancée. for all the praise heaped on “guardians of the galaxy” and “The avengers,” the character development of each of those films feels decidedly unnatural com­pared to the evolution in “deadpool.” 
i’m guessing that most people aren’t going to see “deadpool” for the un­expectedly substantial characters. They’re going to laugh. in that re­gard, “deadpool” is exceptional. ryan reynolds plays the role he was born to play as “the merc with the mouth.” his r-rated immaturity will keep you laughing throughout the entire film. morena baccarin and (espe­cially) T.J. miller do a great job as his creativity and dark humor serve buress well. his cool delivery ensures play­ful genuineness. colorful expressions, relatable references and passionate impersonations all add compelling components to buress’ act, and though it may not be the most gripping comedy, the short hour certainly flies by. 
Throughout most of the act, hannibal toes a fine line between corniness and authenticity, yet his experience and goofy stage presence is enough to ground at least most of his bits. That be­ing said, there are some jokes, such as one bit on stevie wonder, which come off a bit undeveloped; but those mo­ments are fleeting, quickly transition­ing to more fruitful pursuits. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                            aramos6@nd.edu 
deadpan comedic foils. relative un­knowns andre Tricoteux and brianna hildebrand are amusing, if underused, sidekicks. 
perhaps the one legitimate short­coming in this film is the villains. ed skrein plays a generic scientist with super-strength named ajax, and for­mer-mma fighter gina carano plays his similarly strong henchwoman angel dust. skrein’s performance isn’t bad, but a villain who “can’t feel any­thing” isn’t the most satisfying target of deadpool’s insults. at least he was al­lowed to talk — it seemed like the script actively avoided carano. 
but ultimately, this movie is the deadpool show — a monument built to showcase all that this character has to offer. The story is engaging, the ac­tion sequences beautiful and the hu­mor sidesplitting. i can sleep soundly knowing “deadpool” is here to save us from getting our heads stuck too far up our cinematic universes. 
Contact Matthew Macke at      mmacke@nd.eduw 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 

paid adverTisemenT 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: make home and family a priority, and you will excel outside your domestic environment. finding a healthy balance between work and play will help you accomplish as much as possible. personal improvements plus a generous attitude will help you attract special people into your life. love can make the world go round. be a giving participant. your numbers are 2, 9, 15, 22, 29, 34, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): get involved in something that matters. surprise someone with an unexpected gesture. a chance to change your vocational path to a more academic position will lead to a higher income and greater satisfaction. don’t let anyone bully you. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t hold a grudge or argue about the way things get done. do your part and you will have no regrets. a partnership will go through changes, but in the end, it will bring you closer together and help you make personal gains. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t sit back. speak up and share your ideas. if someone tries to intervene or suggests unrealistic plans, take action that will allow you to stick to your plan without complications or taking on more than you can handle. emotional manipulation is apparent. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep an open mind when dealing with authority figures or institutions. reserve judgment and get all the facts without sharing too much about your personal life. look for alternatives and don’t be afraid to do things differently. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): refuse to argue. remain calm and reticent about how you want to go about your business. Try to get everything in place before you make your next move. an interesting turn of events will develop while networking. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your feelings to yourself. don’t let anyone put demands on you. Take care of your responsibilities and move on to more enjoyable pastimes. love and romance will help you resolve a misunderstanding or concern. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take the plunge and sign up for something you want to do. whether it’s a course, trip or an event that gives you incentive to move forward, now is the time to put things in place. walk away from situations that cannot be resolved. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep moving. idle time will lead to anxiety and run-ins with people who don’t see things the same way you do. focus on something that takes you away from your ordinary routine and allows you to develop a unique plan. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): emotional tension will mount if you haven’t been honest. make changes at home that will help you gain confidence and allow you the freedom you need to excel. Think matters through and do what’s best for you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t worry about what others do. focus on your goals and follow through with your plans. it’s up to you to protect your position, assets and possessions from anyone who is manipulative or has ulterior motives. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The changes you make at home will be beneficial but challenging. The chance to begin a new routine is within your reach. don’t get upset when you should take charge and set the stage for the way you want things to be. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your unpredictable nature will wreak havoc when dealing with colleagues, friends and family. don’t let your emotions take over, causing you to overreact or make assumptions that will put you in a vulnerable or awkward position. 


Birthday Baby: you are free-spirited, resourceful and easygoing. you are brave and benevolent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Make halftime shows the norm 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
The nba all-star game took place in Toronto this past weekend. i personally went into the nba’s annual, frenzied regalia thinking that sting’s performance at halftime would be the best part of the weekend. 
i was correct to believe that sting would deliver. 
however, sting’s solid performance aside, two fel­lows named Zach lavine and aaron gordon proved me wrong by putting on an amazing slam dunk contest. 
and two weeks ago, beyoncé, bruno mars and coldplay — yes, i know coldplay was the headlining act, and yes, i’m still men­tioning them third — put on a great super bowl half­time show. i’m a sucker for “uptown funk” and beyoncé is, well, beyonce. 
at this point, you may be sitting there and thinking, “marek, this is a sports au­thority, not a music rant.” you would be correct in that regard, but the point i’m try­ing to make is that sporting events need more musical performances. 
why should the super bowl and all-star games get all the musical acts and drama? To channel my inner bernie sanders, the system we have gives roughly 1 percent of the sporting events that take place every year about 99 percent of the musical acts. That’s just not right, and expanding musical per­formances to even regular season games would let ev­eryone win. 
Think about it: more half­time shows are good for both sports and music. would you watch an nhl regular-season game between the columbus blue Jackets and the florida panthers? probably not, right? what if it had a halftime show fea­turing bruce springsteen and drake? by adding bigger and better halftime shows, viewership of sporting events will only increase. 
The same goes for the art­ists, too. beyoncé may not need the increased draw sporting events provide, but it certainly isn’t going to hurt her record sales, either. and for artists who are less famous than beyoncé, sport­ing events represent a gold mine of potential listeners. 

having more games in­clude a musical halftime show would also give teams a chance to create a unique identity. for example, the memphis grizzlies could choose to feature country music artists during their halftime shows, and the boston area could showcase local bands like aerosmith or boston. The dallas cowboys would just listen to “The fool on the hill” on repeat, and i think the los angeles rams would be happy to have nickelback to distract fans from the fact that case Keenum is their quarterback. 
besides, it’s not like we have a shortage of aging rock bands looking for work. playing at a mls game must be better than playing a kid’s birthday party for up­and-coming indie artists or washed-up metal groups. 
and just think of the awe­some marketing potential: imagine the royals with halftime act Kansas, the bears with chicago, the giants with They might be giants or the eagles with ... wait for it ... the eagles. 
and, if we’re really lucky, we can look forward to player-singer duets. imagine boogie the rapper perform­ing with demarcus “boogie” cousins. plus, i think fans would enjoy nick saban jam­ming with lynyrd skynyrd to “sweet home alabama.” 
plus, now that one dumb commentator on every show will have something to do. shaq can finally come into his own as TnT’s halftime act analyst, and, let’s be honest, i want to hear dick vitale call Justin bieber a “diaper dandy.” 
look, i just enjoy the en­tertainment of halftime shows and want more of it. if it means i have to dvr the super bowl and fast forward through two hours of tape to watch beyoncé, i’ll do that. if it means i have to buy tick­ets to Jacksonville Jaguars games to see her, i’ll do that too. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessar­ily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | TeXas 85, wesT virginia 78 
longhorns hold off mountaineers at home 
Associated Press 
ausTin, Texas — eric davis Jr. scored 15 points and sparked a flurry of first-half 3-pointers for no. 24 Texas as the longhorns held off a late rally to beat no. 10 west virginia 85-78 on Tuesday night. 
davis made four 3-point­ers in the first half and Texas (17-9, 8-5 big 12) had 10 in the game in capping a regular-season sweep of the mountaineers. Texas broke a two-game losing streak. 
Texas coach shaka smart had implored his team to show more emotion head­ing in a tough, late-season gauntlet against four ranked opponents in six games. davis responded with argu­ably his best half of the sea­son after scoring seven total points in the previous four games. 
isaiah Taylor led Texas with 23 points and seven assists. 
Tarik phillip scored 19 points for west virginia (20­6, 9-4), which dropped one game behind no. 2 Kansas in the big 12. 
Jaysean paige, the mountaineers’ leading scor­er at 14.0 points per game, injured an ankle in the first half and never returned. 
west virginia, which trailed by as many as 16 points in the second half, pulled within 77-71 on a three-point play by Jonathan holton with 38 seconds left. Texas put the game away with eight consecutive free throws. 
The win is another big result on the ncaa Tournament resume of first-year coach smart, who still hasn’t lost three straight with the longhorns. Texas is 5-3 against ranked oppo­nents this season and three of its last five games will come against no. 25 baylor, Kansas and no. 3 oklahoma. 
Just like its first win over the mountaineers in January, Texas expertly han­dled west virginia’s press­ing defense, turning the ball over just seven times. west virginia attacked Texas ballhandlers early and pro­duced three quick turnovers in the opening minutes that fueled a 12-4 mountaineers lead. 
but Texas cleaned up the sloppy play and quickly fought back before davis took over the last 6 minutes of the first half with a slew of 3-pointers. davis made three as the teams traded seven straight 3-pointers and his fourth pushed the longhorns to a 45-36 half­time lead. 
The longhorns kept up the barrage in the second half. connor lammert’s 3-pointer followed by a three-point play by Taylor quickly pushed Texas to a 12-point lead in the opening minutes. 

even when Texas’ scor­ing slowed down, the mountaineers couldn’t make the run they needed to rally. after shooting 63 per­cent in the first half, west virginia tapered off badly in the second and struggled from the free throw line. 
and Texas kept handling the west virginia press to perfection. Taylor’s off-balance alley-oop pass to prince ibeh for a dunk fin­ished off a three-pass se­quence that sliced through the mountaineers and put the longhorns up 65-52. 
Tip-ins 
west virginia: The mountaineers played with­out starting guard daxter miles because of a strained right hamstring. starting in his place was Teyvon myers, who came in averaging just 
2.2 points and finished with six points, one assist and no steals. 
Texas: The longhorns are keeping watch on their own injured lineup. smart said this week that center cam ridley still hasn’t been cleared to put his full weight on a surgically repaired bone in his right foot, put­ting his return before the postseason in doubt. 
NHL | capiTals 3, Kings 1 
Capitals come from behind to beat Kings 
Associated Press 
washingTon — evgeny Kuznetsov’s tiebreaking goal with 122 seconds remain­ing off an assist from ex-Kings player Justin williams, a score that withstood a coach’s challenge for goalie interference, lifted the nhl­leading washington capitals to a 3-1 comeback victory over los angeles on Tuesday night. 
Kuznetsov’s 16th goal, but first in a month, gave him 20 points in his past 14 games. andre burakovsky got a sec­ondary assist on that score, after tying the game with 
48.1 seconds left in the sec­ond period. Jason chimera added an empty-netter with 
8.6 seconds left. 
anze Kopitar put los angeles ahead in the first pe­riod on a short-handed goal. 
washington goalie philipp grubauer, getting a rare start in place of braden holtby, made 39 saves. 
Kings goalie Jonathan Quick, back after missing three games with a lower-body injury, finished with 29 stops. 
washington won de­spite a quiet night for alex ovechkin, whose four-game goal streak ended, and the team’s league-best power play, which went 0 for 5, man­aged a total of only five shots in those 10 minutes with the man-advantage and was the unit responsible for allowing the Kings’ goal. 
That’s because Kopitar scored his 17th goal while los angeles was killing a penalty with a little under 3 1/2 min­utes left in the first period. 
defenseman drew doughty set it up by diving headfirst in front of the crease and reaching out with his stick to poke away a pass intended for ovechkin, camped out in his usual power-play spot near the left circle. dustin brown corralled the puck and brought it up the right wing before sending it cross-ice. 

Kopitar’s initial shot was blocked, but he lifted the re­bound over grubauer from a tough angle on the left side of the net. 
washington made it 1-all when burakovsky redirect­ed a puck that dmitry orlov put in front of the net. it was burakovsky’s 12th goal. 
capitals defenseman brooks orpik earned the sec­ondary assist in his return to action after missing the pre­vious 40 games with a lower-body injury. orpik’s presence was acknowledged in the first period by a roar from the crowd when his no. 44 was shown on the overhead scoreboard. 


TRACK & FIELD 

irish excel in two weekend meets 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
notre dame sent competi­tors to both the iowa state invitational and the spire division i meet last weekend and came away with strong performances on both the men’s and women’s sides as it heads into the final stretch before the acc indoor championships. 
on friday, the dynamic duo of senior molly seidel and freshman anna rohrer placed first and second, re­spectively, in the 5,000-me­ter run at the iowa state invitational, notching personal bests in the pro­cess. seidel broke her own school record with a time of 15:47.07, and rohrer was right behind her with a time of 15:47.78. 
“They weren’t running all out, which is pretty scary, especially considering how good molly is getting right now,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “i’ve said it be­fore, but she is just taking everything to another level. anna is following right be­hind her. she’s also a super talented individual as well. … Those two have just been lights out for us this entire season, and what they did at iowa state was actually expected.” 
another top performer for the women was gradu­ate student carly loeffel, who took home the top spot in the pentathlon at the spire meet with a score of 4,019 points. additionally, the women’s 1600-meter relay of sophomores Jordan shead and payton miller, senior margaret bamgbose and graduate student Kaila barber came in second on saturday in the spire meet with a time of 3:37.87, their best time up to this point in the season and second best in the conference. 
Turner said he was very pleased with the progress loeffel has made this sea­son as she looks to get back to the ncaa championships. 
“she’s where she needs to be right now, and she’s going to have to duplicate those ef­forts in couple weeks at the accs,” Turner said. “she’s been to the ncaas in her sophomore year, so she has tasted being on the big stage, and she just wants to get back there. … hopefully [in the coming weeks] we can maximize all of our points in the women’s team and bring home an acc title.” 
on the men’s side, the irish performed admirably, as a number of team members set personal bests. in the high jump, sophomore hunter holton placed fifth with a jump of 2.06 meters, and freshman matthew birzer finished 10th with a person­al best of 1.96 meters. in the 3,000-meter run, sophomore Kevin pulliam finished 11th with a personal-best time of 8:17.84, and senior Timothy ball came in 13th with his own personal record of 8:18.28. 

additionally, juniors chris marco and Jacob dumford finished 14th and 15th in the mile, respectively. both edged closer to the 4-minute mark with nearly-identical times of 4:03.81 and 4:03.85, which Turner said is great so long as they continue to im­prove their placement in the conference. 
“if they can put them­selves in good positions for the acc they are going to place very high for us,” Turner said about marco and dumford. “but right now, it’s [less about hitting 4 minutes and] more about placing as high as they can in the acc, whether that’s 3:59 or 4:05 that gets us the victory.” 
with the acc champion­ships only two weeks away, the irish are in the midst of preparation for the fi­nal stretch run, and that preparation continues this coming weekend when the team hosts the alex wilson invitational at loftus sports center on saturday. The meet is set to start at 10 a.m. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 







Baseball 
conTinued from page 16 



paid adverTisemenT 
college baseball with 75 double plays in just 60 games last season, as well as Johnny bench award-candidate lidge behind the plate. 
“i continue to marvel at the guys in our infield the way they just continue to work, continue to de­velop and continue to get better,” aoki said. “ … Zach, cavan, lane and Kyle, i think all four of them are better players. and i think that that’s pretty remarkable consider­ing the fact that they played at an extremely high level last year.” 
one area notre dame will see some turnover in, however, is the back-end of the starting rotation. 
“when you look at certain guys, some of these guys are going to be in a little bigger role,” aoki said. “if you look at [sophomores right-hander] peter solomon and [left­hander] sean guenther, those are kids who were in the back end of our bullpen last year and are go­ing to be at the front end to start the year this year. i don’t know that they’ve necessarily improved by leaps and bounds, but i think they’ve been able to adjust, make the adjustments to the starter’s role versus the closer’s role.” 
guenther led the irish last sea­son with five saves while compiling a 1-3 record, 2.72 era and 37 strike­outs in 46 1/3 innings of work over 27 appearances. solomon notched four saves of his own, throwing 19 1/3 innings on the way to a 2-0 re­cord, 1.40 era and 19 strikeouts in nine appearances. both will see their time in the starting rotation, aoki said. 
because the team believes it can compete with anyone in the coun­try, aoki said the improvement he sees is more on the mental side of the game. 
“i think our whole team has just done a really good job of embracing the whole idea of just trying to get a little bit better every day,” aoki said. “This competition isn’t necessar­ily against our opponents so much as it is ourselves, just pushing our­
selves every day to try to maximize our potential. it’s really gratifying to watch these guys just go about the work of doing that.” 
This weekend’s three-game set against the broncos (26-28, 12-15 west coast in 2015) is set to begin at 9 p.m. friday at stephen schott stadium. going into the series, aoki said he wants his team to start playing with a present-focused mindset. 
“i think it’s very much the same as it was last year, which is to take the game one pitch at a time,” aoki said. “don’t worry about the past, don’t worry about the future, just be completely obsessed with the present, and just try to play as well as we are capable of playing. 
“ … we’re not playing the game against the opponent. The oppo­nent really is irrelevant. it’s us try­ing to maximize our individual and collective ability, and i think that’s going to be the message from the first day of the season to the very last day of the season, which hopefully is in late June.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


Football 
conTinued from page 16 
rigors with my football com­mitments has given me a great foundation for my next endeavor.” 
The midland, michigan, native said while he “poured everything into representing notre dame” as a member of the team, he’s ready to move on from football after three seasons. 
“The excitement i feel about the professional opportunity in front of me has helped me to realize that i’m just ready to be done with football,” elmer said. “i’ve been play­ing this game for many years, and quite honestly my heart is no longer in it.” 
irish head coach brian Kelly referenced his staff’s recruiting pitch that notre dame is more about the four years in college when prais­ing elmer’s character. 
“notre dame is a special place that develops unique and talented people,” Kelly said in a press release. “steve elmer is such a person. he chose notre dame to earn a degree from the top univer­sity in the world and play football at the highest level. he’s accomplished both and so much more. 
“This is an incredible pro­fessional opportunity for steve. we, as a coaching staff, talk about how attending notre dame isn’t a four-year decision; rather it’s a 40-year investment into your life. This university provides so many different avenues to­ward success, whether that’s on the football field or in the boardroom, and steve’s an­other outstanding example.” 
elmer’s departure means the irish will have to replace three starters on the offen­sive line, with graduate stu­dent nick martin exhausting his eligibility and senior ronnie stanley forgoing his final season to enter april’s nfl draft. sophomore Quenton nelson and ju­nior mike mcglinchey are set to be the only returning starters. 
elmer said although mak­ing the call to leave notre dame wasn’t easy, it was the correct decision for him. 
“if this sounds like it was a difficult decision for me, you would be right,” elmer said. “my time at notre dame is something i will always cherish, leaving me with the best of friends and countless memories that i will carry with me for the rest of my life. i owe so much to this university, not only for giv­ing me the chance to play on college football’s biggest stage and preparing me for life beyond the game but for helping to make me the man i am today. all i ask from you is that you trust me when i say i know that i have made the right decision.” 


paid adverTisemenT 


W Tennis 
conTinued from page 16 
and Quinn gleason (6-1, 7-6(3)) all fell in their singles matches. 
despite the loss that ended notre dame’s three-match winning streak, louderback said he was very pleased with the way his team performed sunday and feels the loss will motivate his team to do better. 
“i felt like we played a very good match against michigan and were in position to have a chance to win the match,” louderback said. “losing a close match like that makes us ready to get back on the court as soon as possible.” 
and the irish are ready to do just that, starting with their doubles play. even though he believes the dou­bles teams are gradually im­proving, louderback said that his team is working on getting more overall pro­duction during the doubles matches. 

“we are going to contin­ue to work on our doubles,” louderback said. “our dou­bles teams are playing better but we need to start getting some doubles points.” 
Thirsty for more points, the irish head to west lafayette, indiana, for an non-con­ference contest against purdue on wednesday. The match will take place at the schwartz Tennis center and is scheduled for 3 p.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





M Lax 
conTinued from page 16 
championship a number of dif­ferent years, but that’s not really relevant. what is is how hard do you work every day. how hard do you prepare yourself. how good of a chance do you give yourself to be that best team at the end.” 
on paper, notre dame’s chances look good. The irish return three of their top four goal scorers: senior attack matt Kavanagh, junior midfielder sergio perkovic and sopho­more attack mikey wynne. They return all three starters on defense, including senior and reigning acc defensive player of the year matt landis. landis and Kavanagh were both picked in the top five of the major league lacrosse draft in January. 
while notre dame having a handful of the country’s top players will certainly help its quest for a first national title, corrigan said he is more fo­cused on the team aspect and less on individual expectations. 
“Quite honestly i think [ex­pectations are] a muse for fans or people who are interested in the team,” corrigan said. “i think within the team what we need to be concerned about are our standards of performance every day — not getting guys caught up in expectations, be­cause the only expectation that i want them to have is that we’re going to be as well prepared as we can possibly by every time we strap it up on saturdays.” 
for corrigan’s part, he has instilled in his every one of players a sense of taking the season day-by-day and not looking ahead to the ncaa Tournament. 
“i think we don’t want to have that attitude [of forward think­ing] because if all we focus on is the end product, we’ll forget about all the steps it takes to get there,” landis said. “i think we’re trying to … leave the field better than we stepped on [ev­ery day]. if we look at it that way, and we’re not getting better ev­ery day, i don’t think we’ll get to the national championship.” 
“we really try to stay focused every single day on the day in front of us,” corrigan said. “it’s not about anything that’s going to happen in may, even any­thing that’s going to happen in march — it’s about today.” 

even with sky-high expecta­tions this season, corrigan said the irish will not necessarily be picking up right where they left off. former attack conor doyle and midfielders nick ossello, Jim marlatt, Jack near and will corrigan were all important pieces last season that have since been lost to graduation. 
“There’s no question, every team has to develop its lead­ers as you lose those guys from the year before,” corrigan said. “but there’s also some little things that they did — the insti­tutional knowledge, if you will, of how we do things. 
“ … it’s a process to grow into that leadership for the next year. i think we’ve got guys who are doing that on an everyday basis. i think our seniors have been good during the pre­season in trying to develop that, but you don’t pick up where you left off.” 
whether or not the seniors step up and lead the irish to a national championship, corrigan said he is confident notre dame will be in the thick of things for the long haul. 
“i think all of the pieces are in place,” corrigan said. “i think it took awhile for us to get all those pieces. The first time we went to the final four [in 2001], we didn’t have scholarships. we didn’t have a budget for as­sistant coaches, and we didn’t have a stadium to play in. we’ve got all those things now. 
“ … all of the pieces have been put into place here for us to compete at a high level.” 
landis, who has suffered his fair share of heartbreaking loss­es in his three years at notre dame, was more matter of fact about getting over the hump. 
“in every single one of those games … it’s been a game that goes right down to the wire. … it’s just putting in a little more effort. we’re right there, we just need one percent more to go all the way.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Lineman Elmer to forgo  final year of eligibility 
Observer Staff Report  
Junior offensive lineman  
steve elmer will graduate  
early in may and forgo his fi­ 
nal year of eligibility, notre  
dame announced Tuesday.  
elmer, who closed his irish  
career with 27 consecutive  
starts as one of six players to  
start every game in the 2014  
and 2015 seasons, will earn  
his degree in economics at  
the end of this semester and  
begin his professional life in  
washington, d.c.  
“while playing football  
for notre dame has been  
nothing short of an honor,  
i have been presented with  
an incredible opportunity to  
pursue a career doing some­ 
thing in which i have great  
interest, and at a great com­ 
pany to boot,” elmer said in  
a letter written to irish fans.  
“The experience of balancing  
notre dame’s academic  WEI LIN | The Observer  
Irish junior offensive lineman Steve Elmer, left, looks to make a  
see elmer PAGE 14  block during Notre Dame’s 44-28 loss to Ohio State on Jan. 1.  

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
notre dame readies for purdue 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame takes on non-conference opponent purdue on wednesday. 
The irish (4-3, 1-0) visit purdue at the schwartz Tennis center in west lafayette, indiana. 
irish head coach Jay louderback said he believes the boilermakers’ experience will play an important factor for the irish during the match. 
“purdue is a very veteran team and one that is tough at home, so we know we will have to play well and be very patient,” louderback said. 
The boilermakers (7-5, 0-0) face the irish after a busy doubleheader-weekend. They defeated depaul, 5-2, before falling to Tulsa, 4-0, on sunday. before sunday’s win, the boilermakers suf­fered three straight losses on-the-road against. They fell to Kansas and arkansas in a doubleheader Jan. 30-31 and no. 25 ole miss, before beat­ing memphis, 6-1, on feb. 7. overall, purdue has faced five ranked opponents so far this season, recording a 1-4 record in those contests. 
leading up to purdue, the irish lost, 5-2, on-the-road to no. 8 michigan on sunday. Juniors Jane fennelly and monica robinson notched the only singles wins for the irish. fennelly battled against michigan sophomore alex najarian in a 10-point set tiebreaker, ultimately handing notre dame its first point with a 6-3, 5-7, 10-3 vic­tory. robinson also played to three sets. she beat freshman brienne minor 7-5, 1-6, 6-4 to secure the irish their second and final point of the day. 
fellow junior mary closs (6­2, 7-6(3)), sophomore allison miller (6-2, 6-1) and seniors Julie vrabel (6-2, 6-3) 
see w Tennis PAGE 14 
BASEBALL 

nd returns solid pitching, defense 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
despite reaching the ncaa tournament for the first time since 2006, the feeling around the clubhouse in the final hours before notre dame’s 2016 season gets underway is anything but satisfied. 
“[it] wasn’t like we won the college world series,” irish head coach mik aoki said Tuesday af­ternoon, just 36 hours before his squad goes wheels-up for santa clara, california. “[we] got to a regional, which was great, got our program back to a level of play that we feel like it should be at, which is great, but we just want to continue to get better. 
“we want to continue to try to become as good as we can be, and with this particular squad, that could potentially be a pretty high place.” 
The core of the 2015 squad that finished the season 37-23 overall and 17-13 in the acc remains in place as the irish head west to open their season with a three-game series against santa clara. 
The irish return four of the five pitchers who threw at least 60 innings last season: senior right-hander nick mccarty, ju­niors left-hander scott Tully and right-hander ryan smoyer and sophomore right-hander brandon bielak. 

additionally, of the eight po­sition players who appeared in 45 games or more last season, notre dame returns six: seniors shortstop lane richards, first baseman Zak Kutsulis and out­fielder Kyle richardson as well as juniors third baseman Kyle fiala, second baseman cavan biggio and catcher ryan lidge. a seventh, graduated outfielder robert youngdahl, is still with the program as a volunteer assis­tant coach. 
“The pitching staff, i think it’s deep, i think it’s experienced and i think it’s talented,” aoki said. “but i think you could use those same adjectives for our infield. That fits. our infield and our pitching i think probably are the heart and soul and the strength to our team.” 
all four infielders — from third to first: fiala, richards, rawlings gold glove winner biggio and Kutsulis — return for a notre dame defense that led all of 
see baseball PAGE 13 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Experienced Irish set to pursue first national title 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
forgive irish head coach Kevin corrigan if he has grown a few more gray hairs than most over the last de­cade or so. 
notre dame, which opens its 2016 season saturday against georgetown in atlanta, has now lost to the eventual national champion in the ncaa tournament eight of the last 10 years, only once by two or more goals. after falling in the fi­nal to duke in 2014 and the semifinals to denver last year, corrigan might have the best roster in his 28­year tenure as notre dame’s coach — that’s at least what the media thinks, as the irish are ranked no. 1 in the pre­season rankings. corrigan, on the other hand, doesn’t see this season as being na­tional championship or bust. 
“we don’t talk about it that way,” corrigan said. “we felt like we’ve had a team good enough to win a national 
see m laX PAGE 15 




