The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 103 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Indiana Senate passes House Bill 1022 
Legislation will mandate private university police departments to make records available to public 
Observer Staff Report 
The indiana senate passed a bill on Tuesday to change state law surrounding the extent to which private university police departments are required to make their records available to the public. 
house bill 1022 passed was ap­proved in the senate by a 49-to­1 vote, according to the indiana general assembly’s website. The bill will return to the house, where it was approved unani­mously on Jan. 26, for further consideration of an amend­ment proposed by sen. sue glick (r-lagrange) and passed by the senate. 
police departments at private universities in indiana are cur­rently not required to disclose the same range of records as public police departments. in its original state, the bill would require private university police departments to release records relating to arrests and incarcera­tions to the public. 
The amendment changed the bill to give individuals employed by educational institutions as police officers the same statuto­ry immunities granted to a state police officer. it also redefined the situations in which a private university’s police department 
see bill PAGE 4 




howard hall Two Saint Mary’s students hosts lenten granted Orr Fellowships 
event, interviews with board and become part of the orr 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 

news writer members and interviews with family.” four potential employers in hlavin said her time at saint for every day of lent in a saint mary’s seniors one day. mary’s for helping cultivate 

chapel crawl 
By ANDREA VALE 

news writer different chapel on cam-lauren hlavin and lauren “saint mary’s girls who are her abilities as a young entre­
pus, so that students have Jamieson were chosen for The currently in the fellowship preneur, fostering her sense 
students participat-the opportunity to attend governor bob orr indiana helped me to understand of creativity, innovation and ing in howard hall’s sig-mass in every chapel,” entrepreneurial fellowship, what exactly the fellowship independence. she said her nature event, the lenten patton said, “it doesn’t ac-a program that gives stu-is and got me excited for all professors and classes helped chapel crawl, will visit tually work out that we get dents the opportunity to the opportunities it offers,” mold her into a well-rounded 28 residence hall chapels to celebrate mass in every join growing companies in Jamieson said. “They an-person. throughout the liturgi-one, but for those we can’t indianapolis and develop swered all my questions and “i have had endless lead-cal season. The chapel schedule mass in, we do a their business skills. helped me through the entire ership opportunities, which crawl, which began on ash rosary in that chapel as an according to hlavin, there interview process.” have pushed me to excel in wednesday and continues opportunity for everyone 
hlavin said she is excited to 



through march 23, is lead to see all of the chapels 
by howard liturgical com-during lent.” 
missioners marissa browne according to the chapel join the indianapolis-based 
startup company, digby 
home automation, llc. 
“i am really anxious to get 
to work,” she said. “right now 
it is hard to have a ‘hands-off’ 
approach, especially since 
and emily patton. 

crawl facebook page, 
Throughout the lenten many residence halls’ sig­

chapel crawl, students nature masses are includ­

attend pre-scheduled ed in the chapel crawl 

i will be joining a start-up 

monday through saturday, schedule, including the 
where the beginning of the 

and are instructed to at-howard hall monday night 
tend their own dorm’s chapel mass on sundays, brown said. There are no chapel crawl masses from march 5 through march 12, due to spring break. 
patton said the goal is that participants will visit each of the university’s 28 undergraduate residence halls throughout lent. 
“during the chapel crawl, we schedule a mass muffin mass, the duncan hall Tuesday night donut mass and the dillon hall Thursday night milkshake mass. although all other residence hall masses are attended only once during the chapel crawl, howard’s monday night mass is in­cluded multiple times. 

“we’ve met a lot of people 
see chapel PAGE 4 
were over 800 applicants this recruitment season, and hlavin and Jamieson were 
accepted as  two  of  the  47  
fellows.  
with the help of  college  

alumnae, Jamieson said she was able to enter the exten­sive interview process with a better understanding of the fellowship. Jamieson had to prepare for activities such as an on-campus scouting enterprise is where you’ll get the most raw experience and knowledge.” 
Jamieson said she is look­ing forward to start her life in indianapolis, working at cloudone, a company dedi­cated to providing clients with a secure cloud network. 
“i can’t think of a better fit for me post-graduation,” she said. “i am excited to enter the indianapolis community areas where i wouldn’t have naturally gone,” she said. “i feel confident and capable in my area of study, as well as others, thanks to professors and students who are above par in every way possible.” 
Jamieson said the fellow­ship gives them the opportu­nity to interact and grow with other young business leaders. 
see fellowship PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 men’s baskeTball PAGE 12 fencing PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What was your reaction to Leo winning an Oscar on Sunday? 

Niko Martinovic 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Just look at my hair.” 
Brady Matthews 
freshman Zahm house 
“finally.” 
Matt Ferriero 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“he’s still soft.” 


Mark Brahier 
senior Zahm house 
“i was happy for my friends who were happy for him. personally, i don’t care.” 
Sophie Brahos 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“i wiped my roommate’s tears of joy.” 
Ben Granberry 
junior Zahm house 
“it’s too bad for all of the memes out there.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: andrea vale hunter mcdaniel alex winegar r.J. stempak 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
lucy du kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Diversity Panel Mindful Meditation Edit-a-thon Men’s Basketball vs. Men’s Tennis vs. 
caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 
Oak Room Coleman-Morse Notre Dame Center for NC State Louisville South Dining Hall Center Arts & Culture Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion 
6:30p.m. -8 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 
Corrections 

Forum discussing Open to students of all Edit Wikipedia with ND The Irish take on the The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as diversity. faiths. Black Lives Matter. Wolfpack. Cardinals. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball vs. Iron Sharpens Iron Graduate Student Hats Off to Reading Chamber Music 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Miami Coleman-Morse First Friday Dinner Notre Dame Bookstore Concert 
however, recognize that we will make 
Purcell Pavilion Center Coleman-Morse 10 a.m.-11 a.m. DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Center Reading of “The Lorax” Arts Center. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the Fellowship for all 6:15 p.m.-7:30 p.m. and sustainability 2:30 p.m.-3:45 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

Hurricanes . denominations. All faiths are invited. discussion. “20th Century Masters.” 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | The observer 

speaker discusses women in stand-up comedy 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
mary beth haralovich, a pro­fessor of theatre, film and televi­sion at the university of arizona, spoke Tuesday on the progres­sion of women in stand-up com­edy in a lecture sponsored by the department of film, Television, and Theatre and the gender studies program. 
haralovich said as women’s roles have evolved throughout history, the type of comedy fe­male stand-ups are able to per­form has changed, as well. 
“The kind of characters stand-up women can be changes over time with the historical circum­stance,” she said. “This comedy expresses women’s experience and women’s history, and it opens doorways into our nation­al, cultural heritage.” 
female comedy usually falls into one of three basic catego­ries, haralovich said, the earliest of which was a critique on the stereotypical housewife role. 
“The first popular female com­ics are these housewife roles,” she said. “a performance about domesticity, linking female com­edy with the home and women’s identity as a homemaker, and i feel as if these women are a re­sponse to that old male comic shtick, which is ‘Take my wife, please,’  those kind of jokes.” 
haralovich said this comedy developed into a more neutral form of comedy, in which gender roles are not necessarily defined. 
“The second type of comic riff is … the standup woman comic as a person, not especially gen­dered, but reaching across to kind of embrace the human con­dition,” haralovich said. “she’s not necessarily self-defined as female, and she doesn’t nec­essarily do women-oriented characters or women-oriented comedy.” 
The most common form of fe­male comedy now, haralovich said, is comedy about societal is­sues impacting women. 
“The final comic riff is an explo­ration of what’s happening today,” she said. “These women today, they’re diverse women, they’re desiring women — they do com­edy now about women’s desires, women’s sexuality — their voices come from the margins, they’re not necessarily [the] mainstream housewife position.” 
haralovich said one chal­lenge female comics have faced throughout history, and are still facing today, is needing to be ac­
“This comedy expresses women’s experience and women’s history, and it opens doorways into our national, cultural heritage.” 
Mary Beth Haralovich 
professor 
University of Arizona 
cepted by the male “gatekeepers” of the comedy industry before be­ing granted access to an audience. 
“There are performers, espe­cially late-night Tv hosts and industry executives, who grant access to the Tv audience,” she said. “They allow this self-critical, self-demeaning character to have access to television audiences. 
They invite the content of this comedy to enter into the main­stream discourse. … The gate­keepers also have a lot of power in the industry.” 
developments in television have allowed female comics to play a more active role in the field, haralovich said. 
“hbo is a significant force in allowing comedians and what they consider to be uncensored comedians,” she said. “on hbo, through paid subscription, view­ers were able to see performers who were open to diverse sexual­ity and a diverse presence.” 
haralovich said this is impor­tant in recognizing that comedy is a profession for women as well as men. 
“it’s a profession. They’re ac­tual, working women,” she said. “They’re creative profession­als in the entertainment indus­try. They have the courage to do performance. … Their routines are, of course, they’re developed, they’re practiced, they’re worked through, but it’s still a live perfor­mance in front of strangers.” 
many of these women are choosing to create their own roles instead of having men write roles for them, haralovich said, allow­ing them to confront the issues they want to discuss. 
“stand-up women comics, they write their own parts,” she said. “i just think it’s a wonderful op­portunity for someone to express [herself], but also that can be re­ally meaningful to people in the audience who are listening and learning from it.” 
haralovich said female comics are starting to call for change and address societal issues through humor. 
“stand-up women today, there are so many of them, and they’re social interpreters,” she said. “comedy has the power to con­front restrictions, to confront ste­reotypes and to turn negativity into the joy of humor. i think that’s what is one of the greatest parts about all these women comedi­ans. They joyful in their critique, they’re joyful in pointing out pa­triarchal systems of oppression, in pointing out conventions that affect women’s self-image.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 

SMC alumna starts body image campaign 
has created a social media is a junior advisory board 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 

news writer campaign to spur discus-member for project heal, a sions on body image. class of non-profit organization that one saint mary’s alumna 2011 alumna christina grasso provides financial grants to 
paid adverTisemenT 


those battling eating disorders who cannot afford treatment themselves. The organization announced the campaign ti­tled #whatmakesmebeautiful to coincide with last week’s 
national  eating  disorders  
awareness week.  
grasso  said  her  intention  

with the campaign is to en­courage the idea that beauty is not a size, and she is thrilled to see her idea come to life. project heal collaborated with pho­tographer arthur belebeau on a photo shoot, featuring women of a variety of body types and backgrounds. The campaign’s goal is to encourage the initia­tion of conversations regarding female beauty and health. 
“The inspiration behind this campaign was the frustration i have felt as someone who has worked extensively in both the fashion industry and in the area of eating disorder activ­ism,” grasso said. “i feel like these diverse experiences have provided me with a unique perspective on body image, especially when it comes to the messages we receive from mainstream media and other life sources. past efforts meant to empower women by cham­pioning one body type over the rest have really missed the mark, because neither beauty nor health are a size. a woman is just as ‘real’ curvy as she is thin, as well as anything in be­tween or beyond those labels. one’s physical attributes do not determine a woman’s real­ness, or her beauty.” 
grasso said she believes the message is an important one for both the women of saint mary’s and the notre dame community as a whole, and she is happy to be the one to start important conversations. 
“i wanted this to serve as a catalyst for those kinds of con­versations, because not only are they important and help­ful, but also because deep con­nection is the avenue to seeing someone’s real beauty,” grasso said. “while it can seem unfor­tunate that so many of us can relate in feeling inadequate or excessive or maybe even both, initiatives such as these show the impact of engaging in this dialogue and how much we can accomplish together being in­clusive rather than exclusive.” 
during her time at saint mary’s, grasso said she was secretly battling an eating dis­order but was able to overcome the disorder with the help of the friends she made while at the college. she said the ac­ceptance and support she felt as an undergrad is the rea­son she was able to create the campaign. 
“my years at saint mary’s re­ally shaped me in to the strong, creative woman i am today,” she said. “it’s such a special place where young women are encouraged to explore their endless possibilities. The aca­demics are competitive, yes, but i always felt that i was part of a community where women had each other’s backs — and that’s not always the case in ev­eryday life.” 
Contact Sydney Enlow at  senlow01@saintmarys.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Chapel 
conTinued from page 1 
through it who’ve wanted to attend daily mass during lent, and so it’s kind of a cool way to meet people who share that commitment to their faith and also to see what mass is like in other chapels,” patton said. “for instance, we went to welsh fam mass, and they have this totally unique 
“Our hope is that people ... can come with us if they want to experience different Masses on campus.” 
Emily Patton 
co-liturgical commissioner 
Howard Hall 
vibe where they sit down on the ground and do mass — and that’s something i never would have ever even known happens, so it’s interesting to see how the different chapels celebrate mass.” 
browne said while coor­dinating all of the masses to fit into a schedule to last through all of lent was dif­ficult, once the chapel crawl began this it has been a rela­tively easy event to run. both organizers encouraged all members of the community 
—
 not just howard residents 

—
 to participate. 


“it’s campus-wide,” browne said. “we encourage everyone to join us.” 
“we go to mass together, but we also want to try at some point to organize a meal together with the peo­ple who have been coming to mass,” patton said. 
patton said she hopes for an increased participation in the chapel crawl as the event continues. 
“we just want to get more people involved and give them the opportunity to go to mass every day with a group of people, if that’s something they’d like to do during lent,” patton said. “one of the girls comes al­most every day with us, and she says that she’d always gone to daily lenten mass with her father at home, and now she does it here. our hope is that people like that can come with us if they want to experience different masses on campus.” 
The daily schedule for the chapel crawl is available on the howard hall chapel crawl 2016 facebook page. 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 
in notre dame’s favor by the st. Joseph superior court, was ap­pealed by espn. attorneys from both parties presented their oral arguments in the indiana court of appeals on wednesday and expect a ruling to be issued soon. 
bauer, a notre dame alum­nus, said the bill is not a di­rect result of the espn lawsuit. rather, he said the bill stems from concerns raised by indiana citizens, including many notre dame graduates. 
Bill 
conTinued from page 1 

must make its records available to the public. 
glick said the amendment will likely address criticism that the bill does not require private university police departments to disclose enough information, according to the south bend Tribune. 
state rep. patrick bauer (d-south bend), co-author of the bill, said in a previous interview with The observer the purpose of the bill is to require university police departments to be more transparent with their public records. if passed, the bill would apply to notre dame security police (ndsp), the university’s private police force. 
in January 2015, espn filed a lawsuit against the university after ndsp refused to grant an espn reporter access to campus police records related to stu­dent-athletes. The case, ruled opportunity for personal and professional growth.” 
hlavin said she is looking forward to her future as an orr fellow. 
“it has been a wild ride so far, and i cannot wait for the next orr adventure,” she said. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 
Fellowship 
conTinued from page 1 

“i am looking forward to the curriculum that is of­fered and the opportunities i will have to expand my net­work and continue learning about myself and what path i want to pursue after my time with orr,” Jamieson said. 
hlavin said the fellowship offers a “truly one-of-a-kind” experience. 
“ ... and to be amongst some of the top-tear grads of 2016 will undoubted­ly be challenging yet ex­tremely rewarding,” hlavin said.“each fellow brings a difference perspective, focus and form of creativity, which makes this an outstanding 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene writer 

going to the movies just isn’t what it used to be. if you wanted to see a movie in the early 2000s, you had few choices: 
1) rent a movie at blockbuster, 2) find a movie at the library or 3) go to the movie theater. mom always complained about how expensive blockbuster was, and my brother and i weren’t about to dig through the library’s pitiful collection of vhs tapes, so going to the movies was about the only option for our family. as a result, my parents were dragged along to a array of horrible movies. 
my parents might never fully recover from “spy kids 3-d,” but as a society we’ve come a long way since then. netflix and hulu have placed thousands of hours of entertainment at our fingertips. redbox has made obtaining a recently-released movie cheap and easy. even my local li­brary has amassed a sizable collection of quality blu-rays. add the fact that review aggregators like rotten Tomatoes have become commonplace, and it’s easy to see why movie-watching has become a more accessible hobby. 
it’s also easy to see why film studios are starting to sweat. with all of those options, audiences are becoming more discerning in how 
By JOHN AHN 
scene writer 

from his best supporting actor nomi­nation in 1993 for “what’s eating gilbert grape” to his best actor nomination for “The wolf of wall street” in 2014, leonardo dicaprio has been no strang­er to the red carpet, but no camera has ever before captured his walk onto the stage to receive an oscar. his copious nominations without a single victory elicited a public frustration as millions of his fans cried for just recognition of his work. 
as of feb. 28, the wait is over — the 41-year-old won an oscar for best actor for “The revenant” in which he played hugh glass, an american survivalist battling against the elements after a se­vere bear attack. 
This academy award is not an isolated achievement. The coveted golden trophy is tantamount to recognition for decades they spend their entertainment dollars. Theater attendance in 2014 was the low­est it had been since 1995 according to business insider. last year attendance re­covered slightly but still didn’t approach the heights of the pre-recession years. The theater experience is no longer enough to motivate cinephiles to spend $10 for a sin­gle movie ticket. That much money could get them a whole month of unlimited movies on netflix these days. no, today’s prospective theatergoers demand quality more than ever. 
enter rotten Tomatoes. The review ag­gregator was launched in 1998, but didn’t break into the public consciousness until the past decade or so. it strains down the vast spectrum of critical opinion into a single, easily-understandable rating en­dearingly called the “Tomatometer.” it’s an incredibly valuable resource for casual movie fans. 
problems arise, however, when the re­views start to matter more than the mov­ie. last year, movies like “Terminator: genisys” and “fantastic four” fell far short of pre-release projections, owing in large part to the negative perception gen­erated on rotten Tomatoes and Twitter. in an interview with the hollywood reporter, paramount executive megan colligan said, “This was a summer completely designed by review and 
of dicaprio’s masterful craft: his iconic and swoon-inducing performance in “Titanic,” his fierce depiction of the cruel antebellum south in “django unchained” and his candid reflection of the greed-driven corporate culture in “The wolf of wall street.” This recogni­tion of dicaprio’s uncompromisingly impressive acting extends beyond a cel­ebration of his work. The award shines light on how the actor uses his fame and influence to deliver a message greater than the movie industry, such as the ur­gent need for environmental activism. 
during his career, dicaprio depicted some of the characters we most cher­ish. he represented them truthfully, respectfully and convincingly so that they may live in the viewers’ hearts not as extensions of leonardo dicaprio the actor, but as vivid individuals with un­mistakable identities. some of his works have become cultural phenomena larg­er than themselves. for instance, his word-of-mouth … i would actually hear people in the grocery store talking about rotten Tomatoes scores.” according to a survey by brightlocal 92% of the more than 2,000 people surveyed admitted to reading online reviews. on the night of the oscars 700,000 unique visitors in the us alone checked rotten Tomatoes. over the last 30 days, the number of unique vis­itors worldwide added up to 24.9 million people. almost 25 million people over the last month consulted rotten Tomatoes to learn what critics thought about a movie or Tv show. it’s no wonder that studios have started advertising the Tomatometer score on posters, trailers, and dvd cases. 

with all this industry clout, reviews by rotten Tomatoes and others are more contentious than ever. in october 2015, the popular statistical analysis website fiveThirtyeight put movie review web­sites under the microscope and found some interesting results. The popular ticket seller fandango blatantly inflated their movie ratings. of the 209 movies that had 30 or more reviews none had a rat­ing of less than 3-stars. when fandango didn’t provide a satisfactory answer to this inexplicable, borderline impossible, finding the writer looked into the coding of the website. he found that fandango rounded all reviews up to the nearest half star. so if you gave a movie a score of 3.1/5 
performance in christopher nolan’s “inception” has contributed to the film’s premise becoming synonymous with modern cerebral fiction. his depiction of Jordan belfort as a ruthless, calculating, and dishonorable stockbroker in “The wolf of wall street” has helped the film become an exposé of the faults that lie within the financial sector and wealth’s ability to breed corruption. The actor has even become one of america’s most beloved and iconic literary characters in “The great gatsby.” 
leonardo dicaprio is not merely hollywood’s profit driver, he embodies cinema’s ability to surprise, inspire and grow. 
dicaprio’s impact was furthered in his acceptance speech. during his long awaited moment of fame, he reiterated his support for environmental activism, a cause which he has publicly advocated throughout his career. he stated during the speech, “climate change is real. it on fandango, your review would be dis­played as 3.5/5 stars. while that doesn’t explain the lack of even lower reviews, it does demonstrate the tampering used to boost sales. 
(as an aside, fandango purchased rotten Tomatoes and its parent site flixster in february.) 
while this intentional tampering may not affect every review aggregator, almost every website suffers from questionable methodology. imdb reviews can fall vic­tim to mob mentality and the anonymity of the internet. metacritic encounters the challenges of assigning numerical val­ues to reviews that use letter grades and deciding which critics to track. rotten Tomatoes suffers from a binary rating system, where a universally decent movie can be rated better than a controversial one. 
with so much money at risk, is it pos­sible for rotten Tomatoes and similar sites to remain impartial? do these sites owe it to studios to withhold reviews until after the movie is released? do they owe it to fans to release reviews as soon as possible? 
or is rotten Tomatoes here to hold stu­dios accountable and save us from “spy kids 3-d”? 
Contact Matthew Macke at            mmacke@nd.edu 
is happening right now. it is a most ur­gent threat facing our entire species. […] let us not take this planet for granted. i do not take tonight for granted.” such a statement encapsulates the essence of dicaprio’s contribution. rather than using his considerable wealth for self-indulgence, he has fervently fought against issues that endanger humanity’s future prospects. 
The oscar is a suitable validation for dicaprio’s life’s work in the cinema in­dustry. admirably, he created from this recognition a message greater than his performance — he demonstrated how fame can lend significant leverage for ac­tors to advocate for crucial causes. with the recent announcement that dicaprio will star in martin scorsese’s adaptation of “The devil in the white city,” fans of cinema have reason to be excited for his future in film. 
Contact John Ahn at jahn5@nd.edu 
LUCY DU | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

put mental health first 

Wei Lin 
assistant managing editor 

Two of my dearest friends recently informed me of their decisions to take leaves of absence and push off graduation. 
i wish they could stay and graduate with me, but that would selfish. instead, i want to thank them so much for letting me know personally and also for tak­ing such courageous steps. i’m glad they were able to confide in me and talk about the issues they were facing. i’m so proud they sought help when they needed it and made the decisions they made. 
To those who are dealing with demons of their own, you aren’t alone. according to the national alliance on mental illness (nami), a third of all college students have reported prolonged periods of de­pression and about a quarter of all stu­dents reported having suicidal thoughts. while these numbers change from sur­vey to survey, one thing is clear: mental health is a huge issue that many of our fellow brothers and sisters face. 
To those who know of friends who are dealing with mental health issues, please reach out to them. ask them how their day is going. let them know that you’re there for them. make sure that you are someone they can trust. according to active minds, a national mental health advocacy group, 67 percent of college students tell a friend they are feeling suicidal before telling anyone else. you may very well be the per­son they turn to in their time of need. 
when my friend first told me she want­ed to leave, i asked her not to leave, to stay, to graduate together. Thinking back, that was so selfish of me. in her time of need, i thought about myself and forgot momen­tarily about what was most important — her health. 
after weeks speaking with faculty, staff and friends, she made her final deci­sion. i was sad to hear this. i had so much planned for us during senior week. i thought we were going to take our gradu­ation pictures around campus, have our last dining hall meal together, get each other stoles of gratitude, finish everything on our notre dame bucket lists, and of course, walk together. i will miss her, but i know she chose what is best for her. 
shortly afterwards, my second friend told me her plans to take a term off. The news took me by surprise, and i needed a moment to process it. in the end, i think i had already learned my lesson. rather than ask her to stay and reconsider her de­cision, i told her i was happy for her. and i truly am. i couldn’t be happier to see her confront her problem and be at peace. 
To these two beautiful, brave women i call my friends, i just want to say that while we might not walk together to re­ceive our diplomas, i promise you that i will be here when you receive yours. 
Contact Wei Lin at wlin4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

in 2010, facebook’s chief operating officer sheryl sandberg gave a Ted talk that addressed why so few women reach the top of their fields. she suggested that not many women can be found in the upper echelons of the business world because women do not “lean in.” 
in other words, women are largely responsible for their lack of professional success. This misguided ver­sion of feminism emphasizes that being a woman may be a challenge, but it is one that women can overcome if they just put in a bit more effort. 
popular discourse on disability presents us with a similar theme: overcoming a disability. it is quite common to hear of someone who is disabled, either physically or mentally, being able to overcome their disability and rise above the difficulty that their dif­ference causes in their daily life. The huffington post even has a web page devoted to such stories. 
“you are a credit to your race” is a phrase that im­plies that people of color also have a problem to solve 
— that of not being white. This statement suggests that a person of color has managed to overcome the obsta­cle of not having a porcelain complexion. 
These stories coalesce into a greater narrative of overcoming, which is more harmful to our discussion of these topics than it would initially seem. while at first, certain accounts may appear to be inspiring, we must look beyond them and consider their underlying implications. 
we must question if it is appropriate to consider being disabled, a woman or a person of color as chal­lenges that people should constantly be striving to overcome. 
first, it is important to consider whether such a cat­egorization is actually a problem. when we classify part of someone’s lived experience as a challenge, we unnecessarily impose a negative connotation upon it. Their difference is suddenly something that must be cured, fixed or adapted to become more similar to the accepted norm. 
This assumes that a person cannot live a happy, pro­ductive life if they are not an able-bodied white male who is perfectly healthy in almost every way. 
next, we must question what this narrative means for those who are unable or choose not to overcome these challenges. 
consider someone who identifies as having a physi­cal disability, for example. if we are to classify using a wheelchair as a challenge, what does that mean for people who will certainly have to use a wheelchair for the rest of their lives? what about those who cannot afford physical therapy which may bring them closer to being able-bodied? 
The narrative of overcoming turns such people into  perceived failures. it says that because they are not able to fix this aspect of their life that has been deemed a challenge, they have been defeated. This defeat is pervasive, characterizing many of their future endeavors. 
This failure then becomes an all-consuming charac­ter trait. it defines the person as one-dimensional by reducing them to this one “failure” in their life. 
we stop seeing them as a complex, multidimen­sional person with many different traits. instead, they become a person only deserving of our pity. The challenge that they were unable to overcome has com­pletely overwhelmed their life. 
i do not mean to take away from the accomplish­ments of people who have worked hard to find ways to make their day to day lives easier and achieve things that are extraordinary for anyone. rather, i suggest that it may be harmful to continue to build up and support the narrative of overcoming that is so perva­sive in contemporary discussions of these topics. 
being able to overcome adversity is a great triumph and something to be celebrated. of course, no one’s life will be without difficulty. we should be sure to cherish significant accomplishments in life. 
however, we must be careful when considering what we will classify as problems and challenges in need of overcoming. while certain characteristics may put a person at a disadvantage in the world as it is today, this does not mean that a certain aspect of their lived experience is the problem itself. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. She lives in Lewis Hall and studies political  science with a minor in international development studies. She can be reached at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

a record-breaking day of man 
To the communities of notre dame and st. mary’s, we cannot express how thankful we are. 
while every year we are impressed by how day of man displays the generosity of this community, you have truly left us, all of siegfried hall and those at the south bend center for the homeless, speechless with your efforts this year. 
as of monday, feb. 29, between the cash and venmo donations collected on day of man as well as checks and online donations, day of man this year has raised more than $20,500 for the south bend center for the homeless. 
This is by far our largest ever total and an increase of over 50 percent from last year. 
while we organize this event, this sort of success is not possible without all of you, and we cannot thank you enough for your support. 
on behalf of the men of siegfried hall and the south bend center for the homeless, thank you. here’s to the next 10 years of being bold, being cold and fighting to end homelessness.
        Alex Campbell 
senior
   Michael Hernick 
sophomore
         Shane Jenkins 
sophomore march 1 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
A good shepherd 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

folk drama is a tradition from medieval europe that used staged presentations to convey stories and lessons generally drawn from religious teach­ings. 
begun at a time when the mass, sacraments and ceremonies were mainly in latin, these plays were presented in the local vernacular and allowed the audience to participate in the stories more person­ally than formal religion allowed. 
The mexican-american community in the southwest united states continued the tradition of religious folk dramas. prime examples are the christmas-time plays of “las posadas” and “los pastores.” 
“las posadas” (“The inns”), based on st. lukes’s account of Joseph and mary’s search for shelter, hews closely to the scriptural story, and is presented in many catholic schools and parishes, typically as an opportunity to involve scores of children cos­tumed as shepherds and angels. 
“los pastores” (“The shepherds”) is a more com­plicated play, following the journey of a collection of shepherds to the manger where christ is to be born, and cataloging the efforts of satan and the forces of evil to block mankind’s salvation. 
The play includes subtle humor, such as when lucifer tries to discover from one of the shepherds whether the christ child has been born, and is frustrated by foolish answers resulting from the shepherd’s “misunderstanding” of simple ques­tions. The play often uses local names, with props and costumes anachronistically echoing mexican­american culture. 
one version of the play was translated, edited and published by carmelo antonio Tranchese in 1949. years before, Tranchese undertook his own ram­bling journey as a shepherd, and wrestled with dark forces threatening his flock. 
Tranchese was born outside naples, italy, in 1880. he entered the Jesuit order, studied in naples and malta, and completed his theological studies at st. bueno’s college in north wales. ordained in 1910, Tranchese began his missionary life in albuquerque, new mexico, before being sent to el paso, Texas and san Jose, california. 
in 1932, Tranchese was installed as the pastor of our lady of guadalupe church on the west side of san antonio, home for most of the city’s 85,000 mexican americans. 
working conditions and wages were pitiable, and housing was dilapidated and disease-infested. Tranchese helped to establish a health clinic that taught disease prevention and offered free vaccina­tions and medical care. he championed efforts to improve working conditions and wages, and sup­ported local strikes, soliciting provisions and estab­lishing breadlines for striking pecan-shellers. 
in radio addresses and newspaper columns, Tranchese noted that government regulated mini­mum standards for horse and cattle stables. he thought, why not be more concerned about the people, not just the animals, who suffer in squalid housing? 
in order to address the nationwide crisis in hous­ing, the united states housing authority (usha) was established in 1937. san antonio began its own housing authority later that year. 
Tranchese was among the five city housing com­missioners, and he immediately set about trying to improve conditions for his flock. 
Tranchese helped to persuade the usha and president roosevelt to approve a major hous­ing project, and in september 1937 the usha agreed to fund the san antonio housing pro­gram that included the alazan-apache courts for mexican-americans. 
opponents of public housing, many of whom were already angered by Tranchese’s support of striking workers, threatened  Tranchese’s life and slandered his character. of the hundreds of slumlords that needed to be bought out, many demanded excessive compensation for what typically were little more than tin-roofed shacks with dirt floors, scrap-mate­rial walls and no indoor plumbing. 
in response, the usha administrator ordered the projects stopped in early 1939. 
Tranchese, oblivious to protocol and filled with a foolish faith, appealed directly to eleanor roosevelt when she visited san antonio later that year. work shortly resumed on the housing projects. 
The projects, completed in 1942, contained mul­tiple single-family dwellings, ranging from three to six-and-a-half rooms each, including private bath­rooms and kitchens. The developed neighborhoods featured libraries, health clinics, and recreational programs. 
The usha required united states citizenship to reduce the applicants who far outnumbered the available units. The occupants of the alazan­apache courts formed a tenants’ association to maintain the project, and their residences were judged by some observers to be “the best main­tained housing project in the united states.” 
more public housing was needed, but the emerg­ing demands of world war ii choked off funds and public housing development in san antonio ceased until the 1950s. 
Tranchese continued to push for more services and better housing. in order to keep his community informed and educated about church and local af­fairs, he initiated the first spanish archdiocesan sunday newsletter in Texas, la voz de la parroquia, which was circulated throughout parishes in the southwestern united states. 
he continued to serve his parish and the people of san antonio, and the once-reviled priest was now honored as “el padrecito” — a priest of the people. 
in 1953, he suffered a breakdown, and church of­ficials sent Tranchese to grand coteau, louisiana, to recuperate. he spent his remaining years there and died of a heart attack on July 13, 1956. 
Tranchese surely felt a close kinship with the shepherds of “los pastores” — simple men on a journey to meet their redeemer, forced to fool and frustrate evil forces along the way. faced with satan’s deep and talented bench, we pray for more good shepherds to lead us. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Trump is not a strong leader 
This past friday morning, i turned on cnn and watched new Jersey governor chris christie endorse donald Trump for president of the united states. The reason for this endorsement, according to governor christie, was Trump’s strength. 
“There is no one,” he claimed, “who is better pre­pared to provide america with the strong leadership that it needs, both at home and around the world, than donald Trump.” 
as a republican, and as someone who has always had a deep respect for governor christie, i was shocked, disappointed and embarrassed. more than anything, however, i was confused. 
i couldn’t help but ask myself: when did this idea that donald Trump is the “strong” candidate take hold? at which moment did governor christie decide that donald Trump is “tough”? 
was it back in 2006, when donald Trump took an elderly woman to court (and lost) after she refused to let him use eminent domain to destroy her home and build a casino parking garage on top of it? 
was it on July 16 of last year, when donald Trump referred to mexican immigrants to the united states 
— men and women who risk everything in search of a better life for their families — as “criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc.”? 
was it two days later, when donald Trump said that John mccain — a united states senator and american naval pilot who spent nearly six years being tortured as a prisoner of war in north vietnam 
— is “not a war hero. he was a war hero because he was captured. i like people who weren’t captured”? 
was it when donald Trump mocked a reporter’s disability, when he made disgusting, sexist remarks about fox news anchor megyn kelly or when he pro­posed banning all muslims from entering the united states? 
The truth is, i’m not exactly sure when governor christie decided that donald Trump was the “strong” candidate, but i have a feeling it was after January 27, 2016. 
on that day, less than one month ago, governor christie sent an e-mail to his supporters comment­ing on donald Trump’s refusal to participate in the upcoming fox news republican debate due to his dislike of moderator megyn kelly. 
“we cannot afford a president who will run away when things get tough or just because they don’t like the hand they were dealt,” christie wrote, referring to Trump. “let’s end this ridiculousness now and nomi­nate a strong, mature leader who is ready to take on the tough challenges of the presidency.” 
governor christie’s hypocritical endorsement of donald Trump underscores a frightening develop­ment in our national consciousness. somewhere amidst the absurdity of Trump-mania, we seem to have forgotten what true strength really is. 
True strength is not unbridled hostility. it’s not gloating over the latest poll or insulting your way through a two-hour long debate. True strength is humble confidence. it’s an unyielding respect for every person in our country and a firm desire to lead them through service, not bluster. 
despite all that was wrong about governor christie’s endorsement, however, he was right about one thing: This is the time for strength. 
our country faces serious problems: a failing edu­cation system, a growing racial divide and a medicare program that risks insolvency within the next 15 years, just to name a few. This is the time for an ex­ecutive who will lead with innovative ideas, not mali­cious rhetoric. 
This is the time for a president who can unite the country, not one who is determined to divide it. This is the time for a truly strong leader, not a vitriolic demagogue. 
in the words of america’s greatest fictional president and notre dame graduate, Josiah bartlet: “This is the time for american heroes, and we reach for the stars.” 
i will not be reaching for donald Trump. not in the primary election. not in the general election. i refuse to cast my vote for the weakest candidate in the field. 
Dawson Robinson 
senior feb. 27 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


PERSONAL 

LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
“It’s always around me, all this noise. But not really as loud as the voice saying. Let it happen, let it happen. Just let it happen, let it 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: be willing to listen and accept the inevitable. show strength and courage regardless of what others do or say. discipline will see you through any challenge you face. choose to be creative instead of indulgent. practicality and common sense with regard to health, wealth and love will help you gain steadily throughout the year and achieve the happiness you deserve. your numbers are 9, 16, 23, 34, 37, 42, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take your place at the top where you belong. show everyone what you have to offer. dig in and don’t stop until you are satisfied with your performance. a personal victory will require a celebration with someone you love. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): look for opportunities through people you have worked with in the past. someone you thought was gone from your life forever will surprise you. protect your money and possessions. now is not the time to take a risk. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stay one step ahead of the competition. observe what everyone else is doing and be ready to step up your game and outsmart anyone who messes with you. your charm and intelligence will make someone jealous. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll learn something valuable from someone who comes from a different background than you. you will be able to improve your relationships with others and your domestic environment if you are open to change and compromise. let your imagination lead the way. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): pick up the pace, but don’t be too quick to part with your money. The more you can do for yourself, the easier it will be on your bank account. a serious suggestion involving someone you fancy will improve your relationship.   


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): start a conversation with someone you find innovative. Together you will come up with a plan that can turn into a prosperous joint venture. putting in hard work on a demanding project will pay off. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): go after what you want. laziness will make you look bad and will not bring about the change you long for. get with it and make things happen. your charm and intellectual appeal will help you persuade others to pitch in and help. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): keep your opinion to yourself or you might regret it. spend your time doing something creative that encourages you to get out with friends who enjoy the same activities or events as you. don’t pick a fight. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): be careful when dealing with someone who is trying to manipulate your emotions. make changes at home that will improve your life and encourage you to take on projects that will result in more comfort and convenience. romance will enhance your life. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): offer help when it is deserved. don’t get sucked into doing something that will only prolong the inevitable. use common sense and be prepared to walk away from any deal or request that will leave you at a loss. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a change in how you earn your living or handle your money is favored. don’t be afraid to walk away from a bad situation or a poor influence. Take control of your life and market your skills. love is highlighted. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): negotiations aren’t likely to go in your favor. bide your time and assess your situation. preparation, along with gathering inside information, will be key to help you present what you’d like to see unfold. don’t sell yourself short. 


Birthday Baby: you are adaptable, aggressive and persuasive. you are unpredictable and trendy. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
happen. All this running around. Trying to cover my shadow. An ocean growing inside. All the others seem shallow. All this running around, bearing down on my shoulder, I can hear an alarm, must be morning. I heard about a whirl­wind that’s coming ‘round. It’s gonna carry off all that isn’t bound. And when it happens, when it happens. So let it happen, let it happen.” 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

nicknames need improvement 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
sports fans of the world, i speak to you today to bring your attention to a very large problem. This problem has plagued every league and it will only continue until we, as fans, demand change. 
The problem: too many stupid nicknames. 
look around the sports landscape, and you’ll see what i mean. There are nick­names that make no sense. There are nicknames that are lazy. There are nicknames that are offensive. and then there are nicknames that are just plain dumb. 
in a day and age where we have awesome names for virtual reality units like oculus rift, we still have ac­tual sports teams named the pacers or the clippers. 
if you know what a pacer is, please contact me, be­cause i would like to know. same goes for the nets or the knicks or the lakers … or the chargers or the mets or the phillies or the billikens. i know the lakers have won 16 titles, but what lake are they named after, pray tell? 
and even if you gave your team a made-up nickname, at least that’s better than be­ing so lazy you named your team after a color. looking at you cleveland (browns), cincinnati (reds), alabama (crimson Tide), harvard (crimson) and cornell (big red). 
unless the syracuse orange are playing the springfield colorblind or the grand rapids rappers, a color is a pretty dumb nickname. 
but even a color is better than a racist nickname. The washington redskins is just plain offensive, and even the blackhawks and the fighting irish are mildly racist as well. 
and then, there are some that are just plain dumb. we have two baseball teams named after socks. if you’re going to name a team after an article of clothing, use some­thing exciting like the cum­berbunds because socks are things i lose when i do laun­dry, not a baseball team. 
oakland athletics? why not the oakland hand-eye coordinations? montreal canadiens and houston Texans? how lazy can you be? 
also, new york, just a heads up, it’s not 1865 any­more. yankees may not be the best name, and neither is the rebels for that matter, mississippi. 
The one thing the pacers and the orange have going for them is originality. The nicknames mentioned above stand out because almost every other team in sports decided to go with some sort of animal. 
in collegiate sports there are currently 76 teams with the eagles as their mas­cot. seventy six. There are 46 Tigers, 40 bulldogs, 33 panthers and 28 hawks. in the “big four” profes­sional leagues there are two cardinals, two giants, two rangers, two Jets, two panthers and two kings. if the point of a nickname is to give your team identity and pride, these ones fail miserably. 
The good news is there are some teams that get it. nicknames like buccaneers, rockets, avalanche, diamondbacks and patriots sound intimidating and re­flect the identity of the area the team is from. The wnba excels at this as well, sport­ing mascots like the fever, mercury and lynx. 
even more examples can be found in the realm of esports. regular readers of the sports authority know that i’m a big proponent of esports and nicknames are one reason for this. 
Just some examples from league of legends include the immortals, cloud 9, renegades, origen, elements and — my personal favorite 
— the unicorns of love. 
while the lakers of love is unlikely to become a thing, traditional sports need a nickname makeover. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC TENNIS | smc 8, sT. francis 1; smc 9, wiTTenberg 0 
Saint Mary’s earns multiple wins to start year 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 

playing at home, saint mary’s triumphed with back-to-back wins friday and saturday. 
The belles (3-1) defeated st. francis, 8-1, on friday night, winning all three doubles flights and five out of six singles at notre dame’s eck Tennis pavilion.  The belles followed their victory with a 9-0 win against wittenberg the following day at lakeland athletic club in niles, michigan. 
although friday’s matchup finished as a blowout, the belles found themselves behind early in the doubles portion of the match. Junior sam setterblad and freshman monica davy and sophomore maddie minaudo and senior margaret faller each attained 8-4 wins at no. 1 and no. 2 doubles, respectively, af­ter trailing 4-3 on friday. Junior kaity venters and senior andrea fetters also recovered from a 2-1 deficit to post an 8-3 win at no. 3 doubles. 
belles head coach dale campbell said his team worked well under pressure after trailing at the start of their matches. 
“They seem to be very com­posed and do a nice job of gradu­ally escalating their games.  They are strong mentally, and i haven’t seen many looks of desperation,” campbell said. “They have most­ly gone point by point and playing at a pace where they are prepared for most points.” 
saint mary’s success comes not only from their doubles play but also from singles. The belles claimed victory in five of the six contests friday, and the women swept their competition with six singles victories and three wins in doubles saturday. campbell said having a dynamic team that can succeed in both singles and doubles play is valuable. 
“we talk about coming out with energy early in doubles.  Though we haven’t mastered that, i think that we are at least matching en­ergy with other teams and fig­uring out how to win as we go along,” campbell said. “in singles we talk about figuring out our op­ponents and what may work, so it seems though our team is trying to do that and succeeding to this point.  we will take the progress we are making.” 
saint mary’s now travels to florida for spring break where it hopes to continue building mo­mentum against more talented teams, campbell said. 
“The back-to-back wins are great for our confidence, and i thought we could at least be where we are,” he said. “we will have some tough competition coming up in florida, so we have to raise our games a bit more in the coming days.” 
campbell said florida will be a chance for the team to continue building chemistry and develop­ing their game. 
“i think we will learn how we battle outdoors and perhaps in some windy, sunny conditions,” campbell said. “we definitely get to know our team better over a five-match stretch, and they get to work with their teammates more as well.  it’s a great trip to get us ready for conference season and also to get us ready for a vari­ety of conditions and a variety of opponents.” 
Contact Victoria Llorens at       vllorens@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 

belles look to build on fall success in new season 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 

after finishing near the top of the conference in the fall, saint mary’s now heads into its spring season with high expectations. 
The belles finished third in the miaa and placed fourth or higher at seven of their eight competitions in the fall, in­cluding a pair of first-place fin­ishes. because of their strong finish in conference play dur­ing the fall, the belles will com­pete this spring against hope, olivet and Trine for the con­ference’s automatic qualifier to the ncaa tournament. for belles head coach kim moore, earning that automatic berth to the ncaa tournament is a top focus for her team going into the spring season. 
“we met our goal to get into the top four in our conference this past fall,” moore said. “now our goal is to win our conference’s ncaa bid and make it to nationals as a team. i’m more confident than ever that this group of girls can get it done, and that makes me so excited.” 
at a glance, saint mary’s will return eight players this spring with two studying abroad. The belles had five players with a scoring average better than 90 in the fall, led by se­niors sammie averill and katie Zielinski. moore said the belles must rely on both their veteran leadership and talented youth this spring. 
“we have lost two important players to our team this spring due to them going a semester abroad, so everyone on our team will have to really step up, but i am confident we have the players who are up to that chal­lenge,” moore said. “This group of girls is very tight and have some really lofty team goals in mind. They are really going to push and challenge each other this season. i think if they con­tinue to do that we will have a really successful spring.” 
The belles saw regular and consistent improvement from the whole team as the fall sea­son progressed, evidenced by their continually dropping scoring average. The team is led by averill, who became just the eighth golfer in program histo­ry to earn miaa most valuable golfer accolades for posting the lowest adjusted scoring av­erage. The senior also earned all-miaa first Team honors in addition to her season medal­ist recognition, and moore said she expects more of the same from her senior star this spring. 
“[sammie] is coming off her best individual season as a belle, and one of the best in­dividual seasons in program history, so i’m really expect­ing a lot of big things from her,” moore said. “she has worked hard athletically and academi­cally over the off-season, and i am really expecting her to use her successes from this past fall to help give her confidence this spring.” 
moore also mentioned ju­nior captain courtney carlson, who is also coming off her best season this past fall, as another belle who will have a large im­pact in the spring. 
“[courtney] is one of the hardest, if not the hardest, working player on this team and her efforts this off-season [have] really started to show in our early practice sessions,” moore said. “her swing is re­ally looking good, and her con­fidence is only growing.  i am excited to see how she and the rest of the team do once we can start practicing outside on a regular basis.” 
saint mary’s opens its spring season at the george fox invitational march 12-13 in peoria, arizona. 
Contact Joe Everett at                   jeveret4@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued from page 12 
for [the ncaa tournament]. it’s nice to have a really solid resume two weeks out from selection sunday.” 
Junior guard demetrius Jackson also stressed the im­portance of getting a double-bye and cited what it did for last year’s team. 
“Just having a feel for what it did for us last year,” Jackson said. “we had the time to go over some things as a group and re-collect, and i think that helped us going into the tournament.” 
The next hurdle for the irish is the home matchup against the hurricanes (23­5, 12-4). The two teams have already faced each other this year, with miami beating notre dame, 79-70, in early february. brey said having already lost to the hurricanes should provide the team with extra motivation. 
“i think you’re a little bit familiar, and i would think there’s a little chip on our shoulder because they thumped us pretty good down there,” brey said. “we didn’t have much of an an­swer for them. They’re a heck of team. They’re old, they’ve been together, they’ve won together. They’ve pointed to this year as being their year. and they’re playing for a regular season champion­ship, and we’re playing for a double-bye so [there is] a lot on the line wednesday.” 
in order to knock off miami the second time around, brey said the team has to focus on finding an offensive rhythm. The irish have been one of the most efficient offenses in the country, but have failed to score 70 points in three consecutive games. 
“i think we have to get back to offensive stuff,” brey said. “passing the ball, getting guys in better positions and stressing breakdown drills. ... our offensive efficiency will have to be back in gear. That’s who we’ve been as a program. That’s what this team has been.” 
Junior guard steve vasturia said defensive improvement would be a key to wednesday night’s matchup as well. 
“i think [miami has] a lot of weapons,” vasturia said. “They’re really athletic, they can get to the rim. last game, we had trouble guarding them. They did whatever they wanted to offensively. we’re going to have to do much bet­ter keeping them out of the paint and off the glass.” 
another factor that should help the irish is the home crowd. The irish are 13-1 this season at home, in­cluding wins over no. 8 court as fast as you can and get that bad taste out of your mouth,” vasturia said. “and that’s definitely what we’re going to do.” 


The irish tip-off against the hurricanes on wednesday at purcell pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
M Lax 
conTinued from page 12 
an early shot in the posses­sion, we just weren’t having the best opportunities. 
“against detroit, we fought for really good shots, or great shots we should say. 
north carolina and no. 11 louisville. 
“we’re really comfortable, especially being back home,” Jackson said. “our crowds have been great this year. ... when you’ve got a big crowd behind you, supporting you, that’s really energized us this year. we just try to use it to our advantage and go out and compete.” 
notre dame has also seemed comfortable bounc­ing back from losses. The team has not lost two games in a row this season, and 
vasturia  said  he  was  con­ 
fident  that  trend  would  
continue.  

“anytime you lose, you want to get back out on the 
transition thus far, but i think our standard offense is what we need to improve on, getting our shot percent­ages higher. 
“like i said, we need to fo­cus on taking the great shot, not the good shot, and [head coach kevin corringan] said all that comes if you have good stick work. stick work is the major part to focus on, and after that, it’s focusing on settling down and taking the great shot.” 
maryland heads to california after losing, 8-5, to then-no. 7 yale on sunday. freshman austin henningsen, who was re­cently named big Ten co-freshman of the week, won 13-of-16 faceoffs against the bulldogs, advancing his faceoff record to 22-of-28 (.786) on the season. The Terps have also seen strong performances from junior attack matt rambo, who notched four points against yale and became the 49th player to record 100 points in the school’s history. 
while both the irish and Terps have seen impressive performances from their in­dividual assets, wynne said it’s not about the solo effort. 
“everyone’s attitude on the team is that we know we have so many weapons, so we’re not concerned about the solo effort,” wynne said. “it’s about just doing your job, and if that results in you having a hell of a game, then that’s awesome, but if not, it’s ok. sometimes if i don’t score that much, we have other players that have awe­some games. it’s really about everybody being ready to ex­ecute their job every single time they step on the field so that whoever has the best opportunity to exploit a de­fense can do so.” 
notre dame and maryland face off at the pacific coast shootout in newport beach on saturday at 8 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
we always talk about that in practice. i think we did a re­ally good job of working the ball and not settling, getting the best shot possible.” 
The irish outshot both their opponents last week by significant margins. against detroit though, they were 14-of-39 on shots taken, giving them a 36-percent shot percentage. wynne said the irish are looking to im­prove that percentage mov­ing forward. 
“[stick work] was a point of emphasis as well as our six-on-six offense [during film monday],” wynne said. “we’ve done a great job in 




ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | The observer 

Fencing 
conTinued from page 12 
us. we all want the same thing — those precious slots at ncaas, whether as quali­fiers from our region or as at-large selections.” 
The ncaa’s 2016 regional allocations allow for 27 fenc­ers from the midwest region to move on to the final tourna­ment. last year, notre dame qualified the maximum num­ber of 12 entrants from one school, and kvaratskhelia aims to do that again. 
“it’s difficult for me to single out any one person who will do best,” kvaratskhelia said. “my hope is that we fence well enough so that the choice of whom to send to ncaas is in our hands, and that it will be a difficult choice. That’s the kind of dilemma i would be thrilled to have.” 

The irish have been com­petitive at the national level for several years now, but kvaratskhelia said his team has made great improvements beyond that foundation since the start of the season. 
“i’m very happy with our progression,” kvaratskhelia said. “we’ve improved mark­edly since the season began in november. we’re capable of further improvement, and our kids are willing to put in the work to get there. The way we fenced at accs was almost exactly where we wanted to be heading into regionals.” 
The irish hope to take that momentum with them as they travel to columbus next weekend for the ncaa midwest regional at ohio state’s french fieldhouse on saturday.. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 

SWIMMING & DIVING 

irish finish in seventh place at acc championship 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame placed seventh overall at the acc champi­onship in greensboro, north carolina, over the weekend, finishing with 678 points. 
irish head coach mike litzinger said he was proud of the way his team competed as a unit. 
“The guys did a tremendous job of competing and being a team,” litzinger said. “That certainly showed in their per­formances, both individually and in relays. i am very proud of what they accomplished as a group.” 
in the 400-yard freestyle re­lay, the irish team of sopho­more Justin plaschka, junior reed fujan and freshmen daniel speers and Tabahn afrik finished in second place with a finals time of 2:52.18. north carolina state won the event in 2:48.52. among the other notable finishes for the irish at the conference cham­pionships were sophomore rob whitacre, who finished in sixth place in the 200-yard backstroke. The irish had four swimmers finish in the top 14 in the 100-yard freestyle: plaschka finished in seventh place after posting a 43.39 fi­nals time, while speers fin­ished in 11th, and fujan and afrik ended up in a tie for 14th. Junior James lichtenstein fin­ished in 13th in the platform diving. 
The irish broke two school records during the meet. one was the final time of the 400­yard freestyle relay, and the other was whitacre’s final time of 1:42.17 in the 200-yard backstroke prelims. 
litzinger said he was pleased at how every one of his swim­mers was able to play a key role in his team’s finish. 
“every one of the 17 swim­mers and two divers we took scored points and contributed to the success,” litzinger said. “That is very hard to do in our league. now it’s on to the ncaa and a chance to show what some of our people can do on a national stage.” 
litzinger said notre dame’s 400-yard freestyle relay in par­ticular could have an impact on how teams view the irish in the future. 
“There were many, but see­ing our guys’ take second in the 400 free relay was special,” litzinger said. “i know that in­stance gave our team a label of being tough competitors, and to finish off the meet like that set a tone for the future that notre dame is ready to take on the challenge.” 
litzinger said there is still some room for improvement for his team leading up to the ncaa championship. 
“we will go back to work, and we have an opportunity to sharpen our skill, work more on race strategy and focus on speed,” litzinger said. 
The ncaa championship takes place march 24-26 at the georgia Tech campus recreation center in atlanta. litzinger said his team will be ready to face off against the best in college swimming. 
“The men’s ncaa is simply the fastest meet in the world,” litzinger said. “when i say that, i mean in terms of depth. it’s not for the faint of heart. our guys need to step up and make a statement that they are there to compete, and i believe we will.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 



W Lax 
conTinued from page 12 
her squad hasn’t worried where the scoring has come from, and she said the attack­ing balance makes her team hard to prepare for. 
“our point-getters — we’re not really focused on [where they’re coming from],” halfpenny said. “but i know that as a coach when i face an offense that has ‘x’ amount of goal scorers about ‘x’ amount of points, it’s a little more dif­ficult to come up with a game plan, so that’s exciting for us.” 
That was in full force sunday, when the irish jumped out to a 6-0 lead on california before fortunato scored her first of three goals. Though fortunato didn’t tally an early goal, halfpenny said the junior’s contribution goes far beyond what she does in front of the net. 
“cortney does so much off-ball when you back and reel the tape off,” halfpenny said. “in those first six goals where she didn’t have a goal … her ability to get the ball back cre­ated a number of those on top of the fact that she assisted the first one.” 
notre dame embarks saturday on what rankings say will be its toughest stretch of the season, as a trip to no. 11 louisville starts a four-game spring break slate for the irish. halfpenny said the cardinals, who have also started 5-0 overall and 1-0 in the league, are better than most acc out­siders consider them. 
“This team thrives off of great competition, so it makes us excited,” halfpenny said. “[it’s] definitely a big chal­lenge ahead in a very, very solid louisville team in my opinion that’s completely un­derrated by everybody outside of our conference.” 
and as the irish have raced out to a quick, dominant start, their continued climb in the poll puts a target squarely on their back for most opponents. 
“i think that we talk a lot about, ‘we get everybody’s best game,’” halfpenny said. “and our focus is on us and continuing to add some piec­es to each game because ev­ery game our opponents will have that opportunity to show a weakness of ours or maybe find an area of ours where we need to get a little bit better. so we’ve been able to go back to the drawing board, fix that, fine tune it, come back out.” 
The louisville contest starts a march slate that will see the irish play four top-11 oppo­nents in seven games: no. 6 princeton, no. 7 virginia and no. 2 syracuse all visit south bend in coming weeks. 
“we’ll enjoy the 5-0 february but the reality is, march is coming in, going to come in hot here with louisville, and we’re excited about that,” halfpenny said. 
after saturday’s trip to louisville, notre dame will travel to blacksburg, virginia, for games against virginia Tech and liberty on monday and Tuesday before returning to campus for the showdown with princeton on march 13. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish to host Miami with ACC seeding on the line 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
with their hopes of a dou­ble-bye in the acc tourna­ment up in the air, the irish return to purcell pavilion to take on no. 7 miami on wednesday night. 
after losses in two of its last three games, notre dame (19-9, 10-6) sits in a fifth-place tie in the acc standings, one game be­hind no. 4 virginia and no. 11 louisville. To earn a top-four seed, the irish need to win both of their remain­ing games. irish head coach mike brey said he’s confident in his team’s positioning for both the acc and ncaa tour­naments going into the final week of the regular season. 
“i love our position,” brey said. “i love what we can play for in [washington] d.c., and i certainly love our resume 
see m bball PAGE 10 

FENCING 

nd to compete in midwest regionals 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
coming off a pair of acc titles, notre dame gets set to take the strip for the upcom­ing ncaa midwest regional qualifier on saturday, march 12, at the french fieldhouse in columbus, ohio. 
The men’s and women’s teams swept all honors at the acc championships last weekend. irish head coach gia kvaratskhelia said he was proud of his teams’ perfor­mance but said their focus on regionals is unwavering. 
“as great as being acc champs in both men and wom­en is, it means nothing going forward,” kvaratskhelia said. “our opponents won’t think about it, so why should we? i’m confident in our kids and staff to prepare so that we will do well at regionals.” 
kvaratskhelia also said he is not concerned about how spring break will affect his fencers. 
“our kids are well-seasoned in terms of fencing competi­tion,” kvaratskhelia said. “They know what they need to do to prepare themselves. our 20­hour maximum time period does not apply over break, so we have complete freedom to work as long as we would like. That said, we’ll balance physical and mental work with recovery time to try and get everyone to their peak for regionals.” 
The irish will arguably face their toughest competition yet, including three top-10 teams. 
“we respect every single per­son and school we will face next weekend,” kvaratskhelia said. “we know them all very well. our strongest competition as a team will be ohio state on both the men’s and women’s sides, northwestern on the women’s side and wayne state, who has several excellent competitors. 
“we know them, they know 
see fencing PAGE 11 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

notre dame ready for top-10 matchup 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish kick off their spring break in sunny southern california this weekend, but they’ll still be working hard to keep their no. 1 ranking. 
The top-ranked irish (3­
0) travel to newport beach, california, to take on no. 8 maryland in the pacific coast shootout on saturday. The last time the two teams went head-to-head was in 2014: Then-ranked no. 9 irish topped the then no. 5 Terrapins (1-1), 6-5, in the acc semifinals on april 24, 2014, before going on to beat them again, 11-6, in the ncaa semifinals one month later. 
now that the Terrapins are part of the big Ten, maryland and notre dame haven’t met since. for the irish, this week has been all about prepping for their former acc rival. 
“we’ll watch close to an hour of film on maryland,” sophomore attack mikey wynne said. “we’ll go through the [scouting] report, run through their stuff and then practice. focus on what we’re going to do offensively against their defense and vice versa. 
“Then throughout the week, we’ll continue to watch film and gain knowl­edge on how they work, what sets the play and things like that.” 
The irish head to california after two con­secutive wins at home. They beat bellarmine, 11-6, on wednesday and then kept rolling with a 14-5 win over detroit on saturday. it was wynne and junior midfield­er sergio perkovic who led the irish, as wynne record­ed six goals against detroit, managing a hat trick before the end of the first period. perkovic came close to that total, tallying four goals. 
“we really honed in and ran our offense [against detroit],” wynne said. “The first two games we got away from running our offense, and whether it was someone dodging or someone taking 
see m laX PAGE 10 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Undefeated Irish kick off road trip at Louisville 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
if one could only use a single word to describe no. 4 notre dame’s offensive unit, “prolific” might be a good choice. among teams that have taken the field more than once this sea­son, the irish lead the coun­try with 16 goals per game and feature the country’s leading goal-scorer, junior attack cortney fortunato. 
and while fortunato’s 19 goals would typically solidify her as the key to focus on when playing against notre dame (5-0, 1-0 acc), she’s just one of four attacks on the team with 10 or more goals: senior rachel sexton has 13, while junior heidi annaheim and freshman nikki ortega each hit dou­ble digits sunday against california. 
as the goals have flowed in for notre dame this season, irish head coach christine halfpenny said 
see w laX PAGE 11 





