TO UNCOVER 
THE TRUTH 
AND REPORT 
IT ACCURATELY

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING 
NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY’S

VOLUME 50, ISSUE 75 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Club calls off trip to D.C. for March for Life

Impending inclement weather causes Right to Life to cancel travel and plan events on University campus

By KAYLA MULLEN
News Writer
Every year since the Supreme Court’s 1973 decision on the le­gality of abortion in Roe v. Wade, Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students have dem­onstrated in support of the pro-life movement on the decision’s anniversary, with many travel­ing to Washington D.C. for the annual March for Life. However, this year, due to an impending blizzard in the nation’s capital, the March team and University staff cancelled the trip, choos­ing instead to hold a march on campus, according to an email sent out by the Office of Campus Ministry on Thursday.
While the March is typically held in D.C. to make a statement to elected officials, a march held on campus will achieve a differ­ent set of goals, Patrick Koehr, sophomore and member of the March team, said.
“I think that it will start a lot of conversations on campus among our own student body and will have a much more direct effect on a large portion of our student body,” Koehr said.
A march, whether in D.C. or on campus, displays the vitality and passion of the pro-life move­ment, vice president of events for 


JANICE CHUNG | The Observer

see MARCH PAGE 4

Shakespeare at Notre Dame hosts conferences

Art gallery takes new name 

By ANDREA VALE
News Writer
The Shakespeare at Notre Dame program will host its sec­ond “Shakespeare In Prisons: In Practice” conference from Jan. 25 to Jan. 27.
The conference will bring together professionals in both the study and performance of Shakespeare, as well as social justice-directed performance programs, to explore the effect of Shakespeare and theatre in general towards social reform.
“We’re holding two big con­ferences,” Scott Jackson, execu­tive director of Shakespeare at Notre Dame, said. “The first is ‘Shakespeare In Prisons: In Practice,’ which is in effect the second Shakespeare in prisons conference. We held the first one here in November of 2013. [And] that rolls right into … the 26th annual Shakespeare Theatre Association Conference, which rotates venues every year.”
Jackson said the first “Shakespeare In Prisons: In Practice” conference came about as the result of the com­bined efforts of himself, the president of the Shakespeare Association of America, Mario DiGangi, Notre Dame film, television and theatre professor Peter Holland and the founder of the Shakespeare Behind Bars program, Curt Tofteland.
“A few years ago [we] got to­gether and said, ‘There’s never 


see CONFERENCE PAGE 4

JOY QIAN | The Observer
The newly renamed AAHD Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall displays student artwork 

Program fosters bonding

By CATHERINE OWERS
Associate News Editor
Since the rise of the Islamic State terrorist group, com­monly known as “ISIS,” many businesses and organizations with the same acronym have modified their names to avoid any negative connotations. Notre Dame’s department of art, art history and design de­partment recently followed suit, renaming the Isis Gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall as the AAHD Gallery.
Originally created by stu­dents, intended for exhibitions of student work and named after the mythological god­dess, the existence of the Isis Gallery dates back to the 1970s, Richard Gray, chair of the de­partment, said, when the art department was housed in the old fieldhouse.
“I came to the department in the 1980s, and it was already a gallery, an operating space. And it was started by students, probably in the old fieldhouse,” he said. “The department oc­cupied the old fieldhouse for about 10 years, prior to moving to Riley Hall. They never had a permanent home, and the old 

By MARTHA REILLY 
News Writer
After Notre Dame’s loyal sons have marched onward to victory, the odds are great Saint Mary’s Fifth Quarter and Overtime initiatives, which take place after home football and basketball games, will pro­mote community bonding. This semester’s first Overtime event, in which students can decorate coffee cup sleeves, will take place Saturday at 9 p.m. in Rice 


see GALLERY PAGE 3

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer

see OVERTIME PAGE 3






MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 12

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 12

SCENE PAGE 5

VIEWPOINT PAGE 7

NEWS PAGE 2

2

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

TODAY

QUESTION OF THE DAY:

Have a question you want answered?
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com



ndsmcobserver.com
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556
024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556
Editor-in-Chief
Greg Hadley
Managing Editor                  Business Manager
                    Jack Rooney	                      Cristina Gutierrez 
	
	Asst. Managing Editor:	Mary Green			Asst. Managing Editor:	Wei Lin
	News Editor:	Margaret Hynds
	Viewpoint Editor:	Tabitha Ricketts
	Sports Editor:	Zach Klonsinski
	Scene Editor:	Erin McAuliffe
	Saint Mary’s Editor:	Haleigh Ehmsen
	Photo Editor:	Zach Llorens
	Graphics Editor:	Erin Rice
	Multimedia Editor:	Wei Cao
	Online Editor:	Michael Yu
	Advertising Manager:	Mariah Villasenor
	Ad Design Manager:	Marisa Aguayo
	Controller:	Emily Reckmeyer
	
Office Manager & General Info
Ph: (574) 631-7471
Fax: (574) 631-6927
Advertising
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com
Editor-in-Chief
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu
Managing Editor
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu
Assistant Managing Editors
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu
wlin4@nd.edu
Business Office
(574) 631-5313
News Desk
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com
Viewpoint Desk
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com
Sports Desk
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com
Scene Desk
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com
Saint Mary’s Desk
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu
Photo Desk
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com
Systems & Web Administrators
(574) 631-8839
Policies
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content.
	The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer.
	Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information.
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley.
Post Office Information
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester.
The Observer is published at:
024 South Dining Hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices
POSTMASTER
Send address corrections to:
The Observer
P.O. Box 779
024 South Dining hall
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press.
All reproduction rights are reserved.

What cartoon character best describes you?



Rachel Chong
freshman
Farley Hall
“Mulan.”

Sean Dedrick
freshman
Sorin College
“Dug, the dog from ‘Up.’”



Matt Habrowski
junior
Alumni Hall
“Otto from ‘Rocket Power.’”

Ryan Krutz
freshman
Siegfried Hall
“Patrick from ‘Spongebob.’”



Ellie Berdusco
freshman
Farley Hall
“Spongebob.”

Brian Raab
freshman
Stanford Hall
“Jonny 2x4 from ‘Ed, Edd n Eddy.’”

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:

Want your event included here?
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com

Friday
Labor Café
Geddes Hall
5 p.m.-6 p.m.
Discussion related to work, inequality and social justice. 
Camille A. Brown & Dancers
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center
7 p.m.-8 p.m.
Storytelling and dance.Saturday 
Education and Research Forum
Jordan Hall of Science
8:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
Focus on technology use in education.
Men’s Basketball vs. Boston College
Purcell Pavilion
12 p.m.-2 p.m.
The Irish take on the Eagles.
Sunday
Women’s Basketball vs. Virginia Tech
Purcell Pavilion
1 p.m.-3 p.m.
The Irish take on the Hokies.
La Misa en Español
Dillon Hall
1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m.
All are welcome to this  mass celebrated in Spanish.
Monday
Sustainability Expo
LaFortune Student Center
7 p.m-8 p.m.
Environmental research opportunities. 
Passionist Volunteer Campus Visit
Geddes Hall
10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Information about the program in Jamaica. Tuesday
Blood Drive
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center
11 a.m.-6 p.m.
Eat a healthy meal before donating.
Workshop
Brownson Hall
4 p.m.-5 p.m.
Learn how to craft a compelling grant proposal.

Study abroad program expands

By JENNA WILSON
News Writer
Notre Dame strives to give stu­dents a global education, and over the past two years, the University has expanded its study abroad op­portunities, adding 10 new summer programs to its study abroad options for students, Rosemary Max, direc­tor of international programs at Notre Dame International, said.
“New this summer is Brazil, Berlin, Rome, Japan, two options in Jerusalem, Russia and South Africa, which used to be only open to ath­letes in the past, but is now open to all students,” Max said. “These lo­cations were chosen for a combina­tion of reasons. Sometimes faculty members have interest in a particu­lar area and approach us in doing a study abroad program. ... Also, another reason is that we often see a need or gap in some of the places our students are able to go, and we might think about a destination and approach a faculty member who may be interested in teaching there. So it’s a two-way street in new program development.”
This is the first time Notre Dame has hosted summer programs in Germany and Russia, Max said, to supplement the study abroad op­tions already available in the two countries during the semester.
Notre Dame has also added a new session to its existing Jerusalem summer program to allow students more flexibility, Max said.
“Both sessions are three-week programs, but now there are two of them,” Max said. “The programs are the same, but this allows students to go early in the summer and then start their summer late or kind of begin their summer and then attend this program. The first session is [from] May 17 to June 7 and the sec­ond session is [from] July 17 to Aug. 7.”
The Jerusalem program is part of Notre Dame’s Global Gateways net­work, which gives students the op­portunity to study in Notre Dame facilities while abroad, Max said.
“We have a building in London, Jerusalem, Dublin and Rome, where we have a physical presence on the ground, where we’ve been there for a while and have a nice program of academics and scholarship happen­ing,” said Max. “Programs that are non-gateway sights occur because we want to go to all these other amazing countries where we don’t happen to have a gateway, [as] we still want students to be able to expe­rience them. There is a whole range of other programs where we don’t have a [Notre Dame facility], but we have programs in these countries.”
Max said she encourages students to study abroad during the summer.
“We are very interested in summer becoming a key option for students in terms of study abroad. Students should consider the intensive ex­perience they can have in the short time they are overseas. Even in the short time, students can experience a close bond with the other students on the trip and the faculty mem­ber on the trip,” Max said. “It’s not something that students think about when first signing up for a program, but it’s really something they should think about because of the intense feel it has to it.”
Contact Jenna Wilson at
jwilso35@nd.edu

Today’s Staff

News
Catherine Owers
Nicole Caratas
Martha Reilly
Graphics
Janice Chung
Photo
Michael Yu
Sports
Zach Klonsinski
Hunter McDaniel
Scene
Matt McMahon
Viewpoint
Tabitha Ricketts

Corrections
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.

3

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | THE OBSERVER

NEWS

Commons.
Junior Morgan Dahnke said she helps to coordinate these events, which usually consist of a snack and activity, because she wants to ensure students have an alternative to partici­pating in the party scene.
“We want girls to realize that there is more to do than just go­ing out and partying,” Dahnke said. “Saint Mary’s has more to offer, and we want them to see that. We also want to provide a safe and inclusive place for girls to go to when they may not feel comfortable going elsewhere.”
Dahnke said last semester’s Fifth Quarter series appealed to a variety of students because it featured a range of six activi­ties, such as a glow party and a do-it-yourself spa night. This spring’s four Overtime events, which include a Mardi Gras party and a casino night, also aim to engage as many partici­pants as possible, she said.
“They really encourage stu­dents to come together and spend time in a safe and posi­tive environment,” Dahnke said. “Saint Mary’s is such a special place to be, and Fifth Quarter makes it even better.”
Dahnke said planning the Fifth Quarter and Overtime se­ries has taught her the impor­tance of helping all residents to feel comfortable while at Saint Mary’s.
“My hope is that students will not feel as pressured to give in to the alcohol culture on college campuses if they have something else to do,” Dahnke said. “Saint Mary’s is unique because it provides opportuni­ties for its students to grow as a community and feel safe while on campus, which is primarily what the goal of Fifth quarter is. Saint Mary’s truly cares.”
Senior Natalie Hartman, who collaborates with Dahnke to host these events, said students appreciate the op­portunity to interact with their peers during Fifth Quarter and Overtime.
“If they want something to do that’s inside their com­fort zone, this is it,” Hartman said. “It’s a great way to do something different with your friends or to just get to know people that you don’t know very well.”
Hartman said Saint Mary’s fosters an inclusive commu­nity, as evidenced by the Fifth Quarter and Overtime efforts.
“There are so many differ­ent kinds of girls here, which is awesome. It’s nice to provide a way for the community to get together,” she said.
Director of student involve­ment Brittany House said she works alongside Dahnke and Hartman to plan these events because she wants to promote community while involving students in these low-commit­ment, free activities.
“Anytime that students are connected to peers, they’re going to have a better college experience,” House said. “We want to have stuff for students to do, especially given what the weather looks like outside right now.”
Contact Martha Reilly at 
mreilly01@saintmarys.edu

Overtime
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

fieldhouse was kind of this ad hoc space they took over, and it has since become the [Clarke Memorial Fountain].”
After the demolition of the fieldhouse, the gallery moved to O’Shaughnessy Hall, where students and graduate stu­dents continue to install and take down work, which is a range of art media across all disciplines, including design work.
“We don’t have a particu­lar staff person that [is] doing that,” he said.
The AAHD gallery current­ly shows undergraduate and graduate student and profes­sional work, Gray said.
“The gallery is there for us to showcase professional work from the outside for the ben­efit of the student community. It’s there to feature our own student work, to students and faculty, to the Notre Dame community and to showcase what we do as artists and de­signers,” he said.
The AAHD gallery exhib­its professional work for two-thirds of the academic year and shows student work the rest of the time, Gray said. The work of a second-year graduate student is currently being in­stalled, and senior undergrad­uate work will be displayed at the end of the semester.
“Most of the shows during the semester are from art­ists beyond the department. We have a small lecture series here, where we invite people to come and speak, and one of the options is for them to have an exhibition in the gallery to go along with their talk.”
The location of the gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall is partial­ly practical, Gray said, because of a lack of space in Riley Hall.
“The more beneficial way to look at is that the gallery is a way for us to have outreach on the campus, to make what we do available to people beyond our building,” he said. “Having art in a public place creates a great conversation with just the public at large — in this case, with a lot of students — rather than locating galleries in art spaces, locating galler­ies in non-art spaces is benefi­cial, as a conversation starter, as outreach, in sharing our in­tellectual curiosity and intel­lectual production with other people.”
By displaying student work, the gallery “completes the cir­cle” for an artist or designer, not unlike publication com­pletes the circle for a writer, he said.
“This a way of you complet­ing that circle, from producer to consumer, and having that conversation at large with peo­ple beyond your own interest and constituencies,” he said. “Our students have the expe­rience of exhibiting work, of putting themselves out there in the public for commentary and feedback.”
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu

Gallery 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

PAID ADVERTISEMENT


4

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

NEWS


been a forum for prison arts and community arts practitioners to come together and talk about the populations they work in with and the work that’s be­ing performed,’” Jackson said, “We wanted to break that silo of isolation from practitioner to practitioner. … We raised some money, and we thought that we’d have 25 or 30 practitioners attend … from the United States, and I had to close registration at 66 because so many people re­sponded. We had people from every corner of the States, we had people attending from South Africa, Australia, Wales, Northern Ireland, England.”
The conference in 2013 at Notre Dame was an “incredible experience” for participants, Jackson said, as they shared ideas, resources and stories of individual experiences.
“At the end we created what’s called the Shakespeare in Prisons Network as a resource for advocates for this type of work, not only in prisons but also in communities that are marginalized or that are often overlooked by traditional arts and cultural organizations. And that’s become a pretty powerful voice in the movement,” he said. “The timing, as you can imag­ine, is pretty fortuitous with all the talk about criminal justice reform and everything else, and it’s pretty incredible for Notre Dame to be situated at the cen­ter of that conversation right now.”
The Shakespeare Behind Bars program, according to its website, offers “theatrical en­counters with personal and so­cial issues to incarcerated and post-incarcerated adults and juveniles, allowing them to de­velop life skills that will ensure their successful reintegration into society.” While national recidivism rates hover around 60 percent, the recidivism rates of inmates who experience the Shakespeare Behind Bars pro­gram are 5.1 percent, according to its website.
Jackson said Notre Dame’s collaboration with Shakespeare Behind Bars and hosting of the “Shakespeare In Prisons: In Practice” conference “[shows] what makes Notre Dame spe­cial in the world of Shakespeare performance and study. We’re unique from the standpoint that we really bridge this divide be­tween the study and academic pursuits of Shakespeare and the performance and practice of Shakespeare. What sets us even further apart from that is the fact that we are at Notre Dame, and we found a way to connect the broader social justice mis­sion of Notre Dame into our own program.
“All of that speaks to a larg­er commitment to looking at Shakespeare specifically, and the theatre arts more broadly, as a catalyst for positive social change,” Jackson said, “When you’re on stage with someone, all socio-economic, racial, cul­tural, any sort of societal divides banish between us, and it’s the great equalizer that way. And not only does it do that but it al­lows us to embody a character and relate and have compas­sion for that character’s indi­vidual existence, the struggles and problems and conflicts that they have in their own lives, and justify them to ourselves internally. So we come out of that with a more well-rounded, compassionate viewpoint on life itself.”
This year’s conference is part of a larger initiative celebrat­ing the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death and his subsequent legacy, Jackson said. “He died in 1616 and this year … will be the world’s largest Shakespeare celebration in his­tory. And Notre Dame is play­ing a major international role in kicking off these celebrations.”
According to Jackson and the Shakespeare at Notre Dame website, the “Shakespeare in Prison: In Practice” conference will be comprised of morning panel sessions followed by after­noon performance workshops.
“At the first prisons confer­ence (there were) so many people in the room that we just ended up having panel discus­sions,” Jackson said, “I made a promise to those delegates that the second prisons confer­ence would be more practically based in terms of approaches to the incarcerated and non-tra­ditional populations, so that’s why the name of this confer­ence is ‘Shakespeare in Prisons: In Practice.’”
Attendees will take part in one of four tracks as part of af­ternoon workshops. The first, “Including the Excluded,” will be taught by Tom Magill, from the Educational Shakespeare Company in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and will explore work­ing with the mentally ill. A sec­ond, “A Taste of the Work of the Actor’s Gang Prison Project,” will be taught by Sabra Williams and Donna Jo Thorndale, mem­bers of the California-based theatre group The Actors’ Gang, and will center around working with the incarcerated. A third, “Story Into Song,” will be taught by Ozivell Ecford and Meade Palidofsky from Chicago’s Storycatchers Theatre, and will focus on working with incar­cerated juveniles. Finally, the fourth track, “The Bard and the Brain,” will be taught by Nancy and Bill Watson, from the Milwaukee-based program Feast of Crispian, and will cen­ter on working with veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.
“I’m really excited about both the potential of these programs around the world strengthening Notre Dame’s place as an advo­cate for these works and as an active partner in engaging the social justice mission of Notre Dame to the performing arts,” Jackson said.
Contact Andrea Vale at 
avale@nd.edu

Conference
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

Photo courtesy of Dennis Brown
Students, faculty and University President Fr. John Jenkins travel to Washington for the annual March for Life. Pro-life demonstrators gather to protest the Supreme Court’s 1973 decision to legalize abortion.

the club and junior Emily Burns said.
“It can be very disheartening at times to be fighting for this cause and feel as though we are accomplishing nothing — at­tending the March however, re­minds us all how many people are working together for this cause,” Burns said.“ … The atti­tude of the March is both joyful and serious, as we all join togeth­er in recognizing the gift that is life as well as the reality of what we are fighting for.”
The march on campus will be­gin with a Mass for Life at 11:30 a.m. in the Basilica, president of the Right to Life Club Janelle Wanzek said. After the conclu­sion of the Mass, the Right to Life leadership will pass out hats and signs and begin the march around 1 p.m., Wanzek said.
“The route will include a stop in front of Touchdown Jesus for a huge group picture and a stop in front of the Dome for a brief reflection and prayer,” Wanzek said. “The event will conclude with a procession to the Grotto where you can offer your own prayers and leave a candle.”
To some, the March may seem futile, but this past year has been very successful for the pro-life movement, Burns said.
“This past year, hundreds of pro-life legislation pieces were proposed,” she said. “A bill sig­nificantly reducing government funding of Planned Parenthood was passed in both the House and the Senate, only to be ve­toed by President Obama. ... It is very clear that our government is taking more and more notice of the pro-life movement, which is reflected in the kind of bills and legislation that have been pro­posed in the past year.”
The March is the Right to Life Club’s largest event of the year, but the club is very active in other work, focusing on service, educa­tion and spirituality, Burns said.
“Our service opportunities fo­cus on groups of people that we feel that do not receive the dig­nity that they deserve,” she said. “The mission of our club is to en­courage the dignity of all people, so that is why we reach out to a lot of organizations that help the mentally handicapped, special needs, the elderly, women in cri­sis pregnancies — a lot of groups of people that do not necessarily get treated with the dignity that they deserve.”
The club hosts seminars and sponsors a mentorship program between faculty and pro-life stu­dents in which the two groups discuss current issues in the pro-life movement, Burns said.
“We just added apologetics this past semester in order to teach our members how to better artic­ulate, better present our views,” Burns said. “That’s an important side of our work — anyone who claims to be pro-life, we need to empower them to be able to talk about issues with people who do not necessarily agree with us.”
A common misperception about the pro-life movement is that the group only cares about the loss of a child, Burns said.
“The theme of the March for Life this year is actually the idea that pro-life and pro-woman go hand in hand,” she said. “ … Our theme for our Respect Life week this past year was ‘Love them both.’ We put roses on South Quad, one red rose, one white rose, intertwined — one represents the loss of a child, and one represents the pain of the mother.”
According to Burns, the pro-life movement emphasizes the human dignity of all people, no matter their circumstances or stage in life. The movement fights for this dignity to be recog­nized, Burns said.
“I believe that there are some major changes that need to take place in our nation if we truly aspire to our founding principle that all men are created equal,” Burns said. “I attend the March because I want to join in solidar­ity with all those fighting against what I view as the greatest injus­tice of our time, and I want to do all that I can to stand up for what I believe in.”
Contact Kayla Mullen at 
kmullen2@nd.edu

March
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1

“It can be very disheartening at times to be fighting for this cause and feel as though we are accomplishing nothing – attending the March however, reminds us all how many people are working together for this cause.”
Emily Burns
vice president of events 
Right to Life Club


Please recycle
The Observer.



5

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM


By KELLY McGARRY
Scene Writer
In my quest to find the best taco in South Bend, I was driven downtown to an inviting Mexican restaurant and gro­cery now known as Flamingo’s. After testing out almost every variation offered by the taqueria, I think I’m ready to retire and settle down.
Formerly called El Paraiso, Flamingo’s offers classic, authentic Mexican cuisine in a simple, no-nonsense diner. It’s also attached to a store where you can get all kinds of groceries — most importantly, freshly baked pan dulce to take home.
El Paraiso was featured by the depart­ment back in 2012 in an article titled “El Paraiso Disappoints,” which focused on the taqueria’s legendary dollar tacos. Since my first experience a few weeks ago, I’ve returned to the taqueria twice and “disappointing” has not once de­scribed my experience.
As far as the crowd and long wait, Flamingo’s doesn’t seem to disappoint at all anymore, possibly owing that de­scription to a bad Observer review sev­eral years ago. Previous reviewer Ankur Chawla had some qualms about paying for a side of light, crispy chips and flavor­ful salsa, but rest assured it only costs $1 extra, and only on dollar taco days. And who can complain when an entire meal costs $4?
I consider myself a taco connoisseur with experience at countless taquerias on the south side of Chicago. My first time at Flamingo’s, I wanted to try every meat (except the Mexican staple lengua, or boiled beef tongue — I’m not that adven­turous) so I ordered chicken, carne asada and al pastor. Each meat was prepared perfectly tender and juicy in hearty por­tions. Carne asada has been my longtime favorite, but after eating at Flamingo’s, I can officially say that al pastor has sur­passed my fondness of carne asada. The menu parenthesizes al pastor as “pork,” but it’s so much more, and nothing like the carnitas type of pork. Al pastor is ba­sically a Mexican gyro, cooked on a spit and shaved off in strips of crunchy exte­rior, tender interior deliciousness. Since my visit to Flamingo’s, I’ve been ordering al pastor on all my tacos from any restau­rant I visit, but the al pastor at Flamingo’s hasn›t been beaten.
I was a little surprised that the staff asked whether I wanted tacos on corn or flour tortillas. Tacos come on corn torti­llas. Always. Next they asked what “style” I wanted it in. As you’ll learn at any au­thentic taqueria, the best tacos come with cilantro and onion. They do have a “Paraiso” style taco served with avocado, sour cream and cheese that sounds just as worth trying, given Flamingo’s track record. The tacos are also served with lime. Use it.
Another integral condiment, hot sauce can make or break a good taco. If bottles of name-brand labeled sauce bottles are being offered with your taco, turn and run. This won’t happen at Flamingo’s, where flavorful, spicy, house-made sauces complement the delicious meats perfectly.
So far, I’ve focused on the tacos, but Flamingo’s also offers a full menu of au­thentic and reasonably-priced Mexican dishes. Most of the dishes are offered with a variety of meats. This is the place in South Bend to find specialty meats like lengua and barbacoa.
Much nicer than the dive taquerias I’m used to in Chicago, but more authentic than your typical restaurant, the atmo­sphere is perfect for a casual meal. Tables and chairs are carved with pictures of animals and painted bright vibrant col­ors, reminiscent of a Mexican resort.
The differing experience that I had compared to my colleague back in 2012 could be due to the change in ownership. I hadn’t been there under the previous owners, so I can’t comment. However, what I will say is that it’s time to give dol­lar tacos another chance. A Wednesday or Sunday outing to Flamingo’s is sure to become a weekly tradition.
Contact Kelly McGarry at                       kmcgarry@nd.edu




JANICE CHUNG | The Observer

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer

JANICE CHUNG | The Observer

6

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Defining your own ‘gui ju’

INSIDE COLUMN

Join the movement

Gui ju:
Verb: To regulate, to limit, to straighten, to shape.
Noun: Rule, good manner, limit, shape, self-control.
One day when I was four years old, my kinder­garten teacher walked into the classroom and an­nounced: “Today we will learn how to sit.” She then introduced to us the concept of gui ju, the ability to limit oneself.
“Nobody will respect you unless you learn gui ju. First lesson, sit as you are sitting. Dan!” She pointed at me. “You look like you are sleeping, not sitting! Put your legs down on the ground! Fold your hands and rest them on the table! Press your back to the chair and sit up straight!” I followed her commands. Just like that, I learned my first gui ju that day, with­out much appreciation for the concept. Why can’t I rest my head comfortably on my elbow? Why can’t I scratch my face as I wish? Why must I be limited by this stupid gui ju? As I was mumbling my complaints, my teacher shouted at me again. “Raise your hand before you say anything on class!”
After my first encounter with the concept, I pains­takingly acquired many other gui ju from my par­ents, my friends and my teachers in school. Aside from how to sit properly, I also learned and practiced how to stand properly, how to eat properly, how to talk properly, how to walk properly and even, believe it or not, how to sleep properly. I still remember my dad asking me to never praise myself in front of oth­ers, my elementary school teacher coaching me to accept things from people with both hands, especial­ly from those that are older than me, and my mom teaching me to never pick up my chopsticks and eat before the elders in the family do.
Sometimes I would question why there must be so many limits in my life. The answer was always the same: Because China is “the land of propriety and etiquettes” and every Chinese person needs to learn how to act properly. “Gui ju is a virtue,” they said. “Learn it and practice it until it becomes part of you.” Despite my love for my culture, I sometimes secretly wished I would go to a place where no gui ju is needed, a place where I would never be limited or at least where I could sit as I wanted to.
I got part of that wish by coming to America. During freshman orientation at Notre Dame, I was surprised by how unconstrained my American friends were. They crossed their legs on the sofa cushion and scratched their face whenever they felt like it, and they did those highly “improper” things while the rector was speaking! During the first week of school, the cultural shock got more and more dif­ficult to handle. My classmates never saw the need to take their exam papers back with both hands, even when the papers came from the professors. They sometimes even interrupted the professors in class and found it funny that I raised my hand in a per­fectly vertical angle every time before I spoke.
At the same time, my friends marveled at my abil­ity to sit still for hours, even when the conversation was clearly not engaging. They asked me from time to time why I always tried to look “so formal.” The fact is, I was not really trying. It was already part of my nature to gui ju myself at all times. It had already become my habit to sit, eat, stand, walk and talk “properly” and to limit my behaviors constantly.
One instance changed my understanding of gui ju permanently. On a study night in LaFortune, I over­heard the conversation of two people behind me. It did not take me long to figure out they were talking about China, and many of their comments were not only racist, but also far from accurate. I was furi­ous and wanted to walk straight up to them and say something equally rude and offensive.
However, as I stood up, weirdly enough, the gui ju on talking which I learned years ago echoed in my head: “Do not say anything if you cannot say it properly (fei li wu yan).” A strange power deep in my heart forced me to sit down, reflect on my anger and try to find a proper way to express it. It was at that moment I realized gui ju had become so much more than the simple rules I received. It helped me constrain my anger and return it not with violence or fierceness but with reason and respect, which every­one deserves, no matter how they have behaved. That moment I felt proud, dignified and weirdly free. I was no longer a slave to my own irrational impulses. I had finally become used to a life limited by gui ju and found a newly defined freedom within it.
Last semester, I had a conversation with Leon Krier, the founding father of New Urbanism, a school of architectural thought. I asked Leon what his ob­jective was as an architect, and he answered without hesitation: “To define limits.” That single phrase was the heart of gui ju. Freedom is not the absence of limit but the full acceptance of it. Some of the gui ju I learned in elementary school still govern my every­day manners, both in China and America. They give me the ability to regulate myself, to present myself with dignity and propriety, to fully appreciate the value of limits and to find freedom within the inevi­table boundaries. Confucius once defined the ulti­mate freedom as “following what my heart desired, but with perfect propriety and without transgress­ing the boundaries.” I hope everyone can set off on a journey to define his or her own gui ju in this new semester.
Dan (April) Feng is a junior double-majoring in 
political science and economics. April was born and raised in Beijing and is currently studying “abroad” in Washington D.C., taking classes and interning with CBS News. April 
welcomes all comments and complaints at dfeng@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

April Feng
Story Time

Jack Riedy
Scene Writer

To Br. Bill Mewes,
I’m glad to hear you agree that black lives matter. That such a statement could be controversial is one of the more depressing realities of today. Despite your agreement, you take is­sue with the efforts of the movement, particularly the focus on police bru­tality. Unfortunately, the equivalen­cies you drew are false and, frankly, patronizing.
For example, your claim that protes­tors did not seem to worry about black-on-black killings is an insult to the social workers, activists, teachers and others working daily to stop violence and murder. And while there may be more black people killed by black peo­ple than by police, that misrepresents the problem. Simply put, people tend to murder their neighbors, and people tend to live amongst those of the same race. Yet no news anchor would sum­mon a prominent white politician and demand to know what they are doing about the violence in their community.
Furthermore, murder is a heinous crime, and perpetrators are typically prosecuted to the full extent of the law. The growing #BlackLivesMatter movement is protesting officers of the law abusing their power to commit the same heinous acts they are meant to prevent. And not only are police of­ficers frequently committing crimes against black people, but oftentimes they get away with it. We should ex­pect and demand more from our police and our legal system.
While you may disagree with abor­tion, as many do, you must recognize that black women who have them are acting of their own volition. No po­litical institution or governing body is forcing the procedure upon them. Again, you conflated an individual act with the widespread failure of a sys­tem that should be better.
Opal Tometi, co-founder of the Black Lives Matter movement, gave a power­ful call to action in her speech here this week. “My basic advice is to do the work,” she said. “We need everybody on deck for this time in our history.” Black activists and others are working tirelessly to bring about long overdue change and to affirm that black lives matter. Some of the most inspiring people I have ever met are on this campus right now, working for change. As members of the Notre Dame com­munity, as Americans and as human beings, we all have work to do. I hope that next time you criticize the move­ment, you do it from the inside look­ing out, not from the outside looking down.

Have an opinion? 
Tweet your Viewpoint in 140 characters or less!
Reply to @ObserverViewpnt and share your thoughts 
to be featured as our Tweet of The Day

Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu
	The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

7

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

Accessibility over appeasement

Indiana House Bill 1022 (HB 1022) is steadily making its way through the legislative production line.
One Democrat and two Republican representatives co-sponsored the bill. It has been read twice on the House floor, referred to committee and passed with unanimous support. Sometime in the near future, representatives will vote on it and, if it passes, it will move on to the Senate.
If enacted, HB 1022 would require private university po­lice departments to make all arrest or incarceration records accessible to the public.
Previously, under Indiana’s Access to Public Records Act (APRA), agencies such as Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) did not have to disclose records of any sort, despite being “fully authorized as a police agency by the State of Indiana,” according to NDSP’s website.
That tension between private records and public author­ity lies at the heart of an ongoing lawsuit ESPN filed against Notre Dame last year.
The sports media outlet sought police reports for several incidents involving student-athletes, but St. Joseph County Superior Court Judge Steven Hostetler ruled in Notre Dame’s favor in April, denying ESPN access to the records. However, he wrote in his opinion, “there are indeed persua­sive reasons why the statute should be amended to read the way ESPN desires.”
Around the time, State Rep. Patrick Bauer (D-South Bend) said he would work to change the law so private uni­versity police forces would be subject to the same oversight given to public agencies, leading to his co-authorship of HB 1022.
There’s just one problem: The bill does not go all the way in fulfilling Bauer’s initial objective.
Several news organizations, including the South Bend Tribune and the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette, have written editorials recently detailing how the bill applies only to spe­cific cases of criminal arrest, which rarely happen on col­lege campuses. Other public police forces disclose blotters that “[include] the specific location of any crime, names and the general description of the alleged crime,” according to the Tribune.
We now add our voice in criticizing the bill as it is cur­rently written. While some change is better than none at all, we cannot settle for half measures.
There is no reason NDSP, or any other private university police force, should be held less accountable than a public one. While NDSP may fall under University purview, the department has the same police authority accorded to the South Bend City Police, the Saint Joseph County Police and every other public police force in Indiana.
We understand some people are reluctant to make records accessible. Some argue such disclosure would be embarrassing and unnecessary, as old police reports, especially those concerning crimes that turn out to be unfounded, can haunt alumni years down the road, both professionally and personally.
But those who argue this point ignore two ideas that are essential for any free and functioning society.
The first is the idea that the public’s right to safety trumps personal privacy.
Certainly, no one on this Board would deny anyone’s right to privacy, and federal regulations prohibit Notre Dame from disclosing any student’s educational records without his or her consent. But when a crime is committed or an incident reported, a person’s right to privacy should never supersede the public’s right to educate themselves on the issues of crime and safety.
As the Fort Wayne Journal-Gazette editorial board pointed out, because NDSP does not release records, Notre Dame students are provided “more privacy than the aver­age citizen, or, for that matter, more than students at other universities.”
The most obvious example is just across the street from Notre Dame. Saint Mary’s falls under the jurisdiction of Saint Joseph County Police, not NDSP. Saint Mary’s stu­dents are not exempt from public access laws, and yet no one complains that public records laws violate their privacy or that federal regulations are being ignored.
The second idea is that accountability and transparency prevent those with power from abusing it.
As students, we are grateful to Notre Dame and NDSP for all they do. We have a relatively safe campus, guarded by officers who have our best interests at heart.
But we cannot let this appreciation stand in for genuine oversight and accountability. At a time when the nation is engaged in contentious debates over police brutality and accountability, it is vital to recognize that more disclosure is the key to building trust between the community and the people who protect it.
This is evident in the case of University of Cincinnati police officer Raymond Tensing, who fatally shot Samuel DuBose in the head after stopping him for driving without a front license plate on July 19. Tensing’s body camera cap­tured video of the incident and released to the public.
The University of Cincinnati is part of Ohio’s state uni­versity system and, as such, has its own force of sworn and armed police officers — not unlike NDSP. Hamilton County prosecuting attorney Joseph T. Deters responded to the event by requesting the University police force be disbanded and the campus patrolled by Cincinnati Police Department. The University of Cincinnati case illustrates the downfall of a campus police system via one unchecked accountability issue.
Last year’s editorial board wrote that Notre Dame and NDSP should disclose police records not necessarily be­cause the law prompted it, but as a moral obligation.
This year’s board agrees, but as the past 12 months have shown, Notre Dame’s administration will use legal means to continue to restrict the public’s access to records. So if NDSP will abide only by the law, and not by ethical consid­erations, the law must change.
However, the law must be changed fully, with no reserva­tions or attempts to slow or limit the process. Unfortunately, that seems to be exactly what happened to HB 1022.
Bauer is a Notre Dame alumnus and currently serves on the board of directors for the Independent Colleges of Indiana, which includes Notre Dame. In an interview with The Observer last week, he said that while crafting the leg­islation, he met with Notre Dame several times and spoke with the chair of the Independent Colleges of Indiana.
A University spokesperson confirmed these meetings and said Notre Dame “offered its support, perspective and assistance” to the process.
So let’s just get this straight: A university being sued over an alleged violation of state law had a hand in writing a new bill that would directly amend that state law.
What could possibly go wrong?

EDITORIAL

A paradigm of love

There seems to me to be a great struggle within the Catholic Church over how to integrate members of our community who are gay or lesbian. Too often, a cursory examination of the Church’s theology appears to offer no hope for love, acceptance, aspiration or peace to the ho­mosexual person. Yet it is inconceivable that the salvation of Jesus would exclude any person simply because of the nature God Himself gave that person. When I consider the challenges which gay Catholics currently have to overcome in order to find our places within the Church, I can’t help but feel a human disconnect must be present in the world.
It’s surprising how often we hear people arguing over the morality of this or that specific action without ever acknowledging the underlying dignity of the human person. This demeanor is distressingly common today. I would like for us to change that. People of faith must commit to viewing their gay brothers and lesbian sisters through a lens that sees them first as children of God, the same as any other person. I would add further that we LGBT Catholics should take exactly the same approach when meeting those more traditional, less experienced Catholics who struggle to give us space within the Church community.
There is an inexplicable revulsion felt from certain Catholics towards “being gay.” I do not understand it. I have never understood it. I’m not talking about those who merely argue that homosexual sex is an immoral act, though the people to whom I refer do that too. I mean the people who are offended by the very essence of a gay person. They recoil from the fact that a man who feels sexual attraction for a man even dares to be. His actions are almost beside the point. For those who do not think this way, I doubt I can explain it to you. It is only by being on my side of the issue that I know such people exist. They have forced their reality upon us in a way we would never have chosen to imagine by ourselves.
This mindset is not in keeping with Christ’s treatment of sinners. It is not the mindset Jesus adopted towards the adulteress in John 8, a woman who committed a grave sin by violating the sacrament of marriage. Jesus did not recoil and proclaim, “You are an adulteress, you are foul to be able to do such a thing, and therefore your existence offends me.” Jesus simply said “Go, and sin no more.” Jesus does not refrain from criticizing sin, but his instruc­tion is cached in a paradigm that loves the inherent dig­nity of the woman. She deserves to be saved. Christians should want everyone to be inside the community.
Nothing innate in anyone’s being can ever put him or her outside our hope for that person’s participation in the Body of Christ. It is not correct to condemn gay and les­bian persons because of their nature. It is a great tragedy to do so, a misunderstanding of what the Church is. The Church is for every single person. No one is excluded by his or her nature. If we must argue over which actions are sinful, let it be from a place that first recognizes the dig­nity of each person as a child of God.
This paradigm of love should run both ways. Within the gay community, there is a saddening action-reaction taking place which furthers the divide. It is a response that makes it even more difficult for us to be faithful members of the Church. When gay people experience rejection of part of our essence, it is tempting to despair. It is easy to criticize the sin of the hateful person and allow his flaw to embitter our own hearts. Many people make the very human yet still mistaken choice to turn away from the Church because of such encounters. I have great sympathy for my brothers and sisters in this position.
And I would ask them, humbly, to please come back.
When a gay Catholic gives up on a religious ideologue, the person who rejects him from his essence, doesn’t he commit the same error? I profess myself to be a member of the Catholic Church. Do I want to reach Heaven? Yes. Should I want the ideologue who has done nothing but hurt me to reach Heaven as well? Absolutely. Does this re­quire that I be able to relate to that person? No, it does not.
We must desire to be united to all our brothers and sis­ters, even those who hurt us. We are not divided because anyone’s essence has separated one from another. It is not even sufficient, in my opinion, to say we love a person and hate his sins. Hate must be left out entirely. Hate is not given to human beings. It is a failing of gay Catholics to push away the Church when some of its members create seemingly insurmountable barriers to our membership in the community. And it is a failing of the wider Church to reject anyone based on his or her essence. A paradigm of love would acknowledge the human community is one family, united to each other and in Christ. The Church must be understood as the home in which everyone be­longs with no exceptions.
Michael Rangel is a senior in the College of Arts & Letters. He can be reached at mrangel3@nd.edu
The views expressed in this column are those of the 
author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

Michael Rangel
Guest Column

8

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

DAILY

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ


Happy Birthday: Do your best to ensure that your health and wealth are your top priority. Focus on fitness, nutrition and your relationships with the people you choose to hang out with. Any poor influences you meet along the way should be rejected. The way your year unfolds will be directly linked to the choices you make. Strive for perfection. Your numbers are 8, 13, 16, 22, 29, 37, 45.
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Use your energy to show your love and affection for someone special. Try not to let jealousy well up and cause discord. The choice is yours: You can be fun to be with, or you can make a fuss. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Offer your knowledge, assistance and expertise, and you will get something special and unexpected in return. An idea you have will be the perfect solution for a problem you are facing. Share your feelings. 




GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Seek out information that will help you make a better financial or medical choice. Don’t limit what you can do by making unrealistic promises. Live within your means and stick to a healthy fitness regimen. 



CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stick to the plans you make instead of following someone else. It’s important to earn respect by showing what you can do on your own. You’ll form better relationships if you strive for equality. Set high standards. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A short trip will result in your learning something new or improving the way you do things. Don’t let someone’s disgruntled attitude ruin your day or interfere with your goals. Keep your plans a secret. 



VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Explore an idea you have and it will lead to an interesting partnership or opportunity to reunite with someone you have worked with in the past. A domestic matter can be resolved if you take action. 




LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): If you feel the need to make a couple of changes, work on your shortcomings instead of complaining about someone else’s. It’s best to avoid debates with anyone who will upset you emotionally. Work on your own to achieve the most. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do what you can to help others. Your practical solutions and your ability to see things from a unique perspective will lead to greater popularity. Don’t just make a donation; make your presence count. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful when dealing with unfamiliar people or visiting places you have never been before. Emotional problems will flare up if you don’t offer specific details or documentation. Focus on your home and your family.   



CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your driving force will take everyone by storm. Don’t let the unexpected or unwanted changes that take place stop you in your tracks. Follow the path that leads to where you want to go. Detours will disappoint you. 



AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don’t jump to conclusions. Take your time to listen to what’s being said, and you will turn a negative into a positive. Romance is on the rise and will help improve your attitude. Be affectionate, not combative. 





PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on what you can do for others. The end results will help you get what you want in return. Let creative energy lead the way and you will impress onlookers and create new opportunities to present your ideas and concerns. 





Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and imaginative. You are kind and generous.


JUMBLE | DAVID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK

SUDOKU | THE MEPHAM GROUP

JUST ADD WATER | JOHN RODDY & ERIC CARLSON



FLING BY SPRING | RILEY MCCURRIE


WORK AREA

Make checks payable to and mail to:	The Observer
	P.O. Box 779
	Notre Dame, IN 46556

  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year

  Enclosed is $75 for one semester

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community.
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.

Name
Address 
City  						State  		Zip

9

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

SPORTS AUTHORITY

SMC BASKETBALL | ALBION 62, SMC 54

Parity is a beautiful thing

Belles fall to Albion, extend losing streak to eight games

The NCAA men’s basketball tournament won’t have an undefeated team gunning for the title this year. We’ve known that for a little bit, ever since South Carolina picked up its first loss of the season in blow­out fashion to Alabama.
But aside from those now-one-loss Gamecocks and the undefeated but tournament-ineligible SMU, everyone in college basketball has dropped at least two games this season — a stark contrast from the domination shown last year by Kentucky or the pursuit of perfection the year before by Wichita State.
That stat alone underscores a common theme that’s de­veloping this year in college basketball: No team will enter the tournament field as a heavy favorite, and on any night, there’s a solid chance the team at the top will taste defeat.
For a while, it looked as if Michigan State was set for a significant reign at the top, but senior guard Denzel Valentine’s injury has sent the Spartans reeling to three straight defeats, the latest at home to a Nebraska team they really should beat by double figures, even without Valentine. What once looked like the prohibitive favorite heading into the NCAA tourna­ment has become a team com­pletely out of sync.
After the Spartans vacated the top spot, it was Kansas who seemed to be the potential fa­vorite, with its triple-overtime classic win at home against Oklahoma on Jan. 4 seemingly solidifying the Jayhawks’ time at the top.
That didn’t last too long, however, as a visit to Morgantown, West Virginia, proved too difficult for Kansas, putting Buddy Hield and Oklahoma at the top of the polls.
For a week at least. Iowa State’s win over the Sooners means we’ll have yet another No. 1 squad when the AP poll comes out Monday — likely North Carolina.
The point? There’s probably 15 or 20 teams that could re­alistically cut down the nets in Houston when the season ends, and that’s drastically dif­ferent than the scene we saw a year ago when you could count on one hand the number of squads capable of taking down unbeaten Kentucky in the tournament.
Just look around the top 25 and consider the wholly-realistic possibility that No. 20 Duke might drop out of the polls this week. Regardless of the Blue Devils’ three-game losing streak, they’re still an immensely talented team. The same goes for No. 23 Kentucky, who has yet to click this year.
When those two programs — the ones more reliant on “one-and-done” players than any others — can’t get their squads to gel, the landscape is going to be open.
Could the Big East, one of what should be considered six power conferences in basket­ball, produce a winner this year? Probably. No. 4 Villanova and No. 5 Xavier both have flaws, but they’re also teams that could feasibly win the title this year. Throw in No. 16 Providence and its star Kris Dunn, and you’ve got three schools that could get there one way or another from a con­ference not thought of enough as “major.”
Or how about No. 9 Iowa, the program that started the year as a bit of an afterthought but boasts two wins over Michigan State and another over Purdue?
No. 10 Texas A&M is far from a traditional power, as is No. 15 Miami (Florida). Yet both, with the right mix of luck and talent, could find themselves stand­ing there in Houston as the confetti rains down as NCAA champions.
It’s a fun world to live in, where instead of fawning over professional sleazeball John Calipari’s “greatest team ever” Kentucky squad, we can fawn over the competitiveness of a college season that’s shown increased scoring and excite­ment nationwide.
Buckle up. The next couple months are gonna be fun.

Contact Alex Carson at 
acarson1@nd.edu
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.

By DOMINIC IANNELLI
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s came up short against Albion on Wednesday night at home, falling 62-54 and pushing its current losing streak to eight games.
The Belles (1-16, 1-7 MIAA) started the game strong, go­ing on a 7-0 run and ulti­mately finishing the quarter only trailing by one, 16-15.
The second quarter was a similarly tight battle, with seven ties over the course of the period, and the teams entered the break tied at 30.
The Belles struggled of­fensively in the third quar­ter, leading to a 14-0 run by Albion (6-10, 3-5) that broke the game open and put the Britons in front, 51-36.
Saint Mary’s did not go away quietly, however, and began the fourth quar­ter on a 12-0 charge, scor­ing on six of its first seven possessions.
Eventually though, foul trouble began to plague the Belles, and the Britons did not miss many from the line. On the night, Albion went 16-for-22 from the charity stripe, while the Belles only had four shots from the free throw line, all of which they made.
In the end, it was the rough third quarter that ended up being the differ­ence for Saint Mary’s, se­nior forward and captain Krista Knapke said.
“I think ... we fought hard the whole game but strug­gled in the third quarter,” Knapke said. “We gave up some offensive boards and got a few foul calls that hurt our momentum.”
Sophomore forward Gabby Diamond (12 points) and senior forward and team captain Eleni Shea (10) both put up double-digit points for the Belles, and Knapke set up several buckets with six assists on the night.
The Belles play two more home games over the next week, facing off against Olivet on Saturday and Calvin on Wednesday.
“Going into the game against Olivet this weekend we will work hard to control the boards the whole game and put all four quarters to­gether to get a win,” Knapke said.
The Belles play Olivet at 3 p.m. on Saturday at Angela Athletic Facility.
Contact Dominic Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu

Alex Carson
Associate Sports Editor

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | IOWA 90, RUTGERS 76

Jok leads Hawkeyes to victory over Rutgers

Associated Press

PISCATAWAY, N.J.  — Peter Jok scored a career-high 29 points and No. 9 Iowa shook off pesky Rutgers in the sec­ond half in posting a harder-than-expected 90-76 victory on Thursday night.
Jarrod Uthoff and Anthony Clemmons added 20 points apiece as the Hawkeyes (15-3, 6-0) won their eighth straight game and their 12th in a row in the Big Ten Conference, dating to last season.
Iowa used a zone defense late in the first half in a 16-7 run that gave it a 45-37 lead, and it opened the game up in the second half with its long-range shooting.
Mike Williams had 17 points to lead Rutgers (6-14, 0-7), which was coming off a 50-point loss to No. 22 Purdue on Monday, its worst home loss.
Jonathan Laurent, who was returning after missing four games with a concus­sion, added 14 points and Corey Sanders had 12 for the Scarlet Knights, who have lost their last 22 conference games, including tourna­ment play.
Jok, who is the confer­ence’s reigning player of the week, hit 10 of 19 from the field, and matched his season-high with five 3-pointers. He scored 10 of the Hawkeyes first 13 points and his last basket cut short Rutgers final rally.
His previous high was 24 points against Florida State earlier this season.
The Scarlet Knights put up a much better fight than against Purdue on Monday as they rallied from an 11-point first-half deficit and took a 30-29 lead on a basket by Williams with 4:26 to play.
Iowa soon switched to a zone and it opened a 45-37 lead as Clemmons scored six points and Jok and Uthoff added five in the 16-7 run.
The Hawkeyes were nev­er threatened in the sec­ond half as Uthoff hit three 3-pointers in helping build a 19-point lead with 7:23 to play.

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.

FOR RENT
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL - PRIME LOCATION: 3BR house next to Eddy Street Commons is available for commencement weekend. Walk to everything. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for details and contact number.

Home for Rent, avail. 2016-2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@gmail.com
WANTED
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Secure your summer job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, residential camp, located in south central Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 18 in various programs. We offer a wel­coming staff community in a beauti­ful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Adventure, Challenge Course Counselor, Wrangler positions available. All positions start at $250/week. Training is provided; start date May 28, 2016. For more information and an online application visit www.cam­pranchoframasa.org Questions? angi@campranchoframasa.org
PERSONAL
Want a pro to help edit/polish your dissertation or other research paper? Utilize an experienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com

Please recycle
The Observer.



10


THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

SPORTS

of his coach, saying the addi­tional width of the ice could make things difficult for the Irish.
“We’ve been practicing on the Olympic rink this whole week, kinda getting adjusted to the bigger rink and the big­ger ice,” Evans said. “I think the guys are pretty focused so far, so I think we’re well prepared. Coach was empha­sizing that we have to stay between the dots, and that there’s kind of a box around the net that we have to get to, and that’s the area that we really have to win.
“Teams get mesmerized outside the dots, and you’re not really gonna score very many goals from out there, so we really have to focus on getting to the net and getting shots there.”
Other than the Olympic-sized rink, both Jackson and Evans said faceoffs have been vital for the Irish over the course their recent un­beaten streak.
“[Faceoffs] have im­proved,” Jackson said. “Some of it has to do with your matchups too. It’s hard to say because the matchups change every game. It var­ies from week to week, and fortunately we track our success rates from previous times of playing opponents if they’re returning guys. We have some idea what the better matchups are, faceoff-wise, but it’s still always a bit of a crapshoot, especially when you’re on the road be­cause you don’t have the last change.”
“I think the biggest thing [on faceoffs] is just the in­tensity,” Evans said, “Going at every draw thinking you’re not going to lose this one, focusing on what the other guy has been doing all game. Really getting low is a big thing for me. Intensity is a really big part of it for me for sure. Sometimes I’ll lose a couple in a row because of my intensity.”
After this weekend’s pair of games against New Hampshire, Notre Dame only has one month left on its regular season schedule before the beginning of the Hockey East tournament.
“Coach has been talking about not getting too loose or too cocky,” Evans said. “We have to stay on an even pace. I mean, we have to be proud of what we’ve done so far, but we can’t let up. The most im­portant hockey is coming up at the end of the year, and we have to keep riding this but not let our highs get too high.”
The Irish face the Wildcats on Friday and Saturday in Durham, New Hampshire, before returning home for a game against No. 4 Boston College next Friday.
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu

Hockey
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

WEI LIN | The Observer
Senior middle distance runner Danielle Aragon, center, paces the Irish during Notre Dame’s Blue and Gold Invitational on Dec. 5, 2014. She will compete in this weekend’s Notre Dame Invitational. 

holder in the mile, will also start her quest for an ACC title.
On the men’s side, the trio of senior Tim Ball and ju­niors Jacob Dumford and Chris Marco will compete in the 3,000-meter run, try­ing to start the season on a high note after a long cross country season. In the 800-meter run, senior Eric Gebeke and junior Pat O’Connell will be the focus for the Irish after the two dealt with injuries, Turner said.
Junior Anthony Shivers will try to build on an im­pressive showing last week when he came within nine centimeters of the school’s record in the weight throw.
“He’s going to get some really good competition from the Michigan State throw­ers. They’re really strong,” Turner said. “So if he’s up for the challenge, I think he can break the school record Saturday.”
The Notre Dame Invitational is set to begin at 11 a.m. at Loftus Sports Center.
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu

Track
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

PAID ADVERTISEMENT



MACKENZI MARINOVICH | The Observer
Sophomore center Jake Evans looks to pass the puck during Notre Dame’s 5-1 victory over UMass on Dec. 5 at Compton Family Ice Arena. 

11

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | THE OBSERVER

SPORTS

junior guard Steve Vasturia said the upcoming middle section of the team’s 18-game ACC slate will be challenging.
“You’re gonna be tested and it’s going to be a battle pretty much every night in the ACC. … Now we’re on a roll a little bit,” Vasturia said.
In Notre Dame’s previous matchup with Boston College (7-11, 0-5), the only team still winless in league play, Irish ju­nior guard Demetrius Jackson sparked a 21-4 Irish run that cre­ated significant separation be­tween the two teams. Vasturia said Jackson is the unques­tioned leader of the team, espe­cially late in Notre Dame’s last three wins.
“He does a great job of know­ing when to be in attack mode,” Vasturia said. “At the end of the game, he’s our leader, he’s got the ball in his hands the most, so he’s going to attack the basket and really change the momen­tum of the game.”
Brey said the Mishawaka na­tive and potential lottery pick gets opposing guards’ best shot every night.
“All these guys love coming after Demetrius,” Brey said. “They’ve heard all about him. They’ve heard about his NBA draft stock, they watched him play Saturday, they heard what the Duke coach said about him. … He gets that continually.”
Jackson’s late-game play hasn’t been the only positive for the Irish over the last couple outings — senior forward Zach Auguste controlled the boards against Duke and Virginia Tech, matching a career high with 14 rebounds Saturday before top­ping it just four days later in a 22-point, 15-rebound double-double Wednesday night against the Hokies.
“I wanted personally to lead by example, to be that senior leader,” Auguste said. “I wanted to get on the glass and make sure I could do everything I can to control the tempo on the backboard.”
Notre Dame’s late-game de­fense has been aided by the in­troduction of freshman guard Rex Pflueger, who played 18 minutes Wednesday, to the rotation.
“Rex Pflueger is so key for us,” Brey said. “What an energiz­ing defender and now you have him and Vasturia that are really amazing defenders and position defenders and help defenders. He is a fearless guy, he sticks his nose in there.”
Saturday’s matchup against a former Big East foe might feel more like an old Big East game than an ACC contest for many, with former Irish forward Troy Murphy entering Notre Dame’s ring of honor. Murphy, who spent three seasons at Notre Dame before being selected 14th in the 2001 NBA Draft by the Golden State Warriors, was a two-time first-team All-American, two-time Big East Player of the Year and led the team to its former conference’s West Division crown in his final year.
“I think it’s gonna be a great day on Saturday,” Brey said. “I’m excited because it’s very fit­ting that Troy Murphy goes up in our ring of honor. He’s one of our former greats; I don’t know if it was very fair that he had to play for three coaches in three years, a great talent like that, but he did. I was fortunate enough to have him my first year, and it was really neat to look around last year behind the bench in the ACC tournament champion­ship game and see him cheering us on.
“ … I’m thrilled to have him back. I miss him. He made me look pretty good in my first year.”
The Irish and Eagles are set to tip at noon Saturday at Purcell Pavilion.
Contact Alex Carson at 
acarson1@nd.edu


M Bball
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

KATHRYN ROBINSON | The Observer
Junior guard Demetrius Jackson attacks the basket during an Irish 83-81 victory over Virginia Tech on Wednesday at Purcell Pavilion. 

through on a contested layup.
The basket was one of 23 the Irish made in the first half, when they shot a scorching 67.6 per­cent, despite dealing with a dif­ficult full-court press from the Orange throughout the game.
“I just thought the way we at­tacked off the press was very effective,” McGraw said. “We found the 3-point shooters, es­pecially [senior guard] Michaela [Mabrey], and then we drove it and found [sophomore guard Brianna Turner] for some.
“ … [Junior guard] Lindsay Allen in particular was just so smart with the ball today. She did a great job of running things and getting people the ball in the spots they needed to get them in.”
By halftime, Notre Dame was up 28 points, 57-29, after hold­ing Syracuse to 11-of-40 shooting (27.5 percent) in the half and just 11 points in the first 10 minutes.
Mabrey had connected on four of five 3-point attempts by that time, and she made two more after the break, along with a long 2-point shot, to bring her scor­ing total on the night to a career-high-tying 20 points.
The six 3s also matched Mabrey’s career high in makes behind the arc and tied a Purcell Pavilion record.
“It’s a lot of fun,” McGraw said of Mabrey’s game. “She’s got a lot of jobs out there with taking over for the freshmen when Lindsay was out, and she’s gotta take care of those guys and keep them in the right spots, and then she’s gotta do her job, too. She’s gotta think for everybody on the floor, and she did a really good job of that tonight.”
“Obviously, I couldn’t do it without my teammates, and like Coach said, Lindsay’s such a good facilitator, and she draws a lot of people, so Maddie [Cable] and I were open a lot of the time, and once we start hitting our shots, it opens up the inside,” Mabrey said.
But once the Irish came out of the locker room for the second half, they were hampered by missed shots and Syracuse of­fensive rebounds. The Orange grabbed 28 total boards on the offensive glass and turned them into 20 second-chance points during the game.
At one point during the third quarter, Syracuse went on a 12-1 run to cut Notre Dame’s lead to 18, while the Irish missed four straight field goals during that time.
McGraw said part of the team’s shortcomings in the third quar­ter were a result of its youngest players making rookie mistakes.
“The freshmen have some work to do in the press,” McGraw said. “I think they just were a lit­tle lackadaisical passing the ball, and I think that we can fix that very easily.”
The fourth quarter wasn’t much better for the Irish, who shot just 38.5 percent after half­time and tied Syracuse in scor­ing in the final two quarters at 33 points each.
Sophomore forward Brianna Turner added 19 points and five blocks, the third time in four games she’s reached that total of blocked shots, while Ogunbowale (14) and Cable (13) rounded out Notre Dame’s dou­ble-digit scorers.
Junior guard Alexis Peterson and senior guard Brianna Butler led the Orange with 12 points apiece, but their efforts — and the team’s 23-for-82 overall shooting — weren’t enough for Syracuse to overcome Notre Dame’s blazing first half on both ends of the floor.
“You have to give them a lot of credit for being who they are, the No. 3 team in the country, a very good basketball team, and they played like it tonight,” Syracuse head coach Quentin Hillsman said. “For us, we understand. I’ve played this team for 10 years now, so it’s not like I’m coming here — I think with some of the ACC teams, they’re kind of like, ‘Wow.’ But I’m like, ‘That’s Notre Dame.’ That’s what they can do when you’re not ready to play.”
The Irish return to the court Sunday, when they take on ACC opponent Virginia Tech at 1 p.m. at Purcell Pavilion.
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu

W Bball
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12


GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer
Sophomore forward Brianna Turner looks for an open teammate during Notre Dame’s 79-66 victory over Tennessee on Monday. The Irish dominated conference foe Syracuse on Thursday at Purcell Pavilion. 

12

THE OBSERVER | FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | ND 90, SYRACUSE 62

HOCKEY

ND takes unbeaten streak on road

Irish ride dominating first half to win over Syracuse

By MARY GREEN
Assistant Managing Editor
In the first half of No. 3 Notre Dame’s game against Syracuse on Thursday, Muffet McGraw seemed about as content as Muffet McGraw can be.
In the second half, the Irish head coach was quite literally pulling her hair out.
Fortunately for the Irish — and McGraw’s locks — their perfor­mance in quarters one and two was enough to keep the Orange at a safe distance en route to a 90-62 win.
Everything seemed to go right for Notre Dame (18-1, 6-0 ACC) in the first half, and even when they didn’t, the buckets were falling in anyways.
Case in point: During the first quarter, a 3-point attempt by graduate student guard Madison Cable was blocked by Syracuse (14-5, 4-2), but the rebound bounced to freshman guard Arike Ogunbowale, who came 

By HUNTER McDANIEL
Sports Writer
Looking to extend the na­tion’s longest unbeaten streak, the Irish will hit the road this weekend to take on Hockey East foe New Hampshire.
No. 13 Notre Dame (12-4-7, 8-1-2 Hockey East) currently stands in third place in the conference and has not lost over its last 10 games (7-0-3). However, the Irish have nev­er won at New Hampshire’s home rink, Whittemore Center, which will pose a new challenge for Notre Dame with its larger Olympic-sized sheet of ice.
According to Irish head coach Jeff Jackson, the larger ice surface has changed how Notre Dame has prepared this week for the Wildcats (8-10-4, 2-4-4).
“[The big sheet] impacts the game probably more on special teams than on any other area just because of the additional space, but you can also get mesmerized by the additional ten feet outside the dots,” Jackson said. “If you play outside the dots of­fensively, you’re gonna have a hard time scoring, and the same thing applies if you get stretched outside the dots a lot, then you can be picked apart a bit. You have to play the game the same, you just have to be conscious of the additional width.
“The additional space gives you comfort because you have more time, so it’s nice to have more time so you just kinda gravitate toward the outside ice. You just have to get guys to the net and you have to get pucks to the net. Sometimes you’re at differ­ent angles because of the ad­ditional width, so you have to make sure you’re getting the puck on net too.”
Sophomore center Jake Evans echoed the sentiments 


GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer
Senior guard Michaela Mabrey shoots during an Irish 79-66 
victory over Tennessee on Monday at Purcell Pavilion. 	

see W BBALL PAGE 11

see HOCKEY PAGE 10

MEN’S BASKETBALL

TRACK & FIELD

Notre Dame to take on last place Boston College 

Team hosts Notre Dame Invitational

By TOBIAS HOONHOUT
Sports Writer
Notre Dame will look to set the tone for the rest of its sea­son this weekend when the Irish host the Notre Dame Invitational on Saturday.
The last time the Irish took to the track, they turned in a somewhat disappointing showing at the Wisconsin Open last weekend, accord­ing to Irish head coach Alan Turner. And while he held out many of his top athletes from that meet, Turner said he is looking for his squad to bounce back in a big way this weekend.
“They’ve had two weeks of workouts under their belts, and we’re going to see a lot better performances,” he said. “We’ll be running everyone on my squad that’s healthy and ready to go, so we’ll be at full strength on Saturday.”
The Irish will face several familiar foes in Michigan, Michigan State, Louisville and DePaul, and both the men’s and the women’s teams are ready to make a statement, Turner said.
“I think the kids are really excited to get the season go­ing in earnest right now,” Turner said. “In collegiate track and field, a lot of us coaches really don’t put a lot of stock in those first couple meets, but now the season gets going from here on in. ...
“It just kinda gives us a good idea of where we’re at putting our athletes in competitive situations. It gives us a very good competitive vibe to get ready for the remainder of the championship season.”
The meet will serve as the start of the season for sev­eral key parts of the team, especially the members of the women’s cross country team, which finished eighth in the country this past fall. Although senior national champion Molly Seidel will not be competing, freshman standouts Anna Rohrer and Annie Heffernan will run in their first home meet at Notre Dame, while senior Danielle Aragon, the school record 

By ALEX CARSON
Associate Sports Editor
After a third consecutive hard-fought win Wednesday against Virginia Tech, Irish head coach Mike Brey said he knows his team can’t take ACC cellar-dweller Boston College’s Saturday visit to Purcell Pavilion lightly.
“I think for us, we can’t fall into the trap because of the score of the first game with Boston College,” Brey said, referencing his team’s 82-54 road win over the Eagles ear­lier this month. “I think we’re smarter than that and more mature than that, and we also know we’ve got a nice little thing going right now. With the win [Wednesday], we’ve put ourselves in a pretty good position in the standings. To get to 5-2 in the [conference] would be huge.”
Despite dropping a couple early league games, Notre Dame (13-5, 4-2 ACC) is one of three teams tied for fourth place in the ACC, and Irish 


KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer
Senior forward Zach Auguste lays the ball in during Notre Dame’s 83-81 victory over Virginia Tech on Wednesday at Purcell Pavilion. 

see TRACK PAGE 10

see M BBALL PAGE 11



