The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 73 | wEdnEsdAy, jAnuAry 20, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
students react to changes in housing 
Division of Student Affairs recently revealed plans for renovations, relocations, new dorms 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
interhall sports, signature events and mascots are just a few of the factors that contrib­ute to the spirit and unique housing system at notre dame. with 29 residence halls, each possessing its own history, the housing system is one of the university’s most beloved traditions, and one that is about to change. 
on Jan. 13, the division of student affairs sent an email alerting undergradu­ates of a new chapter in the housing system’s history. The email, signed by vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding, out­lined dorm changes such as renovations, hall community relocations, and the opening of two new residence halls this fall. 
The email said the residen­tial system is “a treasured and distinctive component of a notre dame education, and the university is dedicated to its continued vibrancy.” it listed overcrowding and the intention of advancing reno­vations as the main reasons for the dorm changes. 
as the first change as de­scribed by the email, the pangborn hall commu­nity and its rector, sr. mary donnelly, will permanently move into the new wom­en’s hall on the east side of campus. 
“This type of move will 
see reacTions PAGE 4 

KATHRYNE  ROBINSON | The Observer 
Walsh Hall, pictured here, will undergo extensive renovations during the fall semester of 2016 and the spring semester of 2017. During that time, Walsh residents will live in Pangborn Hall. 


info session details housing renovations 



Visiting actors to perform Shakespeare on campus 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
due to its status as the american base for actors From the london stage (aFTls), notre dame is supplementing its shakespeare’s First Folio exhibit, in honor of the 400th anniversary of shakespeare’s death, with workshops and performances throughout the week from this spring’s aFTls company. 

scott Jackson, executive di­rector of shakespeare at notre dame, said the company’s typical schedule was readjust­ed this year to coincide with the university hosting the First Folio. 
“This tour is exceptional be­cause we’ve had one cast and one show tour for both the fall and the spring,” Jackson said. “usually it’s a different company, five actors and a dif­ferent show for the fall and the spring. This year, we shifted that because of everything that’s going on this month, all the shakespeare-related activities.” 
Jackson said in addition to the First Folio exhibit at hesburgh library, notre dame will host two shakespeare 
see acTors PAGE 3 


SMC French-themed dinner to honor Moreau 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
an information session on new housing was held Tuesday night to elabo­rate on the email students received Jan. 13 detailing changes and renovations being made to housing on campus. The email said residents of pangborn hall will be moved to the new fe­male dorm that’s currently under construction while pangborn hall will serve as a “swing dorm” for residents of halls under renovation dur­ing the school year. The new corresponding male dorm will be filled by application. 
heather rakoczy russell, associate vice president for residential life, said the ad­dition of new dorms and ren­ovation of existing ones is a continuation of the residen­tial master plan that began 
see housing PAGE 5 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s will host a French-themed dinner wednesday to honor Fr. Basil moreau, the founding father of the congregation of holy cross. The sisters of the holy cross founded saint mary’s in 1844. 
regina wilson, director of campus ministry, said moreau is important be­cause he emerged at a time in French society when there was a lot of turmoil and a breakdown of French society structures. 

“[moreau] wanted to pro­vide a way for faithful peo­ple to address the issues of their time and be educated and be able to address those as people of faith,” wilson said. “i think that is im­portant because it sounds like the time that we’re in. There’s a lot of challenge to the ways that people have known our life as people in the united states, and some of those ways are being bro­ken down and challenged.” 
see moreau PAGE 3 


viewpoinT PAGE 6 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s BasKeTBall PAGE 16 women’s Tennis PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                    Jack rooney                      cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 


Assistant Managing Editors 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. Box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

If you could combine two animals into one, what would you name it? 

Mary Lien 


Sebastian Lopez 
sophomore 

freshman 
Farley hall 

o’neill hall 
“sloth and dolphin= slothin.” 

“Koala and lion= koalalyfe.” 

Helena Qu 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“Fainting goat and zebra= fagobra.” 


Michael Ogburn 
senior off campus 
“elephant and guinea pig= guineaphant.” 
Kristen Whalen 
senior 
off campus 
“Flamingo and whale= flaile.” 


Hannah Miller 
senior 
howard hall 
“Fox and white tiger= white tinx.” 
Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale alex carson alex winegar manny de Jesus 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Islamophobia in “Finding Vivian Labor Café Men’s Basketball vs. Women’s Basketball 
caitlyn Jordan Bianca almada 
Europe Panel Maier” Geddes Hall Boston College vs. Virginia Tech Hesburgh Center Snite Museum of Art 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Discussion related to 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

Sponsored by the Kroc Film about the street work, inequality and The Irish take on the The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as and Nanovic Institutes. photographer. social justice. Eagles. Hokies. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball vs. “A Midsummer Camille A. Brown & Film: “Room” (2015) La Misa en Espanol 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Virginia Tech Night’s Dream” Dancers DeBartolo Performance Dillon Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Pavilion Purcell Washington Hall DeBartolo Performance Arts Center 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:55 p.m. Arts Center 6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. All are welcome to 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the Performed by Actors 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Oscar nominee for  attend this weekly Mass 
we can correct our error. 

Hokies. From the London Stage. Storytelling and dance. “Best Picture” celebrated in Spanish. 


service work at westville, also be open to the public. 
lot of people go out into the 

Actors 
aFTls is also using the First “From the 27th through the 
Moreau 
world and live with meaning conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 

Folio exhibit as an opportu-30th, they’ll actually be per-
and to establish these great 

nity to carry out “the largest forming for the delegates at 
institutions we are a part of 

conferences, with which outreach effort on behalf of the shakespeare in Theatre 
moreau was born shortly — hospitals, grade schools, 
aFTls will be involved. shakespeare at notre dame in association conference, which 
after the French revolution nursing homes — and espe­
“we’ve got the First Folio ex-[its] history,” Jackson said. is going to be about 170 artis­
in 1799, and wilson said he cially educational institu­
hibit at the hesburgh library “This week, as opposed tic managing and education 
experienced the demise of tions,” wilson said. 
and we have two big confer-to teaching in university directors from shakespeare 
education and the diminish-wilson said she attended a 
ences coming up,” he said. classrooms as they normally companies all around the 
ment of faith in the public holy cross college but never 
“The shakespeare in prisons: would do, [aFTls] are leading globe,” he said. “That show is 
education system through heard of moreau or talked 
in practice conference from 90-minute … active encoun-open to the public as well, be-
his experiences in the semi-about him until later in her 
the 25th to the 27th of January, ters with the First Folio with cause washington hall has a 
nary and living post-French career. she said the impor­
followed directly by the over 1,000 area middle and lot more seats than 170.” 
revolution. tance of moreau emerged 
26th annual shakespeare in high school students,” he said. Jackson said notre dame is 
“he wanted to gather peo-with his beatification in 2007. 
Theatre conference from the “Their part of it is a 45-minute blessed to be able to experi­
ple around him to share in the “it’s really exciting to be in 
27th to the 30th of January. workshop. we have about eight ence so many different trib­
work he wanted to do,” she this time because everyone is 
aFTls hangs around next different classes a day, going utes to shakespeare during an 
said. “his idea was to gather discovering it together. … all 
week and they’re attending from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. at the infrequent and globally cel­
people of holy cross can dis-

these two conferences.” hesburgh library, and then in ebrated event. 
cover something about their 
“All people of Holy 

Jackson said this aFTls cast the meantime, ‘a midsummer “notre dame is in this very 
heritage together and in a 
Cross can discover 

is particularly equipped to night’s dream’ is opening at privileged position to be one 
way dialogue and share what 

participate in the shakespeare washington hall.” of the most internationally 
something about it means to them and shape 
in prisons conference, which Jackson said the south Bend visible launches of this global 
their heritage the legacy of that for the fu­
will “focus on practical ap-community has also found celebration of shakespeare, 
ture,” wilson said. 
together ... and 

proaches for working with non-ways to incorporate the aFTls 1616 to 2016, his 400th lega­
a mass was held sunday in 
shape the legacy of 

traditional and incarcerated visit into its regularly sched-cy,” Jackson said. “as such, we 
the holy spirit chapel in le 

populations,” according to the uled events. have a whole host of comple­
that for the future.” mans hall, wilson said. 
college of arts and letters “The south Bend county mentary events going on right 
“his feast day is on 
Regina Wilson 

events office, due to their time library system does a pro-now. 
wednesday, and so for a feast 
director of Campus Ministry 

volunteering with him at the gram called one Book, one “shakespeare’s kind of at 
to be transferred to a sunday, 

westville correctional center michiana each year, and the center of campus conver­
because usually sunday takes 

last september. this year they’ve chosen ‘a sation right now, and that’s 
women and men together to precedent, we have to have 
“i actually teach an acting midsummer night’s dream’ because the Folio’s here, we’ve 
do the work of educating and permission from the bishop 
shakespeare course at the since we’re in the middle got all of these student work-
sharing the faith. eventually of the archdiocese,” she said. 
westville correctional center, of the 400th anniversary of shops going on, the confer-
the sisters and brothers had sodexo will provide 
and every year i’ve tried to shakespeare’s death, his leg-ence is happening, we have 
to have separate constitu-the French-themed meal 
take aFTls in for a week-long acy, as well as the fact that collaborations with the opera 
tions, but his original vision wednesday. The saint mary’s 
residency there at westville,” we have these performances and the symphony, all this 
was for shared ministry and community, including off-
Jackson said. “These guys did coming up,” he said. stuff that folks should take ad-
shared life together. That was campus students, faculty and 
that back in september, and in addition to the shows vantage of because these cel­
what eventually became the staff can celebrate moreau 
so they’re going to bring that at 7:30 p.m. on wednesday, ebrations only come around 
family of holy cross.” together from 4:30 p.m. to 
experience to the shakespeare Thursday and Friday this once every 50 years,” Jackson 
she said moreau’s vision 7:30 p.m. in the noble Family 
in prisons: in practice week, Jackson said aFTls will said. 
for what it means to live a dining hall. 
conference from the 25th give one more performance of 
christian life is unique and 

through the 27th.” “a midsummer night’s dream” Contact Courtney Becker at 
life-giving. Contact Alex Winegar at 
in addition to community on January 29th, which will cbecker3@nd.edu 
“[his vision] has helped a awineg01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 






reactions 
conTinued From page 1 
honor the personal relation­ships, traditions and strong sense of community that have been formed in pangborn hall and will continue to flourish among those same women in the new women’s residence hall,” hoffmann harding said in the email. 
pangborn hall resident and sophomoreallegrawallingford said she thought the move would be positive overall for her dorm’s community. 
“i absolutely think these changes affect pangborn resi­dents positively, though some people were upset about the new location since it’s not close to south [dining hall],” wallingford said. “i’m actu­ally so excited to move to the new dorm. my hope is that the women of pangborn transi­tion well and become a larger, cohesive community with the other women who will live in the dorm.” 
pangborn hall resident and sophomore caroline decorrevont said when the news broke, she initially wit­nessed an overwhelming ex­citement from the majority of the dorm’s residents. 
“i was excited about it from the start,” decorrevont said. 
“mostly just because i know 20 years from now we can come back to campus and see this dorm that we were the first res­idents of.” 
while the pangborn hall community adjusts to a new building, the current pangborn hall building will be trans­formed into a “swing hall” for residents whose dorm build­ing will be undergoing renova­tions. The first residents of this “swing hall” will be the walsh community in the 2016-2017 school year and then Badin hall in 2017-2018. 
walsh hall rector liz detwiler said she was excited at the announcement, empha­sizing the building’s need for renovations. 
“when i was told that walsh would receive a massive reno­vation on a scale that exceeded anything done before on this campus my initial reaction was relief,” detwiler said in an email. “walsh needs this reno­vation so badly, and i felt re­lieved that the university had heard my voice and the voices of walsh women calling for building improvements.” 
detwiler said that although she was excited walsh would be restored to its original glo­ry for future generations, the move would still be difficult due to the attachment the walsh community had to the building. 
“it will take time for every­one to come to terms with their feelings about the temporary switch, but walsh has always impressed me and i have every reason to believe we will rally and be even stronger,” she said. “we are a small community and this is a big moment for us and the only way i know how to do it is together. it’s how walsh does everything: together.” 
according to the email sent to undergraduates, university leaders started a residential master plan in 2006 and in­vested nearly 56 million dollars in renovations. off-campus senior and former walsh resi­dent erin Bishop said with a plan that was in the works for so many years, she wished she and the rest of the walsh com­munity would have received earlier notice. 
“The email was the first time anyone found out about it,” Bishop said. “while it would have been hard to hear in gen­eral, i think that coming from within the hall could have softened the blow slightly. i understand that the move is necessary for the future of walsh, but i think the situa­tion should have been handled much differently, especially if it’s been in the works since 2006.” 
megan Ball, resident assistant and senior in walsh hall, said in an email that she is not worried about the move threatening walsh’s close-knit community. 
“i think that it’s a great op­portunity for walsh to be ren­ovated and made ready for the future,” Ball said. “although the one-year ‘stay-cation’ won’t be glamorous, it’s a real opportunity for the walsh community to demonstrate its tight bond and show that what makes our dorms here at notre dame is the people, not the building.” 
The second change for the upcoming school year will be the opening of the new men’s hall community, which will be led by current carroll hall rec­tor Fr. matt Kuczora. he said when he initially found out about his own move, he was shocked because he was still new to carroll and had not finished his first semester as their rector. he said he found out right before christmas break that he would be the new rector for the new dorm. 
“i’m really enjoying my time in carroll, it’s a great dorm with wonderful traditions … and having to leave that after one year is going to be pretty tough,” Kuczora said. “however, they’re trying to build a community from the ground up and they needed a pastoral presence … to start something fresh.” 
Kuczora said becoming this new dorm’s rector was in line with his duty to be a priest for those in need. he said he saw a situation with people in need of a rector and it caught his eye. 
“i’m excited to deal with events in this new hall, get people excited, bring peo­ple together,” Kuczora said. “i want to encourage guys to take leadership and start things themselves.” 
Kuczora, a 2005 graduate of the university, was dance commissioner of st. edward’s hall during his sophomore year at notre dame and was instrumental to helping start the tradition of yacht dance. he said although it is unlikely that this new men’s dorm will also have their formal on a boat, he is excited about the idea of starting new traditions. 
“i’m looking for guys around campus who want to start something new and want to lay a foundation for a notre dame experience that can go on forever,” Kuczora said. “This is going to be historical and i’m looking forward to meeting guys who can do this kind of thing.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 




Housing 
conTinued From page 1 
in 2006. 
“That residential master plan was largely aimed at what we call ‘decanting,’ or un-crowding the undergradu­ate residence halls,” rakoczy russell said. “a room, for in­stance, that’s a triple might become a double, doubles be­come singles and so reducing the configurations. some of you probably live where study room have been converted into student rooms, so we, to the extent that we could, re­versed that.” 
walsh and Badin halls were the last halls on the list to be addressed by the 2006 plan, so they, along with morrissey hall, will be the first ones ad­dressed with the new residen­tial master plan. 
“For the next chapter, we think of what will be the next residential spirit of notre dame,” rakoczy russell said. “what that master residential plan is focused on is some of the same, which is finish­ing decanting and equalizing heating and plumbing, but also something beyond that, something that’s special. That something is something we’ve come to call the ‘model program.’” 
according to rakoczy russell, the model program consists of three categories: student rooms, common space and apartments for hall staff as well as priests and faculty in residence. These 
“We have a deep and abiding love for the residential system here at Notre Dame, and we’re so grateful to be part of this campus. The motivation behind these changes is a reinvestment in the tradition we all hold so dear.” 
Erin Hoffmann Harding 
vice president of student affairs 
categories form the founda­tion for residents to “gath­er to share life” and offer a chance to “build christian community.” 
The new dorms, currently under construction, are lo­cated east of pasquerilla east hall and Knott hall. 
“These halls are comple­mentary, but asymmetrical — we didn’t want the dorms to be carbon copies of each other,” russell said. “we know our men and women’s dorms are different for many reasons, and we didn’t want them to be identical.” 
some of the differences rakoczy russell cited includ­ed full kitchens on every floor of the women’s dorm, with kitchenettes on floors two, three and four in the men’s dorm, space for food sales in the men’s basement and six-person rooms in the men’s dorm, as well as another apartment on the fourth floor for a priest or faculty member. Both dorms will have singles, doubles and quads. 
other features in the dorms, largely determined by student focus groups, include reading rooms on the first floor, a two-story open main lounge and unique rooms on the fourth floors, which rakoczy russell said was to encourage seniors to stay on campus. The cha­pels will also be highly visible from the outside. 
“our chapels are a central part of building christian community in the residence halls,” rakoczy russell said. “By situating the chapel this way, this is externally ex­pressed. when you walk past these halls, the chapel will be seen as its own entity.” 
paid adverTisemenT 


rakoczy russell said ap­plicants for the men’s dorm and the remaining beds in the women’s dorm would not be based on merit, but rather on balancing demographics, including “major, hometown, home country, interests, race, ethnicity and nationality.” 
applicants will also have the option to apply as a group as large as six — the applica­tion will allow for students to indicate whether they’re only interested in moving if the whole group is selected, un­der the assumption they must accept if the entire group is chosen. current pangborn residents may also have the opportunity to “pull in” stu­dents from other dorms. 
“we have a deep and abid­ing love for the residential system here at notre dame, and we’re so grateful to be part of this campus,” vice president of student affairs erin hoffmann harding said. “The motivation behind these changes is a reinvestment in the tradition we all hold so dear.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 



InsIdE ColuMn 

strangers to friends 
Sarah Olson 
photographer 

stranger danger. i am sure you have heard of it before. it was ingrained into many of our heads as children that strangers are bad news. 
as someone unfamiliar approaches a student, she may speed up her pace. if a stranger gives a girl a compliment, she may respond shyly, if at all, and then walk away. But is that always the best re­sponse? while being cautious and aware of surroundings is important, strangers do not always have to be avoided. in fact, everyone’s best friend was once a strang­er. strangers have the potential to turn into friends. 
so, i have come up with some simple ways to turn strangers into friends with the help of some of my past experiences. 
1) Place yourself in a new setting. 
Take initiative. Try getting coffee and then sitting in a public place alone for a bit to strike up conversation with a stranger. read those “week in nd” emails and select one event to attend every week. other easy ideas are using another dorm’s workout room (bonus points for opposite gender), going to an interesting class for which you are not registered (bonus points for participat­ing in discussion) and switching up your walking route to class (bonus points if it is freezing outside). 
2) Embrace an openness to strangers. 
make an effort to smile every day at one person you do not know. ask questions. For example, ask the waiter at a restau­rant what he recommends. when check­ing out at the huddle, ask the checkout person about her day. people are interest­ing creatures. There is always someone who knows something you do not or has an interesting story to share. 
3) If you are really feeling up for the challenge… 
Bold moves make an impact. sit next to someone who is alone in the dining hall or restaurant. Try going up to someone reading a book you have read and chat about it. if you see someone without an umbrella and it is raining, consider shar­ing yours. 
4) After all of this, tolerate rejection. 
okay, that might sound discourag­ing, but honestly, that is just life. some people might not be open to new people while others may just be having an off day or be in a hurry. Try not to let rejec­tion turn into disappointment or worse, a fear of strangers. Believe it or not, most people are kind and open, even welcom­ing, to a conversation. 
Just remember, practice makes perfect. it is okay to let your guard down every once in awhile. you never know who will be your next best friend. 
Contact Sarah Olson at solson3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Brenna Leahy 
guest columnist 
dear fellow white people, 
it is no longer acceptable to sit back and rely on minorities to educate us on systematic racism. it is our job to actively engage in movements to support people of color and work to end oppression. we can no longer sit back and stay safe; it is time to take risks. we must stop fighting to retain white privilege and start fighting for true equality for black lives. 
The catholic church believes every individual has human dignity because they are created in the like­ness of god. no matter the color of a human’s skin, every human has dignity. working to end racism and prejudice is not just a moral obligation, but an obligation fundamentally rooted in human dignity. oppression is not something new and it is not some­thing that can be destroyed by the oppressed alone. it can only be destroyed if the privileged oppressors can work to amplify the voices of the oppressed and end racial injustice. 
in order to change systemic racism, we must first accept our own white privilege. white privilege is comprised of the benefits we experience based on our skin, benefits that go beyond what is commonly experienced by non-white people under the same social, political and economic circumstances. once we accept our white privilege we can learn to see that we, collectively, are the oppressors. in order for us to have the determination and desire to shift the culture we must acknowledge the facts that 1) racism still exists and we do not live in a post-racial society, 2) white privilege exists and 3) every white individual, no matter their socioeconomic back­ground, experiences white privilege. if we individu­ally work to acknowledge these three things, we can begin the fight to end systematic racism from the ground up. 
yes, it is hard to admit that white privilege exits, admitting life was easier for you and that you were given resources and opportunities that would not necessarily have been given to a black peer. yes, white privilege means your life has been easier due to systemic normalcies of the society we live in. The problem is that most white people equate admitting to white privilege to admitting they are racist. That is not the case and it is your duty as a white individ­ual to seek out understanding of the distinction. 
it is also our duty to be allies. it is hard to come to terms with the idea of better resources being granted to the privileged, however it can be easily described using the saying, “you have to pull your­self up by the bootstraps”. if someone lacks boots, it is hard to pull themselves up by the straps. That is what it is like to be underprivileged. you lack the resources you need to succeed and the privileged take those resources for granted. 
i must stress, one cannot just title themselves an ally. The power to name allies is not in the hands of the majority, but in the hands of the minority. This is because many people call themselves allies but do not actually help the movement of the group they claim to be an ally for. Being an ally is not just saying you agree that racism is wrong. an ally takes actions to eliminate racism and help movements progress. as opal Tometi said at the Black lives matter lecture on monday, “[allies] must have skin in the game.” 

we must use our white privilege to amplify the voices of the oppressed. we must use the platform of our skin to help incite change. True allies listen and understand that they do not get to dictate how mar­ginalized groups react to their own marginalization. a key to being an ally is knowing that you do not face the same micro-aggressions, instances of rac­ism and prejudice that the marginalized group you are trying to advocate for experiences. 
as a white female, i experience few to no instances of racial injustice where i am the victim. however, i, as well as each of you, can work to empathize with the physical and emotional effects that oppression has on marginalized groups. issues of racism and oppression will never be comfortable topics to dis­cuss, but we must strive to enter into these uncom­fortable conversations because dialogue is the only way to spark change. 
There are critics who say the Black lives matter movement is wrong because god calls us to say that all lives matter. however, historically, black lives have not mattered as much as white lives, and there­fore it is with intentionality that we say “Back lives matter.” Frankly, all lives do not matter equally in a systematically racist society, and therefore the Black lives matter movement is necessary. we must understand that by saying “Black lives matter,” we are not saying that white lives do not matter. we are saying white lives have always mattered and it is time for black lives to matter just as much as white lives do. 
so, what exactly am i asking you to do? There are three simple things we must do to move forward: ac­knowledge our white privilege, empathize with the marginalized and oppressed and use our platform to promote social and institutional change. 
it is not okay to stay in our comfort zones or be afraid that we will misspeak. yes, as part of the ma­jority this is an uncomfortable conversation to have, but nothing is ever going to change if no one enters that uncomfortable dialogue. we must know when to listen and when to join the fight. not every space is meant for us to help and in certain cases, our in­volvement could hinder more than help. 
i am asking you to start actively engaging in ef­forts to advocate for black lives. Black americans often risk their lives to promote equality, so as a white person it is not okay to be “safe” with your words and actions. Take risks, piss off your mis­guided friends and stand up for what is right. This is not a comfortable fight and it will never become one. do not just sit on the sidelines; actively engage in change. 
don’t know where to start? start by researching the Black lives matter movement and its fundamen­tal principles. start by educating yourself on white privilege and what an impact it has on systematic racism. Just start. start by joining the movement. 
Brenna Leahy can be reached bleahy1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The cure for ignorance 
Ray Ramirez 
The crooked path 

it’s a new year already redolent with familiar challenges. 
saudi arabia’s execution of the shiite cleric sheikh nimr al-nimr and 46 other prisoners on Jan. 2 started the year with familiar themes of violence and retribution. saudi arabia’s official charges against nimr included the catch-all offenses of “breaking allegiance with the ruler” and “incit­ing sectarian strife.” nimr strongly supported the rights of the shiite minority in saudi arabia, but he did not advocate violence. 
in contrast, the actions of saudi arabia’s sunni rulers undermined years of international efforts to reduce violence in the region, especially to combat the islamic state and other terror groups. recent negotiations headed by the u.s. and russia, which included saudi and iranian representatives, ap­peared to be inching towards a framework for peace in syria. after announcing the executions, the saudis broke a precarious cease-fire in yemen. 
saudi arabia has a miserable human rights re­cord, strictly applying its version of islamic law to repress women and religious minorities. in tandem, saudi arabia’s oil income has sharply declined (partly due to the country’s insistence on main­taining high production levels), resulting in cuts to the profligate welfare spending saudis have long enjoyed. 
The rulers of the house of saud have pragmatic reasons for the executions: The killings present an emotional sectarian crisis to deflect anger over the cutbacks and a graphic warning of the fate of critics. 
sunnis, shiites, saudis, iranians — what does this all mean to you me? unless you have been ac­tively following news from the region, i suppose not much, or else it means what pundits on cable news or internet sources tell you it should mean. 
But simply because a situation is complicated, as admittedly this one is, you should not leave it to others to sort out the moral and political impli­cations to us as americans and residents of this planet. The whole mess is far away and inhabited by a cast of countries and cultures with which we may never be familiar, but that is the very reason why we need to step outside of our parochial com­fort zone and assess the situation with an educated approach. 
a good way to achieve some measure of an in­formed overview is to take the position you are most comfortable with — the position where you just know you have all the facts, and then look at the matter from the opposite side to provide bal­ance to your understanding. This process may be frustrating if you are seeking some sort of absolute truth, but it is necessary to place the facts in a real­istic context and not just in an established narrative on one end or the other of the political spectrum. 
The nimr situation is a good place to start. 
here’s one view: a long-time u.s. ally, saudi arabia, has taken action that may well obstruct our efforts at peace in the surrounding region. These executions followed abrupt legal actions and ap­pear to be little more than efforts to remove politi­cal opposition to the saudi regime. The u.s. should condemn such actions immediately as contrary to international established norms of justice and in­consistent with u.s. goals. 

and another view: The animosity between sunnis and shiites is centuries old. The actions of the saudi government can best be seen as an internal matter being exploited by religious factions to sup­port instability and chaos, which is fertile breed­ing ground for radical islamists. while nimr may not have explicitly advocated violence, the saudis should not be put in a position where they had to wait for deadly action in order to silence anti-gov­ernment rhetoric. 
you can readily find extensive support for each position in online news and commentary. in re­viewing these sources, i urge you to focus on re­porting and editorials that make you a little uneasy, a sure sign that you are stepping outside of your comfort zone. if you start to develop a concern that the more you examine a situation, the less you un­derstand it, then you are well on the way to devel­oping a healthy world view. 
The world is a complicated place and it is hubris to smugly insist you always know who is right and who is wrong, who is good and who is bad, which is the moral nation and which is the great satan. 
a religious leader is killed for the crime of sedi­tion, accused of being a treasonous rabble-rouser who threatened the power of an intolerant gov­ernment. The house of saud called him nimr; the romans called him Jesus christ. uncomfortable? excellent. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
2016 needs more feminism 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

The past year saw a great deal of progress for women. notable employers like netflix and the Bill and melinda gates Foundation enacted generous family leave policies, the military opened all com­bat roles for women and celebrities from Jennifer lawrence to John legend spoke out in favor of gen­der equality. 
however, we also experienced failures and stag­nation in the fight for equal rights. a woman in Tennessee was arrested after trying to end her pregnancy with a coat hanger. The very real wage gap persists. and despite the highest level ever of legislative representation by women in the u.s., we still received a global ranking of 72 when it comes to female representation in government. 
while the progress achieved for women in the 
u.s. and around the world should be celebrated, it cannot be said that women are now on equal footing with men. Feminism in its simplest form 
—
 the advocacy of women’s rights on the grounds of political, social and economic equality to men 

—
 should still be considered relevant, and perhaps more important than ever due to our inability to effect meaningful change in some fairly significant areas. 


sexual assault and rape continue to be commit­ted against women at astounding rates. nearly one in five women report experiencing rape or attempt­ed rape at some time in their lives and the majority say they were raped before the age of 25. 
employment and workplace discrimination against women in the workforce also persists. studies have shown that both overt and uncon­scious biases against women are pervasive in many different fields from science to law. 
chimamanda ngozi adichie shared in her well-known Ted talk, “we teach girls to shrink them­selves, to make themselves smaller ... you can have ambition, but not too much.” This is evident in the unconscious gender bias of many teachers, who instill harmful and disadvantageous learning pat­terns in young girls that follow them as they grow. 
some may say feminism is an exclusive move­ment and that a more all-encompassing equality movement is necessary. They are right in certain aspects. it is important that we also consider the intersectionality of other social issues such as race and class, and human rights for all people are in need of being secured. 
we can be sure that feminism must work to be more inclusive for all women. women of color, lesbians and other minority groups have found themselves isolated from mainstream feminism at times, and a movement that does not acknowledge the varying life experiences among women will not be entirely effective. 
in addition, many of the greatest issues facing us in the u.s. and in the global community affect peo­ple regardless of gender. To speak of establishing equality in such vague terms, however, ignores the unique and specific problem of gender. women are often disproportionately affected by issues such as unemployment, poverty and violence in compari­son to the rest of the population. we cannot leave half of the population behind as we work toward a better future. 

a un report on the status of women in the u.s. recently concluded that “the united states, which is a leading state in formulating international hu­man rights standards, is allowing its women to lag behind international human rights standards.” 
we continue to treat our girls and women un­equally and leave them without the legal protec­tion of their rights that we expect other countries to establish. This is something that we should no longer hide from, but rather accept and let inform the way we treat others, make decisions and vote in this important election year. 
The progress we have made so far is not enough and we still have a long way to go until women are on equal footing with men in society. 2016 holds great promise for progress toward gender equality, but it will take more than telling women they need to “lean in” and stop being so complacent. in this new year, we must be intentional about taking real, concrete steps to decrease unfair disparities be­tween men and women. 
we need more feminism. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. She is a resident of Lewis Hall and studies political science with a minor in international development studies. Contact her at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

I ll take the attention ... and I ll take it alone,” South Bend native Devin Murphy, dev09, croons as she struts by herself onto the streets and the music scene in a beau tifully produced music video for her debut single “You Made Me. 
Although she moved to Los Angeles last week, Murphy s South Bend roots are overarching in the video. Shes featured all alone perhaps to reflect the suffoca tion of the creative isolated in suburbia — in places like FunTan, USA Skate Center and the South Bend mural overpass. 
She spits curse words on top of polka dot sheets in her bedroom, her Los Angeles move foreshadowed by lyrics 2000 miles away because I m relevant” and the obvious disconnect between her surroundings and a personality 
too big to be contained by pink walls. Sparks literally fly 
throughout the video as the 18 year old singer emerges 
as a confident force to be reckoned with. Her musical influences show an eclectic taste that 
contributes to her smoothly hard hitting sound: Amy Winehouse, Bob Marley, A$AP Yams, Kurt Kobain, Frank Sinatra and The Gypsy Kings. 
I never was even comfortable singing in front of peo ple until freshman year in high school when someone put up a video of me singing Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer on Facebook,” Murphy said in a phone inter view back in December. “The video got 50 likes and it all started from there. I would post awful videos on YouTube where I would turn on the video on my phone and didn t want to be seen. The videos were black and you couldn t even hear what I was saying. ... But people were super supportive, so I learned more about producing and got a better mic. 
She started listening to rap her sophomore year at Stanley Clark high school. Perhaps you heard Murphy in her early days covering rap songs at South Bend music venue The Pool (RIP). Although she had always sung and written, exposure to the genre added a new layer to her work. 
I got really got into hip hop and learned a lot melodi cally from it, Murphy said. “I would take rap covers and add my own melody a challenge with lyrics. I got more confident putting my own music out there thanks to posi tive responses and a legit producer who could do better than my own laptop. 
That producer was Stelios Phili, who also produces for A$AP Ferg. Legit” is no over statement. And that well produced video was no thrown together product. 
Brett Haley (director of 2015 film I ll See You In My 
Dreams ) saw ‘You Made Me on Stereogum. Then he lit 
erally slid into my Instagram DMs and offered to shoot a 
music video for it. 
Murphy s current successes have arisen from opportu nities founded in social media — her stage name dev09 even stems from the Internet. 
I have this really vivid memory from when I was nine. I was standing in my backyard and I decided that being nine was going to be the best time of my life. After that I put 09’ on all my usernames, from Club Penguin to Twitter. People called me my @ name in person, so I de cided dev09 would be super true to myself in many ways. Or short answer: it s millennial [af]. 
However, the reactive, narcissistic nature of some plat 
forms have her struggling to find a balance in how she 
uses and promotes it. 
I think about this all the time. Its very conflicting for me because everything that I ve been able to accomplish musically has been through the Internet and social me dia. I grew up with Club Penguin — a part of me has al ways been used to being on the Internet. I m comfortable sharing stuff. 
Yet, “You Made Me features lyrics like Post it how you want / You love to front” to address the fake nature of some internet validation. People literally filter their lives, only posting pictures of good times in perpetuity. The idea of filtering out the bad and inciting jealousy has Murphy sympathetic for today s high schoolers. 
They re being shallow but you have to feel bad. To get all validation online must suck. Part of me feels like I need to pull back, but so much of my career was founded upon social media — I m searching for a balance. 
It is a balance many artists struggle with today: Beyoncé doesn t speak to the media enough, Kanye talks about himself too much and Taylor Swift is forging a girl squad through posed Instagrams. Younger artists like Vic Mensa and Grimes are called out for having no filter when they are the ones truly connecting with fans by us ing social media in accessible ways. 
Angel Haze is an artist who is perfectly real on twitter, while Iggy Azalea and Azealia Banks are good examples of how not to use social media. 
Murphy is one of those artists using social platforms for promotion while staying true to herself. She is equally open with her emotions in her lyrics, addressing topics other artists shy away from. 

I talk about actual stuff. I have depression and not a 
lot of musicians openly talk about that,” Murphy said. In 
retrospect, she references her single as a fight song to 
bump it felt like the s t. 
As there is a consistent hype/shame dialogue on the state of streaming, I continued on the millennial path from social media to music consumption in our conver sation: Where is it heading? Where does Murphy want it to go? 
I personally will keep using Spotify and Soundcloud to promote myself — that really works for me,” she re sponded. “You have to use those things, but at the end of the day they make it harder for artists. Adele and Taylor Swift s moves did help out by furthering the dialogue. 
Some fans get hyped about vinyl releases in a revival that has grown alongside music streaming. Nowadays, there is a balance to strike between how to support art ists and how you like to consume music. 
Dev09 s sound is Little Simz s vigorous cadence (and cursing) plus Lorde s dark, stand out vocals and perso na plus Marian Hill s smooth, electronic sound pushed. She aims to write lyrics as honestly as her idol Amy Winehouse. 
As to what we can expect from Murphy in the future, 
she is currently working on a five song EP. 
Timing wise, we re going to wait for the reaction with the music video before planning how to roll things out, Murphy said. “I think I will drop two more songs indi vidually and spaced out, and then the second two songs will drop with the EP. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



Crossword | will shorTZ 


just Add wAtEr | eric carlson & John roddy 
sudoku | The mepham group 



flInG by sPrInG | riley mccurrie HorosCoPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: handle each situation that arises this year with confidence. a direct approach will help you source out your best options and prepare you to make critical alterations that will enable you to show how efficient and responsible you can be. don’t hide or step back when taking action will lead to opportunity and new adventures. your numbers are 7, 13, 20, 28, 32, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t feel the need to buy favors, attention or friendship. overdoing it will be exactly what holds you back. concentrate on being unique, creative and following your heart. Being true to who you are and those you love is all that’s required. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): emotional matters will escalate quickly if you aren’t careful. choose your words carefully and authorize only what you feel is necessary and within your capabilities. The process of eliminating what isn’t a top priority will help you focus on what’s important. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take action and be thorough. False information will weigh heavily on the results you get. Take the time to find out what you need to know before you make a decision that can have a lasting effect. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): check out the pros and cons of a situation. you can offer help, but don’t make a donation you cannot afford. your time and effort will be what counts. consistency will help you get things done and give you the recognition you deserve.  

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): uncertainties regarding work or status will arise. concentrate on different ways you can use your expertise. defend your position, values and plans. concentrate on getting as much done as possible without jeopardizing your long-term goals. Keep the peace. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel, learning and interacting with people from different backgrounds will help you advance. use your intelligence and your imagination and you will attract both personal and professional interest. love is in the stars and romance will improve your life. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22) money matters will be a concern. creative accounting will help you gain financial stability. don’t let anyone bully you into spending on something you don’t need. a change in the way you feel about someone will alter the way you live. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): relationships should take top priority. whether it is a business or personal partner, you are best to nurture what you have by suggesting innovative plans to pull you closer together and head in the same direction. self-improvement will boost your confidence. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful how you handle your personal life and your relationships. problems will occur if you aren’t honest about what you really want. avoiding issues will only add to your discontentment. make changes that suit your needs and help you achieve your goals. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): home improvement projects will also help you improve your domestic situation. stick close to home and avoid being around unpredictable people. use caution if you get involved in physical activities that stretch your abilities. arguments are apparent. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put your time and effort into raising your income. whether you pick up a second job or apply for a position worth more monetarily, it is a good time for you to focus on improving your standard of living. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): reconnect with old friends. sharing your experiences and collaborating to reach a common goal will be beneficial and result in strong relationships that can lead to ongoing favors. love is highlighted and rekindling an important relationship will lead to benefits. 


Birthday Baby: you are dramatic, sensitive and stubborn. you are proactive, reliable and heroic. 
juMblE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



sPorts AutHorIty 

New coaches inspire hope 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
sunday is championship sunday in the nFl, that time of the year when teams with good quarterbacks get to gloat over those who don’t. 
however, as fans watch Tom Brady best peyton manning yet again (it’s not going to be close folks), the playoffs mark an im­portant time of the year for the teams that didn’t make the cut. The quest for these misfit teams: find a head coach to lead them out of obscurity. 
seven teams fired their coaches this offseason (yes giants fans, Tom coughlin was fired, there’s no such thing as a mutual break­up): the giants, eagles, 49ers, dolphins, Browns, Titans and Buccaneers. some of these teams hired a new coach who will take them to the promised land, some did not. 
The teams that improved at the head coaching position include the eagles, 49ers and the Browns. 
unfortunately for philadelphia fans, the chip Kelly experiment did not work out. Kelly was given complete control of the team and despite one nFc east division title, he failed to win consistently. Kelly was brash, unconventional and had problems controlling his locker room. The eagles new coach, former Kansas city offen­sive coordinator doug pederson, sits at the opposite end of the spectrum, spending the last three seasons as the coordinator of the nFl’s safest offense. such a shift in style is needed in the city of Brotherly love. 
Kelly will take over head coach­ing duties in san Francisco. The 49ers, who were foolish to push Jim harbaugh away, admit­ted defeat after just one year of “cheerleader” coach Jim Tomsula. Kelly will hopefully learn from his stint in philadelphia and if there is a coach who can fix colin Kaepernick, it’s Kelly. 
The last team that succeeded in their head coach search is the the cleveland Browns. To be fair, the Browns could hardly get worse than mike pettine who became the latest, and hopefully last, casualty of Johnny manziel. The Browns hired former cincinnati offensive coordinator hue Jackson as their new coach and honestly, things can only get bet­ter for the Browns. The addition of paul depodesta, a baseball sabermetrics guru, as chief strategy officer is also one of the most interesting moves in recent offseason history. 
next up are the teams whose new head coaching hires have a lot to prove but aren’t failures … yet. 
First up, the miami dolphins. The dolphins made arguably the sexiest hire by nabbing “quar­terback whisperer” adam gase. gase, who spent three seasons as the offensive coordinator of the explosive denver Broncos offense before a one-season stint with the chicago Bears where he coached Jay cutler to career marks. The only big knock is that gase is young, and at 37, will be one of the youngest head coaches in the league. 
however, it is worth noting that though gase has been in high demand as a head coach, both the 49ers and the Broncos passed on hiring him last offsea­son. additionally, his impressive numbers in denver are most likely inflated from having peyton manning at quarterback. and though cutler had a great year under gase, the Bears offense as a whole was 23rd in the league in points per game and 21st in yards. gase’s first priority will be to make dolphins quarterback ryan Tannehill into a franchise player, but even if he does, it may not translate into wins. 
The giants are in the same boat as the dolphins. The giants parted ways with longtime head coach Tom coughlin and pro­moted offensive coordinator Ben mcadoo to fill the job. mcadoo knows the offense and works well with eli manning, but so did coughlin and he failed to win a very easy nFc east for five consecutive seasons. The giants needed a more dynamic hire. 
lastly, we have the teams with last year’s first- and second-overall picks, who are also the ones who made the worst head coaching decisions this offseason. The Titans fired head coach Ken whisenhunt seven games into last season and replaced him with mike mularkey, who went 2-7 the rest of the season. simply put, you have to win more than two games with the no. 2 overall pick at quar­terback. color me unimpressed. 
Then there’s Tampa Bay, who went 6-10 last year. not a great record, but considering they went 2-14 the year before, it’s a big improvement. yet despite this quantifiable uptick, the team fired head coach lovie smith and promoted offensive coordinator dirk Koetter to smith’s job. To me, this is the biggest mistake of the offseason. smith is the man who led the Bucs’ turnaround and he was the perfect coach to keep quarterback Jameis winston out of trouble off the field. smith has a proven track record of success and i predict Tampa Bay will re­gret this decision in the years to come. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
nbA | BucKs 91, heaT 79 

Bucks smother heat with tough defense in win 
Associated Press 
miami — perhaps dwyane wade taught Khris middleton too well last summer. 
middleton scored 22 points, greg monroe added 15 points and 10 rebounds and the milwaukee Bucks clamped down defensively on wade and short-handed miami throughout, beating the heat 91-79 on Tuesday night. 
giannis antetokounmpo scored 14 points for milwaukee, which has now beaten miami five consecu­tive times. 
hassan whiteside scored 23 points and grabbed 18 re­bounds for miami, which has dropped two straight and trailed by at least 22 in each of those games. chris Bosh scored 23 and luol deng add­ed 11 for the heat. 
The heat were without four injured players, including point guards goran dragic and Beno udrih. The offense struggled mightily without them, as miami shot a season-low 36.5 percent. 

and wade, playing through shoulder pain, finished with only two points on 1-for-6 shooting in 21 minutes. it was only the third time in wade’s 973-game career, including playoffs, that he logged at least 20 minutes and didn’t score more than two points. 
it’s the first time miami has been held under 80 points in two straight games since the end of the 2011-12 regular sea­son, when the heat shut most players down and got into playoff mode. 
wade and middleton crossed paths over the sum­mer, introduced by mutual friends who suggested the milwaukee guard should reach out to the three-time nBa champion for some guidance. middleton called, wade agreed, they worked out together with trainer stan remy and wade came away impressed. 
“Talking to him, and him letting me know how he ap­proaches the game and what he’s thinking in certain situa­tions, it’s helping me out tre­mendously,” middleton said. 
The heat were also with­out Josh mcroberts and chris andersen, both sidelined by knee problems with no re­turns in sight. milwaukee was again without o.J. mayo (left hamstring) and greivis vasquez (right ankle), not to mention coach Jason Kidd (hip surgery). 
miami’s last lead was 32-31 midway through the second quarter. milwaukee closed the half on an 18-7 run, led 49-39 at the break and then outscored miami 26-18 in the third to pull away. 
nCAA MEn’s bAskEtbAll | virginia 69, clemson 62 

Virginia fends off Clemson’s comeback attempt 
Associated Press 
charloTTesville, va. — malcolm Brogdon scored 20 points and anthony gill had two big baskets late as no. 13 virginia squandered most of a 13-point lead and then held on to beat clemson 69-62 on Tuesday night. 
The cavaliers (14-4, 3-3 atlantic coast conference) led 52-39 after a 17-4 run with 9 minutes left, then saw the Tigers close within 55-53 with about 3 1/2 minutes remain­ing. But gill scored on a put-back after a miss by Brogdon, then took a feed from Brogdon moments later for a fast-break dunk that built the margin 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL ­PRIME LOCATION: 3BR house next to Eddy Street Commons is available for commencement weekend. Walk to everything. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for details and contact number. 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Secure your summer job! Camp 
back up to 59-53. 

The Tigers (12-7, 5-2), seek­ing their sixth consecutive victory and third straight over a ranked team, got back within 62-59 on a 3-point­er by Jordan roper and three free throws by Jaron Blossomgame with 1:36 to play, but Brogdon made two free throws with 30.7 seconds for the cavaliers. 
gill finished with 12 points despite foul trouble for virginia while devon hall had 11 and isaiah wilkins 10. 
Blossomgame made four 3-pointers and scored 23 for the Tigers and landry nnoko added 15 
The game was tied at 35 until Brogdon scored on a driving bank shot with 16 minutes to play. The shot sparked a 17-4 run that gave virginia a 52-39 lead and twice brought the crowd at John paul Jones arena to its feet. The cavaliers had lost three of their last four. 
devon  hall  scored  five  
points  in  the  burst  and  
Brogdon,  mike  Tobey  and  

wilkins each had four, with the crowd especially appre­ciating a one-handed dunk by Tobey off a slick feed from wilkins that pushed the lead to 50-39. 
virginia outscored clemson 13-8 over the last 7 minutes of the first half and led 31-28. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, residential camp, located in south central Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 18 in various programs. We offer a welcoming staff com­munity in a beautiful outdoor set­ting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Adventure, Challenge Course Counselor, Wrangler positions available. All positions start at $250/week. Training is provided; start date May 28, 2016. For more information and an online application visit www.campranchoframasa.org Questions? angi@camprancho­framasa.org 
PERSONAL 
Want a pro to help edit/pol­ish your dissertation or other research paper? Utilize an expe­rienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 


The oBserver | wEdnEsdAy, jAnuAry 20, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


w tennis 
conTinued From page 16 
closs and junior Jane Fennelly had a strong showing at no. 3 doubles, capturing a 6-4 win. closs was triumphant in her no. 4 singles match as well, grinding her way to a 7-6, 6-3 win. 
senior Julie vrabel complet­ed the 7-0 sweep for the irish at no. 6 singles, as she was victorious 6-3, 6-2. 
This is the second consecu­tive year the irish have defeat­ed western michigan (2-1) to kick off the new year. To start the 2015 spring season, the irish downed the Broncos, 6-1. 
next on the schedule, the irish will compete in the iTa Kickoff weekend tournament this coming weekend. The team will travel southwest to stillwater, oklahoma, where it is slated to take on unde­feated and no. 12-ranked oklahoma state. Following the match with the cowboys, the irish will remain in stillwater and take on either no. 26 northwestern or no. 27 arizona state on sunday. 
Contact Alex Ellyin at             aellyin@nd.edu 
nbA | pelicans 114, TimBerwolves 99 

davis, pelicans surge back from 17-point deficit 
Associated Press 
new orleans — anthony davis and the new orleans pelicans found a way to win convincingly de­spite an early 17-point hole. 
now they’ll have another substantial hurdle to over­come at a crucial juncture of the season: the loss of guard eric gordon to a fractured ring finger on his shooting hand. 
davis scored 35 points and the pelicans used a domi­nant second half to beat the minnesota Timberwolves 114-99 on Tuesday night for new orleans’ third victory in four games. But davis wasn’t about to absolve his team for the way it started the game. 
“That first half was kind of terrible,” davis said. “They were outworking us and playing harder than us and we just wanted to change that in the second half, so we came out with a lot of energy. 
“we kind of played with desperation,” davis added, “but we can’t wait until we’re down to start playing with desperation.” 
gordon scored 11 points, including two 3-pointers, before leaving late in the third quarter. it isn’t clear yet when his right ring fin­ger will heal enough for him to play again, but the pelicans sound certain that he’ll be missed. gordon has averaged about 15 points this season, hitting 101 3-pointers. 
“he brings a lot to the table,” davis said. “he’s shooting the ball well and it’s going to be tough with­out him, but we’ve still got to find a way to win.” 

Jrue holiday, who could wind up back in the start­ing lineup because of gordon’s injury, scored 19 points. Tyreke evans add­ed 13 for the pelicans, now four games out of the eighth and final playoff spot in the western conference with their next six games at home. 
andrew wiggins scored 21 points and Karl-anthony Towns added 20 points and 13 rebounds for minnesota, which has lost 10 of 11. ricky rubio added 15 points, but the Timberwolves were out­scored 63-39 in the second half. 
minnesota coach sam mitchell said the problem for his team in the second half was a lack of ball-move­ment as players increasing­ly looked to score instead of buckling down defensive­ly or helping create open shots for teammates. rubio agreed. 

“we started to get self­ish,” rubio said. “when we play hard on defense and can run, that is our style of game.” 
PIVotAl PErIod 
new orleans surged to its first lead with a 14-2, third-quarter run that began with a 3 by former minnesota player dante cunningham and ended with gordon’s 3, making it 65-64. 
The pelicans wound up outscoring the wolves 31-15 in the third quar­ter, which ended with the pelicans scoring four points inside the last 3 seconds 
— first with holiday hit­ting a 15-foot pull-up, then with cunningham stealing nemanja Bjelica’s inbound pass and sprinting in for a layup just before the horn sounded. 
minnesota’s gorgui deng, standing under the hoop, caught the ball as it came through the net and dis­gustedly slammed it off the court. 
“That was a game-chang­ing momentum-builder for us,” davis said. “it got all of us going and got us off the bench and got us hyped go­ing into the fourth quarter.” 
cunningham hit three 3-pointers and finished with 11 points in his 12th start this season. 
burnInG out 
The Timberwolves looked their best in the open­ing quarter, racing to their largest lead when Bjelica’s tip-in of Zach lavine’s miss made it 38-21. 
Towns had nine points and seven rebounds before the period ended. 
ClosE EnCountEr 
ryan anderson was called for a foul late in the first half despite appearing to take the worst of a col­lision with Kevin garnett away from the ball. 
nbA | pacers 97, suns 94 

Pacers end three-game losing streak 
Associated Press 
phoeniX — The indiana pacers almost blew a 20-point second-half lead Tuesday night. in the end, the deficit was too large for struggling and short-handed phoenix to close. 
monta ellis scored 20 points, paul george had 19 and the pacers beat the suns 97-94 to end a three-game losing streak. 
george added eight re­bounds and myles Turner scored 15 points for indiana. 
“This was all about us get­ting a win and getting back to playing winning basket­ball,” george said. “it was poor closing this game out. we’ve got to do a better job, but it was a good start to get­ting back to playing some defense.” 
devin Booker had a ca-reer-high 32 points for the suns, who lost for the 14th time in 15 games and fifth in a row. Brandon Knight added 21 points. 
The suns fought back to trail 95-92 with 3.8 seconds left after an off-balance 3-pointer by Knight, but they didn’t have enough time to complete the comeback. 
“we made some shots to get a comfortable lead to when they make their run, we were able to still hold them off be­cause we established that in the beginning,” ellis said. 
Joe young’s 3 made it 71­51 with 3:08 left in the third quarter, part of the rookie’s 11 points. 
The suns came back with 10 straight points, and a high-flying dunk by archie goodwin with 0.9 seconds left made it 71-61. 
The suns made only 34.6 percent of their shots. They went 0 for 7 with four turn­overs to start the second quarter and went 7:32 with­out a point between the first and second quarters. That stretch allowed the pacers to build a 15-point lead, 32-17, after young hit a long jumper at the 7:21 mark. 
phoenix committed 22 turnovers for the game. 
Booker, a rookie out of Kentucky, became the third-youngest player in nBa his­tory at age 19 years and 81 days to record a 30-point game. leBron James and Kevin durant are the only two players who were young­er than Booker to score 30 in a game, and Booker achieved the highest point total in a game for a rookie in the nBa this season. 
“i’m getting a lot of time out there and getting that opportunity so i’m learning the game every day,” Booker said. 
PlAyErs down 
The pacers lost center ian mahinmi to a sprained left ankle with 52.9 seconds left in the first half. mahinmi was going for a loose ball and came down on the back of ellis, landing awkwardly on his own left leg and crash­ing to the floor. mahinmi missed the pacers’ game at denver on sunday with a sore left heel. 
mahinmi did not play in the second half and was re­placed by Turner. 
suns starter markieff morris strained his right shoulder on a dunk attempt before halftime and did not play in the second half. he was replaced by mirza Teletovic, but Teletovic twisted an ankle in the third quarter and did not return. 
That gave extended min­utes to len and p.J. Tucker, who had to play power for­ward, and also some time for seldom-used sonny weems. 
“it is what it is, it’s a part of the league,” Tucker said. “There’s no excuse. we’ve got five guys that can play, we’ve got to out and play to­gether and play hard.” 
tIP-Ins 
pacers: F george hill missed his second straight game for personal reasons. ... g rodney stuckey missed his fourth straight game due to a sprained right ankle and bone bruise. 



sMC bAskEtbAll 

Belles host Britons in upcoming homestand 

By R.J. STEMPAK 
sports writer 
coming off a loss at Kalamazoo a week ago, saint mary’s will begin a 
three-game  home  stretch  
wednesday  night  when  
it hosts  albion at  angela  
athletic Facility.  

The Britons (5-10, 2-5 miaa), coming off a road win at adrian, average more than 62 points per game in conference play. 
The Belles (1-15, 1-6) will have their hands full keep­ing Briton senior captain darian payne off the glass and scoresheet — the for­ward leads albion in both points (12.9) and rebounds 
(11.5) per game. saint mary’s senior captain and forward Krista Knapke, who aver­ages 7.4 rebounds per game, will likely lead this effort. sophomore forward gabby diamond said the team needs to have a strong re­bounding night to top the Britons. 
“we need to be stronger under the boards and show that for a team with a good amount of height, we are a threat under the basket and cannot let anyone out re­bound us,” diamond said. 
if previous games are any indication, this should be a close battle on the boards for saint mary’s and albion, who average 38 and 41 rebounds as a team respectively. moving the ball on offense is another area of similarity for these two miaa teams, with both saint mary’s and albion averaging 12.5 assists per game. Both teams, how­ever, turn the ball over near­ly 20 times per game, and limiting turnovers could be a key for either team to win the game. 


The Belles will hope to keep their offense flowing, as they have scored an av­erage of 59 points in their last two contests, five points above their season average. diamond said she believes the offense has not been the cause of their slump, and a focus on the other side of the court will lead to victory on wednesday. 
“i think that for us to be successful against albion it’s important that we keep a strong focus on our defense,” diamond said. “in our re­cent games we have not had trouble getting our shots in, but our communication on defense, or lack there of, has resulted in more opportuni­ties for our opponents than we should allow them.” 
defensive communication is key in limiting opponent field goal percentage, an area where the Belles can improve, as they have been allowing opponents to shoot a high 43 percent mark on the season; albion is shooting 37 percent from the field this year. 
The Belles look to turn their conference season around wednesday at angela athletic Facility, with tipoff scheduled for 7:30 p.m. 
Contact R.J. Stempak at   rstempak@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




M bball 
conTinued From page 16 
his team to not become overconfident following the big win. 
“it’s a matter of staying grounded and hungry again,” Brey said. “we’ve never had to prepare after winning two in a row. This is a new two days of preparation. we’ve had two days of preparation after a loss, man, we’ve been really focused. i’m very ex­cited to see our focus here after people have told [the players] they’re pretty good for 48 hours.” 
The hokies are currently tied for third in the acc, but few expected them to have this level of success, and a preseason media poll of conference media members ranked virginia Tech 14th out of 15 acc teams. Brey said the key to the hokies’ success is head coach Buzz williams and talented guard play. 
“They just play fearlessly,” Brey said. “Buzz [williams] gets my vote for coach of the year. his teams have always played fearlessly. he’s got his kids believing. They guard you, they play hard. They’ve got really good guards, their guard are good and can con­trol the game. They’ve been down and completely out of it; they have a lot of heart. down double digits and they come back against nc state and georgia Tech and they steal wins.” 
as the irish look to extend their winning streak to three games, Brey said he plans to keep freshman forward matt ryan in the starting lineup despite colson’s breakout game against duke. Brey praised colson, who began the season as a starter but was dropped to the bench last wednesday, for his per­formance under pressure saturday. 
“[colson] is one of those guys who loves those atmo­spheres,” Brey said. “he has consistently, in this young career of his, delivered when the lights are bright. i though he gave us a lot of confidence with his demeanor and his attitude [saturday].” 
another emerging player for the irish is freshman guard rex pflueger, who chipped in seven points and two blocks in 23 min­utes played on saturday. Beachem said the team ben­efits from pflueger’s defen­sive energy. 
“[pflueger’s] very impor­tant for us because of his ac­tivity defensively,” Beachem said. “That’s something that we need, and he knocked down some shots saturday as well. But defensively, that’s something that we’re going to need all season.” 
The game will tip off at 7 
p.m. wednesday at purcell pavilion as the irish go for three straight wins. 
“it certainly sets up pretty well for us,” Brey said. “if can get to a point where we win this one wednesday, and you win three games in a row in this league, as crazy as this league is, we’d be thrilled.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish junior forward V.J. Beachem looks to pass the ball during Notre Dame’s 72-64 win over Georgia Tech on Jan. 13 at Purcell Pavilion. 
Pflueger 
conTinued From page 16 
doesn’t matter if you’re playing in front of two peo­ple or 200,000. when you’re playing you just have to stay confident, trust your abilities, and everything will happen for a reason.” 
while most freshmen, espe­cially ones coached by mike Brey, are expected to pay their dues, pflueger for his part was a highly successful high school shooting guard, ranked 83rd overall nationally, per rivals. com. while going from a stand­out prep career to the bench can be a tough transition for many, Brey said pflueger has handled everything in stride. 
“i give rex a lot of credit; he had a great attitude during the first part of the season,” Brey said. “he wasn’t playing as much. But he was getting bet­ter, his attitude was great, and eventually he was going to get his shot. and he’s an example of a guy who took advantage of his shot.” 
pflueger now is hoping his spark at duke was not an anom­aly, something he can turn into a constant for the irish who need improved depth off the bench. pflueger said sophomore forward Bonzie colson can serve as a prime example. 
“he waited his turn dur­ing acc play, and then he just blew up,” pflueger said last week before the duke game. “he competed every single day in practice. he proved that he deserved to be out there on the court, and he’s really been kind of like a model for what i’ve been striving for this year.” 


as pflueger pushes for more and more playing time as the season progresses, he said he understands all aspects of his game need some degree of improvement, although one stands out. 
“i still need to be more con­fident on the offensive end,” pflueger said. “But that’s go­ing to come with time and experience.” 
while pflueger’s confidence shooting the ball would be im­portant for the irish in adding another scorer, Brey has been quick to point out how overly confident pflueger can be on the court sometimes — includ­ing launching his first 3-point attempt against duke from long range. 
“i thought to myself, ‘c’mon man,’” Brey said. “ … most of the days he [practices] in a blue shirt … and when you’re in a blue shirt [for reserves], some­times you have a license to kind of do things sometimes that i don’t pay as much attention to. But he has to play like he’s going to play and not take bad shots or force things in a blue shirt. so when he comes over to a white shirt [for starters], his habits are consistent.” 
despite some growing pains along the way, pflueger’s emer­gence has not been overlooked by his teammates. 
“guys like rex have been competing in practice, showing flashes,” vasturia said. “it was really great for [pflueger and ryan] to step up and help this team the way we know [they can].” 
as for his play on the court, pflueger showed the poise of a veteran when letting go of a buzzer-beating 3 to put notre dame up six on duke with 
3:08 to play. That’s something vasturia said he knows will con­tinue with more confidence. 
“he’s just a kid that com­petes, since the day the sum­mer when he got here,” vasturia said. “he’s not afraid to stick his nose in there. he plays with a lot of emotion, which is great, and he brings a certain toughness which is needed.” 
with his teammates behind him, pflueger now can hope to be more of a presence, look­ing to colson last season as motivation. 
“There’s a toughness,” Brey said. “rex picks up two charges, draws two offensive fouls off of them. he’s there to get his hand on the big rebound at the end. There’s a toughness about him, and i think we need to keep cul­tivating that.” 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


MEn’s bAskEtbAll 
ND looks to build against Hokies after historic win 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
after upsetting then-no. 9 duke, the irish are looking to build momentum as they host virginia Tech tonight at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (12-5, 3-2 acc) downed the Blue devils, 95­91, on saturday at cameron indoor stadium behind a career-high 31 points from sophomore forward Bonzie colson. The victory gave notre dame its first signa­ture win of the season, and junior forward v.J. Beachem said the team’s confidence is high going into wednesday’s matchup. 
“Just to get a win like that, for our team to grow the way it did saturday, i think was a huge step for us,” Beachem said. “we want to keep it going.” 
however, defeating virginia Tech (12-6, 4-1) will likely not be an easy task for notre dame. The hokies have a quartet of wins in conference play, including a marquee win of their own over no. 13 virginia on Jan. 
5. irish head coach mike Brey said it will be important for 
see m BBall PAGE 15 

Headed in a better direction 

Pflueger shows potential in win over Duke 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
he had barely been on campus a week in august and freshman guard rex pflueger had already made a name for himself, posting a video of dunks to his Twitter account that eventually went viral when it was picked up by Bleacher report. 
over four months later and well into his freshman sea­son with the irish, pflueger’s opportunities to show off his dunking skills were limited as he found himself buried on the depth chart at guard. 
look at pflueger’s stat line thus far — averaging 1.2 points per game in just over eight minutes — and it be­comes obvious that plueger has been a reserve, a fringe player at best. 
But then, in last saturday’s win over duke, pflueger scored seven crucial points for the irish in a career-high 23 minutes in one of the row­diest environments in all of college basketball, cameron indoor stadium. 
“i think i was confident,” pflueger said. “it’s basket­ball. you go out there, it 
see pFlueger PAGE 15 

nd woMEn’s tEnnIs | nd 7, wesTern michigan 0 
irish dominate Broncos in season opener 
No. 57 Gleason leads squad to clean sweep by winning singles match in straight sets 
By ALEX ELLYIN 
sports writer 
no. 33 notre dame kicked off its 2016 campaign wednesday night against western michigan, defeat­ing the Broncos, 7-0, at eck Tennis pavilion. 
The irish (1-0) were led by senior and all-acc perform­er Quinn gleason, who came into the match ranked no. 57 in singles and no. 32 in dou­bles, alongside partner ju­nior monica robinson. The doubles team of robinson and gleason is coming off a successful 2015 season in which they qualified for the ncaa championships and were ranked as high as no. 16 nationally at one point during the campaign. To begin the match and build upon their success from last year, gleason and robinson won at no. 1 doubles, 6-0. 
Following that victory, both gleason and robinson competed at no. 1 and no. 2 singles, respectively. gleason defeated western michigan’s olivia meyers at no. 1 singles, 6-1, 6-0, while robinson won a tightly con­tested match, pulling out a 6-2, 5-7, 10-4 victory. 
other irish players who were victorious in both 
singles  and  doubles  were  
sophomores  allison  miller  
and  Brooke  Broda  and  ju­ 

nior mary closs. miller and Broda teamed up at no. 2 doubles and won, 6-2. miller had little trouble at no. 3 singles in a 6-0, 6-2 victory. Broda secured a win at no. 5 singles, 6-4, 6-4. 
see w Tennis PAGE 12 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Senior Quinn Gleason returns the ball in her 6-1, 6-0 victory over Western Michigan’s Olivia Meyers on Wednesday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Irish swept the Broncos in all seven matches. 



