The IndePendenT TO unCOVer newsPaPer serVIng The TruTh nOTre dame and and rePOrT saInT mary’s IT aCCuraTeLy 

VOLume 50, Issue 121 | TUESDAY, APRIL 12, 2016 | ndsmCObserVer.COm 
Plans for joint college abandoned 
Notre Dame will still embark on exchange programs, research projects with China’s Zhejiang University 
Observer Staff Report 
The university is no longer pursuing plans to establish a joint college with Zhejiang university (ZJu) in China, ac­cording to a letter addressed to faculty from J. nicholas entrikin, vice president and associate provost for interna­tionalization, sent monday morning. 
although notre dame will continue to foster a relation­ship with ZJu through ex­change programs and research projects, the two universities decided not to embark on the joint venture due to challenges that arose during the delibera­tion process, entrikin said in the letter. 
“after many hopeful and positive conversations on both curricular and administrative matters related to the joint col­lege, we were more easily able to discriminate and to delin­eate some of the key challenges as well as advantages in bring­ing together two very different approaches to higher educa­tion,” entrikin said. “Thorough effort was expended in ad­dressing these complexities, and at times the conversations showed exhilarating signs of progress. 

“In the end, however, some areas remained challenging for both universities, and we decided that broader coopera­tion would be a more effective means for achieving our com­mon interests.” 
entrikin and Jonathan noble, 
see COLLege PAGE 5 




nd alumnus launches buying, selling website 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
eddie mcdonough, a 2011 notre dame graduate, founded a website called neighbormate so students can buy and sell items on-line using a platform that is guaranteed to be safe and scam-free. 
mcdonough came up with the idea when he was the vic­tim of a scam on Craigslist, he said in an email. 
“The year notre dame played in the national championship game, my friends and I attempted to rent a house for the weekend through Craigslist,” he said. “we spoke to the owner on the phone and the pictures looked great, so we sent him money for the required deposit. 
“Long story short, as soon as we sent him the money, we never heard back from him again — it was a scam. after much stress and tur­moil, we were lucky enough to get out deposit check back, but it still let a bad taste in my mouth.” 
Junior Claire Condon, one of the saint mary’s ambas­sadors for neighbormate, said the website, as well as the newly released app, give students a new way to buy and sell online. she said people can sign up with a verified school or work email address, which will help connect them with oth­er users in their networks. 
Condon said the website is a great way for students to sell and buy items online. 
“It’s a great avenue to re­sell textbooks, dorm decor or clothes,” Condon said. “what makes it different than other buying and sell­ing sites is it takes out the ‘stranger danger’ of online resell. by connecting you with users in your networks, there’s a better chance that the person you’re buying [from] and selling [to] is a trusted classmate.” 
Junior megan Tobin, an­other saint mary’s ambas­sador, said she is involved with public relations for the website to gain experi­ence for her future career in advertising. 

“I thought neighbormate was an awesome idea, and I wanted to be a part of it,” she said. “I work with a team to run marketing campaigns for saint mary’s, notre dame and holy Cross College students.” 
according to mcdonough, saint mary’s is the first community to have access to neighbormate. 
“we started at saint mary’s first because of the tight-knit community that is in place,” he said. “before launching at notre dame or any larger schools, we really want to focus on saint mary’s and develop a strategy that we can successfully replicate at other institutions.” 
Though he has not started marketing at notre dame, mcdonough said he hopes to expand to have ambassadors at the university starting 
see websITe PAGE 3 




Professor examines pope’s ‘Amoris Lætitia’ 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
In Pope Francis’ new doc­ument “amoris Lætitia,” he reflects on families and places an emphasis on the complexities of the differ­ent lives people lead. In this document, Francis reminds the Church to avoid judg­ment where there is a lack of understanding of these complexities. 
Candida moss, professor of theology, said one of the goals of the document, which translates into english as “The Joy of Love,” is to give spiritual guidance to mem­bers of the Catholic Church. 
“The most important take away is that Francis is pro­foundly pastoral,” moss said in an email interview. “he wants to meet people where they are, and he is especial­ly attentive to the problems that affect Catholic families in the developing world.” 
according to an article titled “Top Ten Takeaways from ‘amoris Lætitia’” in america magazine, an im­portant theme in the docu­ment is that divorced and remarried Catholics should be more integrated into the Church. 
“This seems to me to be pri-

marily about tone and about signaling to the divorced and remarried that they are wel­coming,” moss said. “This isn’t a blanket invitation to participate in the eucharist, but Francis is especially con­cerned with encouraging 
see POPe PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 VIewPOInT PAGE 7 sCene PAGE 8 wOmen’s LaCrOsse PAGE 16 wakIng The eChOes PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
kayla mullen  Cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex Carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: Clare kossler 
News Editor: katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole Caratas Photo Editor: Caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei Cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du Lac and saint mary’s College.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-Chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
Post Office Information The Observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices POsTmasTer send address corrections to: The Observer P.O. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the associated Press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would your walk-up song be? 


Jackie Schramm 
junior Le mans hall 

“The ‘space Jam’ theme song.” 

Helen Kovach 
junior mcCandless hall 
“‘The Imperial march.’” 

Riley Harber 
first year regina hall 
“‘here,’ by alessia Cara.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Emma Gettinger 
first year 
regina hall 

“‘devil Take the hindmost,’ by andrew Lloyd weber.” 

Kate FitzMaurice 
junior 
Le mans hall 

“‘work From home,’ by Fifth harmony.” 

Kayse McGough 
sophomore 
Le mans hall 

“‘danger Line,’ by avenged sevenfold.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
nicole Caratas hunter mcdaniel Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Courtney becker rachel O’grady 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Artist Talk by Men’s Lacrosse vs. Mindful Meditation Unveiling of “The Blue-Gold Game 
emmet Farnan austin T aliaferro 
Vanessa German Marquette Coleman-Morse Shirt” 2016 Notre Dame Stadium Snite Museum of Art Arlotta Stadium Center Hammes Bookstore 12:30 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 4 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. Annual spring football 
Corrections 

German will speak on The Irish take on the Open to students, With appearance by scrimmage. 
The Observer regards itself as inspirations and work. Golden Eagles. faculty and staff. Brady Quinn. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Blood Drive Christ for the Curious “Pride and Prejudice” Labor Café Women’s Lacrosse 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Rolfs Sports and Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall vs. Duke 
however, recognize that we will make 
Recreation Center Center Arts Center 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. Arlotta Stadium 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
11 a.m. - 6 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7: 30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Discuss issues related noon 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Hosted by South Bend Discussion on the life Adapted from the to social justice and The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

Medical Foundation. of Jesus. novel by Jane Austen. income inequality. Blue Devils. 


Ryan Hall to host Wheelchair Basketball event 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
ryan hall will host the fifth annual wheelchair basketball Tournament, one of the hall’s signature events, this sunday 
Junior Christina Fernandez said she hopes to see the bracket-style tournament continue to grow in terms of participation this year. 
“[wheelchair basketball] started in 2012 with only 18 teams registered and last year, in its fourth year, we had over 70 teams registered,” Fernandez, the former ryan hall president, said in an email. “we’re hoping that in its fifth year, the tournament will be bigger and better than ever.” 
This tournament connects to the sentiment behind the ryan family’s donation of ryan hall, Fernandez said. 
“The ryan family chose to donate our hall because of a special connection to individ­uals with disabilities through their son, Corbett,” she said. “despite his physical disabili­ties, Corbett ryan graduated from notre dame and lived on campus during his time here. This led the ryan fam­ily to donate funds for a fully handicap-accessible hall so that all students, regardless of ability, would have their needs met.” 
Fernandez said the event was started by emily Voorde, a 2015 notre dame gradu­ate who lived in ryan hall and had brittle bone disease. Fernandez said Voorde al­ways said wheelchair basket­ball was not all that different from regular basketball — it’s just played on wheels. 
“[Voorde] knew this would be an amazing event that cap­tured the spirit of ryan hall,” Fernandez said. “wheelchair basketball brings athletes with and without physical dis­abilities together to level the playing field while creating an environment of inclusion.” 
sophomore grace weissend said in an email the event’s 
accessibility  makes  it  en­ 
joyable  for  everyone  who  
participates.  

“wheelchair basketball is especially fun because it sort of levels the playing field for everybody out on the court,” weissend said. “If you think you’ve got game, wait until you try and get that layup after rolling down the court in your wheelchair. everyone comes out to have a great time, and we love watching everyone laugh and shoot hoops. … I hope that everyone who par­ticipates comes away from the experience feeling humbled by their — probable — lack of game on wheels, full from all of the free Chick-fil-a and fulfilled knowing that they contributed to an incredibly impactful organization.” 

Fernandez said all funds raised from the $25 signup cost for each team of five play­ers would benefit whirlwind wheelchair International. 
“whirlwind wheelchair International is a nonprofit social enterprise that pro­vides individually-catered wheelchairs to those who need them,” she said. “given that ryan hall is the most handicap-accessible hall and was built to provide this residence hall experience to all who need it, whirlwind wheelchair International’s mission to make it possible for every person in the world who needs a high-quality wheelchair to obtain one re­ally struck a cord with us.” 
sophomore emily Casey saidhosting this tourna­ment to support whirlwind wheelchair International is a top priority for the hall. 
“whirlwind wheelchair is a cause that is very near and dear to our hearts,” Casey said in an email. “whirlwind was able to provide 45,000 wheelchairs to those in need between 2008 and 2014 and continues to produce 15,000 a year. Their efforts are made possible through generous donations and we want to help as much as we can.” 
Freshman grace seibert said she values the chance to make a difference with her 
PaId adVerTIsemenT 


dorm. 
“It’s important for me to find a way to give back in any way I can, and this is a great way to give back, gain per­spective and work with my fellow wildcats,” seibert said in an email. “I hope students leave with an understanding of how challenging it is to be in a wheelchair [and] become more aware of whirlwind wheelchair International. It’s an amazing organization and cause. The wheelchairs this organization provides change people’s lives.” 
seibert said she is excited about the opportunity the tournament provides for a new experience. 
“wheelchair basketball is super fun to play and not something you have the chance to do every day,” seibert said. “additionally, you get to put yourself in the shoes of someone who actu­ally needs a wheelchair and know that the money you are helping raise goes towards durable, sustainable wheel­chairs for people that couldn’t otherwise have them.” 
weissend said she appreci­ates the charitable side of the event as well as the communi­ty-building aspects. 
“I chose to work on wheelchair partly because it’s one of our ryan hall sig­nature events, but more im­portantly because it supports such a fantastic and im­portant cause,” weissend said. “I love that wheelchair basketball brings together groups of friends on their re­spective teams and all the participants in the tourna­ment bracket while allowing everyone involved to be con­nected to the global com­munity through whirlwind wheelchair International. The event has a very commu­nal feel to it, and that’s really special.” 
sophomore Vanessa acosta said there will be other ac­tivities and competitions in addition to the bracket tournament to entertain participants. 
“wheelchair basketball is my favorite ryan hall event because it’s for a good cause and it’s fun,” acosta said in an email. “we’ll have a contest going for the most creative team name. Lots of teams coordinate outfits for it, so this is a great way to show some spirit with your friends. we’ll have lawn games set up so you can play while you wait for your turn on the court.” 
Casey said students can sign up their teams through a google form on the event’s Facebook page or on the student shop website. 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 

Website 
COnTInued FrOm Page 1 
next semester. 
Condon said neighbormate is a good addition to the College’s campus. 
“saint mary’s is already such a tight-knit group,” she said. “now we can start shopping out of each other’s closets.” 
mcdonough said his time at notre dame gave him the sense of community and trust that he hopes neighbormate can bring to other people. 
“I felt safe buying books from an older classmate in my section, and I trusted the guys across the hall when I bought their futon,” he said. “neighbormate gives this same feeling to users, but at a large scale. now you can see what other people are selling from across the quad right on the app. It’s stress-free and makes the process much more secure.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

PaId adVerTIsemenT 




The white paper said the joint lib-
College 
eral arts college aimed to “advance 
COnTInued FrOm Page 1 
notre dame’s global academic 

reputation; promote worldwide acting executive director for the Liu notre dame’s unique and success-Institute for asia and asian studies, ful blend of teaching, research and wrote a white paper addressed to service and offer opportunities for notre dame faculty members in notre dame faculty and students October 2014 explaining the pos-to gain valuable experience teach­sible collaboration between the ing and studying in China.” two schools. according to the original white 
PaId adVerTIsemenT 

paper proposal, the notre dame-ZJu joint liberal arts college would have opened the 2017-2018 academic year. The student body would have been composed of 70 percent Chinese students and 30 percent international stu­dents. The college’s faculty would have been composed of mem­bers from both universities, and graduating students would have received a joint degree from both notre dame and ZJu. 
Over the past two years, fac­ulty advisory delegations from both universities have made multiple campus visits — to both south bend and haining — to examine the project, entrikin said. The committee reached its final conclusion after the most recent visit to China, made by a delegation that included entrikin, university President Fr. John Jenkins, Vice President for mission engagement and Church affairs Fr. william Lies and sev­eral members of the board of Trustees. 
entrikin said both univer­sities have “gained a more comprehensive mutual under­standing” and have agreed to con­tinue discussions about future forms of collaboration. This sum­mer, the university will host eight ZJu rising seniors participating in notre dame International’s isure program, which allows international students to partici­pate in engineering and science research on campus. 
ultimately, entrikin said the experience has helped the university plan and develop cur­rent and new international pro­grams, especially those in China. 
“Our Zhejiang colleagues now better understand what it means to be an excellent Catholic university, and we now bet­ter understand the academic achievements and aspirations of one of China’s leading universi­ties,” he said. “On the foundation of this newly acquired shared understanding, we may now be­gin to proceed rapidly in build­ing substantial and innovative partnership programs that will benefit both of our academic communities.” 
PaId adVerTIsemenT 


Pope 
COnTInued FrOm Page 1 
divorced and remarried to bring their children to church.” 
In “amoris Lætitia,” Frances focuses on family, saying all members are invited to live good, Christian lives because no one is excluded from god’s love. moss said though the document high­lights the theme of acceptance, this does not mean an oblit­eration of traditional Catholic values. 
“Francis is all about inviting everyone into the Church, but this doesn’t mean that it’s an ‘anything goes’ era,” moss said. “as has been widely reported, he speaks about respecting the dignity of LgbT people and says that discrimination and violence must be rejected, but he followed these statements with strong denouncements of same-sex marriage.” 
Other important points the document covers include the denouncement of the term “liv­ing in sin” and Francis’ advice that children should be educated in “god’s plan” for human sexu­ality. Francis also emphasizes a theme of cultural relativism by saying that the magisterium 
—
 the church’s teaching office 

—
 does not have an answer for every question because solutions vary between geographic loca­tions based on the area’s cultural and traditional needs. 


moss said among this theme of acceptance, the Catholic defi­nition of a family still remains unchanged. 
“The only time when he talks about the shape of the family is when he talks about the family as more than the nuclear family as incorporating uncles, cousins, grandparents, etc.” moss said. “This isn’t a new model of the family for any south american Catholic like Francis, and it’s not a new model for the Church historically.” 
moss said while “amoris Lætitia” sheds light on some new elements of Catholic teaching, overall Francis is mainly reem­phasizing Catholic thought. 
“Certainly there are elements 
— like his disapproval of heli­copter parenting and promo­tion of sex education — that are new,” moss said. “but while it is lengthy, broad and detailed, it doesn’t mark a profound shift in church teaching. Francis’s compassionate tone might seem novel, but I’m sure Jesus would like the credit for the spirit of the statement, ‘who am I to judge?’” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

An excuse not to read 
R.J. Stempak 
sports writer 

The abundance of unfunny comedies, repeti­tive action blockbusters and unoriginal sequels coming out of hollywood in the past decade has led many people to disregard the movie as a shallow form of entertainment or simply an ex­cuse to not read a book. 
I have watched about 25 films since the begin­ning of the school year. Like most people I enjoy movies, but I never sought to watch the movies that have been considered the greatest of all time, instead content to watch the most recent block of movies released in theaters. 
In my journey through the most well-ac­claimed movies of all time, I found an apprecia­tion in film as a medium, looking beyond the acting to notice the nuances of cinematography: from the framing and the lighting, to the imag­ery and symbolism. The mastery of a scene re­quires just as much skill and talent from a great director that writing a perfect chapter demands from a great author. where an author lays out a blueprint for a world that a reader must make real with his imagination, a movie director must convince his viewers that the world shown on the screen is real. 
although watching a movie is a more passive experience than reading a book, great movies will force you to re-watch and analyze every scene to understand the deeper meaning con­veyed in the film. what makes certain movies great is not so much in the complexity as it is the poignancy and originality in making a state­ment about the human condition. 
some of my favorite films all do this, but they all do it in a different way. “Fargo” uses the backdrop of bland midwestern life to highlight the depth in the motivations and desires of the film’s seemingly simple characters. “Lost in Translation” is a story of two americans in the beautiful and mesmerizing city of Tokyo, both lost in the culture of the foreign place, as well as both weary and confused about their place in life. and finally, “apocalypse now” utilizes the backdrop of the Vietnam war and intense sequences of dramatic lighting to capture the descent into the deepest and darkest places of the human mind. 
These three movies, each in their own way, showcase the power of filmmaking as a medium of artistic expression. Just as much as their hardcover counterparts, movies convey ideas through symbolism and imagery. Instead of making careful use of every word and sentence placement, movie makers must carefully set up every inch of the frame and depict their subjects in ways that will convey unspoken ideas. The subtly and ingenuity found in scenes from great films is just as impressive as any great work of literature. 
movies have not lost their ability to educate and perplex their viewers, it is just easy to no­tice how many movies are unable to pull it off. Instead of using this idea to suggest that movies are failing as a form of art, use the quantity of bad films to appreciate a true masterpiece of a film when one comes along. 
Contact R.J. Stempak at rstempak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
Let’s Talk smart 

One of the most odious ideas propagated by our thought-policing culture today is that of “cultural appropriation.” at its core, appropriation involves an artist, designer or other creator who takes ideas from one culture (typically not his or her own) and applies those ideas to his or her own work. These days, it’s about the worst thing a creator can be ac­cused of by the perennial critic class and the key­board warriors of the far left on gawker and Jezebel, short of actual racism or prejudice. It’s argued time and time again that using the elements of another culture is somehow a “theft” or minimization. 
This is, of course, nonsense. The only thing cul­tural appropriation ensures is that the best ele­ments that each culture has to offer are available to the world. This is the “melting pot” model of american excellence that has long been held up as the ideal model of cultural exchange. Like all good things, people can’t leave this alone — the latest replacement they’re trying to trot out is the “salad bowl.” 
speaking of food, even our own beloved din­ing hall is chock-full of supposed “appropriation.” my typical “I need to be somewhere else” lunch consists of pizza (Italian) and chocolate milk (a fusion of a mesoamerican food with a ubiquitous eurasian beverage). If it’s hot outside, I might grab an ice cream cone to eat on my way back to the dorm. now is there a better rebuttal to the politi­cally correct obsession with cultural appropriation than the ice cream cone? The original ice cream cone was invented at the 1904 world’s Fair in st. Louis, where arnold Fornachou had run out of pa­per dishes in which to serve his ice cream. syrian immigrant ernest hamwi happened to be selling zalabia (a waffle confection) at the next stand over. 
he rolled his zalabia into the first waffle cone, and the ice cream cone was born. what wonderful and delicious things we can make when we share our cultures! 
and how about art? as Picasso (and later steve Jobs) said, “good artists copy. great artists steal.” my favorite piece of music, Czech composer antonin dvorak’s “new world symphony,” incor­porates many themes from native american music and african-american folk music. Is it any less beautiful because of this? would “star wars” have been possible without Lucas sampling kurosawa? 
but perhaps the greatest demonstration of the foolishness of obsession over cultural appropria­tion can be found in science and mathematics. even the most basic TI-84 freely mingles dozens of Latin variables and greek operators with arabic numerals. On the page, Lobachevsky, ramanujan, Fibonacci and gauss can gather together and freely let thoughts flow. The point of origin of an idea is irrelevant; the determination of its value is made entirely on merit (If you don’t believe this, please perform the following subtraction in your head: mCmCdLXXVIII-dCCCLXXXIV). 
what the left sneeringly calls “cultural appropria­tion” isn’t harming or restricting the human race; it’s the lifeblood of progress. If you have a problem with people sharing their cultures, there’s certainly nothing stopping you from walling off yourself from the rest of the world and refusing to accept any new ideas. however, know that you’ll only be condemn­ing the culture that you so cherish to a slow death as the world outside innovates. we’ll wave at you from mars. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes  discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

a missed conversation 
when I heard that wendy davis was coming to speak on campus, my first instinct was to protest against her. but when I thought about what people have been saying about dialogue, I decided not to. Instead, I went, submitted a question, and listened. 
and I was so, so disappointed. 

davis, a former Texas state senator, started by talk­ing about the “power of placing ourselves into each other’s shoes.” but then she went on to describe what pro-life politicians do as “the ugliest thing that can happen in the political arena, and … so shameful.” she told us of how she defeated a bill because her sup­porters “literally screamed with all their might,” so that “the secretary of the senate was unable to take the vote due to their noise.” 
The students around me, the very students I wanted to engage in a dialogue, clapped and cheered. They applauded cruel and alienating words about their opponents. They applauded the forcible disruption of the democratic process and the silencing of others. 
afterwards, as people were leaving, I and some of my friends stood by the door and handed out pro-life feminist fliers, hoping to spark a conversation. Only two people stopped to talk, and only one of them was a student. most people said nothing, but many said, “Oh, we don’t want that. That’s the wrong kind of propaganda. we don’t want that. no.” senator davis herself refused to make eye contact with me. 
so yes, I’m disappointed. I’m disappointed that davis chose to use her platform to encourage the people in that auditorium, many of whom I consider my friends, to drown out others’ voices, and to reject conversation and even the proper functioning of de­mocracy. I’m disappointed that what could have been an opportunity to build bridges became another oc­casion to build walls. 
One of my friends — my freshman retreat room­mate, in fact — complained about us on social media later, saying that our fliers were “#wastedpaper.” For all of our sakes, I hope not. 
Monica Gorman 
senior april 5 



To be pro-life, dialogue is vital 
Neil Joseph 
Viewpoint Columnist 

Last week, wendy davis came to campus to talk to students about various issues. I wasn’t per­sonally able to attend (being in London makes it difficult), but from what I read, her talk centered on women’s health. This is the issue that she is a champion of: her day long filibuster blocked the Texas senate from passing a restrictive abor­tion bill. she constantly gives talks and speeches around the country on abortion and women’s health issues. naturally, bringing her to speak specifically on this was a controversial thing to happen at notre dame. Various Catholic and pro-life websites criticized the fact that this hap­pened here, the premier Catholic institution in the united states. For some, this was even more egregious than notre dame honoring barack Obama or Joe biden; her talk defending abortion directly contradicted the values that notre dame stands for. yet, as a staunchly pro-life person, I think that it was incredibly important for this talk to take place at notre dame 
On one hand, not restricting the talk at all was a shift from what we’ve seen across the country. From one university to another, students and administrators have shut down and cancelled polarizing speeches because of the controversial nature of the speaker or the misalignment with the “views of the university.” but notre dame has never (and should never) do that. In 2014, ann Coulter came to talk with similar controversy. her various views and statements on a variety of issues directly contradicted the values of notre dame, but she was allowed to speak as well. silencing and mediating the people who an entire club chooses to bring to speak silences students, and trashes the very foundation that college is built upon: students discovering their views and attempting to persuade others of them. 
On another level though, the fact that wendy davis spoke at a Catholic university underscores the important things that need to change with the abortion debate. The debate about abortion is the most polarizing issue in our country. On both sides, the voices that are heard are at the two ends: those calling for it to be banned outright and those calling for it to be available on demand. now, this isn’t to say that those voices aren’t in­credibly important and vital to their respective argument. as someone who is pro-life, I agree with and wholeheartedly support the efforts of those calling for the overturning of roe v. wade. For me, that’s the final goal. For those on the pro-choice side, keeping abortion legal is the final goal. but there’s much in the middle that can be a vital starting point. 
It’s undeniable that abortion is a bad thing. It’s a harrowing and incredibly difficult decision for women that puts their lives at risks and changes their entire existence. no person on either side wants a woman to have an abortion: there’s a rea­son why people call themselves pro-choice, not pro-abortion. abortion indicates a lack of support for women, it indicates a failure of society to take care of those who are the most vulnerable, and it indicates an inability to solve the root causes of suffering in america. I’m pro-life, but I’m also a realist. at the end of the day, we should all be working to decrease the number of abortions that happen in our country. regardless of what side of the debate that people are on, saving more lives is a common goal. That starts with addressing the root causes of abortion, figuring out why women do get abortions and doing our best to work on both sides to save as many lives as possible. 
I won’t deny that I want to see abortion out­lawed at some point in my lifetime. I absolutely do. but will it happen? Probably not. and that doesn’t mean that I shouldn’t fight as hard as I can to try and make it happen. but it also doesn’t mean that there aren’t ways to save lives that could be saved through better policy and dia­logue. It is a compromise, yes, but it isn’t com­promising my principles. because being pro-life means that every life matters, and saving one life is a victory, however small. and the only way to do that is to work to figure out how to pull people out of the situations that cause them to make those difficult decisions. and that requires work­ing with people who have a different opinion on abortion. It’s important, it saves lives and it’s still pro-life. without dialogue with others about abortion, we won’t address its root causes and won’t be able to altogether stop women from hav­ing to make the decision entirely. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He welcomes all thoughts and suggestions and can be reached at  njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

where is the talk about sexual violence? 
Last week, the student government at notre dame held its third (that I know of) sexual Violence Prayer service of the academic year. The service is a time of lament and prayer for those within our community who have been affected by sexual violence; it is also a time of corporate re­pentance. I attended one of these in the fall, and I attended the one last week. both times, maybe 30 people came. where was everyone else? 
Changes to notre dame’s alcohol policies reli­ably produce protests. I remember the outcry in 2005 when hard alcohol was banned from the dorms; and I’ve read in notre dame magazine about the marches on the dome — 1,500 strong one day, and more the following week — when the 1984 report of the university Committee on the responsible use of alcohol recommended ban­ning the consumption of alcohol in pubic places, except at tailgate parties. Only about 60 or fewer people participated in each of the two protests over sexual violence held by the “I’m someone” group last Fall. 
a little over a decade ago, it was impossible to miss the campus-wide conversation about the changes to the alcohol policy. by contrast, I am embarrassed to admit that I didn’t even know about the existence of the “I’m someone” group or their protests until a friend of mine elsewhere called my attention to them. 
but perhaps I am not wholly to blame. Fox 28 asked permission to cover their first protest — a silent march to the stadium behind the band be­fore one of the football games — but were denied. Fox 28 also reports that, for the second protest, our administration asked “I’m someone” to re­frain from marching so as not to interfere with the band. small wonder, then, that some of us missed the protests entirely. 
Instead of silencing the protests and avoiding the prayer services, shouldn’t faculty and admin­istrators at notre dame be joining in with them to signal to our student-survivors that we care about what they have suffered, and to insist that notre dame become a leader among universities work­ing to end sexual violence on their campuses? shouldn’t the prayer services themselves be just the beginning of our formal communal response to reports of sexual violence on campus instead of (as they seem to be) the beginning and the end? 
The service last week was held in the wake of a sexual assault that occurred off campus earlier this month. This month also saw a press release (posted at www.seeactstop.org) about two student survivors who “are ready to speak out about the Title IX complaints they filed against university of notre dame for failing to address a repeat perpetrator who reportedly threatened, sexually harassed, physically assaulted and/or sexually as­saulted approximately seven notre dame and st. mary’s College students while on campus.” Last year, notre dame was prominently featured in the documentary, “The hunting ground,” which dealt with a variety of problems related to sexual assault and the treatment of victims by admin­istrators and peers on college campuses. In 2014, according to the most recently available Clery report, 15 rapes were reported as having occurred on notre dame campus property, 14 of those in residence halls; and, of course, those are just the ones that were reported. we as a community have much to lament, much to repent from, much for which to pray. 
but our conversation on these topics shouldn’t only be directed toward god. we should be hav­ing more conversations with one another, and we should be doing so in an ongoing way for as long as we continue to have this problem on campus. Instead of silencing the protests, we should be encouraging them. as the speaker at last week’s prayer service said, one case of sexual violence is too many. The nation’s premier Catholic uni­versity should point the way to solving the prob­lems highlighted in “The hunting ground”; we should never have found ourselves listed among the “problem cases.” now that we have found ourselves on that list, we should together move to become foremost among those university com­munities that are taking strong, positive steps toward putting an end to sexual violence in their midst, reliably lending support to victims and instituting just and effective procedures for ad­dressing violations. 
Over a tenth of the university population came out in 1984 to show their opposition to recom­mended changes in the alcohol policy. what kind of message could be sent to survivors if even half that number were to participate in one of the prayer services, voicing our corporate sorrow over the fact that such things happen in our midst and repenting together of whatever ways in which we have been complicit? what kind of message could be sent if such numbers among us would take their stand (wherever they are allowed to stand) with “I’m someone,” or engage in some kind of communal discussion of how we can work to­gether to prevent sexual violence at notre dame? what kind of message could be sent if notre dame faculty and administrators would join in these activities, working and praying together so that everyone can enjoy the right to live and move within our community free from the threat of sexual violence? what kind of message is sent when none of this happens? 
Michael Rea 
professor of philosophy april 11 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

a 32-year old Chancelor bennett en­tered the stage via an elevated platform, and cheers began to swell; he was smiling. under the endearing “Chance the rapper” moniker, the Chicago native has taken his vibrant blend of emotionally poignant rap all over the world, but on that night, at the Chicago theatre, he was home. The stage was flooded in a bubbly pink light. The band on stage, donnie Trumpet and The social experiment, all donned white clothing. having already played his opener “angels,” Chance emerged again after a short break before beginning the opening lines of his hit, “smoke again.” behind him, a massive display of flowers in bloom graced the en­tire backdrop. It was a metaphor. 
It’s been just about four years since Chance the rapper emerged on the Chicago rap scene with his stellar “10 day” mixtape debut. Just a senior in high school at the time, Chance partially produced “10 day” while on suspension for possession of mari­juana on campus. soothing like a sweet, jazzy dream, “10 day” introduced the world to Chance the rapper’s heartfelt, inven­tively creative verses and luscious hooks now so favorably celebrated. but a lot has changed since then. after another major mix tape, a collaborative album and an al­bum alongside donnie Trumpet and The social experiment, Chance has honed his 
By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
scene writer 

Prayer works, ladies and gentlemen. There is no other explanation for the spontaneous re-emergence of the experimental math-rock outfit Three Trapped Tigers after a dis­consolate five years of waiting. yet there I was, staring at the announcement on my computer screen in awe, long since I had given up hope on the possibility of a follow­up to “route One or die,” their 2011 debut. yet there it was: a new LP, “silent earthling,” to be released in april. my prayers, answered. 
In all seriousness, I personally owe to “route One or die” much of what I under­stand about the experimental rock vanguard today, of its potential. It is a remarkable de­but that showcases the London-based Three Trapped Tigers as a band fully embrac­ing of the power electronics that their rock contemporaries were aversively shirking, a counterpoint to the retro sensibilities of early 2010s indie headliners The black keys and Vampire weekend at a time when electron­ics and acoustics were being branded in the mainstream as mutually exclusive. 
but after five years of waiting, “route One or die” was crystallizing in my mind as the “veni, vidi, vici” of experimental math-rock, as an album so self-contained that a unique craft. 2016 alone, we have already witnessed Chance drop the best verse on kanye west’s “Life of Pablo” and announce plans on a brand new mixtape due out later this month. 
Celebrating Power 92.3’s 15-year anni­versary on air, Chance the rapper joined forces with fellow Chicago hip-hop acts: katie got bandz, Lil bibby, bJ The Chicago kid, dreezy and Famous dex for an unfor­gettable show. most notable of opening acts was bJ The Chicago kid: flexing his impres­sive falsetto on an impromptu a cappella ballad during some “technical difficulties,” and working the crowd with hits “Turnin’ me up” and “Church,” bJ proved to be an artist to keep an eye on. and while katie got bandz and Lil bibby brought with them the fire of Chicago drill music, it was clear quickly that it would be Chance’s night. 
Opening his set with “good ass Intro” before transitioning into the verse of “angels,” Chance exuded happiness from the beginning. Performing solely with the instrumentation of donnie Trumpet and The social experiment, Chance covered an equal distribution of his material, rework­ing his older songs with the live band ar­rangement. hometown fans followed the young rapper on every line, which is saying a lot, considering Chance’s gift with lan­guage in lines like: “Okie dokie, alky, keep it lowkey like Thor lil bro.” as the snow of april began to coat the streets in the city he loves, Chance chose to end his impressive set with 
follow-up would only be redundant. Perhaps it is better this way, I told myself. 
I was wholly incorrect, as it would turn out. Three Trapped Tigers’ sophomore effort is anything but redundant; it is an altogether new triumph of its kind, additional evidence of the band’s inimitable prowess. 
yet while I wholly recommend their fol­low-up, it is certainly not for the faint of heart. On “silent earthling,” the band’s monolithic guitars make a reappearance, sharpened more than ever by a freezing array of skir­mishing synthesizers. Prepare to hear more erratic time signatures and epileptic riffs, not to mention some of the best drumming this side of the prime meridian. but try not to an­ticipate the same moody subtleties of “route One or die,” or you will be swept away by a sonic storm; “silent earthling” is significant­ly more aggressive than its predecessor in its overall tone, more voluminous and decid­edly denser. 
but while the record is not as patient in its development as its predecessor was, it is by no means hasty or clumsy. The self-titled opener establishes this from the start, featur­ing some of the most marked stylistic shifts on the album when synthesizers take center stage and the track skids into dance-music song structures; while the track is rough around the edges, I interpret the coarseness the touching “Chain smoker.” 

while the blooming flower metaphor can be easily projected on Chance’s blossoming career, on a more important level, Chance represents a new blossoming of rap. as an independent artist in one of music’s more cutthroat genres, Chance’s seemingly ef­fortless success makes a profound comment on the state of rap music. For one thing, the mere fact that one of today’s top rap acts can be taken seriously while preforming in front of a gigantic pink flower display is astound­ing, especially when considering the ma­chismo overload of rap’s past. 
while there have been artists in the his­tory of rap music who have challenged the status quo, conjuring acts like a Tribe Called Quest, de La soul and Talib kweli, such progressive acts never quite fully inte­grated into the mainstream. Today though, things have changed, and as traits like sen­sitivity, awareness and social impact con­tinue to spell success for mainstream acts like kendrick Lamar, J. Cole, Vince staples and, of course, Chance the rapper, the genre only stands to benefit. 
Chance also took time during Friday’s performance to pay homage to his home­town. always known to support Chicago’s second favorite baseball team, Chance made his allegiance clear on Friday, an­nouncing the success of his personally redesigned cap, before ogling over his cere­monial first pitch at the afternoon’s opening park game. The performance even included 
as a positive sign that the trio is stepping out­side of its comfort zone, in a good way. 
Other tracks, like “strebek” and “blimp,” take a somewhat more traditional approach, but are similarly fueled by further intensity. so while the track “kraken” is as hectic as anything the band has ever produced, here the compounded concatenation of increas­ingly haunting synth pads and the roar of a massive lead guitar assert themselves on one of the album’s best cuts. 
The back half of “silent earthling” temper the record’s fierce momentum. “engrams” evolves from a moody electronic piece into a storm of colliding instrumentation, while “Tekkers” and “hemisphere” have the band experimenting with rhythm, together fea­turing some of the album’s most elastic per­cussive arrangements, unlike anything seen on “route One or die.” 
The last two tracks here prove that Three Trapped Tigers has a real knack for closers. On their début, “magne” and “reset” were ebullient and cathartic tracks that were also the most polished of their lot. If “kraken” is the most compelling track on this release for its sheer boisterousness, album clos­ers “rainbow road” and “elsewhere” are easily the most refined tracks on an album whose raw power occasionally comes at the expense of polish. while the former thrusts a cameo from the Chicago bulls beloved “bucket boys” percussion group. and while much of the homage went to the city itself, Chance did take time to pay respects to Chicago’s other biggest talent and personal role model, kanye west. Performing live his and kanye’s “ultralight beam” for only the fourth time ever, Chance was glowing, climaxing on line “I met kanye west, I’m never going to fail.” The performance even included a small, white-cloaked choir help­ing to fill the chorus, and was succeeded by the introduction of fellow “The Life of Pablo” track, “Father stretch my hands Pt. 1.” 
It would be easy to state that Chance the rapper in an artist on the verge of some­thing big, and frankly anyone lucky enough to catch his superb set on Friday, would likely say as much. but Chance has never been predictable. whether he’s spending his time forfeiting the spotlight to focus on his work as a part of donnie Trumpet and The social experiment, starring in emo­tionally draining short films or lecturing at harvard, there will always be an air of capriciousness when discussing what to ex­pect from the artist. Thankfully, dynamism is integral to progression, and if Chance stands for anything as an artist, it’s this 
— and maybe also that little shriek sound he makes all the time. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                              aramos6@nd.edu 
forward at a fast pace, trailed by shimmering high-exposure neon and grounded by truly flawless drumming that builds toward a cli­max that is divinely and schizophrenically uplifting, “elsewhere” rounds off the album with some of the most airtight songwriting the band has crafted yet, with seamless pac­ing and production to match that of the most seasoned experimental rock outfits around. 
It is always a risk when a group re-emerges from obscurity several years after an im­pressive debut. The question is always: can they pull it off again? On “silent earthling,” Three Trapped Tigers answer with a resounding yes. 
now, time to go pray for The avalanches. 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at asanch11@nd.edu 
“Silent Earthling” 
Three Trapped Tigers 
Label: Superball Music Tracks: “Tekkers” If you like: Evil Ex, Emperor Yes 


ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

There is a quality threshold that a piece of art can cross in order to transcend the limitations of its genre. One second, a group of teenagers is laughing at the pointlessness of an abstract art exhibit, and the next minute they’re breathless in front of a Pollack. your mother, an avowed enemy of all things hip-hop, can’t help but ask you to play kendrick Lamar’s “I” for the seventh time in a row. your ha­tred of romantic comedies dies within the first 10 minutes of “before sunrise.” sure, some such instances of “crossover success” has more to do with the combi­nation of one genre with another so that fans of either genre can use the work as an entry point into the other one. but sometime a work is so uncompromising­ly successful at using the elements of its form that it achieves something close to an ideal that simply demands the respect of anyone who comes into contact with it. 
enter “Jumalten aika,” the eighth full-length record by black metal gi­ants moonsorrow. From an outsider 
By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

One of my favorite songs has always been “The best ever death metal band in denton” by The mountain goats. “The best ever death metal band in denton” chronicles the woes and the creative pro­cess of Cyrus and Jeff, two friends dedi­cated to making music and hailing satan (there’s a moral to the song, but will not be spoiled here). One of my favorite lines of the song details, in gloss-over fashion, the band’s lack of strength in their iden­tity in the following way: “The best ever death metal band out of denton / never settled on a name. / but the top three contenders, after weeks of debate, / were: satan’s Fingers and The killers and the hospital bombers.” It’s a hell of a song, and though the subject matter fits among it’s acoustic strumming in a misshapen manner, it works in a way that is uniquely american. 
so is it with the denton-borne, brooklyn-bred art-punking quartet Parquet Courts, who released “human Performance” on rough Trade records early this week. “human Performance” is perspective, the world of metal can seem ridiculous and even comical in almost every aspect from its reverence for all sorts of mythologies and belief systems, its elaborate and overblown cover art style and its unrelentingly serious self-image. The reverence with which metal fans describe their favorite works is all­too-easily made fun of in a music scene that purports a hip brand of self-aware dispassion. but with “Jumalten aika,” moonsorrow has seized the elements at the heart of black metal — tidal waves of riffing guitars, a relentlessly precise rhythm section and the signature yowled vocals of a long-maned frontman — and crafted a masterwork of unequivocal awe. 
The record begins with the ripple of a brook and whispering wind carrying over a wide plain, seemingly crawling out of some distant, barely-visible space on an epic mountainous landscape. a flute mel­ody peels out of the silence, followed by the roll of a hand drum — the full effect is that of a battle destined to erupt from tall grass. soon come the chanting choral vocals, swelling with the beat of the drum 
the outfit’s third LP, although it has been additionally preceded by 2 eP’s and an LP released by members of the band under the name “Parkay Quartz.” and much like “The best ever death metal band in denton,” “human Performance” shows Parquet Courts is comfortable enough with their growing fame — and with themselves — to allow for continued fidg­eting, both lyrically and sonically, which has proven successful in keeping the group from freezing into the formulaic and stilted death of monotone releases which spell the end for so many similarly profiled bands. Their new york realism, coffee-soaked anxiety and distorted light overdrive pedal riffs all fit in to the Texan sensibilities of lead singer/songwriter andrew savage in a way which is quickly becoming a movement towards the rec­lamation of americana. 
much like Cyrus and Jeff, who were told they’d never be famous and had to make a plan to get even, Parquet Courts fights on the battleground of exist­ing as an indie rock band in a post-The strokes new york, just as many garage outfits fight similar battles against a post-The white stripes america. by this and a subtle beat of a zither as shakers and bells rattle in soft rhythms. and then, with a final barrage of drums, the song bursts into its blistering form, unleashing a full-on black metal assault. 

It’s a perfect representation of the mu­sic to come. moonsorrow enriches the noisy, unforgiving walls of black metal sound with vivid sonic color, seamlessly melding massive guitar riffs with soar­ing violin arrangements and trading off between gorgeous, peaceful stretches of scandinavian folk music and blistering breakdowns without a hitch. It recalls the balance struck in the best of the epic fantasy genre, using the rich colors of an imagined world to balance out the force and violence of the conflict at the heart of the work’s story: This is music to kill drag­ons to. 
and yet, given moonsorrow’s no-holds­barred take on instrumentation and song-structure, they never fall into indul­gence. each song has, at its core, a set of brilliantly crafted and structured melo­dies and rhythms that are structured without any filler in-between. Instead of using their strengths as a crutch to allow 
rubric, “human Performance” may be seen as their biggest success to date. no longer do we see the interlocking strumming and and weaving of “Pretty machines” from 2014’s “Content nausea,” or “borrowed Time” from the debut LP “Light up gold,” which are still both phe­nomenal songs, and both albums very much worth one’s time and (dare I say) money. Instead, we see that as the band grows up their punk and alternative roots go deeper. we see savage tap deep­er into his frank yet flippant The dead milkmen-derivative vocal style, as well as the greater prominence of songwrit­ing reminiscent of Television, Orange Juice and other alternative rock titans. These are all tendrils of influence that have always existed in Parquet Courts, but now seen on “human Performance” with greater synthesis and with more ho­listically wrapped in their own tired and sandy innovation. Parquet Courts has always been fantastic, and the human­ity with which they perform on “human Performance” proves to the world that they have a bright future of existing as fantastically Parquet Courts. They continue to push the bounds of how to for moments of laziness or tangential rambling, moonsorrow pares down each song to its core on “Jumalten aika” in or­der to craft a set of songs that never fail to thrill. whether or not you have ever thrashed your head like willow smith at a metal concert, dreamed of leading an army across the great plains of a univer­sity quad or let out the roar of a dragon-born after fully destroying a particularly monstrous test, “Jumalten aika” provides a wonderful gateway into the world of metal while standing as a testament to the potential of the genre. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
“Jumalten aika” 
Moonsorrow 
Label: Century Media Tracks: “Jumalten aika” If you like: Amoral 

evoke emotion — both positive and nega­tive — within the classical conventions of four-piece indie rock, and continue to do it in a startling yet charming way. bands like this aren’t necessarily rare Internet age, but rarity should no longer be the rubric for innovation. The severity, the starkness and earnestness both in word and structure of “human Performance” put Parquet Courts amongst bands whose influence, much like “The best ever death metal band in denton, “will in time both outspace and outlive you.” 
Contact Thom Behrens at                      tbehren1@nd.edu 
“Human Performance” 
Parquet Courts 
Label: Rough Trade Tracks: “Dust,” “Outside” If you like: Teenage Cool Kids 


ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | wILL shOrTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | JOhn rOddy & erIC CarLsOn SUDOKU | The mePham grOuP 


FLING BY SPRING | rILey mCCurIe 


FOR SALE 
Bible For Sale: First Catholic Bible Printed in America by Mathew Carey, 1790. Very Rare. Full Brown Leather. Good Condition. Approximately 45 known copies. $30,000. Call 

HOROSCOPE | eugenIa LasT 
Happy Birthday: Take a critical look at where you are, and consider where you would like to be. make a decision to follow what you feel passionate about. If it entails education, apprenticeship or making a complete change in order to reach your destination, begin your journey now. romance will lead to a lifelong promise. your numbers are 7, 11, 20, 28, 32, 39, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): work to improve your relationships. strive to build a healthy, happy future that will offer stability and satisfaction. Interviews, sharing your ideas and working alongside someone you love will lead to contentment. embrace love and strive for equality. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): be progressive. make a move or take on a challenge. show courage and stand behind your beliefs. strive to be noticed for what you do to help those less fortunate than you. network and mingle with people who can offer valuable information. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Check your emotions at the door or you will end up in a regretful spat. a secretive approach will help you buy time in order to figure out the most strategic moves. don’t put yourself in a poor financial position. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): be a self-starter. don’t let anyone bamboozle you into a situation that can upset your reputation or current position. Protect your rights by taking action before someone else does. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t allow stubbornness to be your downfall. be open to what others do and say, and you will learn something and find a way to enhance what you want to do. romance will help to stabilize your personal life. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): separate business and personal matters. your concern should be with maintaining balance and productivity. an emotional situation must not be allowed to interfere with responsibilities that can affect your income. be forceful in your convictions and avoid indulgence. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take an interest in the things your children, friends or romantic partner are into. being versatile and playful will help you attract interest in your life, projects and hobbies. romance will encourage a better relationship and future. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t wait until it is too late. ask for advice and discuss financial options with an expert. Take control and make the necessary adjustments to ensure you have enough to enjoy life and maintain your standard of living. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): ask questions and do your own research. you are advised to stay informed and be aware that other circumstances can alter the outcome of a deal or project you want to pursue. Proceed with caution. make physical activity and romance a priority. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t feel too eager to bring about change. watch and see what others do and rely on your own strategy to win. avoid taking physical or financial risks. share your thoughts, but don’t force your will. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can make a difference to someone in need. your sensitivity to a situation that affects your household will lead to workable solutions. Offer suggestions and physical assistance to others in lieu of cash. an affectionate gesture could lead to romance. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stay in the loop. Listen to what’s being said and don’t overreact or make assumptions. be aware of what’s happening and control your emotions to avoid a costly mistake. don’t offer anything you don’t want to part with. 

Birthday Baby: you are resourceful, productive and diverse. you are humane and intellectual. 
JUMBLE | daVId hOyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
for details. 207-299-3962 
“I was riding shotgun with my hair undone in the front seat of his car. He’s got a one-hand feel on the steering wheel, the other on my heart. I look around, turn the radio down. He says, “Baby, 
To receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The Observer P.O. box 779 notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
City 
is something wrong?” I say, “Nothin, I was just thinkin’ how we don’t have a song.” And he said, “Our song is a slamming screen door, sneakin’ out late, tapping on your window. When we’re on the phone and you talk real slow.’” 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Willett deserves Masters credit 

Ben Padanilam 
associate sports editor 
The year’s first major cham­pionship came to a close with danny willett securing the first major of his career at this weekend’s masters. 
yet, all anyone seems to want to talk about is Jordan spieth’s disaster 12th hole and subse­quent meltdown in the final round that led to him ceding his 65-hole lead. 
granted, spieth’s collapse with another green jacket within his reach was shock­ing to say the least. Finding the water once? unlikely. but twice? Impossible. yet, against all odds and expectations, the normally imperturbable 22­year old fell apart by recording a quadruple bogey on a par three, turning his one-stroke lead into a three-stroke deficit in the blink of an eye. 
and because of this, no one is giving willett the credit he’s due. 
among the 57 golfers who made the cut and weathered the strong winds and tough playing conditions over the last rounds, willett was the best, shooting a strong even-par 72 on saturday and a five-under 67 on sunday. 
To put in perspective how difficult the conditions were 
— amongst other factors of course — 18 players shot at least five-under par for the tournament in last year’s masters. and that was the mark that ultimately won this year’s grand event. 
sure, spieth collapsed. but just as spieth walked up to that ominous hole, willet was fin­ishing up the 14th hole with his second consecutive birdie and fourth on the day to narrow spieth’s lead to one. 
and while willett played a bogey-free final round to work his way back up the leader-board, spieth struggled to find consistency throughout the day, as he notched four bogeys in addition to his dud on the 12th hole. 
In a masters where the win­ning score was worse than eight-under par for the first time since 2007, one shot on the final day wasn’t going to be the difference between a green jacket and falling short. Consistency ruled the day, and danny willett was king sunday. 
because even if he hadn’t collapsed sunday, spieth would have still had to com­pete with willett down the stretch, meaning it wasn’t nec­essarily spieth’s tournament to lose when he walked up to the 12th tee box, as much as many people may like to think. 
so let’s give willett the credit he’s due for winning the most prestigious golf tournament in the world. 
now, willett’s performance and spieth’s collapse weren’t the only interesting storylines coming out of the tournament. 
First, many people were sur­prised to see the likes of ricky Fowler, Phil mickelson, Zach Johnson and Jason dufner, amongst others, to miss the cut following exceptionally poor rounds by their standards. 
Likewise, rory mcIlroy’s poor third round and smylie kaufman’s and bernhard Langer’s strong third rounds made for an interesting leader-board heading into the fourth day. you had the popular pick in spieth followed by a group of old faces and relative unknowns. 
Lost in it all was the fact that Tiger woods wasn’t in the field. while no one expects him to be competitive should he ever make his comeback to the course, woods always attracts fans and adds to the spectacle of the majors. 
but on this weekend and in this masters, the spectacle didn’t suffer without Tiger. spieth and mcIlroy heading into the weekend as leaders gave everyone the star power they sought, and spieth’s col­lapse — as tough as it was to watch — became a storyline no one saw coming but everyone was talking about. 
ultimately, this weekend showed that golf can be in a good place without Tiger woods, as the parity in the field and the notable stars to clamor about carry the game forward. This development has been in the works for a while, but it saw its full maturity this weekend. as a fan of Tiger’s play on the course, it’s hard for me to admit: golf is moving on from Tiger, and its ultimately what will be best for the game going forward. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC LACROSSE | smC 20, OLIVeT 0 
belles blank Olivet on road in conference contest 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 

On saturday afternoon on the road, the belles were able to pick up a win in shutout fashion with a 20-0 victory over Olivet. This marked the belles’ (5-5, 2-0 mIaa) sec­ond consecutive win, both coming as conference play has just begun. The team has moved to an even .500 record on the season with six games remaining before the confer­ence tournament begins in early may. belles head coach amy Long has taken note of her team’s recent success and is pleased with how it played against Olivet (0-5, 0-2). 
“we had a large focus on limiting the number of turn­overs we gave up and I feel that translated to our large amount of success in the game,” Long said. “we lim­ited the number of turnovers we allowed to just 12 in the game which was down from over 40 in the adrian game. 
“This strong start in conference play has been huge for our confidence,” she said. “we are really get­ting into a rhythm and know we can and will accomplish our goal of qualifying for the mIaa tournament.” 
On saturday against the Tigers, st. mary’s broke four single-game school records, including most goals (20), as­sists (10), points (30) and few­est shots allowed (3), and it picked up the program’s first ever shutout. Throughout the entirety of the game, nine dif­ferent players scored at least one goal, led by junior attack emilie Vanneste’s five goals. 
In the coming week, st. mary’s will be playing in two more contests, one each against Trine and albion. Trine has lost their first two games to start conference play and still remains winless on the season. albion, how­ever, is on a 2-0 to start con­ference play, with the britons showcasing a 3-6 record on the season. 
“we are excited as we head into our games this week,” Long said. “we expect the competition to be more chal­lenging this week and under­stand we have to continue to put forth the extra effort in our practices to play to our potential in this week’s games. we are excited to con­tinue to show the conference what we are capable of.” 
If the belles are to extend their winning streak, they will need junior goaltender shannon weyer to keep up her strong play in net. 
“shannon weyer had an outstanding week last week,” Long said. “she finished the week with a save percentage of 59.1 percent and played solid defense for our team by causing one turnover and collecting five ground balls in our adrian game.” 
The belles begin play this week Tuesday as they host Trine at 5 p.m. at the holy Cross College south Field. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 

MLB | whITe sOX 4, TwIns 1 
White Sox hand winless Twins another loss 
Associated Press 

mInneaPOLIs — Jose Quintana leads the major leagues with a whopping 53 no-decisions since his ca­reer began with the Chicago white sox in 2012. 
with an enhanced offense behind him, maybe the trend will end this season. 
austin Jackson hit a two-run, two-out single in the fourth inning after just miss­ing a grand slam, lifting Quintana and the white sox to a 4-1 victory monday that spoiled minnesota’s home opener and stuck the win­less Twins with their seventh straight loss. 
Quintana (1-0) pitched six smooth innings with one run allowed for the white sox, who have won five of their first seven games. 
“I feel this is the year for no more no-decisions,” said Quintana, whose start was pushed back one day by the rainout sunday in Chicago. “when you come into the ballpark every day, you come in excited for it because you have a new team, a real team, and we’ve got a chance.” 
Todd Frazier, the most prominent of the offsea­son acquisitions, sparked a second-inning rally with a leadoff single and later added an rbI double. That proved to be plenty for Quintana, who has mastered the art of consistency even if his career record is a mere 34-34. 
“he is just as solid as it gets,” manager robin Ventura said. 
Twins starter kyle gibson (0-2) was charged with only one earned run over 5 2/3 in­nings, but he was in trouble often and threw a wild pitch that set up Frazier to score on a single by brett Lawrie. 
The Twins, off to the worst start for the franchise since the washington senators went 0-13 in 1904, were 0 for 6 with runners in scoring posi­tion and are a majors-worst 5 for 55 in those situations this season. 
“guys are trying to do way too much,” third baseman Trevor Plouffe said. 
The wind gusted up to 35 mph on a 42-degree af­ternoon, but this was a chilly start for the Twins in more ways than one. when kurt suzuki’s bunt attempt popped up and relief pitcher matt albers caught it for an easy double play in the sev­enth inning, boos bounced around the ballpark. 
“guys are struggling,” manager Paul molitor said, “and I’m sure there’s some pressing going on.” 
The white sox, after the spring training controversy involving departed veteran adam Laroche and the club­house presence of his teen­age son, drake, have been playing burden-free baseball so far. 
Jackson has a hit or a run in every game. his drive down the left field line missed a grand slam by a few inches, squeezing between the lime­stone wall and the foul pole in the fourth. he put the white sox up 3-0 with his smash up the middle on the next pitch. 
“This is a great group of guys right here. everybody’s working toward a similar goal, and I was fortunate that I was able to come in and fit right in,” Jackson said. 
Tough time 
The Twins have played less than 5 percent of their schedule, but a turnaround could be tough. according to sTaTs research, no major league team has ever start­ed 0-7 and qualified for the postseason. Three teams did so after dropping their first six games: Pittsburgh (1974), Cincinnati (1995) and Tampa bay (2011). 




ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | CLemsOn 4, nd 3; ga. TeCh 4, nd 3 
Notre Dame falls twice in ACC showdowns 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame lost a close 4-3 conference home match against Clemson on Friday then came up on the wrong end of another 4-3 decision two days later against georgia Tech. 
during Friday’s matchup with the Tigers (10-7, 8-4 aCC), the Irish (10-11, 4-8) were able to claim two victories in the sin­gles competition. sophomore brooke broda won her match 6-1, 6-3 on court no. 4. On court no. 6, freshman rachel Chong emerged victorious 6-1, 6-2. From there, though, it was all Tigers. sophomore allison miller lost her match 6-2, 6-2 on court no. 2. On court no. 5, junior Jane Fennelly came up short in a 7-6(8), 6-4 decision. On court no. 1, senior Quinn gleason was defeated 6-2, 7-6(7). The other Irish singles loss was junior mary Closs, who won the first set 6-3 before being bested in the last two sets 6-4, 7-5 on court no. 3. 
despite the losses in the singles competition, the Irish dominated the doubles compe­tition to start the day. The dou­bles team of gleason/Fennelly won 6-4 on court no. 1, while Closs and senior Julie Vrabel came out of their match with a 6-4 victory on court no. 2. On court no. 3, broda/miller were tied 6-6 before their match was discontinued. 
Then on sunday, the Irish split decisions with the yellow Jackets (15-6, 10-2) in the singles matchup. after losing her first set 6-2, broda won her match by winning the final two sets 7-5, 1-0(7) on court no. 4. miller also earned a come from behind vic­tory. after dropping her first set 6-1, miller came out on top on court no. 2 by winning the final two sets 6-3, 6-1. On court no. 1, gleason won her first set 6-2 be­fore being bested 6-3 in the sec­ond set. gleason took the third and deciding set with a score of 1-0(6). Closs, Fennelly and Chong did not have the same success as their other three teammates, however. Closs lost her match in straight sets 6-3, 7-5 on court no. 3. Fennelly met the same fate on court no. 5, losing 6-0, 6-4. Chong lost a close first set on court no. 6 7-6(0) before being bested in the second set 6-1 on court. 
In the doubles competition, broda/miller emerged victorious in their match 6-3 on court no. 

3. The pairs of gleason/Fennelly and Closs/Vrabel both fell by scores of 6-3 on courts no. 1 and 2, respectively. 
“we played two tough matches this past weekend and came up short in both,” Irish head coach Jay Louderback said. “we have been playing the top teams close but just haven’t been able to put up four points in the matches.” 
when asked which of his players he thinks made the big­gest contribution for his team this weekend, Louderback re­sponded he thought miller and gleason rose up to meet the challenge in the match against georgia Tech. he also said he was happy with the improve­ment the doubles teams showed over the weekend. 
“allie miller and Quinn gleason both had good wins against georgia Tech as both of their players are ranked in the top 40,” Louderback said. “I feel our doubles has gotten to the point where we have a good chance to win 2 of 3.” 
notre dame will be back in action this weekend when they take on conference-foe Virginia Tech Friday afternoon at the Courtney Tennis Center. Then on sunday, the Irish will travel to Charlottesville, Virginia, for a match against Virginia. 
“we have two more top 30 opportunities this weekend with one of them at home,” Louderback said. 
sunday’s matchup will be the last of the regular season for the Irish before they turn their at­tention to the aCC champion­ship in Cary, north Carolina, next week. 

Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

TRACK & FIELD | sun angeL TraCk CLassIC 
bamgbose, Irish find success in arizona 
bamgbose also notched a fourth-10th. In the 200-meter dash, barber set the standard for her shivers returned saturday to 
Observer Staff Report 

place finish in the 4x100-meter english finished fifth while Lewis athletes by taking second in the add an eighth place in the discus 
This past weekend, both the relay with barber, english and finished 12th. Lewis would add a 100-meter hurdles with a time of throw to his second place in the Irish men’s and women’s squads freshman kyla Lewis. fifth-place finish in the 100-me-:13.07. men’s hammer throw, and soph­competed in the 37th annual bamgbose was not the only ter dash, and sophomore allison sophomore drake stimson omore hunter holton finished sun angel Track Classic hosted member of the Irish who found bartoszewicz followed .01 sec-represented the men on the track 13th in the high jump. at arizona state. The competi-success in arizona, however, onds behind her to take seventh. with a time of 54.31 in the 400, with the conclusion of the sun tion began Friday at sun angel with barber posting a :57.85 mark sophomore Payton miller fin-as did volunteer assistant coach angel Classic, the Irish now gear stadium in Tempe, arizona, in the 400-meter hurdles to place ished 19th overall in the 400, and Chris giesting, who took third up for the aCC/big Ten Challenge and featured 16 notre dame second overall. racing along-notre dame graduate-turned-place in the 400 with a time of in Louisville, kentucky, on april student-athletes. side her was shead, who finished volunteer assistant coach Jade :45.88. 16. 
In the few events that took 

PaId adVerTIsemenT 
place on opening day, the Irish began on strong footing with ju­nior anthony shivers’s 58.37-me­ter distance throw in the men’s hammer throw, a mark that would eventually land him in second place in the final stand­ings behind air Force senior spencer baldwin. shivers’ sec-ond-place finish followed a first-place one in the discus at the stanford Invitational on april 
1. senior nick hauser followed shivers’ efforts by placing fifth overall with a top throw of 60.73 meters in the premiere men’s hammer throw. hauser saved his best for last, making his scor­ing attempt on his sixth and final throw. shivers and hauser set the tone for the other 14 notre dame athletes who began competition saturday. 
senior margaret bamgbose, a 2015 all-american, raced to two first-place victories — in the 400-meter dash individu­ally and in the 4x400-meter re­lay along with graduate student kaila barber and sophomores Parker english and Jordan shead. 




NFL 

Questions remain about former player’s death 
Associated Press 
new OrLeans — People across Louisiana sought monday to process the news that one of the saints’ much-loved players, former defensive end will smith, was shot in the back saturday night in what po­lice called a deadly act of road rage. 
smith, 34, arrived in new Orleans in 2004 as a no. 1 draft pick and played with such pas­sion and power that he quickly became a defensive captain. Off the field, he won hearts in his adopted city, which was devas­tated by hurricane katrina in 2005 and rejuvenated when the saints won the super bowl in 2009. 
“I am telling you that this man loved the city of new Orleans,” said Terrell haynes, who got to know smith and his wife racquel through their work with kingsley house, an organi­zation helping underprivileged families and kids. “That’s the part that is really disheartening, that this man loved this city.” 
Police said Cardell hayes, a former semi-pro football player, rear-ended smith’s mercedes g63 with his humvee h2, push­ing smith’s big, blocky suV into a Chevrolet Impala carrying smith’s acquaintances, before hayes opened fire. 
a defense attorney for hayes, John Fuller, said there’s more to the story: he said hayes himself had been rear-ended moments earlier by a hit-and-run driver, and called 911 to describe the car he was following before he ran into the back of smith’s mercedes. It remains unclear whether the car he was pursuing was the mercedes, the Impala or some other unrelated car. 

The two men — both big and imposing — then angrily con­fronted each other on Felicity street shortly before midnight. moments later, witnesses heard gunfire. smith was killed by bullets to the back and torso. his wife was wounded in the leg. 
Police arrived soon there­after, handcuffing hayes. as paramedics wheeled racquel smith away on a stretcher, her husband’s arm could be seen above his steering wheel, his body slumped partially outside his car. 
hayes, 28, was being held on $1 million bond after police ar­rested him on a charge of sec­ond-degree murder. he was in court monday as arrangements were made for a new lawyer to eventually replace Fuller, who will soon begin work as a tem­porary judge. Prosecutors now have 60 days to decide how to proceed. 
Police plan to add a charge accusing hayes of shooting racquel smith, spokesman Tyler gamble said monday. 
Fuller insisted outside court monday that hayes will be vindicated once the full story emerges. someone “besides my client” was behaving in a threat­ening manner, he said, though he wouldn’t say who. “my client has been pilloried, convicted and tried” by news media and social media, he added. 
In court, he got an order to preserve ballistic evidence. he wouldn’t say whether he 
PaId adVerTIsemenT 


believes two guns were fired. 
Questions remain about what exactly happened that night. Police haven’t released the ac­counts of racquel smith, the passengers in the other cars, nor any other witnesses. 
gamble said the investiga­tion prevents him from saying whether hayes called 911 to re­port a hit-and-run accident. 
The news was hard on many who had closely followed smith’s career. 
The Queens, new york, native came to new Orleans from Ohio state where he was on the 2002 national championship team, and quickly became a team leader, saints’ play-by-play an­nouncer Jim henderson said monday. 
“he played with great lever­age and such great passion and such incredible power that he was there for you day after day after day, game after game,” henderson said. 
smith created his share of football highlights, particularly in the 2009 run to the super bowl, when he had 13 regular-season sacks — fifth best in the nFL that year. his postseason play included an interception of a kurt warner pass in a saints playoff victory over the arizona Cardinals. 
“he might do a little fist-bump or he might take a look at his bi­cep after a sack. but he wasn’t one to gloat on individual sta­tistics. he was a team leader,” henderson said. 
smith was preparing for his second season when hurricane katrina devastated new Orleans, southeast Louisiana and the mississippi gulf Coast in 2005. That season was dismal for the saints. The superdome, initially a refuge for thousands of people whose homes were submerged, was badly dam­aged. Forced to play the entire season on the road, they went 3-13, and some speculated the team might never return. 
Local radio broadcaster and talk show host eric asher said smith became a locker room leader after the storm, convinc­ing others that the 2006 season under new coach sean Payton and quarterback drew brees was about more than getting more wins on the field. 
“he had been in new Orleans before the storm. he’d dealt with the aftermath of the storm. he understood that football was really secondary here — this was about uplifting the entire region,” asher said. “he was al­ways a guy who was a leader on and off the field for this team.” 
Those ties endured after smith retired from football. he continued to live in subur­ban kenner with his wife and three children, coaching his son wynter’s football team while studying for a masters’ in business administration at the university of miami. 



W Lacrosse 
COnTInued FrOm Page 16 
back, managing to shrink northwestern’s lead to 3 roughly 10 minutes into the second half. notre dame’s offensive surge was led by the team’s leading scor­ers. Junior attack Cortney Fortunato paced the Irish with five goals, adding two assists to amount to a sev­en-point afternoon. Junior midfielders alex dalton and Casey Pearsall also scored two goals apiece for the Irish. 
senior midfielder hannah hartman spoke highly of her teammates, crediting the team’s offensive success in the second half to their abil­ity to facilitate communica­tion while on the field. 
“They are both extremely talented players and great leaders when it comes to communication on the of­fensive end,” hartman said. “Cortney, as a righty, and [senior] rachel [sexton], as a lefty, are able to work both sides of the field and get great looks.” 
unofrtunately for the Irish, their second half of­fensive surge was not enough to close the gap.  For the re­mainder of the game, the wildcats seemed to have an offensive answer for every Irish opportunity, respond­ing to every Irish goal with one of their own. despite outshooting northwestern 16-10 in the second half and scoring nine second-half goals to northwestern’s eight, the Irish simply ran out of time and found them­selves unable to finish off the comeback. 
sunday’s loss established the Irish’s first losing streak of the year – they dropped their conference matchup against north Carolina the weekend before. despite the setback, hartman spoke of the series of difficult match-ups as an opportunity for the team to grow. 
“we have a very high strength of schedule,” hartman said, “so every week, regardless if it’s an aCC opponent or an out-of­conference opponent, it’s a tough game. we approach games with a focus on us. Our schedule has challenged us and definitely caused us to grow as a team.” 
The Irish have three games remaining on their regular season schedule before heading to blacksburg, Virginia, for the aCC tournament at the end of april – which means that the team’s senior lead­ership is rapidly approach­ing the conclusion to their final season. hartman claimed the rapidly con­cluding schedule provided further motivation for the team to redouble their ef­forts – particularly amongst the upperclassmen. 


“The better we play on the field, the longer we get to compete, and the longer we stay here with our team­mates,” hartman said, “so it’s pretty easy to stay fo­cused when the end is in sight. It’s emotional, but it’s also exciting knowing that this team can be to­gether until memorial day weekend.” 
The Irish are in a good position to finish off their most successful season ever in their short tenure in the aCC. They are set to host no. 15 duke (9-5, 4-1 aCC) next sunday for the conclusion of their conference schedule. a win over the blue devils would earn the Irish their highest placement in the conference since their join­ing in 2013. 
The Irish will next face the blue devils on saturday at noon at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
Brooks 
COnTInued FrOm Page 16 
during her time at burbank high school, brooks batted .450 or better her sophomore through senior seasons, in­cluding 12 home runs during her sophomore campaign. when weighing her decision on where to attend college, brooks said she was looking for a school with strong tra­dition and support network. 
“[I] definitely [liked] the coaching staff,” brooks said. “Just the tradition of the school and the great alum­ni association we have and the academic excellence our school has, it’s a very pres­tigious school. To be a part of that with a great softball team is the number one thing I wanted.” 
hitting is not brooks’ only strength. The freshman was also an accomplished pitch­er in high school and looks to bring that aspect of her game to notre dame. 
brooks surpassed both 80 wins and 1,000 strikeouts in her four years at burbank high school, along with a 
0.66 era her senior year. at notre dame, brooks has ap­peared in eight games and has a 4.38 era in her 16 in­nings of work. 
at notre dame, brooks joins a talented freshman class that has been the driv­ing force for the 20th-ranked Irish. second baseman ali wester, third baseman melissa rochford and catch­er maddie mcCracken have all started at least 23 games for the Irish this year, and brooks said she thinks the 

PaId adVerTIsemenT freshman class is doing a good job so far. 
“I think the entire fresh­man class has been doing great and representing,” brooks said. “I think we’ll just keep it up and keep going.” 
The key to that suc­cess? well, it comes back to dancing. 
“we get along really well,” brooks said. “we have a lot of fun together and if you can do that, you’re golden.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

PaId adVerTIsemenT 






of one of its most productive Baseball players, junior infielder kyle 
COnTInued FrOm Page 16 
Fiala. 

after a torrid 2015 in which usual cycle. Last week, notre he led the Irish in batting dame was forced to can-average, hits and starts, cel a midweek game against Fiala got off to a rough start Valparaiso, which was re-in 2016, hitting .175 in the scheduled for wednesday, early going before injuring and then two of three against his hand after being hit by a miami. and when the Irish pitch against Louisville on and the hurricanes did fi-march 12. but he made his nally play, sophomore return against miami this starters right-hander Peter past weekend, going 1-for-3 solomon and left-hander at the plate with a walk while sean guenther both pitched. fielding a clean game at third 
as a result, aoki said he base. plans to trot out several dif-as is the case with any ferent pitchers in quick suc-player returning from injury, cession against Chicago state Fiala’s biggest challenge will in hopes of getting them all be getting back up to speed work. with the game, aoki said. 
“we’ll probably give [junior “we just got to get him back right-hander ryan] smoyer in there. he needs to get his an inning or two just to kin-timing back. he needs an op­da get him back out there. portunity to see some pitch-he was kinda the odd man ing,” aoki said. “[miami] was out this weekend,” aoki said. his first real game action and “Ideally we’d like to be able I thought he looked good out to get a lot of these guys who there. he’ll be fine. kyle’s a haven’t pitched in a while. … great competitor, and he’ll we’ll likely do it by some sort find a way.” of design and then we’ll do Tuesday’s game will mark what we need to do at the end the third straight season and of the game.” second at Frank eck stadium 
among the other pitchers in which notre dame has aoki said he wanted to see faced Chicago state. The on the mound Tuesday, sev-Irish cruised past the eral have pitched fewer than Cougars 11-0 last year, with 10 innings on the season, three pitchers combining to including sophomore right-three-hit Chicago state. all-hander Charlie Vorsheck, time, notre dame leads the coach here, which lets me me because I’m just rooting 
Giesting 

use facilities, train, weight for them, I never get to root freshman right-hander matt series 30-2. 
COnTInued FrOm Page 16 

room and it’s been good to for them while I’m in the right-hander Jake shepski. notre dame and Chicago Vierling and sophomore First pitch between 
be able to use my home turf race with them. Just cheer-Vierling and shepski have state is scheduled for 6:05 
there and run as well as I for another year or so, be-ing for them to run well, it’s still made an impact for the p.m. Tuesday at Frank eck 
can on those three days of cause I’m just so comfort-really weird, I’m not used to Irish at the plate though. The stadium, the seventh in an 
competition in July ... I real-able being here.” it yet. I still want to be out two are third and fourth on 11-game homestand for the 
ly have that to look forward back at the school where there running with them.” the team in rbIs, respec-Irish. 
to.” he holds five school records, and while giesting can’t tively, and their offensive 
and the batesville, giesting said he enjoys men-go back in time and don the firepower has helped notre Contact Greg Hadley at  
Indiana, native is well on toring the current track ath-Irish uniform as a player, dame to weather the absence ghadley@nd.edu 
his way. On march 19 and letes, both as a coach and as becoming a track coach is a 20, giesting took part in a friend. career he has considered. the IaaF world champion-“I get to see them almost “I think about it some-ships in Portland, Oregon. everyday in practice and times,” giesting said. “I get giesting raced in the 4x400-work with them, which is to work with [Irish head meter relay and led the great,” giesting said. “They coach alan] Turner, who’s united states to a world respond pretty well to train-an unbelievable coach. he championship, completing ing with me, or to things I makes a lot of great ath­the third leg of the relay in have to say, a lot of them joke letes even better. It’s always 
45.34 seconds. around with me too, since something I keep in mind, I 
giesting’s solid perfor-we’re more friends, I just have saved a lot of the work­mance should give him mo-graduated so they see me outs I’ve done in prepara­mentum heading into the as a teammate still. It’s re-tion of, ‘hey maybe I do Olympic trials in July, but he ally cool when I get to watch want to do this someday,’ said that his biggest advan-them race and sit back and and I’ll need something to tage may be his connection tell them, ‘oh I think you did work with. so I’ve saved a lot to his alma mater. this,’ or, ‘you’re race looked of workouts just in case. but 
since he’s graduated, the good, work on this.’ same I’m not sure, I’m definitely former Irish sprinter has things in practices too, if going to stick in the sport. I stayed on at notre dame as it looked like they’re tiring love it too much that I’m go-a volunteer track coach and out, I can tell them, ‘hey, ing to do something in the while he said the change of relax on this point in the sport, whether it’s coach-pace is pronounced, the op-workout and hit it hard here’ ing or in the industry side of portunity to train in a famil-and try to push them a little things.” iar environment has been a bit to get them better...I get Of course, for the time be-boost for him. to sit back watch for once.” ing, giesting’s main focus 
“It’s a lot different,” In addition to joking with is on rio de Janeiro and the giesting said. “especially his former teammates, 2016 Olympics. coming from notre dame giesting said another plus “It’s basically 2016 and where a lot of the course-to his new job is his ability then reevaluate for 2020 work is pretty tough, it’s to cheer on his friends in olympic trials, just take it nice to get away from all that ways he couldn’t before. four years at a time.” and be able to focus just on “I’m so used to run-and if giesting’s four years running. and it’s nice that ning two or three events at notre dame are any indi­my coaches and the people at a meet, just running all cation, an Olympic appear-in the athletic department the time, running relays,” ance may not be far-fetched. have allowed me to train giesting said. “watching here still. I’m helping out them run and seeing them Contact Marek Mazurek at the team, I’m a volunteer do a relay together is fun for mmazurek@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nOrThwesTern 17, nd 12 
Comeback bid falls short against perennial rival 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
notre dame staged a second-half comeback but ultimately fell short at northwestern on sunday, dropping their second match in a row. 
The no. 10 Irish (10-4, 3-3 aCC) scored the first two goals of the game before the wildcats (6-6, 1-1 big Ten) reeled off five in a row, bringing the score to 5-2 in favor of the home team roughly twelve minutes into the opening half. The Irish answered with their third and final goal of the half six minutes later, but struggled to create any more offense beyond that. The wildcats managed four more goals in the following 18 minutes, bringing a formidable 9-3 lead into halftime. 
despite the early defi­cit, though, the Irish fought 
see w LaCrOsse PAGE 14 


BASEBALL 
nd to welcome Chicago state 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
when notre dame takes the field at Frank eck stadium on Tuesday night, the Irish will be just a little more than 48 hours removed from their last home game. 
but the circumstances will be dramatically different. 
For one, it will likely not rain for seven innings straight as it did sunday. The forecast calls for clear skies and temperatures in the mid-40s. 
more importantly, no. 1 miami (Fla.) will no longer fill the visitors’ dugout af­ter hammering the Irish (16­12, 6-7 aCC) for a 10-2 win sunday. 
In the hurricanes’ place, Chicago state, a team that has lost 13 of its last 15 games, will challenge notre dame. according to rPI rat­ings, Chicago state (7-23, 1-8 waC) ranks 285th out of 300 programs in the nation, the lowest of any Irish opponent this season. 
The Cougars will certainly be a significant step down in competition compared to a miami program that has College world series aspira­tions and future pro players, but Irish coach mik aoki said he has cautioned his players against presuming an easy victory. 
“we’re playing at a high level. we need to continue to do that,” aoki said. “we talk about never overestimat­ing an opponent and never underestimating one either. This is a good case-in-point of that. … you play a team like Chicago state, which you could potentially under­estimate because they are struggling, but every day is different. every day presents its challenges.” 
aoki and the Irish will also have to deal with a pitching rotation well off its 
see basebaLL PAGE 15 
ND SOFTBALL 

brooks, freshmen spur Irish success 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
as the rain forced a delay in sunday afternoon’s game at melissa Cook stadium, notre dame and Pittsburgh players alike evacuated the dugouts and congregated near home plate. 
The players exchanged snacks and before long, a dance competition began as rihanna’s “work” blared from the loudspeakers. 
after the pow wow broke up, the Irish players drifted back towards the home dug­out, but the dancing contin­ued and right in the middle of it was freshman pitcher Caitlyn brooks. 
“we just had fun out there,” brooks said. “we were play­ing hangman and danc­ing and just having fun and keeping the energy up and that’s how we got through the rest of the game — just by a lot of energy.” 
dance moves aside, brooks has already made her mark on the team. she currently has the third most rbIs on the team with 34 and leads the Irish with and 15 walks and eight home runs, includ­ing a two-run blast in the bottom of the first inning of sunday’s contest against the Panthers. 
brooks also sports the fifth-highest batting aver­age on the team — .358 — in her 31 starts this season and said the key to her success has been her aggressive ap­proach at the plate. 
“I think just staying ag­gressive positive and keep­ing my mind positive the entire time,” brooks said. “[I’m] just looking for good pitches.” 
brooks’ success for the Irish this season should come as no surprise however. The burbank, California, na­tive was a national Fastpitch Coaches association (nFCa) third-team all-american in her senior year at burbank high school and made the nFCa all-west regional team both her junior and se­nior seasons. 
see brOOks PAGE 14 

WAKING THE ECHOES | ChrIs gIesTIng 
Giesting on pace to compete in Olympic trials 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 

Chris giesting’s list of collegiate accolades is long. Over the course of his four years at notre dame, giesting has won a national champion­ship for the 2012 distance medley relay, an aCC in­door title for the 400-me­ter sprint in 2014 and is a four-time first-team all-american. 
now, giesting is setting his sights higher: on a berth in the Olympics. 
“[my] long term [goal] is obviously the Olympic trails coming up this year,” giesting said. “everybody’s gunning for it. I’m looking good to make the trials, and the top 28 in the country make it. I’ve got a time posted that puts me [in the] top 28 easy right now. I should be able to hit the trials and run the race of my life kind of thing. get 
see gIesTIng PAGE 15 




