
The independenT newspaper serving noTre dame and sainT mary’s 


Professors explore foreign policy, election 
ND Votes “Pizza, Pop and Politics” hosts discussion on foreign policy issues in the presidential election 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
nd votes hosted their final installment of “pizza, pop, and politics” on Tuesday night with michael desch, professor of political science, and mary ellen o’connell, the robert and marion short professor of law and research professor of in­ternational dispute resolution, speaking on issues of foreign policy related to the 2016 u.s. presidential election. 
desch began by speaking on domestic public sentiment on united states foreign policy. 
“The message in 2014 and 2015 is that there is a signifi­cant uptick in the public’s pri­oritization of domestic political issues, ” desch said. 
desch said this change in sentiment was largely due to “war weariness” and said american voters are much more skeptical of involvement in foreign conflicts. 
“american voters are asking the question, ‘what’s in it for us?’ They want to be persuaded that, if we go abroad in search of a monster, these are mon­sters that is in the interest of the united states to slay,” he said. 
desch also touched upon the seeming continuity between candidates of the major parties on issues of foreign policy. 
“clinton and cruz both be­lieve that the united states 
see policy PAGE 5 

GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer 
Michael Desch speaks Tuesday night in the Geddes Coffeehouse at the final “Pizza, Pop and Politics,” hosted by ND Votes. Desch discussed domestic public sentiment on United States foreign policy. 


Tryouts commence to replace nd leprechaun 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
news writer 
The pit in the Joyce center is full — but not crowded — Tuesday afternoon as notre dame cheerleaders set up mats and begin stretching. 
a tall, clean-shaven man with red hair walks in the door and begins analyzing the crowd. meet John doran, the notre dame leprechaun. The one on the cover of sports illustrated. 

“i was like, ‘wait, i’m going to be on the cover of sports illustrated?’ That’s every kid’s dream,” doran said. 
This day, however, is not about doran, nor is this week. Today is about getting one step closer to finding doran’s replacement as the no. 1, or gold squad, leprechaun. 
mingling with the cheer­leaders are the three candi­dates who hope to take up doran’s mantle: Tom hellios, Joe fennessy and mitchell meersman. 
fennessy and meersman are veterans of the tryout process, as the two are cur­rently leprechauns for the blue and green squad, re­spectively. fennessy, a sophomore, said having the experience of going through the often enigmatic tryouts 
see leprechaun PAGE 4 




Speaker analyzes healthcare deficiencies, Ebola 
in health, gave a lecture entitled,

By JENNA WILSON 

news writer “Taking up the challenge of poverty: why accompaniment 
staff, stuff, systems and space. matters” that tackled the com-Those are the four things paul plexities of the ebola outbreak farmer said are necessary in or-and accompaniment, which con­der to combat infectious patho-sists of long-term health care pro-gens in healthcare deficient areas. vision on the community-based 
on Tuesday, farmer, a physi-level. cian, anthropologist, chief strat­egist and cofounder of partners see farmer PAGE 5 

Students reflect on academic accomodations 
By CATHERINE OWERS and HALEIGH EHMSEN 
senior news writers 
Editor’s note: This is the third day in a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s story examines students’ experiences with academic ac­commodations at the University and the College. 
megan crowley, a freshman at notre dame, has pompe disease, which progressively weakens muscles. 
Editor’s note: Crowley spoke to The Observer with the assistance of her nurse, Debbie Larsen, who is quoted below. 
crowley said when she was looking at colleges, she specifi­cally looked at the accommoda­tions available at notre dame. 
“when she’s taking an exam, she gets double the time. not because she has trouble pro­cessing the information — it just takes her a very long time to write it down,” larsen said. “The other thing was to have it in a room where you’re not disturbing your classmates, basically, by taking the test and taking such a long time.” 
in lecture-style classes, crowley said she has note tak­ers to supplement her own notes. in discussion-based classes, crowley speaks and her statement is repeated by the caretaker accompanying her. 
“if by any means that person is gone or leaves, she does have a friend in the class that can translate if necessary,” larsen said. “but she thinks that if no­body was with her, she wouldn’t be called on. They just wouldn’t want to have difficulty under­standing her, or embarrassing her, and she understands that.” 
Junior grace agolia, who is deaf and uses a cochlear implant, said accommoda­tions offered through the sara bea center for students with disabilities played a role in her decision to attend notre dame. 
“some colleges don’t have good offices of disability ser­vices, but notre dame’s is quite excellent. scott howland is the man. he is awesome, and so are all the other staff members at sara bea,” she said. 
agolia said she submitted an individualized education plan (iep), as well as documenta­tion from her audiologist, and met with the office at the be­ginning of the year to explain the sort of accommodations she required, which include carT (communication access realtime Translation). 
“The office of disability services here hires a company called michiana reporters 
see disabiliTy PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 baseball PAGE 16 sofTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com What is your favorite summer activity? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 


Allyson Slusser 
margaret hynds 

sophomore
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
                 Kayla mullen                      cristina gutierrez 

holy cross hall 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinkski 
“hanging out at the lake with 

Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
friends.” 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 



Alyssa Atkinson 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao 

junior 
Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper 

regina hall 
Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“going to the beach with friends.” 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 


Samantha Fairchild 
Editor-in-Chief 
senior 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
le mans hall 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
“not doing homework.” 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


Photo Desk Wednesday Thursday Friday 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



Anna Fiszer 
first year 
mccandless hall 
“sweating like a hog.” 

Emily Hawkins 
first year 
regina hall 
“playing softball with friends.” 

Alex Morales 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“painting outside.” 

Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saturday Sunday 
Systems & Web Administrators 

Softball vs. Mindful Meditation Holi Celebration Fisher Regatta Basilica Mass 
(574) 631-8839 

Valparaiso Coleman-Morse North Quad Saint Mary’s Lake Basilica of the Sacred Policies Melissa Cook Stadium Center 5:15 p.m. 12 p.m. Heart 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 

6 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Celebrating the Fisher Hall’s signature 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 

The Irish take on the Open to students, festival of colors and event fundraises for Sunday Mass with the 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the Crusaders. faculty and staff. the arrival of spring. St. Adalbert’s. Liturgical Choir. administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 


MFA Thesis Readings Lecture, “Critique or “As You Like it” SUB Spring Concert: “As You Like it” 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the DeBartolo Performing Dialogue” DeBartolo Performing All-American Rejects DeBartolo Performing majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
Arts Center DeBartolo Hall Arts Center Stepan Center Arts Center 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 

7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. 2:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. Creative writing Discussion of World premiere, based SUB’s annual spring World premiere, based viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
students speak. humanist inquiry. on Shakespeare. concert. on Shakespeare. 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 

GreeND hosts sustainability festival 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one of a national day dedicated to climate but also several other clubs and com-
semester. By ANDREA VALE 

The observer is published at: news writer change called Know Tomorrow. The munity members, including the sierra 
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 

club hopes to hold a festival on campus club, nd energy, fossil free nd, 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 

posTmasTer greend, in collaboration with several once every semester. vegnd, the office of sustainability, and 
send address corrections to: The observer 

other campus and community groups “when we first heard about Know the several vendors and performers who 
p.o. box 779 

024 south dining hall centered around sustainable develop-Tomorrow, we had no idea what kind of will be at the festival. 
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. ment, will host a sustainability festival event we wanted to put on, or even what “what we hope arises from this event 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

on friday featuring several activities Know Tomorrow was all about,” veres is our sense of community, educa­and products in support of environ-said. “but we figured it out. it was a pret-tion and commitment to the earth and mentalism and sustainability. ty big trial and error process, but it was its inhabitants,” veres said, “we are a 

“we’ve started thinking about this so crazy successful — we bought mate-network of passion, and we truly want since our last festival in early october,” rials for over 100 crafts and were out in everyone to feel that same love for the 
News Sports 

selena ponio ben padanilam abigail veres, greend director of com-the first 15 minutes – that we knew we environment that we feel.” andrea vale victoria llorens 
muncations, said in an email. “over the had to do this again.” greend member grace mcnamee 
Justine wang 

past few months, Tessa [clarizio, presi-according to clarizio and veres, this said the goal of the festival is to unite 
Graphics Scene 

dent of greend], the other leaders and year’s festival will include a farmer’s a variety of clubs on campus and bring 
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 

i have spent nights abuzz with ideas to market, opportunities for students to local farmer’s markets together to cel-
Photo Viewpoint 

make this the best fair to date and we get more involved in environmental ad-ebrate earth day. 
grace Tourville bianca almada 

keep coming up with awesome ideas. i vocacy and environmentally-themed “we want people to get involved in credit that to the amazingly thoughtful crafts and games, including face paint-these clubs and be proactive on mak­members of the club, who always think ing, potting plants, handprint tree art, ing this campus more sustainable,” 
Corrections 

about ways to make notre dame a bet-a grab-n-go giveaway, collages, chalk, mcnamee said. 
The observer regards itself as ter place [by] thinking of others before bubbles, a photo booth, a scavenger “all are welcome,” veres said. “it’s a professional publication and 
themselves. we are so excited about the hunt, an acoustic concert and food, family-friendly, stay for a minute or the strives for the highest standards 
fest that we can barely think about any-clothing and jewelry vendors. full two hours, and you don’t have to 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

thing else.” “i hope it will inspire participants to be a hippie to come. it’s open to every 
however, recognize that we will make 

according to greend president Tessa incorporate sustainable choices in their single person.” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

clarizio, the inaugural sustainabil-everyday life,” clarizio said. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so ity festival was held on campus last se-according to veres, the festival is the Contact Andrea Vale at 
we can correct our error. mester as part of an effort to take part result of the efforts of not only greend, avale@nd.edu 


in the classroom,” she said. “it 
Disability 
appears on an ipad on my desk, 
conTinued from page 1 
and the transcripts are sent to me after class. They’re confi­
—
 basically court stenographers dential transmissions, so no one 

— 
who come in and they type, in else gets to see them, just me, real time, everything that is said just in case i miss something in 





class.” 
agolia said she also uses an fm system, “which consists of a teacher-worn microphone, and a receiver, that i plug into my co­chlear implant.” 
“it amplifies the teacher’s voice and transmits that ampli­fication directly to my cochlear implant, so no one hears the amplification but me,” she said. “it’s really nice if the teacher’s back is turned, or if there is some background noise going on. it helps me to hear what they’re saying better.” 
agolia said she also receives extended time on tests because of delayed auditory processing. 
“This is something a lot of people don’t understand. They look at me, they [say], ‘oh you do fine hearing one-on-one conversations, you seem to do really well in class, all these things. plus, the exam is visual, it’s written — why do you need extended time for that if your disability is a hearing one?’” she said. “The thing is, with audi­tory processing, the way my co­chlear implant works with my brain, the auditory processing is always delayed. 
“you are going to hear some­thing much sooner than i’m going to hear something. so i probably have a five second de­lay because my brain is always asking, ‘is this what i heard?’ and then it’s asking, ‘what is this information about?’ so the processing comes a second later because the focus is on the ac­tual hearing.” 
although her accommodation requests have been consistent over time, agolia said she did not have carT until she came to notre dame. 
“The college environment 
— the classes are a lot bigger at notre dame — so it was go­ing to be harder for me to hear other people in the classroom, especially people behind me, because i like to sit in the front row, to hear,” she said. “also, if i just had the fm system and tak­ing notes, i’m basically trying to write down what i’m hearing. 
“all the processing of the in­formation comes a lot later, so it is helpful to have carT there to do some of the notetaking for me. and especially if it’s stuff that i can’t hear, so that later i can look at it and say, ‘That makes sense now.’” 
classes involving group dis­cussions are difficult, agolia said, because she is always look­ing at the transcript displayed in front of her. 
“sometimes the transcript is not always accurate, and that’s just something you have to deal with because it’s a phonetic key­board. sometimes i can figure it out, based on the phonetic spelling of the sounds, but still by the time i read it and then figure it out, the discussion has already moved to the next per­son, so it’s a constant game of playing catch-up,” she said. “it is more difficult, especially when i want to make a contribution to the discussion and think of something much later, and the discussion has already moved on — it’s awkward to share that.” 
agolia said the majority of her professors and classmates have been very understanding of her requests for accommodations. 
"i have had one or two teach­ers who have not been as open to certain aspects of the accom­modations, which was an issue for me, and it was difficult to deal with. we eventually were able to reach a compromise, but it was still hard on my end because i had to put extra time into the class and that took away time from other things,” she said. 
elizabeth anthony, a senior with autoimmune conditions, said her professors have been very understanding of her re­quest for accommodations. 
“There have been a couple of times when i’ve had to have very frank conversations, like, ‘i’m sorry, i’m horribly sick and this is why, and i can’t do this,’” she said. “and they’ve always been really understanding. i’ve been really impressed at how many of my professors have taken a very personal interest in me, or have, once i told them, been so supportive, which has been awesome.” 
ross Kloeber, a first-year law student who is hard of hearing, said his experience with dis­ability services has been very positive and “pretty straightfor­ward,” though the availability of resources has not been promi­nently advertised. 
“There’s not a lot of outreach 
— it’s not necessarily different than anywhere else,” he said. “There might have been an email or something like that, but they’re not going to come find you — you have to go to them.” 
Kloeber said the accommoda­tions he receives as a law stu­dent are of better quality than those he received at his under­graduate institution. 
“i don’t know how much of that is because the accommo­dations are getting better or the actual services the school pro­vides,” he said. 
fiona van antwerp, a sopho­more with dyslexia, said the disabilities resource office (dro) at saint mary’s played a large role in her college choice. 
“a lot of schools couldn’t guar­antee accommodations, some big, some small,” van antwerp said. 
when she met iris giamo, di­rector of the dro, van antwerp said she felt comfortable saint mary’s would be a good fit and she would receive the educa­tional accommodations she needed. 
“iris made that transition very smooth with note takers, time-and-a-half on tests and a separate room for testing,” she said. 
van antwerp said she also records classes and uses audio-books to learn material. 
“i maybe have to work two times harder to get the ‘a,’ but the accommodations don’t give me a leg up,” she said. 
she said most professors are very willing and able to work with her, but because teaching styles differ, van antwerp said she has had to advocate for her­self and realize when she needs accommodations. one profes­sor allowed her to record the classes and answer the essay tests orally instead of writing the essays. 
van antwerp said she learned to compensate for her dyslexia in high school because she didn’t have a resource like giamo. 
“i had a lot of tutoring when i was little to teach me tools to combat my disability,” she said. 
it wasn’t until the end of her high school career, van antwerp said, that her school created a learning center for students with disabilities. 
“so i learned how to advocate for myself in the classroom in high school,” she said. “during tests, people would ask me why i wasn’t in the room and i would tell them i receive ac­commodations. They would say ‘really? you look smart.’ people didn’t understand. i’m not dumb.” 
van antwerp said she has be­come very comfortable talking about her disability. 
“There will always be kids who doubt you, but you just have to shake it off,” she said. “sometimes other students are frustrated because they think educational accommodations make it easier.” 
bridget dedelow, a senior who has cerebral palsy, said the academic environment at saint mary’s encouraged her to explore disability in a nonfic­tion writing class. 
“honestly, i wasn’t going to at first. it’s funny, because, with nonfiction, you think you’re telling other people’s stories,” she said. “i wanted to write other people’s stories and the project was setting itself up to be about geek culture.” 
professors encouraged her to include herself in her writing project, dedelow said, and she realized the connection be­tween her interest in gaming and her disability. 
“i didn’t want to be defined by my disability, and i was ner­vous about exposing myself to these people that might not understand,” she said. “but writing about my disability was definitely a freeing experi­ence, and an exercise in trust­ing myself and trusting my ability.” 
Through the revision pro­cess, dedelow said she tried to find a balance of telling stories about geek culture and femi­nism, while incorporating her own acceptance of her disabil­ity through gaming. 
“my comp [class] was the first time i wrote peacefully and with humor,” dedelow said. “i’ve had some angry writing in my life.” 
News writers Megan Valley and Madison Jaros contributed to this story. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu and  Haleigh Ehmsen at  hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Leprechaun 
conTinued from page 1 
process is helpful. 
“it’s a lot easier knowing what’s going on, for sure,” fennessy said. “it’s a lot more fun, too. you can really enjoy it, enjoy the pro­
“You should 
definitely be 
outgoing ... You 
shouldn’t be 
uncomfortable in 
front of crowds 
... You should 
be gracious. 
You should 
be passionate 
-definitely passionate.” 
Mitchell Meersman 
junior 
cess, enjoy the spontaneity. … This year’s fun. it’s cool talking to the new leprechauns trying out. it’s fun waiting till the end of practice where they have the leprechauns do the spontaneous stuff with dancing and singing or mock pep rallies and stuff like that.” 
when fennessy mentions dancing, he isn’t kidding: at the tryouts, the potential leprechauns watch as the other cheerleaders practice lifts, but at the end of the session, each leprechaun is led out in front of the cheerleaders to perform a mock pep-rally routine. 
hellios, also a sophomore, is trying out for the first time, yet he said he feels comfortable knowing he has the support of the team and of his fellow leprechauns, even if it is a little unorthodox. 
“as the leprechaun, you’re going to be out there, in front of people, and they need to make sure you represent the university 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ ndsmcobserv­er 

well,” hellios said. “i think part of that is being able to think on your feet and act accordingly. when you’re in front of a crowd of people, it’s easy to get ner­vous. i think part of that putting you on the spot, making you feel awkward now is to see how you’ll react in front of a big crowd.” 
“a lot of it’s sort of to try to get you out there and see how you do and then when you’re done, they’re like good job man,” doran said. “They’ll bring you in like a brother and [be] sup­portive afterwards, but at first it’s like, ‘alright, let’s see how he does. let’s see if he can fend for himself.’ and then once you’re back it’s like, ‘That was great.’” 
as the three men come out and perform their routines, they start chants, they give funny anec­dotes, and they urge the watch­ing cheerleaders to come out and cheer on the irish against stanford, the example opponent used. 
“you should definitely be out­going, That goes without saying,” meersman, a junior, said. “you shouldn’t be uncomfortable in front of crowds. ... you should be gracious. you should be passion­ate — definitely passionate, that drives a lot of what i do. you have to bring your enthusiasm and channel that through other peo­ple and a lot of that comes with how passionate you are.” 
doran’s replacement will be fi­nalized friday, the last day of try­outs, and the graduating senior had some advice for the succes­sors to the venerated tradition. 
“enjoy every single minute of it, because it flew by,” doran said. “Know that you’re going to be able to make people’s days. some people come here once in a lifetime to watch a football game. and if they meet you, it’s like the greatest thing ever. don’t forget to appreciate that, that you get to be here for four years and be an extension of the school.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 







Farmer 
conTinued from page 1 
“every single one of the docu­mented ebola outbreaks since 1976 have the same story,” farmer said. “They are all due to poor infection control. even the most recent outbreak, the story is the same. They simply don’t have the staff, the stuff, the space or the systems to stop the epidemic.” 
farmer said the ebola epi­demic is primarily focused in liberia, sierra leon and guinea. according to farmer, ebola is a type of zoonosis pathogen, meaning it is an animal patho­gen that ends up in humans. he said these pathogens, which can adapt to multiple hosts, often lead to death. 
“why these three countries and no others? all the neighbor­ing countries were effected — but not a lot. why? These countries were uniquely vulnerable be­cause of the extraordinarily weak health systems that collapsed not only because of wars, but because of extractive institutes that did not feel the need to rein­vest in health and education,” he said. 

in order to contain ebola, farmer said the worldwide re­sponse has largely been segrega­tion, which is inefficient. 
“This ‘control-only’ paradigm is the one that we only advance officially, as the world, to stop ebola. The focus was on isola­tion, containment, quarantine and segregating those who fall ill,” he said. “if you’re putting people put into a holding room with no proper food and water … of course they are going to perish.” 

according to farmer, those infected with ebola often do not seek medical attention, as they know that the hospital will be largely understaffed and unable to provide effective treatment. Therefore, farmer said, fam­ily members often end up taking care of the sick. 
“it’s a concentric cycle of caregiving without proper ac­companiment. it’s not caregiv­ing in improper fashion — it’s that these people need accom­paniment to care for the sick and help bury the dead,” he said. “This is a big problem. a ‘disease-control’ only para­digm that did not have caregiv­ing in the middle of it was the main reason that ebola stayed at home … it’s because people knew they would end up in hor­rible places [like understaffed medical centers]. 
“accompaniment is not just about being a nice person; it’s about having expert mercy linked to pragmatic solidarity. This is a technical matter, but it is not enough to have a technoc­racy,” he said. “we need to have compassionate, merciful and just healthcare systems, and that is part of accompaniment.” 
farmer also said emergency responses to epidemics never lead to health system strength­ening, training, capacity build­ing or research, which are critical to ensuring that an epi­demic does not occur again. 
“surely there has to be prog­ress, and we have to get better about thinking of health system strengthening,” farmer said. “These matters are regarded as not urgent enough [dur­ing epidemics]. but, nothing is more important then building a health system that prevents people from falling ill or dying in the first place.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 



Policy 
conTinued from page 1 
should continue to pursue a policy of maintaining u.s. leadership globally,” he said. 
desch also mentioned the abil­ity of anti-establishment candi­dates to shake up the traditional stances of the united states on for­eign policy. 
“[it is interesting] how well the anti-establishment candi­dates, who i would characterize as donald Trump and senator sanders, have done by flaunt­ing some of the foreign policy standards that have dominated american political discourse for 30 or 40 years,” desch said. “Just the other day, senator sanders gave a speech in brooklyn, new york that was heavily critical of israel.” 
o’connell spoke on the foreign policy topics she believes the next president should pursue and said she was inspired by issues brought to the forefront by pope francis. she said addressing issues related to the environment and climate change are important in order to help alleviate struggle abroad. 
“if we want to have prosper­ity for ourselves in this country, we must do something about the environment.  we must be in­novative, we must lead. The next president must really become the first green president,” o’connell said. 
improving the environment can help advance human rights causes — an area she believes the united states has fallen behind recently, she said. she also em­phasized that a reprioritization of priorities was necessary. 
“abroad, the united states tries to promote itself as the country with the most military force,” she said. “The next president could truly lead in a way that makes [the] greatest sense for your future if he or she begins to revalue what really counts.” 
o’connell said foreign policy today comes with less than desir­able tradeoffs, but concluded on an optimistic note regarding the potential good that could be ac­complished as a result of a shift in foreign policy. 
“we can have the concept of living in a community with, dare i say … love be[ing] the basis on which we all live together,” she said. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 
Jess is not a mess 

Martha Reilly 
associate saint mary’s editor 
nobody won the powerball lottery on feb. 10, but i hit the jackpot that day when milo ventimiglia announced his plans to star in the revival of “gilmore girls.” 
he will resume his role as the infamous Jess mariano, best remembered for his impulsive decisions, witty repartee and leather jacket. many “gilmore girls” viewers detest Jess, citing the reckless behavior and rude attitude he demonstrates throughout seasons two and three — not revealing his high school drop­out status to his sweet uncle luke, running away from stars hollow without even bidding his loyal girlfriend farewell, returning months later and expressing his irrevocable love for rory, only to peace out yet again. 
The initial presentation of Jess as a bad boy severely contrasts with the promising first glimpses fans see of main character rory’s other love interests, dean forester and logan huntzberger. for this reason, some viewers immediately develop unfavorable opinions of Jess. so even when he undergoes major character progression between seasons four and six, viewers fail to recognize him as rory’s perfect match. dean and logan, on the other hand, evolve backwards, starting off as dreamy and reliable boyfriends but ending up as a cheater and a demanding ultimatum-issuer, respectively. 
rory and Jess share an intellectual con­nection that her other relationships do not even come close to matching, and he believes in her potential and sincerely wants her to pursue her dreams. upon discovering that, in his absence, rory has dropped out of yale, moved in with her grandparents and joined the daughters of the american revolution, Jess confronts her about this uncharacteristic behavior, motivating her to return to school. he reacts angrily to these changes in her life because he values her ability to excel and wants to help her rediscover her aspirations, for he knows her so well. 
meanwhile, logan takes advantage of her vulnerable state, sitting idly by as his once ambitious girlfriend forgoes almost all of her passions and even convincing her to act cra­zily and steal a boat with him. not only does logan not empower rory like Jess does, but he also clearly does not know her as well, for he thinks she would enjoy being proposed to at a graduation party in front of her grandparents. 
while logan encounters legal trouble and dean acts unfaithfully to his wife, Jess man­ages to turn his life around, publishing the book he always dreamed of. he even admits to rory that he could not have accomplished this goal without her, reinforcing that she plays an integral role in his life even after their breakup. 
ventimiglia’s appearance in the upcoming episodes of the show will hopefully reinforce rory and Jess’s status as soul mates, but if not, i will rest assured in my knowledge that where rory leads, Jess is meant to follow. 
Contact Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Nothing gold can stay 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

This is my last viewpoint column. The last show of “pride and prejudice” was on sunday, marking my fi­nal theatrical performance at notre dame. i finished my senior program of liberal studies thesis about the orpheus myth back in february. my time at the university of notre dame seems to be officially com­ing to an end. 
it’s official. i’m going to cry at graduation. 
in a way, it’s a beautiful thing that i am going to miss this place so much. notre dame has been my home for four years. it was hard to say goodbye to my parents when i left home to come here, and now it’s going to be dreadfully hard to take my leave of this place. i suppose i want to use my last viewpoint to reflect on what i’ve done here. 
i’d like to say i’m going to leave a legacy here. but the funny and wonderful thing about college is that in the next four years, i am going to become obso­lete here. in the next four years will come another group of college students who have no idea who i am, whom i didn’t reach through the stage or through my writing (yes, i am making myself seem bigger than i am; i’m not even sure my roommates read my col­umn anymore). 
but as i walk around campus and i look at the golden dome, i realize that it is less about what i have done for the university, and more about what the university has done for me. if any of you hate sappi­ness, i would suggest you stop reading now. 
as i walked around campus on sunday, i went to see all of my favorite spots. 
cavanaugh hall was my home for three years. section 2b — Tall megan, bianca, emma, little megan, christina, Jessica, melanie, miranda, annika, hannah, my roommates shannon and madison — will always be my first memories of notre dame. They are the main reason i stayed at this school (although if they hadn’t been into my one direction obsession, it might have been a different story). 
There was the night we decorated our entire section in harry potter colors, because we are gi­ant nerds who were thrilled about the Triwizard Tournament-themed section competition. There was the night my roommates and i named our fan mandrake because of the weird noises it was mak­ing, only to discover that it was actually the fur­nace (actually, we always named one of our terrible appliances). 
These are stories i bring up time and time again. room 252, otherwise known as the room of requirement, was a place where i could always find comfort and support (as well as some well-aimed snark), and for that, madison and shannon, i will be forever grateful. 
o’shaughnessy. i can’t say i love that building, but the people inside it, specifically in the rooms of 214 and 210, have been some of my favorites. 
i remember the day i sat across from a girl with curly hair, and thought she was way too cool to hang out with me. now that girl is one of my closest friends, and i thank god i have had betsy in every seminar throughout my four years here. 
The entire pls community reminds me every day what having terrific, smart and amazingly talented people surrounding you can really do for your self-esteem. every day in class i constantly marvel at the excellence that exists there, and i want to thank every single one of them for putting up with my at­tempts at witty one-liners. 
The professors in pls have pushed me beyond what i thought was possible, and they have shaped me for the better, although sometimes they wish i’d just shut up. i might even miss o’shag, or at least the posters on the wall. 
dpac has taken so many hours of my life away, but they have all been so worth it. dpac has probably generated the most growth out of me, as i went from someone who did acting for fun to someone who is pursuing it as her career for the rest of her life. 
The plays, and the casts, who have put up with my weirdness, my obsessive compulsive behavior and my constant singing, have been some of my best memories. 
especially the cast of “pride and prejudice,” you have made my last semester on the decio mainstage one that i will always remember. i love you all to the moon and back. 
and as i stopped at the lakes, the grotto, and the dome, i remember the times that aren’t tied to any particular building. 
my friends from my semester abroad in london — liz, claire, sarah — are the ones who stood by me at my worst and  my best. i am so lucky to have met you and i’m glad that we now have all our memories here at notre dame (especially late night finni’s). 
Then there are the memories with the random peo­ple who lifted me in the air during football games, the alumni who gave me free food at tailgates, the prospies this weekend who reminded me how inno­cent we all are as freshman. 
i owe them all a little bit of my experience, an ex­perience any alumna of notre dame has. They wel­comed me with open arms, and i now hope i can do the same to all who follow. 
i’m officially a part of the cult. Thank you, notre dame. love thee. xx 
Kitty Baker is a senior majoring in the program of  liberal studies and film, television and theatre. She is a proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at  cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


What is BridgeND? 
Roge Karma 
bridging the gap 
“The issue of wealth and income inequality is the great moral issue of our time, it is the great economic issue of our time and it is the great political issue of our time.” – senator bernie sanders 
while this semester bridgend focused our entire viewpoint column on the idea of income inequality, i would have to vehemently disagree with senator sanders. income inequality is not the great issue of our time. 
so then, what is? well, it’s not climate change or immigration or foreign policy or health care or any of the other issues we hear about in the news cycle or during presidential debates. 
The greatest issue of our time is political apathy. 
why? because foreign policy and climate change and immigration and income inequality do not matter if no one is talking about them. 
The most fundamental consequence of rep­resentative democracy is that government is a function of its polity — the voice of our nation is, in fact, the voice of us, its citizens. it follows that the relative importance of issues like income inequality, foreign policy and climate change is necessarily contingent on their place in our na­tional discourse. 
Thus, the extent to which we care enough about an issue to discuss it, to learn more about it, to write our representatives about it or to pro­test it is the extent to which it matters. 

so how does this relate to bridgend? 
The goal of bridgend is to combat political apathy at its roots by providing a forum on cam­pus in which students from across the ideologi­cal spectrum can come together in open and rigorous debate concerning the issues that mat­ter to them. 
bridgend is not about compromising on your beliefs or moderating them for the sake of politi­cal correctness. rather, it is about being willing to express your beliefs — no matter how extreme left, right, center or other they may be — and be­ing willing to engage in civil dialogue with those who disagree with you. 
when bridgend submitted mimi Teixeira’s highly controversial column “is income inequal­ity that bad?” (Jan. 27) and people doubted bridgend’s claim to political centrism, those people fundamentally misunderstood our core mission. 
at bridgend, the question we ask ourselves is not, “how can we develop a solution that democrats and republicans can agree on?” but rather, “how can we start a conversation?” 
our goal is to combat political apathy by ini­tiating a dialogue about important political issues during our meetings, in The observer and through various events. creating these con­versations is the necessary first step to solving the myriad of issues that face our nation to­day, issues for which our generation will be left responsible. 
so why am i telling you all of this now as we prepare for finals and summer vacation? 
The truth is that this column, at its core, is about starting a conversation — a conversation that cannot end here. 
political apathy is the greatest moral, social and political issue of our time and it is impera­tive that we, the students of notre dame, do our part to combat it. 
issues like income inequality and climate change and immigration are too important to our futures for us to ignore. and we, as students blessed with such an unparalleled spiritual and intellectual community here at notre dame, are in too important of a position in our lives to ig­nore them. 
Thus, my challenge to you, the students of notre dame, is to carry on the conversation into your dorms, through the dining halls and be­yond this beautiful campus as we disperse all over the globe come may. 
we are all called to this task no matter our ma­jor, religion or political affiliation, and it is our duty to our country to respond in kind. 
Roge Karma is a sophomore political science major living in Siegfried Hall. He is the President of BridgeND. He can be reached at rkarma@nd.edu 
BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum  together in discussions concerning public policy  issues. The viewpoints expressed in this article do not necessarily reflect the opinion of BridgeND, but are the individual opinions of the author. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter at  @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
student government Q&a: an introduction 
one of the complaints we’ve heard from stu­dents during the past few months is a clear lack of communication between students and ad­ministrators. students: we hear you and we will change it. 
we plan to fix this lack of communication through an interview series that will be posted on the student government website. with help and input from student groups on campus, i will interview administrators about issues related to our five platform pillars: community engage­ment, sexual assault, health and wellness, diver­sity and inclusion, and sustainability. 
our first interview was with scott malpass, the university’s chief investment officer. during our interview, i asked scott to explain what the endowment does, how it functions and how it af­fects the student body. 
our conversation also touched on current hot topics, such as fossil fuel divestment, which has become even more popular discussion following leading environmentalist bill mcKibben’s cam­pus visit. i got the opportunity to ask scott how the endowment approaches divestment strate­gies in general and with fossil fuel divestment, in particular. 
walking away from our talk, i left with three big takeaways. 
The endowment prides itself on its socially responsible investing (sri) policy. prior to our conversation, i was completely unaware of the stringent moral code the endowment adheres to in all its actions — catholic social Teaching per­vades every facet of the endowment. sometimes it’s difficult to combine fiduciary responsibility with moral responsibility, but the endowment has been extremely successful in doing both of these things. 
in the same vein, the endowment takes its partner relationships extremely seriously. The highest quality of partners are ensured through an intensive amount of background research be­fore initiating a partnership, and routine checks make sure a partner is performing at a high level in a manner aligned with the university’s core beliefs. i never knew the endowment turned down so many potentially lucrative partners due to its conviction to act in accordance with catholic social Teaching. 
finally, i discovered the complexities behind divestment strategies that aren’t always ap­parent at first glance. To ground its financial decisions, the endowment approaches each in­vestment and partnership through the lens of the u.s. catholic bishops’ guidelines on social responsibility. 
To read the full interview with scott malpass, visit student government’s website at http://stu­dentgovernment.nd.edu/ 
we believe this Q&a series with leading ad­ministrators will increase communication, transparency and, most importantly, collabora­tion between students and administrators. our next interview will be with bill stackman, the associate vice president for student services. stay tuned as the interview will be released dur­ing early fall. 
we’d love to hear your feedback and work with student groups involved in one of our five pil­lars. The ultimate goal is to better serve the stu­dent body. Through our combined effort on this project, we can present our concerns directly to administrators and hear their thoughts in an informal yet informative setting. 
Corey Robinson 
student body president april 18 



By KELLY McGARRY 
associate scene editor 
remaking a classic is dangerous ter­ritory. it presents the challenge of bring­ing something new to the story without corrupting its original value. “The Jungle book” (1967) is a classic for a reason. Jon favreau, director of the 2016 film, makes his mission clear when he appears on-screen to introduce the movie. having grown up, like many in the audience, watching the rudyard Kipling original, favreau conveys a respect for his prede­cessor and the goal of maintaining the integrity of “The Jungle book.” disney animated films are so ubiquitous, revis­iting them often draws the director too far in the direction of edginess, as was the case in “alice in wonderland” (2010). luckily, “The Jungle book” doesn’t fall into this trap, but instead preserves the fundamental themes of the original. however, that’s not to say it doesn’t add anything new. 
The villains are uniquely sinister. shere Khan (idris elba), the tiger who pursues mowgli, is more hostile than ever, and yet elicits sympathy — he appears with a badly-scarred face, an injury he incurred 
By NORA McGREEVY 
scene writer 
she danced in front of screens blazing “feminisT” in bold, bright white letters during the mrs. carter show world Tour. in her 2013 song “***flawless” she sam­pled chimamanda ngozi adichie’s Ted Talk, “we should all be feminists.” her latest music video “formation” released just before super bowl sunday, was widely hailed as a “visual anthem” to black femi­nism — “i just might be a black bill gates in the making!” she exclaims in the video, lifting her arms high in a position of en­thusiastic confidence. 
in short, beyoncé has dedicated a sig­nificant portion of her career and musical prowess to the popularization of notions of feminism in the music industry. and recently, the pop star and entrepreneur took yet another move that clearly mani­fested her feminist ideals: her manage­ment company parkwood entertainment signed three new recording contracts with four young women. These deals cre­ated a new cohort of beyoncé protégés hand-selected by the Queen herself, each artist hopeful for success in an indus­try beyoncé describes as “dominated by men.” 
The protégés include sisters chloe and from a man: mowgli’s own father. his intolerance of mowgli’s kind is rooted in injury, which is just one example of the political undertones in the film. King louie (christopher walken) alludes to a mob boss; he gives mowgli “an offer he can’t refuse.” The hypnotic snake Kaa (scarlett Johansson) has a new element of seductiveness, when she meets mowgli alone in the jungle, telling him “i’ll keep you close” as she prepares to make him her meal. 

baloo (bill murray) returns as a lovable carefree bear, but he’s not entirely altru­istic — he’s a con artist, who only begins his relationship with mowgli to help him amass a huge store of honey. That doesn’t invalidate their whole relationship — it grows more genuine, culminating in a bluesy rendition of “The bare necessities.” mowgli’s guardian figures are strength­ened as well: his mother-wolf raksha (lupita nyong’o) and his jaguar protector bagheera (ben Kingsley) exude poise and wisdom. 
The politics of the jungle are a care­fully constructed system. living among the wolves, mowgli recites a pledge which says, “The strength of the wolf is the strength of the pack.” lead by their alpha, 
halle bailey, aged 17 and 16, based in los angeles; 16-year-old sophie beem from the upper east side of new york and 29-year-old ingrid from beyoncé’s own neighborhood in houston. 
of the 5 songs on sophie beem’s 2016 ep, some hold promising features. “skyline” showcases the depth and rich timbre of her voice as it weaves in and out of ma­ture, cool electronic pop beats. The ac­companying music video is lush, colorful and exciting, embodying the kind of ex­hilaration that comes from a night out in a foreign landscape. with lyrics such as “girls will be girls / out here, running this world,” her song “girls will be girls” shamelessly embraces the same messages beyoncé put forth in songs like “run the world” and “***flawless” but within the context of her own sleeker, bubbly style. other songs come across as disappoint­ingly lifeless — “nail polish” is a confusing combination of vapid lyrics (it’s actually about painting nails) and repetitive syn­thetic noise. according to their interview with elle, beyoncé has afforded her new artists relatively free rein when it comes to their music creation — beem’s style might necessitate some further maturing before it can truly claim worthiness of the Queen’s endorsement. 
comparatively, in their newly-released the wolves support each other and protect their own, with no lack of interaction with the other animals of the jungle. during the dry season, when drinking is more important than eating, the jungle enters a truce and animals are allowed to gather around peace rock unharmed. The ele­phants, who in the original film were rep­resented as a militia, are instead serene mystics who are believed to have created everything in the jungle, and mowgli is re­quired to bow before them out of respect. 
reminders of the political violence in human society are at the forefront: shere Khan terrorizes the jungle in his witch-hunt for the man-cub, fueled by bigotry against mankind. he overtakes the wolf pack by killing their leader, and rules them by instilling fear, and mowgli is left a refugee, forced to flee home with his life at risk. “The Jungle book” doesn’t focus only on the big picture — it also zeroes in on the individual experience of mowgli, a man-cub who doesn’t exactly fit in any­where in the jungle, but knows he has no place among men either. like “avatar” in 2009, “The Jungle book” allows audience members to perceive political violence in a way that is relatable yet distant. 
This all takes place on a beautiful jungle 
single “drop,” duo chloe and halle es­tablish a refreshingly unique sound. The sisters, who gained beyoncé’s attention when their viral cover of “pretty hurts” exploded on youTube in 2011, are con­clusive proof that often two artists work­ing together are often more powerful than one. Their exceptionally impressive voices combine to create complex, layered harmonies. like both sophie beem and ingrid, the sisters sing about their status as female musicians: “when that beat drops / it shatters glass ceilings,” chloe raps, as halle accompanies with a capella accents. although they only have one original work released to date, “drop” stands out for its unusual mixture of fast-paced rap and slower, haunting, lyrical melodies. as halle stated in an interview with elle earlier this month, “we all evolve … so in popular music, i want to hear something different. when it’s unexpected — that’s what makes my heart pitter-patter.” 
finally, the 29-year old rapper and mu­sician ingrid demonstrates the most re­fined perspective compared to her fellow protégés, possibly because she’s had much a much longer musical career in which to discover her own voice. her two released songs, “flex” and “double pedigree,” are intensely personal — they deal nearly ex­clusively with issues surrounding her own backdrop, which can be, at times, dark and ominous. cgi characters interact seamlessly with the live actor mowgli, but flashy effects are not relied upon too heav­ily. in the necessary action scenes, par­ticularly when mowgli is dragged away by monkeys and in the final fight scene, the motion of the animals is realistic, while mowgli’s exaggerated movements bring an element of playfulness reminiscent of the animated character. 

with the movie, favreau accomplished what has never been done before with a classic disney film, at least never on such a huge scale. he recreated “The Jungle book” without abandoning its essence, and his achievement begs the question, can the classics be replaced? years from now, when people talk about “The Jungle book,” they might be referring to this film in the place of the original. it takes time for a disney classic to lend itself to this kind of remake. we may not be ready for another “The lion King,” but “peter pan” and “The aristocats,” as closer contemporaries to “The Jungle book” that enjoy equal fond­ness, may be potential opportunities. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                             kmcgarry@nd.edu 
identity as a black female, born and raised in the Third ward district of houston. her 2016 song, “double pedigree,” a reference to her dual heritage as a black, female art­ist, begins as she slowly and confidently raps, invoking one of her role models, “picture me rollin’ like michelle obama.” The self-assured, swaggering beat com­plements her assertive, southern hip-hop presence. in “flex” (featuring sevyn streeter) she establishes the same theme of bravado without asking for permission. in one particularly salient moment, she declares in a matter-of-fact tone, “and of course i’m into men, i just ain’t into you.” 
beyoncé’s protégés diverge in terms of style and thematic content, yet the women remain united by the same defiantly con­fident, unapologetic edge that permeates so much of beyoncé’s recent work. now is the time for the women to take their ca­reers into their own hands. beyoncé, in an effort to encourage these young artists, has granted them a powerful platform from which to perform — their develop­ment in coming years will surely be some­thing to pay attention to. To quote Queen bey’s most recent ode to self-creation, “okay ladies, now let’s get in formation.” 
Contact Nora McGreevy at                               nmcgreev@nd.edu 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
champaign, illinois’s news-gazette film critic chuck Koplinski introduced his con­tribution to the ebertfest 2016 schedule, the brian wilson musical biopic “love & mercy,” as a film that completely surprised him on his initial viewing. The first-time contribu­tor to the festival, which was founded by pulitzer prize-winning film critic robert ebert in order to celebrate films that did not receive the recognition they deserved during their original runs, echoed famil­iar ebert sentiments about humanity and the delight in coming across movies that challenge their audience and change per­ceptions, characteristics “love & mercy” achieves by going beyond the conventions of the biopic by positioning central figure brian wilson and his humanity ahead of The beach boys or his music. 
“love & mercy” acted as the opener in a surprisingly, if unintentionally, cogent double feature realized by the saturday night ebertfest programming. paired with the 1981 political thriller “blow out,” which ebert championed amidst the film’s under­whelming debut, the two films unexpect­edly strung together an argument about what constitutes as noise, compared to sound. 
in “love & mercy,” brian wilson’s men­tal state progressively deteriorates as he attempts, in grander and grander scale, to translate the noises he hears in his mind into something palatable and accessible not only to a mainstream audience, but, on a more significant level, to his bandmates 
By SAM FENTRESS 
scene writer 
leonard maltin’s 2001 “movie guide” sits in two pieces on the coffee table in my fam­ily room. The pages have been turned and turned and turned. mr. maltin’s friendly visage beams keenly from the bent burnt-yellow cover. 
my first reason for reading reviews was to seek validation for my own experience of the movies. i wanted maltin to like “raiders” and “empire” as much as i did, so when i flipped the pages muttering the al­phabet under my breath, it was with slight nausea. i wondered whether my own in­stincts, feelings and experiences could find the validity like maltin’s, the man of 20,000 entries. 
i’d been taught, by my movie-loving parents, to seek out quality. orson welles? good. grace Kelly? great. “The searchers”? 

and his family. similarly, in “blow out,” Jack Terry, a sound technician for campy horror movies, becomes increasingly ostracized as he tries to convince others of a political as­sassination for which he only has scratchy audio evidence. 
both films feature men who can hear noises that no one else around them can accept. Their duties are to interpret these noises and recapitulate them into sounds, whether it be in song or special effect form, that others will understand. sound begins as a passion, yet — because of this divide 
— it transforms just as much into traumatic obsession. it is the one source for connec­tion to the outside world, but because of their unique relationships to their noise, their realities can never be reconciled with the realities of those for which they adapt their noise. 
for brian wilson, the noises are the voic­es in his head and the perfected versions of every element of his music. he asks for three hours of takes to get the staccato rumblings of his session bassists just right for a snippet of “good vibrations” and cancels expensive studio time if the room’s vibe is off. for Jack Terry, the noises are the tapes of environ­mental sounds he captures by himself and reconstitutes as sound effects for movies. brian and Jack are the only ones that hear the true source of the sounds they produce and become tormented by the inability to share those realities with anyone else. To brian wilson’s fans, his songs are their re­ality, divorced from the noises in his head; to Jack Terry’s audiences, the movie sound effects are their reality, while the original source of the sound remains off screen and unknown. 
The two films convey this divide between artist and audience, noise and sound, in a number of ways, but the most important is where the two coalesce. The tiny workspac­es of each character, brian’s cramped studio and Jack’s cluttered studio, represent their minds and how they are affected through the creative process. initially, they are clean and act as a sanctuary to escape to in order to make sense of the noise. 
gradually, though, outsiders disturb them and their compromising of the space acts as a source of trauma. when brian’s father — also his ex-manager — visits and plays him the new band he signed, brian retreats to a booth in the studio and the song turns into a piercing noise in his head­phones. when an intruder wipes Jack’s li­brary of tapes clean, the clicks and whirrs of his machines crescendo in the film’s sound mixing. 
during pivotal scenes in both films, ac­celerating circular pan shots within these workspaces mimic the claustrophobia caused by the inescapability of the noises in both tortured artists’ minds. because they are contained in such small spaces, the noises swell and swell until something we might take as completely recognizable turns into a grating cacophony of disori­enting panic. and despite either’s ultimate ability to release their reigned-in sounds unto the world, the fundamental discon­nect between their realities and their audi­ence’s leaves them alone and tormented. 
with the double feature’s unintentional significance of sound and, specifically, sound in physical spaces, it was difficult 

The legacy of Roger Ebert 
required viewing. i remember watching audrey hepburn in “wait until dark” with my parents. That is a truly terrifying ex­ample of what a movie can do. movies can have “goodness,” maybe, but they can also exert force. 
eventually i’d form my own canon, as­similating the movies of my parents and their parents’ but adding a few of my own: “castle in the sky,” “The Truman show,” “do the right Thing.” These became my movies, movies i could talk about, movies i’d watch excitedly and put aside and come back to in six months, filled with wonder and questions anew. roger ebert’s name might be on the dvds, with some all-too­succinct quote from the chicago sun-Times pasted on the cover. 
i had only been reading roger’s writ­ing for a few years when he passed away, so coming to his reviews — especially in the digital age — was a bit like getting to know some spry old man. he was steeped in movies and experience, and i wanted to know his opinion about everything. see a movie and then read roger’s take on it. what’s his angle? does he write about the acting? The story? cinematography? we bonded over an affection for miyazaki, ar­gued over lynch and i learned much from him about the human beings behind films like “goodfellas” and “grizzly man.” 
for a while, roger’s reviews were my training wheels. The beauty of roger’s film education is its provision for gradual weaning. eventually, his words taught me it would be better to focus not on what is ef­fective in the movie, but what’s affective to me. i found that if i wanted to truly express my love for the movies, it wouldn’t happen by emulating roger’s experience of a mov­ie. i would have to have my own. 
so what i picked up from roger — what everyone picks up from roger — was that not to be aware of being a member of an audience in ebertfest’s virginia Theatre on saturday night. There is already a height­ened sense of awareness created by watch­ing a film in a theatre that houses over a thousand other critics, filmmakers and the general kind of discerning audience mem­ber that would attend a film festival estab­lished and named after the most important film critic of our time. The communal na­ture of films introduced by those directly involved with them, like nancy allen intro­ducing “blow out,” to a knowingly recep­tive crowd fosters an increased intensity of feeling among the crowd. moments of technical achievement or pivotal lines seem bigger when experienced as part of a per­ceivably actively-invested crowd. 

so it was especially unfortunate when a fellow member of the audience audibly laughed during the emotional climax of “blow out.” while each and every audience member is entitled to their own reaction to a film, this kind of insensitivity was akin to using a cell phone in a theatre. much like steve reich showed in his silent composi­tion 4’33”, the environmental factors of an audience inherently become a part of a movie. as a result, it is extremely important to understand how any one person’s ac­tions, be it looking at a cell phone or making extraneous noise, as one member of an au­dience affect the rest of that audience. after all, noise is something we all have to grap­ple with in our own manner, and can mean wildly different things to different people. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                     mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
writing about film was not a way of validat­ing my own experience in the theater, but learning to have one. it was learning the importance of bringing my own self, story and humanity to each viewing. 
watching movies to roger was anything but passive. he called movies “empathy machines,” designed to lift us out of our stagnant existence. he encouraged people to “read” movies, to marinate in them and reflect on them, to treat them like they might treat great works of literature or mu­sic. at the most fundamental, i believe this is the job of the moviegoer and the critic: to do something to the movie, but first to let it do something to you. 
for me and for many, roger was and is an evangelist. he spread, with humility and love, the gospel of cinema to the world. 
Contact Sam Fentress at                            sfentres@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 




SUDOKU | The mepham group 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: getting along with your peers may not be easy, but it will make all the difference when it comes to advancement. strive for greater popularity by offering assistance and suggestions. be willing to adapt and collaborate and you will gain support. stabilize your home and personal life by putting a good budget in place. your numbers are 8, 11, 16, 21, 29, 33, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay on top of what you want to accomplish. an industrious attitude will put you in the running for advancement. spend wisely on items or information that will help you get ahead and be your best. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put your heart into everything you do. focus on your reputation and dealing with situations that include children or socializing. if you mix business with pleasure, you will achieve more. your focus should be on quality, not quantity. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do something active that combines exercise and conversation with others. romance is in the stars and will unfold unexpectedly. your tireless efforts will leave a lasting impression and set the stage for a promising future. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take note of what is going on around you. showing interest in others will help keep the peace and put you in a favorable position when you want something in return. for now, relationships will face stress if you complain or make a fuss. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): mingle with people who can offer you information or help you gain popularity or a chance to advance. boost your energy by getting involved in an exhilarating challenge with a friend or loved one. romance is on the rise. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share your ideas and you’ll receive valuable suggestions from your allies. step up your game when it comes to long-range planning. don’t pass up a chance to get ahead because someone is putting unreasonable domestic demands on you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional sensitivity will surface if someone tries to control you or introduces last-minute changes. Try to maintain your balance and make plans to do what suits you best. getting upset will only make matters worse. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): broaden the possibilities by discussing your plans with someone who can contribute. Joining forces with others will make any project you pursue engaging and entertaining. Think outside the box, play to win and enjoy the outcome. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): consider a new hobby, but don’t go overboard spending on accessories until you are sure you are passionate about your pursuit. making alterations to your domestic situation will give your love life a boost and encourage greater stability. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): listen carefully so you fully understand the implications being made before you retaliate. protect your reputation, assets and possessions before you make anyone aware of your next move. be smart and you’ll have no regrets. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): being hospitable will ensure that you receive the backing required to achieve your objectives. work at putting together a routine that is ironclad and geared toward success. immaculate organization will be key. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): open up conversations with the intent of forming partnerships with well-established individuals whom you can trust to do their share. don’t be put off by concerns or questions. offer possible solutions and you’ll get positive feedback. 


Birthday Baby: you are reliable, imaginative and goal-oriented. you are assertive and open-minded. stay flexible and keep accomplishing your goals and you will succeed. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 



enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



name 
address 

city     state Zip SPORTS AUTHORITY ROWING | laKe naToma inviTaTional 


NHL takes most depth, guts 

nd gains confidence at lake natoma regatta 

Marek Mazurek 
sports editor 
Editor’s Note: This week, the Sports Authority columnists an­swer the question, “In which com­petition is it most difficult to win a championship?” 
look guys, let’s not make this harder than it needs to be. The toughest competition to win a championship in is clearly the nhl. 
as daniel o’boyle mentioned in his column yesterday, hockey may be less accessible to those not born in colder climates, and, as r.J. stempak pointed out on monday, a middling nba team has very little shot to win the crown. 
but come on, when you get to the nitty gritty of actually play­ing the games to win the cham­pionship, no competition comes close to hockey in terms of the sheer amount of factors you need to win the stanley cup. 
first and foremost, if you want to win the stanley cup, you need depth. That’s four solid lines and six solid defensemen. no team can win the cup with one great line and three mediocre ones. Just ask alex ovechkin. 
hockey is not often a pretty sport, and in a seven-game se­ries, the team that wins is usu­ally the team that gets the most production from their “grind­ing” players on the third and fourth lines. everyone knows patrick Kane and Jonathan Toews on the blackhawks, but chicago has won three stanley cups in the last six years be­cause they have the role play­ers to back them up. in the 2015 stanley cup finals, the blackhawks had nine players with three points or more and rookie Teuvo Teravainen, not Kane or Toews, led the team with four points. for the play­offs as a whole, chicago had 10 players put up 10 or more points, while Tampa bay only had seven players reach the 10-point mark. 
now let’s compare that to oth­er sports shall we? in the nba, all you need is lebron James on your team and you’re guaran­teed a spot in the finals. i mean take away lebron from the 2010 cavaliers, and they don’t even make the playoffs. 
The same goes for the nfl and mlb to a certain extent. yes, defense wins championships, but an elite quarterback clinches you a spot in the conference championship game. same with two great pitchers in base­ball. The dodgers got by with phenomenal performances from Zack greinke and clayton Kershaw and basically no one else. Kansas city fans will re­member with grief how madison bumgarner single-handedly won the 2014 world series for san francisco. 

it’s easy to get one or two star players — anyone with cap space can do that. but the nhl is the most difficult league to win because you need a solid roster from top to bottom. 
in addition to the difficulty it takes to acquire a full roster, the stanley cup is hardest trophy to hoist because of how grueling the playoffs are. sixteen wins gets you the cup, and that’s on top of 82 regular season games. and those 16 wins are the most hard fought in all of sports. playoff hockey is not for the faint-of­heart, and after one series, al­most every player has injuries. 
yet unlike the nba, nhl play­ers actually play through the pain — looking at you, stephen curry. blackhawks forward marian hossa played the 2013 stanley cup finals with a bro­ken hand. boston bruins center patrice bergeron suffered two fractured ribs and a punctured lung in game 5 of that same se­ries but was back in game 6. 
That kind of effort and tough­ness just aren’t evident in other sports. The nfl is physical, yes, but if you’re a top-two seed, you get a bye week to start the play­offs, and then there’s another bye week before the super bowl. 
and if parity is your thing, the nhl has plenty of that, as well. five of the last six stanley cup finals have featured a team seeded fourth or lower, and in 2012, the no. 8-seed los angeles Kings won the cup. That’s never happened in the nba. 
every team is a threat come the playoffs and you can’t buy a championship with one or two stars. Thus, the stanley cup is the toughest trophy to win hands down. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 
no. 18 notre dame traveled to sunny sacramento, california, over the weekend to compete in the lake natoma invitational. 
The irish faced six ranked teams including no. 1 brown, no. 2 california and no. 7 stanford throughout their eight saturday races and three sunday races. 
notre dame had not raced in three weeks due to inclem­ent weather conditions, which forced the cancellation of the big Ten-acc double duel in bloomington, indiana, on april 
2. irish head coach martin stone said the break in play led to im­provement through preparation and training for the team. 
“i think [the break] helped us a little bit,” stone said. “it allowed us to prepare maybe a little bit better. it allowed us to change kind of our training and what we were doing, and there’s always with long layoffs a little bit of a down part — like are we going to forget how to race? — but i think, for the most part, we handled that very well, and i think that our starting morning race was pretty good.” 
on saturday, the second var­sity eight achieved a pair of sec-ond-place finishes with times of 6:32.72 and 6:39.35. The first 

FOR RENT 
3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800 
+ utilities. Washer/dryer, kitchen appliances included. Contact phil­ipms@sbcglobal.net 

came against california and no. 16 iowa, while the second was versus stanford and no. 12 wisconsin. stone said the boat had an outstanding weekend overall. 
“The second varsity [eight] had a really good weekend,” stone said. “came up a little bit short on sunday, but they raced well saturday morning, raced well again saturday afternoon and then, i think, raced well but not great on sunday.” 
The first varsity four did not find as much success in its races, as it finished in third place in both its morning race against the golden bears and hawkeyes and evening race versus the cardinal and badgers. 
notre dame’s first varsity eight, however, had a little more success with a second-place finish — and a time of 6:29.67 
— while squaring off with california and iowa. it later recorded a third-place mark against stanford and wisconsin. 
notre dame’s final boat, the second varsity four, also had a second-place finish followed by a third-place result. in the first race, it finished with a time of 7:28.80 against brown and gonzaga. in the last race of the day, it improved its time to 7:28.17, but fell back one spot while contending against california and brown. 
on day two, the irish im­proved their times across the board from saturday’s races. 
The first varsity four finished fourth in the morning against no. 15 gonzaga, wisconsin and iowa, but it lowered its time to 7:31.25. 
The second varsity eight com­peted next against the same three teams and earned a sec-ond-place finish with a time of 6:31.10. 
in another race featuring the irish, bulldogs, badgers and hawkeyes, notre dame’s first varsity eight took a third-place finish with a time of 6:22.88 to close out the regatta. 
stone said his team’s abil­ity to compete well with high-ly-ranked teams gives it some confidence for the future. 
“it gives us a little bit of con­fidence, but still there’s a long way to go,” stone said. “our goal is to do well at the acc [championships] and get to the ncaas, so those are two things still sitting out there that we’re trying to make happen.” 
notre dame finishes its regu­lar season at the dale england cup regatta in bloomington, indiana, which begins on friday. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at vllorens@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED  TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY--SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or  
F/T: ND family needs an energetic,  
Need  a  babysitter  for  Sep  outdoor-loving, reliable gal to trav­ 
9th  eve  when  Domer  family  in  el to beautiful Jackson Hole WY  
for a football weekend. Contact  from end of May/early June to early  
info@greymattersintl.com  August as our live-in nanny. Email:  
info@greymattersintl.com  

paid adverTisemenT 




Softball 
conTinued from page 16 
tightened the screws and retired six straight batters in the third and fourth innings. 
behind rhodes, the irish got on the board in the bottom of the third with junior center fielder Karley wester smacking a one-out double to center field. her sister, freshman second baseman ali wester advanced her to third on a sacrifice bunt to bring up freshman third baseman melissa rochford. 
rochford walked and stole sec­ond to give the irish runners on second and third with freshman designated player caitlyn brooks at the plate. brooks put the irish in front, 2-0, on a single to right field on the next pitch, with both wester and rochford coming around to score. 
notre dame kept the heat up in the fourth with sophomore short­stop morgan reed and fresh­man catcher maddie mccracken leading off the inning with back-to-back singles off freshman broncos left-hander Jordan Kurth. senior right fielder megan sorlie grounded out but advanced both runners to give the irish another scoring opportunity. 
sophomore left fielder bailey bigler worked Kurth to a full count and fouled a ball to first base, which was dropped by broncos freshman first baseman brooke wyman. bigler drew a walk on the next pitch, and instead of two outs and runners on second and third, the irish drew a bases-loaded at-bat for Karley wester. 
and she delivered. 
after working to a full count, wester drove a grand slam to right field for her second home run of the season to extend the irish lead to 6-0. irish head coach deanna gumpf praised wester’s perfor­mance on the night. 
“one of our small-ballers is the one who hit the grand slam,” gumpf said. “[wester] does such a great job with that. Karley had a great day. she did everything, she completely dominated her at-bats using small ball and going power. 

i was really proud of the way she attacked all day today.” 
western michigan looked to answer, however, and loaded the bases with no outs to start the fifth. broncos junior left fielder ivy schaaf lined a single to right field, but sorlie had a chance to make a play at home. sorlie’s throw was on time, but broncos sophomore outfielder geordin craun slid in under the tag to put the broncos on the board. 
The broncos continued to cut into notre dame’s lead as senior second baseman melissa palmer singled to to score two more runs. cichocki walked to load the bases for the second time in the inning, but gumpf stuck with rhodes, who escaped the inning with the lead intact by getting junior des­ignated player abby stoner to pop out. 
“That was a tough inning,” gumpf said. “we were talking about it in the team room, just little things that we can do bet­ter. i thought, even though we did a great job after that inning just shutting the door, i think there are some things we can continue to improve on. ... and i think we’re going to do a much better job of that.” 
entering the sixth inning, irish sophomore left-hander Katie beriont replaced rhodes. after retiring the first batter, beriont al­lowed runners to reach first and second but got out of the inning with two straight groundouts to rochford at third base. 
beriont closed western michigan out in the seventh and final inning as the broncos went three-up, three-down, sealing the 6-3 victory for the irish. 
The irish will be in action again wednesday at 6 p.m. when they face valparaiso at melissa cook stadium. 
“i just want to play really good ball,” gumpf said. “if there’s one thing to improve on from [Tuesday] it’s really minimize the one inning. Things are going to happen, we just need to do a great job of slowing it down.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

Landis 
conTinued from page 16 
starting roles. 
“it’s a great comfort to know that everyone works just as hard so that they can help the team win, and that there’s not a very noticeable effect with the change of personnel,” landis said. 
whether with the usual start­ing three or a change in person­nel, the irish have performed admirably under pressure this season. five out of their last six games have been decided by two goals or less, including three that have gone to overtime. late in the game, however, landis and company have been buck­ling down. 
“our goal is to ultimately go into the playoffs … and they’re gonna be really close games,” landis said. “it’s a great comfort knowing that we play such good team defense that our offense can rely on us sometimes to re­lieve the pressure.” 
The unique thing about notre dame this season is the depth they have across all four classes, a trait which is not limited to its defense. in addition to the expe­rience of the core playing togeth­er, landis said the team’s depth might be the key to making this season different from past years. 
“it’s great to have so many guys playing, and it’s unique to have this amount of talent,” landis said. “[There are] a lot of guys with talent and ability, and if we put that together, i think there’s no reason why we shouldn’t be right there at the end of the year.” 
for all intents and purposes, if the irish are playing in the na­tional championship game at the end of the year, landis will have played a huge role. 
in addition to the schmiesser award, landis also won acc defensive player of the year last year, two separate defensive-player-of-the-week honors this spring, the weaver-James­corrigan postgraduate schol­arship from the acc and was honored as a preseason all­american this year. 
still, landis only has his eyes set on one award come late may. 
“[getting all those awards], i think it’s cool,” landis said. “but there’s only one real award i’m after — to win a national cham­pionship. it’s great to win all these awards, but, to be honest, i’m looking for something else. an all-american award means something, but i want a ring.” 
and what about those clamor­ing for landis to become the first defensive player ever to win the Tewaarton award? 
“i think it would be a great honor,” landis said. “i’m not focusing on any stuff like that, though — i’m focusing on my matchup and my job every time i step on the field.” 
if landis keeps playing his game and thinking like that, late may and early June could be an exciting time for the irish. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@.edu 



ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
ND set to begin ACC tournament 

By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame will travel to cary, north carolina, this week to play in the acc tournament at the cary Tennis center. The irish will be the no. 11 seed in the tournament and will take on no. 14-seeded pittsburgh at 10 a.m. wednesday in the first round. 
“we will only have one practice before our first conference match on wednesday,” irish head coach Jay louderback said. “we play a very tough pitt team we beat 4-3 early in the season.” 
That match between the irish (12-12, 5-9) and the panthers (7­13, 1-13) took place feb. 12 at eck Tennis pavilion. in that match, the irish were lifted to singles wins by senior Quinn gleason, juniors mary closs and Jane fennelly, and sophomore allison miller. Junior monica robinson and senior Julie vrabel were bested in their matches. in the doubles competi­tion, closs and vrabel won their match, while the teams of gleason/ robinson and fennelly/miller both lost to give the point to the panthers. 
The panthers’ lone conference win of the season in 14 tries came against louisville on feb. 19, while the irish enter the tournament af­ter winning two of their final three regular season matches. 
on friday, notre dame defeated virginia Tech on senior day at the courtney Tennis center. The irish were propelled to victory by singles wins by sophomore brooke broda, robinson and gleason and by dou­bles wins from gleason/robinson and vrabel/closs. 
irish sophomore brooke broda connects on a backhand during notre dame’s 6-1 win over indiana on feb. 20 at eck Tennis pavilion. caitlyn Jordan | The observer 
irish sophomore brooke broda connects on a backhand during notre dame’s 6-1 win over indiana on feb. 20 at eck Tennis pavilion. 
during the loss at virginia on sunday, broda won her match 6-2, 6-4 on court no. 5. miller emerged victorious on court no. 3 7-5, 6-4. 
gleason, closs, fennelly and robinson did not have the same success as their other teammates, however. on court no. 1, gleason was bested 6-1, 6-3. closs lost her match in straight sets 6-2, 7-5 on court no. 4, while fennelly was met with the same fate on court no. 6, losing 7-5, 6-3. robinson was best­ed 6-1, 6-2 on court no. 2. 
in the doubles competition, broda/miller were winning 5-4 on court no. 3 when the match was discontinued. The teams of gleason/robinson and closs/ vrabel were both bested by scores of 6-3 on courts no. 1 and 2, respectively. 
later on sunday afternoon, the irish closed out the regular sea­son by shutting down norfolk state from start to finish. broda and fennelly shut out their oppo­nents 6-0, 6-0 on courts no. 4 and 5, respectively. closs swept her op­ponent 6-1, 6-1 on court no. 3. on court no. 1, gleason won 6-1, 6-0, followed by a 6-2, 6-1 victory by miller on court no. 2. freshman rachel chong emerged victorious on court no. 6, 6-2, 6-2. 
in the doubles competition, the doubles team of gleason/fennelly won, 6-2, on court no. 1, followed by broda/miller emerging victori­ous, 6-2, on court no. 2. vrabel/ chong finished off the team sweep by winning, 6-4, on court no. 3. 
louderback believes the close matches his team has been in­volved in this season will be ben­eficial to helping his team have the right competitive mindset. 
“i am really excited about how are doubles teams are playing,” louderback said. “we have been in multiple tight 4-3 matches, which will help us in the post season.” 
The winner of wednesday’s match between notre dame and pittsburgh will face off against no. 6-seeded clemson at 10 a.m. on Thursday. The tournament will conclude sunday at 10 a.m. 
The tournament will get under­way for notre dame on wednesday at 10 a.m. in cary, north carolina. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 





Olympics 
conTinued from page 16 
years and the first u.s. women’s fencer ever to win a medal. 
Kelley hurley, a 2010 gradu­ate, will be taking part in her third olympics after qualify­ing as an individual epeeist in 2008 and with the women’s epee team in 2012. in 2012, she was an alternate and defeated anna sivkova of russia after replacing susie scanlan to help the united states women’s epee team earn the bronze medal. 
meinhardt, a 2015 graduate, will also be making his third olympic appearance. he is cur­rently the no. 3 men’s foilist in the world and became the youngest u.s. olympic fencer of all time when he made the team in 2008 at the age of 17. 
courtney hurley, a 2012 grad­uate and the younger sister of Kelley hurley, will be making her second appearance in the olympics. she qualified as both an individual epeeist and with the women’s epee team in 2012, when she clinched the winning touch in the team’s bronze-medal match against russia to secure its place on the podium. 
Kiefer, a current senior for notre dame who took this past season off to participate in the qualification cycle, will be tak­ing place in her second olympic games. she has won the ncaa women’s foil championship in all three seasons she has com­peted for the irish, and she fin­ished fifth as an individual foilist during her only olympic ap­pearance in 2012. 
with five representatives on the u.s. team, notre dame boasts more olympians than any other ncaa program and is just one of three programs with multiple representatives. 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 



Baseball 
but i think, doing it for mike — because he’s a guy that just 
conTinued from page 16 
works his tail off — it kinda 
means a little more for me. it 
dominated on the mound,” makes me feel real good that 
lidge said. “i knew it would i was able to do that for him.” 
be a low scoring game. after other than getting the lead-
a couple innings, you kinda off batter on base in the bot-
get that vibe. i’d love to do tom of the seventh inning, 
that for every guy on the staff, michigan state’s only real scoring chance of the game came in the ninth inning. The spartans got the first two batters of the inning on with back-to-back singles be­fore a pair of sterling defensive plays preserved the narrowest of leads for the irish. hearne was able to get the lead runner out at third base on a fielder’s choice for the first out of the inning be­fore senior center fielder Kyle richardson made the play of the game to keep the tying run from scoring at home for the second out of the inning. “The guy hit the ball up the middle,” lidge said of the play that saved the game. “[senior shortstop] lane richards makes a big dive with out­stretched arms — i thought he was going to get it. it gets through him, gets to Kyle, who was in there as a defensive re­placement, and he makes a fantastic throw home. i don’t know if he could have thrown it better. fantastic throw to home, gives me a nice hop. i go to tag him. he slid in pretty hard, so i was just hoping i held on to the ball. i squeezed it real tight, and we got him out. “That’s two big plays back-to-back, with [hearne] get­ting the guy out at third, and it was a big play to stop the ty­ing run from scoring. i think that might have taken the breath out of michigan state.” with Tuesday’s win, notre 
dame has won every game started by hearne this sea­son. The nine innings of shut­out ball dropped his era to 
2.25 on the season. 
“mike’s the epitome of what we try to live every single day,” lidge said. “going out there and being confident in your­self, grinding through at-bats. he had a couple at-bats where the guy just kept fouling stuff off. having mike go out there every midweek, knowing that he’s a guy that’s going to give us a big chance to win, puts a lot of confidence in our hit­ters and puts a lot of confi­dence in the defense. we can tell that mike feels good about himself because he feels good about the team, so he’s just a great guy to play for, great guy to play behind. i couldn’t be happier for him to get that complete-game shutout.” 
up next for the irish is wednesday night’s return to frank eck stadium in a mid­week game against central michigan. 
“we’ve been playing re­ally, really well as of late,” lidge said. “but we don’t re­ally try to look at that. we just say, ‘hey, we’re gonna go out there, we’re gonna have a ton of fun, but at the same time, we’re going to compete at a really high level.’ we’re really confident in ourselves right now. we’re firing on all cyl­inders, and we’re ready to go tomorrow. we’re just going to take it one pitch at a time and hopefully come away with the victory.” 
first pitch between the irish and chippewas (8-28, 3-6 mac) will be at 6:05 p.m. at frank eck stadium. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


BASEBALL | nd 1, michigan sTaTe 0 

Hearne pitches Irish past Spartans 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
different week, same story for notre dame and senior left-hander michael hearne. 
although the irish (22­12, 9-7 acc) saw their of­fense largely held in check at michigan state on Tuesday afternoon, hearne hurled his second complete game in as many starts and stifled the spartans (25-8, 7-2 big Ten) in a 1-0 victory for notre dame, its sixth in a row and 14th of 16. 
hearne kept the spartans off the board completely, making it just the third time michigan state has been held scoreless all season. 
The irish got their only run of the entire game in the top of the sixth inning with a solo shot off the bat of ju­nior catcher ryan lidge, who said the best part about it was helping hearne get the win. 
“it’s probably more gratify­ing for me that it came for a guy that just absolutely 
see baseball PAGE 15 


FENCING 
olympic fencers named 
Observer Staff Report 
one current and four former notre dame fencers will represent the united states at this summer’s olympic games in rio de Janeiro, brazil. 
mariel Zagunis, sisters Kelley and courtney hurley, gerek meinhardt and lee Kiefer were selected for the 17-member u.s. olympic team following a year­long qualification process. 
Zagunis, a 2006 graduate, will be making her fourth olympic ap­pearance and is one of the most accomplished fencers in united states’ olympic history. she is a two-time individual gold medal­ist, capturing the titles in 2004 and 2008, and also earned a bronze medal in 2008 as a member of the women’s sabre team. with her gold medal in 2004, Zagunis be­came the first u.s. fencer to win an olympic gold medal in 100 
see olympics PAGE 15 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
landis leads veteran defense 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
Take a glance at senior de­fender matt landis’ stat-line and nothing will stick out at you about his career at notre dame. 
Zero points in four years, 90 to­tal ground balls. 
Then why are some, including lax magazine and notre dame sports website one foot down, clamoring for landis to win the the Tewaarton award, which an­nually recognizes the most out­standing lacrosse player in the nation? 
it’s because the captain is last year’s usila william c. schmeisser award winner for best defender in the nation and is arguably the best player on the current no. 1 team and the no. 2 defense in country. 
for landis, however, the team comes before the individual. 
“i think the most important thing is to not focus on myself and get too caught up with the past,” landis said. “honestly, our defense is one of the best in the country and has been for the past couple years. somebody has to get that individual at­tention, and [it’s great] that it happened to me. but the reason why i’m so good is not because of me — it’s because of all six guys back there. and i’m very real about that. it’s not just my role — it’s everybody else’s role that matters.” 
The defense in general has had one of the best statistical years in recent history. averaging only 
6.60 goals against per game, the irish have held all 10 of their op­ponents under their season aver­age for goals so far. 
landis believes a lot of their success can be attributed to how the entire starting defense re­turned from last year, as well as most of the key players on mid­field and attack, he said. 
“everyone is pretty comfort­able with how everyone plays,” landis said. “we’re not really learning any more about one another; we’re comfortable with one another.” 
even so, the notre dame de­fense has dealt with adversity. Junior and starting defender garrett epple has only started six of the irish’s 10 games this year due to injury, pushing reserves like senior Jack sheridan into 
see landis PAGE 13 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 6, wesTern michigan 3 

wester’s grand slam  lifts irish over broncos 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
no. 18 notre dame kept its momentum rolling Tuesday evening, knocking off western michigan, 6-3, for its 20th-con­secutive nonconference victory. 
in addition to its noncon­ference winning streak, the irish (33-6, 9-3 acc) have now won eight in a row overall after sweeping acc rival virginia Tech over the weekend. 
senior left-hander allie rhodes took the mound for the irish, looking for her 16th win of the season. The Kirkland, washington, native set down the side in order in the first in­ning but ran into trouble in the second against the broncos (18­20, 10-3 mac). 
broncos junior third base­man Kelsea cichocki hit a lead-off single back up the middle and three batters later fresh­man catcher courtney sleeman drew a walk to put runners on first and second with two outs. rhodes escaped, however, forc­ing a groundout and preserving the scoreless tie. rhodes then 
see sofTball PAGE 13 





