The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 80 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Student films to screen in annual film festival 
Notre Dame Student Film Festival features 11 short films produced by undergraduates 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
every year, the notre dame student Film Festival gives stu­dents the opportunity to show­case their creativity through the big screen. This year’s fes­tival, which will be held at the debartolo performing arts center this weekend, features 11 short films directed and pro­duced by undergraduates, and culminates with an audience choice award that will be pre­sented after the sunday night screening. 
Junior liza connor is one of the students whose film was chosen to screen at the festival. she said her film, “ambiguous encounter,” was a result of an entire semester’s worth of work and time. 
“when we found out that we made the film festival we were so excited,” connor said. “we had to develop our idea quickly, but it kind of came together really nicely.” 
Ted mandell, an associate professorial specialist in the de­partment of film, television and theatre (FTT), said that 
see Film PAGE 3 




incoming editor-in-chief names supporting staff 
managing editors. They will of-economics, she has previ-
Observer Staff Report 
ficially begin their term march ously covered changes to the 
Juniors kayla mullen, Zach 13. core curriculum and student klonsinski, alex carson and mullen, a junior from government. clare kossler will join The philadelphia, lives in howard “i am excited for the oppor­observer’s editorial board for 
tunity to work with such a tal-




In light of report, ND examines admissions 
lead to responsible work, 

By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor caring relationships and ethical citizenship,” the re-

the upcoming year in upper-
level editing positions, incom­
ing editor-in-chief 
margaret 
hynds announced Thursday. 
mullen, who currently serves 
as 
associate news editor, 
will take on the no. 2 spot at 

ented new team and i cannot 
The harvard graduate port stated. 

wait for the year ahead,” mullen 
school of education’s The document goes on to 
making caring common outline recommendations 

said. “it promises to be a ban­
ner year for The observer and i 
project issued “Turning the to 
achieve these goals. 
am thrilled to be a part of it.” 
Tide,” a report aimed at re-
according to the report, the 

klonsinski, a junior from 
making the college admis­
admissions process should 

knott hall, is finishing his 
sions process into a means 
place a large emphasis on 
the paper, managing editor. 

term as sports editor. a history klonsinski, carson and kossler hall on campus. majoring will assume the role of assistant in both political science and see board PAGE 4 

Artistic director talks incarceration, Shakespeare 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Tom magill, artistic di­rector and founder of the educational shakespeare company (esc) gave a lecture sponsored by the keough-naughton institute for irish studies on Thursday afternoon; magill was on campus to present at this week’s shakespeare in prisons conference. 
esc is located in belfast, northern ireland, and focus­es on storytelling through drama and film as a cathar­tic form of expression, most notably for inmates. 
“basically, what [esc] does is it empowers marginalized people to find their voice and tell their stories,” magill said. 
magill was born in loyalist north belfast, where he grew up “protestant and british” during a time of great and violent turmoil against the irish republicans. 

“in north belfast, your ability to inflict violence was a measure of your pow­er,” magill said. “‘Turn the other cheek’ my mother would whisper to me; ‘fight back’ my father would say, ashamed of his youngest son, beating me to bed with no supper. i was beaten at home for being a coward, for letting the family name 
see esc PAGE 4 
of encouraging genuine ethical and intellectual en­gagement in high school-and college-age students, on Jan. 20. admissions personnel from various top-tier universities, such as cornell university and dartmouth college, have signed the report, endors­ing its contents. donald bishop, associate vice pres­ident for undergraduate enrollment at notre dame, said the document was not widely distributed and thus, the university did not have the opportunity to sign it. 
“The admissions process should both clearly signal that concern for others and the common good are high­ly valued in admissions and describe what kinds of ser­vice, contributions and en­gagement are most likely to meaningful community service and should pri­oritize the quality, not the quantity, of activities par­ticipated in while in high school. 
“applications should state plainly that students should feel no pressure to report more than two or three substantive extra­curricular activities and should discourage students from reporting activities that have not been mean­ingful to them,” the report stated. 
“we are going to reach out to harvard and look at what they have said in this preliminary report,” bishop said. “over the next two years, they are going to work out the details and we are going to offer to get 
see admission PAGE 4 






ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 


Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndmscobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach klonsinski nicole caratas martha reilly 
Graphics Scene 

Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

emmet Farnan Tabitha ricketts 


Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is most important to preserve about Walsh’s identity as it transitions to Pangborn? 

Bailey Jaeger 
freshman 
walsh hall 

“we foster community by keeping our doors open so we can see people we know walking by.” 
Courtney Davis 
junior 
walsh hall 

“it’s most important to preserve our sense of family, we’re always there for each other and i don’t want that aspect of walsh to change.” 
Meagan Downes 
freshman 
walsh hall 

“connecting between the grades. i feel like the older girls here really make an effort to welcome the freshmen.” 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Friday 
Lecture: “Centuries of Shakespeare” 
Hesburgh Library 4 p.m-5 p.m. Michael Witmore will present. 
Graduate Student Mass 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. Seating will be reserved. 
Saturday 
Benefit Dinner for Christian Refugees 
Remick Commons 7 p.m-9 p.m. Funds raised for persecuted Christians. 
27th Annual Student Film Festival 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. Student-produced films. 

Sunday 

Meghan Freeman 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“The best thing about walsh is people’s enthusiasm for the community. ... That’s something we can carry with us wherever we go.” 
Rachel Francis 
junior 
walsh hall 
“i’ve always appreciated that walsh isn’t divided by sections. ... with a little extra effort this ... can be maintained in pangborn.” 
Sheryl Cherian 
junior 
walsh hall 
“resilience. i’ve always understood walsh to be a place where we make the best of our situations ... .” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Lecture: “Beyond the Pub” 
Geddes Hall 8:30 a.m.-9:30 a.m. Learn about community in Dublin. 
Workshop: “Getting Started in Research” 
Brownson Hall 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Learn how to start a creative endeavor. 

Men’s Basketball vs. Wake Forest 
Purcell Pavilion 1 p.m-3 p.m. The Irish take on the Demon Deacons. 
La Misa en Español 
Dillon Hall 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. All are welcome to this Mass celebrated in Spanish. 
“No Cross, No Crown” 
Snite Museum of Art all day Print exhibition by James Barry. 
“African American Voices” 
Snite Museum of Art all day African-American artwork exhibition. 

McGlinn Hall raises money for kids with annual Casino Night 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
The women of mcglinn hall will turn the laFortune ballroom into a casino for the night this saturday, as the dorm hosts its annual casino night fundraiser, open to all holy cross, saint mary’s and notre dame students. 
according to kaleigh o’boyle, one of mcglinn’s casino night co-com­missioners, the event will run from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the laFortune ball room. o’boyle said the event will feature blackjack and roulette tables as well as an all-night poker tournament. There will be plenty of chances to win exciting prizes, she said. 
“The winner of the poker tour­nament gets a $100 gift card to the bookstore and second place winner gets a $50 gift card to the bookstore,” o’boyle said. “in addition to that ... you get fake cash when you come in and you can gamble with your fake cash. so at the end of the night ... you can hand in your fake cash for raffle tickets and then we’ll be drawing prizes from local businesses in the area, like einstein’s, Five guys [and] south bend chocolate Factory.” 

all of the proceeds from ticket sales will go to saint adalbert catholic school, a grammar school in south 
“Casino Night is a really fun way to have a good time with your friends and also do something good for these kids who are really hard-working and deserving of our help.” 
Kaleigh O’Boyle 
co-commissioner, McGlinn Casino Night 
bend, o’boyle said. mcglinn hall residents tutor saint adalbert’s students throughout the year, and o’boyle said the hall has a great partnership with them. 
“casino night is a really fun way to have a good time with your friends and also do something good for these kids who are really hardworking and really deserving of our help,” o’boyle said. 
according to o’boyle, casino night raised more than $2,000 last year. The fundraising goal this year is to surpass, or at least match, that amount. 
o’boyle said she is hoping for a big turnout for casino night. 
“honestly, i would just love it to be full of people who are having fun and who are happy they’re there,” o’boyle said. “i think its a great way to have friendly competition and i think that really attracts a lot of people. so as long as people are happy and we’re getting some good funds in for saint adalbert’s, i’ll be pretty happy.” 
o’boyle said students can buy tickets at the door and check out the event’s Facebook page for more information. 
Contact Emma Borne at  eborne@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | The observer 


Group promotes spirtuality through music 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
inspired by the notre dame spiritual group Four:7, a new spiritual group at saint mary’s has emerged called sing out and rejoice (soar). 
senior group coordinator sofia piecuch described soar as a praise and worship and fel­lowship group where students can come together to sing and praise the lord, hear from a speaker and share about their faith in small groups to learn from one another. 
“we are channeling Four:7’s spirit in soar,” piecuch said. 
Film 
conTinued From page 1 
he has been involved with the film festival every year since its inception. 
“This is the 27th time i’ve done this, so like anything you do for 27 times, you kind of have a process in place that you’re comfortable with,” he said in an email. “my main focus is putting together the flow of the show from film to film, bal­ancing sound, other technical 
piecuch had been attending Four:7 at notre dame since her freshman year. 
“we were all really sad that they ended [the spiritual group] last year,” piecuch said. “but it was no longer serving the needs of people at notre dame.” 
piecuch said in the spring semester, the majority of the group’s attendees had been college students, so she hoped to bring a similar group to saint mary’s campus. 
“i was really passionate about starting this because i go to notre dame for a lot for faith-related activities,” piecuch said. “i am excited to create 
things. it takes a lot less time today than it did back in 1990.” 
mandell said the process of choosing films to show at the festival can be difficult due to an abundance of qualified films. 
“we look at all the films pro­duced in our FTT film produc­tion courses over the past year and try and choose the ones which are both creative and technically accomplished. ... and we stop when we get to two hours,” mandell said. “certainly other films are worthy, but for a public screening i try and keep an environment like that for belles.” 

soar’s first meeting was Jan. 19 and, “had a great turnout,” piecuch said. 
at the meeting, speaker Jennifer miller, who has a master of divinity from notre dame, spoke about her journey in discovering the plans god has for his people. 
group music coordinator first year katherine smith, summa­rized miller’s talk. 
“she told us that as a college student, she was always a wor­rier — worrying about the plans she had for herself,” smith said. “but god told her that through 
it in that two-hour total run time.” 
connor said the films at the festival are relatable and packed with creativity and passion. she said she thinks when someone is so passionate about some­thing it makes it more fun to watch, which is exactly why she believes the notre dame community will enjoy the film festival. 
“it’s exciting to see everyone so pumped up and proud of each other,” connor said. “it’s a small kind of niche of us … and it’s fun 
paid adverTisemenT 

everything that happens, all will be well.” 
after breaking out in small groups to discuss miller’s talk, smith said she thought students were happy to have come. 
“people were so excited to be there and were willing to share,” smith said. “it’s a good way to improve faith life.” 
Freshman group officer haley coghlan said she supports the mission of the group. 
“i hope it’s something that grows so that people feel com­fortable in their faith,” coghlan said. “ ... it was refreshing. it gets you to step away from academ­ics and focus on your faith.” 
to see everyone succeeding.” 
mandell said he believes stu­dents should go for the same reason they go to any other movie in the theaters. 
“you want to be entertained. you want to be touched emo­tionally either through laughter, or fear, or provocation, or any other emotional connection that you make with a film,” he said. “it’s no different with the student film fest ... and there’s that added element that you just might recognize the star of the film from your dorm.” 
group officer freshman emily scott said she thinks the group is an essential for saint mary’s students to step back from the business of their lives. 
“i feel like i get lost in my ev­eryday schedule,” scott said. “so i don’t get to think about my faith deeply. it was nice to set aside a specific time to go and pray. ... it’s so different than events i’ve organized in the past.” 
soar’s next meeting will be held this upcoming Tuesday at 
8:30 p.m. in the holy cross hall chapel at saint mary’s. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssynder01@saintmarys.edu 
mandell said the arts are es­sential to life and he hopes the student film festival induces an “emotional change and urge to discuss what you’ve just seen with someone else.” 
“ask yourself how much visu­al storytelling you’ve consumed today,” he said. “i tell my stu­dents they’ve been studying for our film production courses for the first 17 years of their lives. They just didn’t know it.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 





ESC 
“i 
“i started to write,” he said. the cast. 

 realized being creative “we’re planning our next 
that in the application. 
Admission 
“… so as a group of stu­
conTinued From page 1 
down. i hated my name. i hated belfast.” 
when he was 19, magill spent three years in prison for violence. it was during those three years that magill made me feel worthwhile. when i was being creative, i lost any desire for vio­lence. but sharing my writ­ing still feels vulnerable. we still think vulnerability is a weakness, but it’s not — it’s the most accurate measure prison-shakespeare project, ‘prospero’s prison,’ based on ‘The Tempest,’” magill said. “i’ve chosen not to make the colonial theme central as i believe it will divide opin­ion. i’m looking for a theme to unite, and that theme is 

conTinued From page 1 
involved.” 
bishop said he feels that the university already does a great job of conveying the message of the harvard report. 
dents, you all are really wanting to do the right things and serve others, but you are also highly skilled and you have really intel­lectualized your lives. you 
“We are in 

betrayal. many of the peo­ple i’ve spoken to — on both sides of the divide — feel be­trayed, so our take will focus on the misplaced trust that feeds the ambition that leads to a brother’s betrayal.” 
magill now works in fo­rensic mental health, still encouraging people to share their traumatic stories with film, in addition to serving as the artistic director of esc. 
“it’s about having the op­portunity to address their needs,” magill said. “it’s about having the opportunity to be listened to and to have that voice, tease out and then to give them the choice about what they do in terms of be­ing creative and external­izing what is hurting them. hurt people hurt people and healed people heal people. That process between hurt­ing and healing, that’s where the arts come in. we do that through expression.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
“There was a statement in there, early on, that said while some schools already do this [emphasize the se­lection of civically and intellectually engaged stu­dents], many do not – we are one of the schools that already does this,” bishop said. “we are in alignment with what they want to see other schools do – we al­ready do. That is why we want to join in, because we think that we can be help­ful to them.” 
bishop is in the process of writing a response to the report but said notre dame sets itself apart from other schools through its ongoing commitment to recruiting students whose charac­ter demonstrate the notre dame mission of educating “mind, body and spirit.” 
“a lot of what the harvard process is – what other schools should value – we have always valued,” bishop said. “we have talked about our values – we try to re­ward that if we can identify 
alignment with what they want to see other schools do — we already do. That is why we want to join in, because we think that we can be 
helpful to them.” 
Donald Bishop 
Associate vice president for undergraduate enrollment 
like to think, and i think that thinking and doing, putting those together, notre dame students do quite well,” he said. “That is what we are looking for in our applicant pool – people that will think through and then act on their thoughts and want to not just be­come an expert in some academic or intellectual field, but also help make a difference.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 
“with the 2016 election just around the corner, i think we have a challenging year ahead of us, but one that is also full of opportunity,” kossler said. “i’m thrilled to be working with 
Tom Magill 
artistic director and founder of 
the educational shakespeare 

reached his “turning point” by delivering a meal to an irish inmate who was on a hunger strike. 
“he told me to educate my­self, to not waste my time — my life — in prison,” magill said. “i listened to him. i took in every word. my en­emy became my teacher, starving himself to death and yet he gave me good ad­vice: ‘educate yourself, learn about your culture, be proud of who you are, don’t waste your life in here.’ his words challenged me and shook me to the core. i listened to my enemy, ira [irish republican army] volunteer Frank stagg.” 
magill took the advice to heart. 
Board 
conTinued From page 1 
major from belgrade, montana, klonsinski has covered a wide range of notre dame sports of courage.” 
in 1994, after being released from prison and studying theatre, he worked with 10 ira prisoners to adapt bobby sands’s epic poem “The crime of castlereagh” into theatre — the prisoners were controversially given parole to perform publicly. 
The poem the play is based on, which sands wrote after he was in a holding center for terrorists, was so contro­versial that magill lost his job. 
“i was told — in no un­certain terms — to limit my theatre-making skills to short sketches about getting in, out or getting married,” magill said. “There would be no more political drama. i told prison authorities i was not prepared to work under such circumstances.” 
he directed “mickey b,” a film adaptation of “macbeth” in 2007. The film was shot in maghaberry high-security prison and prisoners, includ­ing former republican and loyalist prisoners, made up 
year. 
“my time with The observer has been one of my favorite and most cherished experiences at notre dame, and i’m excited for the opportunity to work with some of the best people junior applied and computa­tional mathematics and statis­tics major and currently covers notre dame’s football, men’s basketball and women’s la­crosse teams, having formerly written on the irish men’s soc-The observer,” carson said. “i anticipate getting to work on boosting our online presence and working alongside our strong corps of writers across all departments.” 

kossler, who is pursuing a 

on campus in an even larger 

double major in history and 



role next year,” klonsinski said. 
“it will be an extremely impor­
tant and busy one on a number 
of fronts, but with a great staff 
in place i know we’re in a great 
position to take advantage of 
it.” 
carson currently serves 

mathematics, previously 
served as associate news 
editor, during which time she 
aided with coverage of sexual 
assault and mental health is­sues on campus and reported on updates to the university’s 
core curriculum. kossler lives 
Zach Klonsinski 
assistant managing editor 

in south bend and is current-such a great team of writers teams during his time with The sports editor and is a resident cer and hockey programs. ly studying abroad in Toledo, who are dedicated to providing observer, including football, of o’neill hall. hailing from “i’m really looking forward spain. on campus, she is a resi-consistent and reliable cover-hockey, and men’s soccer this Fishers, indiana, carson is a to assuming a larger role with dent of pasquerilla west hall. age for the student body.” 
as The observer’s associate 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 





By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEWDON and NICK LAUREANO 
scene writers 

The 27th annual notre dame student Film Festival is coming to the debartolo performing arts center starting Friday, and with it the promise of laughs, smiles and tears. 
according to Ted mandell, the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) professor in charge of the event, the festival can act as a launching point for students’ careers in the film industry. 
“The student film fest is really that moment when a semester project in class turns into an actual film,” he said. “it’s not your homework anymore. it’s a work of art with a captivated audi­ence. and after premiering here, it can gain new audiences at film festivals all over the country and around the world.” 
mandell’s words are far from empty praise. consider 2002 FTT graduate peter richardson: his initial foray into documentary filmmaking, “racist,” was featured in the 2002 student Film Festival. since then, he has earned the grand Jury prize at the 2011 sundance Film Festival for his documentary “how To die in oregon,” and now he’s slated to direct “dark net,” a documentary se­ries for showtime. 
This year’s festival is brimming with just as many talented filmmak­ers as previous years, all of them un­afraid to explore disparate genres from documentary to comedy. moira hamilton and maddie landon venture into science fiction in “glitch;” lauren Josephson, camille muth and Zach ostapchenko explore fantasy in “Five simple steps;” anna gonzalez finds the method behind the humor of the notre dame student standups in the docu­mentary “spark of madness.” 
This batch of students is confident in pushing more than just the formal lim­its of filmmaking. They are also turning inward with resolve, shedding light on difficult, human stories. 
in particular, the documentary “pa­trolling sandy hook” investigates the ac­tions of conspiracy theorists who claim the sandy hook elementary school shooting was a fabrication — they’re called sandy hoaxers, and their moni­ker is the only clever thing about them. nonetheless, directors caroline clark and kelly Quinn do an admirable job of not passing judgment during their personal interactions with the hoax­ers. hoaxers like wolfgang halbig will infuriate viewers, but clark and Quinn remain even-keeled. 
The duo displays even more restraint when documenting their interactions with lenny pozner, the father of the youngest child killed in the shooting. 
close-ups of pozner’s feet and hands fill the screen and obscure his identity, yet his closely mic’d dialogue provides an intimate and direct window into his heart and soul. 
in “no presentation,” eric ways and John mcdonough tell the story of a pan­icked college student convinced he’s going to have to drop out of school if he can’t get his two incredibly hungover group members to their business pre­sentation on time. The juxtaposition of the main character’s almost obsessive personality with the complete apathy of his project partners is hilarious and made all the more absorbing by the piece’s creative filming techniques. 
“John and i wanted the film to feel like people would be drunk watching it,” ways said. 
The piece will certainly leave you wondering what, if anything, was real. 
Filming the pieces themselves is often as much of an adventure as the finished product. complications with equip­ment, location and actors often arise to make trouble for filmmakers. 
“Trying to do the last scene, i re­member going out and telling the cam­pus landscape people to turn off their equipment for five minutes so we could finish [filming],” ways said. 
in a different vein, emily dauer and John haley combined their talents to produce “platonica,” a beautiful explo­ration of a college relationship between two women that went wrong, but per­haps still has a chance. each shot of the film is gorgeous, and the accompany­ing music perfectly conveys the overall mood of longing and hoping. students will recognize some of the settings of the scenes from around campus and south bend. 
“we really wanted our film to have a slice-of-life feel, to have characters who felt very real and natural and who the audience could relate to,” haley said. “we hoped for our film to function as a sort of chronology of a relationship, a set of excerpts from the personal stories of the characters that still came togeth­er to form a cohesive film narrative.” 
with films ranging from comedic to melancholic, the film festival has some­thing for everyone. Festival-goers will even be able to vote for their favorite film through text, and the most popu­lar film will be awarded the audience choice award. 
The notre dame student Film Festival will take place at 6:30 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m. Friday and saturday, and 7 
p.m. sunday in the browning cinema at the debartolo performing arts center. 
Contact Dakota Connell-Lewdon at  dconnel5@nd.edu and Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Why HONY works 
Michael Yu 
associate photo editor 

in my opinion, brandon stanton’s photography can be best described as “eh.” 
The photographer behind the trending Facebook page and blog, humans of new york (hony), stanton started his project almost five years ago but has kept his con­tent fairly consistent since. he shoots portraits of pass­ersby and includes a small note about their encounter. sometimes he posts pictures of quirky fashion. other times he posts a series of photos, detailing a person’s experience with issues such as drug abuse or death. 
The images themselves aren’t terrible, but they don’t warrant the international attention it garners. my main issues with hony are that with most of his shots, stanton bypasses the traditional standards for photography, such as the “rule of thirds” or leading lines. The colors are bland (but that’s new york city, i guess), and the back­grounds are almost never utilized to engage the viewers in the photos. his earlier works are also out of focus at times. in essence, the photos alone are too two-dimen­sional. it doesn’t come to life. 
but hony isn’t about the photography. it’s never been about the photography. 
stanton’s real talent is in the way he manages to draw these poignant, personal details out from these fragile people. his sincere approach to his subjects allows his subjects to confide in him, entrusting him with the most private sections of their lives for millions to see. 
i may be a notorious cynic, but i’m not going to deny what stanton has managed to accomplish through his work. sixteen million people on Facebook look at his posts and find empathy, joy and encouragement. he fos­ters charity and goodwill between netizens who barely know one another. he was so successful the united nations invited him to a worldwide tour to promote the millennium development goals and to illustrate living conditions in impoverished nations. 
it’s hard to imagine stanton won’t be the most recog­nized photographer of this decade, given his national ex­posure. his work has revitalized the conversation on how the photography community should look at our works and what this means for photography and photojournal­ism. not bad for an amateur. 
i have two favorite photographers: early 20th century war photographer robert capa and former chicago sun-Times photojournalist John h. white. each exhibit what i think are the essential elements to feature photography, ones stanton should perhaps look to apply. 
capa, at the frontlines of the lowest points of history, understood the potential in his camera and documented history and social dynamics with unique techniques, such as getting extremely close, using heavy color con­trasts to distinguish the main subject and finding the unbelievable. i’d like to invite you to look up some of John white’s photos as well, particularly his documentation of black chicago neighborhoods which won him the 1982 pulitzer prize for Feature photography. white is truly a person who feels his subjects from the inside, and uti­lizes all of his technical skills to convey the stories of that community. 
photographs, especially those designed to observe into the very core of their subjects, have traditionally carried its rhetoric on its own, not just relying on blocks of quota­tions to contextualize. photography has to inspire and be inspired. stanton has flexibility in how he presents his stories right now, but i believe he would also benefit from looking at these two people’s works. doing so will lead to more powerful and longer-lasting images that accurately document the personalities of this generation. 
Contact Michael Yu at cyu5@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
when a loser wins in iowa 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

monday, after the iowa votes are tabu­lated, democrats may sport two winners and republicans as many as four winners. only in american politics does a presidential candidate lose the actual vote count but beat expectations and get declared a winner. a media thirst for sensational storylines drives their overreach to hype expectations and skew how the public per­ceives the iowa caucus results. 
Feeling the bern? bernie sanders could lose by finishing a close second behind hillary clinton, yet be heralded as a winner for almost fulfilling his grassroots surge. The media story­line would echo his stump speech mantra about who would have thought a month ago the pre­sumptive frontrunner would be in such trouble? blah, blah and blah. 
expectations on the gop side are as chaotic as any debate spectacle. The republican third-place finisher is definitely a winner, having bro­ken above the rest of the pack as an alternative to the top two candidates. should Ted cruz then actually beat donald Trump by tabulating more votes, cruz would be the second winner of the evening. The third winner will be the fourth-place candidate who may live to credibly fight another day, i.e., in new hampshire the fol­lowing week. Finally, donald Trump’s national averages still maintain him a potential winner regardless if he falls short of his iowa surge. 
gauging political expectations is a journal­istic game played as far back as television’s in­fancy in 1960. John kennedy upset neighboring minnesotan hubert humphrey in wisconsin. yet political pundits questioned whether kennedy actually won since he only won catholic counties while humphrey prevailed in the protestant counties. They slogged next to predominately protestant west virginia where kennedy trounced humphrey through his use of a plane rather than a bus, with savvy media advertising and a slew of “hand money” on elec­tion day. after my cousins voted for kennedy, they could choose between a five-dollar bill or a bottle of Joe kennedy’s personal brand whiskey. They unanimously chose a bottle. 
paradoxically, iowa is important yet some­what inconsequential as the first in our presi­dential process. iowans from both political parties are steady and conscientious citizens with the luxury to choose their ideal candidate without the scope of national trends that shape the electorate in subsequent contests. iowans select on more emotional and ideological lines as evidenced by their extremely liberal and conservative views expressed across the iowan electorate. later primary voters consider other tangibles like electability. currently, clinton hovers around 46 percent overall in iowa polls but swamps sanders 77-12 percent in electabil­ity preference per wednesday’s Quinnipiac poll. 
who actually wins with the greatest number of votes on monday? The best indicator will come saturday evening when local pollster ann selzer releases the des moines register final poll. her long and accurate polling models are the envy of the industry, having only missed in 2004. during 2008 she forecast barrack obama. in her first iowa campaign of 1988, she per­suaded her editor to conduct a new poll when her data contradicted the newspaper’s predic­tion that george h. w. bush would win. she was correct when bush finished third with about 19 percent behind bob dole (37 percent) and pat buchanan (25 percent). 
as full disclosure, in 2008 i volunteered in burlington for hillary clinton and observed the caucus process firsthand. it is a fascinat­ing community gathering, sometimes centered around a potluck dinner so supporters are gathered at 7 p.m. when the doors officially close. voter turnout is absolutely paramount for victory. This year Ted cruz with his 99-county strategy and hillary clinton have the best iden­tification apparatus for turnout. it accounts for their slim margins currently held despite the Trump and sanders surges of late. 
on caucus night, democrats actually stand in areas of a room to be counted. candidates who miss a minimum viability threshold level of supporters must then move to caucus with another group or as uncommitted. despite lazy media reporting of a 15 percent minimum, that only applies to caucuses that choose 4 or more delegates. if a precinct chooses only 2 delegates, the viability threshold is 25 percent. These minimums make it nearly impossible for martin o’malley; so second choices may determine the democratic winner. 
To predict monday’s winners, one must ana­lyze each poll’s crosstab, which delves deep into the subsets of numbers. in 2008 after bill clinton spoke, internal polling showed that hillary gained 5 percent, mostly from John edwards. note that bill is averaging three events per day for the last half-dozen days be­fore monday’s caucus. votes are so vociferously sought that the final 2008 emmet county vote had clinton and edwards tied with 272 dele­gates followed by obama at 256. in my precinct, the total vote of 356 deciding 7 delegates tal­lied: obama 132, edwards 126 and clinton 118. 
unfortunately, iowa was beset by an ice storm in 2008, suppressing elderly voters who other­wise supported hillary. This year has that same electorate feel when 57 percent were new cau­cus voters (obama 41, clinton 29 and edwards 18). ironically, the youngest and oldest groups evenly split at 22 percent each: 17-29 (obama 57 percent) and 65+ (clinton 45 percent). Fortunately, monday’s weather forecast calls only for light snow. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter: @GaryJCaruso or via email: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Share your opinion! 
Tweet your Viewpoint in 140 characters or less 
Reply to @ObserverViewpnt and share your thoughts to be featured as our Tweet of The Day 

The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
New Mendoza policy limits exploration 

EDITORIAL 

in just a few days, applications are due for freshmen and transfer students who wish to enter the mendoza college of business. mendoza is one of five colleges and schools for undergraduates at the university, a number that will rise to six when the keough school of global affairs opens in the fall of 2017. according to 2014 sta­tistics, mendoza is the largest school on campus aside from the First year of studies, which, by default, in­cludes all freshmen. 
before last year, all high school seniors applying to notre dame submitted the same application regard­less of intended college or major. only a handful of special cases, typically architecture and other arts students, required extra steps in the application pro­cess. overall, applicants in years past could declare an intended yet non-binding major, and current sophomores, juniors and seniors retained the abil­ity to switch between any of the colleges, including mendoza. 
This older system had certain drawbacks, particu­larly for mendoza. Transfer students in this system were unable to attend mendoza as a business student, even if they already had business credits. Furthermore, mendoza placed enrollment caps on certain majors, based on grade point average and a few other contrib­uting factors, when too many students declared their intent for those majors, specifically the finance major. 
in addition to all of this, mendoza has seen a rapid influx of students interested in the college. as a result, mendoza has changed its admissions process begin­ning with the class of 2019. beginning with that class, applicants had the option to apply for pre-approval into mendoza. in addition to the regular application, mendoza applications require an additional portion and a marked intent to enter the college. students may be admitted to the university without being pre-ad­mitted to mendoza; in such cases, the university in­forms the student of his or her options, which include pursuing another course of study and re-applying into mendoza at the end of their freshman year, which presents a far slimmer chance of acceptance. 
in this new program, transfer students have a chance to matriculate into mendoza. Though it will most likely be extremely competitive, it is a great opportunity for transfers who want to enter the college. hopefully, the admissions cap will also allow business students to choose whichever field of business they desire. 
however, the new system is not without its flaws. it puts more pressure on high school seniors who could previously wait to choose their college of choice until completing the First year of studies. because the new mendoza admissions application forces students to make a major decision before their first year, the appli­cation further separates it from the other colleges and schools on campus. 
and although microeconomics is a large lecture pre­requisite class for business students, it is not too help­ful in deciding one’s major. mendoza could strengthen its course offering in the First year of studies with an introduction to business class for freshmen, similar to the introduction to engineering course offered to prospective engineering majors. This would allow in­tended business majors not only to see if mendoza is right for them, but also to discern which business ma­jor — accounting, finance, iT management, marketing or management consulting — is best for them. 
of course, these changes are necessary: as mendoza has become more and more popular, the college’s fac­ulty has been stretched thin. and the university does not have to look far for another school facing the same problem. recently, the saint mary’s nursing program has also seen an increase in applicants. in response to the rise, saint mary’s changed its application process for nursing majors in order to prevent the program from accepting more students than it could support. 
changes such as these to the mendoza application and enrollment process mark a dramatic shift for the university as a whole and for mendoza in particular. with applications to mendoza just around the corner, it is decision time for many students, a situation pre­vious students did not face. while it is laudable that these changes certainly provide more opportunities for enrollment to transfer students, it is unfortunate that notre dame now essentially forces applicants and freshmen to make a significant decision about their academic and professional future before they have the chance to explore their options during their first year of college, a long-standing practice that has for so many years made notre dame different from many of its peers in higher education. 

Meeting Lester Bennett 
Ken Bradford 
guest column 

i was on the edge of middle age when my writing ca­reer plopped into the toilet. 
looking back now, i recognize it was mainly my fault. i had enjoyed too much success early. at age 22, i was the youngest managing editor of a daily newspaper in my state. over the next two decades, at larger papers, i had shaken hands with a u.s. president, covered a mur­der trial that received national attention and seen brett Favre naked in a locker room after a packers victory at soldier Field in chicago. i had reorganized laggard de­partments in the newsroom. i had won awards, earned promotions and received annual bonuses. 
i didn’t adjust well when there was a regime change at my newspaper, and the new bosses didn’t seem to care whether i worked hard or not. For whatever reason, i found myself on the company’s margins, and that’s how i met lester bennett. 
his story, in a nutshell, was this: while digging in his garden in the backyard, he had uncovered some amazing stones that might prove the people who lived in ancient egypt actually had settled in america first. specifically, he said, they lived in his backyard. 
i didn’t know exactly what to expect at lester’s house. when i got there, i found that lester was a stooped-over older man with crazy albert einstein hair. his gray pants were caked at the knees with dirt the color of dead squirrels. he shook my hand gently with fingers that seemed lifeless and swollen. 
we stood at first in the shade of his porch as he gave me the bare-bones history of his life. he had grown up in this very neighborhood. he remembered walk­ing to grade school past an old quarry that has since been filled with dirt and populated with small houses. he had met his wife at a church dance. as i recall, they never had children of their own. he wished i could meet her but she had died six or seven months earlier, having been bedridden for the last 10 years of her life. 
after she died, he began to dig a garden in the back­yard, mainly for something to do. The ground there was hard with dense black soil. it was a long project because he could only dig a little at a time. once he cut through the black stuff, he had found a reddish-gray lower layer that contained a wide variety of small stones. 
at that point in his story-telling, lester reached into his jacket pocket. First, he gave me his magic black stone. it was smooth, the size of a prune. in all his dig­ging, he had found no other stone in the garden like it. i was the first person, other than him, to hold it. “Feel it?” he asked. “no matter how long you hold it, it stays cold. it can’t get warm.” 
he was right. on this warm day, it was a cold stone. 
his largest stone, about the size of a baseball card, had an intricate pattern of grooves. he turned it 90 de­grees because i was looking at it wrong. “doesn’t that look like a group of dancing girls?” he asked. “i think it’s a piece off of something a lot bigger. i would like to find someone to help me dig it up.” 
i looked at the dancing-girl stone and i looked at lester with his wild einstein hair, and i remembered Joe evans and these words: “ubi amor ibi oculus.” 
it’s a latin phrase i had read on the blackboard of a philosophy classroom in o’shaughnessy hall during a semester of my junior year at notre dame. as i recall, professor Joe evans wrote those words anew each time i attended his class. 
it was the mid-1970s, and i was majoring in american studies. There were legendary professors on the cam­pus then. Joe evans was said to be among them. i signed up for one of his classes. 
on the first day of class, professor evans wrote “ubi amor ibi oculus” on the board. he elaborately spoke each word, followed by the english translation — “to love is to see and,” with a long pause, “to see is to love.” 
he did that in every class, three mornings a week for the entire semester. i never missed a class, but i felt like i wasn’t learning a thing. but then, at his final lecture of the semester, he said all the same things he had been saying three days a week. This time, i couldn’t move my pen fast enough to record the insights i was receiving. i don’t know how he did it and i can’t explain it, but it was as if he had hammered a seed into my heart. 
i am not a notre dame zealot. i value the education i received there 40 years ago. i do think a lot of us at that place and in that time, if we were lucky, ended up in a classroom where we didn’t think we belonged, and we learned something that wasn’t on the blackboard. 
we moved on with our lives with some of those heart seedlings, whether they came from a snippet of scripture, a chance comment from a university legend like Father hesburgh or from a final lecture by professor evans. They remind us there are moments when we can stop measuring our lives by our awards and promotions and bonuses. 
For much of my life, like everyone else, i’ve survived on glances. you can’t look for insight every time a traffic light flashes from green to yellow or when you’re assem­bling your w2s for your 1040. we are in hurry-up mode. we look and we judge and we react. we finish and move. 
For whatever reason, i didn’t do that with lester bennett. one of my best friends had just gone through a liver transplant and died. my father was fighting a los­ing battle with colon cancer. i think i understood why lester went out one day and started digging a garden. 
i ended up writing a story different from the one he expected. it wasn’t about amazing stones, egypt or dancing girls. it was more about a man approaching the end of his days, hoping there was something splendid and magical still out there. The story didn’t win any awards. i think it ran on page d6 in one edition. one of the other editors saw it, liked something about it and ran it on d1 in a different edition. and that was that. 
professor evans’ lesson, for me, is that we have an opportunity when we run across people like lester. we can do the usual stoplight glance and decide he is a crazy old fool. or we can choose to “amor” and “ocu­lus,” to love and see, to see and to love. The reward may be that we understand ourselves better when we get to that same place, with our own einstein hair. 
our lives should be more than a total of what we’ve done. when our adventures are ending and we’re in our own little garden, we too will yearn for signs that our lives are splendid and magical. 
we’ll have to dig there, deeper, and we’ll need some­one to help. 
Ken Bradford is a retired writer and editor from the South Bend Tribune. He worked at The Observer for three years and graduated from Notre Dame in 1976. He can be contacted at kenbradford@comcast.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: collaborating with talented individuals will ensure that you are successful this year. check out what others have to offer and pull together a team that will help you reach your goals. you can get ahead personally and professionally if you are persistent and pay close attention to detail. good fortune will be yours if you are willing to be a team player. your numbers are 6, 15, 21, 28, 33, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): keep plugging away until you reach your destination. don’t let other interfere or make you feel inadequate. Trust in your abilities and use your skills to do what you do best. don’t let your emotions take over. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ve got the edge and the control to make things happen if you focus on doing your own thing. discuss your ideas and expand your plans until you have everything covered. leave time to celebrate with someone you love. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): rely on past experiences to lead you in the right direction. don’t trust anyone to take care of your affairs or do a job for you. good things will happen if you take responsibility and handle matters yourself. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t let anyone sway you in one direction or another. make your own choices, even if it is emotionally difficult. once you make a decision, you will know exactly what to do in order to keep things moving along efficiently. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): discuss your intentions and negotiate a way to ensure that everyone involved in your plan is content. once you set the pace, it won’t take long to deliver your message and get results. speak from the heart and you’ll get a good response. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): be a participant. get involved in events and activities that will broaden your outlook or challenge you physically. hold off if someone wants you to get involved in a joint venture. stick to sound investments. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): back away from anyone putting demands or pressures on you. make up your mind and stick to your decision. it’s important to let others know that you aren’t a chameleon. you can’t keep the peace by continually giving in. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you can make remarkable contributions to your community. what you have to offer will surprise others and position you for advancement. don’t let an old friend take advantage of you. call the shots and say “no” if someone steps out of line. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): your emotions may be difficult to deal with. don’t overreact if you are faced with a situation that isn’t going well. look for alternate ways to make the most of what you have. stick close to home. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): engage in talks and listen to proposals. There are good deals waiting for you. a personal relationship will take a turn. cut costs by being realistic about the way you want to move forward. a commitment can be made. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): pace yourself and stick to what you know you can do. don’t get involved in someone else’s plans. Try to follow your own path so that you can make the appropriate changes as you advance. Trust in the choices you make. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): use emotional persuasion to get what you want. your tactful way of getting others to see things your way will bring you recognition and a prominent position. romance is on the rise. make special plans for two. 

Birthday Baby: you are practical, astute and proactive. you are helpful and conscientious. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 






The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  
Home for Rent, avail. 2016-2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@gmail.com  Want a pro to help edit/polish your disserta­tion or other research paper? Utilize an experi­enced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com  

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | The observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY SMC BASKETBALL | calvin 81, smc 57 
‘Esports’ is not a sporting revolution 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
usually, i’m all for conver­sation: two (or more) sides to a story, approaching the same issue from different angles or backgrounds, work­ing together to establish a compromise or reimagine the issue, to see it in a new light. 
This time though, marek mazurek finds himself tread­ing down the wrong path. 
esports are not sports. They do not belong in the sports world or “american sports culture,” despite mazurek’s thoughts to the contrary. 
do they require an ex­tremely high level of men­tal skill and quickness? absolutely. 
do they require the abso­lute basic definition of physi­cal activity and prowess? i guess hand-eye coordina­tion to click on some things, maybe? 
do they have winners and losers? yes. 
do they have fairly large, loyal followings? 
you know what other activ­ities have all of these things? 
chess. checkers. rubik’s cube speed competitions. 
That’s the type of category in which these ‘egames’ be­long. egames are this genera­tion’s versions of chess clubs. They represent just another shift in bringing the pre-digi­tal world up to speed. 
are they more complex than chess? operationally, sure, since computers natu­rally seem to make that hap­pen, although i don’t know if i would go as far as to say these games are actually more complex than taking on current world champion magnus carlsen in a game of chess. 
mazurek, at the begin­ning of his piece, decided to set “aside the discussion of whether or not esports should be considered sports in the traditional sense” be­cause there is no argument to be made supporting egames’ case. 
i’ll agree with him on one thing: espn made a smart move jumping aboard the egames train, as evidenced by the numbers mazurek cites in his piece. 
however, this doesn’t come close to reserving a spot at the sporting table for egames. 
when espn began in 1979, it was an acronym for entertainment and sports programming network. 
egames fall under the entertainment section, again not a terrible thing. i’ve seen espn showing things like pool (trick shot competitions and nine-ball tournaments, for example), darts, poker or mini-golf. and yes, i did en­joy watching these events. i found them entertaining. 
i also find occasion­ally watching my friend play league of legends for a few minutes entertaining when i’m hanging out in his room on a lazy afternoon. so, yeah, i can’t fault espn for jump­ing on board, unlike colin cowherd. 
egames are not sports, though. That’s a discus­sion i’m willing to have with anyone. 
wannabe pundits push­ing the “egames are sports” agenda will immediately ask the question: what is a sport? and naturally, they’ll turn to the dictionary. according to the oxford english dictionary, a sport is “an activity involving physical exertion and skill in which an individual or team competes against another or others for entertainment.” 
it’s easy to see egames meet almost every requirement outlined in the definition of sport, except one: physical exertion. 
sure, according to the oxford’s extremely vague definition of exertion as “ef­fort,” clicking does require some physical effort. so does standing. so does talking, for that matter. so does breath­ing, while we’re on the topic. let’s make breathing a sport. 
if there’s a conversation worth having, it should be focused on establishing how much physical “effort” or “exertion” should be required for something to be consid­ered a sport. 
whatever that threshold is, it’s far beyond anything egames require. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

belles hang with calvin until fourth quarter in loss 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 

saint mary’s took one on the chin in a tough 81-57 loss to calvin in wednesday night’s game at angela athletic Facility. 
calvin (14-4, 9-1 miaa) controlled the game from the beginning, jumping out to a 17-4 lead six minutes in to the first quarter. however, saint mary’s (1-18, 1-9) did make a run of its own as the quarter closed, including a buzzer beater from senior guard sarah macius to cut the score to 21-13. 
calvin would reclaim its large lead with a 7-2 run to start the second quarter as the knights continued to give saint mary’s prob­lems on inbounds with their full court press en route to building a 37-26 halftime lead. 
coming out of the break, saint mary’s did its best to cut into that calvin lead. despite the belles’ strug­gles, it was only a 55-46 calvin lead heading into the fourth. but the belles continued to face relentless full court pressure, a strat­egy that finally paid off for calvin as they jumped out to a 20-point lead with six minutes remaining in the game, many of those points coming off turnovers. 
saint mary’s head coach Jennifer henley said she rec­ognized that no. 20 calvin is a good team, but she still felt her team gave them too much in the contest. 
“i thought we held our own for the first three quarters,” she said. “unfortunately we had lot of unforced turn­overs, and you have to give calvin credit, they didn’t just fall into their ranking, but i think we gave them a little too much and we pan­icked with the ball a little too much.” 
however, henley pointed to some positives for the belles to takeaway from the game. 
“i think that we shared the ball well and we got some good looks,” henley said. “now i know we have to finish those, but for the most part we gave ourselves a shot offensively. on the defensive side, we had some good box-outs at times, and we had some pretty good help-side defense. however, it just wasn’t enough for four quarters.” 
while the game did not turn out in saint mary’s fa­vor, one in particular bright spot was senior foward eleni shea. shea went 7-for­13 from the field in addition to a perfect 10-for-10 from the free-throw line to net a game-high 24 points. The team will hope for more of that as they head into their next game sunday at alma. 
“This is a team we’ve beaten, so we’re really look­ing forward to that game,” henley said. “it’s the second round of conference play and time is running out for these seniors, so our men­tality is to go up there and take care of business.” 
saint mary’s and alma will square off sunday at 1 
p.m. at the art smith arena in alma, michigan. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 
SWIMMING 

Irish look to send seniors off with final home victory 
By ALEX ELLYIN 
sports writer 

less than a month away from the acc champion­ships, notre dame will host its final home meet of the season this weekend with the shamrock invitational. The irish host iowa, illinois state, missouri state and grand canyon over the two-day meet. 
not only will rolfs aquatic center be packed with the four teams journeying to south bend, but irish fami­lies and friends will be on hand as well to honor the se­niors in what will be the final home meet of their careers. 
“i believe it is a very special time for our senior divers and swimmers,” irish head coach mike litzinger said. “They have made a four-year journey as a student athlete at the university of notre dame, which is not an easy task. They have seen many changes in the program, and have persevered for their team, their families and for notre dame. it is a wonder­ful tradition that we have in honoring these young men and women. 
“having their family and friends on hand makes it that much more special.” 
For the five seniors on the men’s team and the six on the women’s squad, an irish vic­tory at the invitational would make senior day all the more special, litzinger said. 
“our goals are to win the meet, practice our individu­al race plans, and honor our seniors in their last home meet,” litzinger said. 
For the irish as a team, this is more than a meet to honor the seniors. it is also a time to continue to prepare for the acc championships, as this is the final meet before the finals in mid-February. 
“i think it is extremely im­portant that we get some racing in for the last time,” litzinger said. “it is a quick check for our athletes in their primary events, and they have an opportunity to race in their secondary ones as well. The format is unique and puts us in a champion­ship mindset.” 
at last year’s shamrock invitational, the irish wom­en’s team was victorious while the men’s team came in a close second to iowa. 
competition will kick off at rolfs aquatic center at 5 
p.m. on Friday and continue on saturday. 
Contact Alex Ellyin at  aellyin@nd.edu 





Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 
despite the teams’ familiarity with one another, Jackson de­nied any sort of predictability to the matchup, though he said his team would have to play some of its best, most disciplined hockey in order to walk away with a win on Friday. 
“against any good teams, you have to play with discipline,” Jackson said. “penalties become a factor. Turnovers become a fac­tor. and frankly, you’re going to have to have great goaltending. we’re going to have to make sure that we protect the puck and stay out of the box.” 
Jackson said focus and ma­turity will be some of the main determining factors against the eagles. he credited his senior class with controlling the mood and focus of the locker room this season, one that includes a combined 15 freshmen and sophomores. 
“The teams that have played bc here in the past and won have been more mature,” Jackson said. “more upperclassmen. we beat them here last year, but we were chasing more than we were playing. 
“we have a really good senior class. even though two-thirds of our team are freshmen and sophomores, the senior class is still in charge and they’re still the leaders of this team. They’ve done a really good job of mak­ing sure the sophomores and the freshmen feel acclimated. i give them a lot of credit for the culture and camaraderie of our team be­cause they’re the ones molding things behind the scenes.” 
as good as the senior class has been, a pair of sophomores have taken to leading by example over the last 12 games. 
sophomore forward anders bjork has scored seven goals and tallied eight assists over the stretch, leading the team in points during the undefeated streak. sophomore starting goaltender cal petersen has also earned national attention, post­ing a 1.58 goals-against aver­age and a .947 save percentage during the streak. petersen’s numbers earned him his third hockey east defensive player of the week award on monday, his second such award over the course of the streak. 
The irish will look to add to those stats and claim second place in the conference stand­ings this Friday as they face off for a rematch against the eagles at 7:35 p.m. at the compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 


Track 
conTinued From page 12 

runners. Turner said he plans to rest his distance runners in preparation for the meyo invitational next saturday. 
“we don’t have a lot of our dis­tance people going this week,” Turner said. “we’re going to have them run at the meyo, and we’re going to go for some of our best times of the year at the meyo. … The majority of my squad will be competing in the other areas: the sprints, the jumps and the throws.” 
one jumper won’t participate this weekend, though. Junior nathan richartz, who achieved a personal jump of 5.30 meters at the notre dame invitational, pulled his hamstring in the pro­cess and will sit out the indiana relays. richartz, along with ju­nior weight thrower anthony shivers, have been two of the squad’s breakout field perform­ers, but both have struggled recently. richartz posted a ‘no height’ at the wisconsin invitational, meaning he failed to clear the bar at the meet’s lowest setting, and shivers regressed .13 meters during last week’s meet after nearly breaking a school record in wisconsin. Turner said he ex­pects both athletes to get back on track and improve as the sea­son progresses. 
“nate, he had that ‘no height’ at wisconsin. ... he is consistent except for that one blip,” Turner said. 
“anthony [shivers] didn’t throw as well as we thought he would [at the notre dame invitational] ...  and he has a chance again to step it up here at indiana. The most consistent he’s been is right now in his ca­reer. … he’s definitely someone who we’re going to depend on to score some big points for us come conference time.” 
other breakout perform­ers for the men’s squad include junior sprinters alex groesch and harvey smith. at the notre dame invitational, smith placed second in the 400-me­ter dash and groesch won the 200-meter dash. both athletes were also a part of the first-place 
paid adverTisemenT 
1,600-meter relay and Turner said they will both run the 200-meter dash, the 400-meter dash and the 400-meter relay along with sophomore drake stimson and junior conner stapleton. 
“Those two [smith and groesch] are running great right now,” Turner said. “i ex­pect them to be fast in every­thing they do.” 
The indiana relays begin at 6 
p.m. tomorrow night and con­clude on saturday. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | The observer 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
its groove and shot 39 per­cent from the field, 12.5 percent from beyond the arc and 41 percent from the free-throw line. 
“a lot of shots we normal­ly make — wide open shots 
— were off,” mcgraw said. “we were off tonight, and i just think … we’re in a little bit of a lull right now, but we fought through it.” 
a particular area of con­cern for mcgraw were notre dame’s struggles from the charity stripe. The irish made five of their last eight free throws but prior to that had only made 5-of-16. 
“i didn’t really think it was the [georgia Tech] de­fense,” mcgraw said of the team’s offensive woes. “we missed 14 free throws. They really weren’t guarding us at the free-throw line.” 
sophomore forward brianna Turner led the irish with 15 points, her third straight game with at least that many, while junior guard lindsay allen col­lected 14 points, her high­est output in a month. The two were also the only irish players to shoot above 50 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
guard steve vasturia as the buzzer sounded to end the half. irish turnovers were another key factor in the syracuse run. coming into the game, the irish aver­aged only nine turnovers per game, but the team coughed the ball up that many times in the first half alone. 
“nine turnovers in the first half really hurt us,” brey said. “we scored the first two possessions against the zone, and maybe you think you’re confident, and then i think we had four straight turnovers. and to have nine turnovers in that first half, very unlike us. we just never could dig out of it. 
“give syracuse credit, i thought they played great, certainly they were cor­nered a little bit.” 
vasturia took Jackson’s place at point guard and finished the night with 16 points, but the team never found its offensive rhythm against syracuse’s 2-3 zone defense. despite the team’s ball-handling woes, brey said he was impressed with vasturia’s ability to take over Jackson’s point guard duties. 

percent from the field, go­ing a combined 13-for-21. 
besides those two, how­ever, notre dame slogged through an off night. mcgraw said both gradu­ate student guard madison cable and sophomore kathryn westbeld were hampered by illness the week before the game, and the two combined for just seven points, though they were able to contribute 16 rebounds. on the night, the irish won the boards, collecting 43 to the yellow Jackets’ 36. 
defensively, meanwhile, notre dame put together its second straight game of 42 or fewer points allowed, a first this season. Turner led the irish on that side of the court as well, pulling down five defensive rebounds and blocking five shots. despite missing six games due to in­jury, Turner still ranks 25th in the nation in blocks. 
“it’s great for us to be able to win a game like that,” mcgraw said. “sometimes you have to win ugly, and even though we’re a team that usually likes to look good … it’s great that we had to battle it out.” 
each time notre dame seemed poised to break 
“steve vasturia was fabu­lous. he’s exhausted,” brey said. “we got to get him rest, having to handle the ball the whole night.” 
syracuse graduate student guard Trevor cooney led the way for the orange, scoring 14 points in the first half, while freshman forward Tyler lydon added 13 and six rebounds. cooney finished the game with 22 points. 
The second half started promisingly for the irish, as junior forward v.J. beachem rattled off five straight points to bring notre dame within 12. The miniature run was quickly stifled, how­ever, as syracuse freshman guard malachi richardson answered back with five points of his own. 
For the rest of the second half, syracuse never fal­tered. The orange never led by fewer than 15 points, and notre dame’s frustration began to show when fresh­man forward matt ryan got tangled up with richardson 12 minutes into the second half and the two had to be separated by the officials. ryan was 0-for-7 at the time of the altercation but fin­ished the game with seven points on 2-of-9 shooting. 
beachem was one of the lone bright spots for the irish on Thursday night. 
away from georgia Tech, the yellow Jackets rallied back behind senior forward aaliyah whiteside, who scored 12 points and pulled down eight rebounds. 
georgia Tech never led af­ter the seven-minute mark in the first quarter, but the yellow Jackets trailed by just six (26-20) at halftime and closed to within two in the third quarter, eventu­ally falling four behind go­ing into the game’s final 10 minutes. 
The fourth quarter proved to be decisive, however, as notre dame settled down somewhat from the free-throw line and lim­ited georgia Tech to eight points. mcgraw compared the team’s performance in the final quarter to its play against pittsburgh on Jan. 3, in which the irish were tied with the panthers af­ter three quarters but out­scored them 16-6 to win. 
notre dame has a rela­tively quick turnaround for its next game, as the irish travel to durham, north carolina, to play duke this monday. Tip-off is sched­uled for 6 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
The Fort wayne, indiana, native put up a career-high 22 points on 8-of-13 shoot­ing, including 5-of-8 on 3-point shots. senior for­ward Zach auguste ended his night with eight points and 10 rebounds and sopho­more forward bonzie colson chipped in nine points and 10 rebounds. despite the blowout loss, brey said he was proud of the effort his team showed. 
“i’m proud of our guys,” brey said. “everybody was working and trying hard. … For v.J., that’s a pretty good night for him to play against that zone and do what he did. and i give [freshman guard] rex pflueger a lot of credit, he had a tough night with some foul trouble. but he had six assists, he bat­tled. matt ryan battled, you know those young guys, we have to keep bringing them along. Zach auguste battled. … 
“you get your butt kicked but it only counts as one league loss, and you have to regroup and be ready to go sunday.” 
looking ahead, notre dame hosts wake Forest on sunday at 1 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish to kick off season against AF 

Observer Staff Report 
with notre dame head coach kevin corrigan enter­ing his 28th season roam­ing the sidelines, most of his legacy is already in place. 
he’s missing just one thing: a national champion­ship. and with three of his top four scorers returning from last year, corrigan’s chances seem high in 2016. 
notre dame, ranked sec­ond in the preseason polls, will kick of its 2016 season saturday with an exhibition matchup against air Force at meyo Field at the loftus sports center. 
while the irish lost a hand­ful of contributors on the 2015 squad to graduation, the core of the team stayed intact for the most part. leading notre dame will be candidates for the best attackman, midfielder and defender in the nation in se­nior matt kavanagh, junior sergio perkovic and senior matt landis, respectively. 
kavanagh, who had 27 goals and 25 assists last sea­son, is close to completing one of the most prolific ca­reers in notre dame lacrosse history, totaling 101 goals and 74 assists for 175 points in his three years on campus, good for fifth in program history. The irish also return perkovic, who led the team in goals last season with 34 in 15 games. on defense, the 6-foot-2 landis will start for the third straight year. he, along with kavanagh, was recently picked in the top five of the major league lacrosse draft held Jan. 22. 
and that does not even include sophomore attack mikey wynne, who shot onto the scene last year by tally­ing 33 goals. 
if the irish are to get over the hump, they will have to do it without the likes of at­tackman conor doyle, mid­filder/face-off specialist nick ossello and midfield­ers Jim marlatt and will corrigan, head coach kevin’s son. That group, which tal­lied 73 goals combined last season, all have exhausted their ncaa eligibility. 
while the regular season won’t start for notre dame until Feb. 20, this saturday its attention will turn to air Force. The Falcons are coming off a disappointing 8-7 2015 season but are just two years removed from an ncaa tournament berth. 
2016 will mark air Force’s first season in the southern conference after previ­ously playing as an inde­pendent. The Falcons were picked to finish third out of eight teams in the pre­season coaches’ poll, and sophomore attackman chris walsch was named to the preseason all-conference team. walsch led the Falcons with 37 goals and 55 points in 2015, and his goal output was good for second most all-time at air Force since 1994. 
notre dame and air Force will face off saturday at 12 
p.m. at meyo Field as the irish look to make their third straight Final Four and claim their first ever national title. 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | syracuse 81, nd 66 
ND falls without leader 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
no. 25 notre dame learned the importance of a top point guard last night, as the irish were blown out by syracuse, 81-66, without junior guard demetrius Jackson call­ing the shots at the carrier dome in syracuse, new york. 
“we’re a little different without demetrius Jackson,” irish head coach mike brey said. “we’re a little differ­ent group without him, but we may have to play another game without him so we can’t feel sorry for ourselves.” 
The irish (14-6, 5-3 acc) missed Jackson’s ball-han­dling skills from the get go against the orange (14-8, 4-5). after they scored the first five points of the game, poor shooting and turnovers by the irish led to a 23-1 run by syracuse. during the orange run, the irish were 0-for-7 from the field with three missed free throws. 
overall, notre dame went 4-of-14 shooting from be­yond the arc in the game’s first 20 minutes, including a half-court heave by junior 
see m bball PAGE 11 


HOCKEY 
irish, eagles set for pivotal showdown 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
notre dame seeks to extend its nation-leading 12-game unbeaten streak as they host rival boston college on Friday night in the second game of the season series. 
since the wild conclusion to the teams’ first meeting of the year, in which the irish clawed their way back from a 3-1 deficit in the third period to win on freshman defense-man dennis gilbert’s goal with 22 seconds remaining in regulation. 
The two teams have estab­lished themselves as top-10 collections of talent in col­lege hockey. boston college (16-4-4, 9-1-4 hea) enters this weekend’s play ranked fifth overall while the irish (14-4­7, 10-1-2 hea) earned their first top-10 ranking of the season this past week as they ascended to the no. 10 spot in the polls. 
both teams are well primed for postseason play, and both will look to take advantage of an opportunity to claim the top spot in the conference standings on Friday night. The irish and the eagles are tied for second place in hockey east with 22 points each. both teams trail con­ference frontrunner umass lowell by a single point. 
despite notre dame’s rela­tively recent entry into hockey east, they are no strangers to the boston college hockey team. The two have faced off 40 total times, with the series record almost dead even (bc leads the all-time series by a hair, 20-18-2). 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson did not hesitate when calling the eagles one of notre dame’s biggest and most enduring hockey rivals. 
“when we play bc, it’s a top-10 matchup,” Jackson said. “This year it is, and hopefully every year it is. bc is constantly in the top 10 in hockey, so you’re not just talking about playing a rival, you’re talking about playing one of the top three or four teams in hockey.” 
see hockey PAGE 10 
TRACK & FIELD 

squad looks to grow at iu relays 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
Following a rocky perfor­mance at the notre dame invitational, the irish will travel to bloomington, indiana, this weekend to compete in the indiana relays. 
last weekend, the irish placed fourth at their own meet in both the men’s and women’s competitions be­hind michigan, louisville and michigan state. irish head coach alan Turner said he expects more effort from his team in bloomington. 
“i think [the team] got the message,” Turner said. “if they didn’t, michigan and louisville definitely let them know that if you don’t bring the effort, you’re going to be in trouble. … nothing going to be easy for us. They have to learn how to com­pete a little bit harder. as a coach, that’s not something i really have to urge them to do, it’s already there. but we definitely got the wake up call last week, and we’ll be ready to go.” 
in  bloomington,  Turner  
said  the  irish  will  again  
face  tough  competition  

as louisville and indiana present challenges to notre dame. 
“This season doesn’t get any easier as we go along,” Turner said. “There’s go­ing to be some good quality teams at indiana. indiana themselves are getting a lot better in the sprints, so we’re going to have to have a true battle with them.” 
Turner also said his squads will run against louisville again in bloomington, as well as alabama, cincinnati and eastern illinois, one of the most dominant teams in the ohio valley conference. 
The indiana relays will fo­cus on the team’s sprinters as opposed to its distance 
see Track PAGE 10 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 54, georgia Tech 42 
Notre Dame grinds through poor offensive night in win 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 

it’s been a long time since notre dame has scored 54 or fewer points and still man­aged to scrape out a win. Ten 
years and two days,  to be  
exact.  
on Jan. 21, 2006,  notre  

dame topped georgetown on the road, 54-42. Thursday night, the third-ranked irish got the exact same result, this time holding off georgia Tech in atlanta to stay unde­feated in the acc. 
The yellow Jackets’ en­tered Thursday’s game 13th in the conference in scoring defense, allowing an aver­age of 63.7 points per game, while notre dame (20-1, 8-0 acc) owned the top offense by points per game, field goal percentage and 3-point percentage in the acc. 
but head coach muffet mcgraw’s squad never found 
see wbball PAGE 11 

GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer 
Irish sophomore forward Brianna Turner dribbles upcourt in Notre Dame’s 79-66 win over Tennessee on Jan. 18 at Purcell Pavilion. 





