The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 90 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Keenan Revue celebrates 40 years 
Continuing the tradition, the men of Keenan Hall perform in the annual variety show 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
since its inception 40 years ago, the keenan revue has been performed in three dif­ferent locations, kicked off saint mary’s campus, shamed various times in The observer viewpoint section and, despite all, endured as a campus tra­dition. started in 1976 by two keenan hall ras, Thomas lenz and richard Thomas, class of 1977, as an alternative activity to the drinking culture on cam­pus, the “new keenan revue” opened nov. 6 in washington hall. 
“it began junior year when rick and i were in keenan hall 
— there was a real tragedy for the hall,” lenz said. “one of our classmates — he was hit by a car coming back from michigan after having been at a bar. it was one of those really shock­ing and sobering moments for our dorm, to really consider the role that alcohol played at a lot of social events and in the dorm’s life. 
“That was kind of the context for people saying, ‘okay, so get­ting wasted every weekend is one thing to do, but what else could the dorm do that would contribute to the growth of the dorm spirit and to the health of the community?’” 
over the summer, lenz, a member of the glee club, and Thomas, who had participated in theatre in high school, began discussing the idea of holding a hall-wide variety show, lenz 
see revue PAGE 5 

EMMET FARNAN  | The Observer 
The annual Keenan Revue celebrates its 40th year with “The New Keenan Revue: The 40 Year Old Version.” Two Keenan Hall RAs started the show in 1976 as an alternative activity to the drinking culture. 



Voter turnout increases in student body election 
Observer Staff Report 
Judicial council released official percentages for voter turnout and election results from the race for student body president and vice pres­ident in an email Thursday morning. 
according to the email, the winning ticket — junior corey robinson and sopho­more rebecca blais — gar­nered 59.41 percent of the votes cast in wednesday’s election. 

overall, voter turnout this year was 59 percent of the un­dergraduate student body, up from 45 percent in last year’s student body election and 46 percent the year before. 
Juniors louis bertolotti and elizabeth Fenton came in sec­ond place with 19.55 percent of vote, and juniors dominic alberigi and Jenn cha came in third with 15.63 percent. in addition, 5.41 percent of vot­ers chose to abstain, accord­ing to Thursday’s email. 
robinson and blais will take office april 1. 

Club pushes for more  civil political dialogue 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
as election season pro­gresses, ndvotes ’16 will be hosting a training session aimed at improving pub­lic dialogue titled “voter mobilization: Training in civic reflection” this saturday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., as part of its broader goal of initiating conver­sations on campus about political and civic actions. 

rosie mcdowell, faculty advisor for ndvotes ’16, said this student-driven train­ing session aims to give stu­dents more opportunities for involvement and to in­form them about the voter registration process. 
“[The training opportuni­ties] are on issues that were selected by students and what they said was impor­tant,” mcdowell said. “The idea is to give students op­portunities to become in­volved in civic and political issues and to stay active in the causes and issues im­portant to them beyond the election.” 
The free training will be facilitated by student lead­ers and is sponsored by indiana campus compact. The student-to-student 
see ndvoTes PAGE 4 

visiting professor analyzes sexuality in Taiwan 

By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
saint mary’s hosted amy brainer, assistant professor of women and gender studies at the university of michigan­dearborn, Thursday night to present her recent research on lgbTQ people coming out in Taiwan. 
brainer is currently working on a book manuscript tenta­tively titled “gendering home: Queer kinship and Family change in Taiwan,” and her re­search focuses on families in east asia. 
The term ‘coming out’ is largely a term used in the west, brainer said, and outwardly identifying oneself as lgbTQ is uncommon in Taiwan. 
brainer said she had met a couple in a long term same-sex relationship, but they had not directly identified themselves as lgbTQ.“The pathway of 
see Taiwan PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 bengal bouTs PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney                        cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What should Notre Dame give up for Lent? 

Joe Grady 
junior 
st. edward’s hall 
“burger king.” 
Casey Dugan 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“The dining hall should give up their grilled cheeses.” 
Pat Gordon 
sophomore 
keough hall 
“indian night at the dining hall.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Tom Hite 
senior dillon hall 
“Fever.” 
Austin Hunt 
senior 
dillon hall 
“The chainsmokers.” 
Bianca Jurewicz 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“late night Taco bell.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
nicole caratas hunter mcdaniel martha reilly 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

ND Women’s Tennis Men’s Basketball vs. ND Women’s The Alchemy of “Getting Started in 
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 
vs. Pittsburgh Louisville Basketball vs. Miami Vacuum Research” 
Eck Tennis Pavillion Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion Snite Museum of Art Brownson Hall 
3:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-7 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p..m 
Corrections 

The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Play4KAY game for Seminar on light-matter Learn how to launch a 
The observer regards itself as Panthers. Cardinals. women’s cancers. states. creative endeavor. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Pink Zone Spin-A-Men’s Rowing Erg-A-Bengal Bouts Core Curriculum Film: “Les 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Thon Thon Preliminaries Open Forum Miserables” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Rockne Memorial Joyce Center Joyce Center McKenna Hall LaFortune Student 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
12 p.m.-12 a.m. All Day 3 p.m.-8 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Cycling for breast Donate to pancreatic The 86th annual men’s Faculty and staff  7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

cancer research. cancer research. boxing tournament. discuss proposal. Snacks will be served. 


Spin-A-Thon raises money for cancer research 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
The notre dame women’s basketball team’s pink Zone fundraiser kicks off Friday at noon the 12-hour spin-a-Thon at the rockne memorial to raise money and awareness for breast cancer research. 
north carolina state head coach kay yow, who died in 2009 from breast cancer, started the pink Zone in 2007 as a competition to see which women’s basketball team could raise the most money for breast cancer research, and notre dame’s women’s basketball team has contin­ued to make the event its sig­nature cause. 
“it originally started as a competition for all of women’s basketball, and we just kept going with it,” sharla lewis, special events coordinator for the women’s basketball team, said. “They’ve renamed it to play 4kay, but we keep it at pink Zone because all of our fund doesn’t go to the kay yow [cancer Fund.] seventy-five percent goes to st. Joseph regional medical center, then we have five percent that goes to riverbank cancer services and then the other 20 percent goes to kay yow.” 
Tabbitha ashford, fitness and instructional program coordinator for recsports, said the spin-a-Thon is a more recent addition to the pink Zone, which originally started with the pink game played ev­ery year by the women’s bas­ketball team. 
“This is our fifth [spin-a-Thon], but i believe women’s basketball has been involved six or seven years now,” she said. “originally it was 24 hours, noon to noon, Friday through saturday. … we keep it very basic, so this year it’s $12, but if you want to ride one hour or 12, you can do what­ever you prefer.” 
ashford said there is always something to occupy the bik­ers’ time. 
“some of those hours are, ‘hey, we’ve got an instructor coming to teach a class, come get a workout in.’ and then other hours are simply, ‘hey, come sit on the bike, we’ve got a movie going on,’” ashford said. “i find the community here is really great about just wanting to be a part of it.” 
lewis said in addition to the players who stop in at the spin-a-Thon, women’s bas­ketball head coach muffet mcgraw is active in the event. 
“[coach mcgraw] is going to be there at noon on Friday. she looks at this as a way for her to give back, and a lot of times it’s hard for her to get out there, especially during the season, but this is a way for her to be able to give back,” lewis said. “it’s amazing, i’ve never seen anything like it, and people love coach mcgraw, and coach mcgraw loves and ap­preciates her fans.” 
senior guard hannah huffman said she appreci­ates the spin-a-Thon as an opportunity to support the team’s fans and thank them for their support throughout the season. 
“i just think it’s a really great way to give back, be­cause usually the people who are on the bikes either know someone who’s had breast cancer or had breast cancer themselves,” she said. “it’s just really awesome that we get to go encourage them. a lot of them are fans too, and they come and support us, and we’re just playing basket­ball, and they’re really doing something for a great cause, so it’s really nice that we’re able to go out there and en­courage them as well.” 
in addition to money raised through donations and par­ticipation in the spin-a-Thon, the team is raising money through a fundraiser with blaze pizza on eddy street this year, selling merchan­dise at games and auction­ing items donated by various members of the notre dame community, lewis said. 
“i’m just amazed about how we support each other,” she said. “we have a bible that’s personalized by [university president Fr. John] Jenkins. it’s amazing how people see the cause and want to be able to help and participate.” 
ashford said the highlight of the pink Zone, though, is the pink game against miami at 1 p.m. sunday. 
“a lot of [students] may come to the spin-a-Thon, but i think they miss out not go­ing to the game,” she said. “it’s not the same as every other game, and it really brings ev­erything together.” 
huffman echoed that sen­timent and said the pink game is now one of the games she looks forward to on the schedule every year. 
“it’s definitely one of the coolest games,” she said. “i think it’s really cool to see 

Professors explore global religions 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
as part of its “campus conversations” initiative, which aims to raise awareness about underrepresented soci­etal issues, student diversity board (sdb) hosted a discus­sion about global religion at saint mary’s on Thursday. 
The event featured religious studies professors stacy davis and phyllis kaminski, but stu­dents were also invited to en­gage in open dialogue directed at learning more about other faiths. clarifying misconcep­tions about stigmatized reli­gions promotes acceptance of various beliefs in an evolving world, kaminski said. 
“while a lot of people in the world identify as religious, and currently christianity in all its forms is the largest single body, islam will overtake us by the end of this century in terms of numbers,” kaminski said. 
davis said a recent inci­dent at wheaton college, in which political science pro­fessor larycia hawkins was fired after she wore a hijab and claimed muslims and christians worship the same god, proves that religion should serve as a unifying, rather than divisive, force. Though hawkins was a prac­ticing evangelical christian, she chose to stand in solidarity with persecuted muslim wom­en, who suffer from misrepre­sentation in the media, davis said. 

“religion does create bar­riers, and so the question be­comes ‘how do we not have to give the pessimistic stories, 
“Perhaps as we mature and develop over time, maybe that idea that we must be right at the expense of someone else is not neccesary anymore. Religion need not be used in simply exlusive terms.” 
Stacy Davis 
professor 
gender studies 

and how can we be positive about things?’” davis said. “either we are a people who work in community, or we are not, and if we are not, then we should not pretend that we are.” 
davis said people may think their own beliefs are superior, but this mindset hinders pro­gression into a diverse and ac­cepting world. 
“it becomes human nature to say, ‘we have this new idea, so clearly it must be better than everything that came be­fore it.’” davis said. “The ques­tion is whether that argument that sort of worked in the first or second century should work in the 21st.” 

as people stop judging and stereotyping, they can ac­knowledge value in other religions, which will help es­tablish a more inclusive soci­ety, according to davis. 
“perhaps as we mature and develop over time, maybe that idea that we must be right at the expense of someone else is not necessary anymore,” davis said. “religion need not be used in simply exclusive terms.” 
davis said her students have expressed more interest in learning about other religions over the past few years, which proves people can grow in un­derstanding and acceptance as they acquire information about unfamiliar beliefs. 
“That to me is a wonderful positive sign because it means you can diversify your pool of knowledge while maintaining whatever tradition is meaning­ful to you,” davis said. 
sdb president courtney lamar also said the topic of global religions is especial­ly pertinent at saint mary’s, where students embrace diversity. 
“i think it is important for students to be accepting of other beliefs because it’s key to being a well-rounded person,” lamar said. “what would it be like to have everyone be just like you? boring.” 
lamar said sdb hosted this event to help students celebrate and learn from differences in the saint mary’s community and around the world. 
“The information that stu­dents get can help tear down stereotypes they may have about different religions,” lamar said. “Through our ini­tiatives, events, projects and open conversations, we are one step closer to making saint mary’s a better place.” 
sdb vice president angela bukur said “campus conversations” helps students develop appreciation for other ways of life. 
“one of our goals for this semester is to create an inclu­sive community on campus and to bring together various perspectives to enrich people knowledge about topics facing our world,” bukur said. “we want students to learn how to respectfully listen to other people, even if they might not agree. we want them to take away a greater understand­ing of other opinions as well as knowledge about issues facing our world.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
so many fans come and sup­port such a great cause. The gym looks awesome as well. it’s just really cool to see the kind of support that they’re not only giving us but [also] giving a great cause.” 
lewis said the community’s support of the team and peo­ple battling breast cancer is clear at the pink game. 
“we ask that the cancer survivors come down, and we wrap around the baseline of the court and we either have our boxers or our rugby team come out, and they give the survivors roses while we have our halftime performance,” she said. 
huffman said the pink Zone fundraiser makes her understand her position as a student-athlete, the support of the fans and the cause. 
“i think sometimes we take for granted the platform that we’re able to be on as student-athletes, and i think that re­alizing that you can make a difference and do something so great is definitely satisfy­ing, and it makes you realize it’s just bigger than basket­ball,” she said. 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
vp named finalist 
Observer Staff Report 
miami university (ohio) has named former william k. warren Foundation dean of the college of science and current associ­ate provost and university vice president gregory crawford as the finalist in its search for a new presi­dent, according to a press release Thursday. 
“on behalf of the trustees, we wish to thank the faculty, staff, students, alumni and commu­nity members from all of miami’s campuses who contributed to this important process. we especially want to thank those who also served as members of the search committee,” chair of the board of Trustees david budig said in the press release. 
crawford served as dean of the college of science from 2008 to 2015. as an associate provost and university vice president, crawford led the notre dame california initiative, which aims to develop notre dame’s presence in the state through increased intern­ship and employment opportuni­ties, as well as greater recruitment of california high schools students to notre dame. 
notre dame declined to com­ment on the announcement until the search process is complete. 



SMC students, faculty choreograph dance 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
students from the depart­ment of communication stud­ies, dance and theatre will perform an inspired collec­tion of various dance genres this Friday and saturday in o’laughlin auditorium. 
laurie lowry, profes­sor of dance and theatre and choreographer for the performance, said the per­formance will encompass modern dance, jazz, ballet and baroque. The dances were also choreographed by professor michele kriner, alumna hannah Fischer and 
Taiwan 
conTinued From page 1 
coming out was not an iden­tity, but a relationship,” brainer said. 
she spent 16 months in Taiwan doing ethnographic fieldwork. brainer attended support group meetings for parents of lgbTQ children, workshops on queer fam­ily issues and other lgbTQ gatherings, such as the an­nual pride parade. 
in addition to the gather­ings, she was able to have extended visits in family homes. 
“The visits allowed me to get a feel for family life that i couldn’t catch through an interview,” brainer said. 
brainer interviewed 80 Taiwanese families during her visit and discovered that members of the lgbTQ com­munity would participate in heterosexual marriages. These marriages were based on love, but on the need to relieve family pressures and to carry on the paternal line of the family, she said. 
oftentimes families in Taiwan would have strate­gic silences in which a fam­ily would know, or assume, that a member is lgbTQ, but wouldn’t say anything or acknowledge it, brainer said. 
brainer recalled one students anna kiely, paxston koehl and Jing Zhu. 
“This performance is a col­lection of diverse style and themes,” lowry said. “The performance includes histor­ical dance from the courts of europe, contemporary ballet, various modern dance styles and a surprise that will bring a smile and thoughtful con­sideration to every viewer.” 
lowry said students are heavily involved in all stag­es of the performance. she said the stage manager and assistant managers are stu­dents in the department, and other students are part of the dance, theater, back stage 

middle aged man named bing, who struggled with the pressures of being gay and coming out to his family. 
brainer said bing told her, “you worry that if they come in and know this thing about you, it will sadden them. so 
“To understand these families, we must start from scratch and build new theories. There’s an urgent need for ethnographically grounded research. I do think comparisons are fruitful, but we do need to move [away] from a Taiwan and U.S. comparison” 
Amy Brainer 
professor 
gender and women’s studies 

you have to lock yourself be­hind the wall.” 
“in bing’s case,” brainer said, “silence represented distance, a wall,and a bur­den, separating himself from his family members.” 
after coming out to his family, bing felt a great crew, lighting, sound and costume design. 
according to lowry, the performance offers students the opportunity to express themselves creatively. 
“students will experience exposure to an artistic cre­ativity that allows contem­plative thoughts on life,” lowry said. “events that in­volve students in a creative experience strengthen and enhance exposure to life-changing questions on life experiences.” 
Jing Zhu, a junior mem­ber of the dance workshop ensemble, which will dance in six pieces of the 

relief, brainer said. when he came out, it was like the wall disappeared and he didn’t have to carry the bur­den anymore, she said. 
coming out is part of ac­cepting one’s own identity and contributes to better relationships, brainer said. 
“Then you become will­ing to share yourself with others and others become willing to share themselves with you also,” she said. 
brainer said researchers need to change how they study queer families around the world. 
“To understand these families, we must start from scratch and build new theo­ries,” she said. “There’s an urgent need for ethnograph­ically grounded research. i do think comparisons are fruitful, but we do need to move [away] from a Taiwan and us comparison.” 
sophomore liana o’grady said she found brainer’s presentation compelling due to the different pres­sures lgbTQ men and women face in the Taiwan culture. 
“i thought it was inter­esting how they were more concerned about their fam­ily and didn’t want ‘coming out’ to hinder their role,” o’grady said. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssynder01@saintmarys.edu 
performance, said she enjoys being a part of the perfor­mance because of the inter­actions she has with other people. 
“i love to dance,” Zhu said. “This program offers me the formal dance training and performing opportuni­ties that i need. also, i enjoy being part of the team and learning from other interest­ing dancers.” 
“The college experience of­fers opportunities to see and be a part of many artistic and performance-related activi­ties,” lowry said. “viewing an artistic event in person opens doors in our minds 
NDVotes 
conTinued From page 1 
leadership training is part of the civic reflection initiative at valparaiso university. 
according to the center for civic reflection, the civic 
“The whole goal of NDVotes is to create this non-partisan campaign. The point is to understand that people are coming from different points of views and values.” 
Rosie McDowell 
faculty advisor 
reflection initiative aims to have students “facilitate reflection dialogue about civic action and train other students to facilitate as well.” 
“i think dialogue has been important for a long time,” mcdowell said. “we’ve been working since 2012 to promote this idea called the virtues of dis­course, recognizing that people do have passions but to be an educated person and be an ac­tive member of society.” 
mcdowell said part of hav­ing constructive dialogue is to that help us contemplate life experiences.” 
Zhu encouraged students to attend the performance especially because members of the saint mary’s commu­nity created it. 
“This is a chance not only to be refreshed by a variety of dance but also to appreciate fellow students’ creativity,” she said. 
The performances will take place Friday at 7:30 p.m. and saturday at 2:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m in o’laughlin auditorium. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
recognize there will always be a multitude of perspectives and experiences brought to the table and to be able to handle those viewpoints in a non-reactionary way. 
“The goal of it is to have stu­dents have the conversations about issues that are important to them without breaking down and getting all partisan and disparag­ing,” mcdowell said. 
according to mcdowell, ndvotes ’16 has been meeting since last spring to design this po­litical series. some of the upcom­ing events in the spring include a discussion of income inequality as a campaign issue and a faculty panel on immigration. 
“The whole goal of ndvotes is to create this non-partisan campaign,” mcdowell said. “The point is to understand that people are coming from different points of views and values. i want stu­dents to feel like they have the skills and the conversation to have a respectful dialogue and conversation.” 
since the club has been created, mcdowell said it has witnessed a huge uptake in the number of stu­dents who have registered to vote, especially in the past week when around 500 students registered. 
“attend the events, find out who your ndvotes dorm liaison is, get signed up with Turbovote and don’t shy away from engag­ing,” mcdowell said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 




“by the time we had the 
Revue 
opening, we knew that it 
conTinued From page 1 

was going to be good but it was just really good. it just said. blew everyone away — us 
“we had done a ‘mr. included — and so part of keenan’ contest the year the lore is that there was so before, so the idea wasn’t much demand that we end-completely foreign,” lenz ed up producing it a second said. “we said, ‘let’s give it time in the subsequent week a shot,’ and ... after we got because there were so many the approval, one of the key people who couldn’t get things was, as ras, our job tickets.” was to talk to people, to get in 1979, there was fear the to really know the guys in revue would be unable to your section, to have a feel proceed as planned due to for the dorm, so we had a “electrical wiring changes” hunch that there would be in washington hall, accord-some talent and people who ing to an observer article. would be interested in this, “donald dedrick, director but, candidly, the scale and of the physical plant, stated the quality of the people that his staff is ‘installing a who participated was way, portable dimmer board for way above anything we had a functioning lighting sys-expected.” tem.’ Therefore, the wiring 
in contrast to the more re-changes will not be interfer­cent revues, the first revue ing with the revue and will was mostly a variety show, be completed by dec. 1, he lenz said. said,” the article stated. 
“we had all kinds of acts however, in 1980, the 
— we had a guy who was a revue moved to o’laughlin juggler, someone read po-auditorium on saint mary’s etry, we had a guy who did campus due to a lack of space a violin solo,” lenz said. “in in washington hall, accord-its initial conception, it was ing to an observer article. really a form for all kinds of The 1983 revue was the notre dame female stu-be incongruent with saint to be featured in the show, talent — musical and dra-first revue to break even in dents also felt that the revue mary’s college mission rizzuto said. as for the matic talent in the dorm.” terms of finances, and the was derogatory towards and values,” vice president slightly checkered past of 
lenz and Thomas held au-1984 revue was the first women, according to a 1999 of college relations shari the revue, rizzuto said that ditions for performers and revue to be available on vid-observer article. rodriguez said in the Feb. will continue. were surprised by the tal-eo tape, according to a 1984 “i went my freshmen year 18 article. “saint mary’s “The revue’s slightly con­ent in the dorm, lenz said. observer article. [to the revue] and left in the college strives to treat all troversial nature is exactly 
“The show is designed to middle because i found it of-individuals with dignity and why it’s remained such a bring together the talents fensive to myself and other respect.” prominent university tra­
“[The show’s 

and efforts of the hall mem-groups that were targeted, in 2011, the revue moved dition,” rizzuto said. “The director] and bers,” randy Fahs, class of even though i might not have to stepan center, where it beautiful thing about writ-I started our 1984 said in the article. “it is been a part of these groups,” continues to be held to this ing comedy is what you can time as director as fun for them as it for the president of the Feminist day. despite its controver-say with it. it can turn a mir­
audience. it must never be-collective kelly curtis sies, the revue remains a ror on the student body and 
and producer 

come a ‘job’ for its partici-said in the article. “i’m not well-loved tradition on cam-the administration and make 
by watching the 

pants, and it must remain against humor and parody pus, Thomas said. people listen to arguments Revues from the free of charge. it is keenan’s jokes in which everyone “i think the revue filled a that they’d normally tune past. We also gift to the community, and is included and can laugh need – we were a big hit on out. 
it should never be used as a about, but there is a sharp campus that first year, so “we all love calling [breen­
looked through old 

money-maker.” difference between that and i’m not surprised it was con-phillips] fat and reminding 
programs to see 

heeding this advice, hall what the keenan revue is.” tinued,” Thomas said. “That carroll that they’re far away, what we wanted presidents’ council sub-in 2000, saint mary’s board first year, the underclassmen but those jokes do not chal­to bring back – sidized the revue in 1986. of governance voted to allow were talking about doing it lenge anything,” he said. 
however, 1991 marked the the revue to remain on saint again already because every-“The revue is truly itself 
obviously, with 

beginnings of saint mary’s mary’s campus. one felt that community, the and is truly great when we 
our show’s title 

split with the revue, ac-by 2004, controversy sur-community spirit it brought, are pushing boundaries and ‘The New Keenan cording to a 1991 observer rounding the revue was so so they wanted to keep doing whenever you are pushing article. charged that the observer it.” boundaries, you are being 
Revue: The 40 

“The staging of the keenan editorial board weighed in This year’s revue incorpo-controversial to someone. 
Year Old Version,’ 

revue was also discussed. on the issue, urging students rates aspects of revues from “we want people to come 
we wanted to 

saint mary’s students ex-to “lighten up on the keenan the past but also includes and laugh at our bp, carroll call back the pressed disgust at the large revue.” new content, senior produc-and Zahm jokes, but when we amount of saint mary’s “Their material focuses er of the revue ryan rizzuto have a skit addressing issues 
first Revue from 

‘bashing’ that took place at on aspects considered in-said. like race, gender, or socioeco­
1976.”” 

the keenan revue, which tegral to notre dame and “[The show’s director] nomic status and how they Ryan Rizzuto ironically took place on mocked groups should feel and i started our time as are dealt with on campus, senior producer saint mary’s campus,” the more honored than insult-director and producer by that’s when we’re being the 
article read. “‘we should not ed,” the Jan. 30, 2004 edito-watching the revues from right kind of controversial.” however, the most surpris-allow the putting down of rial read. “it’s good-natured the past,” rizzuto said. “we Thomas said the tradition ing talents were not on stage, smc on our own campus,’ banter, highlighting and also looked through old pro-of notre dame is what has lenz said. said melissa whelan.” teasing elements of the grams to see what we want-carried the revue all these 
“The other thing that was in 1996, keenan invited the notre dame community. it’s ed to bring back – obviously, years. kind of unanticipated was saint mary’s student body saturday night live, south with our show’s title ‘The “notre dame is very tra­the other kind of talent in president and senate rep-bend-style.” new keenan revue: The 40 dition-oriented, and i’m not the dorm — people that de-resentative to preview the The show continued to be year old version,’ we wanted surprised that it continued signed the sets, people that revue at its dress rehearsal, held on saint mary’s cam-to call back the first revue because of the drive and the did the publicity … we even according to an observer pus until Feb. 18, 2010, when from 1976. talent of the people who go to had a pit orchestra,” lenz article. saint mary’s administrators “rick Thomas and Tom notre dame,” Thomas said. said. “a whole set of people “The discussion is not cen-voted that the revue was lenz will be giving a short “once this thing had traction just emerged that gave it sorship,” saint mary’s stu-“incongruent” with the mis-speech at the Friday show and there was a foundation kind of a polish that we had dent body president at the sion of the college, accord-and we, for the first time for it — it really doesn’t sur­not anticipated. it morphed time, sarah sullivan, said in ing to an observer article. ever, are bringing back a prise me that it’s been going from being kind of ‘oh, the article. “it’s just a fore-“The cabinet finds the skit from the past for the for 40 years.” this’ll be kind of fun, kind warning. i want to make sexual nature of the skits saturday show.” of funny,’ to kind of looking sure no personal attacks are as well as the inappropri-of the 64 skits pitched Contact Kayla Mullen at  like a real production. made.” ate references to women to this year, 21 were selected kmullen2@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

So you think you can’t draw? 
Wei Cao 
multimedia editor 
you should totally draw. 

my experience as an amateur artist has brought me to many different worlds — not “different plan­ets” worlds, more like “spontaneity of the mind” worlds where you can invent anything you can think of with your imagination. like writing poetry or composing music, drawing is a great creative outlet the average person seems to dismiss far too easily. but with drawing comes the gift of something you really can’t find anywhere else: an inflated ego. 
Thinking i’m “all that” doesn’t come without con­sequence. once, while i was detailing harry potter’s mug in colored pencil and crayon, a colleague leaned over my shoulder and said, “wow, that’s so good!” now, i enjoy compliments as much as anyone does, and part of the reason i make art is to shame­lessly show off. subsequently, i heard “i wish i could draw like that,” but in an almost regretful tone, which made me feel as though i’ve done a disservice for knowing how to draw a recognizable face. 
what do i make of this situation? can being too good at something have a negative impact on others? should i stop doing what i enjoy, which doesn’t ac­tively harm others, to avoid confrontation? These are all questions i mulled over and in a few moments, simply threw away. i had to move on, focusing my energy on myself and my work. 
The great thing about art is that there are no rules: you can draw a bear head on a chicken body and name it John cena. you can also forgo any sem­blance of form and pull a Jackson pollock, who, as you can see with a google image search, created chaotic pieces of incredibly abstract art with the side effect of becoming famous. in any case, you have full freedom and control over what you put down on paper — whatever you draw is yours. and that is the great egotistical quality of a drawing: an exag­gerated sense of self-importance, just because you created it. 
one phrase i find hard to respond to is “i cannot draw.” it’s a mindset that makes a faulty assumption. realistically speaking, drawing is a technical ability that takes time to build. years in, you accrue skills that depend only on the effort you put into honing them. yet, going all-in on realism as the be-all, end-all qualifier for “good art” distracts from the creative noodling that is the primary engine of any creative endeavor. 
we’ve all doodled at least marginally and at the very least in the margins of our notes, but if you re­ally think you cannot draw, consider this: all babies are chumps. There are 20 million children under four years old in the united states, and they prob­ably have not developed fine motor skills, cannot write and, if under six months old, have not even developed basic object permanence. The only thing babies have going for them is that they are unaware of standards by which they can compare themselves to others. 
you, on the other hand, can pick out exact change from your overcrowded wallet, write and type pages upon pages of notes and papers and have developed your object permanence to the point where you are confident that person down your hall is breaking parietals. with an abundance of paper on campus and a cornucopia of hidden free pens, the only thing holding you back is finding the time to do a doodle. 
drawing is fun. you should try it out. 
Contact Wei Cao at wcao@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fire nFl commissioner roger goodell 

Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
in spite of sunday’s nFl glitzy super champi­onship golden anniversary extravaganza, the $10 billion entertainment enterprise suffers from systemic failures that would best be corrected by releasing commissioner roger goodell. goodell’s public happy face belies his unsteady — some may strenuously argue hypocritical — policies, which have split the sport. The league standards fail to maintain uniform player conduct and club operations under a single mission. one need look no further than the opposing benches during lady gaga’s inspirational rendition of our na­tional anthem sunday. one team’s players stood, reverently erect with hands held over hearts, the other was fidgeting and distracted. 
curing the nFl requires a dualistic ap­proach. owners should replace goodell, re­align the divisions to promote parity, add more wild card teams to the playoffs, better restrict performance-enhancing and recreational drug abuse and at least provide lifetime health insur­ance coverage for its retired battered gladia­tors. To enhance excitement, increase revenue and expand team participation, owners should revamp the season and playoff structure. as it is now, the new england patriots might as well begin their season in week seven with a 5-1 re­cord considering how pathetic their division rivals are. drop the miami dolphins and add the baltimore ravens for a more competitive region. Furthermore, each conference should add two wild card teams, so all playoff teams play without byes. The division winners host the first round, then the teams with the best records host the remaining games. 
nFl ethical standards should uniformly adhere to civil law by demanding the highest standard of conduct from its players, both on and off the field, that reflects positively on the sport at all times. The core code of conduct should train an eye on character and sportsmanship in order to positively influence young admirers who seek to emulate players. That means players who do not like to lose and consider a good loser simply as a loser should learn humility and act like adults at a super bowl press conference by thoroughly an­swering questions honestly in a heartfelt manner. 
on the field, core conduct means players should refrain from pregame trash talk replete with slurs and expletives in an attempt to in­timidate and incite opposing players. The nFl should establish a penalty box replay official at each game with the authority to eject players not caught during real-time action before events es­calate into a ruckus like that between new york giants receiver odell beckham and carolina panthers cornerbacks Josh norman and cortland Finnegan. sanctions should further hold coaches and team management responsible to assure their players act sportsmanlike at all times both on and off the field. 
inconsistently piecemeal remedies when con­fronted with public civil offenses have plagued goodell. The scale should include an unwavering minimum of discipline and rehabilitation stan­dards for any public misconduct such as brawling in bars, battering a domestic partner, sexually harassing others or public perception of overpaid arrogantly spoiled players. The league should better assist personal behavioral problems through dependency or psychological programs for cases like cleveland browns quarterback Johnny manziel. 
Talk about duplicity: mark march 3 on your cal­endars for round two of the “deflategate” saga, when goodell will return to court to appeal the ruling that overturned his four-game suspension against Tom brady. The upcoming court fiasco again accentuates goodell’s unsteady manage­ment throughout his tenure, which has hypocriti­cally targeted some conduct with vigor while turning a blind eye on others. one might think goodell’s legal training should have taught him not to act as judge, jury and executioner while commissioner. ask patriots owner robert kraft if he believes he and goodell came to terms and now feels betrayed by goodell’s actions during the “deflategate” fiasco. 
Zero tolerance should be the standard for un­sportsmanlike criminal-style actions on the field. The rules should ultimately strive to eliminate intentional injury. merely fining a high-salaried player $50,000 “chump change” for an infraction does little to deter or modify bad behavior. 
deliberate vontaze burfict-like personal injury assassination attempts that inflicted a concus­sion on pittsburgh steelers receiver antonio brown — arguably the best player in football 
— should also automatically carry suspensions against the aggressor (burfict) for as long as the victim (brown) cannot play, plus a suspen­sion the next time the teams play each other. a suspension at season’s end should apply to the next playoff game. repeated offenses should also carry an automatic suspension of the head coach and a hefty fine against the team ownership. 
goodell’s record of erratic reactive behavior rather than proactive administration began in 2006 when he took office as commissioner. steelers fans point to the fines against linebacker James harrison for penalties that did not inflict concussions — only three personal fouls in 2006, one in 2007 and two in both 2008 and 2009 — levied disproportionately in excessive amounts as an attempt by goodell to alter harrison’s hard-hitting nature. steelers nation believes the commissioner sought to prove his neutral­ity by overcompensating against harrison since goodell graduated from a suburban pittsburgh college. contrast that with goodell’s behavioral indifference today, which has allowed burfict to commit perpetual mayhem on the field. For that, the goodell effect diminishes the game today. 
given that goodell and Judge Judy command similar salaries hovering around $45 million yearly, that goodell comparison even greatly de­flates Judge Judy’s value. The nFl brand deserves better at the helm. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter at @GaryJCaruso or via email at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



We built inequality 
Adam Moeller 
bridging the gap 

This is an abridged version of the response to Mimi Teixeira’s column “Is Income Inequality Really that Bad?,” published two weeks ago, and the second installment of BridgeND’s income inequality series. Read the full response online at ndsmcobserver.com. All responses, arguments and constructive criticisms are welcome. 
The unequal distribution of wealth in our nation is a small part of a much larger structural problem, which unequally favors a few while systematically disadvan­taging many. while Teixeira argues income inequality is a natural byproduct of capitalism, i argue the op­posite. inequality in america is largely created. This systemic inequality is built on three foundations: the failings of federalism, past and present institutional racism and convoluted and inherently unequal fiscal policies. These structural inequalities are a funda­mental affront to the values of liberty and self-deter­mination enshrined in our founding documents. 
The failings of our federalist system play a crucial and too often unnoticed role in perpetuating inequal­ity. The negative effects are most evident in infra­structure and education — both of which are funded almost entirely by local tax bases. 
our infrastructure nationally is rated as a d+. like many national issues, this lack of infrastructure un­equally affects the poor. cities like Flint, michigan, lack the resources to replace lead pipes or remedy the situation that officials caused (mostly due to short­sighted fiscal policy). The burden of infrastructure repair and investment is placed almost entirely on local governments, which means poorer areas have tremendous difficulty securing funding for improve­ments. despite the fact that clean water and transpor­tation are universally considered fundamental rights, our federal system does not leave much room for a remedy when this is not the case. 
a similar problem exists in american education. gross disparities exist in funding and have not been met with any widespread remedy. This system of unequal funding means poorer children — who typi­cally have no choice in the schools they attend — al­most certainly receive a lower quality education than those students in wealthier districts. There has been immense pushback, typically enforced by the courts, to distribute education funding equitably. The idea of revenue sharing has been enacted in some states whereby all districts receive funding based on the same formula, not contingent on their tax base. but most states have chosen to dodge the divisive issue of school funding by leaving current, inequitable sys­tems intact. 
until lawmakers guarantee certain inherent rights like education and infrastructure, the gulf between rich and poor will only expand, and millions will continue to be denied their fundamental right to self-determination. 
and until we acknowledge the role race plays in in­equality, any efforts to address the problem will be se­verely hampered. poverty rates among people of color are more than two and a half times as high as they are among whites. unless you want to adopt a doctrine of racial inferiority, then it is necessary to address why certain populations are endemically disadvantaged. 
The remedies for this problem thus far have been to fix blatantly unjust laws while never addressing the roots of injustice. The law is patched and amended, and our government and our people effectively say “oops!” and move on, patting themselves on the back for being champions of equality and democracy. i do not advocate for a blame game; instead of apologizing and blaming, we should seek to make right what we had, in the past, done wrong. 
after reconstruction was abandoned, two main issues have had a particularly lasting effect today: schooling and housing. 
while many point to brown v. board of education as the end of racial inequality in america, this is not the case. while progress began to be made by the 1970s, in many ways america’s schools are just as segregated and unequal as they were before the civil rights act. local funding ensures inequality is reinforced in low income districts. even more troubling, several stud­ies have shown that majority-minority schools are funded significantly less than their majority-white counterparts of the same socioeconomic composi­tion. among other things, we need to strengthen affirmative action programs that consider both race and poverty. 
black americans have also been deprived of afford­able housing and healthy neighborhoods. many cities in the north and the federal government, until 1968, sanctioned a racial practice called redlining, which allowed banks to cordon off entire areas of cities where residents of color lived, marking them as unfit for investment, depriving millions of housing. worse yet, even after the 1968 Fair housing act, the practice continues. neighborhoods many excuse as products of “de facto” segregation were actually deliberately segregated and remain so. businesses fled or closed as disposable incomes dwindled due to unfair leas­ing agreements. schools lost adequate funding and qualified teachers. city governments and developers no longer invested in hospitals, cultural attractions or parks in these “bad neighborhoods,” and hence in­equality became cyclical. 
lastly, fiscal policies that create and sustain in­equality must be rooted out and rewritten. The tax code is so convoluted only the relatively well-off can navigate it and exploit the ample loopholes available. large corporations often end up paying far less than they should. The infamous citizens united case only makes income inequality more drastic, as money now has a direct and unfair role in the political realm. loopholes need to be closed, corporations and the rich need to follow fair tax laws, and lawmakers need to stand up to special interests and fix the broken and inequitable campaign finance system. 
inequalities that are determined by anything other than skills, contribution or hard work need to be ad­dressed and counteracted. it is not normal, it is not neutral, it is not natural. by claiming the glaring in­equalities in our society — racial, structural, econom­ic — are simply part of life, people willfully ignore reality. but when we throw around the terms income and opportunity equality for political expediency, we avoid having a substantive debate on the true causes of this issues and how we can come together to fix them.  The current level of income inequality in the united states is not a natural byproduct of capitalism. our nation has gradually constructed and continu­ously reinforced structures of inequality. it is time to face the facts and work to dismantle these artificial bulwarks that favor some at the expense of many. we created a monster, now it is our turn to tame it. 
Adam Moeller is a history and economics major with a minor in education, schooling and society living in Sorrin College. BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum together in discussions concerning public policy issues. The viewpoints expressed in this  article do not necessarily reflect the opinion of BridgeND but the individual opinions of the author. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter at @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

in response to ‘don’t deface the irish flag’ 
This letter is in response to “don’t deface the irish flag” by dearbhla Fay. let me begin by thanking you for caring for the perception of the american and irish flags. i can understand your frustration, but i must in good conscience as a free speech-supporting american offer a rebuttal. 
as you referenced in your letter, the Flag code of the united states contains the rules and regulations used by americans to render honors to old glory. This reverence toward the flag as a symbol of our country is not veneration to a cloth but all that it represents. 
it represents our common ideologies as outlined foremost in our constitution in addition to the sac­rifices of heroic americans who have dedicated their lives to defending it. The constitution — specifically the First amendment — guarantees free speech in many forms. it can come as a protest of the govern­ment without risk of violence or political retribution. it could come as a conspiracy theorist outside of a crowded venue wildly speculating bush conceived 9/11 and dick cheney is actually a lizard in disguise. it can even come as detestable hate speech, which we must allow to be spoken but should choose to ignore. 
it may also come through the act of burning and other defacement of the united states flag, as upheld in the case of Texas v. Johnson. 
These acts against our flag would make any american furious. i will admit i am repulsed by any individual who feels so self-righteous that he or she can disrespect those proud few who have defended this right. however, this is why americans have fought and continue to fight. They fought so anyone or any group could have the freedom to burn any piece of cloth or emblazon any depiction of the red, white and blue. 
Fay wrote that “the irish flag should not, under any circumstances, be used as an advertising board for any cause or organization,” but for generations, orga­nizations throughout the island have placed insignias calling for the cause of self-rule or british expulsion onto the flag. That must not be an issue, unless it has to do with americans being the ones pressing the logo, but let’s assume that’s not the case. 
i would be remiss not to mention the suspicious timing of the letter. as a junior, i have witnessed thousands of students bedecked and bedazzled with the green, white and orange. where was the student outcry then? did i miss the vehement epistle after our student section was mildly unsuccessful (to say the least) in unfurling the national flag of ireland? i will admit i might have, but a quick query through the observer archives suggests otherwise. 
i have a feeling the issue does not arise from the irish flag being “viewed as a symbol of notre dame,” as witnessed by a lack of any letter prior. instead, i believe the offense derived from its use in conjunc­tion with the march for life, though Fay claims this is not the case. america’s search for peace is an inspira­tion to causes of justice and righteousness across the world, fitting for the march for life, which is seeking justice for the unborn. ireland’s current laws on abor­tion are closer to a catholic solution to end the trav­esty of abortion, which is an ironic twist considering the perceived motivation for Fay’s letter. 
and by the way, if anyone is looking for a notre dame-themed american flag, it’s on the back wall of the bookstore, sold for $30. 
Pat Crane 
junior Feb. 8 


By ALI LOWERY 
scene writer 

The 2002 Tony-winning musical “Thoroughly modern millie” gained commercial success and popular praise throughout its 903-show run by giving broadway audiences what they had been yearning for years: the glitz of the 1920s, show-stopping show tunes and tap. The pasquerilla east musical company (pemco) tackles the broadway giant this weekend in washington hall, prov­ing that even problematic musicals can win over an audience. 
set during the flapper-drenched era of the prohibition, “millie” is the tale of a young, small-town woman moving on her own to the big city, her sights set on marrying her rich boss and “thoroughly modern”-izing her life — bob haircut and all. as one would expect in any ro­mantic musical comedy, miscommuni­cation ensues, love endures and a white slavery ring is shut down in the process. 
The production itself, while suffering from minor awkward scene transitions and rough stage-to-audience commu­nication at times, is able to captivate with its spunk and vibrancy. senior rose urankar, who plays the title role of millie dillmount, is charming and lik­able as the confident “new woman” and performs pleasant renditions of millie’s famous show-stopping numbers such as “gimme gimme.” 
The memorable vocal performances of the night, however, belong to matt marsland as Trevor graydon iii, whose beautiful tenor really shines in songs like “The speed Test” and “ah! sweet mystery of life/Falling in love with someone,” a duet that similarly high­lights the lovely soprano voice of miss dorothy, played by elizabeth charles. marisa Thompson, who plays famous widowed singer muzzy van hossmere, is believable in her role with a bluesy voice that nicely fills out tunes like “only in new york” that are strictly there for us to enjoy and in no way drive the plot. 
The show’s leading man, senior Joel ostdiek, hits his best note during his only solo, “what do i need with love,” an incredibly charismatic and won­derfully executed anti-love song that will probably be an audience favorite. another crowd pleaser, the creepy mrs. meers, owner of the hotel priscilla — which is really just a front for a boom­ing white slave trade operation— is played by Jon olansen, who is, yes, a male. while sometimes difficult to un­derstand due to the fake chinese accent the script requires of meers throughout a big portion of the show and somewhat confusing scenes involving weirdly placed closed captions that are difficult to read, olansen will get appreciation for his commitment to the role and comedic prowess. 
The show offers its best moments (or as millie calls them, “mo’s”) during group numbers like “Forget about The boy,” where tap dancing is the real star and the cast’s energy and love for this production really shines through. 
Quirky, dance-y and all-in-all enjoy­able, the show is not without controver­sy. “millie” has been criticized for its lack of sensitivity towards racial stereotypes and sexism, each a prominent aspect of life during the 1920s. however, aware that the musical utilizes the “submissive asian male” and “dragon lady” tropes one often finds in discriminatory art and literature, pemco’s letter to the edi­tor in The observer addresses the ways in which the creative team attempted to overcome these indisputable issues within the production’s script and score. by emphasizing mrs. meers’s role as the definitive villain of the show, rac­ism and all, fleshing out her/his loyal servants as more than one-dimension­al characters and offering a free panel after last night’s show to discuss the show’s ability to satirize xenophobia, sexism and discrimination, pemco is taking necessary steps towards a more politically correct arts environment here on campus. 
“Thoroughly Modern Millie” runs Feb. 11 through Feb. 13 in Washington Hall. 
Contact Ali Lowery at                            alowery1@nd.edu 


JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

… though it rarely is when dealing with the coen brothers. watching their latest confection, “hail, caesar!,” you’re reminded of the closing lines of an­other coen brothers movie, “burn after reading”: “so, that’s it then. no one else really knows anything. … what did we learn?” “i don’t know, sir.” “i don’t f---­-- know, either.” 
admittedly, “hail, caesar!” is not as marvelously pointless as “burn after reading.” This time around, the broth­ers Joel and ethan coen make grand statements about hollywood, celebrity and communism. nonetheless, “hail, caesar!” is characterized by the same sense of what-the-f--- confusion as “burn after reading.” 
and isn’t that what you want from a coen brothers movie? For fans of the coens, yes. but what about the uniniti­ated? considering the film’s marketing campaign, you might expect a relatively straightforward backstage thriller, in which a hollywood fixer (Josh brolin as devout catholic eddie mannix) res­cues a kidnapped movie star (george clooney as baird whitlock) from a shadowy organization (a dozen beard­ed dudes known as “The Future”). you might also expect that a gene kelly type (channing Tatum) and a busby berkeley starlet (scarlett Johansson) aid mannix in his quest, and for Jonah hill to be given considerable screen time. 
you’ve been duped. The plot is noth­ing like the film’s trailers suggest, be­cause, like “burn after reading,” “hail, caesar!” has no plot. The coens have always been iconoclasts, amused by toying with their audience’s expecta­tions. in “no country for old men,” genre aesthetics were merely the duo’s playthings. From their macabre sense of humor came the iconic wood chip­per scene in “Fargo.” in “hail, caesar!,” as per usual, the coens mix and match high and low culture, absurdist and dry humor, the sacred and the profane. For a film this silly, “hail, caesar!” is a real head-trip. 
it’s very likely the film’s deceptive trailers were spawned from the minds of money-hungry studio executives des­perate to increase the size of their audi­ence and profits. but i like to think the coens, having realized a film’s advertis­ing was the next logical frontier in audi­ence manipulation, crafted the lies. 
if you really were duped, you’re in for a treat, as “hail, caesar!” provides more to chew on than its trailers suggest. mannix is courted by executives from lockheed martin, who insist his current employer, capitol pictures, wastes his talents on a job that amounts to clean­ing up after “circus freaks.” capitol pictures is concerned only with swin­dling money from the public to serve an incompetent, undeserving elite — the movie stars, all of whom are depicted as idiots. lockheed martin, in connecting the world, provides a tangible service for the betterment of society — how egalitarian! or, at least, so claim the lockheed martin executives. watching mannix grapple with this pitch, observ­ing his inner conflict — his desire for the normal life offered by lockheed martin vs. his strange devotion to the capitalist machine that is hollywood — is one of the chief pleasures in watching “hail, caesar!” 
The intellectual gymnastics on dis­play are often funny too. sure, the level of film literacy the coens expect from their audience can be exasperating, but during a marvelously over-the-top sendup of “The hunt for red october,” you realize that if the coens hold us to a high standard, it’s often for the sake of big laughs. by the time mannix reaches the lowest, darkest point of his life, and he goes not to a church but to a replica of golgotha on a studio soundstage, you nearly die. 
if the coens, in so deftly juggling hu­mor and musings, have made a miscal­culation, it is in the screen time they allot to the supporting cast. channing Tatum is rarely seen outside of his su­perb song and dance number. as the highfalutin director laurence laurentz, ralph Fiennes is criminally underused, though his delivery of the line “cut” in the film’s best scene is alone worth the price of admission. 
“hail, caesar!” is a critique of indi­vidualism, artistic vision and entertain­ment: how does each shape the others? how does each shape us? at times, the thematic overload is confusing. Though when “hail, caesar!” ironically embrac­es the rank capitalism of hollywood and hilariously conflates that capital­ism and some higher power, the film’s through line becomes evident, and you see that, above all, this movie is utterly nihilistic. 
when i saw the movie, many people left the theater displeased by “hail, caesar!,” and i was quick to judge them for “not getting it.” i thought i had the last laugh. Though, after reflecting on my experience, after realizing this mov­ie is as much a critique of how we enjoy as it is of what we enjoy — that is, after realizing this movie is a critique of criti­cism — i must admit that the last laugh really goes to the coen brothers. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                   nlaurean@nd.edu 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
FRIDAY 


What: “The Life of Pablo” Kanye West When: All Day Where: In Your Ears How Much: Free 

put down whatever it is you’re doing and cancel all your plans for the day, kanye west’s highly anticipated new album “The life of pablo” is out. Find a stream of his live premiere from madison square garden, download a free trial of Tidal, steal your rich friend who already pays for Tidal’s account and take it in. but don’t form a concrete opinion on it until erin mcauliffe reviews it monday. 
SATURDAY 

What: Shout Section Big Band and Swing Night When: 10 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. Where: Legends Night Club How Much: Free for students 
head to legends on saturday night for the back-to-back bygone delights of chicago’s shout section big band and swing dance night. 
SUNDAY 

What: PEMCo Presents 
“Thoroughly Modern Millie” 
When: 7 p.m. 
Where: Washington Hall 
How Much: $7 for students, 
$10 for non-students 
despite the musical’s                                             inherent problems concerning race and gender, according to scene writer ali lowery, pemco puts on a conscious, enjoyable rendition of george roy hill and richard morris’s 1967 “Thoroughly modern millie.” sunday night is your final chance to catch a performance. 
WEEKLY WATCH 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a Scene Writer picks a movie or show available on an instant                            streaming  service, and then discusses it in Monday’s paper. 
bbc’s series “peaky blinders” tells the classic story of the historical gangster family in the unique setting of post-wwi birmingham. over the weekend, watch the shelby clan clash with the coppers, communists and the ira in the  series’ first two seasons on netflix and then come back for kelly mcgarry’s write-up on the show in monday’s paper. 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: refuse to give in to uncertainty and confusion. work through every challenge or obstacle using reason, and you will find a way to make the most of every situation you face. let charm take over, and it will not only encourage greater popularity, it will help you drum up the help you require to get things done your way. your numbers are 3, 14, 17, 23, 25, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): assess your situation and what you need to do to bring about positive changes. someone from your past will give you false hope. don’t rely on others for help, but make sure to get jobs finished on time. be good to yourself. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): what you do to help others will pay off. a reunion will lead to an interesting and unusual offer. Take time out for personal care. presentation matters, so put in the effort needed to look the part. romance is in the stars. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be careful when sharing your ideas or possessions. you will attract people who have ulterior motives and could try to take credit for your work. if you don’t believe in your abilities, it will be difficult to convince others to support your plans. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you may not like change, but this is an ideal time to embrace something new and challenging. let your intuition guide you in a direction that promises greater creativity and opportunity. romance will result in new beginnings and greater security. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take the plunge and travel to a destination that offers something special. new connections will lead to a greater understanding of how you can establish yourself in a position that suits your skills, talents and qualifications. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): spend more time on yourself, your family or something you believe in. don’t take a financial risk or overspend on something questionable. an unusual situation will develop with someone you have to deal with every day.     

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): concentrate on what you know and what you need to learn to improve your chances of advancement. don’t be discouraged by someone who is offering negative feedback about your plans. be true to yourself. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): speak up, share your ideas and bring about changes that will help you improve your community, neighborhood or lifestyle. a short trip will lead to a new endeavor. a romantic adventure will initiate creative ideas. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): run your ideas by someone you trust. an unforeseen problem will develop if you move too quickly or don’t take the time to test your plans before you begin. don’t go overboard. start small and build slowly. don’t make decisions based on emotions. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you’ll face turmoil if you let things bother you. you may not be able to control what others do or say, but you can avoid attracting gossip and interference. make your time and money count by spending it wisely. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): avoid aggressive situations that have the potential to lead to an argument. work by yourself. don’t present what you have to offer until you are fully satisfied that you have done your best. strive for perfection, quality and balance. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): keep your financial information private. an important partnership must be handled tactfully if you want to keep  yourself from being taken advantage of. avoid unpredictable people and situations. 

Birthday Baby: you are commanding, thoughtful and proactive. you are determined and grateful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

parents must know risk in sports 

Rachel O’Grady 
sports writer 
my parents always say that if they could have done one thing differently in rais­ing me and my sisters, they would not have let us play club or aau sports in grade school and beyond. 
i don’t disagree — those were some traumatic times in my life, primarily because i’m not particularly athleti­cally gifted. but more spe­cifically, the over-intense competition of club sports was pushed on me at far too early an age. 
it exhausted, injured and frustrated me beyond belief and overall likely had a neg­ative impact on my general organized sports experience. i burnt out at far too early an age and lost my love for sports prematurely. in that, i’m the exception to the rule. 
studies have overwhelm­ingly shown kids love play­ing organized, competitive sports, and they really aren’t getting that as much in school anymore. For those who aspire to play college or even pro sports, i acknowl­edge that aau or club teams are a great option. For those who do not, however, it sets a dangerous precedent of how much time should be spent playing athletics, and fur­ther, it dramatically increas­es risk for injury, which can be remarkably dangerous in a child’s formative years. 
i’m not going to tell par­ents how to parent. There happens, however, to be a strong correlation between playing more and more in­juries. i talked about this in my last column: There is absolutely no doubt that the more games (or practices) we play, the more likely we are to get injured. while this is obviously true on a profes­sional level, it’s even riskier during the adolescent years. 
in the past several years, serious injuries like acl tears have risen significant­ly, and it’s becoming clear that adolescents, particu­larly high school-aged kids, are increasingly prone to these tears. while the rates of recovery are also vastly improving, suffering such a devastating injury can seri­ously affect a person for the remainder of his or her life. 
obviously, this is not re­stricted to acl tears. with the rate of concussions also on the rise, there are incred­ibly serious long-term con­sequences that can result from repeated brain injuries. given that these injuries can occur at a young age, usually while the brain is still devel­oping, risking these poten­tially fatal brain damages is not worth the extra time on the court or field. 
There is no denying that club sports allow for another level of competition, and by no means am i suggesting we restrict them. parents, however, must be wary of the potential consequences of investing too much time, energy and money in such an endeavor. 
in the formative years of grade school and high school, kids should have the opportunity to explore a variety of different activi­ties without being forced to specialize in one due to the highly competitive nature of club sports. The impetus is on the parents to know what’s best for their kids, obviously, but also to make sure these club sports are not taking away from any later part of their lives, whether that be their actual health or their education. 
club sports have turned into a mandatory thing if kids want to continue play­ing sports at even the high school level, and it’s time to change that, for the health and safety of these kids and their futures. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame to face Panthers, Wolverines 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame has a big weekend ahead, welcoming two top teams in pittsburgh 
and  no. 8  michigan. The  
irish  host  the  panthers  
on  Friday  afternoon  and  

then travel to ann arbor, michigan, on sunday to face the wolverines. 
The irish (3-2) have had nearly two weeks off since they last com­peted Jan. 31, when they hosted a double-header with illinois and bowling green. against illinois, se­nior Quinn gleason, junior monica robinson, sopho­more allison miller, junior mary closs and sophomore brooke broda all claimed singles victories to power the irish to a 5-2 win. The irish enjoyed a clean sweep against bowling green, win­ning all six singles match­es and the three doubles matches. 
irish head coach Jay louderback said he believes those wins are crucial for his team to build on moving forward. 
“getting the wins always helps with confidence,” louderback said. “we were especially excited with the win over illinois, as they had just beaten virginia Tech.” 
louderback said his team has been focusing on im­proving its doubles per­formance leading up to Friday’s match. in three of their last four matches, the irish have lost the doubles point. 
“we have been working really hard on our doubles play, and i think the ex­tra practice will show up in our future matches,” louderback said. 
louderback said he ex­pects the tough matchup against pittsburgh due to the panthers’ powerful style of tennis. 
“pitt is very good indoors because of all of the big hit­ters they have,” louderback said. “we will have to be very patient against them and look for our chances to be aggressive.” 
pittsburgh (3-0) has re­corded wins over west virginia, youngstown state and penn state since the new year, but Friday will mark its first road match of the season. 
as for the match against eighth-ranked michigan, louderback said his team has to be ready for a quick turnaround in a hostile environment. 
“[The wolverines] always are great competitors and are very tough to beat at their place,” louderback said. “They seem to get great crowds when we are in town.” 
michigan comes into sunday’s matchup with a 4-2 record. The wolverines began the season by host­ing the iTa kick-off Tournament, where they recorded wins over san Francisco and kentucky before losing to ohio state in the final. last week­end, the wolverines par­ticipated in the iTa indoor championship in madison, wisconsin. They recorded wins over miami (Fla.) and lsu and a loss to second-ranked georgia. 
notre dame’s match against pittsburgh is slated to start at 3:30 p.m. Friday at eck Tennis pavilion, while the irish and wolverines will get underway sunday at 1 p.m. at michigan’s varsity Tennis center. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL | adrian 59, smc 43 
Belles drop annual Pink Game to Adrian 
By RJ STEMPAK 
sports writer 
saint mary’s played for a charitable cause in its annual pink game against adrian, but the belles met the same fate they have suffered many times this season, falling 59-43 on wednesday at angela athletic Facility. 
The game began slowly, with both the belles (1-22, 1-13 miaa) and bulldogs (10-11, 7-6) find­ing baskets hard to come by. The opening basket by saint mary’s senior forward eleni shea went unanswered for more than four minutes, and the belles led just 4-3 over halfway through the first quarter. 
The belles held that lead until 
3:43 left in the opening quarter, but the bulldogs seized con­trol with a 11-4 run to finish the quarter and never trailed again. adrian increased its lead steadily throughout the remainder of the half, leading by 12 until a last-second heave by belles senior guard maddie kohler resulted in a trip to the free-throw line just before the break. she converted all three attempts, trimming her team’s deficit to single digits, 32-23. 
The second half began with the same defensive battle of the first half, as the two teams com­bined for just 11 points in the third quarter. 
“we didn’t work it very well against the 2-3 zone,” belles head coach Jennifer henley said of her team’s play in the third quarter. “we settled for outside shots in the beginning when we should’ve been trying to attack through the paint because there are some gaps in the zone. our game plan was to attack the gaps and if nothing else, draw the foul and get to the free-throw line, and that didn’t happen tonight.” 
saint mary’s shot just 27 per­cent from the floor, their sec­ond lowest mark on the season. only senior forward and cap­tain krista knapke made it into double figures for the belles (13 points), while the bulldogs had four players hit that mark. knapke also completed a dou­ble-double by pulling down 10 rebounds, while junior for­ward kelsey ronan grabbed a career-high 12 boards, but adrian out-rebounded saint mary’s 51-42 for the game. The bulldogs also committed three fewer turnovers. 
despite the loss, the belles left the gym with their heads held high, as the game raised money and awareness for the angel wings organization, henley said. all proceeds from baked goods and ticket sales went di­rectly to the charity. 
“we dedicate the pink game to honor former alma college coach keisha brown who passed away in 2014,” henley said. “The angel wings organization goes to support kids who lost a parent to cancer in the form of scholar­ships around mount pleasant, michigan.” 
The belles are back in ac­tion against kalamazoo for senior day on saturday at 3 
p.m. at angela athletic Facility. Following saturday’s game, saint mary’s will finish its sea­son on the road against albion on Feb. 20. 
Contact RJ Stempak at  rstempak@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 




Bouts 
conTinued From page 16 
but the individual set of work­outs will not be longer than 20 minutes because they are so high intensity … and we’ll keep our rest intervals very short. 
“ … The main part of tech­nique that we focus on is pre­cision. if you do everything perfectly, then you’re not go­ing to get hit, and you’re going to score more points, so we re­ally focus on breaking down all of our movements so that there’s no wasted energy and all of your punches and move­ments are as small and direct and compact as possible, but you’re also getting that full ex­tension on your punches.” 
when they are in the gym, the boxers are put through the most difficult workouts their coaches can dream up, with the goal of developing men­tal toughness. senior captain sean himel said one of the toughest workouts the team does is called the ton-up. 
“coach [neil macdonald] is absurd,” himel said. “he has the craziest workouts, and one of them is called a ton-up. it’s whenever you do 10 dif­ferent exercises, and you only do them 10 times. but then you run 10 sprints in between them, and then you knock off one every time and you keep going. it’s absurd, and it just teaches you the intense amount of mental toughness that you need, and i think that’s one of the biggest things that boxing teaches you.” 
perhaps the most difficult workout, however, is the an­nual “1,000 pushup day” that the team is put through, junior captain alex alcantara said. 
“we have a day every year where we don’t really tell peo­ple when we’re going to have this event, and basically it’s as bad as it sounds. you do 1,000 pushups in one day. so that’s one of the workouts that peo­ple really kinda feel for a cou­ple days after.” 
in the end, the level of the training the boxers are put through enables them to reach their peak physical and men­tal shape, grasso said. 
“[in practice], we focus on breaking through that initial mental breakdown of saying ‘i wanna quit, i don’t have any­more,’” grasso said. 
Training goes beyond the fighters’ designated practice, however. The team has morn­ing workouts every monday and wednesday leading up to the bouts, and fighters will of­ten come in to work the bags and develop punching endur­ance, grasso said. ultimately, many fighters work out three to four hours each day, six days per week, from october up un­til the bouts. 
“outside of practice time, a lot of people have to work on their boxing endurance be­cause being in great physical shape is one thing, but you also need to be able to punch for two minutes straight,” grasso said. “your shoulders need to be able to have that endurance to punch for two minutes, so a lot of guys will work the bag for example for like a two-minute round, and they’ll do that for up to 10 rounds.” 
while getting into the prop­er physical and mental shape is a responsibility the compet­itors take on outside the ring, the development of technique comes from the program’s coaching staff. 
“i would define my role as coach is to instruct, evaluate and provide a constructive and safe environment for our boxers to help them reach their full potential in and outside the ring,” head coach nathan walker, who has been with the program since 2010, said. “Through group and individu­al instruction, we are focused on the principles of amateur boxing to develop skills need­ed to compete in the bouts.” 
skill development begins with grasping the defensive techniques, walker said. 
“coach chad harms states it the best: ‘The object is to not get hit,’” walker said. “once they have a good grasp on the defensive principles, we will evaluate each boxer, usually on an individual ba­sis, to promote and develop their strengths. For example, if there is a boxer that has a great fundamental jab, we will coach them on how to use the jab more effectively though movement and timing.” 
one of the greatest challeng­es each year for the coaches is helping the novices who join the program get up to speed, 

paid adverTisemenT 


walker said. it is also one of the most rewarding parts of his job, because he gets to watch each young man grow over the course of the few months he works with them, walker said. 
“The uniqueness and beau­ty of the boxing programs at notre dame is that the ma­jority of students have no pri­or experience with boxing,” walker said. “whether it is our storied workouts or a ‘bucket list’ item, each year we have around 100 individuals new to boxing. The most gratifying [thing] as a coach is to see the development of the boxers in technique and to see their fit­ness level change to have the stamina to last three rounds. 
“i am always so proud of those individuals that get into the ring, because there are no timeouts and there is no back-door. preparing yourself and having the fortitude to step in the ring is an experience that all boxers can feel a great sense of accomplishment.” 
perhaps the most difficult adjustment for these novices is the level of commitment required. both physically and mentally, the training has pushed many of them in ways they’ve never been pushed before, freshman cam nolan said. 
“The training is definitely hard, and it’s more painful than i expected,” nolan said. “ … [macdonald] always tells us that, ‘when you think you can’t give anymore, you’ve only given 60 percent,’ and it’s all a mental thing. it’s re­ally what i’ve realized: pain is what you want it to be. it’s just another thing, [and] it doesn’t necessarily have to stop you. it was amazing how all of us were able to keep on going even though it hurt, and then eventually it just stopped hurting. 
“ … it’s [also] amazing how much of a technique sport it is, that you just have to put in hours and hours and hours to get good at it, so that’s really what surprised me.” 
The program’s captains place a special emphasis on taking time to work with nov­ices and help them improve throughout the training pro­cess. This aspect of the pro­gram is unique to notre dame, grasso said. 
“when i go up to them and correct them on something they’re doing wrong with their boxing or encourage them in a workout, i would always ask them their name and intro­duce myself, so they would know my name and i would know their name, really open that line of communication,” grasso said. “i think that not only fostered that good rela­tionship and team building that we’re talking about, but it really helped people excel as boxers because people are always willing to help other people.” 
now, as the months of train­ing comes to an end, himel said the boxers are ready to take the ring and display the end product of all of their hard work when the preliminary round gets underway at 3 p.m. sunday in the Jacc. however, it is also important the fighters do not forget the journey they have undertaken to get to this point, he added. 
“i’m beyond excited,” himel said. “i’m about to jump through the roof. but the sad part about the whole experi­ence is that if you don’t enjoy the journey, you know, half of us won’t make it past the pre­liminary rounds. That’s just the nature of the beast, so the great thing about the team aspect of our program is that we’re able to just grow with one another. 
“it’s kind of like a cult. we’ll do anything for each other, and we really do love each other.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
will take the court only three days after playing georgia Tech. mcgraw said the ex­tra off-days for the irish are necessary to recover from a series of recent injuries and illnesses. 
“it’s been less of a week to prepare and more of a week to rest,” mcgraw said. “it’s a tough time of the year, and we’ve got a lot of minor in­juries, some illness — every­body’s battling something right now. 
“[graduate student guard] madison cable’s been in a boot since [louisville]. she hurt her ankle, played through it and now she’ll be in a boot for a while so her status will be day-to-day. and then a number of the girls have come down with sore throats, colds, the flu, so we only had nine for prac­tice ... but we were able to take monday and Tuesday off so it was nice to get a bit of a break.” 
mcgraw said the break late in the regular season and be­tween two ranked opponents came at an ideal time for her team. 
“as soon as you get into ear­ly February, it’s a time when everybody is tired from the season and you can’t quite see the tournament coming, yet you know you have more games to play,” mcgraw said. “once the regular season’s over, you can get excited about the ncaa tournament again, but right now we’re just trying to finish strong.” 
The irish have battled through tight contests in three of their last four games, including fourth-quarter comebacks on the road against both duke and louisville. mcgraw said these close games have helped her team gain confidence in late-game situations. 
“it’s been good for us,” mcgraw said. “we’ve been challenged. we’ve had to come from behind late in the game, we’ve been able to work on a lot of specific situations, a lot of late game stuff, and i think our poise at the end of the game and our intelligence have been great. with [junior guard] lindsay allen out there, we know we’re going to make some great decisions, so we’ve been really pleased with the way we’ve handled being behind in these games. and in the acc at this time of year everybody’s good, you’re playing on the road, every game is going to be a challenge and you have to be ready for it. it’s great that we’ve been behind in the sec­ond half and yet we’ve found a way to come back. 
“we don’t panic. we just get it done.” 
The irish defense has stepped up in 2016, giving up no more than 66 points in any game since the new year. 
“we’re playing great de­fense,” mcgraw said. “we’ve been working very hard on our defense trying to im­prove, and i think we’re doing a great job on that end of the floor. and offen­sively, i think we’re doing good things, we have a cou­ple of people shooting the ball really well right now. [sophomore center] brianna Turner’s playing really well, 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
team must avoid, Jackson said. 
“if we [look past maine], we’re taking the risk of losing one of our goals, which is trying to be at the top of our confer­ence,” Jackson said. “we talk­ed about it early in the week. i asked them the question in the locker room: ‘looking for­ward, who’s the most danger­ous team we’re going to face?’ and they said maine. so they answered the question in the right way, and that’s what i was hoping they’d say. 
“i think they understand the importance of Friday night’s game. it’s just as important as last saturday’s or next Friday’s. we just have to stay focused on being in the moment.” 
sophomore defenseman Jordan gross, who was named hockey east defensive player of the week on monday for his four-point performance against vermont over the weekend, agreed with his head coach. 
“we all know how important every single night is,” gross said. “The points right now, because we want to get into the top four, we need to keep get­ting two points every night. we can’t do that if we’re looking lindsay allen’s been play­ing great, [freshman guard] arike ogunbowale, those three have really stepped up and taken over a lot of the scoring, along with madison cable who’s probably been our steadiest performer all year long.” 
The irish and the hurricanes meet at purcell pavilion on sunday. Tipoff is at 1 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


ahead to next weekend. we just higher-ranked irish on the few weeks, so we’re expecting a the black bears at 6:40 pm have to keep focused on maine road. good challenge this weekend,” on Friday night at compton this Friday.” “i haven’t really seen much he said. Family ice arena. 
gross said the team knows of them yet, but i know that The irish kick off their sec­maine will not be intimi-they have played a couple of ond-to-last home series of Contact Hunter McDaniel at dated despite facing the teams very tough in the past the regular season against hmcdani1@nd.edu 


M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
louisville has ousted boston college by 32 points and lost in a close contest against duke at cameron indoor stadium, falling 72-65. 
“i think you’re looking at a team that’s hard to score on, and we’re a gifted offensive team,” brey said. “so, how do we score against them? They’re really gifted. They press you to go back to that matchup zone. They have great size, so i think that’s going to be a great challenge for us.” 
The cardinals rank sev­enth in the nation in oppo­nent field-goal percentage and sixth in points allowed. sophomore center chinanu onuaku and junior forward mangok mathiang average a combined 14.2 rebounds and 
3.1 blocks per game. on the offensive end, the cardinals are led by fifth-year senior transfer guard damion lee, who averages 16.7 points per game. 
The irish have the 17th­most efficient offense in the country, and brey said he be­lieves their recent success is just the beginning of a new­found identity. 
“what we have done bet­ter, especially in the last two games, is when our offense isn’t going well, we’ve been more mature of going back and defending and not be­ing distracted on defense because we missed a shot or didn’t have a successful offensive possession,” brey said. “That was an area we needed to grow in. we’re not as good as we need to be, but we’ve made strides there, and that’s the biggest theme for saturday afternoon.” 
notre dame started its acc schedule with a 1-2 re­cord in January and was still developing on both ends of the floor after the depar­ture of Jerian grant and pat connaughton last season. since then, the irish have gone 7-2, including notable wins over duke and north carolina. 
“i’m really proud of them, and this group specifically,” brey said. “i think they’ve really grown a lot, probably since the pittsburgh loss. i think we’ve really focused, and we’ve practiced well. our leadership stepped up. i al­ways felt that because we’ve had a nucleus of guys that were part of an acc cham­pionship that you have a lot to work with. They remember the formula. They delivered on big nights, and you were kind of hoping for that to maybe happen a little more consistently. 
“as far as a double-bye opening up, and certainly with the louisville situa­tion, it makes that gettable. certainly we’ve remembered that the double-bye helped us get to the championship, and we’ve been in double-bye territory before back in the old big east, which helped us advance to the semifinals many times. That’s some­thing to really shoot for, and we’re in position to get one of those.” 
with only six conference games left on the schedule, including louisville, notre dame has little room for er­ror if it wants to lock up one of the top four seeds in the acc tournament. last season, the double-bye helped propel the irish to their first conference title in school history. 

saturday’s pivotal game will be sold out, and brey said the crowd will benefit the team just as it did last week against the Tar heels. connaughton and grant will also be in attendance to cheer on the irish during all-star weekend in the nba. 
“we found more of an iden­tity in the last two games, and i think we need to be more greedy about that mov­ing forward to see if we can get another big win in our building,” brey said. “it’s go­ing to be a great atmosphere again.” 
The irish and cardinals are scheduled to tip at 4 p.m. saturday at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish look to rise in ACC standings against Louisville 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
it’s the middle of February, which means it’s crunch time for teams trying to polish their résumés for the ncaa tournament. 
notre dame (17-7, 8-4 acc), who is riding high following two wins in the past week against no. 9 north carolina and clemson, will have an opportunity to strength­en its case for a bid to the tournament against no. 13 louisville on saturday night at purcell pavilion. 
The cardinals (19-5, 8-3 acc), on the other hand, are no longer playing for a spot in the postseason after banning themselves from any tourna­ments after the regular sea­son, but that has not stopped louisville from playing in­spired basketball of late. since the self-imposed ban was announced Feb. 5, 
see m bball PAGE 15 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
notre dame set to host miami 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
since joining the acc for the 2013-2014 season, notre dame has boasted a 48-1 record in conference play. on sunday, the no. 3 irish (23-1, 11-0 acc) will face the only team to blem­ish that record when they welcome no. 19 miami to purcell pavilion. 
That defeat came in January 2015 in coral gables, Florida, with the hurricanes winning by a score of 79-63. The irish got their revenge in the quarterfinals of the acc tournament that season though. 
“we had a chance to play them again in the acc tournament, and i think we were happy that we had a chance to play and beat that same team again,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “we’re both very different teams now though, so we’re not really thinking much about last year’s game.” 
mcgraw said the hurricane backcourt could pose a challenge to the irish. 
“They have a great back-court,” mcgraw said. “They have two all-conference level guards in [juniors adrienne] motley and [Jessica] Thomas. They’re both great 3-point shoot­ers, they’re both great de­fenders, they can both take the ball and drive, and i think they’re really ath­letic, very aggressive. it’s going to be a very physical game.” 
The irish will enter sunday’s contest with a full week of rest since their last outing, a 66-61 victory over no. 12 louisville, who led by as many as nine points in the third quarter. The hurricanes, meanwhile, 
see w bball PAGE 14 
HOCKEY 

maine offers new challenge for nd 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
with just six regular season games left before the start of the hockey east tournament, notre dame has suddenly found itself in a tie with boston college for first place in the conference. 
The no. 8 irish (16-5-7, 12-2-2 hockey east) welcome confer­ence foe maine to campus for a pair of games this weekend, be­fore a tough sprint to the finish in the following two weeks that will include two games against no. 5 providence and no. 7 boston university each. 
The black bears (7-17-6, 4-10­
2) have struggled in one of the toughest conferences in the nation this season, currently sitting just two points clear of massachusetts for last place. however, maine is far more competitive squad than its re­cord indicates, irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“[maine is] doing a lot better here in the second half,” Jackson said. “i think a big reason for it is [redshirt junior] matt morris is giving them pretty consistent goaltending here in the second half. he played extremely well against providence last week­end. They took providence to overtime Friday night. They tied Quinnipiac a few weeks ago. i thought they gave bu all they could handle, and they probably should have beaten bu in the one game that i saw.” 
Jackson said the black bears’ effort will present the biggest challenge for the irish this weekend. 
“They’ll be one of the hardest working teams we face this year, and we’ll have to match their work ethic,” Jackson said. “and they transition well. [vermont head coach red gendron’s] a good coach, and they’ve got some dangerous players. we just have to be more concerned about us and making sure that our work ethic is at a high level and our execution is good.” 
The temptation for the irish to look past this weekend to a road trip to providence (19-5­4, 10-3-3) and a season-end­ing home series with boston university (16-8-4, 9-4-3) will be strong but is something his 
see hockey PAGE 14 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Boxing tournament kicks off Sunday at Joyce Center 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
when the boxers in bengal bouts take the ring sunday, it will be the cul­mination of more than four months of training and sac­rifice for every fighter in the program. 
The competitors started their training in the first week of october and took over the pit after baraka bouts finished in early november. each day of practice since has focused on developing both the physical endurance neces­sary to compete and the technique required to suc­ceed, senior captain mike grasso said. 
“a lot of our practicing focuses on high-endur­ance, very intense, but not long workouts,” grasso said. “our workouts can be as short as 12 minutes and never more than 20 minutes. we might do two rounds of those workouts, 
see bouTs PAGE 13 







