the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre dame and and report saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 50, issue 85 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Candidates face off in student body debate 
Student body presidential and vice presidential hopefuls vie for last minute support among peers 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
student body presidential candidates, juniors dominic albergi, louis bertolotti and corey robinson, and their re­spective running mates, juniors Jennifer cha, elizabeth Fenton and sophomore rebecca blais, answered questions from the notre dame Judicial council and student attendees during a debate monday night in the basement of laFortune student center. Judicial council’s vice president of elections, caitlin geary, posed questions to the three campaigns, and audience members also asked questions. 
geary first asked each ticket what unique experiences they could leverage to better serve the student union. 
robinson said his relation­ships with university ad­ministrators will allow the robinson-blais administration to work effectively, and said he already has plans to travel to brazil later in the semester with university president Fr. John Jenkins and provost tom burish to promote the university. 
“we have a lot of existing re­lationships with provosts, with Fr. John. so we really will be able to go straight to him and say, ‘Fr. John, what do you think about this? we have a lot of re­ally great student ideas in this aspect, and we think that would be really successful.’” 
blais, who before running for vice president served as director of internal affairs for the ricketts-ruelas adminis­tration, said she has extensive knowledge of the student union constitution. 
“it’s a beautiful 50-page-long document, and you guys should all check it out,” she said. “i really got to know the constitution, and 
see debate PAGE 5 


KAT ROBINSON | The Observer 

Students gather in the basement of LaFortune on Monday night to hear candidates running for student body president and vice president discuss their platforms. Voting takes place Wednesday. 


master’s program opens to second-semester juniors 
early admission process in-

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor clude waiving the gre re­quirement and application starting this semester, sec-fee for the program. ond semester juniors can ap-the master of science in 


Professor sheds light on increase in cyber crimes 
been attacked.” passwords and information 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer according to d’arcy, a data specific to healthcare. 
breach is an incident in which healthcare is an industry 
John d’arcy, an associate pro-“sensitive, protected or confi-that’s especially vulnerable to fessor of accounting and man-dential data” is accessed by a cybercriminals, d’arcy said. agement information systems party without authorization. “getting this information at the university of delaware, this data includes personal can be used to make fake in-delivered his presentation “data health information, personal surance accounts — there’s a breach: Failures and Follow-
lot of money to be made,” he 

ply to saint mary’s master data science program was 
ups” monday afternoon in the 

of science in data science added in this year, along 
mendoza college of business. 

program. 
with two other graduate 
the lecture was the first event of 

assistant director of programs at saint mary’s 
mendoza’s annual ethics week 

marketing for the graduate — the doctorate of nursing 
and focused on data breaches. 

programs megan eifler said, practice and master of 
“we hear about these [data 

if admitted to the master’s science in speech pathology. 
breaches] all the time, and 

said. “everything is being digi­
tized in the health industry, 
and it’s a gold mine. in general, 
they’ve been a little lax in terms 
of security compared to other 
industries.” 
d’arcy explained the idea 
of a “compliance mindset,” which infers that the mini­mum required by law is enough protection. 
“there’s plenty of laws in the 
see ethics PAGE 5 

program, a student may take up to two graduate-level courses during her senior year at saint mary’s, earning six credits toward her mas­ter’s degree. 
additional benefits of the 
eifler said applying ear­ly to the program will help students get a head start on their graduate degree. the program is a hybrid — mostly 
see master’s PAGE 5 
there’s even a term that’s come up recently, ‘data breach fa­tigue’ – it comes up so often, it’s not even a big deal anymore,” d’arcy said. “every week, we hear about another organiza­tion that’s high profile that’s identifiable information, trade secrets, intellectual property and personal financial data, d’arcy said. there is also a movement to expanding the definition to include emails, 


news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 6 scene PAGE 9 men’s basketball PAGE 16 women’s lacrosse PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 




QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your spirit dog? 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 
024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 



Ben Vasquez 
sophomore Zahm house 
“pug.” 

Sarah Drumm 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“irish terrier.” 

Maddie Hetlage 
sophomore pasquerilla east lab 
“chocolate lab.” 



Marissa Campilii 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“black lab.” 


Nick Walter 
senior 
siegfried hall 

“golden retreiver.” 

Tyler Duffy 
sophomore 
Zahm house 

“golden retriever.” 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmes01@saintmarys.ed 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@smcndobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kayla mullen alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com selena ponio marek mazurek Jenna wilson maureen schweniger 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 
“Putt Putt Pardi Bites and Brews with Guided Mindfulness Women’s Tennis vs. Men’s Basketball vs. 
emmet Farnan austin taliferro 
Gras” Bell’s Brewery Meditation Pittsburgh Louisville 
Legends Morris Inn Snite Museum of Art Eck Tennis Pavillion Purcell Pavilion 8 p.m.- 10 p.m. 9 p.m.- 10:30 p.m. 4 p.m.- 4:45 p.m. 3:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. 4 p.m.- 7 p.m. 
Corrections 
Celebrate with LGBTQ $15 for beer tasting Relax and recharge Irish take on the Notre Dame plays the 
the observer regards itself as and Ally students. and snacks. through meditation. Panthers. Cardinals. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Film and Panel Lecture: “Raising Letters for Soldiers Pink Zone Spin-A-Men’s Rowing Erg-A­
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Discussion America’s Pay” Abroad Thon Thon 
however, recognize that we will make 
Jordan Auditorium Andrews Auditorium LaFortuen Rockne Memorial Joyce Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.- 10 p.m. 7 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 11 a.m.- 2 p.m. 12 p.m.- 12 a.m. all day 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
“Margin Call” will be Focuses on low-and-Send a St. Patrick’s Cycling for breast Donate to pancreatic 
we can correct our error. 
shown. middle income finance. Day card to soldiers. cancer research. cancer research. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | the observer 

club collects feminine products for patients 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
notre dames is asking students to help pad boxes with feminine hygiene prod­ucts for the next two weeks in an initiative — the code red collection — to donate the products to patients at the sister maura brannick, c.s.c., health center who cannot afford these items. 
senior alison leddy, founder and president of notre dames, said this is the group’s second service proj­ect of the year. 
“something new this year is we’ve been trying to do a lot more service, so this code red collection is our service event for this se­mester,” leddy said. “last semester, we did an event called blankets for breast cancer, so we tied fleece blankets, and we donated them to women who were recently diagnosed at the moreau breast cure center.” 
while many people can­not fathom being unable to afford feminine hygiene products, it is a widespread societal issue that deserves attention, leddy said. 
“i had been to a presen­tation by a notre dame alumna, and she started an organization called she, which is sustainable health enterprises, which focuses on helping women and girls in rwanda and kenya be­ing able to manufacture and use their own feminine products,” she said. “sitting there, realizing that that’s such a form of privilege that i had never really known, or acknowledged in the past, i 
think that to me it was kind  Facebook event up that in- 
of jarring. … we kind of want  cludes a link to our student  
notre dame to pause and to  shop for people that would  
think about that.”  prefer to donate money, or  
senior  brianna  [for] people that aren’t here,”  
prusakowski,  vice  presi­ prusakowski  said.  “we’re  
dent  of  notre  dames, said  reaching out to nd  women  
the group has taken steps  connect so that they can  
to allow people off campus  reach out to their local chap­ 

“I think the vision with this, as well as with Dames in general, is that a lot of the things we talk about, this in particular, is not restricted to a women’s issue — it’s a health issue.” 
Brianna Prusakowski 
senior 
or those who might feel un-ters. … if those groups want comfortable donating femi-to mail us products, or if nine products to contribute they want to donate money, to the cause. we’re open to that.” 
“we currently have a prusakowski said notre 
paid advertisement 

dames hopes people who do not need to use feminine products understand the significance of the issue and choose to assist the group in its efforts in some way. 
“i think the vision with this, as well as with dames in general, is that a lot of the things we talk about, this in particular, is not restricted to a women’s issue — it’s a health issue,” she said. “we want to be open and inclu­sive to all people who care about [this], which we would hope would be everyone. … it’s important, and we need a lot of help on this because we can donate all we want, but we need on a larger scale.” 
leddy said she would like this event to open up greater discussion on the topic of menstruation. she also en­couraged students to attend the group’s weekly meetings on tuesday nights to learn more about why this prob­lem exists. 
“that fact that there is such a stigma on even saying the word ‘period,’ then we lose a chance or an opportu­nity to really talk about the issues that come with that and thinking about policy-related things,” leddy said. “people are welcome to come to our talk it out tuesday discussion [in the dooley room at laFortune] to learn a little bit more about this as sort of a broader, societal is­sue, and also, just talk about the stigma and about the realities of menstruation, which we don’t really talk enough about — but they exist.” 
notre dames will be tak­ing donations tuesdays from 7 to 9 p.m. outside the dooley room and thursdays from 2 to 4 p.m. in the eleva­tor lobby of laFortune. 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 

paid advertisement ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | the observer 



feasible,” he said. “every single summer, and that way during the Debate goal has a timeline.” school year we can have 24/7 ac-continued From page 1 robinson said he and blais cess to sexual assault prevention 
would like to reintroduce Fr. and resources.” i really know how it functions hesburgh’s “open door” policy in alberigi said increasing mental with student government.” their administration. health resources on campus was 
cha said she and alberigi have “a lot of time, students don’t his campaign’s primary goal. worked to better comprehend know what student government “we believe the way to expand current student needs, especially does, and we just want to be able the university counseling center on issues of diversity. to sit down and talk to you,” he is by increasing demand, making 
“For example, our university said. it as streamlined as possible,” he hairstylist program does not alberigi said his ticket’s experi-said. “we want to improve access have a stylist, currently, that can ence as “outsiders” has inspired to everyone for facilities for sup-cut ethnic hair,” she said.  “i think them to push for notre dame port. and we know this can get it’s a very small step as a univer-to be more welcoming to more done, along with our other initia­sity, to hire a hairdresser, even for students. tives, because it’s already in the specific hours to cut ethnic hair. “this is a question i’m really works — we’re already working and it sends a huge message to excited to answer, and here’s the on it.” students.” reason — because we’re outsid-Fenton said she and bertolotti 
bertolotti, the current direc-ers,” he said. “we haven’t been on would like to bring a standard-tor of the student union board the inside, studying the constitu-ized taxi system to campus. (sub), said student government tion since the beginning. we’ve “we know we can get this done. has always been his passion realized that student govern-we want to have notre dame-and referenced his experience ment has $75,000 of your money approved taxis, $3 flat rate, any-with the First undergraduate to spend, and no one knows where in the local area, to and experience in leadership where it’s going. how many of the from, regardless of how many (Fuel). students think that student gov-people are in a taxi.” 
“there were fifty members at ernment has done a lot to impact an audience member asked our meetings,” he said. “we don’t accessible 24/7. the beginning of the year. … by our daily lives? both robinson and bertolotti want to reform the senate around “animal therapy programs al­the end of the year, about five of “we offer the perspective of how they would reform the stu-our interests, but rather we think ready exist at a number of other us were showing up, and that re-students that has felt alone on dent senate. it should be formed around your institutions. … these are pro-ally upset me,” he said. “so the this campus, this campus that “i’ve had the pleasure of sit-views.” grams that are completely pos­next year, i took on Fuel, we promises to be a family.” ting on senate as the executive robinson said senate meetings sible,” he said. “so, how do we streamlined it, we made it 35 in her final question for the director of sub this year, and i’ve could still be held at a reasonable make that happen, what are the members. we gave them all de-candidates, geary asked, “if you seen that it’s kind of become a time for all parties, and he has particulars? well, we’ve looked partment directors to work on could only accomplish one of bully pulpit for the student body drawn ideas for senate reform into that, we think you start with different departments. we really your platform initiatives, which president and vice president. from experience with the student the basics. ‘puppy days’ right made it easy for them to get in-would you choose, and why?” we want to make sure that the athlete advisory council (saac). now is run by student govern­volved in student government.” bringing the sexual assault senators have their own power,” “saac, for instance, we come, ment — wonderful program. we 
geary next asked how each nurse examiner (sane) pro-bertolotti said. “we think that if we have an agenda. but what we want to expand that, to make ticket would bridge the gap be-gram to campus was his tick-we would create a senate presi-do is really involve people, ask it more of a medical program, tween the student government et’s most important initiative, dent pro [tempore], or something questions, brainstorm and come where we have therapy dogs on administration and the student robinson said. along that nature, they would be together and have these conclu-campus.” body. “we’ve talked directly with able to control the dialogue.” sions, right? and then we bring the notre dame student gov­
bertolotti said he and Fenton nancy brandt, the director of st. bertolotti said he and Fenton that unified voice to the athletic ernment elections will take plan to distribute a newsletter Joseph hospital sane program, will differ from the robinson-administration,” he said. “in the place wednesday, when stu­twice a month that would inform which allows you to have 24/7 ac-blais administration, in that they same way, we can put that on dents will receive an email students of initiatives, as well as cess to rape kits and other things will be “committed.” senate. … we want to have that from Judicial council with soliciting student input. on campus, and she said we defi-“now corey’s told the unified approach.” a link to an online ballot. 
“we have three goals for ev-nitely need to have and adopt at observer that he will be busy on in a response to an audience ery single department in stu-st. liam’s,” he said. “it’s very easy weekdays from 2:30 to 7 p.m. on question regarding alberigi-News writer Andrea Vale dent government, and we know to do. it’s $300 to train each nurse, weekdays in the fall. senate falls cha’s platform goal of bring-contributed to this report. 
— because of our experience in and there’s two to three national at 6 p.m., and so the constitution ing an animal room to campus, student government — that ev-conventions each month. so states that the student body pres-alberigi said the room would Contact Catherine Owers at  ery single one of these goals is we can send the nurses in the ident must be present for all of be full-time, but not necessarily cowers@nd.edu 

Master’s 
continued From page 1 
online, but students come to campus once a year for presen­tations, eifler said. 
“our program offers a real-world practicum to develop data analysis tools and apply them to an unmet need,” eifler said. 
saint mary’s created the program because of the need for “actionable intelligence for business leaders,” eifler said. according to eifler, many pro­grams have popped up in data science. 
“our students will learn how to generate data and report to make informed decisions but also not to look at [data] in a vacuum and to turn a critical eye,” she said. 
the program has a strong mathematical base and re­quires a quantitative major or minor — not specifically math 
— as well as a few prerequisite classes for early admission. 
“students will learn how to interpret data, develop algo­rithms and application to re­gression analysis,” eifler said. 
eifler said the master of science in data science pro­gram at saint mary’s differs from other programs because students will also learn com­munication skills and how to present data to clients. 
a research methods course will look at trends in data and why the trends may be occur­ring, eifler said. 
another hybrid graduate pro­gram is the doctorate of nursing 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

practice (dnp) program, in which students come to campus once per semester throughout the four-year program. 
eifler said like the master of science in data science pro­gram, the dnp program of­fers a unique curriculum with courses in communication and leadership. 
For more information on specific course requirements and application requirements, visit https://grad.saintmarys. edu/academic-programs/ms­data-science/application-re­quirements or contact melissa Fruscione, associate director of admission for graduate programs at mfruscione@saint­marys.edu 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Ethics 
continued From page 1 
book that require both notification and adequate level of security, but we’re still seeing more and more breaches,” he said. “the question is, is the law enough? Just to com­ply with legal requirements, is that enough? the obvious answer is no — companies have an ethical obligation to go beyond the re­quirements and to really protect its information.” 
contributing to this “compli­ance mindset” is the lack of in­centive for companies to “step up” their precautions against data breaches. 
“there’s concern for your per­sonal information, but in terms of hardcore impact, it’s not really affecting companies negatively, from a shareholder’s perspective,” d’arcy said. “they have litigation costs and all these other costs, but in terms of satisfying their share­holders, they’re not taking much of a hit. there’s not a hard case from a business standpoint to go above and beyond.” 
d’arcy presented case studies for four major data breaches: choicepoint, inc. and tJX companies in 2005, target in 2013 and ebay in 2014. 
email addresses, encrypted passwords, birth dates and mail­ing addresses were accessed from ebay in 2014, and the company was very slow to react, taking weeks to notify customers who may have been affected, d’arcy said. 
“their argument was since it wasn’t credit card data or drivers licenses, they didn’t need to notify customers right away,” d’arcy said. “also, because the passwords were in an encrypted format, their argu­ment was that it wasn’t sensitive.” 
d’arcy said information security and ethics are complicated and past incidents should be viewed as learning opportunities instead of complete failures. 
“it’s easy to look at these cases and be all high and mighty, but the reality is, ethics is difficult, and they’re dealing with pressures and other factors,” he said. “we can certainly learn lessons from these cases moving forward and begin to apply that ethical lens and act­ing on our ethical obligations.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Focus on control 
Susan Zhu 
graphic designer 
this wednesday, notre dame will have its election for next year’s student body presi­dent and vice president. preserving stu­dents’ mental health is an important issue on campus that i hope takes a front seat in this year’s election. however, i struggle with the general platform goal of “ending the stigma.” it’s difficult for me to understand the possibility of implementing something like ending social stigma into a plan that can be accomplished in an academic year. 
why is this? stigma against mental illness is a pervasive issue that goes beyond the borders of notre dame. i don’t think the goal should be to end the stigma. this is only fea­sible if we can end the stigma universally. i think the goal ought to be to preserve a safe space on campus and heighten awareness of mental illness treatment and prevalence. 
bear with me here. i know when the phrase “safe space” gets thrown around, eyes start rolling and sarcasm begins. however, i think that for mental health, a safe space is critical. instead of focusing on the travesty of stigma, we should focus on sustaining an environment of encourage­ment and growth. we put a lot of pressure on ourselves — to be successful academically, to be physically fit and to be liked by our peers. of course, it’s important to acknowl­edge that mental illness is a problem at notre dame. i think everyone carries some sort of baggage. when i had depression, it felt like i was lugging it around with me, and i always thought it was conspicuous. i thought everyone could see the weight, and i felt guilty whenever i shared some of the burden with another person. i think this guilt is what holds people back from telling their friends and family that they’re struggling. an environment that works to alleviate this guilt is one we should cultivate at notre dame, and this can only be done through awareness that mental illness exists here. 
“ending the stigma on campus” is a sweeping statement that sounds impressive but does little. it just isn’t feasible to try and change everyone’s mindset on an issue that is influenced by family, culture and experi­ence, especially when the problem is beyond notre dame itself. what we can control is how we treat each other, and how we sup­port our friends. what we can control is to move away from competition and towards collaboration and community. what we can control is to allow ourselves to take some pressure off and let go of the weight we carry. we may not be able to control the stig­ma. i hate to admit that. however, it’s also important to be realistic. awareness of the prevalence of mental illness on campus is more important because we can control how kind we are to one another. we can control how we act with our friends. this year, let’s focus on what we can control. 
Contact Susan Zhu at szhu4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katherine Smart 
real talk 
when you think back to middle school, gym class is probably one of your best, or worst, memories. despite your personal experiences, physical educa­tion class is one of the most important classes mid­dle schools and high schools offer. unfortunately, with budget cuts and increasing academic pres­sures, schools are beginning to explore the option of cutting physical education programs, or at least not making them mandatory. although schools are trying to prioritize the needs of their students, physical education cannot be undervalued in this assessment. gym class is imperative for the healthy growth and development of young students. 
according to the center of disease control and prevention (cdc), adolescents should have at least one hour of physical activity per day. while many schools offer after-school sports, these programs are not mandatory. therefore these programs cannot be considered a sustainable substitute for gym class since it only affects a select portion of the student body. one of the biggest reasons schools are cut­ting back gym programs is the falling testing scores among american students. this issue has created pressure on school administrators to better prepare their students, which means creating more time for students to study. however, by taking away physi­cal education classes, schools are actually harm­ing student’s mental growth. according to harvard medical school, regular exercise improves memory and thinking skills. their research also concluded that it reduced stress and improves sleeping pat­terns, especially in young adults. by keeping gym as part of their curriculum, schools will be able to bet­ter help their students develop healthy lifestyle pat­terns that will lead to better academic marks. 
another major reason physical education is im­portant is that it teaches children the proper tech­niques and information about exercise. anyone with access to the internet or television knows the insane amount of advertisements for weight loss programs and exercise equipment. unfortunately, the goal of these advertisements is to sell a product, not teach young observers how to properly use the equipment. with so much misinformation, physical education class can be an outlet for young adults to decipher between real and fake information. by teaching stu­dents the proper techniques for even simple exer­cises, such as squats and pushups, schools would be able to help their students develop habits that would decrease their risk of injury in the future. these programs can also show young people they do not need to spend hours at the gym to get a great work­out. by using the proper techniques, they can learn to manage their time working out more efficiently. therefore, keeping physical education in the cur­riculum would help educate young people on how to develop healthy and proper exercise techniques. 
while this issue affects all students, the group affected most by the removal of gym classes is low-income students. according to the cdc, obesity rates among youth from households in which the parents did not attend college are double those of households in which the parents did. unfortunately, these obesity trends begin as early as preschool, with a 24 percent obesity rate of 2-4-year olds from low-income homes. the direct correlation between income level and obesity has been proven time and time again, and gym class is one of the most cru­cial tools public school systems have to combat this issue. 
although schools can teach healthy eating habits and promote time for exercise, many low-income students do not have the opportunity to exercise these habits. From after-school jobs to rough neigh­borhood environments, many of these students are extremely limited in the amount of time they can spend outdoors. by keeping physical education pro­grams in schools, administrators can ensure stu­dents will have the opportunity to get the exercise they desperately need. 
clearly, physical education classes are an im­portant part of students’ development. not only do these classes help them physically, but they also have clear mental and intellectual benefits. in addi­tion, gym classes offer an excellent opportunity to really teach kids the correct way to exercise, which will help dispel the numerous myths surrounding different workout plans. however, gym classes are especially essential in low-income schools since they provide the students with both the time and opportunity to workout despite their external cir­cumstances. as college students, it is important we fully understand the ramifications that eliminating physical education would have on the next genera­tion of americans. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the Naval ROTC program and a current resident of Badin Hall. She is a political science and pre-health major. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The whispers of God 
to get everything assembled and placed. after is not a cure-all, but a way of living in spite of long-
Scott Boyle 
the sincere seeker 
my life has changed a lot in the course of the past year. i finished a master’s degree, leased my first apartment, moved for yet another time, started paying (bigger and more consistent) bills and began my first professional job here at notre dame. 
it seems — at least for the foreseeable future — that i don’t have another transition immediately looming on the horizon. 
but in the course of the past couple months, i’ve learned there are still plenty of things that can change in my life, even in the midst of stabil­ity. For me, it’s meant discovering and living into those adult commitments that now define much of my day-to-day existence. 
take my first apartment lease as an example. walking into a bare apartment on the first day of renting was a big shock back in august. turns out, it takes a lot of work and effort to fill a new space. of course, i immediately noticed the cool big-tick­et items that i would need to pick out and acquire 
— a couch, bed, chairs, television and table — to take a few examples. 
yet it was in the aisles of bed, bath and beyond that i received my real initiation into adulthood. my parents were quick to point out my bachelor pad might require a few more “domestics” than i had initially thought. within no time, i became the proud owner of new trashcans, bowls, cutlery, trash bags and a plunger. necessary items, yes, but definitely not as cool. 
over the course of the next few days, i was able many hours of hard work, finishing my set-up came with a definite feeling of satisfaction. not only did i love relaxing in my new space, but also i was pleased with everything i had purchased. i wanted my apartment to be comfortable, and i felt that was exactly how it had turned out. 
as the proceeding days turned into weeks, however, i noticed something starting to change within me. i no longer had the same feeling of sat­isfaction as i entered my apartment each day. the same items i had been so pleased to share with others were beginning to lose their luster. in fact, i started looking for items i thought might make the space look better. 
as you can imagine, this got pretty old. not only that, but it made me think — why was i so dissatisfied? 
i knew it was not because i didn’t have nice things, or that i hadn’t taken care to pick out things i really enjoyed. there was something deeper at work. 
it was then that i remembered some words of a colleague of mine, prof. John cavadini. lecturing about st. augustine this past fall, he said, “i think the meaning of life is learning to say ‘thank you’ better.” 
i have been meditating over these words since then. could that really be true? i have been trying to say “thank you” better for some time now. to do this, i write personal notes of gratitude in response to the ways people have helped me to see the world 
— and my life — as full of grace. but that hasn’t eliminated my struggles or my disappointments. 
but, in committing to this practice, i’ve learned that’s not precisely the point. saying “thank you” ing. as you can see, material goods sometimes preoccupy me. but there is merit — and meaning 
— that can come from saying it anyway. 
controlled, scientific studies add credence to this fact. one study, undertaken by a website called “soul pancake,” found that when study par­ticipants personally called to express gratitude to a significant person in their life, their happiness (as measured from a survey administered at the beginning of the study) increased between four and 19 percent. so saying “thank you,” while not a panacea, does matter. 
all this led me to the deeper truth of st. augustine’s words in his work “the confessions,” “our hearts are restless until they rest in you, o lord.” that is to say, our hearts will be restless until we recognize and live into the truth that we were made to live as images of our creator — the one who is the gift of love between persons. 
thus, our ultimate satisfaction will only come when we can consistently acknowledge and orient our desires not toward things, but toward relation­ships. living in gratitude for those relationships has allowed me to encounter the reality for which we were made — a love that reminds us that our lives have meaning despite our possessions or oth­er external things. there we hear the whispers of a god who wants to remind us of that too. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
debating the future of marriage 
tonight in debartolo hall, the tocqueville program will host a debate between stephen macedo and ryan t. anderson on the future of marriage, gay rights and religious freedom. macedo is the rockefeller professor of politics at princeton, as well as the former director for the university center of human values, and anderson, who earned his ph.d from notre dame in 2014, is a senior research fellow at the heritage Foundation and the most prominent spokesman in defense of conjugal marriage. 
anderson and macedo have both published important books in the wake of the supreme court’s decision in obergefell v. hodges. it is an honor and a privilege to welcome both to our campus. 
the court’s decision in June did not end the argument surrounding the future of marriage, religious freedom or gay rights. as witnessed by events this past fall, including the kim davis af­fair in kentucky, many questions remain — and the country remains divided — concerning the nature of marriage and the relationship between gay rights and religious freedom. that is why notre dame must participate in this discussion. 
we, the authors, disagree on just about every­thing in this debate. one thing we do agree upon, however, is the importance of participating in reasonable discussion and debate in pursuit of the truth, especially with respect to a topic as controversial as the subject of this debate. too often in conversations of this nature, reasons are trumped by emotions and insults take the place of arguments. there is a better way to engage controversial and important issues, and these two speakers will show us how to elevate the level of our public discourse. 
on campus, students have a tendency to dis­cuss contentious issues only with like-minded peers, retreating from opportunities to engage with those who disagree with them. as mem­bers of this university community, we all are or should be committed to the pursuit and sharing of truth for its own sake. one way in which we can come to a greater understanding of truth is by engaging in reasoned argument with those who disagree with us. doing so allows us to better understand each other and to come to a deeper appreciation of the nuances of the issue in question, in the process either strengthening our convictions or else realizing that our reason­ing may be flawed. 
in the spirit of intellectual engagement, we invite the student body to attend this debate and participate in the conversation. 
the tocqueville program, bridgend and the dean’s Fellows are sponsoring the debate, which will begin at 7 p.m. in debartolo 155. 
Tim Bradley 
off-campus president of students for child-oriented policy 
Seamus Ronan 
off-campus dean’s Fellows 

the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 
the illuminati must have had a hand in planning the super bowl 50 halftime performance, which featured coldplay as the headliner along with bruno mars and beyoncé, in a show that was so sur­real, i’m still requesting testimony that it occurred in real life. 
the early time of day had the double effect of demystifying the usually invis­ible crowd and far edges of the stadium, yet simultaneously contributing to its daydream-like visual. coldplay opened atop a colorful stage surrounded by dancers dressed as huge flowers, fur­ther accentuating the surreal ambiance surrounding the halftime performance. 
chris martin revealed in the nFl halftime show press conference that the style was inspired by glastonbury Festival, a place considered an oasis of community, individualism and free­dom from social norms. the vibe is 
By ERIN McAULIFFE and TOMMY ANDERSON 
scene editor and scene writer 
this super bowl sunday, we tuned in for the ads … well, at least the ones we hadn’t already seen on Facebook or teased on twitter in 2016: the age of commercial trailers. blame it on vine or millennials or the multiplying digital platforms on which brands can reach audiences, but commercial trailers no longer connotes u-hauls. 
with the overwhelming amount of hype, the pressure was on for brands to deliver engaging and witty con­tent. here’s who did and didn’t follow through. 
T-Mobile 
t-mobile hit the pop culture sweet spot. drake dressed in a groutfit and timbs while dancing in a well-lit box has proven great youtube bait, so the carrier took advantage of the combina­tion for a spot fittingly titled “restricted bling.” drake, presented as supremely easy-going, optimistic and great at high-fives, is easily convinced by law­yers to incorporate clunky corporate clauses into his hit single. his agree­able attitude towards switching loose­ly but memorably aligns a switch to t-mobile with accessibility. (they also ran a spot that featured steve harvey nothing short of shocking when juxta­posed with the super bowl, appealing to the opposite ideological demographic as possibly the most commercial event in the world. 
as the most watched music event of the year, the halftime show is ex­pected to be the most ubiquitous. this year’s choice of performers followed the trend of recent years of seasoned-yet­relevant artists, as opposed to earlier years of throwbacks like madonna and the who. in an age when parents are streaming new music instead of replay­ing old records, these are the performers that now appeal to the widest audience. 
despite their reputation for impres­sive live performance, coldplay’s pres­ence was shrunken by the crowd and the venue. most of the band’s energy was in the form of martin’s jumping. maybe a bruno mars drum solo would have livened things. 
a mere two years after his headlin­ing performance, bruno mars came 
giving his second apology of the year, but this time for a mistake in verizon’s marketing.) 
Audi 
the car company’s ad, “the commander,” features a retired astro­naut disenchanted with his forever-grounded life. his son gifts him keys to an audi r8, and the man’s experience parallels the control and rituals he once had in his spaceship. the ad was elevated by song choice: david bowie’s “starman.” with bowie’s recent death, the commercial proved a well-done, af­fecting tribute — whether planned or serendipitous. 
Budweiser 
budweiser has mastered the art of making great commercials: give amy schumer and seth rogen freedom to write a commercial about running for president, and this is what you get. the ad is witty, fast-paced and leaves a last­ing brand image: “america has seen the light … and there’s a bud in front of it.” now that’s a big caucus. 
Prius 
you have to hand it to toyota for at­tempting to change the stereotype of the prius. however, a bank robbery prius car chase was too laughable. was toyota trying to be serious in relation onstage to mark ronson’s funky spin­ning. metallic suits against the blue sky captured from a low angle was one of the most surreal shots of the perfor­mance: call me a conspiracy theorist, but i’m tempted to suspect this par­ticular shot was filmed in a studio. the mesmerizing choreography was a pick­me-up after a headliner hardly more in­teresting than sports. 
beyoncé and her girl army took for­mation turning the football field into a battlefield reminiscent of the video for “run the world,” performing the po­litically charged song “Formation” re­leased only the day before. only three years after headlining the best halftime show in my memory, beyoncé brought yet another fierce and sexy performance but obviously couldn’t reach the level she did in 2013. beyoncé is said to have dominated this year’s performance, but bruno mars might have actually had the upper hand in the climactic dance battle with Queen bey. 
to its new line of hybrid vehicles, or just entirely self-deprecating? 
either way, the commercial was a full minute of laughable phrases relating to the prius that tried to break away from its speed limit abiding drivers. good luck toyota — prius drivers are their own brand of people, and targeting them as speed racers might not be the best position. i would know — my fam­ily owns three of them. 
Super Bowl Babies 
this is a weird concept that alludes to the arousing potential of sports. the humorous potential is there, but the content proves too self-important to deliver. the musical montage of seal with babies in choir gowns has me wishing the nFl had just gone the ani­mal route (as so many brands did) and shown some cute baby seals. 
Trend Takeaways 
a lot of this year’s super bowl com­mercials stood out for try-hard meme humor (mountain dew’s annoyingly confounding puppy monkey baby) or just sheer weirdness (no honda sheep-singing “somebody to love” pun in­tended). willem dafoe, steve buscemi and christopher walken were all used in a similar way by different brands: iconically ironic, awkward humor de­livered by established celebrities. 
the inclusion of two recent headliners was an obvious point to the past. in its 50th year, the super bowl got retrospec­tive, looking further into the past with video clips from past performers like michael Jackson and paul mccartney. coldplay, bruno mars and beyoncé came together for a montage including lyrics from prince’s “purple rain” and u2’s “beautiful day” in a sentimental conclusion. 
the attempt to send a “deeper mes­sage” with the halftime show becomes more blatant each year. this time, the crowd even spelled out the colorful message, “believe in love.” promoting peace and equality, the halftime show is the perfect opportunity to inflate your hope in humanity before returning to watching guys who are getting paid millions of dollars knock the snot out of each other. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at                          kmcgarry@nd.edu 
an unfortunate misuse of the super bowl ad slot was turning it into a super bowel psa: Xifaxan’s muppet­esque large intestine mascot and an opioid-induced complex commercial that said the word “constipation” a few too many times. no one wants to hear about “opioid-induced diarrhea” while inhaling chili. (note: while rewatch­ing the oic spot on youtube, i was first forced to watch an ad for a squaty potty, “the stool for better stools.”) 
although the health-related psas largely ran amiss, colgate delivered an effective ad founded in sustainability. the spot showed people grasping des­perately for water from a sink where a man lazily brushed his teeth with the faucet running. with the current crisis in Flint, michigan, the spot resonated. 
of the over 40 celebrity appear­ances in the game’s commercials (not counting the 20 faces of ryan reynolds in hyundai’s spot), the amazon echo’s prime spot directly after halftime dropped missy elliott’s new, and fitting­ly sporty, single, “pep rally.” combine that with Jason schwartzman’s max Fischer-channeling role in the ad, and the spot essentially extended my half­time revelry. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                          emcaulif@nd.edu and Tommy Anderson at tander18@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 
IN FOCUS 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ERIN RICE | The Observer 

Dominic Alberigi – Jenn Cha 
Who they are: 
dominic alberigi, the pres­idential candidate, is a ju­nior from the san Francisco bay area, currently living in alumni hall. majoring in fi­nance and chinese, alberigi tutors esl students in south bend and is a member of the 
notre  dame  men’s  rugby  
club.  
Jenn  cha  hails  from  

elkhart, indiana, and resides in welsh Family hall. The ju­nior is a balfour-hesburgh scholar, majoring in english and american studies with a minor in africana studies. cha currently serves as the vice president of prismnd, an advising fellow with matriculatend and on the editorial board of the Journal of undergraduate research. 
Top priority: Creating a mental health app for students 
Focusing their platform around mental health, the two plan to launch a mental health smartphone applica­tion. according to alberigi, the university provides many mental health resources that students do not realize are available to them — by cre­ating an app, these resourc­es would be put at students’ fingertips. The application would include links to ex­ternal resources and ap­pointment schedules for the university counseling center (ucc) and would also incor­porate the existing warmline chat service, a program through which students are able to contact professionals in a non-crisis situation to via a messaging system. 
Best idea: Dining hall reform 
many campaigns, both past and present, have pro­posed an overhaul of the current dining hall system. however, the system pro­posed by alberigi and cha is well researched and appears feasible to implement. The plan would allow students to purchase a certain num­ber of “points” every semes­ter, with each meal costing a certain amount of points. students would be able to enter the dining halls as of­ten as they wish, as long as they had the points to pur­chase the meal. alberigi said he had discussed the ticket’s plan with Food services, and it has been implemented at various other universities across the country, provid­ing the university with a clear-cut model. The plan, if put into action, would ben­efit the majority of students in providing flexibility with dining hall hours and thus is the ticket’s best idea. 
Worst idea: Encouraging all freshmen to visit UCC 
while advocating for more students to visit the ucc is an admirable goal, having students visit the ucc re­gardless of need is unneces­sary. The ucc already has difficulty accommodating the needs of students with­out bogging down the system with needless visits. alberigi and cha believe creating de­mand for a larger counseling center will result in changes, but in the interim, the sys­tem would be made sluggish and unable to meet the needs of students. The thought be­hind the plan is commend­able, but the plan itself is unsustainable. 
Most feasible: Providing one-credit courses in life skills 
The ticket proposed ex­panding the current system of one-credit courses to include more relevant courses en­compassing life skills. due to the fact the system is already in place, the idea would be easy and fairly inexpensive to implement. including south bend professionals in the program is also an innovative way to strengthen the bond between the university and the city. 
Least feasible: Animal therapy rooms 
as mental health is the cen­ter of their platform, alberigi and cha focused on expand­ing the services available at the ucc. one of the ways in which they plan to do this in­cludes opening animal thera­py rooms that operate around the clock in the counseling center. The rooms — one for puppies and one for kit­tens — would theoretically be staffed by volunteers who are participating in a one-credit animal Therapy course, with walks and grooming provided by volunteers. however, the costs, labor and effort in­volved do not justify the ben­efits this plan would bring. 

Bottom line: Big ideas, but lack focus and feasibility 
The alberigi-cha ticket of­fers aspirational ideas and lofty goals. The candidates’ focus on mental health is commendable but their plan is not practical — many of their ideas are costly and cannot be implemented in a one-year term. 
Louis Bertolotti – Elizabeth Fenton 
Who they are: boca raton, Florida, and lives stopped functioning as an in-to the student body of things combatting that problem. 
presidential candidate in ryan hall on campus. a dependent body and should they intend to accomplish. because the newsletter would louis bertolotti is a junior junior majoring in market-be holding the executive cab-be sent out over email, put-from Tenafly, new Jersey. a ing, Fenton previously served inet accountable. his plan Worst Idea: Gender Relations ting it together and circulat­transfer to the university from on the vidal-devine execu-to repurpose senate would improvements ing it amongst students would holy cross college, bertolotti tive cabinet as the director include giving more power The only exception to the require little effort beyond currently lives in alumni hall of national engagement and to senators as well as having directness and clearness of actually writing it. and serves as the executive outreach. she works as a foot-each cabinet member speak the platform comes in the director of the student union ball ambassador in the re-at the weekly meetings to gender relations depart-Least feasible: Changing board (sub), which oversees cruiting office and as a tour give updates on what prog-ment section. whereas other the student football ticket and plans programming on guide for admissions and the ress their department has sections lay out clear goals exchange and improving Wi-Fi campus, including concerts, eck center. made. with defined deadlines, the on the quads weekly movies and an Tostal. Fenton said her top prior-three tenets of this section bertolotti and Fenton did he also served as director Top priority: Reforming ity would be the campaign’s all have a deadline of “year-not have a concrete plan in of the First undergraduate senate and standardizing taxis taxi standardization plan. round” or “2016-2017 school place to implement the pro-experience in leadership bertolotti said his top pri-The ticket plans to work with year” and are much less posed changes to student (Fuel) under the vidal-ority for the next year was local taxi companies to es-well defined. The campaign ticketing — including allow­devine administration in his the reforming student senate. tablish criteria for cabs to promises to continue exist-ing prospective students the sophomore year. citing senate’s c+ grade from be endorsed by student gov-ing sexual assault prevention opportunity to use available 
vice presidential candidate The observer in december, ernment as safe and fair. campaigns including it’s on student tickets — and it seems 
elizabeth Fenton hails from bertolotti said the group has approved cabs would prom-us and greendot and to “re-unlikely the Ticket office ise to take students home re-vamp the brother-sister dorm would approve of a plan that gardless of what campus they relationship.” additionally, could potentially cause more live on and not wait for full the decision to include “an game day headaches than or past-capacity cabs before awareness to the impor-benefits. in terms of improv­taking students where they tance of mental health” in ing wi-Fi coverage outside, want to go. the gender relations section oiT has already struggled 
seems out of place. while all to address previous wireless Best Idea: A clear, direct of these ideas are good, in connectivity issues inside. platform outlining their goals comparison to the rest of the 
The strongest part of the platform, they seem some-Bottom Line: Highly bertolotti-Fenton platform is what haphazardly thrown organized, but business as usual its directness; each depart-together. bertolotti and Fenton have ment in the executive cabinet the most combined experience has at least three concrete Most feasible: Bimonthly of the three tickets, which has programming or initiative-student government newsletter given them insight into how based goals, and a deadline most students are not aware student government currently by which they have to com-of what student government operates. however, their top plete them. This lends le-actually does; the intro-priorities, while commend­gitimacy to the promise of duction of a twice-monthly able, do not seem to align with transparency and account-newsletter sent to the student those of the student body as a ability by offering a checklist body could go a long way in whole. 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | The observer 
Corey Robinson – Becca Blais 
Who they are: 
student body presidential candidate corey robinson, a junior program of liberal studies major with sustainabil­ity and business-economics minors, currently serves as the vice president of the student-athlete advisory council (saac) and previously held the role of athletics representative on the vidal-devine executive cabinet. The san antonio na­tive and former Knott hall resi­dent is a receiver on the football team and the co-founder of the non-profit one shirt one body. 
robinson’s running mate, becca blais, is a sophomore po­litical science and peace stud­ies major from new smyrna beach, Florida. blais served on Judicial council as an election committee member her fresh­man year and most recently held the position of director of internal affairs on the ricketts­ruelas executive cabinet. The Farley hall resident is also a dean’s Fellow in the college of arts and letters. 
Top priority: Strengthening and expanding sexual assault resources on campus 
robinson highlighted the ticket’s plan to train nurses at st. liam’s to becoming sexual assault nurse examiners (sane), who would be able to administer rape kits on campus and help care for sexual assault victims, while blais noted a desire to improve the Title iX process that follows sexual as­saults, including evaluating the disciplinary and rehabilitation measures for students found guilty of sexual assault. 
Best idea: Providing a SANE in St. Liam’s 
robinson noted how, at the moment, sexual assault survi­vors at notre dame must travel off campus via taxicab or person­al vehicle to st. Joseph hospital in order to have a rape kit adminis­tered, which can create unsafe or frustrating circumstances that might discourage survivors from taking these steps in a time-sen­sitive process. They propose to “give students the resources to be safe and comfortable” right on campus by training nurses in st. liam’s to administer rape kits, and they have researched the steps and funds necessary to fol­low through on this idea as soon as they take office. 
Worst idea: Reform of student senate 
while a good idea in theory, their plan to reform student sen­ate needs to be more detailed and efficient. They mentioned bringing in speakers, such as university administrators and faculty members, to gauge and incorporate student thoughts into their decisions, similar to what robinson experienced within the athletic adminis­tration in his role on saac. however, senate has already done something similar to this in the past year with negligible results. blais also recalled how senators tend to get bogged down in parliamentary procedure and become discouraged from shar­ing their ideas as the year pro­gresses. but procedural reform does not seem to be enough to fully change a group like senate, which has had a minimal impact on student life, so more specifics are needed for how they can ac­complish this effectively. 
Most feasible: Partnering with the Career Center and lo­cal organizations to help stu­dents find internships in the South Bend area 
much like their plan to train st. liam’s nurses to become sanes, robinson and blais have already laid the ground­work for their “strengthening the bond” initiative, which would connect students with local internships through groups like enFocus and by posting a greater number of opportunities more clearly on the career center website. For students who would like to work but don’t have cars, blais said they have also looked into the “doable” process of rerouting Transpo lines to help students efficiently trav­el to their jobs. 
Least feasible: Overseeing Notre Dame’s divestment from fossil fuels in the University endowment. 
The push to have the university divest from corporations that prof­it from fossil fuels has been a goal of several past student government officials and groups on campus. and while it is a commendable goal and one robinson and blais would certainly be able to promote with university administration, history has shown that the deci­sion is out of the hands of members of student government and not one robinson and blais would be able to actively “oversee,” so much as one they could encourage. 
Bottom line: Optimizing existing resources and connections 

robinson and blais under­stand and noted how student government isn’t necessar­ily the end-all, be-all of stu­dent decisions, but rather an organization that has the power to work with other groups with similar ideas in order to achieve their goals. They know how to partner with student groups and university resource centers, such as the career center, to efficiently bring about change. additionally, robinson’s es­tablished relationships with university administrators, in­cluding university president Fr. John Jenkins and athletics director Jack swarbrick, would likely help him and blais ac­complish their tasks in a time­ly manner. 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 

The Observer endorses Robinson-Blais 

EDITORIAL 
when notre dame students vote for student body president and vice president wednesday, they face a choice between three intelligent, passionate and experienced tickets: juniors dominic alberigi and Jenn cha, juniors louis bertolotti and elizabeth Fenton and junior corey robinson and sophomore becca blais. The observer editorial board inter­viewed each ticket over the weekend, and after evaluating their priorities, plans and visions for the university for the coming year, we voted to en­dorse the robinson-blais ticket. 
each ticket presents a distinct vision, informed by a diverse range of experiences and campus in­volvement. The bertolotti-Fenton ticket boasts substantial student government experience — bertolotti as director of the First undergraduate experience in leadership (Fuel) last year and di­rector of the student union board (sub) this year and Fenton as the director of national engagement and outreach under the vidal-devine adminis­tration. while it does not have any experience in student government, the alberigi-cha ticket has worked extensively with social justice issues on campus, experience that inspires its mental health-focused campaign. The robinson-blais ticket brings a combination of student government and athletic involvement that connects it to a wide portion of the student body — blais as director of internal affairs for the ricketts-ruelas adminis­tration and a member of Judicial council’s elec­tion committee last year and robinson as athletics representative in the vidal-devine administration and vice president of the student-athlete advisory council. 
overall, we believe the robinson-blais ticket provides the most innovative and exciting ap­proach to best serve notre dame students and act as an effective link between students and the university administration. Their focus on build­ing upon existing resources and opportunities to make further progress in strengthening a relation­ship with south bend and combatting sexual as­sault makes for an ambitious yet attainable vision for the coming year. 
specifically, robinson and blais’ focus on sexual assault prevention and response separates them from the other tickets. Their explicit proposals — to better equip saint liam’s to respond to sexual assault, critically examine the university’s Title iX reporting process and reform the cross-campus reporting process for students at neighboring schools — reflect an understanding of the benefits and drawbacks of current policies and can realis­tically take the momentum and discussion built by the previous three student government admin­istrations and turn it into actions that benefit all students. 
Their plan to deepen students’ relationship with south bend also builds on the progress made by previous administrations and utilizes existing structures and resources to make the city of south bend not just a place where students go to perform service or dine out, but rather a place with a deep, symbiotic bond with the university and its stu­dents. while robinson and blais’ vision to reroute Transpo bus lines to better accommodate students with jobs and internships in the city may be one of their loftier goals, their plan to advertise and unify resources for students to better engage with and work in south bend can form the kind of relation­ship between the university and the city previous administrations have dreamed of creating. 
robinson’s time and energy commitments to the football team certainly cause concern, but it is a concern the ticket has already anticipated and found a way to circumvent. robinson, who will re­main on campus for the summer during the team’s training, vowed he would continue to work to de­velop student government projects while practic­ing and completing coursework. next school year, robinson said he would be able to minimize class commitments because he will have already com­pleted his senior thesis and attained enough cred­its to graduate and thus be able to fully dedicate his time and attention to student government and football. 
Further, robinson’s status as a high-profile student-athlete gives him a powerful and public voice, which his administration could harness into effectively leveraging the university adminis­tration to better respond to student demands and desires. having a football player as the leader of student government could, for the first time in a long while, make more notre dame students ex­cited about and engaged with student government as a platform for their ideas and passions. 
while we believe the robinson-blais ticket presents the best vision and leadership for stu­dent government, the other two tickets also pres­ent compelling cases for their campaigns. The bertolotti-Fenton ticket has more student govern­ment experience than the other tickets, and the candidates have effectively used that knowledge to craft a campaign platform that is clear, focused and attainable. Transparency is one of the ticket’s main concerns, and this is reflected in the individ­ual timelines accompanying each of the promises on their platform. 
however, bertolotti and Fenton’s campaign goals, while feasible and impactful, ignore some of the most pressing issues facing notre dame — issues such as diversity, mental health and sexual assault are treated only tangentially in their plat­form. a bimonthly newsletter, taxi standardiza­tion, football ticket changes and senate reform are all good ideas the student body would benefit from, but they are not all that student government can and should be about. 
robinson and blais could afford to look to their rival candidates for an example of a straightfor­ward and accountable schedule and apply it to their own ideas. many students believe student government does not do anything of importance, and staying accountable and in touch with stu­dents is the best way to combat this idea. we would like to see the elected ticket commit to those val­ues while simultaneously pushing to solve the big­gest, most important issues on campus. 
The alberigi-cha ticket has certainly keyed in on one of the most important issues not only at notre dame, but on campuses across the nation: mental health. yet their ideas for how to address this enormous and difficult topic lacked feasibility and focus. Their plan for a mental health app for smartphones would be beneficial to some, but the candidates failed to explain how this app could be developed in a timely, cost-effective way or adver­tised and integrated into the everyday schedule of a stressed-out student. 
Furthermore, alberigi and cha have put the cart before the horse in calling for more students to visit the ucc, thus putting pressure on the admin­istration to commit more resources to the center. This would inevitably lead to a scheduling crush that could potentially deny counseling and care for students with the most need. while we cer­tainly would encourage any student dealing with any form of mental illness to utilize the resources available on campus and agree these resources should be further developed, it would be wiser to improve the resources first. 
ultimately, when students cast their votes and a winner is declared, notre dame students will be well served by any of the tickets. For their energy, experience and ability to connect with students and administrators alike, The observer endorses corey robinson and becca blais for student body president and vice president. 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 
the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


CROSSWORD | will shortZ 
JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | the mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: the changes and sacrifices you make will bring you good fortune. take initiative and show more discipline when it comes to following through with your plans. don’t get angry; get moving. inconsistency and procrastination will hold you back if you don’t think things through carefully. distance yourself from the people who drag you down. your numbers are 8, 19, 21, 23, 27, 32, 40. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): use your talents and skills to make improvements to whatever project you are working toward. don’t get bogged down with office politics or hearsay. let your actions speak for you. don’t mix business with pleasure. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): make your mark. share your thoughts and doors will open. refuse to let emotional issues hold you back. don’t fight a losing battle when you should be concentrating on getting ahead. express your concerns, ideas and solutions and keep moving forward. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): offer your services and negotiate on your own behalf. an honest assessment of a situation and how you propose to make things better will add to your credibility and allow you to get a better understanding of what’s entailed. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): discuss your plans and form partnerships with people who are heading down a similar path. nurture important relationships and share your feelings. once you recognize where you stand, you will be able to make personal adjustments. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): emotional spending will be your downfall. if you want to make changes, do so prudently. don’t bring about changes that might jeopardize your professional position. take a wait-and-see approach, but have solutions ready to implement. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): enjoy your life and make a point to indulge in something that makes you feel good about your accomplishments. don’t feel pressured to make a snap decision regarding money, health or a contractual concern. make romance a priority. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): reassess your current situation, and don’t feel the need to bend to what someone else wants. you have to satisfy your own needs before you can take care of others. sign up for whatever will bring about positive personal change. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make plans, discuss your intentions and express your feelings. once you know exactly where you stand, you will be able to make decisions that will improve your life and help you move in a positive direction. love is on the rise. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t fool yourself into thinking you can splurge. don’t compromise your chances of doing something good for the people you love. a heartfelt discussion with someone special will help you make the right choice. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you will make a lasting impression with the ideas and solutions you suggest. you can bring about a healthy financial change if you are diligent about what you do to get ahead. celebrate with someone you love. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make changes for the right reasons. don’t let your emotions take over or a regrettable incident lead you down the wrong path. protect against injury, accidents and arguments. think rationally before you proceed. discipline and mindfulness will be required. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): money matters will become unstable if you overspend. don’t get involved in situations that require institutional intervention. stick to rules, regulations and the truth. Focus on partnerships and associations with those involved in worthwhile causes. romance will improve your personal life. 

Birthday Baby: you are insightful, competitive and steadfast. you are outspoken and proactive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyt and JeFF knurek 

to receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | the observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
louisville ban is misplaced 

Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
in a week filled with super bowl coverage, one shocking story in college sports didn’t get the press that it deserved. 
on Friday, the louisville men’s basketball program insti­tuted a self-imposed ban from postseason play this season. this is amid allegations that andre mcgee, a former men’s basketball staffer at the school, hired a former escort, katina powell, to bring dancers to strip and have sex with recruits and players at an on-campus dorm. 
certainly a self-imposed postseason ban is not unprec­edented. we saw it last year with syracuse, who did so amid ac­cusations of academic miscon­duct within the program. the hope with these self-imposed bans is that the ncaa will see these preemptive moves as sufficient, or at least restrain it from levying further bans which would affect future regular and postseason play — such was the case for smu’s ban for this post­season — and discourage future recruits from decommitting. 
but this case is different. 
syracuse’s self-imposed ban occurred within what was es­sentially a lost season for the storied program. they were in no position to qualify for the ncaa tournament, ensuring that imposing a postseason was nothing but an empty gesture or threatening words that carried no sting. 
this season’s louisville team, however, had national champi­onship aspirations. Following a win over then-no. 2 north carolina, the cardinals were 18-4 prior to Friday’s announce­ment. in a season defined by an unusual degree of parity, the cardinals were right in the thick of the championship race, with that win over the tar heels to demonstrate as much. 
and it was at this moment the school decided to essen­tially bring an end to the team’s season. 
i’m not here to say that the program doesn’t deserve sanc­tions as harsh as a postseason ban. if these allegations are true, then the program deserves far more than it has handed to itself. 
and that’s why i believe the worst is yet to come. 
there is only one reason louisville athletic director tom Zurich would make this decision during this season of all seasons. there is only one reason school president dr. James ramsey would sign off on such a decision. there is only one reason louisville wouldn’t continue to fight these shocking allegations until the very end. 
that reason is that, despite all of head coach rick pitino’s grumblings to the contrary, powell’s accusations are cred­ible enough for the ncaa to be­lieve them. this decision is the school’s way of entering a plea of guilty and hoping the ncaa finds its self-imposed punish­ments as sufficient. 
and i hope it doesn’t. 
if the school is actually guilty of the actions powell accuses them of, then even a ban that has much of an impact as this one does isn’t enough to clean the slate. pitino said saturday he thought any punishment lev­ied against the program should be financial in nature. but even that isn’t enough. 
the actions the program is accused of are reprehensible. a message needs to be sent to the program. punishing the kids on this team during a season they have worked this hard for simply to avoid losing scholar­ships and recruits isn’t fair to the players, especially when the core of the team is a pair of fifth-year, graduate transfers who only wanted to have a taste of the ncaa tournament in their final season of eligibility. the program should be held accountable for its actions, not this particular team. the school has turned them into the scapegoats for what it allowed to happen in the past, taking away their season to save the future. 
but it is exactly the future that needs to be hit hardest. the allegation is that the program allowed dancers to have sex with recruits during the recruit­ment process. so why shouldn’t recruitment be what takes the bulk of the damage of sanc­tions? that might not be what the program wants, but it’s what it deserves. 
the ncaa needs to send a message that this isn’t accept­able, and the school shouldn’t be allowed to circumvent that. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAAW | uconn 66, south carolina 54 
Huskies run away with win over South Carolina 
Associated Press 
columbia, s.c. — breanna stewart had 25 points and 10 rebounds as no. 1 uconn again proved who rules the women’s game, running past no. 2 south carolina 66-54 on monday night. 
the gamecocks had won their first 22 games and, in front of their first sold out crowd at 18,000-seat colonial life arena, figured to give the three-time de­fending ncaa champion huskies (23-0) their sternest test of the season. 
instead, stewart and uconn led by 15 points in the second quarter and never let the southeastern conference champs get back in it. 
stewart was the main reason why, finishing with her ninth double-double this season to go with five blocks. the 6-foot-4 senior also played strong defense against south carolina’s inside stars in a’ja wilson and alaina coates. the gamecocks duo, averaging 28 points combined this sea­son, ended with just about half that (15) in their first loss of the season. 
uconn won its 60th straight game while ending south carolina’s 45-game home victory string — hand­ing the gamecocks their first loss here since falling to texas a&m 50-48 on Feb. 10, 2013. 
the huskies also upped their record to 19-3 in no. 1 vs. no. 2 showdowns. it was their second consecu­tive such win over south carolina, which lost 87-62 at uconn as the country’s top team last February. 
morgan tuck had 16 points and moriah Jefferson 12 for uconn. 
wilson and sarah imovbioh had 13 points apiece to lead south carolina. 
uconn again showed quickly why it has no equal in the women’s game. stewart and tuck each had six points as the huskies opened up a 16-8 lead. they were still ahead 20-12 when stewart hit for a 3-pointer and a driving layup to in­crease the margin. 
uconn was eventually ahead by 15 points before the gamecocks put forth a burst in the final four min­utes of the second to cut the lead to 35-25 at the break. 
south carolina, though, lost its leading scorer in wilson with 4:22 left in the second quarter as she in­jured her left leg. wilson was jostling for a rebound she landed hard and was in ob­vious pain just off the court. trainers worked on her lower leg before she was helped up and led to the locker room. 
wilson returned to the bench late in the third quar­ter, her lower leg heavily taped, and played the final period. 
it’s the second game that south carolina played with­out a key performer for a long stretch. mitchell sus­tained a lower back bruise last thursday night in a win over kentucky. mitchell, too, had to be helped off the court right before halftime. however, she returned to the bench for the second half and could’ve played. coach dawn staley chose to sit her out. 
Tip ins 
uconn: the huskies are 51-10 against teams ranked in the top 10 since the start of the 2008-09 season. ... stewart has averaged 17 points and eight rebounds in her 19 games against oppo­nents ranked in the top five. 
south carolina: gamecocks dawn staley fell to 0-4 as a coach against uconn. she won both match-ups against the huskies as virginia’s dynamic point guard a quarter century ago. ... alaina coates came in averaging 17.3 points and 12.3 rebounds her past three game. she was held to one field goal for the game against uconn, although she did grab nine boards. 
Up next 
uconn plays at temple on sunday. south carolina plays Florida on thursday night. 
NCAAM | duke 72, louisville 65 
louisville falls to duke 
Associated Press 
durham, n.c. — Freshman brandon ingram had 18 points and 10 re­bounds, and duke beat no. 13 louisville 72-65 on monday night. 
grayson allen scored 19 points and luke kennard had 11 for the blue devils (18-6, 7-4 atlantic coast conference). they shot 50 percent in the second half and hit 10 of 12 free throws in the final 3:14 while beat­ing a ranked opponent for the first time this season. 
donovan mitchell scored 17 points and Quentin snider, who fouled out with 2:01 left, added 12 for the cardinals (19-5, 8-3), who shot 56 percent in the second half and erased a 15-point deficit but missed a chance to take sole pos­session of first place in the league. 
the key stretch came when louisville had the ball down 66-62 with about 2½ minutes left. ray spalding left a layup short off the iron, duke’s marshall plumlee grabbed the re­bound and it was at least a two-possession game the rest of the way. 
ingram and matt Jones both made two free throws on the next two possessions before freshman derryck thornton hit a jumper in the lane with the shot clock winding down to make it 70-62 with 33 seconds left. 
trey lewis swished a 3-pointer with 24.5 seconds left to pull the cardinals within five and thornton missed two free throws with 22.5 seconds left, but damion lee missed a 3-pointer with about 10 sec­onds to play and kennard iced it with two more free throws with 6.4 seconds left. 
plumlee added 10 points for the blue devils, who opened a run of four games in 12 days against the top three teams in the acc standings — all ranked 13th or better in the latest poll. 
lewis finished with 11 points, while lee had 10 on 3-of-15 shooting in his re­turn from a knee bruise that kept him out of the boston college win on saturday. 
this was louisville’s first road game since announc­ing it would self-impose a postseason ban this year amid an ongoing inves­tigation into a sex scan­dal involving escorts, and it coincided with coach rick pitino’s first visit to cameron indoor stadium. 
pitino fell to 1-4 against the blue devils, against whom he’s had some classic matchups through the years 
— but none at cameron. 

the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC BASKETBALL | hope 95, smc 58 
belles lose again to hope after poor first half 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
despite winning the sec­ond half by a point, a poor start by saint mary’s proved to be too much to overcome in saturday’s 95-58 loss to no. 4 hope. 
the belles (1-21, 1-12 miaa) weren’t able to top 20 points in the first half, en­tering halftime down, 55-17. the team struggled through­out the half, failing to score its first points until almost eight minutes into the game. the belles gained some mo­mentum as the points start­ed to come in the second quarter, but they trailed, 34-8, before they moved into double digits. 
saint mary’s shot just 20.7 percent from the field in the half, while hope (21-0, 13­
0) shot a high 66.7 percent mark from the field to build its large advantage. the belles also struggled keep­ing care of the ball, giving up 20 points to the Flying dutch on turnovers in the first 20 minutes. 
after a difficult start to the game, the belles showed themselves in a better light in the second half. after re­evaluating the team’s ap­proach on both sides of the ball, saint mary’s showed massive improvements after halftime. belles head coach Jennifer henley said she felt a more aggressive offensive approach was key. 
“we made some adjust­ments in our offense in the second half that allowed us to attack better,” henley said. 
statistically, saint mary’s played like a completely dif­ferent team in the second half. the belles had a 51.6 percent field goal percent­age and was able to outscore hope by one point, 41-40, in the second half. 
senior forward krista knapke earned her fifth double-double of the season, while her fellow senior cap­tains, guard maddie kohler and forward eleni shea, joined her in double digits, scoring 13 and 11 points, respectively. 
according to henley, hope’s defense was the most difficult aspect to overcome, but the belles made progress in breaking through it in the second half. 
“hope did a great job de­fensively in taking away our initial pass in our offensive sets,” henley said. “this forced us to run more of a spread offense and look for the one on one option more than we usually like to do.” 
according to henley, the game was not all bad news for the belles, especially consid­ering their comeback against the conference leader. 
“hope is a great team,” henley said. “give them credit. not only are they the best in our division, but they are the fourth-ranked division iii team in the country. we have three games left, and we are look­ing to send our seniors off on a great season.” lost her fourth battle with against adrian, the proceeds 

the next contest for the cancer in 2014, to benefit the of which will go toward the belles is the annual pink children of those who have fund. tipoff is scheduled for game. the game will benefit lost parent to breast cancer. 7:30 p.m. the angel wings Fund, which the belles will be selling was created by former alma headbands and pink des-Contact Elizabeth Greason at  coach keisha brown, who serts at wednesday’s game egreason@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS | illinois 5, nd 2; nd 5, indiana 2; nd 7, ball state 0 
notre dame splits weekend competitions 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame took two wins and a loss in a three-match weekend, falling at no. 12 illinois on Friday, 5-2, and defeating indiana, 5-2, and ball state, 7-0, on sunday at home. 
Friday’s trip was the second one to champaign, illinois, of the season for the irish (4­4), who fell earlier in the sea­son in a 4-0 decision to the Fighting illini (5-1) on Jan. 22 at the ita kickoff weekend. 
senior alex lawson and junior eddy covalschi put notre dame ahead early with a 6-1 win at no. 1 doubles, but the illini rallied to take the nos. 2 and 3 flights, 6-2 and 6-3 respectively, to secure the doubles point and take a 1-0 lead into the singles matches. 
there, notre dame contin­ued its slow start, dropping the first two singles match­es to finish. senior Quentin monaghan lost 6-0, 6-0 at no. 1 singles to illini sophomore aleks vukic, while lawson fell 6-1, 6-4 in his match at no. 2 singles. 
Junior Josh hagar got the irish on the board with a 6-2, 6-1 win at no. 5 singles, but by the time freshman grayson broadus won a 3-6, 7-6 (7-3), 1-0 (10-8) decision at no. 6 singles, the irish had already fallen to illinois for the second time this year. 
sunday’s action was kinder to notre dame, as the irish raced out winners in both of their contests. 
the early match saw notre dame go up against another big ten foe, topping indiana (4-3) by a 5-2 margin with wins at the top flights. 
covalschi and lawson won again 6-1 at no. 1 dou­bles, while broadus and monaghan grabbed a 6-2 win at the no. 2 spot to seal the doubles point. 
monaghan rebounded from his double-bagel loss Friday to win 6-1, 6-1 at no. 1 singles before lawson won 7-5, 6-1 at no. 3 and hagar took a 6-1, 6-3 decision to seal a notre dame win over the hoosiers. 
ball state (2-3) proved to be an even more straightfor­ward task for notre dame en route to a 2-1 day. 
covalschi and lawson took their third win of the week­end at no. 1 doubles, 6-4, while the irish rotated some players to get sophomores brendon kempin and drew dawson a shot at no. 3 dou­bles, which they took 6-4 to win the doubles point. 
lawson got notre dame off to a quick start with a 6-2, 6-0 win at no. 2 singles before se­nior kenneth sabacinski won 6-0, 6-0 at the no. 5 flight to put the irish ahead, 3-0. broadus secured the win with a 6-0, 6-1 match at the no. 3 court before wins by senior nicolas montoya, monaghan and freshman daniel rayl finished off the sweep of the visiting cardinals. 
back to .500, notre dame 

will return to action saturday, when it hosts michigan at 4 
p.m. at eck tennis pavilion. 
paid advertisement 


the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

FENCING | duke duals 
notre dame closes regular season in durham 
Observer Staff Report 
the irish closed out their regular season with standout performances on both the men’s and women’s teams at the duke duals in durham, north carolina. the no. 2 men’s team went 4-1 on the first day of the event, and the no. 2 women’s team finished its undefeated regular sea­son strong with a 5-0 sweep on day two. 
while notre dame pre­vailed over no. 4 penn state at the decicco duals last weekend, the men’s team fell 16-11 to the nittany lions in its first round of bouts on saturday. poor performanc­es in the epee (3-6) and sabre (2-7) categories set the team back early. 
the irish recovered with four wins to follow: notre dame topped John hopkins, 22-5, brandeis, 25-2, and notched two more wins over conference opponents, beat­ing no. 9 duke, 16-11 and north carolina, 25-2. 
sophomore virgile collineau led the foil squad with a 14-1 performance for the day, while sophomore sa­bre Jonah shainberg finished 13-2. both fencers went 3-0 against the host blue devils, which proved critical to win that acc rivalry match. 
the women’s bouts began sunday, and the irish did not fail to live up to their unde­feated record. they began with a 17-10 win over duke, with perfect scores by senior catherine lee in foil and sophomore Francesca russo and freshman tara hassett in sabre. 
russo and hassett led the sabre squad which went 9-0 in the 24-3 irish win over brandeis, and the foilists went 9-0 against conference opponent north carolina, who also fell to the irish, 24-3. 
sophomore erin dietsche and freshman elyssa kleiner both had flawless 3-0 perfor­mances in the foil in notre dame’s 16-11 win over no. 9 penn state, while freshman epee madeline antekeier also went 3-0 when the irish defeated no. 10 temple, 17-10. these acc matches were major victories for the women’s team, which is just two points shy of tak­ing columbia’s place as the no. 1 women’s team in the country. acc championship that of the team is traveling to 

the acc championships notre dame has hosted in the Junior olympic Fencing loom on the horizon to de-any sport, to be held at the championships for individ­termine final rankings at castellan Family Fencing ual competition. the four-the end of this month. it center. day meet begins Friday in will be the first neutral-site but in the interim, some cleveland. 
there.” 
notre dame’s veteran qualities weren’t only on display in attack saturday, with three of the squad’s captains — graduate stu­dent barbara sullivan and seniors stephanie peragallo and brie custis — working to limit Jacksonville to just 13 shots in a performance in which the irish successfully cleared on 18 of 19 attempts. 
the contributions from and chemistry among notre dame’s team saturday didn’t only come from returning players, however, as three freshmen who played club lacrosse together in high school marked their irish debuts with noteworthy performances: attack nikki ortega scored and assisted twice for a four-point opener while Jenn casadonte scored midway through the first half for her first collegiate point. 
goalie samantha giacolone, who was ranked as the top goalkeeper of this year’s class by inside lacrosse, marked her first time in an irish uniform with a five-save performance en route to the win. 
notre dame returns to ac­tion saturday at noon for its home opener when it hosts no. 16 stanford, looking to avenge an early-season loss a year ago. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

W Lax 
continued From page 16 
her 20th career hat trick. 
senior attack rachel sexton, who was second for notre dame with 37 goals a season before, joined Fortunato with a hat trick before halftime, and junior midfielder casey pearsall and senior attack kiera mcmullan had five- and four-point games respective­ly, showing the firepower of an offensive unit that’s now in its third season together. 
“they’re vets. there’s so much experience out there right now,” halfpenny said. “ … they really have a good handle on the structure that they’re in, yet bringing in their own individual cre­ativity to the game.” 
halfpenny said she was pleased with the way notre dame moved the ball around saturday; the irish logged assists on 15 of their 18 goals. 
“we couldn’t have been more excited about the pace of the ball, the speed at which it was moving, how many hands it was going through,” halfpenny said. “obviously, we don’t care how it gets in the back of the net, but when you see 15 helpers on 18 shots, that definitely shows that we’re using our high-powered, motion-style offense with seven different weapons out 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | the observer 


M Bball 
continued From page 16 
notre notre dame finally grabbed its first double-digit lead of the contest when a layup by senior forward Zach auguste with 5:11 to play gave notre dame some breathing room with a 69-58 lead. while clemson pulled within five during the final seconds, the irish did enough at the free-throw stripe down the stretch as part of a 21-of-25 performance from the line to secure the victory. 
“we call it ‘winning time,’ that’s what our players call it, the last 10 minutes of the game, we just try to make plays to win us the game, and we did that tonight,” beachem said. 
despite getting into foul trouble early with two fouls, auguste had a team-high 19 points and eight rebounds in monday’s game and brey praised his senior captain’s play. 
“he is playing so well, and he’s 
paid advertisement 

playing at the right time, play­ing great at the right time,” brey said. “what i loved about him [monday] is he gets in foul trouble. it was never a distraction though. he knew he was gonna play the whole second half, he did, and he was a warrior for us. some of the physical plays he made around the bucket i think broke clemson’s spirit a little bit.” 
“i wanted to come out aggres­sive [in the second half] and help the team any way possible, be that on the glass or defensive,” auguste said. 
while auguste led notre dame on the stat sheet, monday’s game was another one where each of the five starters hit double figures; Jackson scored 17 while beachem finished with 15 on a 4-for-7 per­formance from deep. sophomore forward bonzie colson dropped 11 and junior guard steve vasturia went for 10. 
the story on the stat line, how­ever, was clemson redshirt junior forward Jaron blossomgame, who became the first tiger to score 30 points in two years when he hit the mark on a 13-for-19 performance from the field. the irish, however, shut down the tigers in the post, limiting their bigs to low outputs. 
“i think we did a great job with our rotations.” auguste said. “i think we did a great job limiting the second-chance opportunities and making it hard for them to post up and play in the interior.” 
like he did in saturday night’s win over the tar heels, brey trust­ed freshman guard rex pflueger down the stretch, who stayed on the court with notre dame’s quar­tet of upperclassman starters to see out the road victory. 
notre dame’s win marked the first time in the acc slate the tigers suffered a home loss and solidified the irish as a contender for a double-bye to the quarter­finals in the conference tourna­ment in march; the top four teams receive the privilege of starting tournament play on the third day. while brey’s team sits alone in fifth place, no. 13 louisville’s self-imposed tournament ban means the irish are in the driver’s seat. 
“it’s a huge goal for us,” beachem said of finishing in a top-four slot. “it’s something we’ve talked about as players, but we’ve just got to take it one game at a time.” 
the cardinals (19-5, 8-3), off a 72-65 road loss at duke on monday, come to purcell pavilion with brey knowing the irish of­fense will have to put in another strong shift to run their win streak to three. 
“we’re gonna have to play against a great defense,” brey said. “they’re gonna press us and then they go back to zone. it’s a great test for our ball-handling, taking care of the ball and our offensive efficiency against a great defen­sive team.” 
tipoff with louisville is slat­ed for 4 p.m. saturday as notre dame will look to snag a third successive victory to end a chal­lenging four-game stretch that had the potential to make or break their season. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 

the observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 89 , clemson 83 
Irish keep momentum in road win 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
after saturday’s win over no. 9 north carolina, irish head coach mike brey pondered whether or not this notre dame squad was capable of hitting 10 3-pointers in a game like some of his previous teams had been able to. 
he got an immediate response from his team monday night in greenville, south carolina, as the irish rode a 10-for-22 performance from deep to top clemson, 89-83. 
“For us to win the way we did and exert the energy we did against north carolina on saturday and turn around and grind this one out, i’m extremely proud of our group,” brey said. “i think we’ve grown so much in the area of toughness and edge in the last 48 hours.” 
if notre dame (17-7, 8-4 acc) was trying to prove its coach wrong monday, it started on the right foot as junior forward v.J. beachem got things off to a quick start, knocking down a pair of 3-pointers on notre dame’s first two field-goal attempts to give the irish an early 6-0 lead. Junior guard demetrius Jackson hit a 3-pointer of his own a couple minutes later to give the irish an 11-2 start — and a lead they would never surrender. 
clemson (14-10, 7-5), however, responded with a 10-2 run of its own to bring the game within one at 13-12, but the home team was unable to take the lead as Jackson’s layup staved off the threat of the tigers taking the lead. 
when freshman forward matt ryan broke his shooting slump with the first of two 3-pointers to put notre dame up 18-14, it meant the irish had already surpassed their 3-point total from saturday on just seven attempts. 
For the majority of the night, the game followed a consistent trend 
— the irish would repeatedly pull out to a three-possession lead but could not push it to double digits before the tigers pulled within a basket, never taking the lead in the game. 
after having a handful of shots to do it throughout the night, 
see m bball PAGE 15 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 18, Jacksonville 5 
ND starts season with win over Jacksonville 

By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
no. 7 notre dame got its season off on the right foot in the way one would ex­pect it to, with its strong corps of upperclassmen leading the squad to an 18­5, season-opening victory at Jacksonville on saturday. 
From the start saturday, things went according to plan for the irish (1-0), as 
junior  attack/midfielder  
cortney  Fortunato,  notre  
dame’s  leading  scorer  in  

each of her first two seasons, put the visitors on the board fewer than four minutes into the game. 
it set the tone for a domi­nant irish victory over a dolphins (0-1) squad that posted a 17-3 record last year and qualified for the ncaa tournament for the third consecutive season as the atlantic sun champion. irish head coach christine halfpenny said the irish saw some different things out of the home team in Jacksonville. 
“it was awesome to get out there and to obviously play someone else other than ourselves, someone that was throwing things at us that — it’s not your usual look, they threw a zone at us,” halfpenny said. “it was a different zone than we’ve seen before, a little high-pressure right out of the gate, and they were scrappy; they challenged everything, physical.” 
as the first half neared its midway point, the score was tight — notre dame led just 3-2 with 16 minutes left in the half — but the irish soon turned on the jets, scor­ing nine straight goals to lead 12-2 at halftime before starting the second stanza with another pair of goals, a run halfpenny attributed to the way the irish prepare for games. 
“as soon as we got com­fortable and got those first-game jitters out, we prepare each other so well top to bot­tom that we were prepared to play against that pressure because that’s how we com­pete every day in practice,” halfpenny said. 
Fortunato started the run by tallying her third goal of the afternoon and would notch another goal and four assists in the 11-0 streak, opening the season with an eight-point performance in a game where she recorded 
see w laX PAGE 14 



