The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 105 | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Junior Theresa Sagartz dies 
Notre Dame student died in her off-campus residence during spring break 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online March 10. 
Junior Theresa sagartz, a former pangborn hall resi­dent, died in her off-campus residence where she was found wednesday afternoon, according to a university press release. 
st. Joseph county deputy coroner chuck hurley said sagartz had a medical condi­tion and likely died from nat­ural causes. 

an autopsy was completed Thursday, hurley said, but the official cause of death has not CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 
Students gather outside the Grotto on Sunday night and listen to a reading by sophomore Troy Prince. see sagarTZ PAGE 4 The prayer service, led by Zahm House rector Gary Chamberland, remembered Theresa Sagartz. 





laetare medal honorees named 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online March 5. 
vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the 
house  John  boehner  will  
jointly  receive  the  laetare  
medal  at  notre  dame’s  

2016 commencement, the university announced in a 
see medal PAGE 4 


house bill 1022 moves forward 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online March 2. 
a bill to change state law sur­rounding the extent to which private university police depart­ments are required to make their records available to the public is headed to the governor’s office, according to the indiana general assembly’s website. 
house bill 1022, sponsored by state rep. patrick bauer (d-south bend), would require private col­leges and universities to release information about incidents that result in arrests or incarcerations to the public. 
The house first approved the bill by a unanimous vote in January. after an amendment was added, the bill passed in senate by a 49-to-1 vote on march 1. Two days later, the house voted 93-0 to affirm the bill. 
The bill will now go to the desk of indiana gov. mike pence. if he signs the bill, it will become a law. 
The amendment changed the bill to give individuals employed by educational institutions as police officers the same statu­tory immunities granted to a state police officer. it also gives private educational institutions the same statutory immunity granted to the state. 
bauer said in a previous in­terview with The observer the purpose of the bill is to require university police departments to be more transparent with their public records. 
critics of the bill say it does not require enough transparency from private universities because only a small portion of campus in­cidents result in arrests. 
if passed, the bill would apply to notre dame security police (ndsp), the university’s private police force. 
in January 2015, espn filed a lawsuit against the university after ndsp refused to grant an espn reporter access to campus police records related to student-athletes. The case, ruled in notre dame’s favor by the st. Joseph superior court, was appealed by espn. attorneys from both parties presented their oral arguments in the indiana court of appeals and expect a ruling to be issued soon. 
bauer, a notre dame alumnus, said the bill is not a direct result of the espn lawsuit. rather, he said the bill stems from concerns raised by indiana citizens, includ­ing many notre dame graduates. 


WSJ editor gives global perspective on election 

By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 

while the polarizing rheto­ric of the 2016 presidential elec­tion is seen as unique to certain american candidates, gerard baker, editor-in-chief of the wall street Journal, said this rhetoric is not limited to america but rather mirrors a growing international rhetoric of extremist views. baker spoke on the similarities between current american and european views in a lecture monday night titled “2016 presidential election: a global perspective.” 
The lecture, which was held through the eugene clark distinguished lecture series and the mendoza college of business, was held in mendoza’s Jordan auditorium. 
baker said he has covered more than six presidential elections in his career and noted this year’s is different. 
“i cannot recall a more ex­traordinary election then the one we are having now,” he said. “however, it’s not just hap­pening here — we are seeing extraordinary events elsewhere in the world, and they have remark­able things in common.” 
parties espousing extreme views are gaining popularity in established western democra­cies, primarily because of eco­nomic dissatisfaction, baker said. in recent elections in germany, the far-right party alternative für deutschland, which was created only three years ago, secured 25 percent of the vote in some states, baker said. 
see elecTion PAGE 4 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Kayla mullen christina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto                        Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-5452 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zkolnsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
When you hear the phrase “strong woman,” what three traits do you think of? 


Allison Dianis 
senior 
lyons hall 
“confident, self-reliant and passionate.” 
Anna Poltrack 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“assertive, knowledgable and patient.” 
Sam Mannion 
senior 
lewis hall 
“independent, bold and free­thinker.” 
James Bowyer 
senior 
siegfried hall 
“mom, independent and driven.” 
Bryce deVenecia 
senior 
off campus 
“athena, acropolis and awesome.” 
Amanda Harbrecht 
junior 
lewis hall 
“confident, compassionate and condoleeza rice.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
catherine owers hunter mcdaniel 
andrea vale maureen schweninger Jenna wilson r.J. stempak 
Graphics Scene Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Guided Mindfulness Meditation and Pasquerilla East Men’s Tennis vs. Hawaii Club’s Lu’au 
caitlyn Jordan austin Taliaferro 
Meditation Journalling Paddy Parade Duke Stepan Center Snite Museum of Art LaFortune campus-wide Eck Tennis Pavilion 5 p.m.- 8 p.m. 4 p.m.- 4:45 p.m. 7:30 p.m.- 8:30 p.m. 4:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. Hawaiian food, hula 
Corrections 

No prior meditation The first part of a three Featuring ND bagpipes The Irish take on the dancing and a lei-
The observer regards itself as experience is needed. part micro-retreat. and campus clubs. Blue Devils. making station. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
 “Presenting and Memorial Mass Irish and English LGBT Retreat Men’s Lacrosse vs. 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Publishing Basics” Basilica of the Sacred Bilingual Mass all day Virginia 
however, recognize that we will make 
Brownson Hall Heart  Basilica of the Sacred Sacred Heart Parish Arlotta Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.- 5 p.m. 9 p.m.- 10 p.m. Heart Center 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Workshop for In rememberence of 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. PrismND’s 24-hour The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

organizing research. junior Thersa Sagartz. Celebrate St. Patrick. retreat. Cavaliers. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | The observer 

Acclaimed author speaks at Saint Mary’s 
By MARTHA REILLY 
associate saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online March 6. 
Though she was just a young girl at the time, chimamanda ngozi adichie remembers her home eco­nomics teacher asking her “how could you not like needlework? aren’t you a girl?” such experi­ences with sexism only motivate the distinguished author to resist injustice and express her world­views through writing, she said in a lecture at saint mary’s on Thursday night. 
college president carol ann money said adichie serves as an example for students through her ability to inspire her readers and convey a message of hope. 
“her work echoes our mission to empower women and help them develop the compassion and em­pathy needed to make a difference in the world,” mooney said. 
adichie said she composed her first book at age ten in her child­hood home in nigeria, a place that still serves as a central part of her creativity. 
“before [my family] moved into number 305 margaret cartwright avenue, chinua achebe and his family lived there,” adichie said. 
“i realize now what an interesting coincidence it is that i grew up in a house previously occupied by the writer whose work is most impor­tant to me. There must have been literary spirits in the bathroom upstairs … i often got story ideas after taking bucket baths in the bathroom upstairs.” 
adichie said she grew up sur­rounded by the effects a war that ensued from the establishment of biafra, a short-lived country com­prised of nigerians who attempt­ed to secede. 
“i knew vaguely about the war as a child, that my grandfathers had died, that my parents lost ev­erything they owned,” adichie said. “i was aware of how this war haunted my family, how it colored the paths our lives had taken.” 
her mother suffered the har­rowing implications of this con­flict, she said. 
“[my mother] spoke about mak­ing toast and scrambled eggs for her two little daughters before the war to standing in line and fighting for dried egg yolk at the catholic relief center,” adichie said. “if anything, learning about the war left me with a great re­spect for a generation who had the courage to believe so fervently in something.” 
Knowledge of the war and endurance of its permanent con­sequences inspired adichie to write a novel, “half of a yellow sun.” 
“i was aware that the book, would in the end, share my world­view,” adichie said. “it would be a book that was concerned with the ordinary person.” 
adichie said the response to this novel shocked her, for many people embraced its message and related it to their personal experiences. 
“at my readings, particularly in nigeria, women would start to cry and to say thank you for telling the story and for finally making it possible to tell their families what they had gone through,” adichie said. “men would get choked up talking about how they had been conscripted as boys. young peo­ple born after the war would get emotional talking about how they finally understood their parents, who had experienced and been affected by the war.” 
some readers who had not even lived in nigeria at the time of the war still praised adichie for her ability to transform their hearts, she said. 
“an american woman told me, and i will never forget this, that ‘half of a yellow sun’ was the rea­son she decided to start to identify 
paid adverTisemenT 
herself as a pacifist,” adichie said. 
according to adichie, her femi­nist ideals serve as an important component of her writing, for she was taught to embrace male at­tention and to aim to marry a rich nigerian man. 
“To be feminist is to actively unlearn many of the things i was taught,” adichie said. “i wanted to dream for myself.” 
she said she witnessed women forsaking their ambitions, which contributed to her quest for gender equality. 
“i knew of so many women around me who had given up what they wanted to do or what they wanted to be because of hus­bands or children, and it made me wonder ‘what if fewer women had suspended their dreams? what would the world be like?’ adichie said. “For me, to be feminist is not merely to criticize, but to suggest alternatives.” 
when adichie moved from nigeria to the united states at age 19, she noticed that us women receive much more judgment on their appearances. 
“There is no part of the world today where men and women are totally equal, and that is a grave shame,” adichie said. 
she said she remembers en­countering a young woman who attributed her feminism to adichi after identifying with adichie’s lines in “Flawless” by beyoncé. 
“i asked her what it meant to be feminist, and she said that every day she would wake up and say to herself ‘i woke up like this,’” adichie said. “hearing her say that made me really start to think seri­ously about what it means to be feminist for young women today. what does it mean to say ‘i woke up like this, flawless?’ i like to think that it doesn’t actually mean that you’re without flaws, because god forbid that a human being would be perfect. 
“To be without flaws would be inhuman. i like to think that for feminists, flawless means that you accept yourself the way you are, that flawless, in the feminist sense, really means a radical self-accep­tance and the firm knowledge that beauty never means one thing.” 
adichie said she is grateful for the opportunity to express her beliefs, such as her feminist prin­ciples, through writing. 
“i write because i cannot imag­ine my life without the ability to write or to imagine or to dream,” adichie said. “i write because i have to.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Election 
conTinued From page 1 
baker said the wall street Journal’s polls have demonstrated american dissatisfaction with the direction of the country. 
“other than during the first three months of president obama’s administration, for the last 10 years, americans have continually reported that they feel the country is on the wrong track,” baker said. 
The stagnation of middle class income has contributed to the sense of dissatisfaction, baker said. 
“The u.s. has been the most suc­cessful economic machine in the history the world. it has been par­ticularly successful in growing the middle class,” baker said. “what we’ve seen in the last 25 years is that the progress has actually stopped.” 
while the united states is unique in when dealing with mid-dle-class income stagnation, baker said, economic dissatisfaction is also seen in europe’s high unem­ployment rate. 
“in the last 25 years we have seen trade agreements, we have seen [an] opening up and increase of the global economy, we saw the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 and the emergence of china as a major player at the end of the 1980s and the beginning of the 1990s,” he said. “This unleashed huge amounts of resources into the world economy, that had not been available before. a combina­tion of free trade agreements and the emergence of these economies into the global system created an extraordinary amount of supply that drove down the price of labor..” 
economic dissatisfaction has created “an overwhelming desire” to recover national identity, baker said. 
“combined with the sense of po­litical correctness that you see in washington and brussels, there is pervasive political correctness that has alienated numerous people around the world,” he said. 
baker said whichever candidate wins in the presidential election will have a hard time passing in­ternational trade agreements, even if the agreement is beneficial for the global economy. he said both democrats and republicans will not push for global trade initiatives and instead opt to support more protectionist measures, as many believe the opening of the global economy has contributed to the stagnation of the middle class. 
“i don’t want to give the impres­sion that we are retreating into the 1920s, 1930s [economy] because people are too dependent on each other, globally,” he said. “but i do think we are headed into a period where we can see a much greater assertion of national rights.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
Sagartz 
conTinued From page 1 

yet been determined. sagartz likely died late monday or early Tuesday, he said. 
sagartz was a student in the college of science and a native of albuquerque, n.m. she was a third generation member of the notre dame community, according to the 
Medal 
conTinued From page 1 
press release saturday. 

The laetare medal is awarded each year to american catholics “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the church and enriched the heritage of hu­
manity,”  according  to  the  
press release.  
university  president  Fr.  

John Jenkins commended both men for their dedica­tion to the nation and for their civility. 
“while both have been loy­al and committed partisans, they were leaders who put the good of the nation ahead of partisan victory, seeking through respectful dialogue honorable compromise and center (ucc) and campus ministry resources are avail­able to all members of the notre dame community. 
“we realize that many of you may have been impact­ed by Theresa’s death,” the email stated. “The university counseling center and campus ministry are both available to offer their sup­port to you and other mem­bers of our community.” 
release. 
“as a community, we grieve for Theresa and ex­tend our deepest condolences to her family and friends,” university president Fr. John Jenkins said in the release. “my prayers are with them.” 
in an email sent to stu­dents wednesday night, vice president of student affairs erin hoffmann harding said the university counseling 
progress,”  Jenkins  said  in  
the  press  release.  “speaker  
boehner’s  resistance  to  a  

simple reductionism made him suspect in his own par­ty; vice president biden re­minded his fellow democrats that those in the other party are ‘our opponents, not our enemies.’” 
according to the press re­lease, vice president biden has served two terms in the obama administration, and oversaw the $840 bil­lion stimulus package in the american recovery and reinvestment act and leads the ready to work initiative. 
elected to the u.s. house of representatives in 1990, former speaker boehner served as chairman of the house education and workforce committee where he authored several reforms, including the pension protection act and a school choice voucher program for low-income children in washington, d.c., according to the press release. 
“in recognizing both men, notre dame is not endors­ing the policy positions of either, but celebrating two lives dedicated to keeping our democratic institutions working for the common good through dialogue fo­cused on the issues and re­sponsible compromise,” Jenkins said in the release. 
boehner and biden join the ranks of past laetare medal recipients president John 
F. Kennedy, dorothy day, walker percy, martin sheen and many others. 
The university’s 171st commencement will be held may 15. 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




INSIDE COLUMN 

a dr. seuss spring break 
Kathryn Marshall 
news writer 

my spring break was not spent under a beating beach sun, nor was it spent coast­ing down a colorado ski run. i spent my break watching two cousins of mine, two little girls ages seven and nine. in the house, a golden retriever aged only two and on the table a pile of papers telling what to (and not to) do. early mornings spent waving goodbye to the bus after packing lunches where purple lemon­ade is an absolute must. Then it’s walk the dog, do the dishes, straighten couch cushions with care, grab a broom to bat­tle tumble weeds of puppy dog hair. 
“how did she do it?” i ponder aloud. Four kids, a dog, a cat, even turtles were allowed. my mom did this for much more than a week, and continues to do so … what an incredible feat. This is how she creates a home where love comes to life, just as here the girls will return to escape college strife. Through her example i watch the two girls grow day by day, full of dreams and the courage to confidently say, “i’ll be the athlete with records to beat, i’ll be a journalist researching lions in the african heat!” 
They rush in the door in an uncoordi­nated mess, eager to share which part of the day was the best. while doing homework assignments with fractions and telling time, reading dr. seuss books full of confusing slant rhyme, each time Jess read aloud about sneetches and stars, and as em prepared for all those swim practices of hers, my college bubble popped in the land of mac and cheese, a land where the magic word is an often-forgotten “please?” 
The girls were so curious about the world and about me, both often asking “what will you be?” They were so curi­ous about my college life fables and they loved chattering about unicorns while eating lucky charms at the table. over break, my inspiration came not from pinterest nor the bible, but rather, from the simple curiosity reflected by an un­bounded smile. 
recall that one book about the civil war nurse, or perhaps you were en­chanted by potter’s “expelliarmus” curse. either way, something was the foundation for your dreams, no matter how crazy or odd that reminder may seem. you once looked to the future without fear, with­out doubt. you wanted to know what this world was all about. it may seem hard to accept and believe as we turn to face grown-up world reality, but you know what? we’re here, making those ‘when i grow up’ essays come true. and just re­member, not matter what you do, those childhood dreams will forever be a part of you. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at  kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katherine Smart 
real Talk 

currently, children between the ages of zero and six years old receive an average of 28 doses of ten different vaccines. although there is no federal mandate requir­ing these vaccinations, all 50 states have some sort of requirement for public schools. This has sparked debates over the legality of these mandatory vaccina­tions, especially pertaining to preschools and elemen­tary education. while parents are entitled to make medical decisions for their children, public schools should continue to mandate vaccinations in order to protect the welfare of their communities. 
The first concern many parents bring up regarding mandatory vaccinations is the side effects. since many of these vaccinations are given at a young age, parents are often concerned that the negative side effects could have a lasting impact on their child’s development. in 1998, andrew wakefield published a study that claimed there was a link between measles-mumps­rubella (mmr) vaccinations and autism in children. in 2005, robert F. Kennedy Jr. wrote an article for rolling stone claiming that thimerosal caused “speech delays, attention-deficit disorder, hyperactivity and autism” in young children. however both of these claims have been discredited numerous times. in fact, the british Journal of medicine reported that wakefield had re­ceived over $650,000 in bribe money from multiple law firms to fake test results. while Kennedy’s thimerosal study was also disproved by the american academy of pediatrics and the u.s. public health service, thi­merosal is currently not administrated in vaccinations for children younger than six as a precaution. because multiple scientific studies have proven that vaccines are not linked to these lasting side effects, parents cannot use this argument as a reason to not vaccinate their children. however, there is a direct correlation between children who are not vaccinated and children who contract diseases such as pertussis and/or the chickenpox. Therefore, schools should mandate vacci­nations based on the most recent studies preformed by the medical community. 
another reason some people are not in favor of man­dated vaccinations is because they don’t think that government should be interfering with their medical decisions. whether it is from an extreme libertarian or a religious rights perspective, some people believe that it’s not the job of the government to dictate whether a child is vaccinated or not. while the government’s reach is a valid political and philosophical issue, it is not a valid argument against mandated vaccinations. because the government is funding the public school system, legally they can require participants to have certain vaccinations before attending. if certain beliefs cause parents to feel strongly that they do not want to vaccinate their children, they always have the option of homeschooling them. since there are no federal laws requiring vaccinations, there is no legal force requiring parents to disregard their beliefs or ideals and vacci­nate their kids. however, they will have to accept that they will be limiting their education options. because the legal systems still allows parents to make this choice, the public schooling system should continue to require vaccines in order to protect the wellbeing of the students the school is responsible for. 
one of the emerging arguments against mandated childhood vaccinations is that the pharmaceuti­cal companies, Fda and cdc should not be trusted to regulate vaccines. looking back at the Turing pharmaceuticals scandal where the ceo increased the price of a lifesaving drug by 5,000 percent, cor­ruption within the industry is clearly a valid concern. however, the vaccines currently required for all public schools are not new drugs. dTap, ivp, mmr, varicella and hepatitis b have all been extensively studied and have persisted to survive media controversies and political questionings. For a drug to be required at every public school throughout the united states, the scrutiny it would undergo by both the scientific and political communities would prevent any one corrupt organization from providing harmful vaccinations. For example, even the annual flu shot is still optional in ev­ery state except connecticut. Therefore, these current vaccinations should stay mandated due to the years of analysis that support their authenticity. 
clearly, public schools should mandate vaccinations in order to prevent harmful diseases from spreading throughout the school’s population and into the great­er community. although vaccinations should still be mandated, researching any vaccination before receiv­ing it as well as understanding your family’s medical history is important. hopefully by promoting vaccine use, people lucky enough to have access to these vac­cines can work with other nations to help the children in their communities also have access to this great medical achievement. 
For more information on the arguments surrounding mandated vaccinations, please visit vaccines.procon.org. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the Naval ROTC program and a current resident of Badin Hall. She is a political science and pre-health major. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Returning to Cincinnati 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

most professionals don’t get a spring break. i was reminded of this reality as i walked notre dame’s quiet campus after students left for service trips, sunny beaches and everything in between just over a week ago. 
but, the quiet of campus was the catalyst i need­ed to take some intentional time to slow down. so, i took an opportunity at the end of break to return to my hometown of cincinnati. 
over the course of my life, well-meaning people have asked me if i would eventually settle down in cincinnati. and for a long time, i was a little bit shocked by that question. why would i return to a place that i knew so well? returning to cincinnati seemed like the safe choice, a choice that i strongly rejected as i gazed out on a world that brimmed with possibility. 
college and post-grad life seemed to offer me more exciting opportunities. and the more i learned and experienced, the more my excitement grew for those opportunities, right alongside a growing sense of boredom and disdain for home. 
in my eyes, i had accomplished everything that i needed to accomplish there. memories of times when i was most fully alive in my childhood — time spent with family, life-giving philosophical conversations, theater with my best friends — faded quickly. i had little interest in looking in the rearview mirror — the best, i believed, was yet to come. 
yet, just this past sunday, some different thoughts entered my mind about home and my life as i listened to the sunday gospel. 
The passage was a familiar one — the one about the woman caught in the sin of adultery. i initially felt myself begin to tune out as i recognized the words from the oft-quoted line: “let the one among you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her” (Jn 8:7). 
in that moment, i didn’t feel a need to return and reflect on these words that i knew so well. so, not surprisingly, my mind shifted toward other things 
— the beginning of the workweek and the events that would shape its calendar. 
yet, all of a sudden, my mind slipped back to at­tention. it was just as much a sudden realization as it was a culmination of realizations that, i believe, had been slowly in the making. 
my time at home flashed before my eyes. i thought back to the delight i felt the previous Thursday morning as i gathered to share stories with an old teacher friend. i thought back to the laughter shared saturday afternoon with some of my best friends and their spouses as we regaled each other with tales from high school. 
and there in our pew in church i observed my family: my mom, dad and brother, three people whose stories had so profoundly shaped and influ­enced my life. 
why had i so frequently looked past the beauty of these experiences? it was then that the full force of realization hit me. in these short days, i had shared stories and time with people that i knew well. in giving myself fully, i was able to focus not on an imagined future, but the truth and beauty of the familiar in my present. This time, i finally saw that the meaning that i spent so much time looking for had already been given to me. 
i don’t think it’s any coincidence that these re­alizations came in the midst of a celebration of the eucharist. how many times do we feel bored at mass or in our own lives? might our own minds start to wander a little in the midst of the familiar­ity of scriptures and prayers or in the most of our daily routines? how often do we focus our energies too much on what might come to the exclusion of what is? 
it is always easier for me to keep searching for meaning in new places than to spend time in plac­es i already know. in the safety of my thought and imagination, i don’t have to give myself as com­pletely. There, i can remain at a distance, safely encountering reality on my terms. 
yet, the reality of god’s invitation to us is the robust belief in the possibilities that lie in the fa­miliar, in the places and people we already know. in god’s eyes, every moment is an opportunity and invitation into glory, an invitation to see that god might already be giving us those things we most long for. 
what might god already be doing now in our lives? asking and investigating this question might be the very thing that allows us to take another look at the church, our homes and our most inti­mate relationships. perhaps those things we most long for have already being given to us, if we’re honest with ourselves to look. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

in defense of the establishment 
almost verbatim at any rally, interview, town hall discussion or any speech of any form given, senator bernie sanders exasperatedly cries out that the american people have lost faith in gov­ernment because of a system that favors the rich, an economy that forgets about the regular working class american and establishment poli­ticians that only pay attention to wall street. subsequently, as a result of these polemic state­ments, the increasingly hackneyed diatribes by senator sanders erupt in applause by crowds that are basing their indignation on the sense that they are being forgotten by the government. 
This growing hatred and distrust for the govern­ment is a dangerous path that the general public has decided to enter — and in both political par­ties, as seen with the popularity of anti-establish­ment candidates such as Trump in the republican party — because this “political revolution” that senator sanders is calling for is stemmed in a false understanding of the role of government, which as a result can be extremely harmful to the structure that maintains society as we see it today. 
in fact, our system of government was designed to favor the people over the threat and interests of the oligarchs and monarchs of imperial england. The reason the system seems so rigged is not because it is inherent in its design, but because we’ve let it get that way. when only 38.5 percent of all the voting-eligible population in the united states voted in the past election, it means we are actively letting roughly 40 percent of the popula­tion decide what the other 60 percent want. 
civic disinterest is what is causing the economy and the entire system to be slanted towards the rich and wealthy, because they are the ones who are the most consistent in voting and voicing support. money may be able to buy companies and formal interest groups time with members of congress, but money will never be able to transact votes from one individual to an interest group. 
now, i am not naïve enough to believe that it is easy for everyone to vote, when there are laws that are always being passed to make it harder for peo­ple to vote, many of which are masked by the pre­text of having less fraudulent elections (as if that is currently a huge problem). i do think some laws are designed to make it harder for people to vote, and we need to find ways for those americans who may be alienated by language barriers, eco­nomic barriers or other impediments that are legitimately keeping them from being involved in the civic process. what i do not take as legitimate excuses are the ideas that government is boring, irrelevant, does not matter attitude or other simi­lar responses that justify general disinterest and nonparticipation in voting and civic participation. 
one of the tactics that lobbying groups use to force politicians to vote one way or another is as­suring them that they will contact the people in their congressional districts and tell them how their opposition or inaction for a bill that a lobby­ist supports and convince them to not vote for the politician again. 
most bills involving money or regulation im­pact somebody negatively, and finding that small amount of people in districts of 700,000 constitu­ents (where perhaps only a few thousand vote each election) and spinning distaste for a bill is not too hard. This is a politician’s worst nightmare 
— grassroots opposition. perhaps this would not be a problem if more people voted, but since that is not the case, the opposition of a few people is enough for a politician to guarantee a lobbyist their support for a bill that may benefit corpora­tions more than it does the people. 
it is not money that is truly destroying our po­litical system; it is a lack of participation in the political process. grassroots support and opposi­tion is perhaps the most efficient force that drives a politicians decision-making. 
successful lobbying groups take advantage of the public’s general disinterest and engage­ment by targeting key groups in districts in order to scare a politician into voting one way or an­other. with voter turnout being dismal in most areas of the country, politicians can be swayed by the smallest threat at reelection they receive. Therefore, it is unfair to say that the interest group system in the united states is rigged in fa­vor of the rich, because the power lies within the people. The unfortunate part, however, is that the people seem to care little about this power they hold. 
The reason the political process has become so expensive is because people increasingly make themselves less accessible to politicians, who ul­timately still need one’s vote to keep their jobs, so they beg for more money to pay for ads and mail­ers and canvassers, and outreach efforts for the purpose of reaching someone and sharing their message for america. 
ultimately, i do not think senator sanders is wrong in saying that the economy favors the rich, but i do think it is wrong for the indignant of the current awakening to claim that it is the fault of the establishment for letting it get this way and radically calling for a revolution that will harm our government more than it will help. if you want the economy to be more in favor for you, then do the revolutionary act of registering to vote and ac­tually doing it, and don’t let 40 percent of the vot­ing population dictate what is best for the other 60 percent. 
Cesar Hernandez 
junior 


By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

if “Zootopia” — the latest movie from walt disney animation studios — has a major flaw, it is the delivery of its mes­sage. like brad bird’s “The incredibles,” a film that was more overtly objectivist than some ayn rand works, “Zootopia” wears its heart on its sleeve. 
but just because the message is ham­mered home doesn’t mean it is simplis­tic. nay, “Zootopia,” rather than play like an overwrought parable about the importance of diversity, presents a more nuanced take. 
meet Judy hopps, the dreamer. she’s a small town rabbit, born and raised on a carrot farm. Through an extremely over-the-top elementary school stage production that preaches “anyone can be anything,” the audience learns that Judy dreams of being a police officer in the bustling metropolis Zootopia. Judy’s ambition — noble as it is — is met with scrutiny rather than praise. “you’re just a dumb bunny!” “There’s never been a bunny cop!” slurs and stereotypes abound, and connections with our re­ality are even more clearly defined when Judy mentions, “a bunny can call 
By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
scene writer 

we can play favorites all the live-long day, sure, but the more you implore me to agree with you that chicago and detroit were the cradles of modern house music, the more strongly i’ll retort that the fact that we’re in indiana doesn’t mean that you can put on your blinders and pretend that the midwest is the cradle of mod­ern electronic music. in fact, the under­ground scenes of chicago and detroit, led by luminaries like Frankie Knuckles, cybotron et al., were massively influen­tial in shaping the sound of electronic dance music today, but if you don’t think that the british scene had much to do with it, then i don’t think we have much to do with each other. because nobody disses london’s The orb on my watch. 
The orb shaped ambient house as you know it, period. of course, i don’t mean to erase the influence of the Japanese scene’s ryuichi sakamoto or haruomi hosono — though i admit to not being their most outspoken fan — nor even the influences of fellow englishman brian eno or the products of american mini­malism, both of which, au contraire, i another bunny cute, but when another animal does it …” she doesn’t finish the sentence, and she doesn’t have to: the point is clear. 
among the haters are Judy’s own par­ents. “if you never try anything new, you’ll never fail,” says her father as he begs her to adopt the simple life of a car­rot farmer. Judy’s parents believe in the power of limitations — in this case, a bunny’s mental capacity, size and place on the food chain — and truly fear for their daughter’s safety in a big city pop­ulated with predators. They are so re­pressed by their socially-constructed lot in life that they no longer embrace the fundamental truths and beauties of their identity as bunnies, visually exempli­fied by Judy energetically hopping while her parents simply walk. if Judy is a mod­el for children to strive for, her parents and their misplaced affections are an only modestly exaggerated reflection of a reality that adults can relate to. but this being a children’s movie, Judy hops on. 
and hop she does, to Zootopia, through the police academy then to the stage as valedictorian of her graduating class of police cadets. she protests being assigned to parking duty — as a “me­ter maid,” this time the epithet is sexist 
talk far too much about. what i do mean to say is that in the early ‘90s, it was The orb that singularly consolidated these sounds into the scene-defining aesthet­ic that is an interesting juxtaposition of spacey yet earthly, alien yet simultane­ously human. This aesthetic stretches its ethereal fingers into much of both ambi­ent and house music today. 
but the ‘90s came and went, and so did the numerous follow-ups and nov­elty album titles. and though their in­fluence was a watermark over many of the decade’s most groundbreaking electronic records — aphex Twin and boards of canada, in particular, deserve mention here — so too did the duo it­self seem to vanish from the collective consciousness. 
certainly, the duo has been around this whole time, but after a series of generally uninspired records over a decade and change, it’s no mystery that they’ve lost their buzzword sta­tus. in fact, it is along this slow decline into obscurity that their latest release, the vinyl “alpine,” has gone virtually unnoticed. 
but in spite of its short length “alpine” is not to be missed. even in its brevity — but is powerless to defy, unable to be­come a “real cop.” on the parking ticket beat she meets nick, a sly fox. 
well, that kind of stereotyping is exact­ly the kind of thing “Zootopia” is out to undermine. nonetheless, nick is sly, and his and Judy’s paths cross while he is in the middle of an elaborate profit-churn­ing popsicle “hustle.” 
as a predator, nick is in the minority — most of Zootopia’s inhabitants are “cute,” “helpless” prey as opposed to predators, who pose a threat to the majority in their potential to “turn savage.” of course, only a few of Zootopia’s predators have ever turned savage, and there is no evi­dence to suggest prey are incapable of turning savage as well; but that doesn’t stop the masses of prey from labeling all predators — all “others,” as they’re re­ferred to — as a threat, something to be feared. where “Zootopia” excels is the ex­tent to which it explores both sides of this predator/prey tension. can you really condemn Judy, a survivor of a childhood fox attack, for carrying fox repellant? on the other hand, we learn that nick wasn’t always so sly; rather, his craftiness is merely a defense mechanism born from childhood trauma. “if the world is going to see a fox as shifty and untrustworthy,” 
this release feels perfectly well self-con­tained. indeed the glassy, grassy ambi­ance of the three tracks builds upon itself throughout each track so well, with sonic motifs punching in and out and back again, that these three movements feel like just that: indivisible elements of a continuous whole. 
The record begins with “alpine morning,” something of an electronic jam session that flits between house beats that sparkle like spring water, waves of earthy downtempo, and what sound like clips of yodeling mixed ad absurdum. it’s a calm wake-up call for the clubbier “alpine evening,” a more traditional house track yet one that never shirks the duo’s stylistic eccen­tricities; ever the kings of vivid aural atmospheres, this track marches along like the hike up a mountain inside switzerland’s hottest nightclub. The fi­nal track, “alpine dawn,” would seem in­appropriately placed at the record’s end, but its more spacey, uplifting ambiance wraps up the piece like the pleasant res­olution to a long night, the mountain’s cusp reached, the journey ended. 
but has the journey really ended? it certainly doesn’t come across as though he explains, “there’s no point in trying to be anything else.” again, for the sake of the children in the audience, “Zootopia” does not dare end on such a dour note; but adults in the room will understand nick’s words are not theatrics, but sin­cere frustration. 
“Zootopia,” four years in the making, turned out to be even timelier than its creators likely intended it to be. of course they intended this movie to be a neces­sary commentary on the current social climate and racial tensions in america. but how could they have predicted the specifics of the 2016 political landscape? nonetheless, “Zootopia” is incred­ibly pertinent to the current presidential race. without delving into spoilers, i will say that a fear mongering, opportunistic politician seeks to vilify the predators — the minority — in order to achieve and maintain power. sound familiar? 
it’s for this depth of characters and themes — not to mention the splendors, visual wonderment, a zany plot and enough jokes to burn, that you expect from a disney animated movie — that “Zootopia” is a must see. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                      nlaurean@nd.edu 
The orb is finished with their expedi­tions through electronic music — quite the opposite. in part due to its length, “alpine” leaves one not only wanting more (in a good way) but expecting it. This record’s overall aesthetic, well-re­flected in its sharp and modern cover art (compared to some rather dated ones in The orb’s past), characterizes a duo that is ready to embrace a new, more modern world of sound. but though “alpine” was a very satisfying release, it wasn’t exact­ly cutting-edge. now that The orb has caught up, it’s time for the duo to break some new ground. 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at asanch11@nd.edu 
‘Alpine’ 
The Orb 
Label: Kompakt Tracks: “Alpine Evening” If you like: The Avalanches 



ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


By THOM BEHRENS 
scene writer 

on march 4, Kendrick lamar re­leased a compilation album entitled “untitled unmastered.” on aftermath/ interscope records through Top dawg entertainment. The album contains songs that lamar was unable to release on his critically acclaimed 2015 album, “To pimp a butterfly,” as Kendrick told pitchfork. The album is 34-minutes long, and each song is untitled besides a num­ber and a date between 2013 and 2016, which indicates when the song was writ­ten, according to consequence of sound. 
From one angle, it is visibly reaction­ary to Kanye west’s “The life of pablo,” which was released several weeks prior. Kanye’s album, which he purported through his Twitter account to be a gos­pel account, received much backlash for this title, given much of the album’s crass and morally bankrupt content. conversely, lamar, who has always had the rare ability to reconcile spiri­tual pursuits with corporeal struggles, threads gospel themes and religious sympathies throughout all of his music, his latest effort included. Furthermore, 
By KEELY BERGIN 
scene writer 

while many on campus were pack­ing their bags or possibly already head­ing home for break, “1916: The irish rebellion” premiered at the debartolo performing arts center with all the pomp that it deserved. unless you are in an irish class or have a professor in the irish de­partment, you might not have heard of it — but it’s kind of a big deal. The film, along with a three-part documentary se­ries, is being released internationally on over 120 pbs stations, bbc4 and rTÉ. The project has been six years in the making, released to align with the centennial an­niversary of the 1916 easter rising. 
liam neeson, who narrated the docu­mentary, provided a moving reading of william butler yeats’ poem “easter 1916” at the premiere, which somberly set the stage by reminding the audience of the truly human cost of the rising. 
whereas “The life of pablo” was the culmination of much internet hype, single releases, instagram posts and eye-catching Twitter activity, “untitled unmastered.” came suddenly and with­out announcement. in the second half of “untitled 7,” Kendrick’s words almost point directly to Kanye’s “30 hours,” speaking to those in his studio about making “jam tracks,” and casually in­structing those around him how to play and perform. and in the context of Kanye’s album — at times disconnected and ad lib heavy — which has continued to have songs updated and re-released even a month after its debut, the format and nature of “untitled unmastered.” seems to be Kendrick saying, “oh, so this is what we’re doing? here, have some b-sides.” 
but b-sides aren’t always inferior, and “untitled unmastered.” is fantastic proof. a graceful and logical follow-up to “To pimp a butterfly,” “untitled un­mastered.” is unassumingly beautiful. Kendrick makes no expressed effort to “top himself” in lyric, sound or con­cept, yet still gives us an earnest and artful, ultimately very satisfying piece. “Tpab” defined the year in rap with 
“we know their dream; enough/ To know they dreamed and are dead.” The brutal executions of the leaders of the rising served as a catalyst for the fight for irish independence. 
irish ambassador anne anderson em­phasized the importance of the role that the united statesplayed during The easter rising, as well as the event’s internation­al effects. anderson lauded the move to think about the rising more critically as opposed to blind commemoration. 
according to christopher Fox, director of the Keough-naughton institute and english professor, “1916” is a unique ef­fort in how it demonstrates the interna­tional effects of this rebellion across the british empire. 
The documentary was written and co-produced by bríona nic dhiarmada, Thomas J. and Kathleen m. o’donnell. dhiarmada said the aim of the documen­tary was to show The rising not only as a historical event but also as “a story of lamar’s reactionary lyrics, abrasive tone and construction, his rendition of bob dylan’s “it ain’t me, babe” to the hip-hop machine. with “untitled unmastered.,” he now cements himself as an indepen­dent titan: “push[ing] the club to the side for [god]” as he says in the album’s opener. and like dylan, he chooses to ac­tively distance himself from the culture of his typified genre and, with “untitled unmastered.,” shows us the beauty and depth that can come by granting artists this freedom. much like the man whose vocal strategies he imitates, Kendrick has become both the poster child and rebel of his genre. 
The compilation, although character­istically avant-garde, still contains all the key ingredients for a fantastic lis­tening experience: collaborators ceelo green and Jay rock make frequent ap­pearances, and bassist and frequent col­laborator Thundercat appears on over half the tracks. shimmying drumlines, recurring anthemic mantras and those background singers who sang “we want the funk” in “King Kunta” move the lis­tener through a deep and head-nodding experience. due to its relaxed structure, the listener finds himself not moving 
real men and women, people of flesh and blood who participated or witnessed ep­och-making events ... a story of heroism and of cowardice, of moral courage and of venality, of mercy and of cruelty, of vic­tory and defeat.” 
dhiarmada certainly succeeded. The documentary presents the narrative of the rising in a manner that makes it ac­cessible to all audiences. readings of letters and writings by the leaders of the rising, useful commentary provided by leading irish historians, powerful visuals and an excellent musical score resulted in an engaging and thought-provoking piece. The sheer number of historians involved from ireland, the united states and britain is impressive. The acquisition of numerous primary sources must have been cumbersome, but well worth the effort. The visuals of different locations within dublin juxta­posing the past with the present keeps the audience engaged and reminds one of from song to song, but through the en­tire project, resurfacing at moments to appreciate specific riffs and hooks. Thundercat’s phenomenal expertise on the bass helps anchor the album to the same beat that led “To pimp a butterfly.” The album is pervaded by the chant “pimp, pimp, hooray!” — a reminder that the material in this new album is cut of the same cloth as his last. The re­minder is welcomed, but not needed; it is clear both from theme and quality that “untitled unmastered.” belongs to the lamar who is at the peak (thus far) of his artistic career. 
Contact Thom Behrens at                      tbehren1@nd.edu 
‘untitled unmastered.’ 
Kendrick Lamar 
Label: Top Dawg Ent Tracks: “untitled 6,” “untitled 7” If you like: J. Cole, Schoolboy Q. 

the end result of the rising. additionally, the interview clips of the family members that the leaders left behind proved to be the most emotionally moving parts of the documentary. 
For those that are interested in a more in-depth examination of the rising, its context and international effects, there is also a three-part documentary series to be released on pbs. a companion book has also been released by the university of notre dame press which includes stunning visuals from a myriad of con­temporary publications as well as pho­tographs and excerpts from the leaders of The rising themselves. There will be a documentary premiere for students to attend march 31 at 8:30 p.m. The event is free but ticketed; tickets can be obtained through the debartolo performing arts center. 
Contact Keely Bergin at                            kbergin1@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 






The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Forge ahead on your own steam. relying on others to take over or get things going will slow you down. do things your way. Taking a unique approach to life and love will help you find the happiness and satisfaction you are searching for. strive to do your best and take every precaution to avoid outside interference. your numbers are 2, 10, 21, 24, 33, 39, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t share secrets. someone will use any information you divulge against you. Focus on making the personal changes that encourage you to advance. invest in your skills, knowledge and future objectives. romance is in the stars. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take matters into your own hands. don’t trust someone else to take care of your affairs. opportunity will come to those who are willing to get involved. don’t limit what you do just because you feel uncertain. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep an open mind, but don’t neglect to look at the ins and outs of the situations you face. moderation and keeping things in perspective will be necessary if you are going to make the most of your day. avoid people who overreact. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you have so much to offer. don’t sit around — get started. participate in events or functions that inspire you to develop or follow through with some of your own creative ideas. romance is on the rise and will improve your personal life. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): reminisce, but don’t live in the past. Take what you can from the experiences you have had and begin working toward a better future. discipline, hard work and a little bit of forethought will bring good results. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look at every angle of whatever situation you face. it’s important to recognize how others feel and make decisions that take everyone’s wishes into account. work together with others to identify a solution that will ensure success. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): people will gravitate to your side if you are honest and show your desire to be helpful. don’t allow a bully to push you in a direction that doesn’t suit your beliefs. be true to yourself. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): plan to do something that allows you greater creativity and mental stimulation. sharing ideas or getting involved in a group collaboration in order to come up with something unusual will bring you satisfaction. romance is highlighted. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): confusion will set in if you haven’t been honest about the way you feel or what you want to do with your life. it’s time to bring about changes, but first you have to deal with the issues that are holding you back. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): strive to be your best. rid yourself of the poor habits you’ve picked up or indulgences that are a waste of time and money. it’s a new day, and you can make it a new beginning. check out your options and choose wisely. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): implement discipline and fortitude and you will achieve whatever you set out to do. refuse to let emotional situations go in the wrong direction. offer love and affection and you’ll avoid a senseless argument. self-improvement projects will pay off. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): stay out of other people’s affairs. interference will be your downfall. whether it’s you meddling in someone else’s business, or vice versa, it will not end well. Focus on personal improvements, not on trying to change others.  

Birthday Baby: you are entertaining, original and insightful. you are disciplined and opportunistic. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NFL free agency needs to change 

Ben Padanilam 
associate sports editor 
it’s many sports fans’ favorite time of the year: march madness. we’ve reached that time where everyone is busy filling out their bracket in whatever ra­tional or irrational way they please. 
but college basketball is not the only sport that contributes to the madness in march. nFl free agency is underway, and that has certainly been anything but sane. 
i’m a browns fan, so this season of free agency has been particularly frustrat­ing. while the front office seems content to make a fresh start, they’ve let four very good players who were some of the only brights spots of a poor team walk away without much of a fight, as they didn’t even franchise tag one of them. it’s far too early to judge these moves and the people who made them, but it puts extra pressure on the front office to ensure the moves work. 
but enough about the browns. Those moves were dictated by the team and the philosophy of its manage­ment. The true problem with free agency — one that is not unique to this offseason but has been made abun­dantly more clear — is the way that the market drives up prices on players who are not deserving of even half of the money they ultimately receive. 
Just look at some of the deals that have been reached this offseason. you all have probably heard by now that the houston Texans gave brock osweiler $72 million over four years. That’s more than Tony romo and carson palmer currently receive through their deals, and they are far more proven and suc­cessful commodities than osweiler. 
but his deal is not the only one that is mind blowing. Just to name a couple: sam bradford was given $36 mil­lion for two more years with the philadelphia eagles, despite last year’s disaster of a season. olivier vernon was given a five-year, $85 million deal from the new york giants, making him the third highest-paid defensive player in the entire nFl. That’s more than J.J. watt, von miller, richard sherman and other players who are far more accomplished at their respective positions. 
looking at how teams value players and comparing it to the value of others at their position, the alshon Jeffery, Travis benjamin and Janoris Jenkins deals also become suspect, amongst others. 
of course, there are cer­tainly reasons that these teams can give to attempt to justify some of these deals, but it is the market that is really driving these deals. and it is unfortunate, as these deals can ultimately hamstring these franchises for years to come as these players fail to live up to the expectations that come with the money they’re being given. 
and the price tags on these players will only continue to increase, making mediocre players even more valuable commodities, unless, per­haps, the nFl changes the way it conducts free agency. 
what if the nFl instituted some sort of vcg mecha­nism, which uses a second-price auction to match players with teams? That way, honesty would be at the forefront of the market, and teams would actually bid on players given how they value them individually rather than based on who is available. 
what about some sort of stable matching market de­sign? in this concept, players and organizations would be matched based on prefer­ences that exclude monetary factors. once stable matches are achieved — which means no one player or organiza­tion prefers another player or organization to the one they are already matched with given their preferences 
— then the players would ne­gotiate their contracts sepa­rate from the market. 
unfortunately, these methods might not actually improve upon the problems that exist in the nFl free agency market. and players certainly wouldn’t agree to it, because the market cur­rently favors them heavily. 
but something has to change. players should be paid based on their actual value and their resume, not solely on what a market ruled by inflation dic­tates they are worth. after all, march is already mad enough, and we could use a little more sanity in sports this time of year. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MEN’S TENNIS | nd 7, bc 0; nd 5, louisville 2; clemson 4, nd 3; waKe ForesT 7, nd 0 
notre dame splits four league contests over break 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 

The week of spring break was one of ups and downs for notre dame, as the irish (8-8, 2-2 acc) started their conference schedule with a couple wins against boston college and louisville, fol­lowed by a pair of road loss­es at the hands of clemson and wake Forest. 
acc play started well for the irish, as they dis­mantled boston college (3-8, 1-3) 7-0 on march 3 in chestnut hill. The irish rested most of their regular starters against the eagles and won handily at nearly every position, including freshman daniel rayl’s 6-2, 6-4 win over eagles sopho­more Kent mukai. irish head coach ryan sachire described rayl’s 3-1 perfor­mance in acc play as “huge for the team” because of other injuries to the notre dame squad. 
Three days later, the irish handled louisville (9-9, 0-4) at home by a score of 5-2. Freshman grayson broadus and senior nicolas montoya won their doubles flight and junior eddy covalschi and senior alex lawson did as well to quickly scure the doubles point. The four singles points were picked up by rayl, covalschi, ju­nior Josh hagar and senior Kenneth sabacinski. 
however, the irish found themselves on the wrong end of a back-and-forth tus­sle with clemson (11-7, 2-1) on Friday, as they dropped a 4-3 decision to the Tigers at the hoke sloan Tennis center, a loss that sachire described as “a bit of a dis­appointment.” The irish dropped the doubles point, losing on courts 2 and 3, and then proceeded to trade points for the entire­ty of singles, with broadus, hagar and rayl winning their respective matches. 
sachire noted the irish didn’t play their best ten­nis over the weekend, a fact magnified by their 7-0 road loss at the hands of no. 9 wake Forest (18-4, 3-1) on sunday. 
“Teams in this league are too good if you’re not play­ing well,” sachire said. “we didn’t play the big points as well as we could have [against wake Forest]. a lot of matches are coming down to a few key points, and we didn’t do a great job winning those points this past weekend.” 
notre dame, now .500 in acc play and overall, has played a season marked with inconsistency. however, sachire still believes the irish have the ability to capitalize on the numerous opportunities coming up on their schedule. 
“i think our level of play has been pretty good,” sachire said. “we know we have a lot of opportunities. we’re in a position to finish acc play well, and so now we have to play well.” 
such opportunities will present themselves this weekend, as the irish re­turn home to the courtney Tennis center, hosting duke at 3:30 on Friday and miami at noon sunday.host­ing duke at 3:30 on Friday and miami at noon sunday. 
Contact Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 

FENCING | ncaa midwesT regional 
Irish dominate regional field in Columbus 
Observer Staff Report 

The irish finished strong on the strip for the second year running at saturday’s ncaa midwest regional at French Field house in columbus, ohio. The team is set to qualify the maximum number of 12 fencers for the national championships lat­er this month. 
The no. 1 women’s team sent nine fencers to the strip and came out with two re­gional titles. a signature win over no. 6 ohio state high­lighted notre dame’s perfor­mance on the day. 
Freshman foil sabrina massialas had an outstanding day as she went 16-1 in the foil field. Five irish fencers finished in the top 15 for women’s foil, including senior nicole mcKee, fresh­man elyssa Kleiner, sopho­more erin dietsche and sophomore Zoe loh. senior catherine lee, also an acc champion in women’s epee, placed first in her field with a competitive 6-3 finish. 
on the men’s side, the no. 3 irish had a gold medal­ist in freshman axel Kiefer, who finished with a per­fect 11-0 foil performance. sophomore foil virgile collineau was close behind in third place, at 9-2 on the day. veteran senior garrett mcgrath (10-2) took silver in epee, and freshman darius Zacharakis came in fifth with a 7-5 finish. Freshman dylan French placed seventh with the same record. sophomore Jonathan Fitzgerald (7-2) finished strong for the irish, placing second in sabre. 
The top two finishers per weapon are set to com­pete for an ncaa title, and the committee will release the full list of qualifiers by wednesday. notre dame has the potential to send the maximum number of 12 fencers. The ncaa cham­pionships will begin march 24 at brandeis university in waltham, massachusetts. 




Seidel snatches two more national titles 
TRACK & FIELD | ncaa indoor championships 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
molly seidel expanded her trophy case this week­end as the senior won both the 3,000-meter and the 5,000-meter national cham­
pionships at the  ncaa  in­ 
door  championships  in  
birmingham, alabama.  

“molly is incredible, she’s ‘The girl on Fire,’” irish head coach alan Turner said. “she broke her own school record in the [five kilometer] for the third time in collegiate his­tory. she made it look easy, when we all know how ex­tremely difficult it is. Then she comes back the next day and wins the [three kilome­ter] for her fourth overall ncaa title. not only has she elevated her running, but her distance teammates and the team as well. i am so happy for her.” 
seidel said she was nervous coming into the meet, but noted that she was confident enough in her abilities and her training to pull out the two national titles. 
“definitely coming in it had been my goal for the whole season to try and go after the double [championship] and knowing that it was going to be an enormous amount of great competition there,” seidel said. “i was definitely nervous but very excited for it and very confident in the work that i had put in. it was a lot of nerves that i was fac­ing, but i was just so ready to get out there and race.” 
To pull out the victories, seidel pointed to patience and the influence of assistant coach matthew sparks. 
“i think patience has prob­ably been one of the biggest factors, not necessarily my own, but with coach sparks,” seidel said. “he’s been great with kind of sacrificing try­ing to run really fast at the beginning of the season and run a ton of meets for qual­ity. he makes sure that my training is progressing well and that i’m getting in a solid amount of rest and recov­ery and building in a solid enough base so that i still have energy and gas left in the tank by the time that i get to the end of the season.” 
with her recent victories, seidel now holds four nation­al championships, adding to titles won in the outdoor 10,000-meter run and cross country in 2015. 
To go along with seidel’s winning performance, the women’s team finished fifth overall in the indoor championships. 
“we finished 13th outdoors last season, eighth in cross country this season and now fifth indoors. it’s the high­est we have ever finished and first time in the top 10 for a women’s track team in nd history,” said Turner, “my goals for the program when i took the job last year were to finish in the top 10 in cross country, indoor and outdoor track. we are well on our way to making that happen. i’m proud of the entire team.” 
on its way to the fifth place finish, every notre dame athlete entered in the meet came back a first-team all­american. coach Turner not­ed being especially pleased with the performances of sophomore parker english and junior Jamie marvil in the distance medley relay, who ran in place of senior margaret bamgbose and seidel who qualified. 
“parker english and Jamie marvil were competing in their first ncaa champi­onships,” said Turner, “we didn’t run margaret or molly, due to them having to run hard on back-to-back days in their individual events. parker and Jamie ran great legs for us. parker’s 54.79 [sec­onds] 400-[meter] split and Jamie’s 800 split of 2:07.69 were great, even though their baton exchange was botched and Jamie ran into the official who was responsible for lin­ing up the outgoing runners.” 
Turner also noted sopho­more Jessica harris and senior danielle aragon’s con­tribution to the relay. 
“Jessica harris ran an ex­cellent opening 1,200 leg and [danielle] aragon finished the 1,600 leg in a very swift 
4:34.67. Their time of 11:01.86 is the fifth best in [notre dame] history,” Turner said. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 

paid adverTisemenT 




ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | The observer 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | miami 5, nd 2; nd 7, liu 0 
Irish lose one match, win another over break 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame played two matches over spring break, losing to miami in the first match before defeating liu brooklyn in the second. 
last sunday, the irish (9­5, 3-2) lost to the hurricanes (6-4, 3-2) 5-2 in their first scheduled match over break in coral gables, Florida. Junior mary closs and soph­omore brooke broda earned the only two singles victories of the day for the irish, on the fourth and fifth courts respectively. closs won her first set 6-3 before falling in the second set 6-3. in the tie-breaking set, closs fought off opponent silvia Fuentes, 6-2. broda lost her first set 6-2 before fighting back to force a third set, which she won 10-7. in doubles action, the teams of closs/senior Julie vrabel and senior Quinn gleason/junior monica robinson both lost their matches 6-3. broda/sopho­more allison miller were tied 4-4 before their match was discontinued. 
The irish were scheduled to play a double header against east carolina and liu brooklyn on Tuesday in puerto rico, but the match­es were cancelled due to weather. on Friday, the irish defeated liu brooklyn (0-7) 7-0 in a rescheduled match. notre dame won all of its singles matches in straight sets, highlighted by straight 6-0 wins from closs and back-to-back 6-1 victories by broda and freshman rachel chong. in doubles, gleason/ robinson and closs/vrabel won their matches 6-1, while broda/Fennelly shut out their opponents 6-0. 
irish head coach Jay louderback said this trip was beneficial to his team, both for team-bonding and in preparing for their up­coming outdoor matches. 
“we had a great experience in puerto rico,” louderback said, “and we had the op­portunity to play or practice outdoors every day, which will help us in the transi­tion to playing acc matches outdoors.” 
louderback said he was pleased with his team’s per­formance during the trip and thought they adapted to the unfamiliar conditions faster than he expected. 
“i thought we played re­ally well in both match­es and seemed to adjust to the elements really well,” louderback said. “Transitioning to outdoors can take some time but we seemed to adjust quickly.” 
louderback said it was im­portant to reschedule the match against liu brooklyn to make sure they didn’t play only one match over break and to play at least once in puerto rico. 
“we lost one match because of rain, but we were able to reschedule the long island 
u. match,” louderback said. “we really needed to get a least one match in besides the miami match, so things worked out well.” 
louderback said chong’s return from injury is impor­tant to his team’s depth go­ing forward. 
“we were able to get rachel chong her first dual match of the year,” louderback said. “she’s coming back from an injury, and getting her in the lineup against long island 
paid adverTisemenT 

shows we will have some ex­tra depth.” 
when asked about what area of his team’s game he thinks needs improvement, louderback pointed to his team’s doubles play. 
“we will continue to work on our doubles,” louderback said. “i’m really excited about the way we’ve competed in singles. we have to get our doubles up to our singles lev­el, and then we will be able to compete with any team.” 
notre dame’s next match will be at home against wake Forest on Friday at 3:30 p.m. at the eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
november, the huskies have been unbeatable recently. Through the first two rounds of the hockey east tourna­ment, the huskies have now extended their winning streak to 11 games and are 18-1-2 since the middle of december. 
because of northeastern’s current streak, the bye week could have actually hurt more than it helped, accord­ing to senior defenseman andy ryan. 
“it is hard to know how much it affected us, but i think it probably had an im­pact,” ryan said. “we were not prepared for the start of the game on Friday night, and it looked like we did not take advantage of the bye week, which was disappointing.” 
in the opening game of the weekend Friday night, sophomore goaltender cal petersen surrendered a pair of goals in the first seven minutes of the first period. sophomore defenseman Jordan gross quickly cut the deficit in half at 7:35 of the opening frame. however, the comeback attempt ended there, with the irish failing to score on a five-minute powerplay in the first pe­riod and hitting a number of posts throughout the game. northeastern added a late empty-net goal to bring the final score to 3-1. 
Then on saturday, an out­burst of scoring from both squads resulted in ten total goals, but notre dame came out on the short end of a 6-4 decision. petersen gave up his highest goal total of the season to the huskies on saturday, letting in all six northeastern goals. 
The upside for notre dame from saturday’s game, if there is one, should be that it snuck four goals past fresh­man goaltender ryan ruck, who has posted a .915 save percentage on the season. sophomore defenseman luke ripley gave the irish a first period lead on his goal, while senior left wing mario lucia scored twice and se­nior center Thomas dipauli added another to keep the score close. 
The two losses capped a disappointing end to the season for the irish, who dropped five of their final six games against tough compe­tition, including providence, boston university and northeastern. 


believes it can make a run if it makes the tournament. 
“The team is still optimis­tic about our tournament chances,” ryan said. “i think we understand that as long as we get into the tourna­ment, then anything can happen.” 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
shots. 
landis and the irish then came home to battle denver, a team that was ranked sec­ond in two of the national polls and first in the other — with notre dame holding on to the top spot in two head­ing into the matchup. 
The previous two times these teams met needed overtime, and this affair was no different. after trail­ing 7-2, the irish ripped off six straight goals to take the lead over the pioneers. Four of those goals occurred in under 43 seconds with time dwindling down. 
“one thing we know about our guys is that there’s no quitting,” irish head coach Kevin corrigan said. “i never questioned whether our guys were going to play to the last whistle, i just wish we had played better.” 
denver tied the game up with just over two minutes to play and maintained pos­session throughout overtime before pioneer junior mid­fielder Zach miller’s goal with 2:02 to play. 
“[The level of competi­tion] has certainly increased greatly because of the cali­ber of teams we have been playing,” ryan said. “i think the biggest thing is it has be­come much harder to score against these teams, es­pecially since it’s towards the end of the season. This means that we have to be al­most perfect defensively and 
“it’s crazy, that’s five out of six going to overtime,” corrigan said. “it’s two teams that know each other, we’re both well-prepared for each other, the kids are go­ing to compete like crazy and you’ve just [got] to find a way to make the last play of the game.” 
wynne led the way again for the irish with three goals on the day. wynne said he was disappointed with the team’s start but knew they had it in them to come back. 
“That’s the one thing about our team — even though we had an awful first three take advantage of our oppor­tunities to score when we do get them.” 
now the irish are forced to watch as the hockey east tournament concludes next weekend without them. notre dame will wait un­til sunday to hear if it did enough to earn a spot in the 16-team ncaa tournament field, but ryan said the team 
quarters, we never give up,” wynne said. “This team has a lot of heart. we fought to the very end… [and] it makes you think what we can do if we put a whole game together.” 
“we live for that moment honestly,” added junior mid­fielder p.J. Finley, who scored the opening goal as well as the go-ahead goal for the irish. “guys in this team have been in every possible con­ceivable situation… [so] the kids don’t get scared by this type of moment. we live for it. and honestly i don’t think anyone in our team was sur­prised that we stepped up like that.” 
while leaving the ranks of the unbeaten, notre dame dropped only to no. 2 in the inside lacrosse poll, while denver replaced them on top. 
The irish will resume play saturday when they wel­come an unranked virginia team (3-4, 0-1 acc) to arlotta stadium. The game will get underway at 6 p.m. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 





ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2016 | The observer 

won both ncaa tournament M Bball games between the teams, in 
conTinued From page 16 
offensively and defensively, see who their best players are, how they play offense, defense helps us out a lot.” 
Junior guard demetrius Jackson said notre dame can use the stretch without a set opponent to work on ridding the squad of the turnover bug: The irish turned it over 35 times in two games at the acc tournament last week. 
“once we can figure out who we play, we can dial it in more,” Jackson said. “but these few days, we can work on ourselves. working on taking care of the ball, work­ing on what we can just do to clean up our game.” 
irish junior guard demetrius Jackson looks to drive during notre dame’s overtime win over duke on Thursday in the acc tournament. 
michigan leads the all-time series with notre dame, 15-7, with the last meeting an 87-84, double-overtime wolverines win in ann arbor, michigan, on march 20, 2006. notre dame’s last win in the series came on march 15, 2000, when the irish ran away 75-65 winners. michigan has 1974 and 1976. 
prior to his season-ending injury, senior guard caris levert led the wolverines in scoring with 16.5 points per game. without levert, how­ever, junior guard/forward Zak irvin leads a trio of ac­tive michigan players in dou­ble figures, averaging 11.7 points per outing. 
The irish have met Tulsa just once on the hardwood, with the golden hurricane taking a 74-59 home win on Feb. 19, 1955. 
Tulsa’s offensive lead­ers reside in the backcourt, with senior James woodard, who averages 15.6 points per game, leading a trio of golden hurricane guards that average double figures. 
This  will  mark  notre  
dame’s  fourth  appearance  
in  the  ncaa  tournament  

as a no. 6 seed; in 2001, the irish topped Xavier in the first round before losing to mississippi in the second round, while in 2007 and 2010, notre dame exited early, losing to no. 11 seeds winthrop and old dominion. 
if notre dame advances in the tournament, it would see the winner of a game between no. 3-seeded west virginia and no. 14-seeded stephen F. austin in the sec­ond round sunday. 


should the irish advance out of the first two rounds, they would head to the sweet 16, played at philadelphia’s wells Fargo center on march 25 and 27. no. 2-seeded Xavier would be a poten­tial opponent in that round, while no. 1-seeded north carolina, no. 4-seeded Kentucky and no. 5-seeded indiana highlight the other half of the bracket. 
sunday’s ncaa tourna­ment selection came on the heels of an acc tournament performance that saw notre dame dig itself a deep hole twice, working out of it to beat no. 19 duke, 84-79, in overtime Thursday be­fore falling 78-47 to no. 3 north carolina in Friday’s semifinal. 
senior forward Zach auguste’s 19-point, 22-re­bound performance led the irish over the blue devils (23-10, 11-7), but it was the big comeback that stole the headlines. down 64-48 mid­way through the second half, the irish ran off 14 straight points to close the gap to two with just over four min­utes to play, and they got the game to overtime at 70-70. 
There, notre dame pushed past a duke team that had ground out a win over north carolina state the day be­fore, moving onto the acc tournament semifinals for the second straight year. 
That’s where notre dame’s time in washington came to an end, however, as the Tar heels (28-6, 14-4) avenged a loss earlier in the season in what started as a tight con­test, but quickly ballooned to a one-sided one. north carolina led just 23-22 with around six minutes to go in the first half, but the Tar heels produced a 24-0 run either side of halftime to take a firm grip on a game where the irish produced their low­est offensive output of the year with just 47 points. 
notre dame, losers of four of seven, will return to action Friday in the ncaa tourna­ment against michigan or Tulsa. The irish play the last game of the day in brooklyn, with tipoff estimated for 9:40 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 



W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
muffet mcgraw said. “we’ve got great teams coming in here, and we’ve got to do the job on them.” 
The other teams to earn no. 1 seeds in the tournament were connecticut, the over­all top seed, south carolina, who is on the same side of the bracket as notre dame, and baylor. 
Though their bid to the ncaa tournament was never in doubt, the irish secured it last week by winning their third consecutive acc tour­nament with a 68-57 victory over syracuse. That was pre­ceded by a 78-67 win over miami (Fla.) in the semifinal and an 83-54 win over duke in the quarterfinal. 
capturing the tournament victory was never really in question for notre dame, which trailed for just a com­bined eight and a half minutes in its three games. graduate student guard madison cable was named the tournament mvp after averaging 14.3 points per game, including an 18-point game with six 3s against syracuse. Junior guard lindsay allen and sophomore forward brianna Turner joined cable in earn­ing first-team all-tournament honors. 
The tournament title is the team’s fourth straight, extending back to its final season in the big east. notre dame has captured the reg­ular-season and tournament championships in each of its first three seasons in the acc. 
“i think the first one is al­ways special, when you come into a new league,” mcgraw said. “and coming out of the big east, which was a great league, and coming into the acc not knowing everybody and winning and going un­defeated was really special for us. Then this year, look­ing at our team and thinking of what we’ve lost and what we’ve come through, who we’re playing and how it’s been working out, this team has surprised me. 
“it’s probably not the most talented team we’ve had in the last five years, but it’s certainly one of the most fun. They are just a joy to be around, they work so hard, and it’s been really great watching them improve throughout the year.” 
with the acc trophy wrapped up, notre dame was able to take a much-deserved rest during the university’s spring break, mcgraw said, before players return to the court this week in preparation for the ncaa tournament. 
“i think that one of the things we’ve been able to do well over the years is give them a rest, because men­tally, it’s just so big,” she said. “They’ve got so much work academically, and then they’re over here, when they have a day off, it’s never on the weekend because we’re playing sunday or monday. so for them to have time off to just get out and be kids and enjoy life and hopefully get into the gym and get a couple of shots up, but generally just really relax.” 
notre dame hits to the hardwood with the goal of ad­vancing to its sixth consecu­tive Final Four, which will take place in indianapolis. The irish will start that cam­paign this saturday against north carolina a&T, with tip at 6:30 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish set to host opening rounds as region’s top seed 
By MARY GREEN 
senior sports writer 
notre dame earned its fifth-straight no. 1 seed in the ncaa tournament on monday night, setting the irish up for an open­ing-round game against no. 16 seed north carolina a&T on saturday. 
The irish (31-1, 16-0 acc) are the top seed in the lexington, Kentucky, region, where they will play if they advance past north carolina a&T in the first round and the winner of no. 8 georgia and no. 9 indiana in the second round. 
beginning with last year’s tournament, the top four seeds in each region host the first two rounds of games, so the irish will play their first two games at purcell pavilion before po­tentially heading to lexington. 
“we’re excited to be going to lexington, but right now, we’ve got to focus on our first two games,” irish head coach 
see w bball PAGE 15 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND to start NCAA play in Brooklyn 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
a potential rivalry game could await notre dame on Friday in the ncaa tourna­ment’s east region, as the no. 6-seeded irish will take on ei­ther michigan or Tulsa, both no. 11 seeds, at barclays center in brooklyn, new york. 
The wolverines (22-12, 10-8 big Ten) and the golden hurricane (20-11, 12-6 The american) will meet wednesday in dayton, ohio, in one of the First Four games, with the winner moving on to face the irish (21-11, 11-7 acc) in an east region first-round game. 
sunday’s selection show pre­sented notre dame with an unusual set of circumstances 
— it’s the first time since the field expanded to 64 teams in the 1980s the irish don’t know their first opponent right off the bat. 
irish head coach mike brey said he’s looking forward to having a chance to work with his team without worrying about setting a game plan for their opponent. 
“i’ll say this: i will not be as distracted with the opponent,” brey said. “i’ll be more concen­trating on my team, and that’s probably a good thing for this team right now. To work on us for a couple days and then may­be throw in some michigan/ Tulsa stuff wednesday.” 
while teams that have played in the First Four have had suc­cess in subsequent games in re­cent years, sophomore bonzie colson said he’s happy to get a chance to watch notre dame’s opponent play wednesday. 
“it’s gonna be a little differ­ent for us knowing that there’s a play-in game before we play, but it gives us an opportu­nity to watch their game live and see how they’re playing,” colson said. “Knowing that we can watch the game and maybe look at their tendencies 
see m bball PAGE 15 

MEN’S LACROSSE | denver 9, nd 8 (oT) 
Pioneers take top-two contest 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
Twice last season, notre dame took part in games between teams ranked nos. 1 and 2 at arlotta stadium, and twice the irish pre­vailed. sunday, however, the irish dropped one, falling to then-no. 2 denver in over­time, 9-8. 
no. 2 notre dame (4-1) suf­fered its first loss of the sea­son as the irish went 1-1 over the break. on sunday, notre dame tried to enact revenge against denver (6-0), the team who knocked the irish out of the ncaa tourna­ment last year in the semi­finals and eventually won it all. The irish were not able to stop the now-top-ranked pioneers, however, falling after a furious comeback at­tempt — and in the process allowing denver to extend the longest winning streak in the nation to 19 games. 
a week earlier, notre dame opened its spring break by traveling to california for the pacific coast shootout against no. 6 maryland (3-2). 
There, the then-no. 1 irish pulled away in the fourth quarter to deal the 2015 ncaa runner-up Terrapins a 9-4 loss. 
sophomore attack mikey wynne was key for the irish against maryland. he scored four goals despite aggressive defense, and the irish ended up scoring five straight goals in the last 5:22 to pull away. despite the offensive output late, the game was truly a low-scoring affair that val­ued defense. 
“it was a testament to both defenses tonight,” irish senior defenseman matt landis said. 
after the win, landis, a senior captain and all­american, earned hon­ors as the acc defensive player of the week and the united states intercollegiate lacrosse association (usila) defensive player of the week. landis held top maryland attack junior matt rambo to just one goal on six 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | norTheasTern 3, nd 1; norTheasTern 6, nd 4 
notre dame bounced from hockey east tournament 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
after closing out the regu­lar season with a shutout win to secure third place in hockey east, the irish came out flat in the confer­ence tournament and were unable to skate out of the quarterfinals. 
no. 12 notre dame (19-10­7, 15-5-2), having finished in the top four of the confer­ence in the regular season, earned a bye through the opening weekend and the right to host their quarter­final matchup at compton Family ice arena. 
however, the irish drew a red-hot, sixth-seeded northeastern team in the second round and dropped the first two games to the no. 14 huskies (20-13-5, 10­8-4) in a best-of-three series over the weekend. 
Though notre dame had skated to a win and a tie in a pair of games against northeastern back in 
see hocKey PAGE 14 





