The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 71 | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University celebrates MLK Day 
Inaugural candlelight prayer service honors legacy of Martin Luther King 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
This year, the university is taking new steps to celebrate the life and legacy of martin luther King Jr. That effort began last night with the be­ginning of the first annual walk the walk week, a series of events designed to pro­mote diversity and inclusion at notre dame. 
The week kicked off sunday night with a march and can­dlelit prayer service in the main building, followed by a late night breakfast in south dining hall. 
“The march marks — quite literally — the university community’s first steps in coming together that day,” a university-wide email said. “The hope is that our collec­tive reflection on the values 
see mlK PAGE 4 



attorney requests order 

Observer Staff Report 
a notre dame student filed a lawsuit last october against the university and a former employee, alleg­ing sexual harassment and racial discrimination. wsbT reported Friday that the for­mer employee’s attorney, ed sullivan, requested a “pro­tective order for informa­tion exchanged during the discovery phase of the case.” 
The suit alleges a white university employee — “Jane roe”  — coerced the plaintiff — “John doe,” an african-american student at the university — into a sexual relationship with her daughter, who 
see lawsuiT PAGE 4 




ND showcases First Folio 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Four hundred years ago, in 1616, william shakespeare died. as his legacy, he left behind 37 plays and more than 150 poems that still capture the attention of mod­ern readers. in celebration of the 400th anniversary of the bard’s death, the Folger shakespeare library is allowing a few of its 82 copies of the first folio to tour the u.s., and notre dame was select­ed as indiana’s only host site. 

“There was a gigantic campus-wide effort here with shakespeare nd, rare books and special collections, hesburgh libraries and the important people over in the dome, who recognized this would be a wonderful opportu­nity given notre dame’s tradi­tion with shakespeare and the performance that happen every year and shakespeare nd,” Julie Tanaka, curator of special col-shakespeare was one of the first lections, said. “we made a sales english dramatists to have his pitch for why we were interested work published as a folio. and why we were a good host site, “a folio is when you take a piece and we were selected as the site in of paper, and you fold it in half; indiana to host.” shakespeare’s plays previous to 
The first folio contains 36 of this — 19 of them had been print­shakespeare’s plays. Tanaka said ed — were published in what are called ‘quarto,’ where a piece of paper is folded into fourths,” she said. “Those were meant to be passed around, read and discard­ed, so they were printed on cheap­er paper, kind of like a newspaper. 

see Folio PAGE 3 


smc hosts presidency finalists 
Observer Staff Report 

since an email sent to the campus communi­ty over the summer an­nounced president carol ann mooney’s retirement at the end of the 2015-2016 academic year, saint mary’s has launched a search for the college’s 12th president. 
spearheaded by chair elizabeth culligan, the presidential search committee aims to in­volve the college commu­nity in the selection process through allowing it to in­teract with the candidates, according to the college’s website. 
The finalists were invited to campus on separate dates to participate in the follow­ing events: a meeting with the congregation leadership team, a breakfast with facul­ty assembly officers, a meet­ing with the cabinet and open forums with students, hourly staff, administra­tors and faculty, according to college. each candidate’s resume was forwarded to the community preceding her visit to campus. 
The finalists also gave pre­sentations outlining a five-year plan for the college and introducing which strate­gies they would implement if they were named president. attendees were then invited to ask questions and engage in open discussion with the candidates. The search committee has stressed the importance of community involvement in its selection process. 
Following each candidate’s presentation, members of the saint mary’s community, including students, faculty, administrators, alumnae and staff, received an elec­tronic evaluation form as­sessing each candidate’s 
see presidenT PAGE 3 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney                        cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What TV series do you plan on binge watching next? 

Mark Betita 
sophomore o’neill hall 
“naked and afraid.” 
Molly Demel 
sophomore lyons hall 
“parks and rec.” 
Elise Weimholt 
freshman welsh Family hall 
“game of Thrones.” 


Josefa Osorio 
freshman welsh Family hall 
“grey’s anatomy.” 
Sid Magdaong 
freshman siegfried hall 
“The office.” 
Alejandro Anderson 
freshman o’neill hall 
“black list.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: rachel o’grady victoria llorens megan valley 
Scene Graphics Jimmy Kemper 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lauren weldon 
Viewpoint Photo claire radler 

Women’s Basketball Social Concerns Fair Islamaphobia in “Finding Vivian Labor Café 
michael yu 

vs. Tennessee Geddes Hall Europe Panel Maier” Geddes Hall Joyce Center 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Hesburgh Center Snite Museum of Art 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Find ways to get 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Discussion related to 
Corrections 

The Irish take on the involved in the South Sponsored by the Kroc Film about the street work, inequality and 
The observer regards itself as Lady Vols. Bend community. and Nanovic Institutes. photographer. social justice. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Lecture: “Black Lives Women’s Tennis vs. Men’s Basketball vs. “A Midsummer Camilee A. Brown & 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Matter” Western Michigan Virginia Tech Night’s Dream” Dancers 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Hall Eck Tennis Pavillion Joyce Center Washington Hall DeBartolo Performance 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m.-9 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:55 p.m. Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Movement co-founders The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Performed by Actors 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

speak on race relations. Broncos. Hokies.. From the London Stage. Storytelling and dance. 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | The observer 

Shakepeare’s works made available digitally 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
how can we access shakespeare in the digital age, more than 400 years after his time? on Friday, elliott visconsi, associate professor of english, con­current associate professor of law and the university’s chief academic digital of­ficer, presented a lecture titled “mobile shakespeare” at the hesburgh library de­partment of rare books and special collections, that attempted to answer the question. 
The lecture, which delved into the topic of using tech­nology to better teach shakespeare was part of the “Folio Fridays” lecture series, was presented in conjunction with the First Folio nation­al exhibit, which will be at notre dame through the end of January. The First Folio is the first collected edition of shakespeare’s plays, accord­ing to the shakespeare at notre dame website, and is “one of the world’s most trea­sured books.” 
“we have to confront the big questions that maybe stu­dents or new readers come to shakespeare with and that is: why am i doing this? why shakespeare?” visconsi said. “shakespeare invites us, prompts us, to practice a method of reading that is a close reading in a literary world that is not our own.” 
in order to help students, tackle that close reading in a more productive way, visconsi said he and his col­leagues partnered with the publishing company simon 
Folio 
conTinued From page 1 
The folio was reserved for impor­tant works. They were reserved for government documents, theological treatises, some high literary things.” 
shakespeare’s First Folio is especially crucial because with­out it, 17 of his plays — includ­ing “macbeth,” “measure for measure” and “Julius caesar” — may have been lost forever. 
according to Tanaka, henry clay Folger, an oil mogul, started a “buying spree” of shakespeare’s first folios in the late 1800s. approximately 750 were printed in 1623. Today, the locations of 233 are known; 82 of them are at the Folger library, making it the largest collection in the world. The second largest, in Tokyo, Japan, has 12. 
“This is one of the 82 copies the Folger library holds. it’s opened to the famous soliloquy in hamlet, ‘To be or not to be.’” she & schuster, inc. and the Folger shakespeare library to create Folger luminary shakespeare ipad apps. 
visconsi said his foray into the digital world of shakespeare began when he and his colleagues tackled the challenge of creating a digi­tal version of shakespeare’s “The Tempest” for ipad. 
“we started in 2011 with ‘The Tempest.’ we wanted to make sure that we weren’t taking the play apart in piec­es that are unrecognizable. we wanted to preserve the in­tegrity of the play,” visconsi said. “on the one hand, we think about the play as a whole, but we also wanted to focus on modeling the deep dives or close readings that students have to slow down over.” 
after the success of the “The Tempest” for ipad, visconsi said he and his colleagues created eight more applica­tions, including “macbeth,” “hamlet,” “romeo and Juliet” and “a midsummer night’s dream.” 
according to visconsi, there are numerous advan­tages to reading shakespeare on this digital platform. users of the application can read short commentaries from a multitude of shakespearians, which helps to deepen the users’ understanding of key textual moments within the play. users can also choose to listen to an audio version of the play while reading or view images that are relevant to certain parts of each play. 
“not only do we know that the text needs to be read, but also it’s preformed. so we designed a feature that 

said. “it’s printed in two columns and there are approximately 900 pages in this volume. it’s easier to read that way.” 
Folger spent anywhere from a “couple hundred” dollars to around $68,000 for each of his folios, depending on the qual­ity and condition. according to Tanaka, the folios would cost be­tween $5 and $6 million, based on the last two sales in 2006 and 2008. 
“This [particular one] came from washington d.c. it was packed up in a nice container with other wrappings around it, not only to protect it, but to allow it to adjust to the different cli­mates as it came out here, slow­ly,” she said. “when you have a book like this, and you go from 80 degrees to 12 degrees, it puts a lot of stress on the book itself, and it causes the binding to do funny things, so the book wouldn’t last another 200 years. it was un­packed, allowed to adjust to our climate and then put into display in a case.” 
would play a live audio per­formance word-for-word … as you read a live audio ver­sion plays,” visconsi said. “cognitive science proves that if you read and hear at the same time, you get bet­ter retention, better mastery and comprehension. it was a research-informed decision to have the audio and the text synched up and working simultaneously.” 
The application does not include any video of the plays, visconsi said. 
“video over-determines the interpretation [of the play], while audio does not. when listening to audio, there is still a lot of imaginative work that goes on,” visconsi said. “audio can really drive the cognitive experience.” 
visconsi said the pur­pose of the ipad application is to engage readers with shakespeare and deepen their understanding of the plays. 
“everything we put in [the app], we designed it as an invitation. we tried to con­textualize it as an invitation rather than a replacement,” visconsi said. “it is an invita­tion to, for example, the dis­covery of ‘to be or not to be,’ so not the definitive account of it or an invitation to under­standing that ‘this is a pencil sketch of a globe’ and there is enough context in the story that you are more likely to go and check it out. it is show­ing people what is interest­ing and possible in ways that they might not have exposure to otherwise.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
Two of shakespeare’s friends and fellow actors in the King’s company helped compile his plays for the folio. while 19 had been previously printed, Tanaka said there’s some “sketchiness” regarding the remaining 17 and how they were included, since accounts are vague and few. 
“That adds to the charm of shakespeare,” Tanaka said. “There are some things we’ll nev­er know, and it lets you imagine things. That’s what’s nice about his plays too. They’re written for an audience not only for the 17th century, but the 21st cen­tury as well. There’s something in all of his plays that appeals to everyone. you can see them per­formed as we think it happened in the 17th century, or you can see how it’s reinterpreted for the 21st century, in very loose terms. you can see a combination of both, in movies, in comic books, in literature.” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 

SMC celebrates Heritage Week 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
saint mary’s will celebrate numerous traditions central to the formation of the roots of the college during heritage week through a series of events prepared by the student government association (sga) mission committee and alumni relations committee. 
This year’s theme emphasizes the word “her” within heritage because of the college’s heritage as an all-women institution, sga alumni relations co-chair megan carswell said. 
The heritage dinner on monday night is one of the most traditional events of heritage week, sga mission committee co-chair rachel stolz said. The dinner includes a presentation on the history of the college and is only open to juniors and se­niors, she said. 
“The dinner is reminis­cent of the way the meal used to be served at saint mary’s,” she said. “it was a right of pas­sage and honor to be invited. Typically there would be [first years] and sophomores acting as student waiters at the event. [First years] and sophomores can look forward to having that special event just for them when it’s their time.” 
archive tours led by college archivist John Kovach at 10 a.m., 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. Tuesday in the basement of madeleva hall will give students a chance to learn about historical college artifacts. 
“i never took full advantage of heritage week before,” carswell said. “i’m excited to go to the archive room because there are so many interesting facts about saint mary’s that you don’t re­ally realize. There are actually stories behind certain trees that were planted on campus, and some trees that sister madeleva intentionally wanted there. 
“There are stories about the fifth annex in le mans hall and the maids who used to live there. maids used to come with students and clean their stu­dent’s room. it’s all so interest­ing,” carswell said. 
Tuesday tea will be served in riedinger house at 12 p.m. and 5 p.m., stolz said. students are also invited to attend the Father moreau dinner wednesday. The feast day celebration is not an official part of heritage week, but it is a great way to honor the heritage of the college, she said. 
a poetry reading in haggar parlor on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. will allow students a chance to enter the beautiful building and see the product of a recent floor renovation that kept it closed for a while, carswell said. 
“i don’t know if many students are aware of how pretty haggar is,” she said. “The college actu­ally used to have dances there. students submitted poems about saint mary’s that will be read at the poetry reading, and we also have some poems from past students in the 1800s and 1900s about saint mary’s. students will have a chance to write and share poetry.” 
heritage week is a time to remember the past and also to think about how our actions today will be remembered hun­dreds of years from now, stolz said. one story that has been shared for generations high­lights the historical significance of the college’s nursing pro­gram, she said. 
“during the civil war, a union general wrote to Father sorin asking for nurses, so mother angela took a group of nurses to the union hospitals, and they were some of the first nurses ac­tive during the civil war,” she said. “The nurses also worked on a boat which took them up and down the mississippi river transferring soldiers to differ­ent hospitals, and now they are honored at a war memorial in washington, d.c. for their work. 
“There are a variety of stories you learn about by going to the heritage week events, such as what is was like when the sis­ters first came over and the con­struction of le mans,” stolz said. 
lunchtime trivia on Friday gives students a final chance to test their heritage week knowl­edge and win prizes, she said. 
“There’s no greater oppor­tunity than this week to learn about saint mary’s,” carswell said. “we don’t have a ‘history of saint mary’s’ class, so this is a really good time to learn more about this beautiful campus and beautiful school, to em­brace saint mary’s heritage and the graduates who went before us.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
President 
conTinued From page 1 
strengths and weaknesses. The search committee will consid­er responses to this survey as it aims to choose a president who best fulfills the needs and demands of the college, it said in an update posted to the college’s website. 
Though three finalists were originally scheduled to present at these events from Jan. 12 to Jan. 21, one of the candidates withdrew before the campus visit scheduled for Jan. 21. The two candidates presented last week, and the presidential search committee will meet and discuss the successor to president mooney’s 12-year service to saint mary’s. 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MLK 
conTinued From page 1 
that are so central both to King’s legacy and to notre dame’s mission will continue in various settings throughout the days, weeks and months to 
come.”  
The  president’s office,  
diversity  council,  
multicultural  student  

programs and services, the department of africana studies and the institute for latino studies, in addition to a number of other clubs and departments on campus, will sponsor a variety of events over the course of the week. 
“so many people worked to­gether to make this happen,” senior chizo ekechukwu, chair of diversity council, said. “a lot of different groups throughout campus came to­gether in collaboration to cre­ate conversations about this topic.” 
This year, for the first time, notre dame cancelled all classes and other campus ac­tivities from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. on martin luther King Jr. day. students, faculty and staff with tickets may attend a lun­cheon and panel discussion in the Joyce center during this time. all other members of the community may eat a special meal at the dining halls during this time by presenting a notre dame id. 
senior rachel wallace, a member of diversity council, said she thinks walk the walk week will provide the notre dame community with more opportunities to reflect on the meaning of King’s legacy. 
“There’s been a lot of conver­sation about why we don’t have martin luther King day off because we should be honor­ing him,” she said. “The whole week makes the celebration about something bigger than just the holiday. The best way to honor him is living out his ideas.” 
senior ray’von Jones, student union representative to diversity council, said she is especially excited to listen to a presentation from patrisse cullors and opal Tometi, the co-founders of the black lives matter movement, on monday night in debartolo hall. 
“what better way to un­derstand an emerging move­ment, something that’s so widespread at this point, than hearing it from the people who cofounded it?” Jones said. “hopefully the talk will help people better understand the significance of the week in general.” 
Throughout the rest of the week, the university will host various events and panels to highlight the themes of diver­sity and inclusion, both in the past and the present. 
“i think people tend to think that diversity and inclusion aren’t an issue that they need to be involved in,” Jones said. “it’s important not to look at the civil rights movement as a static thing, because people are still fighting for civil rights, and there are still people who lack civil rights. 
“The week challenges us to live out what dr. King was working for and what so many other civil rights leaders were and are working for.” 
ekechukwu said the week is a chance for notre dame stu­dents to focus on little things they can do on a daily basis to make notre dame a better place. 
“martin luther King Jr. is someone that so many people really respect. he’s an iconic figure, but i feel like a lot of times his words and what he stands for can get lost,” she said. “ … i’m really hoping walk the walk week will open people’s eyes about things and help them take a more active role to make notre dame a more inclusive place.” 
wallace said she thinks walk the walk week will continue in future years. 
“we’re stepping into new ter­ritory,” she said. “There’s a lot of visions that haven’t been in­corporated yet and things that i’m sure we can do better ev­ery year. i think this is a great step in the right direction, but i would love to see this week continue to grow.” 
The hashtag #ndwalkthewalk will be used on social media throughout the week to engage students in the conversations about di­versity and inclusion, wallace said. 
“how are you going to walk the walk? what’s your next step?” she said. “That’s the theme of the week — chal­lenging people to act or get involved.” 
Jones said she hopes notre dame students can send a mes­sage and inspire other schools to create conversations about civil rights in today’s age. 
“hopefully people will come out and support and engage in the events,” she said. “i think people will walk away with more motivation to improve our community and get more involved, realizing what strug­gles were in the past and what we are still struggling with.” 
university president Fr. John Jenkins has been involved with the organization of walk the walk week, ekechukwu said, embodying the university’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
“Fr. Jenkins is going to be at all the events,” she said. “he’s really put this on his priority list when he’s a very busy man. it says a lot about his intentions and his goals for the university. … it shows that this is something notre dame believes in.” 
a full schedule of the week’s events can be found online at http://diversity.nd.edu/ walk-the-walk/ 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
Lawsuit 
conTinued From page 1 
attends a “nearby school” but is also an employee of the university. The suit also alleges university adminis­trators knew  about the mis­conduct and, citing Title vi and Title iX, had a respon­sibility to intervene for the student’s wellbeing, which was compromised by a ra­cially and sexually hostile env ironment. 
John doe’s attorney, pete agostino, did not object to the request for a protective order, wsbT reported, “but said he wanted to reexam­ine the scope of what could be deemed as ‘confidential.’ … The judge, honorable michael scopelitis, agreed to let the attorneys reach an agreement on what would be considered ‘confidential’ before making a decision in a few weeks.” 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 




INSIDE COLUMN 

good books and great books 
Megan Valley 
news writer 

it probably comes as no surprise that i, a program of liberal studies (pls) ma­jor, love books. even before i could read, i would hoard books from around my house: picture books my dad would read to me and my younger sisters, my mom’s John grisham novels or really any book that caught my eye. i’d stack them in my “library,” which was really just a side table in our family room that i’d shove all of “my” books under. 
once i learned how to read, i continued to collect and keep obscene amounts of books. all throughout middle and high school, all of my birthday and christmas gifts were books or gift cards that would eventually be used to buy more books. i read all of them almost immediately. 
which leads us to present day. i’m a sophomore in college who hasn’t read half of the books i’ve received or bought in the past year and a half. i’m too busy reading my school books. and yes, i do recognize the irony in being unable to read the books i want to because i’m too busy with my major’s notoriously heavy assigned readings. i’m so busy reading “great books” that i don’t have any time to read books that might be merely good or mediocre or even downright trashy. 
i still love reading, but it’s become a much more academic love. even when i’m reading for pleasure, it’s not the same as when i was 12 years old and binge reading the latest “harry potter” book. it’s harder to simply read for the sake of a good story when you’re preoccupied with all the things you need to consider for 85 percent of your reading time. 
There’s also a lot more pressure to make your leisure reading “worthwhile.” when i was younger, i would read almost in­discriminately: everything — every sug­gestion, every remotely interesting cover, every book that was being turned into a movie — got read. i wasn’t as concerned with whether or not it was good because i knew within a day or two i’d be onto the next one. it meant i read a lot of truly ter­rible books, but it also meant that i could try a bit of everything, including finding treasures hidden as books i wouldn’t be brave enough to pick up now. 
now, every book i read needs to be the “right” one, whether it’s won a ton of awards, received a lot of hype or is from a famous author i already know i enjoy. and i do enjoy most of the books i read for fun now. but i miss having the time to read indiscriminately, to choose weird, experimental, quirky literature i’d never pick up now. i’m reading great books, but in the process i’m afraid i’m missing out on good ones. 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Home Alone 7: An elegy in prose 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 
you are at your parents’ house. it is the last week of winter break. perhaps you live in the chicagoland area, or perhaps you live somewhere else entirely. somehow, it is invariably cold. 
class has started again for the K-8 kids. The usual yellow buses load lines of shuffling students and de­part like trains on pre-aligned paths. you see them out your window. with them go younger siblings, neighborhood kids — no one left to babysit now. 
work has reconvened for employees of both pri­vate and public firms. caravans of coupes and suvs pack highways and boulevards, lurching forward like the interior gears of a clock. you see them on Tv. Fathers, mothers, older siblings, even the gray-haired man down the block are all called into action. 
state schools are back in session, and collegiate bowl season is largely over by now. Translation: Friends from grade school and high school are away, and there is little left for entertainment. so you sit at your kitchen table, or in bed or on the living room sofa, looking through a screen at the lives of others. 
you are, for the moment, alone. 
perhaps you watch reruns of old sitcoms. perhaps you browse popular websites and are unwillingly confronted with the steamiest of celebrity news. These are not lives that matter to you. They do not strike close to home. 
at first glance, not much has changed here. The coats are on their hooks. The books are on their shelves. The fridge yields nothing new when repeat­edly checked. 
yet, the house is not as you left it. in your absence, the space has taken on a different hue. only in soli­tude do you realize these things: maybe a wall has been repainted, a childhood toy discarded, a paint­ing hung slightly askew ... how a few months can change a world. 
another house might be going up in your neigh­borhood. perhaps a store has changed names. and what became of that robin’s nest in the tree out back or the anthill in the cracks of the sidewalk? but such difference in appearance does not perturb you as much as your own difference in perception does. something seems off about this house. it could be some awkward photograph that no longer amuses you or a favorite cereal that, while physically unal­tered, now tastes dull. you’re experiencing it differ­ently. it doesn’t seem like your home anymore. it’s just the house where your parents live. 

a deep estrangement rises from this change of ownership, gradually, steadily — a kind of letting-go. The toys in the attic belong to a younger child who lives nowhere now. years ago, in all likelihood, this space was someone else’s home. in half a cen­tury, a new owner will move in, hang the keys by the door and repurpose your old bedroom as a private study. 
you are watching a movie on your parents’ Tv. it’s getting late. The movie is older than you are. a young blonde boy is rigging his home with impro­vised traps and gags, protecting it from what is for­eign and profane. you do not fashion a minefield out of micromachines and christmas ornaments. you have no burglars to fend off. your family has not left you for paris in a rush. no sensational heist broods here. yet this house without doubt needs safeguard­ing. all about, the woodwork creaks with the foot­falls of a stranger. 
soon your family will be home. you’ll exchange stories from your day’s hours out in all that cold. perhaps a fire will be lit. The place will come alive with significances. say your father has his classic lounge chair. say your mother has her nightly ice cream. Then, in a few days’ time, you’ll leave, off to snow-covered horizons — set to return to a place that cannot fail to change. 
and you will come to learn the elegy does not la­ment aloneness but the discovery in that aloneness of your eventual and more permanent exodus, in which home will be peeled from the house’s wall like worn paint, following you out into the world like the migrant you are. 
Charlie Ducey waxes poetic without warrant, but who needs a warrant to write poetry? He studies English and German and is in his final year at Notre Dame. Please direct fan art and gripes to cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


mischaracterizing positions: ‘The war on women’ 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

of the many metaphorical political wars that have been launched in recent years, few have stirred as much passion as the alleged “war on women.” often in furtherance of creating a politi­cal divide, the political left’s attack on conserva­tives’ lack of support for the liberal policy agenda has used anything from the wage gap to armed military invasions. while there are too many is­sues with too many explanations to detail over the course of this article, reproductive rights, including contraception and abortions, have become espe­cially incendiary. 
liberals aim to paint a picture of regression in terms of women’s rights and equality, concluding that conservative backed pro-life policies will rel­egate women to second-class citizens. This tactic is nothing new. in 2011, house minority leader nancy pelosi accused republican lawmakers of let­ting women “die on the floor” by putting a bill up for vote in the house that would limit the circum­stances under which a woman could have an abor­tion. however, this purported “war” is certainly not an act of aggression directed at women. This is in­stead a clash of social, ethical and religious values with far-reaching implications. 
For example, liberals were up in arms following the supreme court’s decision to allow religious exceptions to the affordable care act mandate requiring employers to provide access to birth con­trol to its employees. The left argued this decision would inhibit women’s right to birth control. yet the reasoning underlying the supreme court’s de­cision is based strictly on religious grounds, not on any finding concerning the scope of reproductive rights. conservatives do not want employers to be legally compelled to pay for something that violates their personal religious beliefs, which obamacare unfortunately mandates. The supreme court has endorsed this view. 
republican lawmakers may have found a better alternative to increase access to birth control while preserving constitutionally recognized religious freedoms. republican senators cory gardner of colorado and Kelly ayotte of new hampshire intro­duced legislation in 2015 that attempted to increase access to over-the-counter birth control options and reduce the overall cost of insurance to employ­ers who provide contraception. The liberal counter to this legislation was that under the bill, many women would not be able to afford birth control because their access comes from the money the in­surance companies provide. but the proposed leg­islation was not designed to impair women’s rights. rather, it was directed to stop the violation of em­ployers’ religious freedoms as recognized by the nation’s highest court. while some conservatives may well be opposed to birth control, no legislator is attempting to deny access to birth control merely because he or she personally opposes the practice. There is a now-confirmed constitutional right of employers to not be compelled to provide a service if doing so violates their religious freedoms. 
a further example of the far left’s mischaracter­ization of opposing viewpoints relates to the cur­rent controversy surrounding planned parenthood. social conservatives are opposed to further fund­ing planned parenthood, not because of a desire to eliminate access to cancer screenings and sTi treatments, but because planned parenthood per­forms over 300,000 abortions annually, provides over 2.1 million reversible contraception kits per year and, most notably, has confirmed that it sells the body parts of aborted babies for profit. perhaps 

u.s. representative Tim walberg of michigan said it best: “no matter what party you belong to, we should all agree that taxpayer dollars should not be used for harvesting baby parts for profit.” men and women across the political spectrum are jus­tifiably disgusted by certain practices of planned parenthood. Though the liberal left may attempt to mischaracterize this national revulsion as part of a “war on women,” the fact remains that many of the core values of this organization directly clash with the fundamental moral principle held by the majority of americans that any life is a life to be valued. The reaction to the planned parenthood practices isn’t an attack on women; it simply recog­nizes the dignity of human life. 
There are obviously a multitude of issues in­volved in this so-called “war on women.” Though some of the positions taken by those such as donald Trump do not help my argument, the clash is not what the liberal left, including hillary clinton, makes it out to be. ms. clinton formulates a great sound bite by framing the argument as a woman’s “right to her own body.” The problem is that no conservative is trying to take that right from her. rather, conservatives are attempting to vest that right where it belongs, strictly with the individual. we need to tone down the political rhetoric and debate the opposing core value posi­tions rather than avoiding meaningful dialogue by mischaracterizing positions as a “war on women.” 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall,  studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business  economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

In response to ‘Cut Notre Dame’s ties to Bill Cosby’ 
after reading the viewpoint piece titled “cut notre dame’s ties to bill cosby,” i was shocked and disappointed that the authors did not do their research. Their opinions were expressed solely on hearsay and limited facts. your university prides itself on integrity, so i thought. 
when did peer pressure become more important than someone’s life? it’s disappointing to see young adults and students entering into society with one-sided viewpoints. 
your opening statement is inaccurate: you wrote, “mr. cosby angrily responded that a 2.5 is oK if you have a mental disorder.” if i recall correctly, what mr. cosby said is “maybe you have a learning dif­ference,” not disability or disorder but difference. mr. cosby’s late son struggled with dyslexia, so in­sinuating someone has a mental disorder is some­thing i would imagine he would not take lightly. 
The former student you were referring to, dean brown, became a principal for the washington d.c. school system before he passed, so it’s likely what­ever mr. cosby said influenced him more than it embarrassed him. 
one can have a voice and share their own person­al opinions in regards to anything in our society, but sometimes if we are too vocal we are singled out or labeled. it is moments like this that you can use the author’s voice and create a positive impact that makes a difference in the world. in search of the truth, who is brave enough to use a platform to seek and share the truth? 
“one of the most sacred principles in the american criminal justice system is holding that a defendant is innocent until proven guilty.” yet your piece is convicting without due process. 
one of bill cosby’s attorneys who sat in on the deposition released a statement to Fordham university after it rescinded its honorary degree, 

“nothing in the single deposition recently re­leased lends any support to, much less “confirms,” any such allegations. nothing in his testimony admits to any nonconsensual sexual contact with any woman whatsoever. as you know, mr. cosby has been convicted of no crime and has steadfastly maintained his innocence. and yet the trustees felt entitled to sit in judgment and to announce that judgment with rhetorical flourish that is itself be­yond the pale and worthy of condemnation.” 
it seems The observer isn’t observing facts. The two authors try discovering the truth and using this platform to tell it, yet they allowed the mass media to distort feelings from facts. 
Kia S. Wilson 
creative director star cloud media group 


The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene writer 
it’s been an hour since smallpools closed their saturday night set at legends, and my ears are still ringing. by the time you read this, they will probably still be ringing. That’s how electric this four-man group out of los angeles is. 
i was definitely not the only one who went to the concert knowing little about smallpools: i only recognized “dreaming” as “that song from FiFa” and was surrounded by students admitting they had never given their 2015 album “loveTap!” a full listen. 
surprisingly, the first band who came out with a screaming guitar and wailing vocals was not, in fact, smallpools. it was nashville-based apollo lTd, who opened the show with some songs from their apt­ly titled ep, “ep.” 
despite the vibrancy of their set, apollo lTd struggled to draw more than some apathetic head bobs from the audience. The tepid response probably had more to do with the performance than the band itself: The apollo lTd that pounded out some relatively unimpressive rock­ers sounded completely different from the apollo lTd of the recording studio. The studio version had a much smoother sound, vaguely reminiscent of Twenty one pilots. 
suffice to say, by the time that smallpools actually walked on stage af­ter a 20-minute set break, the crowd seemed to be applauding as much out of relief as adulation. it didn’t take long for the headliner to reinject energy into the building. 
For the uninitiated like myself, smallpools is best known for their pop-alternative jams: Think an airier neon Trees, a band hard to listen to with­out moving around. The band admit­tedly draws a lot of inspiration from The Killers, even going so far as to mix in a few lines from “human” into their sonically similar song “Karaoke” during saturday night’s performance. 
given how smallpools is still in its in­fancy (the band was formed in 2013), it’s impressive just how many of the at­tendees at the concert were very clearly smallpools fans. “dreaming” was the band’s 2013 debut single, featured on the “FiFa 14” soundtrack. The band also had music on the season five premiere of “vampire diaries” and a promotion­al video for snapchat. These successes and the subsequent self-titled ep helped smallpools shoot out of the gate. 
They released their first album, “loveTap!,” in march 2015 and spent the rest of the year touring around the world. 

That gave saturday’s concert some spe­cial significance for the band, with lead vocalist sean scanlon thanking every­one in attendance for bringing the band out of “hibernation” after a month-long break since wrapping up their tour in Tokyo. 
if they felt rusty, though, it didn’t show. 
with the exception of a few slower songs, including a cover of a track from the movie “drive” and a crowd-pleasing acoustic mash-up of major lazer’s “lean on” and bill withers’ “lean on me,” the set list was energetic from start to finish. The crowd really got going for the dance floor anthem “american love” and the “oh”-filled “mason Jar,” one of the band’s most popular songs on youTube. 
if you’re looking to get into smallpools, check out the fist pump-inducing “street Fight.” honestly, i didn’t hear any true duds saturday (at least among their original songs), so it would be hard to go wrong sampling any of the songs on their album. That being said, as someone who was really listening to smallpools for the first time ever, most of their songs were hard to tell apart, and almost all of them seemed designed to get stuck in your head. basically, if you like one song, chances are you’ll enjoy the rest of them. The challenge for smallpools with their next album will be to make sure that it’s different enough to be worth a second listen. 
but based on saturday’s performance, it’s hard not to be rooting for them. scanlon made sure to keep the crowd engaged all night, frequently exclaiming “notre dame!” to excited cheers, as well as endearingly making references to the men’s basketball victory over duke. as the concert was winding down, he even took a mid-song stroll through the crowd. it was the sort of high-energy, intimate performance that is hard to pull off with more widely known bands, but is so much fun to be a part of. The only disappoint­ing aspect of the show was the fact that smallpools waited to play their most popular song, “dreaming,” until the very end of the concert. They probably intend­ed it to be a walk-off home run, but it felt more like a tease: get the most anticipat­ed song of the night and then leave. 
For fans who stuck around, though, the band was cool enough to do a quick meet­and-greet. smallpools is clearly looking to build up a relationship with their fans, and, ultimately, it’s that personable na­ture that makes you hope they’ll finally beat out “killer whales in small pools” for google supremacy once and for all. 
Contact Matthew Macke at  mmacke@nd.edu 
The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By ROBERT WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

“The revenant” is the epitome of a beautiful disas­ter. From incredibly stunning landscape shots to the terrifyingly realistic bear-mauling scene, the best picture oscar hopeful provides an acute look into how extremely powerful mother nature can be. in its en­tirety, “The revenant” is a roller coaster, catapulting the viewer into american wilderness explorer hugh glass’ (leonardo dicaprio) seemingly endless fight for survival and revenge. The stark tone immediately established during a violent battle between the native american arikara tribe and a group of frontiersmen is carried throughout the rest of alejandro gonzález iñárritu’s masterpiece. each gripping scene masters astonishing cinematic feats and conveys a surreally accurate representation of wilderness survival. 
before considering the acting or storyline of the film, emmanuel lubezki’s captivating cinematographic work is enough to win “The revenant” an academy award. shooting the film in only natural light at sev­eral rough terrain locations in canada, montana and argentina proved to be a challenge lubezki met and 
Adam Ramos 
scene writer 

i don’t think my folks will ever give up trying to recre­ate the unbridled exuberance of christmas morning from my family’s younger years. don’t get me wrong, i love christmas, but lord (happy belated birthday by the way) knows running down the stairs at 7 a.m. is just not hap­pening when sleeping until 11 a.m. is a viable alternative. material things just don’t get me as jazzed up as they used to, despite the colorful wrapping. not to get all preachy here, but unless i explicitly need something, most of the time i’d be just as happy if the money wasn’t spent on my behalf. yet, this year i was pleasantly surprised by an un­expected gift — a record player. bear with me. 
some background: i love music. listening to it, talk­ing about it, reading about it, writing about it — and thus music has always been an easy area for my parents dur­ing gift-giving season. so upon unwrapping the record player, i wasn’t surprised, but i certainly wasn’t expecting it. my mind immediately conjured up images of hipsters scoffing at the ipod-donning plebes while perusing the catalog of vintage records offered at the urban outfitters on eddy street — and i cringed at the thought. Thankfully, my venture into music’s past wasn’t anywhere near as conquered with full force, creating a fluid, magnificent and cohesive piece of artwork that perfectly comple­ments iñárritu’s cinematic vision. coming off two best cinematography oscar wins for his work in “gravity” and “birdman,” lubezki is certainly in line to snag the trophy for a third consecutive year. 
Then there’s leonardo dicaprio. with a large major­ity of people hoping for dicaprio’s long-overdue oscar win for best actor (while some haters are praying for another upset), this guy had some high expectations to meet. not only did he meet these expectations, but dicaprio pushed boundaries and redefined the expec­tations of acting. There has been a significant amount of criticism toward dicaprio due to the small amount of dialogue throughout the film; however, his emo­tionally invigorating performance and portrayal of near-death experiences stand in no competition to any well-delivered lines in other films from this past year. For a good portion of the film following the bear-maul­ing, dicaprio can barely move nor speak, relying on his eyes, grunts and screams to seamlessly master the depiction of a complex character. watching him enter nearly frozen rivers, sleep inside animal carcasses, consume an actual raw bison liver (as a vegetarian, no 
condescending, and after a pleasant afternoon saturated with ‘70s and ‘80s jams, i realized what an awesome gift i had received. 
after an hour of digging through dusty boxes in the at­tic, my dad and i exhumed a box full of old records from my father’s dJ days. comprising some of my pop’s es­sential rotations, the collection contained a nice variety of artists, from culture club to bob marley to minnie riperton. The first thing i noticed was the artwork and presentation. nowadays i barely even notice album art, which makes sense as just about all i see is the little al­bum cover in the corner of my spotify screen. in the past, albums needed to catch eyes, producing stunning visu­als capturing unique cultural snapshots — something i immediately noticed just from lugging the box of records down the stairs. 
one by one, my dad excitedly played each record, pro­claiming some derivative of “This was all we listened to in college” each time he unearthed a new one. There was something curiously satisfying about the whole process — and it really is a process. between carefully unsheathing the record, placing it on the player and cor­rectly aligning the needle, i really began to gain a sense of excitement as the music began to hum. such a process produced a giddy thrill as the opening line to Talking heads’ “burning down The house” spurted out — a thrill less) and survive a bear attack sets the actor apart from any other actor or role in cinematic history. 

“The revenant” is a fairly simple story of revenge and survival. hugh glass is constantly pushed to the brink of death in his search for John Fitzgerald (Tom hardy), his son’s killer. identifying the climax of the film is a near impossible task, as every moment brings a new life-threatening obstacle that glass overcomes by doing anything and everything to survive. 
although the film is based on true events, some deadly situations do seem somewhat implausible, forc­ing the viewer to question how the hell glass continues to survive. in the final moments of the film, it’s hard to even picture what a “happy ending” could potentially look like, as it is quite possibly the furthest thing from a happy movie. regardless, “The revenant” is a once-in­a-lifetime experience that will leave you feeling emo­tionally and physically drained. This movie is not for the faint of heart, and you will not be able to sit still for the entirety of the 2 hour and 36 minute run, but it is a work of art and a groundbreaking feat that will be sure to make a lasting impact on cinema. 
Contact Robert Wozniak at rwozniak@nd.edu 
which remained as i boogied in my christmas jammies all around the kitchen. 
i couldn’t help but listen to the entire album, which is surprising because between my millennially-corrupted mindset and almost-eradicated attention span, i can hardly get through a full album nowadays without switch­ing to a new artist. but can you blame me? with seemingly endless music at my fingertips via spotify, i’m like a kid in a candy store overwhelmed by the options. records are simpler. by the time the record starts spinning, one song doesn’t cut it; i ended up listening to whole albums, allow­ing for a more holistic appreciation for the record. in our digital music consumption, we have a created a “singles” culture, and i am only now beginning to understand the negative implications. 
whether or not my new record player will make it with me on my 10-hour drive back to the bend is still up in the air, but either way i am very grateful. getting a look into my dad’s past and his “pre-me” musical tastes was eye opening and awesome. bridging the age gap with music is an experience i aim to share with future generations, no matter how music consumption continues to develop. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu                          
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 
FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 








make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Manning’s legacy rides on next week 
Michael Ivey 
sports editor 
at halftime of sunday’s aFc divisional playoff game against pittsburgh, denver found itself trailing, 10-9. all the broncos’ points had come from field goals, and their offense, led by veteran quarterback peyton manning, looked sloppy. sure, many of his receivers kept dropping passes, but manning’s throws were often off target, and the broncos had to rely on their running game to get things going. many football fans were saying to themselves, “here we go again.” 
The future hall of Famer’s career has consistently been marred by playoff failure. in manning’s 18-year nFl ca­reer, he only has one super bowl ring. by comparison, his arch nemesis, new england’s Tom brady, has won four. manning-led teams have lost a number of close play­off games, too. manning has developed a reputation as a good quarterback who can never win in big games. of the 14 years he’s been in playoffs, manning’s teams have lost the first game nine times, including last year when the broncos were ousted from the divisional round by manning’s old team, indianapolis. 
That loss led to several coaching changes for the broncos. The day after the loss, the broncos announced they had mutually parted ways with head coach John Fox, and Fox took many of his assistant coaches with him. many people wondered how this would affect manning and his future with the broncos. 
a week later, the broncos announced they had hired gary Kubiak as the team’s new head coach. not long af­ter, they hired rick dennison as their new offensive coor­dinator. many wondered how effective manning would be learning a new offense that centered on running the ball. 
The 2015 season started out great for manning and the broncos. despite signs of aging, manning led denver to a 7-0 start. but in a nov. 15 loss to Kansas city, manning hurt his shoulder and was replaced by backup brock osweiler. osweiler proceeded to lead the broncos to wins over the bears, patriots and chargers in his first three starts. The bronco offense looked significantly better under osweiler, and many football writers and fans be­lieved the broncos needed to sit manning and let osweiler start for the rest of the sea­son. others worried this would tarnish manning’s legacy because if the broncos made a deep playoff run, it wouldn’t have been manning who led him there. 
during the broncos last game of the regular season, however, the broncos of­fense was struggling under osweiler. at the beginning of the third quarter, with his team down 13-7, manning en­tered the game and received a standing ovation from the home crowd. his entry seemed to rejuvenate the broncos, who drove down the field and scored a touchdown on manning’s first drive. The broncos ended up winning the game 27-20 against san diego and clinching the top seed in the aFc playoffs. 
which brings us back to sunday’s game. 
Trailing by one point with just under ten minutes left in the game, manning en­gineered a 14-play, 65-yard touchdown drive that took 
6:52 off the clock and then found demaryius Thomas for successful two-point conversion attempt to put the broncos up seven points with three minutes left in the game. The denver defense held, and the broncos won the game to advance to the aFc championship game against — who else — his rival brady and the patriots, with a trip to the super bowl on the line. 
with all the shifts in per­ception of him over the last year, manning’s entire legacy now could be determined by the next game he plays. 
no pressure, peyton. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NFL | panThers 31, seahawKs 24 

panthers build 31-0 lead, hold on to beat seahawks 
Associated Press 
Four games into his play­off career, cam newton recognizes the key element to success. he calls it “big mo,” and there couldn’t have been a better example than carolina’s 31-24 victory over seattle on sunday. 
emphatically backing up their superb regular season with one of the most domi­nating halves in football history, the panthers then hung on in the face of a fu­rious seahawks rally before surviving. 
“The playoffs bring out more than any other time the impact of ‘big mo,’” newton said after carolina (16-1) moved into nFc title game, which they will host next sunday against arizona (13­3). “momentum. 
“we can’t wait for no one to make plays for us.” 
The panthers, winners of 12 straight at home, made all the right plays in building a 31-0 lead, then were dominated by the two-time defending nFc champs in the second half. so if carolina wins its first nFl championship, it can credit the lesson learned from the seahawks (11-7). 
“we have to find a way to complete a full game of foot­ball,” the all-pro quarterback added. “we have been known to take our foot off the throt­tle and we have to find that killer instinct.” 
newton noted how play­ers, coaches and even the fans were feeling the pres­sure in the final 30 minutes as seattle staged a relentless comeback. 
“it was a tale of execution. we needed a little more of that in the second half. you just have to find ways to get your groove back on.” 
definitely. 
“That’s what this game is going to teach us,” said all-pro linebacker luke Kuechly, who returned a first-quarter interception for a touch­down. “no matter how good you play in the first half, the second half is just as impor­tant. it’s crazy - you go into these games and you expect it to be like this, so it wasn’t 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL ­PRIME LOCATION: 3BR house next to Eddy Street Commons is available for commencement weekend. Walk to everything. Email nd-house@sbcglob­al.net for details and contact number. 

a surprise for us. but you’ve got to be locked in the whole game. “ 
Jonathan stewart, return­ing from a foot injury, scored two touchdowns after jump-starting the panthers with a 59-yard sprint on their first play. newton threw for a touchdown. 
Then, seattle showed its pedigree and climbed back within seven points. 
“we made a mess of it in the first half,” seahawks coach pete carroll said. “we look at this game as a microcosm of the season. we struggled so much early in the season to get going, and it took us a long time. when we finally did, we caught fire, and got rolling. everyone in here just feels like we ran out of time.” 
not before they got two touchdowns in the first 7:20 of the third quarter. Finally with time to throw, russell wilson hit Jermaine Kearse for a 13-yard score and rook­ie Tyler lockett for 33 yards, making it 31-14 — and mak­ing the full house at bank of america stadium unnerved. 
when the seahawks suc­ceeded on a fake punt from their 23, an epic comeback seemed possible. That drive stalled, but with carolina’s offense sputtering, seattle later got closer on Kearse’s 3-yard catch of a jump ball against all-pro cornerback Josh norman. 
with newton waving the crowd into frenzied cheers on the sideline, the panthers’ defense couldn’t stop a 60­yard drive capped by steven hauschka’s 36-yard field goal with 1:12 remaining. 
at 31-24, all-pro lineback­er Thomas davis hauled in hauschka’s onside kick — and charlotte could breathe again. 
“in the second half, we had to go for it,” wilson said. “we had to come out swinging. That was our mentality, and we did a great job of that. “ 
This will be the panthers’ fourth trip to the nFc cham­pionship game, and their first time as host. 
carolina, which scored an nFl-best 500 points this sea­son, stormed into the lead thanks to stewart. he burst through the middle on the first snap and nearly outran everyone, getting tackled at the seattle 16 by richard sherman. Three plays later, stewart surged into the end zone. 
his return from a foot inju­ry that cost him three games was far more distinguished than marshawn lynch’s comeback from a two-month absence (abdominal sur­gery). lynch, who finished with 20 yards on six carries, was nailed in the backfield for a 3-yard loss on his first touch, then turned around late for wilson’s pass over the middle under pressure from Kawann short. 
Kuechly was far more alert, grabbing the interception and sprinting 14 yards to make it 14-0 only 3 1/2 min­utes in. 
The scoring barrage con­tinued as stewart leaped in from the 1 to make it 21-0. 
wilson was picked off under relentless pressure again, this time by cortland Finnegan at the seattle 29. graham gano’s 48-yard field goal made it 24-0. greg olsen’s spectacular 19-yard reaching catch over double coverage made it 31-0. 
but that ended the on­slaught, and the seahawks who returned for the second half were an entirely different team, energetic and efficient. 
wilson, who was sacked five times, made some big throws, particularly to Kearse, who had 11 catches for 110 yards. wilson went 31 for 48 for 366 yards, but the early turnovers 
— seattle had an nFc-low 16 in the regular season — and spotty defense were too much to overcome. 
NOTES: 
stewart finished with 106 yards on 19 carries and ex­tended carolina’s string of 100-yard rushing games to 28 and made it 21-0. seattle hadn’t allowed a 100-yard rusher in 27 games. ... The biggest nFl halftime lead was in 1991, when buffalo was up 41-3 on the los angeles raiders. ... seattle lost de cliff avril (neck) and lT russell okung (shoulder). 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Home for Rent, avail. 2016-2017 
PERSONAL 

Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@ Want a pro to help edit/polish gmail.com your dissertation or other research 
paper? Utilize an experienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | The observer 




TRACK & FIELD 

Shivers nearly sets record 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
notre dame participated in a dual meet against wisconsin this past saturday to get back into the swing of competition after winter break, and although the meet re­sulted in losses for both the men’s and women’s teams, irish head coach alan Turner said winning was not the primary objective of the day. 
“of course we would like to win, but if i was trying to win the meet, i would have entered my whole entire team, and that’s not what i did,” Turner said. “none of our distance people were there, and the people that we did bring were not necessarily our top entrants. i just wanted to get everyone acclimated back to competing again after that long break.” 
despite the overall losses, the day was filled with several im­pressive individual performanc­es, including a personal best for junior anthony shivers in the weight throw. 
“he was awesome,” Turner said of shivers. “he had another per­sonal best of 19.6 meters, which is only .09 meters off of our school record. usually with the first meet back from the christmas break after a long hiatus of com­peting, you usually don’t see marks that good.” 

Turner said he believes shivers’s performance is the be­ginning of a strong rest of the season. 
“he should definitely break the school record before the year is out,” Turner said. 
Turner credited the junior’s re­newed focus as the main reason for his recent success. 
“he was a very talented ath­lete coming out of high school, but he just hadn’t realized his potential,” Turner said. “but this year he is all in. he’s doing all the little things well. now that he’s a lot more focused, it’s now starting to manifest itself and sharpen his performance.” 
The irish posted strong perfor­mances in the women’s 200- and 400-meter sprints as well, sweep­ing first, second and third place in both races. senior margaret bamgbose secured first place for the irish in the 200-meter, fin­ishing in 24.79 seconds, while sophomore parker english and freshman Kyla lewis were not far behind with times of 24.88 and 25.20, respectively. Turner said he was particularly excited about the performances of english and lewis. 
“parker english and Kyla lewis were running very well in the early part of the race, and actu­ally margaret had to overtake those two in the last 50 meters of the race to pull out the vic­tory,” Turner said. “To see a fresh­man and sophomore competing against margaret, who [is] a four-time first-team all-american, i was pretty excited to see that.” 
Turner said he was also proud of bamgbose, and he added he has grown used to her standout performances. 
“we expected a very good day from margaret because that’s just what she does for us. she’s pretty steady all the time,” Turner said. 
although the team had mo­ments of excellence, Turner said he left the meet disappointed with the team’s overall effort. 
“There were a couple of our athletes who i felt could have competed a little bit better, and i told the team after the meet that each and every time you put the monogram on your chest, you’re all out,” Turner said. “you’re representing not only this team, you’re representing the university, you’re representing your hometown, you’re repre­senting your parents, so we need to get that solid effort.” 
The irish will compete again saturday in the notre dame invitational at loftus sports center. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
i think we could work on.” 
mcgraw said she did not think the irish would have the same trouble with pace against Tennessee, but she did praise the volunteers’ defense, which ranks 59th in the nation in points allowed per game and 41st in turnovers forced, a particular area of concern for notre dame, she said. 
“They’re athletic enough to get up and guard the ball and pressure the ball. They can re­ally extend things, they’ve got good length,” mcgraw said. “They can really pressure, so we’re going to take care of the ball a lot better than we’ve been doing. we had a couple games there where we had back-to-back games with sev­en turnovers, so that was great for us, but now we’re back turning it over 16, 17 times a game, so i think controlling the ball is something we defi­nitely we have to do better.” 
Tennessee presents another challenge to notre dame with its size, mcgraw said. among all players who play 10 or more minutes per game, the volunteers are on average two inches taller than the irish, and four of their starters stand six feet or more, compared to just two for notre dame. 
That height differential will create multiple matchup problems, mcgraw said, with perhaps the biggest coming against Tennessee redshirt sophomore guard diamond deshields. deshields stands 6-foot-1 and leads the volunteers in points, assists and steals on the season. she also ranks second on the team in blocks and third in rebounds. 
“she’s really hard to guard. i don’t think there’s any one way to defend her,” mcgraw said of deshields. “we’re go­ing to have to try a lot of dif­ferent things. and we don’t have great matchups because of her size. she’s just a really big guard who creates a lot of problems for the defense. she’s so talented.” 
instead, notre dame will rely on a rotation of players, as it has done all season. graduate student guard madison cable leads the team with 14.7 points per game, but she is just one of four irish players to average 10 or more points per game, with three others chipping in seven or more per contest. 
monday’s game will be the first of three straight at home for notre dame, its longest stretch at purcell pavilion left in the season. The volunteers and the irish are scheduled to tip off at 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
FENCING 

irish sweep decicco duals 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
notre dame swept the strip in the third annual decicco duals at home this past weekend. 
both irish men’s and women’s teams went undefeated through the two-day meet, which fea­tured 14 opposing teams, both varsity and club. 
“i think all the kids held their serve and did really well,” irish coach gia Kvaratskhelia said. “we got what we anticipated. most importantly, we needed to be focused, and the team was really focused.” 
The team began its first day with a bye and six rounds of bouts, beating detroit, wayne state, sacred heart, new Jersey institute of Technology, lawrence and Florida’s club team. The irish women were perfect individually against detroit, defeating the Titans 27-0. 
sacred heart proved to be the most difficult challenge for the women’s team, as the irish lost three bouts in sabre and four bouts in epee in the fourth round. but overall, senior epee catherine lee, who finished her weekend 1-2, said her team was unfazed. 
“women’s epee knew what to expect, and there weren’t a lot of surprises,” lee said. “you have a really hard time predicting what is going to happen each bout. but everyone was very collected and calm.” 

lee was one of seven seniors honored late saturday morning at the senior day recognition ceremony, which also includ­ed men’s sabre John hallsten and epees John poremski and garrett mcgrath and women’s sabre victoria sluka and foils sarah Followill and nicole mcKee. Kvaratskhelia praised the accomplishments of this senior class following the day’s bouts. 
“This senior class was twice in the top-three nationally,” Kvaratskhelia said. “They were runners-up three years ago and last year second-place finishers. They have brought so much dy­namic success for this program. it will be hard to replace them.” 
more non-starters and un­derclassmen were able to com­pete sunday, when the irish swept seven club teams from mcKendree, oakland, navy, clemson, indiana, michigan state and michigan. 
“They kept up the intensity really well,” lee said. “it’s re­ally easy to get complacent, but everyone brought their best to the strip repeatedly. it’s re­ally an exercise in self-control, in patience and endurance throughout the day. we’re still figuring out our strengths and weaknesses, but we look for­ward to each tournament one day at a time.” 
The women’s team is cur­rently ranked first in the ncaa, while the men’s team is ranked second behind columbia. The irish will face off against columbia, among other teams, next weekend in their fierc­est competition yet at the nyu/st. John’s invitational. Kvaratskhelia said he learned a lot this weekend from his team’s performance regarding the up­coming meet. 
“This weekend was very im­portant in terms of the cohe­siveness of the team and the chemistry,” Kvaratskhelia said. “it was a kind of warmup for us to see what we can work on this week in order to be ready for that most important tourna­ment. [The nyu tournament] is the strongest possible duals meet for us.” 
The irish will travel to Queens, new york, to take the strip against columbia, nyu, st. John’s and other teams be­ginning saturday. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
of the series. 
Friday’s game quickly set the tone for what would be an explo­sive weekend. The irish opened scoring just a few minutes into the contest, as sophomore cen­ter Jake evans found the puck and fed classmate anders bjork in the high slot. bjork promptly put the puck over the glove-side shoulder of merrimack sophomore goaltender collin delia for his eighth goal of the season. The irish struggled to find their rhythm in the offen­sive zone for the remainder of the period, though, managing only five shots on the period to merrimack’s 13. 
The visiting team tied the game at one on something of a fluke play, as merrimack junior forward hampus gustafsson’s shot from below the goal line deflected off the back of petersen’s right pad and trick­led into the net. 
The irish tied the game nine minutes later, though, as senior left wing mario lucia scored his fifth goal of the season off a glove-side wrist shot from just outside the crease. 
notre dame asserted itself from there on out. sophomore forward andrew oglevie scored two breakaway goals in a row, including a backhand bid on a breakaway generated off of a lobbed puck from freshman defenseman bobby nardella. oglevie settled the puck at the top of the circle before skat­ing into the crease and slip­ping the puck five-hole past the merrimack goaltender. 
merrimack scored one more goal with four minutes re­maining in the second period to draw within two, but from there on out the warrior offense struggled to clear pucks out of its own defensive end. The irish took advantage of extended of­fensive possession in the third period, netting three goals and pushing the final score to 7-2. 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson praised his team’s offensive production after Friday’s game, paying particular attention to lucia, who scored two goals and added an assist on the weekend. lucia, who has re­cently been moved around the roster in an attempt to rekindle his offensive touch, earned his 100th collegiate point with the irish on Friday night. Jackson spoke highly of his abil­ity to produce when given the opportunity. 
“if we start getting his normal production, then it makes us a much better team,” Jackson said. “That’s why we made the move we did. so far so good.” 
lucia himself admitted he had known about his chance to cross the 100-point mark and gave credit to his linemates past and present for his contin­ued success in the irish offense. 
“it’s cool, definitely, but ob­viously i wouldn’t be there without my linemates, like 
[T.J. Tynan and vincent hinostroza],” lucia said. “i told my brother before the game that i was gonna get it tonight. so it was good to get it out of the way and keep moving forward.” 
saturday’s game featured more of the same, with four irish players notching five goals 
— senior forward sam herr scored twice — while petersen and the irish defense limited merrimack to a single goal on 16 shots. 
after saturday’s game, Jackson lauded his team’s even-ly-spread offensive production, especially during the latter stretch of its 10-game unbeaten streak. 
“a lot of things have been going pretty positively for us,” Jackson said. “The thing that’s making me happy is a lot of guys are executing what we’re trying to do. i think it’s leading to scoring chances and leading to goals.” 
with this weekend’s wins, the irish find themselves third in the hockey east, a point behind rival boston college for second and three points behind umass lowell. 
The irish return to action this coming weekend as they travel to new england for a pair of tilts against conference op­ponent new hampshire. The first game of the series will take place Friday at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 



KELLY VAUGHN | The Observer 

Sophomore left wing Anders Bjork corrals the puck during his team’s 7-2 win over Merrimack on Friday at Compton Family Ice Arena. 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | The observer 



M Bball 
chipped in 25. Jackson and steve vasturia, despite an 86-80 lead with who added 24 and 22 points, 
conTinued From page 16 

time dwindling down, notre respectively. dame let duke storm back and “your two guards have to set 
notre dame (12-5, 3-2 acc) take the lead when sophomore the tone, and i thought those got its first dose of the loud guard grayson allen hit a pair guys kept us confident and cameron atmosphere early af-of free throws with 47.2 seconds poised throughout,” brey said. ter falling behind 8-0. The irish left to make it 88-87. allen fin-notre dame has now won settled down, however, ending ished with 18 points. four out of its last five matchups the half down just 50-45 despite after a three-point play by against the blue devils, and the blue devils shooting 17-of-colson with 35.8 seconds left saturday’s win was a marked 29 from the field. though, the irish held the lead improvement from last year’s 
colson kept his team in it the rest of the game. The blue game — when the irish played early, finishing with 13 points devils would have one more in cameron last season, they in 15 minutes of action dur-chance when notre dame lost by a score of 90-60. ing the first half. he continued missed the front end of a 1-and-“i’m really proud of our his strong play in the second 1 with four seconds left, but group. we weren’t really good half, hitting two key 3-pointers senior forward Zach auguste in this environment last year,” down the stretch for the irish. was able to secure the offensive brey said. “but i thought colson finished the afternoon rebound and the notre dame that the returning guys, they shooting 12-of-19. victory. handled it with great poise. i 
“he’s a warrior,” irish head auguste’s play was a micro-thought demetrius and steve coach mike brey said. “he loves cosm of the game as a whole, just set the tone for us the whole atmospheres like this. That was brey said, in which the irish game and made us believe. we flat-out a clinic what he did to-outrebounded duke, 38-33, got enough defensive stops to day offensively. i hope its some-and had 44 points in the paint get out of there. … [it was a] thing that gets him even more compared to the blue devils’ great day of growth for us early confident.” 20. in the season.” 
still, duke (14-4, 3-2 acc) “it was a great college game,” notre dame returns to would not go away once the brey said. “Two skilled teams the court wednesday when irish took their first lead of going at it. i thought we re-virginia Tech comes to purcell the game in the second half. ally fought, and that’s an area pavilion to take on the irish at Freshman guard luke Kennard where we need to be better.” 7 p.m. led the way for the blue devils in addition to colson’s strong with 30 points, while fresh-play, the irish were also sparked Contact Brian Plamondon at game. sure, they won an ugly man forward brandon ingram by junior guards demetrius bplamond@nd.edu Carson game against georgia Tech on 
conTinued From page 16 
wednesday, but opportunities 

for big wins had evaded them up the program’s first win at three times in the past month cameron indoor stadium in their — against indiana, virginia and eighth try. pittsburgh. 
sophomore forward bonzie They got that big win saturday. colson, who was dropped now notre dame returns to wednesday  from the starting five purcell pavilion this week with against georgia Tech for the first a chance to further separate it-time this season, answered the self from the acc’s bottom tier, bell with 31 points and 11 boards with a visit from virginia Tech in what was easily the best perfor-on wednesday night. if the irish mance of his collegiate career. want to move forward, they can’t 
steve vasturia joined colson in afford to lose games on their setting a career-high, dropping 22 home court. points. when the junior guard has of course, the hokies — like netted 20 or more in his career, it’s everyone in the conference except meant good things for the irish: boston college — are a formi­he had 20 in last year’s overtime dable opponent, boasting a 4-1 tournament win over butler and mark in acc play with their own 21 in last month’s big road win at marquee win, one over no. 13 illinois. virginia. They’re the exact type of 
senior forward Zach auguste team notre dame will be in direct matched a career high with 14 competition with come march, rebounds to continue the upward either for a spot in the field or for a trend. better seed. and notre dame will 
The trio that Jackson and brey have a slew of those games com-were looking toward to step up all ing later in the year, both at home season long finally did saturday. and on the road. and it’s a huge step for these irish but for the first time all year on the pathway back to the prom-saturday, notre dame looked like ised land in college basketball. the team most thought it could 
Throw in good performances be when the season started in from a pair of freshmen, for-november: a crew that’s ruth­ward matt ryan and guard rex lessly efficient offensively, with pflueger, the latter of whom is a group of players that pose a emerging like colson did last matchup problem for opposition January, and you’ve got a team when they’re on; a team led by that looks capable of making a Jackson and backed by former push toward the top of the acc role players who’ve moved into for the first time this season. being highly-productive players 
The idea of notre dame con-in the acc. tinuing to have success this if that irish team shows up season was predicated on seeing wednesday, saturday and the more performances like we did rest of the season, the irish will be saturday at no. 9 duke. Jackson comfortably into the ncaa field was going to have to be a top — and in perfect position to do player, which he was saturday, some damage come march. and the rest of last year’s support­ing cast would have to assume Contact Alex Carson at bigger roles. acarson1@nd.edu 
and make no mistake — this The views expressed in this was an irish squad that didn’t column are those of the author necessarily have positive mo-and not necessarily those of The mentum headed into saturday’s Observer. 




The observer | MONDAY, JANUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 95, duKe 91 
Colson leads Irish in road win over Duke 
Sophomore nets 31 as Irish down No. 9 Duke on road 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
Just last week, sopho­more forward bonzie colson moved from the starting lineup to the bench, telling irish head coach mike brey he would do “whatever we need to do to get a win.” 
whatever it took was a ca-reer-high 31 points and 11 rebounds from colson com­ing off the bench, as notre dame dealt no. 9 duke its second straight loss, 95-91, saturday at cameron indoor stadium in durham, north carolina. 
“after playing here, i feel like we can play anywhere,” colson said of cameron, where the irish had previ­ously lost all seven of their contests. “This is the crazi­est atmosphere in college basketball. we try to find a chip on our shoulders com­ing into every game and found it tonight.” 
see m bball PAGE 15 

Supporting cast finally shows up for Notre Dame 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
if notre dame was always a team ready for a breakout performance this season, it sure hadn’t shown too many glimpses of it. 
while junior guard demetrius Jackson had stepped up his play as one would expect in the ab­sence of the graduated pat connaughton and Jerian grant, most of his return­ing irish teammates hadn’t really followed his lead. Throw in a lack of contribu­tions from notre dame’s bench, and head coach mike brey’s team had the look of one tailing toward the ncaa tournament bubble, one in search of a signature win to impress the commit­tee on selection sunday. 
all that changed in two hours in durham, north carolina, on saturday after­noon, as the irish picked 
see carson PAGE 15 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

nd to host taller volunteer squad 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor in chief 
For its final nonconfer­ence game of the year, no. 3 notre dame hosts a familiar foe monday night at purcell pavilion. 
no. 13 Tennessee and notre dame have played each other every year for the past five seasons. as two of the most storied programs in women’s basketball, the teams have played 25 times before, but as of late, the irish (16-1, 5-0 acc) have dominated the volunteers (11-5, 2-2 sec), taking the past five games by an aver­age margin of 15.8 points. 
This year, both squads en­ter the matchup coming off unexpectedly tough con­tests. This past Thursday, notre dame never trailed but never quite pulled away from boston college on the road, pulling out the 63-50 victory over the eagles, who are currently tied for last place in the acc. 
The volunteers had even more trouble in their last game, turning the ball over 24 times and surrendering an 11-point halftime lead to fall, 64-59, to arkansas, who owns a 7-10 record on the year. 
For irish coach muffet mcgraw, notre dame’s big­gest issue against boston college was its inability to generate the fast-paced of­fense that ranks eighth in the country in points per game. 
“we’re averaging 85 points a game, we scored 63,” she said. “They controlled the pace, they controlled the clock, they held the ball. so we didn’t get as many op­portunities, there weren’t as many possessions in the game. … we could’ve pressed a little bit more … but we settled for their pace, and that was something that 
see w bball PAGE 13 
HOCKEY | nd 7, merrimacK 2; nd 5, merrimacK 1 

Lucia records 100th point in team’s weekend sweep 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
notre dame extended its unbeaten streak to a na­tion-best 10 games saturday night, as the irish completed their sweep of conference foe merrimack with a 5-1 victory at compton Family ice arena. 
The irish (12-4-7, 8-1-2 hockey east) also blew past the warriors (7-11-5, 2-5-5), on Friday in the first game of the weekend series, 7-2. 
The pair of weekend home games marked a high point in the team’s recent offen­sive success, as the irish dominated the score sheet with 12 goals on the week­end. The irish defense and sophomore goaltender cal petersen also posted a suc­cessful weekend, surren­dering only three goals and limiting merrimack to just 16 shots in the second game 
see hocKey PAGE 14 





