the independent to uncover newspaper serving the truth notre dame and and report saint mary’s it accurately 

volume 50, issue 132 | wEdnEsdAy, APril 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
student government issues report 
Student body leadership offers recommendations to Board of Trustees 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
as their final act as student body president, vice presi­dent and chief of staff, bryan ricketts, nidia ruelas and sibonay shewit will submit a report on diversity and inclu­sion at notre dame to the board of trustees on april 28. 
ricketts said the board report is a path forward for increasing diversity and inclusion efforts at notre dame. 
“we took on this project to really talk about the student perspective on diversity and in­clusion, because we really want to leave behind a structure that can really help facilitate a partnership between students, student leaders and adminis­trators,” he said. “i think, in the 
see report PAGE 7 



simple assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
an individual reported multiple instances of sim­ple assault to a university administrator monday, ac­cording to tuesday’s notre dame security police (ndsp) crime log. 
a simple assault is defined as an instance when “a per­son knowingly or intention­ally touches another person in a rude, insolent or angry manner,” university spokes­person dennis brown said in an email. 
this definition is part of indiana code, brown said, 
see assault PAGE 7 



Petition opposes Laetare decision 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
the announcement of the 2016 laetare medal recipi­ents, vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner, came with no lack of controversy in the notre dame community, and one of the strongest re­sponses came in the form of a national petition opposing biden as a candidate for the medal. 
allison gower, the cam­paign manager of the nation­al petition against the laetare medal decision, said the pe­tition was a result of notre dame alumni and catholics expressing their disapproval of biden as an appropriate candidate. the petition was created by sycamore trust, an alumni organization dedicated to preserving and protecting the catholic iden­tity of the university of notre dame. 
“these people are angered because they feel biden goes against many catholic prin­cipals and beliefs the award should uphold,” gower said in an email. “For example, biden does not support pro-life policies and is for same-sex marriage. the petition declares, ‘we should seek to honor those who act to pro­tect human life and dignity, from conception to natural death, who respect true mar­riage and the family,’ which they feel biden does not.” 
bill dempsey, the creator of the petition and member of sycamore trust, said the group rarely proposes peti­tions, but that this was a par­ticularly egregious case that he felt the group needed to combine their voices of pro­test and share their reasons. 
“this action is even more objectionable than was the honoring of president obama, who is not catholic and whose opposition to the 
see petition PAGE 6 


Smashburger to replace Burger King in LaFortune 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 

the 18-year reign of burger King in laFortune student 
center will  soon  come  to  a  
close.  
starting  next  fall,  a  

smashburger will open in its place, notre dame campus dining, student government and student activities Facilities announced early wednesday morning. 
this decision was made in response to student feed­back — gathered through surveys, focus groups and student government’s on-line forum, onward. 
“the student feedback we received throughout the multiple focus group ses­sions beginning in december of 2014 helped us collectively identify what brands fit in the retail dining portfolio,” chris abayasinghe, director of campus dining, said. “… we looked to bring in a new and exciting brand — and 
see laFortune PAGE 6 

nd increases security for commencement ceremony 
Observer Staff Report 

the office of the registrar sent an email to students tuesday morning regard­ing increased security mea­sures for the university’s 171st commencement cere­mony due to the presence of vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner, who will be jointly receiving the laetare medal during the ceremony. 
“For security reasons, stu­dents participating in the university commencement ceremony in the stadium should plan to arrive at the north entrance to the hesburgh library begin­ning at 7:15 a.m.,” the email stated. “every student must be processed through air­port-style security check­points by the u.s. secret service. after being cleared, students will proceed out 
see security PAGE 6 


news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 9 scene PAGE women’s lacrosse PAGE 20 men’s lacrosse PAGE 20 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Kayla mullen                       cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 

post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
What class are you most ready to be done with? 

Barbi Prokup 

Maggie Kane 
junior 
senior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“business stats.” 
“marketing.” 
Elizabeth Maynard 

Mariah Rayburn 
senior 
junior 
le mans hall 
le mans hall 
“experimental writing.” 
“british literature.” 
Katie Waller 

Rebekah Dudevoir 
senior 
sophomore 
opus hall 
holy cross hall 
“philosophy.” 
“Finite math.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rachel o’grady ben padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
courtney becker maureen schweninger Justine wang elizabeth greason 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Happy Mother’s Day Canines and Caffeine Study at the Snite Softball vs. Louisville Marian Procession 
grace tourville austin taliaferro 
Fieldhouse Mall/Clarke Brownson Hall Museum Melissa Cook Stadium and May Crowning Memorial Fountain Courtyard Snite Museum of Art 1 p.m. Grotto 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. The Irish take on 1 p.m. - 2 p.m. 
Corrections 

Mother’s Day A study break with Free study spaces, the Cardinals in a Prayer and song 
the observer regards itself as festivities. dogs and coffee. coffee and snacks. doubleheader. procession. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Physics Colloquium Mindful Meditation Diavolo/Architecture 11th Annual Midwest May Day Movie 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Nieuwland Hall of Coleman-Morse in Motion Conference DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Science Center DeBartolo Performing McKenna Hall Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Arts Center. all day 2 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Discussion on Open to students, 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Presentation on Showing “Black 
we can correct our error. 

astrophysics. faculty and staff. Dance performance. function of proteins. Panthers.” 



Notre Dame Day raises record amount of funds 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
For 29 hours and 18 min­utes, notre dame fans tuned in sunday and monday to watch a live broadcast of student perfor­mances and show their support for student groups by flooding the website with their donations. 
aaron wall, the director of notre dame day, said this year’s number of monetary gifts from donors far surpassed that of last year’s. a total of 21,478 gifts were given this year compared to last year’s 16,550 gifts. in 2014, notre dame day’s inaugural year, 4,400 gifts were received. 
“it’s a year-long process, that’s my full time job. next year starts now,” wall said. “the whole idea of notre dame day stems from the incredible student presence that we have on campus … and the reality when we started this a couple years ago was that all groups on campus are required to do fundraising and the reality is that it’s hard to do that.” 
this year, glee club, saint edward’s hall, the ara parseghian medical research Fund, men’s rowing and Financial aid occupied the top five spots on the leaderboard. glee club held the no. 1 spot with over $33,000. 
wall, a notre dame alum, said he remembers how hard it was as a student to fundraise for dorms or other student groups. he said notre dame day is a day that helps to make this process eas­ier and helps students alleviate some of the financial burden that comes with running various or­ganizations. he said notre dame day helps donors get more “bang for their buck” by redistributing funds back into student groups. 
“we’re not raising money for notre dame, we’re raising it for the students,” wall said. “i’m always just surprised at some of the groups i did not know about before. like the military veterans club that raises a schol­arship for veterans to get mba at notre dame. 
“ask yourself what you love the most and you can support it and use the million dollars that my team has raised ahead of time to multiply it.” 
wall said his decision to attend notre dame 16 years ago was a transformative experience that has motivated him to continue working for the university. 
“what i believe the case is, is that … notre dame is not a per­fect place, it never will be, it’s made up of flawed people and a flawed institution but that’s okay,” wall said. “but there [are] so many good things about this place that people care so deeply about and that’s why people are generous. we do a good job as a family because there are so many good things for you to support.” 
he said as an alum his main goal is to support the students here in any way possible. 
“i know that transformative power of the university and i think as a community we have a great collective sense of that,” wall said. “we can always do bet­ter and invest in our community so that it can continue to thrive and continue to be excellent.” 
this year, notre dame day raised money for 900 campus groups. these groups includ­ed all residence halls, athletic teams, student activities, notre dame alumni associations that give scholarships, academic de­partments and more. last year over half of the $1 million went to student residence halls and organizations and wall said he expects the same thing will hap­pen this year after finalizing the numbers. 
wall said his favorite part of his job is meeting students. he addressed some of the confusion students have with notre dame 
paid advertisement 
day, saying he can understand some of the confusion because when he was a student at notre dame, he never understood the fiscal reality of the university. 
“the point being is that the number one thing i hear from students … is that we’re just raising more money for notre dame and the answer is simply that it isn’t true,” wall said. “it is all about helping students and having the opportunity to raise money for what they care the most about. 
“i support the college republicans just as much as the college democrats. i know you as a group of students are really passionate about your groups and we as the university have to do more and more to support you and this is the fiscal way to do it. this isn’t about raising money for anything but our students.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 




the observer | wEdnEsdAy, APril 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Student starts non­profit benefiting South Sudan 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
in 2005, majak anyieth left his family behind in south sudan to go to Kenya in pursuit of an edu­cation. when he returned eight years later, he found that little had improved in his home coun­try in terms of educational op­portunities. traditional conflicts between neighboring communi­ties were still in full play — but anyieth, having spent eight years in a different country, had real­ized that conflict wasn’t always unavoidable. 
“i learn[ed] from my experi­ence in Kenya that i could live harmoniously with people from other communities … i had been taught otherwise growing up,” anyieth, now a junior at notre dame, said in an email. 
motivated by his experienc­es, anyieth started education bridge, a non-profit aimed at cre­ating educational opportunities and lessening violence in south sudan. 
“education bridge is a non-prof­it organization that is striving to promote peace and education in south sudan,” anyieth said. “we organize week-long seminars for teaching high school students nonviolent conflict resolution skills, teamwork, negotiation and other entrepreneurial skills. in so doing, we also invite students to learn about other communities and challenge many stereotypes that fuel inter-communal con­flict in the country.” 
according to anyieth, in the past education bridge has run conflict resolution seminars as well as a campaign titled “i need peace.” the campaign aimed to “help voice the will of ordinary people who are suffering the con­sequences of a recent conflict that left 2.5 million people displaced and many thousands dead.” 
anyieth noted that illiteracy and “traditional hostilities” have led to many young south sudanese citizens becoming involved in intertribal conflict and other forms of violence. subsequently, education bridge works to confront two major is­sues within the country: educa­tion and violence. 
“south sudan has one of the lowest literacy levels in the world, merely at 27 percent,” anyieth said, “that of girls is even worse at 16 percent. the lack of educa­tion means lack of human capital in the country. no health sys­tems. 51 percent of the country lives below poverty line. because of illiteracy and economic strug­gles, there is a lot of violence in­volving cattle raiding and other disputes. we believe education can open a door for a more peace­ful and prosperous country ... it is for this reason that we are do­ing everything we can to provide educational opportunities for young south sudanese. we hope in so doing, we will not lose an­
other  generation  to  illiteracy,  
poverty and violence.”  
education  bridge  is  cur­ 

rently working on construct­ing a secondary school in bor, south sudan. once completed in January 2017, the school will pro­vide much-needed educational opportunities to 200 students 
“I learn[ed] from my experience in Kenya that I could live harmoniously with people from other communities ... I had been taught otherwise growing up.” 
Majak Anyieth 
junior 
and, anyieth hopes, “inter-com­munal dialogues … providing them with educational oppor­tunities but also with a chance to learn about other communi­ties; deconstructing stereotypes and highlighting our oneness.” the school will employ the non­violent conflict-resolution semi­nars previously developed by education bridge. 
“i was awarded the dalai lama fellowship last year, which pro­vided us with some funding to help start the project,” anyieth said, “right now, we are fundrais­ing the remaining funds to help finish our school construction this summer and to help orga­nize teacher training in prepa­ration for opening in January 2017. we need $15,000 to finish everything.” 
“we have also started part­nering with different organiza­tions like mercy beyond borders, which will be providing schol­arships to some of our students from poor families. though it causes only $300 to attend school for one year, not many families can afford [it]. these scholarships will also be critical to promoting girls’ education, as many families are hesitant to invest in girls’ edu­cation for cultural reasons.” 
students who wish to help can donate unwanted books to education bridge’s book drive, or donate to school-building efforts. 
“i [hope] that through education bridge, i can mobilize a group of like-minded people, to put our time and energy into changing the fate of our commu­nity by creating educational op­portunities and rethinking how we tell our stories to foster a cre­ated of a more united country,” anyieth said. 
Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 

New course examines Cuba and the Church 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 

less than two years after president obama reopened the united states embassy in cuba, Fr. bob pelton, director emeritus for the center for pastoral and social ministry, and dr. peter casarella, professor of theology, are taking advantage of the newly reestablished relations by offering a theology course that will explore the relationship between the catholic church and the socialist regime in cuba. 
casarella said the course will examine the contentious history between cuba and catholicism and the steps being taken to rec­oncile the two. 
“the course looks at the rela­tionship between the socialism of the government and the princi­ples and practices of the catholic church,” casarella said. “when the cuban revolution took place in the 1950s, it was very bad for the church. … since the trip of John paul ii to cuba in the late 1990s, and subsequently with the trips of pope benedict and pope Francis, there’s been a policy of detente, of rapprochement.” 
leaders in the church also played a large role in improv­ing the relationship between the united states and cuba, casarella said, making this course, which includes a trip to havana, cuba, over fall break, possible. 
“by all accounts, including that of president obama, the opening up of the embassy … started with pope Francis and with cardinal Jaime [ortega, the archbishop of havana],” he said. “i’m not say­ing it was completely the role of the church to start this political development, but by all accounts, pope Francis and cardinal Jaime ortega were important spurs in this important, new development in political relationships between the united states and cuba.” 
pelton, who has taught similar courses in the past, said this one will be set apart because of the opportunity these new relations provide to gain a broader under­standing of cuba through the class’s trip to havana. 
“i think it’s going to be differ­ent because of the fact that we’re into an entirely new moment in terms of the warming of rela­tions between the united states and cuba,” pelton said. “i think it’s providing a whole new op­portunity to look at a style of government, which wouldn’t be the choice of most people in this country, but on the other hand, are there not certain things that might be learned from that ex­perience, and what’s the catholic church been doing in the midst of all this?” 
before arriving in havana, the class will first stop in miami, where students will have the op­portunity to engage with cuban­americans, casarella said. 
“the most important devotion to of the cubans is our lady of charity, and we’re going to stop in the shrine of our lady of charity in miami, and if all goes well we’ll have a dialogue with cuban­americans about what their per­spective on cuba is,” he said. “it’s often very different from that of the cubans, so we’re interested in the process of reconciliation between cuban-americans and cubans.” 
according to casarella, stu­dents who applied for the course were required to read and con­verse in spanish to some extent so they would be able to understand untranslated readings and com­municate with cuban students. 
“there [are] many challenges, and the way that we’re going to go about examining them is to study the history of this relation­ship between the church and the regime, even in its anteced­ents and preceding centuries so we’re well-informed when we get there,” he said. “the most impor­tant thing is to develop ties with the people there, and i’m hoping that the students will meet cuban catholic students and can just talk to them.” 
pelton said the course readings and organized events will provide students with the necessary tools to better engage in dialogue with cuban students during the trip to havana. 
“we’re going to set up some oc­casions for our students to mingle with cuban students, and i think we’re going to be able to find good ways to do it. because of some of the reading that they will be asked to do, they’re going to do a far bet­ter job than they would were they just to drop down for a week and just talk to people because we’re going to give them, hopefully, a pretty good background for that and they can fly with it,” he said. 
casarella said he is interested to see how much progress has been made in cuba since he visited the country four years ago. 
“probably we’re going to still en­counter abject poverty in the cen­ter of havana, we’re going to still encounter people who are dis­contented and not sure what’s go­ing to happen with their future,” casarella said. “catholic youth in particular — this from my ex­perience [in cuba] four years ago 
— don’t know if they’ll ever get a job because of the depressed economic conditions, and be­cause once it comes out that you go to church and have an active catholic faith, you’re discriminat­ed against.” 
according to pelton, this course will provide a foundation to start thinking about the future of cuba. 
“it’s not naive reflection, it’s serious reflection,” he said. “the system of cuba is still a very tough system, but they’re extraordinari­ly competent, and musicians and artists, and this is something we haven’t paid much attention to, and we could learn a bit from that. … i think we need to open up and to listen, to learn and to be good people.” 
casarella said he hopes stu­dents emerge from the trip and the course with greater curiosity. 
“you want students to really come out of it thinking, ‘wow, i’ve got to go back and learn more of what’s out there in the world,’” he said. “it’s like getting your feet wet or whetting their appetite. you want them to go and learn more about global catholicism, about latin america, about the church beyond their parish or their lo­cal experience and you want them to see that there’s this con­vergence between talking about international and using our own propaganda.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
paid advertisement paid advertisement 





Petition 
continued From page 1 
church, so far as it was known at the time, was limited to abortion,” dempsey said in an email. “vice president biden’s opposition is broad. he is the highest-ranking catholic pro-choice politi­cian who also supports same-sex marriage, public funding of embryonic stem cell re­search and the obamacare contraception mandate that notre dame is fighting in court. [bishop Kevin c. rhoades] is plainly right in condemning notre dame’s action as scandalous.” 
dempsey said the decision to award biden the medal shows that notre dame does not take seriously the church teachings that biden rejects. 
“notre dame’s action will confirm in their error catholics who share biden’s dissenting views and arm dissenting catholic politi­cians in their opposition to church position,” dempsey said. “besides, what i find incomprehensible is that [university president Fr. John Jenkins] would take this ac­tion knowing full well that it would once again open a breach with notre dame’s bishop and once again bring strife into an occasion that should be one of unalloyed celebration for graduating se­niors and their families.” 
gower said the original goal of the petition was 1,000 signatures. however, as of april 6 the petition has over 2,400 signatures that range from members of the notre dame community to people in foreign countries. 
dempsey said sycamore trust did not propose re­scinding the award because they thought it would be futile. 
“what we hope is that the fellows and trustees will take appropriate action to insure against a repetition and to repair relations with bishop rhoades,” dempsey said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 

laFortune 
continued From page 1 
selected smashburger.” 

the project has been in the works for the past two years, abayasinghe said, and stemmed from stu­dent feedback asking for premium options for burg­ers, chicken and salads on campus. 
construction on smashburger — a national fast-food chain and serves burgers, chicken, salads, sides and milkshakes — will begin immediately following commencement weekend this may. the res­taurant’s opening date is set for the beginning of the new academic year. 
Junior erica tabor, student government direc­tor of communications, said administrators and student leaders considered a variety of alternative restaurants to replace burger King. 
“what i am most proud of — and what i think is a good reflection of the mis­sion of our executive board 
— is that our aim was to accurately represent and serve the student body,” she 
“... our aim was to accurately represent and serve the student body.” 
Erica Tabor 
director of communications 
student government 
said. “i think this is a good beginning to our term and sets a precedence that we are working on improving communication between students and administra­tion, and continuing posi­tive change in our notre dame community.” 
in student feedback, tabor said she noticed a significant number of students asking for new or improved campus din­ing options and hours. 

“we are extremely ex­cited to bring smashburger to laFortune,” she said. “their mission emphasizes fresh, wholesome and nat­ural ingredients, which is moving toward a healthier option of burgers than oth­ers often offered on college campuses.” 
abayasinghe said campus dining is planning to im­plement more changes and initiatives at notre dame in the near future. 
“we’re planning the north dining hall renova­tion, a number of new res­taurants for the duncan student center and renova­tions into select restaurants currently on campus,” he said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 
security 
continued From page 1 
the hesburgh library south exit and will line up in a se­cure area on the library quad.” 
processing students through security is a “meticu­lous and time-intensive pro­cess” the email said. 
“late-arriving students could encounter long lines and may not clear the check­points in time for the start of the ceremony,” the email said. “during the 2001 and 2009 presidential commencement visits, some students underes­timated the time it would take and were not inside the facili­ty when the ceremony began.” 
according to the tentative schedule posted on com­mencement.nd.edu the aca­demic procession into notre dame stadium will begin at 9 
a.m. and the commencement ceremony will begin at 9:30 a.m. 





with moreau because it dem-the sort of lack of communi-a diversity of opinions and away from it is a better way to 
report 

onstrates student perception ty, and try and build it from ideas. serve the students,” he said. 
continued From page 1 

of the course, ruelas said. day one, and that’s why it’s a “this … is such a big part according to ricketts, this 
“in particular, we look at first year experience course,” of the university’s vision and year’s report was “a lot more past 10 – 15 years, there has this and we look at how stu-ruelas said. “the second one mission, and if they claim that straightforward” than the been a substantial increase in dents view the course and is that it’s a very big instru-it’s part of their commitment, report presented by student … the students who are com­
ment for preparing and culti-which they do, it should be re-government last year. mitted to diversity.” 
vating a readiness for conflict flected in the hiring process,” “our recommendations are 
“This ... is such 

and conversations any time at she said. all practical, and they’re all ruelas said she has seen vast 
a big part of the 

notre dame. the third one is ricketts also said there able to be implemented,” he past four years she has spent improvements even over the 
University’s vision that there has been … these needs to be more involve-said. at the university, particularly 
and mission, and defensive cycles, where the ment by the students on bringing awareness to stu­in the efforts initiated by both 
students are saying there are 
dent needs is also important, 
if they claim that 
problems and we’re not seeing 
the administration and the ruelas said. 
“We left room it’s part of their 
solutions.” 
student body. 
“even though we’ve been 
— there’s room 

committment, this cycle starts when the 
“these efforts are ongoing, 

through this whole report-and i think that what we’re 
which they do, it students get angry, ricketts for creativity, writing thing once, and know 
said, and continues when the 
trying to do is just to give [the there’s room what it takes, it’s much harder 
should be reflected 
administrators cannot be 
board] a direction to go, and a for innovation, to follow up — we’re out of of-
in the hiring 
fully forthcoming about the 
way to make it all fit together, fice, but we really want these 
there’s room for 

process.” changes in the course. 
and how we make a unified 

points to hit home,” she said. effort to address a pretty com-
Sibonay Shewit “it’s this feedback loop of forward thinking “we really want the university 
former student body not actually having the con­plex topic,” she said. 
and active to pay attention to what their after receiving signifi­
versation,” ricketts said. “and 
participation students are saying.” 
chief of staff 
i definitely think we’re high-
cant negative feedback on even if their recommenda­
on behalf of the 

the treatment of diversity view its shortcomings and the lighting it, not because of the 
tions are not implemented di­and inclusion in the moreau difficulties … and sometimes, discontent but because of it 
University.” rectly, ruelas said she, shewit First year experience course, it’s difficult to see how steps exemplifies this loop.” 
Nidia Ruelas and ricketts would be happy ricketts said the report ex-are being taken to improve it,” the report also address-
former studen body with the change they enacted plores improvements that she said. es the lack of consideration 
vice president through their administration. can be made in the course’s the administration is aware for diversity within the fac­
“we left room, there’s room curriculum. of these shortcomings, ruelas ulty hiring process at the the president’s oversight for creativity, there’s room 
“we really should look at said, and is truly working to university, shewit said. committee on diversity and for innovation, there’s room moreau as a kind of case study improve them. “so there’s nothing in the inclusion. for forward thinking and ac-that really outlines some of “we know there have been hiring process that talks about “one of the important tive participation on behalf the common themes regard-plenty of effort in trying to or addresses diversity direct-things to understand about of the university,” she said. “i ing diversity and inclusion, get feedback, and improve,” ly, which we thought was im-the president’s oversight think that that is important where there is a sort of mis-ruelas said. “there are just a portant, not only because it’s committee is that Fr. Jenkins and something that should be connection between different lot of pieces to figure out, and an issue … but also because uses the committee as a notre built upon.” kinds of efforts and what stu-that makes it hard to figure it doesn’t address diversity of dame-specific approach in the grand scheme of dents are perceiving,” ruelas out what to do next.” competency, and we’re pre-to diversity and inclusion,” things, the report is a call said. “especially because the report highlights three pared to talk about it and en-ricketts said. “so rather than to see real change from the moreau is brand new this issues that can be addressed gage with it,” shewit said. having just one person in university, shewit said. year, it’s been very ambitious, in future iterations of the shewit said a major goal of charge of diversity, Jenkins “there are efforts from the and we acknowledge that and course, ruelas said. the report is to advocate for told every executive that they students and efforts from the we really appreciate that.” “the first one is that the the creation of a community were responsible for diversity administration and there’s a 
the report addresses issues course is meant to address that was more welcoming to in their department. everyone disconnect right now … and has to hold themselves we want to see that unity in 
paid advertisement 
accountable.” order to move forward,” she 
ricketts said the commit-said. tee would be “more complete with a student perspective.” Contact Rachel O’Grady at 
“and what they can take rogrady@nd.edu 
offense, according to the log 
Assault 
entry. 
continued From page 1 
students did not receive 
an email from the university and differentiates the crime alerting them that a report from other types of assault had been filed because the such as aggravated, domestic crime was not deemed a time-or sexual assault or battery. ly threat based on the infor­
the alleged assault oc-mation available at this time, curred multiple times in a brown said. this is in accor­notre dame residence hall dance with the clery act and was classified as a title iX regulations. 





About myself 
Haleigh Ehmsen 
senior news writer 

i hate writing inside columns. this is only the second one i have ever writ­ten and i am somewhat proud of the fact that i have been on staff the last four years, even serving as saint mary’s editor, and could always avoid pick­ing one up, pawning them off on my staff. but in a moment of weakness, or strength, i agreed to write one for the last regular paper of this academic year. 
“the pain is not the story. what causes the pain and changes you is the story.” i heard these words spo­ken by writer harrison scott Key at the association of writers and writing programs earlier this month. i was re­minded of my own reluctance to write about myself because of the pain caused by the loss of my dad nearly five years ago. 
part of why i hate writing inside columns is because i hate writing about myself. it’s not easy to remember the pain of losing my dad and often it overshadowed my thoughts as i battled depression. i tried to think of less heavy topics for an inside column each time i was presented with the opportunity to write one, but instead i found a willing writer. choosing journalism and prefer­ring to write about others was becom­ing a cop out for me to avoid my own narrative. 
when i came to saint mary’s, i knew it would become my home and that i would learn a lot, but i could never have imagined how these things would come to be. i’ve come to understand what it means to educate the whole student and view writing as a way of healing. blessed basil moreau, the founder of the sisters of the holy cross said, “the mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart.” 
the holistic education offered at saint mary’s taught me: to look outward, you must first look inward. in my courses, my travel, my friendships, my writing, these past four years, my mind has been cultivated and my heart healed. 
in this last year, i have come to un­derstand the healing powers of writ­ing about myself, the pain and the way it has changed me. i realize now that i don’t have to write about my dad’s death, but instead i can write about the power of my saint mary’s education and the way it transformed my life. each course and experience taught me more about my passions and my place in the world. ultimately, i couldn’t have con­tinued to heal without my friends and roommates, my professors and mentors, my mom and my sister and perhaps without this inside column. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Elizabeth Hascher 
dignified response 

the august before my junior year of high school, i vis­ited campus for the first time as a prospective student. the university of notre dame had previously existed only in my imagination, and it seemed perfect. it was in a location that would be just far enough out of my comfort zone, its name alone would surely propel my medical school application to the top of the pile and it was a place where i could enjoy foot­ball season and life under a beautiful, golden dome. 
as an admitted student returning to campus the February of my senior year, mary shone just as brightly as i remem­bered. i worked many hours since that first visit to get here, and i had finally made it. even the polar vortex that con­sumed the midwest that winter could not deter me from falling in love with this campus — what i saw then as a little slice of heaven. 
Freshman year, i made a promise to myself that i would always appreciate the opportunity i have been given to study and grow at such a wonderful university. today, i am still just as grateful for the many things that my notre dame educa­tion has given me. however, two years into my notre dame education, the dome does not shine quite as brightly any more. the glimmer of the gold has been dimmed, hidden beneath a cloud of thoughts that remain unspoken. 
here at notre dame, students can choose from 75 different degree programs and countless course offerings. we study a variety of subjects, ranging from philosophy to mechanical engineering to portuguese. but despite the many things we can talk about in class, at panels and in presentations, there are so many more that are off limits here at notre dame. 
throughout this year as a columnist for the observer, my peers have suggested topics for me to write about. For every suggestion i’ve gotten, however, i’ve been told five times that publicly expressing my opinion on such things would be a “bad idea,” or something i really “shouldn’t do.” in fact, for me to even provide examples of such topics would be consid­ered risky. 
at our lady’s university, to act contrary to established norms, to challenge those in power or to express an opinion that does not align with selective interpretations of catholic social teaching is to essentially become a heretic. as stu­dents, we should be free to discuss a variety of viewpoints and decide for ourselves what arguments we agree with. we should have the freedom to question the norms and the pow­er structures in society and at this university. instead, our voices are silenced, our questions remain unanswered and those who do speak up run the risk being ostracized. 
we can’t openly talk about discrepancies between the en­forcement of du lac amongst the dorms. there are questions that would be considered extremely inappropriate to ask guest speakers here which students at other universities do not even hesitate to raise. we do not dare to openly discuss with professors the inequalities and injustices they experi­ence in life or at this institution. 
additionally, the reasons why notre dame will not fund certain opportunities and experiences for students must remain unspoken. disagreeing with actions of the admin­istration is unimaginable, unless it is to argue for a stricter enforcement of catholic ideals. the mention of anything that portrays the university in a negative light is considered an unthinkable act. 
we can’t talk about these things because to do so would mean we would have to acknowledge that they exist, that our community has problems and that something must be done about them. but as long as we don’t talk about them, we don’t have to worry about it. however, we don’t really have any problems here. after all, as the carefully-crafted façade exemplifies, “this is notre dame,” this is a “catholic institu­tion” and everything is perfect when you’re a member of the notre dame family. 
notre dame’s prestige and identity as a catholic university in itself is not bad — in fact, this is a large part of what makes it attractive to so many. but we must be cautious not to let this negatively affect our relationships as students in this community or hinder the discussions we allow ourselves to have. the things we can say on a college campus, and par­ticularly at this university, should only grow more numerous as time goes on — as we learn new arguments, make more discoveries and open ourselves up to ideas of difference and challenges to the norm. the widespread perception that there are innumerable things we cannot say here at notre dame must be put to an end. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. She lives in Lewis Hall and studies political science with a minor in international development studies. She can be reached at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

lEttEr to thE Editor 
accessibility 
thank you, the observer staff, for your thoughtful series last week on disability at notre dame and saint mary’s. it is an extremely important topic worthy of con­tinued attention and priority. 
we agree wholeheartedly that our community must be inclusive and accessible in order to allow students, faculty and staff to flourish during their time here, and experience notre dame to the fullest. we hope to clarify one point made in the editorial published last Friday that made reference to the accessibility of our historic halls. 
our residential tradition is indeed a hallmark of the notre dame undergraduate experience, and while it would be difficult to achieve full accessibility in each of the historic halls short of tearing them down, we are pleased to note that, already included in the next planned cycle of renovations outlined by vice president for student affairs erin hoffmann harding in her letter to the campus community this past January, all historic halls on the renovation schedule will be modified to ensure that they can be easily entered and that their com­mon areas, restrooms and a complement of student rooms will be fully accessible to all students. the university is firmly committed to designing renovations, such as those that will be incorporated into walsh hall during this next year, that will provide every student access to any hall to visit classmates and friends without concern for accessibility. 
we look forward to continuing improvements to the spaces and places that make our community distinctive, and we hope that this further information is of help in our ongoing campus conversations. 
Doug Marsh 
associate vice president, university architect 
Heather Rakoczy Russell 
associate vice president for residential life april 26 



the observer | wEdnEsdAy, APril 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
White robes and black 
Ray Ramirez 
the crooked path 

confessions extracted under duress or torture are in­herently suspect. perhaps the best summary of the evils of torture and confession-based convictions was the u.s. supreme court decision in Chambers v. Florida, announced on lincoln’s birthday in 1940. Following a lurid show trial, Florida convicted four african-american tenant farmers of murder, based on confessions extracted after six days of nonstop questioning. the state courts upheld the ruling, but the supreme court reversed the convictions and declared, “under our constitutional system, courts stand, against any winds that blow, as havens of refuge for those who might oth­erwise suffer because they are helpless, weak, outnumbered or because they are nonconforming victims of prejudice and public excitement.” 
the author of those words, Justice hugo black, was a 1937 roosevelt appointee who provided support for emergency recovery programs designed to pull the country out of the depression. Justice black was attacked by many conserva­tives because of his support for roosevelt’s programs and his efforts to use the bill of rights to protect vulnerable mi­norities. despite these accomplishments, it is misleading to describe black as an unalloyed hero for justice and supporter of the weak and downtrodden: 17 years before he wrote the Chambers v. Florida decision, black joined the robert e. lee Klan no. 1 of birmingham, alabama, and remained an active member for two years. 
in the treatise “amoris lætitia,” pope Francis called on the church to be more attentive to the good that can be found “in the midst of human weakness.” there was a lot of good to be found in black, but his greatest weakness may have been a pragmatic tendency when faced with a difficult situa­tion. black’s own explanation for joining the Klan as a young lawyer speaks to this inclination: “i was trying a lot of cases against corporations, jury cases, and i found out that all the corporation lawyers were in the Klan. a lot of the jurors were too, so … i wanted that even chance with the juries.” 
black’s low point as a jurist was his 1944 opinion for Korematsu v. United States, which supported the relocation of Japanese-american citizens from the west coast after the attack on pearl harbor. in dissent, Justice Frank murphy said, “such exclusion goes over the very brink of constitutional power and falls into the ugly abyss of racism.” black’s expla­nation for the court’s decision upholding roosevelt’s removal order was chillingly expedient: “we … were at war. people were rightly fearful of the Japanese in los angeles, many loyal to the united states, many undoubtedly not, having dual citi­zenship — lots of them.” at a time when “prejudice and public excitement” focused on a group of people seen as the enemy within, black came up disappointedly short. 
the rev. martin luther King Jr. provided a caution and some hope when he said, “the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.” Fortunately for the legacy of black, he was blessed with a long life, and more oppor­tunities to apply his love of the constitution to seek justice for his fellow man. almost two decades after the shame of Korematsu v. United States, the supreme court had the op­portunity to rule on a series of cases that clarified the worth of the individual in the true currency of democracy — the right to vote. 
the landmark 1962 Baker v. Carr decision struck down a tennessee scheme established in 1901 that led to a disparity in voting power of 23-to-1 (rural-to-urban) by 1960 for state house districts, declaring that the court could review equal protection of the law as guaranteed by the 14th amendment. subsequent cases (Gray v. Sanders in 1963 and Wesberry v. Sanders in 1964) tackled voting dilution strategies used by georgia to favor rural areas, establishing the principle of “one person, one vote.” black’s opinion in Wesberry v. Sanders reestablished him as a champion for individual worth, as he parsed the writings of James madison on the bill of rights and proclaimed, “no right is more precious in a free country than that of having a voice in the election of those who make the laws. … other rights, even the most basic, are illusory if the right to vote is undermined.” 
recently, the court reaffirmed the “one person, one vote” standard in Evenwel v. Abbott. the court held that a proposed arrangement by texas conservatives to ignore non-citizens, children, felons and other ineligible voters in establishing the number of people in a voting district unconstitutionally denied equal protection to the uncounted. the opinion by Justice ruth bader ginsburg cites with approval black’s words from Wesberry v. Sanders, “while it may not be possible to draw congressional districts with mathematical precision, that is no excuse for ignoring our constitution’s plain objec­tive of making equal representation for equal numbers of people the fundamental goal… . that is the high standard of justice and common sense which the Founders set for us.” 
Justice clarence thomas wrote a separate opinion in Evenwal v. Abbott, ignoring 50 years of precedent on voting rights, complaining that the court’s Wesberry v. Sanders opin­ion “ … failed to provide a sound basis for the ‘one-person, one-vote’ principle because no such basis exists.” in a con­voluted and highly-targeted reading of madison’s notes, he discovered near total relinquishment of voting matters to the states. in seeking the splinter of states’ rights in madison’s eye, thomas ignored the crushing beam of racial discrimination that is at the core of these nefarious schemes to dilute voting rights. black shed the white robe of ignorance and racism, and left a legacy that, while flawed, contains epic defenses of personal rights. unfortunately, the weighty responsibility of protecting the rights of us all that attends the justice’s black robe seems to diminish and enfeeble those out of harmony with the arc of the moral universe. 
Ray Ramirez is an attorney practicing, yet never perfecting, law in Texas while waiting patiently for a MacArthur Genius Grant. You may contact him at  patrayram@sbcglobal.net 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttErs to thE Editor 

look within, see beyond 
“what are you doing after graduation?” 
i am going home for the summer. although a short re­sponse, this answer explains it all. yes, i don’t have a job. yes, i am a business major. yes, i don’t have my life figured out. no, i am not a failure. no, i am not alone. i just need time to get to know me, to think, to love life. 
as a first-year student nearly four years ago, i was immedi­ately sucked into the “notre dame family,” forced to become the definition of what it meant to be a “domer.” instead of re­ceiving the freedom i desired and expected, i was limited to choose my dorm, my roommate and my courses. instead of having the ability to define myself, i was put into a stereotype of the “white majority,” of which i neither associated with nor belonged. i grew up in an area of texas where i was a minor­ity in race, in religion and in socioeconomic status. i felt the need to conform, without having the chance to reflect, dis­cover and learn. as i joined clubs, attended lectures and took courses, i never thought twice about why i was doing some­thing, only about what it was that i was doing. 
am i doing enough? is what i am doing good enough? should i do more? 
i absent-mindedly talked the nd talk and walked the nd walk. i never said “no.” i overscheduled myself. i didn’t allow myself the time to reflect, to learn just to learn, to be spontaneous, to live. i forced myself to live by a schedule that was too rigid to incorporate new interests, passions and even relationships. life became a routine, from which i struggled to escape. 
as my four-year career comes to a close, amidst all the stress, coursework and extracurricular activities, i have begun to think differently. last week, i texted a friend who i hadn’t talked to in months and who helped me realize i never asked the right questions. “college pressures us to really keep reaching out to the external, but i think that internal discern­ment is really what we need to ground us. hopefully gradua­tion allows us to really reflect and dig deeper in ourselves.” 
i am ready for a new kind of academic experience after graduation. i am ready to learn the piano, to refine my lan­guage skills, to get to know people on a deeper level, to un­derstand what motivates and to be wholly and fully me. i am not taking a break from my responsibilities or abandoning my education. rather, i am enhancing it, reflecting on it and taking a risk to become my best self, so i can better serve the world around me by offering my whole self with all talents, passions and abilities. 
don’t get me wrong. i have generally enjoyed my time at notre dame. because no place is perfect, i can’t make an absolute statement here. i have struggled here, i have performed here and i have made lasting friends, but more importantly, i have transformed, and i need time to cultivate that transformation. i am proud of my decision to take the time to understand me this summer. if i could restart my four years, i would focus on only two activities, choosing to do only what excites me and defines me. i would reserve time for spontaneity to be with others. i would relax. 
do not let the pressures of notre dame, other students, family or the stereotype of you (what others think about you or encourage you to be) coerce you to do things that may not satisfy you. take the time to be yourself. be spontaneous. Foster relationships. look at your schedule and cut out what you are not passionate about. if you can do that now, do it. you are not alone, and if you have the same questions and doubts now that i did, do not be ashamed to take time for yourself. we decide our own happiness, so we need the time to do so. 
Ethan Muehlstein 
senior april 21 

thank you from the msa 
a week ago, the muslim student association (msa) organized our second “hijab day.” we see that the goals of hijab day — to create understanding, solidarity and conversations more than 200 people stopped by our booth in front of debartolo to ask about the hijab (spe-— were successfully achieved. we could not be more grateful to be a part of a welcoming cifically the headscarf) and islam, to experience the hijab or simply to grab a free scarf and community here at notre dame. as a minority group, we were blessed to be given this op-a Krispy Kreme. hijab day was an invitation to the notre dame community to understand portunity to educate the campus on one small aspect of our faith. we welcome all sugges­the hijab, the concept of modesty associated with it and the reasons muslim women choose tions on how msa could better educate on the hijab either through hijab day or any other to, or not to, wear it. it was also a platform to initiate open dialogue about the hijab and show means; they can be emailed to ndmsa@nd.edu. solidarity with the muslim women who wear it. 
msa would like to sincerely thank the notre dame community for the overwhelming Muslim Student Association support and the feedback that we received from various sources. based on the feedback, april 26 

By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

throwback playlists and favorite al­bums are the bread and butter for any music listener, but sometimes you need something new. here we look at some fresh records released in 2016 that might add some spice to your music library. 
dvsn: “sept. 5th” 

though the indie scene has been spout­ing out a whole lot of pbr&b lately (from the internet to majid Jordan to gallant), there are a surprising number of records that manage to stand out from the pack. dvsn writes lyrics so overtly sexual they’d make miguel blush. thankfully, that lack of subtlety is made up for in the re­strained, textured instrumentals behind each track on their excellent debut record “sept. 5th.” crisp drum machines that range from cascading 64-bit crunchers to reverb-soaked ’80s throwback kits pro­vide a spine for gorgeous, ethereal synth backdrops navigated by flawless vocals that are nothing short of seductive. 
4/5 
lil yachty: “lil Boat” 

lil yachty is yet another left-field 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
senior scene writer 

Finding a copy of tana French’s first novel on the bottom shelf of my library’s fiction collection was one of the best days of summer. so i’m eagerly anticipating the sixth book in her “dublin murder squad” series, due out in november. until then, i’ll have to content myself with other titles. 
For many people, the word “summer” evokes freshly-mowed grass, melting ice cream cones and mosquito bites. For me, summer means drinking copious amounts of iced tea, stretching out the length of the sofa, reading. when the air conditioning makes the house too cold, i take refuge on an old wicker chair on the patio or brave the spiders in my ga­rage. the largest source of stress in my summer is generally keeping sand and pool water off library books. 
an english major to the core, the phrase “summer reading” never struck fear into my heart – or maybe that’s because i was an enormous kiss-ass. i have fond memo­ries of reading the assigned books from my grammar school’s curriculum: “Frindle,” “Kavik: the wolf dog” and “anne of green gables” loom large in my recollections of rapper/auto-tune abusing singer who, following in the steps of lil b, is more than happy to tell you how much he loves you in one line and then demand you warm his bed in the next. his debut mixtape “lil boat” is marked by con­sistently amateurish, but surprisingly pretty, lullaby-esque trap beats that mir­ror the divide between friendliness and straight-up misogyny that permeate his lyrics. essentially, lil yachty tries to have the best of both worlds. when he manag­es to strike that balance on “minnesota (remix),” “out late” and “we did it (outro),” the results are wonderful. but when he doesn’t, it’s a childish mess. 
2.5/5 

sarah neufeld: “the ridge” 
violinist and composer sarah neufeld collaborated with experimental saxo­phone legend colin stetson on one of last year’s most exciting records, “never were the way she was.” this year, she’s back with “the ridge,” a truly fantas­tic work that stretches her playing to its brink. sarah’s clean, airy vocals add a lovely human element over meticulous-ly-constructed string arrangements and acoustic drums throughout the record, allowing the album to straddle the line 
summer. the heat and humidity that char­acterize new orleans summers heighten the experience of rereading classics like “to Kill a mockingbird,” intensifying the setting, or create an experience when reading irish detective fiction featuring cold, dark alleys, damp quays and misty mountains. 
summer is the best time for reading both highbrow and lowbrow works. my summer reading list usually consists of a smattering of classics that i haven’t al­ready covered in literature classes, reread­ing all the books in a favorite series (ahem, “harry potter”) and new releases. this year, my list includes the russian greats, such as anna Karenina, more dickens, “a confederacy of dunces,” Julia child’s “my life in France,” all of ann patchett’s fiction, more margaret atwood, italo calvino’s “if on a winter’s night a traveler,” elena Ferrante’s “neapolitan” series and “Just my type: a book about Fonts.” in terms of new releases, here are eight books i’m looking forward to reading this summer: 
may 17, rivka Galchen: “little labors” 
since reading “atmospheric disturbances” for my contemporary u.s. 
between artsy precision and sheer sonic beauty without falling too heavily on either side. technically stunning and emotionally rich, “the ridge” is an ear­ly contender for the best record of 2016. if any artist is able to craft a song more beautiful than “where the light comes in” before the end of the year it will be a miracle. 
4.5/5 

hammock: “Everything and nothing” 
what sets apart beautiful music from music that is simply pleasant is singu­larity. though hammock’s sweeping, ambient guitar lines have wooed listen­ers in the past, the inclusion of a heavier, more memorable production style on “everything and nothing” pushes their music to a new level. with dreamy vo­cals, fuzzy drums and their signature reverb-soaked riffs, hammock expands their palate beyond the prettiness of their first records and into far more re­warding territory. 
3.5/5 

the drones: “Feelin Kinda Free” 
australian art-punk band the drones has the bite and freshness of a live 
fiction class this semester, i’m eager to read more of galchen’s work, and this new col­lection of stories, lists and essays promises to be just as delightfully enigmatic. 
may 17, mary Kay Andrews: “the weekenders” 
i’d say mary Kay andrews is a guilty pleasure, but i have no guilt whiling away a summer afternoon with southern chick lit. 
may 31, neil Gaiman: “the View from the Cheap seats: selected nonfiction” 
this may be literary blasphemy, but i was one of the few who didn’t adore “the ocean at the end of the lane,” but i still enjoy gaiman’s authorial voice and look forward to this collection. 
June 28, Alice Adams: “invincible summer” 
alice adams’ first novel seems very much in the line of meg wolitzer’s “the interestings,” following the journey of four friends over the course of 20 years and per­fect for a quiet summer evening. 
July 5, Bill loehfelm: “let the devil out: A maureen Coughlin 
piranha on your arm. guitar music has rarely sounded as punishing as it has on bone-grinding record opener “private execution” or as paranoid as on the wonky string plucks of “taman shud.” “Feelin Kinda Free” is a record that man­ages to present new ideas every song while maintaining a razor-sharp focus of pained skepticism and unflinching wit. “the best songs are like bad dreams,” gareth liddiard snarls to start off the re­cord. by the end, you’re convinced. 
4/5 
deftones: “Gore” 
deftones released another deftones record that sounds like deftones. razor-sharp production, solid song­writing, epic guitar riffs cleaner than main building’s bathrooms and chino moreno’s bafflingly-unusual yet pitch-perfect vocal melodies. though gore boasts little to differentiate it from other deftones records aside from a touch of warm major-key shoegaze fuzz, it’s still a wholly enjoyable listen and a good gate­way to metal for anyone looking to stick a toe in. 
3/5 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.eduw 
novel” 
since taking a class on detective fic­tion while studying abroad in dublin, i’ve been working my way through classic and contemporary mysteries. i haven’t read the earlier works in loehfelm’s maureen coughlin series, but i’m going to do my best to catch up with the series before the new installment arrives. 
July 31, J.K. rowling and Jack thorne: “harry Potter and the Cursed Child” 
the script book for the play “harry potter and the cursed child,” which is be­ing advertised as the eighth story in the harry potter series, isn’t without contro­versy, but i’m eager to see where rowling and thorne take our beloved characters in their adult lives. 
Aug. 30, louise Penny: “A Great reckoning” 
i’m very much looking forward to the newest installment in penny’s excellent inspector gamache series, which has only improved with time. 
Contact Catherine Owers at                     cowers@nd.edu 


LINDSEY MEYERS | The Observer 

the observer | wEdnEsdAy, APril 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



Crossword | will shortZ 


Just Add wAtEr | John roddy & eric carlson 

FlinG By sPrinG | riley mccurrie 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
sudoKu | the mepham group 

horosCoPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: Find ways to cut your overhead and steady your financial situation, and you will ease your stress. don’t worry about how much money you have when your main concerns should be achieving peace of mind and maintaining what’s really important to you. an opportunity is apparent to make your future better. don’t hesitate to take the practical path. your numbers are 8, 17, 20, 22, 29, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): avoid appearing inconsistent or unpredictable, or you will be regarded as difficult. an emotional issue with someone will come to a head if you can’t find it in your heart to forgive and forget. make love and compassion a priority.  

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): extend a kind gesture to someone. your sensitivity and compassion will bring high returns. participate in events that will bring you in touch with someone from your past. an aggressive action will show others that you mean business. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a reality check is in order. recall memories that will make you revisit a similar situation to the one you face now, and you will be wiser in the way you handle matters. a subtle change to your appearance will bring compliments. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): your sensitivity will make it difficult for you to keep the peace. responding to someone who makes negative comments will not help you move forward. save your energy for something that will enhance your life instead of harming it. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): put business first and you will advance. use your charm, wit and bright personality to wow those you work with. let your adventurous spirit continue to grow when it comes to your personal life and romantic desires. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): rely on your perceptive qualities to help you come up with answers and to guide you through any situations that may be uncertain. don’t be tempted to overdo, overspend or overreact. take the practical approach whenever possible. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): partnerships are highlighted and can make a difference to the way you live. an unexpected change will alter your way of thinking as well as your direction. don’t let emotions hold you back from an opportunity that stimulates you. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): take on a project that will use your talents by implementing the thing you get the most out of doing emotionally, financially or physically. an opportunity will have its highs and lows. don’t let emotional blackmail cause you to miss out. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): socialize, do things with children or make new friends. you can make an interesting change at home that will give you greater freedom to reach your life goals. being open to compromise will help you deal with those who oppose your plans. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): learn from observation and avoid making a mistake. caution will be required while traveling or taking on physical challenges. reconnecting with someone from your past will have an influence on a decision you make. impulsive reactions will lead to personal uncertainty. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you’ll have plenty of ideas, but before you try to take on too much, consider what’s most important to you and concentrate on completing one thing at a time. organization and preparation combined with enthusiasm will lead to your success. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): express your desires and share your dreams, but don’t be too quick to try to do the impossible. being reasonable and looking for practical alternatives should be your intent. don’t give in to poor habits or temptation. 

Birthday Baby: you are kind, proud and generous. you are ambitious and energetic. 
JumBlE | david hoyt and JeFF KnureK 



to
 receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city     state Zip 


sPorts Authority 

NHL seeding system is flawed 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
“this doesn’t feel like a first-round series.” 
if i had been fortunate enough to receive compensa­tion for every time i heard that phrase or something to its effect from players, coaches or media during the first-round series between the chicago blackhawks and st. louis blues, then it would be safe to say i’d be in a much more advantageous financial position now than i was two weeks ago. 
but despite how tiresome listening to statements push­ing this rhetoric became, it is undeniable that every single one of them was true. 
the first round series be­tween the blackhawks and blues did not feel like a first round series, mainly because of the simple fact that, well, it shouldn’t have been a first-round series. 
the blues and blackhawks finished with the second-and third-highest point totals in the western conference, respectively. when the con­ference overall grants eight playoff spots, it doesn’t take upper-level analytical skills to realize that there may be something awry about two teams in the top half of the league’s playoff field playing each other in an eight-team, first-round format. however, due to the nhl’s dubious playoff seeding strategy, that was the unfortunate reality. 
two years ago, the nhl drastically overhauled its regular season divisions and, subsequently, its play­off format. in particular, the league abated its number of divisions from six to four and changed the playoff design so that the top three teams in each division would be kept in the same subset of the overall playoff bracket, thus forcing the second- and third-place finishers of each division to play each other in the first round. 
From the perspective of the regular season, the reasons for the realignment were certainly defensible. the league’s objectives of mak­ing its divisions more geo­graphically appropriate and ensuring that all 30 teams would play in all 30 arenas every single season were both accomplished with the changes. 
however, the unique play­off design is not nearly as logical. simply put, there is no reason for the nhl to ac­commodate its regular sea­son divisions in its playoff seeding process. seeding on regular-season record and point total is the easiest and most cogent method, but it has been an approach that the nhl — for some absurd reason — has consistently refused to adopt. 
the nba, which has the same number of playoff teams annually and has always oddly strayed away from seeding solely on in­dividual records, finally moved to such a format this season, and it would be sur­prising if they ever moved away from it going forward. geography may be one of the most rational justifications for keeping the peculiar nhl design, but the nhl’s blatant disregard for coordinating playoff game times with the actual location of games ren­ders that argument utterly meaningless. 
blackhawks-blues will undoubtedly be considered one of the most entertaining playoff series of this year’s stanley cup playoffs. it is unfortunate that the nhl has positioned itself so that the quality of its entertain­ment will likely decrease as its playoffs progress. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nBA | raptors 102, pacers 99 
pacers fail to hang on despite george’s 39 points 
Associated Press 

toronto — demar derozan scored 34 points and the toronto raptors held on for a 102-99 victory over the indiana pacers and a 3-2 lead in their first-round series tuesday night when solomon hill’s 3-pointer was ruled after the buzzer. 
the raptors overcame 39 points from paul george and a 13-point deficit in the fourth quarter, getting 14 points from Kyle lowry. 
bismack biyombo had 10 points and 16 rebounds for the second-seeded raptors, who can clinch the first seven-game playoff series victory in franchise histo­ry by beating the pacers in indiana on Friday night. 
george hill had 15 points and myles turner 14 for the pacers, who led by as many as 17 and never trailed through the first three quar­ters before coming unglued in the fourth. 
the pacers made 13 of 29 from 3-point range but struggled from all over the floor in the fourth, making four of 15 shots and scor­ing just nine points in the period. 
trailing 90-77 to begin the fourth, the raptors tied the game with a 15-2 run. powell stole the ball from monta ellis and made a fast-break dunk to knot it at 92-all with 
6:31 remaining, sending the sellout crowd of 19,800 into a frenzy. 
after powell’s basket, nei­ther team scored again until derozan hit a tiebreaking 3 with 4:15 remaining. after a missed 3 by ellis, cory Joseph hit another 3 for toronto, putting the raptors up 98-92 with 3:26 left. 
solomon hill’s 3 with 15.9 seconds cut it to 100-99, but derozan answered with a pair of free throws. 
indiana had the ball under toronto’s basket with 2.7 seconds left. ellis inbounded to george, who fed solomon hill, and pacers players threw their arms up in cel­ebration when his shot from the left side went through the net. but video replay confirmed that the shot came too late. 
with george on the bench, the raptors closed the gap with a 13-1 run to begin the second, making it 36-33. george returned and hit a 3 at 8:05, snapping a streak of seven straight missed field goals by the pacers. george scored seven of the next 10 indiana points be­fore toronto called timeout. derozan scored 13 in the second while george had 10 as the pacers led 61-52 at halftime. 
george scored 15 points in the third, including an 8-for­8 performance at the free throw line, as the pacers took a 90-77 lead into the fourth. 

mlB | white soX 10, blue Jays 1 
Sale stays undefeated as White Sox grab win 
Associated Press 

toronto — chris sale won again, pitching eight sharp innings and leading the chicago white sox over the toronto blue Jays 10-1 tuesday night for their fifth straight win. 
sale (5-0) has won all of his starts this season and leads the majors in victories. the lefty ace has a 1.66 era. 
sale carried a one-hitter into the seventh inning, re­tiring 13 straight batters before edwin encarnacion homered. sale gave up four hits in eight innings, strik­ing out six and walking two. 
dioner navarro hit a two-run homer and avisail garcia and adam eaton add­ed solo shots for chicago. 
the three home runs, 15 

FOR RENT 

1 BR fully furnished includes large sunroom and laundry on 3 acres walk­ing distance to ND. Heat and water in­cluded. Month-to-month lease. $650 + $50 electric. Call 574-271-7205 
3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 
hits and 10 runs were all sea­son highs for the white sox. 
r.a. dickey (1-3) allowed six runs and eight hits in six innings. the knuckleballer is winless in his last four outings and dropped to 2-6 in 12 career games against chicago. 
austin Jackson got three hits and drove in two runs. every white sox batter had at least one hit. 
chicago won its fifth in a row against the blue Jays. 
sale had two streaks end in the victory, giving up his first earned run after 22 consecutive innings without one, and seeing his active mlb-best streak of 76 bat­ters without a walk end in the first when Jose bautista earned a free pass. 
garcia hit his third home run, a drive that smacked the facing of the second level beyond the center-field wall. 
the white sox broke it open with three runs in the fifth. they loaded the bases with none out after they suc­cessfully challenged brett lawrie being called out at third, after he turned for home only to find the coach sending him back to the bag. 
Jackson hit a two-run dou­ble and eaton added a sacri­fice fly. 
chicago chased dickey in the seventh, with navarro homering against his former team. 
encarnacion hit his third home run of the season, and 200th as a blue Jay, into the fan deck on the second level above the center-field fence in the seventh inning. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800  family in for a football weekend. Contact  
+  utilities.  Washer/dryer,  kitch­ info@greymattersintl.com  
en  appliances  included.  Contact  
philipms@sbcglobal.net  TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY-­ 
WANTED  SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND fam­ily needs an energetic, outdoor-loving,  

reliable gal to travel to beautiful Jackson  
Hole WY from end of May/early June to  
Need  a  babysitter  for  early August as our live-in nanny. Email:  
Sep  9th  eve  when  Domer  info@greymattersintl.com  




nBA | raptors 102, pacers 99 

raptors hold off last-second comeback 
Associated Press 
toronto — demar derozan finally turned in the all-star effort toronto has been waiting for in the playoffs. 
derozan’s big game, and an even bigger raptors comeback, put toronto on the brink of a second-round berth. 
derozan scored 34 points and the raptors held on for a 102-99 victory over the indiana pacers and a 3-2 lead in their first-round series tuesday night when solomon hill’s 3-pointer was ruled af­ter the buzzer. 
“i just felt like my normal self,” said derozan, who came in shooting 29.6 per­cent (21 for 71) over the first four games of the series but connected on 10 of 22 shots in this one. 
“it’s all about patience,” derozan added. “you can’t get flustered, you can’t get frustrated. you’ve got to stay the course. that’s what we’re going to continue to do.” 
the raptors overcame 39 points from paul george and a 13-point deficit in the fourth quarter, getting 14 points from Kyle lowry. 
bismack biyombo had 10 points and 16 rebounds for the second-seeded raptors, who can clinch the first sev­en-game playoff series vic­tory in franchise history by beating the pacers in indiana on Friday night. 
“if we don’t come in (Friday) with the mental­ity like we had in the fourth quarter, it’s going to be a long game,” raptors coach dwane casey said. 
george hill had 15 points and myles turner 14 for the pacers, who led by as many as 17 and never trailed through the first three quarters be­fore coming unglued in the fourth. 
“it’s awful to have had a chance to win on the road, go up 3-2, and come back home,” george said. “once again, we failed to live up to that moment.” 
Jonas valanciunas scored 11 and rookie norman powell had 10 for toronto. 
the pacers made 13 of 29 from 3-point range but strug­gled from all over the floor in the fourth, making four of 15 shots and scoring just nine points in the period. 
trailing 90-77 to begin the fourth, the raptors tied the game with a 15-2 run. powell stole the ball from monta ellis and made a fast-break dunk to knot it at 92-all with 
6:31 remaining, sending the sellout crowd of 19,800 into a frenzy. 
“i think the crowd, the in­tensity, it took away from us being in attack mode and be­ing confident,” george said. “i thought we played a little nervous, a little tight, on our heels.” 
toronto’s first six points of the fourth came with george on the bench. he checked back in with 8:36 left. 
pacers coach Frank vogel said he considered leaving george in to start the fourth, but decided to stick with his reserves. 
“(george) looked pret­ty gassed at the end of the third,” vogel said. “we had a decent lead that i thought we could hold up. i chose to trust those guys, those guys have been good for us. they had a tough stretch there.” 
after powell’s basket, nei­ther team scored again until derozan hit a tiebreaking 3 with 4:15 remaining. after a missed 3 by ellis, cory Joseph hit another 3 for toronto, putting the raptors up 98-92 with 3:26 left. 
solomon hill’s 3 with 15.9 seconds cut it to 100-99, but 
smC GolF 

Saint Mary’s in midst of automatic finals bid 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
saint mary’s started its quest for a trip to the na­tional championship with its first of three miaa auto­matic qualifiers tuesday af­ternoon, walking away from medalist golf club in sec­ond place and trailing first-place hope by 11 strokes. 
the belles finished in the top four of miaa play in the fall season, which earned them the chance to com­pete with trine, olivet and hope for the conference’s automatic bid to the ncaa tournament. the four teams will compete in three 18­hole rounds this week, and olivet hosted the first round tuesday and while hope is set to host the remain­ing two over the weekend at the ravines golf club. because the automatic bid represents the belles’ best chance to make the ncaa tournament, belles head coach Kim moore said her team needed to get off to a good start tuesday to take down favorites hope and olivet, who finished first and second, respectively, in the miaa fall season. 
“currently, we have played olivet and hope at tourna­ments this spring, and we have finished very close to both of those teams,” moore said. “i think we have a great chance of beating olivet and hope, but it all [started] at this first event.” 
with little room for er­ror against top competi­tion, the belles also needed to execute at a high level in order to be in a position to win at the weekend rounds at hope, moore said. 
the belles were able to scramble well tuesday, fulfilling one of moore’s goals for her team, shoot­ing a 49-over 337 to put themselves in second place heading into the weekend. conference-leading hope shot a 38-over 326 to take an 11-stroke lead into the weekend rounds. olivet and trine found themselves just behind saint mary’s with a 50-over 338 and 57-over 345, respectively. 
after facing a tough sched­ule and playing against good teams throughout the year, moore said she sees the mental toughness her team has and expects them to be up to the challenge this week. although the team needs every individ­ual to step up and perform well at the miaa automatic qualifiers, moore especial­ly expects her experienced golfers to have a lot of con­fidence and to play well come competition time, she added. 
“i am expecting [junior] ali mahoney to play well,” moore said. “ … i also expect our senior, sammie averill, to play well this week. For some reason, she is very comfortable playing with the teams and players we will be playing against this weekend. i hope she uses her success in the fall to give her that confidence she needs.” 
with the first round in the books, the next two rounds will be hosted by hope on Friday and saturday, with each day’s competition starting at 2 p.m. at the ravines golf club. 
Contact Joe Everett at              jeveret4@nd.edu 
derozan answered with a pair of free throws. 
indiana had the ball un­der toronto’s basket with 2.7 seconds left. ellis inbounded to george, who fed solomon hill, and pacers players threw their arms up in cel­ebration when his shot from the left side went through the net. but video replay con­firmed that the shot came too late. 
“i wanted (george) to take the last shot if he was open,” vogel said. “he stumbled a little bit, had two guys on him. he made the right bas­ketball play. it was a great play, just a great play. one frame shy of being a tie game and going to overtime.” 
magic moment 
among those impressed by toronto’s comeback was hall of Famer magic Johnson, who sent out multiple tweets congratulating the raptors on their ‘miraculous’ victory. 
stucket’s stumble 
pacers guard rodney stuckey fell into courtside seats after fumbling a pass in the fourth, landing at the feet of rapper drake, toronto’s “global ambassador.” no one had a better view than casey. “(stuckey’s) shoes went out and he stepped out of bounds and ran over drake,” casey said. “i was more wor­ried about drake than i was stuckey.” 
tear eyed 
Following the game, drake posted a photo of george on instagram with a cartoon tear rolling down his cheek. 
tip-ins 
pacers: george picked up a technical foul after a mi­nor scuffle with lowry early in the third quarter. it was george’s third technical foul in the past three games. 
raptors: patrick patterson made his first start of the series, replacing luis scola. ... derozan had missed all eight of his 3-point attempts in the series before connect­ing in the second quarter. 
paid advertisement 
paid advertisement 





smC lACrossE | smc 11, elmhurst 7 
Belles achieve winning record for season 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s worked its way back to a winning record monday, defeating elmhurst 11-7. 
the first period was a tight one, and the scoring was started off by the bluejays (4-10, 0-4 cciw), who got the first goal of the game past belles freshman goal­keeper cara givens. the south bend, indiana, native has split playing time in goal with junior captain shannon weyer throughout the sea­son, but givens’ seven saves kept her in goal for the entire game. 
belles head coach amy long said the game was an important one for her team’s growth. 
“monday’s nonconfer­ence, rescheduled game allowed us to learn and per­fect things going into our fi­nal two conference games,” long said. 
saint mary’s (8-7, 4-2 miaa) responded and tied the game at one goal apiece when junior captain and attack emilie vanneste scored the belles’ first goal on the day. vanneste’s goal started a scoring run for the belles, as they proceed­ed to score three more un­answered goals. vanneste scored again to give the belles the 2-1 lead, and then her score was quickly fol­lowed by goals scored by freshman midfielder Kate Kelly and sophomore mid­fielder clare theisen. the pair of midfielders are the belles’ leading scorers on the season, and their first goals of the game were also their 37th goals so far this year. 
the scoring run was stifled when the bluejays scored again, making it a 4-2 game and spurring a scoring run for elmhurst. bluejays soph­omore midfielder phoebe leroy scored two more un­answered goals, bringing the score level again. it ap­peared that the teams were going to go into the second half tied up at four goals apiece, but vanneste was able to find an opening and give the belles the lead at the end of the first half, scoring her third goal of the game with 32 seconds left on the clock. 
the belles took control of the game in the second half, only allowing elmhurst to score three times in the en­tire period while scoring six goals of their own. 
carrying forward the mo­mentum from vanneste’s last-minute goal in the first period, sophomore attack hanna makowski, who had also picked up an assist ear­lier in the game, made the first offensive move of the period and scored her 16th goal of the season. 
scoring for the majority of the period was sporadic until the belles final scoring run. elmhurst was able to catch up and tie the game up, 6-6, but the teams continued to trade goals, as vanneste and Kelly each scored once more to give the belles an 8-7 lead. 
then, the belles were able to seal their win in the last minutes of the game, when they went on a three-goal run, which was started by theisen’s second goal of the 
paid advertisement 
day. Kelly was able to pick up a hat trick and makowski scored a second time to cap off the 11-7 victory. as a whole, long said she was pleased with her team’s performance against the bluejays, especially against their strong defense. 
“elmhurst played a solid zone defense that challenged us to continue to work to­gether to create our drives to goal,” long said. “they also had a couple quick attackers that really challenged our defense and goalie. overall, we are playing well right now and need to keep pushing ourselves throughout this week and next to accomplish what we are capable of.” 
when the belles next take the field, they will be re­turning to conference play against Kalamazoo. the belles will need to carry over the improvements they made against elmhurst when they take on the hornets (4-9, 3-3), long added. 
“one thing we focused on yesterday that will be crucial for thursday’s game is the looks to goal we take and the quality of our shots,” long said. “Kalamazoo has one of the best goalies we will see all year, so it’s important we are making the shots we 
take  count  in  our  game  on  
thursday.”  
throughout  the  season,  

the belles’ goal has been to make the miaa tournament. saint mary’s is currently in fourth place in the miaa, and long said she believes her team is fully capable of making the tournament. 
“we are definitely moti­vated to win at Kalamazoo to guarantee our spot in the tournament,” long said. “we have to win one of our last two games to advance, but our goal is to win them both to finish in third place in the conference going into the tournament. this team has come a long way this season, and i am excited to see us perform in the tournament.” 
the belles will take on the hornets in Kalamazoo, michigan, on thursday at 
7:00p.m. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 




trACK & FiEld 

Irish look to place in Des Moines despite injuries 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
with only three weekends to go before the acc outdoor championships, notre dame will gear up for the drake relays this weekend in des moines, iowa. 
as the name implies, the meet held at drake university will focus on relay events, and the irish are set to field teams in the women’s 4x100-meter, 4x200-meter and 4x400-meter relays. with three women’s relay teams competing, irish head coach alan turner said he feels the women’s squad is ready for the weekend as well as the upcoming acc champion­ship meet. 
“[this weekend], we go to drake, [and] hopefully we get some good relay times,” turner said. “after drake, everyone is getting ready for finals, and then after finals, getting ready for the acc meet. … we’re where we need to be on the women’s side.” 
one key member of the women’s team — sopho­more Jessica harris — set a school record in the 800-me­ter run last weekend at the virginia challenge with a time of 2:05.26. senior all-american margaret bamgbose also placed first in charlottesville, virginia, with a time of :52.50 in the 400-meter sprint. 
bamgbose will also be a fac­tor for the irish relay teams in competition this weekend. the evanston, illinois, native anchored both the 4x100 and 4x400 teams for notre dame at the virginia challenge and filled the role all season for the irish. 
the 4x100 team took third place in charlottesville with a time of :44.58, while the 4x400 squad placed sec­ond, completing the race in 3:34.71. 
while he is pleased with the strength of the women’s team, turner said injuries will likely hamper the men’s team from seriously chasing an outdoor acc title. 
“[For] the men’s team, [se­nior] michael clevenger still hasn’t suited up for us yet,” turner said. “it’s unlikely that he will. [Junior] nate richartz, all-american pole vaulter, has some hamstring issues. he may or may not suit up this season. i’ll know a lot more in the next seven days if we’re going to call the season for him or not. ... if it’s worth it to put him out there to go to the accs and he gets fifth or sixth place as op­posed to, ‘let’s redshirt him,’ then we get him for a whole other year, and he can con­tend for acc titles again. 
“we are thin on the men’s team, we’re going to struggle a little at the acc meet, but the women, we’re going to be 


w Golf 
continued From page 20 
the four regionals, and two of those teams — Florida state and clemson — will face the irish in the birmingham field. 
“we just didn’t play well [at the accs],” holt said. “our short gains were not good, we didn’t putt well, we didn’t chip well and trust me, we’re working on that right now. there are some tough shots we’ll be faced with, so get­ting our confidence back and working on technique in those situations is key.” 
holt’s team has scored seven wins in the past sea­son over the opponents it will face again next weekend, most notably victories over no. 1 seed alabama, no. 3 seed oklahoma state, the no. 6-seeded seminoles and no. 9 seed purdue. 
“this time of year, every­one goes back to zero,” holt said. “some teams are play­ing better than others right now, others were playing bet­ter at the beginning of the year than they are now. it’s all about playing hot, play­ing good golf for these three 
fully loaded and ready to go and try to win that women’s 
title.”  
also  competing  for  the  
irish  is  junior  thrower  
Josephine  Jackson.  Jackson  

goes by the nickname “indi” and won the shot put at the virginia challenge with a throw of 15.02 meters. turner said he expects Jackson, as well as senior thrower lena madison, to score points in the acc championship meet. 
days. we know we can com­pete with alabama and those top teams. it’s just going to take our best golf, and it’s go­ing to be that way for any of these 16 teams. 
“it’s not an insurmountable task. we’ve done it before; we just really need to do it now or else our season’s going to be over.” 
amidst this competitive field, the irish look to ad­vance to the national finals in eugene, oregon, as they did in 2011, which is their only other ncaa champion­ship appearance. the top six teams from every regional 
“we’re definitely going to get some points in the shot [put] with indi Jackson and get some points out of that hammer [throw],” turner said. “[we will] see if we can get lena to step up and get some points in the discus for us. we’re doing well in track, like i said earlier, and i definitely think the women’s team can contend to win that acc outdoor title.” 
Jackson will look to continue her solid perfor­mance this spring season, as she placed second in the shot put at the sun angel classic on april 10 and tallied anoth­er first-place showing in the same event at the stanford invitational on april 3. 
the drake relays are set to begin thursday and will con­tinue through saturday. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
will qualify for the champi­ senior talia campbell and  
onship, as will the top three  junior Jordan Ferreira were  
scorers  on  non-qualifying  the top players at last year’s  
teams. holt said she believes  ncaa  regional  hosted  at  
her team has a great chance.  notre  dame, tying for 19th  
“i  think  we  have  more  place while the team finished  
depth on this team than any  in eighth overall, six strokes  
team we’ve had in the 10  short of qualifying for the  
years  i’ve been here,”  holt  championship.  
said. “they’re all capable,  notre  dame’s  bid  for  a  
very good players.  i  know  second  national  champi­ 
they’re excited for the oppor­ onship  appearance  begins  
tunity. at this point, we have  at the three-day  ncaa  re- 
the opportunity  to  advance  gional at  shoal  creek  club  
to nationals and that’s about  in birmingham, alabama, on  
all we  could ask  for.  we’ve  may 5.  
put ourselves in that posi­ 
tion, and now we just have to  Contact Maureen Schweninger  
go out there and finish it.”  at mschweni@nd.edu  

paid advertisement 






soFtBAll | unc 7, nd 4; nd 12, unc 2; unc 7, nd 6 
ND wins one, drops two at North Carolina 

paid advertisement 
paid advertisement 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 19 notre dame entered the weekend with a nine-game winning streak, but the irish left chapel hill, north carolina, with one win in three games against north carolina. 
notre dame (35-8, 10-5 acc) began its weekend se­ries against the tar heels (26-22, 10-11) with a double­header sunday. 
in the first game, north carolina struck first with ju­nior starting pitcher Kendra lynch driving a three-run 


home run to right field. in ad-rbis with a three-run home ran for brooks. dition to the home run, lynch run in the first inning. despite the comeback, pitched a complete game, giv-Junior right-hander rachel notre dame came up short. ing up four runs and picking nasland picked up her 13th in the seventh and final in-up her 21st win of the season. win on the mound in the ning, tar heel senior short-
with a three-run deficit, blowout, giving up only two stop Kristen brown hit a the irish battled back in the earned runs and three hits in sacrifice fly off sophomore top of the second inning. a complete-game effort. by pitcher Katie beriont to score senior right fielder megan contrast, tar heel senior left-senior center fielder aquilla sorlie knocked an rbi single hander lauren Fuller pitched mateen from third base, as to right field to score sopho-all five innings but gave up the tar heels took the game, more shortstop morgan reed. 12 earned runs on 10 hits and 7-6. later in the inning, junior seven walks. after the conference road center fielder Karley wester with the series tied at one series, the irish begin a sev­drove in sorlie and sopho-game apiece, nasland took en-game homestand with a more left fielder bailey bigler the mound again for the irish matchup against depaul on to tie the game at 3-3. in monday night’s match-wednesday night at melissa 
north carolina won the up. she kept north carolina cook stadium. the blue day, however, and took a 5-3 scoreless through two in-demons (21-23, 11-3 big east) lead off sophomore second nings, but the tar heels got have lost three of their last baseman taylor wike’s two-to her in the bottom of the five games, but had a 12­run double in the bottom of third when freshman third game winning streak from the second. lynch added an baseman berlynne delamora the end of march to the mid­rbi single to her day in the blasted a three-run home dle of april prior to their cur-fifth inning to seal the victo-run to give north carolina a rent stretch. ry for the tar heels by a final 4-2 lead after three innings. offensively, junior first score of 7-4. the tar heels then extended baseman dylan christensen 
the second game of the their lead in the fourth frame leads depaul with a .417 aver-day yielded a vastly different by adding two more runs in a age and 13 doubles. the blue outcome, however, as notre two-out rally. demons also sport three hit­dame’s offense exploded for the irish did not go away ters with eight or more home 12 runs in a victory, 12-2. quietly, however. in the runs on the season — senior 
notre dame’s stat line was top of the fifth inning, pitcher morgan maize, senior highlighted by senior first notre dame tied the game, catcher naomi tellez and baseman micaela arizmendi. 6-6, after a grand slam by junior first baseman nicole the huntington beach, arizmendi, who finished the pihl. california, native tallied series with eight rbis and maize is also the blue three hits in three at-bats five hits. scoring runs on demons’ go-to pitcher, with and scored two runs, includ-the arizmendi grand slam a 3.72 era in 176 2/3 innings ing a solo home run and a were wester, who reached pitched on the season. the two-rbi double. seven irish base on a tar heel throwing senior’s 149 strikeouts rank batters recorded a hit in the error, freshman third base-53rd in the country. game and freshman desig-man melissa rochford, who notre dame will take on nated player caitlyn brooks walked, and senior infielder depaul on wednesday start-matched arizmendi’s three carly piccinich, who pinch ing at 4 p.m. 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish freshman pitcher Caitlyn Brooks takes a leadoff during Notre Dame’s 10-2 win against Eastern Michigan on March 22. Brooks hit a three-run home run this weekend at North Carolina. 

w lax 
continued From page 20 
hartman also said the way the team prepares for the postseason differs slightly from their regular season practice routine. 
“we definitely focus more on the quality of the reps versus the quantity of the reps,” hartman said. “we are pretty much just sharpening our skills that we developed throughout the season.” 
an explosive irish offense would certainly give the irish a fighter’s chance, assum­ing freshman goalkeeper samantha giacolone’s play remains at the level it has appeared to be at in recent weeks. after completing her last two games of the regular season with 17 saves to just 14 goals allowed, giacolone was awarded inside lacrosse magazine’s national rookie of the week award tuesday. 
giacolone and the irish de­fense thrived against the usu­ally high-powered offenses of usc and ohio state. despite the result of the tightly con­tested 5-4 loss to the trojans, the irish defense put forth one of its best statistical ef­forts of the season, as the trojan offense was the top-ranked scoring unit in the country entering the con­test. the irish also forced 19 turnovers and drew even on ground balls against the trojans. 
if notre dame defeats louisville on thursday, it will move on to play the winner of syracuse and boston college the next day. the irish dropped their home game against syracuse in a 12-11 decision march 26, while they beat boston college by a score of 14-4 February 21. in fact, notre dame could progress through the entire tournament bracket without once seeing a team it beat in the regular season, despite its winning record in conference play. its three conference losses came to louisville, syracuse and north carolina 
— each of whom are start­ing in different sections of the tournament bracket. the irish could conceivably face all three of those teams en route to a conference championship. 
the irish begin their con­ference tournament play thursday in blacksburg, virginia, when they face off against the cardinals at 7:30 
p.m. at lane stadium. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 

m lax 
continued From page 20 
this week, we’re looking to clean up those mistakes and push towards playing a full 60 minutes of great offense, defense and everything in between.” 
putting the loss behind them, the irish face the blue devils (9-6, 2-2) for the sec­ond time this season. notre dame hosted duke on april 10, when a strong second half fueled the irish past the blue devils, 8-6. like notre dame, duke competed in two games since playing in arlotta stadium, recording wins against virginia on april 17 and marquette on april 22. 
Just three games later, the blue devils aren’t the same team the irish beat in 41-degree weather that sunday at arlotta stadium. 
“duke is a really good team, and they are very well coached,” landis said. “i wouldn’t be surprised if they added some new schemes to their offense to try and gen­erate more offense against us. 
“so for us, it will be about adjusting to anything new, while being cognizant of the plays that they ran the first game.” 
duke senior midfielder myles Jones will be part of those plays the blue devils ran that first game. Jones is now the first midfielder in division i lacrosse his­tory to post 100 career as­sists and 100 career goals, with 29 goals and 32 as­sists on this season alone. defensively, the irish will be targeting weapons like Jones and sophomore attack Justin guterding, who leads the blue devils with 37 goals and also has 26 assists. 
while the tar heels reck­oned with notre dame’s top-ranked defense, scoring seven consecutive goals in a little more than seven min­utes, landis said he’s con­fident the irish defense is ready for Friday. 
“guarding people right away will be key,” landis said. “if we can be aggres­sive on ball and really force them to beat us one-on-one, i think we’ll have a really good day.” 
on the other end of the field, notre dame has con­tinued to find its rhythm. the irish have netted 23 goals since last meeting duke, when the offense sprung to life late in the second half with two consecutive goals by junior attack sergio perkovic in the fourth period to win the game. 
“i think our offense has really begun to find their stride,” landis said. “they put up 15 against a really strong north carolina de­fense, and i expect them to come out with the same 
type  of  aggressiveness  this  
game.”  
that  aggressiveness  has  

gotten the irish to where they stand now in the acc championship picture. the winner of the matchup be­tween notre dame and duke will play the winner of the contest between the top-seeded tar heels (8-5, 3-1) and fourth-seeded syracuse (8-4, 2-2) sunday at noon in the championship match. 
“we’re trying to maintain the same level of focus that we’ve had all year to be suc­cessful,” landis said. “on game day, everyone wants to win just as badly as the next guy because it’s win or go home. 
“the team who has that attitude during the week for practice will be most pre­pared for game day.” 
notre dame and duke will meet in the semifinals of the acc tournament Friday in Kennesaw, georgia, at 8:30 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

paid advertisement 


paid advertisement 



Baseball 
continued From page 20 
atmosphere and a lot of peo­ple in the area are iu or nd fans. so i think it’s a perfect place to play a good in-state rival.” 
acting as the home team, notre dame jumped out to an early lead in the bot­tom of the first inning af­ter senior designated hitter ricky sanchez doubled, then scored when senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis sin­gled to right field. 
in a close play at the plate, home plate umpire Jason stidham called sanchez safe, earning the ire of indiana head coach chris lemonis, who argued that freshman catcher ryan Fineman had tagged sanchez on a throw from sophomore right fielder logan sowers. however, the call stood. 
that was all the offense the irish pitching staff needed the rest of the night. senior left-hander michael hearne entered the matchup off back-to-back complete games but struggled to be as efficient as he had in his previous starts, hurling 106 pitches over six innings. still he was able to scatter five hits and two walks without giv­ing up a run, extending his streak of scoreless innings to 
15. he has given up just two earned runs in his past 31 in­nings pitched. 
“mike was just being mike,” biggio said. “he pounded the zone, got ahead early and he did a really good job of keep­ing the defense ready to play by pounding the zone and making sure balls got put in play.” 
the irish defense recorded 27 putouts and one double play without committing an error, while hearne struck out three. he leads the irish in wins (6), era (2.02) and opponents’ batting average (.213). 
“he was just commanding the zone really well,” biggio said. 
in the bottom of the third, notre dame padded its lead when junior catcher ryan lidge doubled and biggio fol­lowed up with a blast to right field that cleared the fence easily, making the game 3-0. it was biggio’s fourth home run of the year. 
“the first pitch of the at-bat [the pitcher] left up with a fastball,” biggio said. “so the second pitch he correct­ed himself and went just a lit­tle bit lower for a strike, and i was just ready to hit it and got the bat head out there, made a good swing on it.” 


lidge jumpstarted the of­fense once more in the bot­tom of the fifth inning, getting hit by a pitch to make his way aboard. after biggio and sanchez both struck out, Kutsulis homered to right for his second round-tripper on the season. Kutsulis’s three­rbi night extended his team-leading total to 29 this year. 
all of notre dame’s hits and rbis on the evening came from its ninth and first through third hitters, as the irish left just three runners on base, compared to nine 
paid advertisement 


for indiana. 
as the season draws to a close, the irish have not lost a nonconference game since the beginning of march and are perfect in midweek games. biggio credited that success to the coaches keep­ing the team focused. 
“it’s easy to not play hard in a midweek game or not take it seriously,” biggio said. “but we’re really big on our team about … taking it one pitch at a time. it doesn’t matter who it is we’re playing, we have to bring confidence and energy.” 
notre dame has a chance to reach 10-0 in midweek games wednesday night against eastern michigan at home. the irish are 12-2 at home this season, while the eagles (14-22, 6-6 mac) are 6-14 on the road and have lost six of their last seven games. 
notre dame and eastern michigan face off at 6:05 
p.m. wednesday at Frank eck stadium. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 


the observer | wEdnEsdAy, APril 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
mEn’s lACrossE 

Notre Dame ready to recover in ACC tournament 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
after an unexpected loss to end its regular season, no. 4 notre dame now sets its sights on postseason play in the acc tournament. 
the second-seeded irish (9­2, 3-1 acc) will take on no. 14 and third-seeded duke in the second semifinal of the con­ference tournament Friday at Fifth third bank stadium in Kennesaw, georgia. the irish enter the tournament as the no. 2 seed after falling to now no. 10 north carolina this past saturday, 17-15. the irish lost their no. 1 ranking in the defeat and gave up the acc regular-season title to the tar heels. 
“against unc, we did some really good things that were overlooked by the mental er­rors we had that cost us the game,” senior defender matt landis said. “coming back 
see m laX PAGE 18 


womEn’s lACrossE 
nd set for revenge versus cardinals 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame be­gins postseason play thursday when it travels to blacksburg, virginia, to face off against no. 7 louisville in the quarterfinals of the acc tournament. 
the irish (12-5, 4-3 acc) will seek to exact revenge on the cardinals (12-4, 3-4), who bested the irish in a double-overtime decision on march 5, 10-9. the defeat was notre dame’s first loss of the regular season and only loss in its first 10 games of 2016. 
the irish enter postsea­son play after finishing their regular season slate in a somewhat up-and-down manner, as they dropped three of their last five games. though each of their three losses came to ranked oppo­nents, including no. 3 north carolina and no. 4 usc, the irish will only see the schedule get more difficult from this point on. the acc is one of the strongest con­ferences in the sport, with six of the eight teams at the conference tournament cur­rently ranked in the top 20 nationally. 
the irish hold the no. 3 seed in the tournament thanks to their 4-3 confer­ence record, which trailed only no. 5 syracuse and the tar heels. irish senior mid­fielder hannah hartman said the team hopes to con­tinue offensively the trend it started in its final regular season matchup against no. 14 ohio state. 
“i definitely anticipate a fast start this weekend,” hartman said. “our offense found its mojo, both in the fast break and settled play, during our last regular sea­son game against ohio state, and i think we will carry that into tournament play.” 
see w laX PAGE 18 

BAsEBAll | nd 5, indiana 0 
Strong pitching shines in win over Hoosiers 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
notre dame cruised to yet another midweek victory tuesday night in indianapolis, defeating indiana, 5-0, thanks to another strong pitching performance from senior lefty michael hearne. 
in the 101st meeting be­tween the two programs, the irish (24-15, 9-10 acc) played at victory Field, home of the minor league indianapolis indians, and improved their record to 6-3 in neutral site contests and 9-0 in mid­week games. notre dame also claimed its first victory against the hoosiers (23-16, 8-4 big ten) since 1998, as the two teams only revived their rivalry last year. 
“anytime you can play in a professional stadium, it’s always pretty special, espe­cially against an in-state rival like indiana, who’s been hav­ing a pretty good year,” ju­nior second baseman cavan biggio said. “i look forward to this game because it’s a great 
see baseball PAGE 19 


nd womEn’s GolF | ncaa regional 
regional berth awaits the irish 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
continuing a tradition of highly-regarded postseason performance, notre dame earned a no. 10 seed in the 18-team ncaa birmingham regional in birmingham, alabama, which will take place may 5-7. 
the four ncaa regional fields were announced live on the golf channel on monday night. this is notre dame’s ninth straight ncaa regional appearance, and it is also the fifth time in program history 
— all under the leadership of head coach susan holt — the team has earned a top-10 seed. holt said she was more than happy with the seeding. 
“at this point in the season, you just want to be there,” holt said. “i’m especially happy with the site that we’re go­ing to [in birmingham]. it’s a great golf course, great to be able to play at that exclusive of a club.” 
the regional will be played at the shoal creek club, which is a private, invitation-only course that does not often host collegiate play. holt said she is particularly pleased by the fact that no one team has prior experience with the lay­out going into the regional. 
“From that standpoint, there’s not going to be much of an advantage for anyone because no one’s seen the golf course, unlike the oth­er site locations,” holt said. “i really love the spot. it’s a Jack nicklaus-designed golf course, and he’s got courses all over the country, so all our players have played his style. they all tend to have a lot of similar characteristics — re­ally big greens, very sloped and graduating, big bunkers 
— that kind of thing. those will be things we’ve seen be­fore. the grass down there is bent, which is a great surface because it will be familiar to us.” 
the team aims to recover from its 10th-place finish at the acc championship just two weeks ago. the nine teams who finished ahead of them all qualified for one of the four regionals, and two of 
see w golF PAGE 16 





