The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 91 | Monday, february 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Boxers fight, raise funds for Bangladesh 
86th annual Bengal Bouts kick off Sunday night, support Holy Cross missions for childhood education 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
The boxers participating in the 2016 bengal bouts are fighting — not just in the ring, but also to eradicate poverty in bangladesh, a country where most people make under $2 a day, ac­cording to the bengal bouts website. 
according to senior cap­tain mike grasso, the com­bined efforts of the boxers participating in the bouts raises over $100,000 ev­ery year, which goes to the holy cross missions in bangladesh. grasso said that the boxers raise the money through a variety of ways including ticket sales, do­nations, sponsoring and ad sales. 
“besides [bengal bouts be­ing a] display of all of our hard work in the ring and our endurance and our strength, we really have a greater mis­sion and a greater purpose in serving those less fortu­nate than us in bangladesh,” grasso said. “For example, a $150 donation is the same as sponsoring a child’s tuition for a full year and their room and board at the school. with just a little money, we can really help these people.” 
Freshman cam nolan agreed, and said that the most important part of bengal bouts is the mission behind it. 
“i liked that there is a pur­pose behind the sacrifice 
— instead of just playing sports for the fun of it, it’s playing sports for the good of another,” nolan said. “Knowing that the money 
see boXing PaGe 4 




Saint Mary’s highlights Girls and Women in Sports 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
associate saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s hosted a sec­ond annual national girls and women in sports day (ngwsd) clinic Friday in the angela athletic Facility. according to a college press release, the women’s sports Foundation es­tablished ngwsd 30 years ago as a way to celebrate extraordi­nary achievements of women and 12 and around 70 girls at­tended the event, according to schroeder-biek. 
schroeder-biek said she ap­plied for a grant through the ncaa conference to fund the event. The event was designed to let the young girls participate in four 30-minute clinics, she said. 
“They can choose which sports to play when they regis­ter,” schroeder-biek said. “They The girls may not have been in­troduced to all of the sports prior to the clinic, such as lacrosse. 
“a lot of the little girls have never played lacrosse before be­cause its such a new sport to the midwest so it gives them intro­ductory skills to lacrosse and all of the sports,” she said. 
schroeder-biek said the goal of the event was to ignite the love of activity and sport in the girls. she said the event allows girls to dream big and interact with the 


professor examines gender 


and girls in sports. 
saint mary’s director of ath­
letics, Julie schroeder-biek, said 
the event is in celebration of a 
national day of sports. colleges, 
universities and high schools 
are encouraged to do days like college athletes and coaches. 
CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
“if girls are exposed to sport 
Students discuss the definition of sex and gender as a social  
at a young age and they have 


construct as part of Saint Mary’s weekly Justice Friday series. 
fun with it and see the value in 
it, they’re so much more likely to 
speaking, gender is not a di-
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
carry on with an active lifestyle,” chotomy. she said there are 
news writer 
this and expose girls to sports, she said. 
all eight varsity sports partici­pated in the clinic, schroeder­biek said. college athletes volunteered their time to be counselors for the two-and-a­half hour camp. 
The camp is free and open to girls between the ages of six have the option of all eight sports, and they rank their top four. Then what we try to do is put them in at least their top three choices.” 
she said the 30-minute clin­ics are basic and designed by the college athletes to be introduc­tions into the particular sport. 
she said. “even if it’s not an orga­nized sport, just being active is so important.” 
schroeder-biek said the clinic fits into the athletic de­partment’s mission because it is about sharing talents and service. 
see sporTs camp PaGe 3 
This week’s installment of the Justice Friday series fo­cused on the definition of sex and gender, as well as the socialization of gender iden­tity. The conversation was led by seniors bri o’brien and vanessa Troglia.  
Troglia said that biologically instances where a person’s chromosomal combinations can differ from XX and Xy. 
“no one can see sex, it is chromosomal,” said Troglia. “There isn’t one or the other [sex], there could be some­thing in between.” adrienne 
see gender PaGe 3 







ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who’s your Valentine this year? 

Rachel Davis 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 
“‘my dog.” 
Emily Gust 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 
“my roommate.” 
Amanda McGann 
junior breen-phillips hall 
“my mom.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Lane McAuliffe 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“Fr. John Jenkins.” 
Chris Nunes 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“my mom.” 
Brian Pulawski 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“my computer.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
catherine owers Zach Klonsinski 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 

THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel o’grady ben padanilam megan valley 

Scene Graphics Jimmy Kemper lauren weldon Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Viewpoint Photo claire radler emily Kruse “The Alchemy of “Getting Started in “Christ for the Mindful Meditation Labor Café 
Vacuum” Research” Curious” Coleman-Morse Geddes Hall Snite Museum of Art Brownson Hall Coleman-Morse Center 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 3 p.m.-4 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center 5:15 p.m-6:15 p.m. Casual conversation 
Corrections 

Seminar on light-matter Learn how to launch a 7 p.m-8 p.m. Open to participants of on work, inequality and 
The observer regards itself as states. creative endeavor. Fireside chat series. all faiths. social justice. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Core Curriculum Film: “Les Violin Duo Chinese New Year’s Evening Adoration 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Open Forum Miserables” DeBartolo Performing Gala Breen-Phillips Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 

McKenna Hall LaFortune Student Arts Center Washington Hall 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

3:30p.m.-5 p.m. Center 7 p.m. -8 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Join for worship music, 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Faculty and staff  7 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Tricia & Taylor with Performances of reconciliation and a 
we can correct our error. 

discuss proposal. Snacks will be served. Notre Dame musicians. Chinese songs. brief meditation. 



Club Fever cracks down on fake IDs 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
after receiving two tickets from the indiana state excise police for two counts of mi­nor loitering, club Fever an­nounced in a Facebook post saturday that two forms of identification will be required for entrance. The nightclub in downtown south bend is a pop­ular location with notre dame, saint mary’s and other local college students on Thursday nights. 
“From now on, we will be re­quiring two forms of identifica­tion. if your id is from a state that is known for fraudulent 
Sports Camp 
conTinued From page 1 
“it’s kind of a give back night,” she said. “we all have been given some won­derful god given talents and we want to share that with these little girls and show them all that they can be.” 
Teresa guerrero, a se­nior lacrosse player, said she volunteered because it ids, we may ask you to provide proof of address to accompany your ids,” the post stated. “This 
“The students have been good to us through their support over the years, and we have tried to return the favor ... ” 
Dee Davis 
owner 
Club Fever 
was triggered by an abundance of social media posts and blogs regarding a leniency by one or 
gives the girls an opportu­nity to try out sports. 
“i think sports promote teamwork and friendship among girls so its important to have those things but also helps them stay active and fit and healthy throughout their life,” guerrero said. 
schroeder-biek said she hopes to continue holding this event every year. 
Contact Alex Winegar at awine01@saintmarys.edu 
more of our doormen regard­ing fake ids. excise saw enough bragging and gloating posts that they took action and ticketed us and arrested a few students for fraudulent identification.” 
club owner dee davis said in an email the club has “always sought to provide a fun, yet safe place for a large number of lo­cal college students to gather off campus.” 
“The students have been good to us through their sup­port over the years, and we have tried to return the favor by holding a fair pricing struc­ture, tons of security, quality entertainment, shuttle busses and a large, safe venue. we will 
Gender 
conTinued From page 1 
lyles-chockley, a visiting professor in the justice edu­cation program, listed several components of gender, and said this means that some­one’s gender identity may not match their biological sex. 
“There are two components of gender,” lyles-chockley said. “my internal sense of self — which you don’t know 
— and the external, which is my performance … gender expression is performance, identity is sense of self and sex is the biological aspect that nobody can tell.” 
o’brien laid out differ­ent terms used for gender expression. 
“if your gender identity, your gender expression and your bodily sex all align with each other and is what the expectation is for you, then you’re cisgendered,” she said. “if you deviate from that, then you’re gender nonconforming.” 
o’brien said people put ex­pectations on others based on their biological sex. 
“gender is socially con­structed,” she said. “you’re continue as we have — and even have some big entertain­ment announcements to make 
— while being more diligent in our scrutiny of proof of age pro­vided to us at the entrance,” he said. 
The post encouraged stu­dents to continue practicing safe drinking behavior. 
“we know that many of you who will no longer be able to at­tend student nights will be go­ing to more house parties and such. we hope you will remain safe and aware at these par­ties. remember, you will not have a staff of 20 security per­sonnel, professional bartend­ers, off duty cops and caring management to look out for you. please take care of your­selves as we don’t want to see any of you hurt. make sure you know exactly what goes into your glass, and don’t ever let it out of your sight,” it stated. 
This isn’t the first time davis said the club would crack down on underage drinking. in march 2014, the club instituted new safety and emergency policies, after a shooting occurred near the intersection of michigan and wayne streets, and also raised concerns regarding pa­trons’ use of fraudulent ids. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

assigned a sex at birth, and from that, different gender expectations are put on you.” 
Troglia said the social con­struct of gender can have real consequences on society such as an equal distribution of both genders in jobs. 
“even though gender con­struction is made up by soci­ety and does not make any real sense, as a consequence, men and women are discouraged from going into certain jobs ... ” Troglia said.  “because of social constructs, there not an equal distribution into certain job fields.” 
o’brien also said society could be different and less exclusionary if gender stan­dards were eliminated. 
“it’s an interesting thing to think about,” she said. “we don’t know for sure, but if we eliminated gender constructs in society, it could lead to more opportunity.” 
The Justice Fridays discus­sions take place every Friday from 12:10 p.m. to 12:50 p.m. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 




boxing 
conTinued From page 1 
and the fight is for a good cause, and knowing that i am going this summer to see firsthand what that cause is, and knowing the reasons for our suffering, it’s given me so much motivation to work hard and to suffer.” 
grasso said he credits the greater mission with uniting the boxers into one team, even while participating in an extremely individualistic sport. 
“we start off every week with our ‘mission monday,’ and that ‘mission monday’ really emphasizes the main point that we’re here to serve those less fortunate than us,” he said.  “when we start off our practices with that tone, when every boxer knows that we are here [for that purpose], we use that as fuel for our workouts. and we know that the harder we work, the better shape that we’re in, the more entertain­ing the bouts will be. and the more entertaining the bouts are, the more people will donate and come to the bouts and the more money we’ll raise.” 
Junior captain alex alcantara said while people may have entered bengal bouts because of their inter­
“We start off every week with our ‘Mission Monday,’ and that ‘Mission Monday’ really emphasizes the main point that we’re here to serve those less fortunate than us. When we start off our practices with that tone ... we use that as fuel for our workouts.” 
Mike Grasso 
senior 
est in the sport of boxing, most people chose to stay because of the team bond that ultimately forms. 
“most people are drawn to the bouts for the compe­tition aspect of it,” he said. “however, i think what makes them stay up until senior year is the camarade­rie and teamwork that they build, as well as becoming part of the mission.” 
however, alcantara said the boxers do not just raise money for this far-off coun­try and forget about it. They are invested in the work the missions provide in the coun­try. many boxers participate in an international summer service learning program (isslp) in bangladesh, which is sponsored by the center for social concerns. 
alcantara went to bangladesh over the sum­mer of 2015, along with three other boxers. The boxers stayed in bangladesh for two months, teaching english during the day and helping during mass at night. 
“The best part of the expe­rience, is knowing that we’ve supported [the people of bangladesh] for 86 years,” he said. “it really felt [like] we were family with the people we were helping, which was really the most rewarding part.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT The observer | Monday, february 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By SAM FENTRESS 
scene writer 
The average viewer of this year’s oscars ceremony 
— now only two weeks away — might not recognize “body Team 12” and “last day of Freedom” as academy-nominated flicks, or even as movies at all. These two, dealing intimately with such grim subjects as ebola and post-war trauma, push cinematic boundaries outward and forward, as do three other films nominated for best documentary short. 
all five films screened at notre dame’s browning cinema last Thursday, and i must admit that viewing them in succession required a different disposition than watching, say, “The martian.” Take “body Team 12,” for instance, a 13-minute short that zeroes in on garmai sumo, a liberian red cross worker in the heat of the ebola crisis. brief but wrenching, the film depicts the team’s attempts to collect corpses destroyed by ebola, often from the unwilling hands of family members who want to pay adequate respects to their lost loved ones. The short makes up for brevity with sheer relevance as the only of five shorts whose story demands and deserves to be told now. The choice of filmmakers david darg and bryn mooser to adopt sumo as the film’s center of gravity also helps; she epitomizes the uncanny grit required of workers in dire medical fields and exudes compassion for the job she’s called to do. 
in fact, all five shorts put individuals at their center. it’s a good way to accomplish the two things that all good doc shorts should do well: tell a human story and illuminate a problem. “chau, beyond the lines,” directed by courtney marsh, puts full trust in its human subject. 16-year-old chau suffers from a disability caused by chemicals in agent orange, the herbicide u.s. military units sprayed over vietnam throughout the ‘60s. marsh, dedicated to the project and to chau, followed him over the course of eight years as he faced artistic rejection from a slew of authority figures and himself. admittedly, i too found myself doubting that chau — who can barely walk, much less hold a paintbrush — could find a viable career as a painter. but he does, and as we share in his triumph in the film’s final moments, we’re reminded of the value of commitment and of the passage of time, and of people like marsh who are willing to watch and wait. 

richard linklater’s “boyhood” is the most recent great example of this long-term filmmaking, but even his work doesn’t match the herculean effort of “shoah,” claude lanzmann’s 1985 holocaust documentary that took 12 years to make and lasts nearly 10 hours. lanzmann himself serves as the subject of another short, “claude lanzmann: spectres of the shoah,” which depicts his efforts to create the 1985 film, which in his words was a “total war.” The new film focuses on lanzmann’s career, but i found it the least affecting portrait among the nom­inees. The short does more service to “shoah” as a film than it does to lanzmann as a filmmaker, who seems less alive and interesting than his 30-year-old film. perhaps that’s for the best. it’s an important film. 
hbo is distributing “lanzmann,” as well as “a girl in the river: The price of Forgiveness,” another nominee by sharmeen obaid-chinoy, who won an oscar for her 2012 documentary “saving Face.” obaid-chinoy’s 40-minute film follows an 18-year-old pakistani girl whose uncle and father attempt to kill her after she elopes. it was no surprise to me that obaid-chinoy was a veteran of the category; “a girl” is expertly produced and boasts the best production quality of the nominees, as well as a deeply arresting story. perhaps the most disturbing as­pect of the subject is not how common these “honor kill­ings” are in pakistan, but how casually the girl’s family treats the attempted murder — even after she manages to survive a gunshot. 
last and certainly not least is “last day of Freedom,” the most cinematically ambitious of the five shorts. The film animates an interview with bill babbitt, the brother of a diagnosed schizophrenic sentenced to death for kill­ing an older woman. directors nomi Talisman and dee hibbert-Jones, in collaboration with a small animation team, drew over 30,000 individual frames to recreate the interview with babbitt, which makes up the good major­ity of the film. some are pencil, some are charcoal; some are colorful, but most are stark, as simple and raw as babbitt’s account, which ends in tears — he turned his brother into the police with the promise that his brother wouldn’t face the death penalty. 
i love “last day of Freedom.” it boasts beauty and importance equally, and at the same time, pulses at an excruciating pace. Talisman and hibbert-Jones breathe palpable empathy into their animation, and babbitt’s internal conflict feels as real as the societal problems it reflects, those of a country unable to compassionately deal with men and women who suffer from mental ill­ness, even sometimes as a result of service to their coun­try (babbitt’s brother served extensively in vietnam, the cause of his pTsd). babbitt’s urgency in “last day” is the urgency that saturates the best of its genre, an urgency to deliver the message in the clearest, most sincerely af­fecting way possible. “last day” — like all the nominees 
— delivers with pressure and poise. 
Contact Sam Fentress at sfentres@nd.edu 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 


InSIde ColuMn letterS to the edItor 
What’s ‘indie’ anyway? 
Adam Ramos 
scene writer 
The question “what kind of music do you like?” always elicits some blend of excitement and stress for me. For one, any opportunity to fanboy-out about an album i’ve been really digging, or discover a shared passion for a particular group is one i want to participate in. That being said though, it’s almost inevitable that some derivative of “i like indie music” will surface at some point during the discussion. while technically true, i hate the inherent condescension that comes with that phrase. in reality, my musical tastes are eclectic and diverse, and the phrase “indie” is just no longer suffice in covering all my bases — plus, it turns some people off from sharing their tastes, something i really detest. 
The term “indie” began in the uK during the ‘80s, and became synonymous with the term “alternative,” another meaningless catchall for off-kilter, low budget acts. even today, when placed in front of other genre titles, “indie” evokes a d.i.y aesthetic, its not just pop, it’s indie pop — i.e “we’re not another mainstream corporate sellout act,” sick. yet, when so-called “indie” acts rise in fame, are they still indie? does the term “indie” suggest a type of music or just the level of fame? 
in a recent issue of under the radar, beloved “indie” artist Father John misty addressed some of the conflict in the term “indie” — and its coalescence with the term “mainstream”. 
“it’s true. The lines really are blurring more and more. sometimes, when i am on my way to an indie rock writing session with my indie rock producers who have been getting pressure from my indie rock label executives who are still not convinced we have that crucial indie rock single that’s going to break indie rock radio … i can barely tell the differ­ence myself.” 
misty went on longer describing his “indie rock workouts” among non-mainstream activities, but his point is clear. as the consumption and distribution of music warps and evolves with the times, labels and genres are becoming less and less relevant. 
chicago-based online music magazine pitchfork media, the current mecca for independent music, has long been regard as the epitome of this “indie” condescension. yet more and more, pitchfork has been covering a much wider scope of music. of recent, acts considered by most as “main­stream,” such as rihanna, Fetty wap and adele, have gar­nered attention on the niche music critique site. 
what really ticks me is just how paradoxical it all is. if the term “indie” is suppose to suggest the purity of independent music and the unmitigated creativity available to those artists free from the fetters of a larger, more corporate label, shouldn’t the listeners of these acts be open to all types music? sequestering your musical tastes to just the acts on smaller labels prevents attainment of a holistic appreciation of music in the context of our culture. if you’re constantly spending your time seeking music from small independent acts, shouldn’t you give more popular music a fair shot? 
now that the lines between indie and mainstream are beginning to blur, it seems like my gripe with the tricky little word will soon be gone. if rihanna can cover a Tame impala track on her latest album and Kanye can get away with sampling an arca track on his “yeezus,” can we drop the distinction now? The black and white separation of indie and mainstream albums from the record stores of day’s past is just no longer the reality, and music is better off. 
at the end of the day, music and is just music — what we label the specific genres and subsets really just get in the way of enjoying it all. if it makes your head bob, don’t let cultural notions stop you. next time i get inquired about my taste in music, i’ll just have to come with some cliché or something; it’s better then just saying “indie music.” 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

an immigration series 
as the first part of the year-long course the mexico­
u.s. border immersion seminar, students met in the fall to learn about various topics and perspectives about this border (especially the arizona-sonora area) and related immigration issues. among other things, they read, wrote about and discussed different theo­ries about why people migrate, the perils people face when crossing, the dynamics of faith-based humani­tarian efforts and the consequences of border policy. 
Then, during the first week of January, students traveled to the southern arizona borderlands to ex­perience directly the realities of immigration. Their activities included talking with border patrol agents, trekking through the desert on a humanitarian trip, observing immigrant court proceedings, seeing ev­eryday life in border communities and hearing stories about migrants’ difficult journeys and continued struggles for those who made it. 
now, in the spring semester, students are back on campus in the classroom to process and reflect on their immersion trip. They seek to better understand what they experienced through conversations, writ­ings and readings. students also desire to share their feelings, thoughts and perspectives with the larger notre dame community. Their viewpoint article this week are one attempt to do so. 
These pieces are very timely. pope Francis is visiting the u.s.-mexico border this week to highlight the gap­ing wound in immigration policy. This wednesday, for instance, he will pray at the u.s.-mexico border, where hundreds of displaced people continue to die every year. his trip to mexico’s northern border will come at the end of a week-ago visit to mexico. 
earlier in the week, he will travel to mexico’s south­ern border region where many central americans cross on their way north. one of the pope’s first stops will be the shrine of our lady of guadalupe in mexico city to highlight the faith that unifies people of mexico and the americas. The pope will also visit other areas to bring attention to the significance of family, young people, workers, indigenous communi­ties and prisoners. To continue the central message of the year of mercy, pope Francis is expected to bring attention to the violence, corruption and indiffer­ence that disproportionately affects the poor and marginalized. 
pope Francis has said that he does not want his visit to gloss over the raw issues affecting mexico and bor­der communities. rather, he wants to exhort people to fight against injustice. students’ viewpoint articles this week are in that spirit and aim to generate discus­sion and dialogue in the hope of promoting a more dignified system of immigration. 
Kraig Beyerlein 
assistant professor of sociology 
Bryant Crubaugh 
sociology ph.d. candidate 
Leo Guardado 
peace studies and Theology ph.d. candidate 
Katrina Linden 
senior Feb. 14 

blue, gold and indifferent? 
“we are part of the society, but not really.” This is how one deferred action for childhood arrivals (daca) student, whom we will call Katherine, describes her life. daca is an american immigration policy that allows certain undocumented immigrants who entered the country before their 16th birthday and before June 2007 to receive a renewable two-year work permit and exemp­tion from deportation. notre dame began admitting daca and undocumented students in 2014, and there are currently 10 sophomores and at least 20 first year daca students now at notre dame. 
Katherine’s family came to the united states when she was 8; they overstayed their visa. since then, Katherine has faced constant uncertainty. “i did not know what was going to happen when i was applying for college,” she said. sometimes it felt like going to college would not hap­pen, she admits. without a social security number, she could not apply for government financial aid, and private schools were her only hope. 
coming to notre dame has been a “blessing” for Katherine, but her experience is not without challenges. she candidly states that she is most frustrated by the lack of awareness on campus. in her words, “if the problem is not directly affecting [someone personally], people tend to not care.” hearing this, we felt embarrassed. There are a wide range of opinions that can be taken about what the future of our immigration system as a country should look like. but when students most intimately familiar with an issue as important as immigration generally describe our student body as apathetic, ignorant or indifferent, we feel embarrassed, and we have to ask ourselves why. 
it is true that today’s students have access to a wide variety of media sources, most of them biased in one way or another, and it can be difficult to seek out and find unbiased sources of information. Furthermore, it can be challenging to make an informed opinion about any issue without unbiased information. but aren’t these empty excuses? in the case of immigration, don’t we have a responsibility to push ourselves to learn more about indi­viduals most affected by this system as well as the system itself before we form an opinion? 
in this election year, many of our peers list immigration as an important contributing factor in how they will vote. deeper discussions, however, often validate Katherine’s experience and show that we have limited knowledge about immigration. worse, these discussions can unin­tentionally dehumanize people like Katherine and her family. 
before forming an opinion about immigration reform and immigrants themselves, we would like to present a list of questions for you to consider: 
1.) do i know what it feels like to be unsafe in my home or country or unable to have the means to support my family? 
2.) have i read firsthand any peer-reviewed research or studies about the effect that the 11 million undocument­ed immigrants have on the u.s. economy? 
3.) am i aware of the avenues available to people seek­ing to legally enter the united states and how they vary based on an applicant’s country of origin? 
4.) have i met any undocumented immigrants and discussed with them what their family’s experiences have been like? 
5.) have i made a deliberate choice to take a class, at­tend a lecture or engage in discourse that challenges me to think about this issue from another point of view? 
if the answer to more than one of these questions is no, we suggest that deeper investigation is required before an informed opinion can be made. 
when discussing the vast topic of immigration, there is objectively no right opinion. The system is too vast, com­plicated, and obscure for that to be the case. There are, however, many wrong opinions and those are the opin­ions founded in ignorance or apathy. 
Caitlin Bryski 
senior 
Lily (Xiaoyu) Yu 
sophomore Feb. 14 


a constitutional obligation 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 
president obama recently released his final 2017 bud­get, which proposed a total spending of approximately $4.1 trillion. included in the budget was a request for $582.7 billion in defense spending, a budget higher than the combined military budgets of the next seven largest military spending nations. in an era of limited resources, concerns about our growing national debt, worries about our nation’s general economic outlook and the seeming­ly ever-increasing need for increased resources for social programs, it is both a legitimate and a necessary ques­tion to ask why we need to continue to allocate so much of our resources to our military. The answer is simple: we do so because it is the moral, practical and constitutional obligation of our federal government to provide for our defense. 
many of those advocating decreased defense spending and the diversion of additional funds to other aspects of the federal government, particularly entitlement programs, point to the fact that the u.s. spends a dis­proportionate amount on national security. however, our nation’s defense spending has in fact dramatically declined in recent years, particularly as a function of total federal spending. since 2010, our defense budget has actually been cut by 25 percent in inflation-adjusted dollars. defense department expenditures now account for only 15 percent of all federal spending, an amount less than that expended on national security prior to september 11, 2001. as a percentage of our gdp, our total national security spending has fallen from 4.7 percent in 2010 to only 3.3 percent in 2015. in fact, our present investment in national security is substantially lower than that of other nations. For example, in 2014, saudi arabia, israel and russia spent approximately 10.4 per­cent, 5.2 percent and 4.5 percent of their gdp on national security, respectively. 

our $18 trillion of national debt cannot fairly be at­tributed to military or defense oriented spending. higher debt is the result of out of control federal spending, par­ticularly on entitlement programs. From 2001 through 2015 spending on social and economic programs exceed­ed federal spending on national security by a margin of 61 percent to 38 percent in inflation adjusted dollars. For better or worse, our federal government has prioritized entitlement spending over dollars allocated for our na­tional security interests. 
has our federal government fulfilled its constitutional obligation of providing for the common defense? a cred­ible argument can be made that our government is not discharging this core mandate by the continued erosion of our military capabilities and presence. 
The world obviously has become a more dangerous place over the last 15 years. Threats ranging from islamic extremist organizations such as isis and al-Qaeda; the failed “reset” policy of president obama with respect to russia and moscow’s aggressive steps toward georgia and crimea; the destabilizing effect of the refugee cri­sis in growing list of countries including syria, yemen, Turkey, lebanon and Jordan; the every-increasing threat posed by a nuclear iran; china’s increasing displays of aggressiveness, and specifically, cyber-warfare; and the growing threat of an irrational north Korea are but a few of the threats to our national security and reflections of the ever-deteriorating international landscape. against this background, can it be rationally argued that the u.s., 
should have over the last six years, reduced its defense budget by 25 percent with a resultant degradation of its military capabilities? 
decreased defense spending also has a demoral­izing impact on our nation’s service men and women. veteran’s healthcare and retirement benefits have dete­riorated to unacceptable levels. deserving pay increases for our troops are being neglected. in fact, the 1.6 percent pay raise that is reflected in president obama’s current budget proposal is well below the estimated rise in pri­vate sector compensation in 2016. 
The power and prestige of the u.s. on the world stage has hit an unacceptable low. we must send a message to our enemies that the u.s. will unwaveringly protect its citizens, its interests, and most importantly, its allies by allocating all necessary resources to combat threats to our national security. a strong navy must be rebuilt, reductions to our ground troops must end, the visibility of our presence around the world must be restored and our international allies must be given assurances that the u.s. will not abandon its friends. 
while the u.s. may not be obliged to act as the world’s policeman, the fact remains that the u.s. must exercise its authority as a world leader in a responsible, coherent and trustworthy manner. u.s. hegemony cannot simply be ignored. with this power comes responsibility from which our government cannot run. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Revue in review 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 
as an active participant in only one installment of the Keenan revue (and an in-person attendee of two others), it’s going to be hard for me to render any kind of justice to the now 40-year-old tradition of talent and satire for which Keenan hall is well-known. i won’t be able to pro­vide much insight into the history of comedy and contro­versy the revue has raised, nor will i be able to comment on what it feels like to dedicate months of preparation to its planning and funding. but i can offer a review, from both an outsider and insider position, of what the revue means to me and what i think is its gift to the notre dame community. 
it would be easy, but in no way untrue, to repeat what i have heard others say about the meaning of Keenan’s annual comedy event. within the dorm, the revue brings together hundreds of men (this is no exaggeration) to perform in capacities that are alternatively sweat-induc­ing, laugh-generating and awe-inspiring — i mean, have you ever seen several human pyramids of underwear-clad men performing synchronized pushups before? The enterprise of putting on a show of this magnitude unites the creative spirit of the dorm certainly, yet it also serves the wider community in ways both obvious and unexpected. 
here, again, i feel the need to use words other than own. during the Friday performance of the revue, the original creators of the show, Thomas lenz and richard Thomas, spoke about the impetus behind the event. They shared this story with The observer (and newsweek): 

“one of our classmates — he was hit by a car coming back from michigan after having been at a bar,” lenz told The observer last week. “it was one of those really shocking and sobering moments for our dorm, to re­ally consider the role that alcohol played at a lot of social events and in the dorm’s life. That was kind of the context for people saying, ‘okay, so getting wasted every weekend is one thing to do, but what else could the dorm do that would contribute to the growth of the dorm spirit and to the health of the community?’” 
community growth and engagement was the way noel Terranova (Keenan rector and formerly unclaimed bachelor) framed the broader purpose of the revue. This is true. with skits about the superficiality of campus di­versity, not to mention the dubious paternity of Kylo ren, the show is bound to incite conversation. i’m not sure if an irate series of Tweets about the cis-normative, white, male patriarchy is the kind of engagement noel had in mind — oh, how they have played right into our hands — but i’m a believer in the adage that bad feedback is better than no feedback at all. i might need to pop a few cultura before i offend anybody, though. 
This leads me to the personal impact of the revue. i first saw the revue as a groveling, freshman resident of alumni hall, back before my turncoat days. it was February, probably, but who’s expected to remember anything lucid from the iced-over blur that was the win­ter of 2013? snow was not my thing. school was, similarly, not really my thing. i’m not about to tell some sob-story about how the revue changed my life, but what it did af­ford me was the stark realization that notre dame could actually be, well, fun. and funny. and side-shakingly hilarious. 
amid the talk of social change and the pressure of nearly constant examination, whether by professors or peers or potential employers, it can easy to forget the joy of good comedy. i’m not so much talking about the iso­lated humor of watching an episode of snl in your dorm room. i mean comedy experienced personally. i watched a student-made documentary recently in which an notre dame comedian questioned why notre dame students 
— and i think college students more broadly — have to take themselves so seriously. The remarks had less to do with criticizing ambition and more to do with acknowl­edging the self-importance that arises from the inability to laugh at oneself. 
self-mockery, of notre dame students and Keenan Knights, lies at the core of the revue. it reminds us of the folly involved in much of what we do and brings to mind the lighter-hearted side of university life. i had the privi­lege of taking part in this humorous reminder last week. i’d like to thank my fellow Keenanites for that fine honor. if we jarred a few people who take themselves too seri­ously, good on you. here’s to 40 more years of the Keenan revue and then some. 
let the show go on. 
Charlie Ducey waxes poetic without warrant, but who needs a warrant to write poetry? He studies English and German and is in his final year at Notre Dame. Please direct fan art and gripes to cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




CroSSword | will shorTZ 
JuSt add water | John roddy & eric carlson Sudoku | The mepham group 



flInG by SPrInG | riley mccurrie horoSCoPe | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: show greater initiative and do what you can to improve your surroundings, environment and future prospects. don’t get too upset about anything. instead, try to let your humanitarian outlook be your guide to better days ahead. you can make a difference if you honor your beliefs and are loyal to those you love. your numbers are 3, 7, 19, 21, 26, 37, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): choose to make a difference. use your intelligence and know-how to bring about important changes. express how you feel and connect with the people you want to share your life with. live in the moment. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): ybe the instigator when it comes to love and your personal relationships with others. show how much you care through your actions, not promises you probably won’t keep. don’t let anger take over when passion is what’s required. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you won’t be able to rely on anyone when things are going poorly. motivation will be the key to your advancement, but divulging personal secrets will lead to your demise. Follow your dreams, not someone else’s. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be afraid to discuss your plans. The only thing to fear is rejection, and even that is better than living in limbo. offer kindness and a willingness to compromise to ensure that everyone is happy with your plan. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t show emotional weakness or you will come under siege. you may feel forced to bring about changes, but in the end, the moves you make will help stabilize your life. don’t be afraid to start something new. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take control and everybody will look up to you. romance, intrigue and travel are all favored. plan your actions and follow through. your strength and participation will take you on an adventure you won’t want to miss. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take better care of your health, finances or any legal concerns you have. don’t rely on someone else to handle matters for you. show discipline and don’t procrastinate or someone else will take over. deal with relationship issues now. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): offer physical but not financial help. look for a new way to use your skills to bring in more money. make a change at home that will give you the space you require to engage in a career that excites you. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen carefully to decipher what’s true and what’s false. Take a position that gives you the freedom you need to pursue your personal goals. don’t sell yourself short when it comes to your personal relationships. choose partners wisely. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a unique approach to love and personal contracts. your ability to combine practicality with incentives will help you get your way. a change in the way you live looks promising. show affection and make someone you love happy. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your emotions in check and don’t take on a task that is beyond your capabilities. be smart about what you can and cannot do, and focus on what is attainable. anger solves nothing, but a consistent effort will help you reach your goal. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): self-help books or courses will bring you in contact with someone who can help you raise your awareness and improve your life. an opportunity to form a partnership with someone special will lead to interesting changes in the way you live. 

Birthday Baby: you are diligent, fearless and competitive. you are protective and loyal. 
JuMble | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPortS authorIty 
For NBA, regular season matters 
R.J. Stempak 
sports writer 
with super bowl 50 in the past, baseball long gone in hibernation and hockey impossible to imitate, now is the perfect time to watch the nba. 
The nba is wrongly ig­nored until the playoffs, under the assumption that simply nothing matters un­til may and June. That could not be more untrue as this season finds itself with not one, but two transcendent, and possibly, record-break­ing teams: golden state and san antonio. 
spurs and warriors have net ratings of 14.1 and 13.9, respectively, meaning that on average they outscored their opponents by 14 points per 100 possessions, under­scoring both their offensive and defensive prowess. The next best team in the league has a net rating of a mere 8.6, and after that, no one has better than six. 
This golden state team is not just the best team in the league this season, they may very well be the best team in the history of the league and in a time when the league is the more competitive than it ever has been. everyone has heard of michael Jordan’s bulls, larry bird’s celtics and magic Johnson’s lakers. well stephen curry’s warriors are right up there with these historically great squads, and curry’s team has the highest win percent­age entering the all-star break of any team, ever. 
The warriors should not be the only reason to watch the nba, as two strong teams are right behind them in the western conference, the spurs and oklahoma city. 
The spurs, as well as the warriors, are undefeated at home this season and are tearing teams apart, left and right. This year the spurs have 35 wins by double dig­its, while most teams don’t even have 35 wins period. They have the best defense of the past decade and an offense that hums along and passes through defenses on a nightly basis, led by age­less veterans Tony parker and Tim duncan. 
The Thunder have Kevin durant coming off last year’s foot injuries with a vengeance. durant is aver­aging 28 points per game with an unstoppable jump shot, playing alongside the freak athlete russell westbrook who records a triple-double seemingly every other night. 
The eastern conference may have less excitement, but it is definitely more competitive than last year, with Toronto and chicago serving as potential chal­lengers to lebron James’ cleveland team. 
Teams care about the reg­ular season, and so should the fans. players are so good that anyone can go off for 20 points in a quarter at any time, and overtimes happen on a nightly basis. seeding is important because no one wants to play the super teams that tear everyone else to pieces. every win matters and every game is exciting and fun to watch. 
curry is on pace to make 100 more 3s than anyone else ever has, so watch him make history. 
Then go out with your friends and have fun trying to be like curry, because not everyone can be like mike. 
Contact R.J. Stempak at  rstempak@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC baSketball | KalamaZoo 74, smc 66 
saint mary’s falls to Kalamazoo on senior day 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 

This past saturday, Kalamazoo came from be­hind to defeat saint mary’s, 74-66, dashing the belles’ hopes of getting a confer­ence win on senior day. 
senior forward eleni shea, who finished the game with 15 points, got the belles offense going in the first quarter, scoring the first two baskets of the game for saint mary’s (1-23, 1-14 miaa). however, saint mary’s struggled with turn­overs and offensive execu­tion early, and the hornets (8-16, 5-10) jumped out to a 19-12 lead by the end of the first quarter. 
The saint mary’s offense came alive in the second quarter, as the belles went on a run to tie the game at 25 early in the second. with momentum favoring the belles, saint mary’s also began to force Kalamazoo turnovers and taking low -percentage shots. by the time the halftime buzzer sounded, saint mary’s had built a 40-32 lead thanks to a 28-point quarter. 
belles head coach Jennifer henley said she attributed the second quarter turn­around to a more confident offensive approach. 
“i think we just got more aggressive offensively and started to attack the paint,” henley said. “it was the first time we got to the foul line. we didn’t go any times in the first quarter. basically, we got our footing, and we were more confident in our offense.” 
The saint mary’s offense slowed down at the start of the second half as the belles attempted to work the clock and preserve the lead. after a low scoring quarter, saint mary’s lead was cut to just six, 54-48, headed into the final 10 minutes. 
saint mary’s went cold offensively to start the fourth quarter though, and the hornets took ad­vantage, tying the game at 58-58 three minutes into 
the quarter.  saint  mary’s  
freshman  forward  Kelsey  
ronan  answered,  putting  

the belles back on top, 60­
58. The belles stretched the lead to four, but Kalamazoo responded. hornet fresh­man guard emily Kozal hit a 3-pointer to cut the lead to one, and junior guard claire slaughter scored on Kalamazoo’s next posses­sion to give the hornets a lead they never relin­quished. saint mary’s fought until the very end, employing a full-court press and fouling in an effort to extend the game, but these efforts fell short. 
henley said the free throw disparity is what ultimately pushed Kalamazoo past the belles. 
“we put them at the line 42 times, and we only went 
12. so there was a clear un­balance in the foul situa­tion, and that’s hard to come back from,” henley said. 
The hornets shot 34-of­42 from the charity stripe, including a 15-of-17 mark in the fourth quarter, while saint mary’s converted on nine of its 12 free-throw attempts. 
Though it was another loss in what has been a diffi­cult season for saint mary’s, henley said she was proud of the way her seniors, who suited up for their final home game saturday, played this year. guards maddie Kohler and sarah macius and forwards Krista Knapke and shea will all finish their careers with the belles after their final regular-season game next weekend. 
“you can’t measure these kids on a scoreboard,” henley said. “you have to look at them in the whole. retention in [division-iii] is tough, and these four have stuck together all four years, through ups and downs, and they’re going to be very suc­cessful once they leave saint mary’s.” 
The belles will finish its season on the road against albion next saturday. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 
nba | wesT 196, easT 173 

west all-stars send bryant out with win over east 
Associated Press 

ToronTo — Kobe bryant exited the all-star game for the final time to watch russell westbrook and stephen curry wrap things up with 3-pointers. 
bryant’s gone, and these young guys are good. 
bryant said his all-star game goodbye and the next generation of the west’s best sent him off a winner, rolling to a record-setting 196-173 victory over the east on sunday night. 
“it was fun,” bryant said. “i had a blast playing with those guys, laughing and joking with them on the bench.” 
The first all-star game outside the u.s. was the highest-scoring ever. bryant didn’t provide much of the offense but many of the memories. 
“To see him now, it’s like the passing of a gen­eration,” west coach gregg popovich said. “he’s been such an iconic figure for so long, and he passes it on to that other group of young guys that you saw out there tonight.” 
bryant finished with 10 points, so few that he lost his career lead in all-star scoring to lebron James. 
but westbrook scored 31 points in his second straight all-star mvp per­formance and curry added 26 — the final three on a 42-footer. anthony davis had 24 on 12-for-13 shooting and Kevin durant chipped in 23. 
paul george finished with 41 for the east, tying westbrook’s total from last year in new york that was one off wilt chamberlain’s record. John wall added 22 points. 
James finished with 13 points, just enough to move ahead of bryant for most ever in the all-star game. James has 291, while bryant, who is retiring after this season, leaves with 290. 
he checked out with 1:06 left to cheers and hugs from his fellow all-stars who now put up points in bunches the way bryant did for so long. 
bryant had seven assists and six rebounds, but shot 4 for 11 in a game where there isn’t really much de­fense and had never been less. The 369 combined points were 48 more than last year’s record, and both clubs blew away the previ­ous individual team record of 163. 


The observer | Monday, february 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

bouts 
conTinued From page 13 
a succession of punches that denied stenger any room with which to work. stenger managed to land a few hits to Feijoo’s body and head to end the bout, but Feijoo won by unanimous decision. 
Chip blood def. Sam “the brawling barrister” o’brien 
The next bout pitted blood, a sorin junior, against o’brien, a law student. The men fought at close quar­ters, with blood going for the head while o’brien returned with punches towards blood’s body. with agile movements, blood managed to block many of o’brien’s advances, as he was forced to a corner of the ring in the second round. The third round started with blood fiercely punching at his op­ponent’s head but not man­aging to get past o’brien’s blocks. o’brien lunged to land some final punches and came out of the ring with his nose bleeding. blood was de­clared the winner by unani­mous decision. 
Patrick “Starsky” lawler def. henry “Clarence” orlowski 
lawler, a sophomore from Fisher, began the bout with multiple jabs directed at orlowski’s head. lawler then launched another attack against the Keough sopho­more, but this time he went for orlowski’s body. in the second round, orlowski re­versed the momentum and used quick footwork to land several punches to lawler’s body. however, lawler was able to once again land sev­eral shots to orlowski’s head to counter his attack. in the third round, lawler regained control of the contest’s mo­mentum by landing upper­cuts and blows to orlowski’s head, which forced the latter to the ropes and into a de­fensive position. The com­petitors finished the fight in close quarters, with each trying to land a final com­bination. in the end, lawler won by unanimous decision. 
Mike “Greasy” Grasso def. luke “I am your father” rafferty 
grasso, a stanford senior, attacked rafferty’s head to start and knocked the freshman off his feet early. rafferty fought back and at­tempted to land punches to grasso’s body, but grasso blocked and countered with a jab to rafferty’s head. in the second round, grasso again went immediately to­ward rafferty’s head and left him unsteady on his feet. rafferty took to the offensive but was quickly countered by a combination of punches by grasso. grasso continued pounding rafferty with blows, and the official end­ed the match in the second round, giving grasso the ref­eree stopped contest victory. 
163 pounds 
Pat Shea def. John “Chilly” hatfield 
shea, a senior from Keough, jumped out to a quick ad­vantage from the opening bell, forcing the referee to stop the bout twice in the first round to check on the Keenan sophomore hatfield. both fighters danced around the ring towards the start, but shea got in several qual­ity punches to the head, forcing the brief stoppages. shea kept up the quick pace in the second round, and a hard hit necessitated a third stoppage. shea again knocked hatfield down, and the referee stopped the bout, giving the win to shea in a referee-stopped contest. 
Peter loughran def. eoghan flanagan 
loughran, an o’neill fresh­man, got in some big hits on Zahm junior Flanagan in the first round, but there was no clear advantage in the fight early on. in the second round, loughran contin­ued to be aggressive, push­ing Flanagan into the ropes and setting himself above Flanagan. Flanagan showed fight in the final round, but loughran was able to knock him off balance to seal the deal. The judges granted loughran the win by split decision. 
ryan Chestnut def. ezra kim 
The first round began with fast punching by both the o’neill sophomore chestnut and off-campus senior Kim, but neither boxer appeared to establish an early advan­tage. chestnut landed a big blow on Kim early in the second round, resulting in a referee stoppage. Kim never was able to get much trac­tion for a comeback attempt following the stoppage, and chestnut took over the fight. using his momentum and boosted by a raucous cheering section, he cor­nered Kim, and the referee stopped the contest, declar­ing chestnut the winner by referee-stopped contest. 
alex “the aztec” Cervantez def. david “Mata leão” Galvao-Guerra 
The fighters began the bout with a few wary punch­es on each side, as they ten­tatively felt out each other’s fighting styles. suddenly, a cervantez right hook knocked galvao-guerra to his knees. The sophomore pushed galvao-guerra against the ropes several times in the first round, but galvao-guerra came back with energy and landed three combos to the head in the second. cervantez went right and left with a series of controlled hits to send galvao-guerra back on the defensive. galvao-guerra had cervantez around the shoulders for an uppercut twice, which stopped the match. in the end, cervantez was declared the winner by split decision. 
Joe Quinones def. franco “little Caesar” Cesareo 
Quinones, a Keough sophomore, came out with some hard swings and sev­eral uppercuts. he had st. edward’s freshman cesareo against the ropes in his own corner by the end of the round. cesareo landed a few well-timed blows to start the round but missed a few key punches, which left him on the defensive. The sophomore’s right jabs sent cesareo reeling during the last period, and Quinones was declared the winner by unanimous decision. 
edwin onattu def. Jim “boiler room” boyle 
in the first round, onattu and boyle, both off-campus seniors, traded punches, as onattu came out of the gate with a flurry, while boyle countered with several up­percuts. onattu came out with renewed energy in the second round and made it difficult for boyle to land any of his body blows. onattu finished the round by land­ing a series of punches to boyle. both fighters were vis­ibly exhausted at the begin­ning of the third round, but boyle knocked down onattu, which provided him with renewed energy and excited the crowd. The two traded weak blows for the remain­der of the third round, and the bout ended with onattu being declared the winner by unanimous decision. 
Mark egan def. andrew Mikes by unanimous decision 
rudy bernard def. Matthew Green by unanimous decision 
175 pounds 
John “big wet” wetzel def. thomas “huge taste” doran 
both wetzel, a senior from st. edwards, and doran, an o’neill freshman, came out with strong punches. energy was high as the fighters trad­ed powerful blows. wetzel led off with an uppercut, but doran took him to the cen­ter of the ring, matched him blow for blow and had him cornered at the bell. wetzel and doran fought hard through the third round, but doran began to show fatigue by the finish. senior experience came out on top as wetzel was declared the winner by a split decision. 
wes Chamblee def. Connor “thor” Parker 
chamblee, a law student living off campus, caught parker off balance to start the bout and had the ju­nior on the ropes more than once. parker could not keep chamblee in reach for his counterpunches. parker re­grouped and came out with controlled energy in the second round, but a right uppercut by chamblee left him reeling and on the ropes once again. chamblee’s ex­perience proved too much to overcome as parker strug­gled to maintain a defensive stance until the finish. The judges declared chamblee the winner by unanimous decision. 
Michael “Muscle hamster” krecek def. Vince “beaver” Saladino 
both fighters began with a flurry of punches, and Krecek, a morrissey freshman, proved surpris­ingly strong against the se­nior fighter out of o’neill, saladino. in the second round, several consecutive right hooks by Krecek left saladino pinned in his own corner. The referee stopped the fight after the second round and declared Krecek the winner by referee-stopped contest. 
Zach flint def. Mark Mazzucco 
The bout started off with a frenzied flurry from both fighters, as they traded up­percuts and punches to the stomach. as the two off-cam­pus seniors settled into the fight, both danced around the ring before Flint sud­denly landed several hard punches to mazzuco’s face, leading to a stoppage. in the second round, Flint contin­ued where he left off, landing several blows to mazzucco’s head, which led to another stoppage. when the second round restarted, Flint over-matched mazzucco with a flurry of quick punches and even quicker feet. mazzucco underwent heavy treatment for his bloody nose during the break. mazzucco came out well early in the third, driving Flint into the corner. however, Flint landed a pair of powerful uppercuts to the face and body of mazzucco just before the bell, draw­ing blood on the shoulder of his opponent and forcing the referee to end the third round early and award Flint the win by referee-stopped contest. 
tai Verbrugge def. kevin frost 
verbrugge, a freshman in Knott, started off the fight by using his long reach to strike the off-campus se­nior Frost. Frost swung ag­gressively in response but struggled to land any of his punches. midway through the first round, verbrugge cornered Frost and landed several blows to his face. both fighters maneuvered and danced around until the end of the first round. both fighters began the sec­ond round aggressively, and verbrugge was forced off-balance, leading to a tie-up and a stoppage. both fight­ers shifted to defense for the rest of the round, not trading many big blows. in the third round, the fighters were un­willing to trade heavy blows, as both seemed exhaust­ed. however, verbrugge was able to land a few solid punches near the end of the match, and he was awarded the fight by split decision. 
nick “Stud” walter def. thomas hellios 
hellios, an alumni soph­omore, landed a flurry of early punches to the stom­ach of the senior siegfried resident walter to start the first round. walter rallied, however, using his longer arms to land a few punches to end the round. hellios used his shorter but pow­erful frame to connect on punches to the stomach of walter, driving him into the corner. however, walter ral­lied by again to keep hellios away, targeting and land­ing a few of his punches to the head of hellios. in the third round, hellios again used his bull-rush tactic to land many punches to the body of walter while push­ing him into the ropes, but walter again rallied by land­ing several hard punches to hellios’s head, including one right before the bell that helped him secure the win by split decision. 
Jack “not the Guy from lost” Shepard def. kelly “Jr” burgess 
shepard, a senior in Knott, come out aggressively, land­ing several hard punches and eventually knocking down burgess, a sopho­more resident of duncan. shepard continued his early domination by landing sev­eral more combinations to the head of burgess before the two traded inconse­quential blows for the re­mainder of the first period. shepard continued where he left off in the second round by landing more combina­tions to the head of burgess, eventually driving him to the canvas and prompting the official to call the match early, awarding the victory by referee-stopped contest to shepard. 
182 pounds 
Jack “hammer” Corrigan def. Charles “tigger” Puntillo 
an off-campus junior, corrigan began the bout action picked up with sev-initiated contact and both with a high level of intensity. eral punches to the head by fighters fought in close prox-nolan was able to land a few both fighters, as rainey, an imity, each landing several powerful blows near the end off-campus senior, appeared quality punches to the other. of the fight to take control of to have the edge at the end however, meyer was quicker the round, and in the end he of the round. in the second and more precise with his captured the win by unani­round, the fight ranged all punches. meyer’s face was mous decision. over the ring, with rainey covered with blood by the on the attack early in the end of the match, but he was 207 pounds round, and o’Toole, a soph-able to pull out the victory omore from alumni, coun-by unanimous decision. Connor “next round’s on terattacking in the second Me” futa defeats Mack half. rainey landed several 191 pounds baten huge punches to the side in the first round, both of his opponent’s head, as Jack “Irish lion” ryan def. fighters tentatively felt out o’Toole’s ability to protect Joseph “the armenian each other’s styles. baten, his face deteriorated in the hammer” tekerian an alumni sophomore, kept third round. rainey spent The two fighters circled Futa, a duncan freshman, the remainder of the third each other twice to start the off-balance for the majority round on the attack and was first round, and Tekerian, an of the first round but was un­eventually awarded the fight off-campus senior, stayed able to capitalize with many by split decision. low to ground against ryan’s strong punches. The second 




three-step combinations. round was much of the same, Patrick rahill def. william ryan was able to stay out of as neither fighter was will­kocak reach of Tekerian’s hardest ing to be the aggressor, al­
in a bout that featured a hits, but despite his signifi-though Futa and baten each with a few wary punches, sway the judges. mcosker strong contrast of styles be-cant height advantage, he landed a single great punch but puntillo, a freshman was named the winner by tween two off-campus se-found himself on the ropes that caused a brief stoppage from o’neill, came back unanimous decision. niors, rahill used his height after a few well-timed punch-as both fighters gathered with a few well-timed coun-and length to land some es in the second round. all themselves. The third round terpunches of his own. The rodrigo “el tigre” quick punches to the head told, Tekerian had him cor-increased in physicality, two danced around the benavides def. James of Kocak early on. however, nered three times. Tekerian with baten landing a couple ring until one right hook by “haymaker” holland Kocak fought by bull-rush-went low with a series of left of good punches early but corrigan sent puntillo to the benavides, a dillon sopho-ing rahill and shifting the and right jabs as they danced Futa picking it up at the end, canvas. with a slight height more, started the fight with bout to close-quarters ac-around the ring. ryan fin-including one punch that advantage, puntillo kept out a series of strong combina-tion, landing several punch-ished the contest with a few struck baten squarely in the of reach for most of the sec-tions, which forced holland, es to rahill’s midsection. strong combinations, and he face, sending him stumbling ond round. corrigan skill-a morrissey freshman, into Kocak continued his physi-was rewarded with the split-backwards and sealing the fully cornered puntillo the a defensive stance for most cal fighting in close proxim-decision victory. deal for the judges, who gave next round though, and the of the first round. holland ity into the second round, Futa the unanimous victory. two fighters had each other showed considerable spirit but rahill was able to capi-diego “el Matador” rayas in a hold in the ensuing fin-in the second round, howev-talize by counterattacking defeats John “huge” Pat “Make a Mistake” ish. corrigan was declared er, and cornered benavides against Kocak’s wild punch-hughes o’Shea defeats daniel the winner by unanimous with a series of blows, but es, landing several hard rayas, a senior from “dancing death” Currie decision. benavides countered with blows to the body of Kocak Keough, started out with o’shea, a Keough fresh-
two right hooks and an upper and sending him reeling. multiple uppercut punch-man, came out swinging, in­dan “thunder road” cut. The blows led to a bloody This trend continued in the es to the body of hughes, a stantly overpowering currie, andree def. Sean “the wild nose for holland, and the re-third round, with Kocak’s morrissey freshman, which a Keenan sophomore, with Colonial boy” Clarkin sulting medical break slowed wind-up punches failing pushed the younger fighter a series of hard punches. 
in a bout featuring two res-the action. benavides’s com-to find their mark while into the ropes. in the second currie was checked by medi­idents of alumni, the sopho-bination of hits left holland rahill’s short, powerful and round, hughes adjusted his cal personnel two times in more clarkin sent the junior reeling throughout the third accurate ones proved more strategy and stayed further the first period alone due to andree stumbling between round. in a close finish, effective. rahill eventu-away, using his longer arms the punches he sustained. two corners and the ropes benavides won the match by ally landed a hard punch to to land punches rayas could however, currie managed to to start. andree retaliated split decision. the head of Kocak, prompt-not. both fighters expended salvage the round by land-with a few powerful com-ing a stoppage by the ref-a great deal of energy, land-ing a few good punches to binations that left clarkin brian “Cheese” willis def eree, who called the match ing a flurry of punches to the head of o’shea right be-with a bloody nose as they brennan “the ding-a-in the middle of the third each other. rayas dominated fore the bell sounded. currie finished the first round. ling” dingler round, awarding the victory in the third and final round, came out aggressively to andree left clarkin spinning brian willis, a senior from to rahill by referee-stopped as hughes was unable to start the second round and in the middle of the ring in duncan, started the first contest. land many blows and rayas landed several good punch-the second round, though round with a flurry of punch-repeatedly went on the of-es, but he tired quickly, and he ducked below the junior’s es to the face and body of derek “duane the rock” fensive, forcing hughes to the momentum began to wild right hook. after only dingler, a sophomore from Meyer def. brian “the protect himself. The judges swing towards o’shea. both two rounds, the referee de-alumni. dingler respond-hispanic Causing Panic” declared rayas the victor by fighters were noticeably clared andree the winner by ed with a few punches but brown unanimous decision. tired at the end of the sec-referee-stopped contest. had trouble tightening up The first round was a ond round, but currie began 
his defensive technique. in solid technical fight, with Cam “Crash Cadillac” the third round with energy, eamon “Gravy” Mcosker the second round, dingler’s both fighters unwilling to nolan def. brian “not landing hard punches and def. Max ducey performance picked up, completely go on the offen-Monk” Malloy chasing o’shea around the 
The fight between two se-and although he took more sive but still managing to The bout was extremely ring, eventually cornering niors, ducey, from duncan, blows from willis than he land well-timed punches on physical from the beginning, him against the ropes and and mcosker, from Fisher, landed, his punches struck their opponents. sophomore with the two fighters tying giving o’shea a bloody nose, began with an elaborate hard, taking home the best duncan resident meyer was each other up and falling to prompting a timeout by the dance in the middle of the blows of the round. in the on the offensive from the the floor. both boxers traded referee. o’shea was given ring. mcosker found an edge final round, both boxers start of the second round, many punches in close prox-the victory by unanimous to send ducey on the defen-fought hard and landed an landing several strong imity, which caused the ref-decision. sive in the second round, as equal number of punch-punches and chasing brown eree to step in and pull the ducey was forced to back-es, but willis finished the around the ring. however, two apart multiple times. Contact Elizabeth Greason pedal from corner to cor-round strong by complet-meyer became predictable malloy, an off-campus grad-at egreason@nd.edu, R.J. ner. ducey’s corner called ing a combo punch to the with his punches, and brown uate student, landed a few Stempak at a timeout after mcosker face of dingler just before took advantage with a hard quick punches to start the rstempak@nd.edu, Tobias caught him in the corner the bell rang, and the judges counterblow to the face, round, but nolan, a duncan Hoonhout at  of the ring again. dealing awarded willis the victory causing meyer a bloody nose freshman, quickly countered thoonhou@nd.edu, Victoria with a bloody nose, ducey by unanimous decision. that temporarily stopped and landed blow after blow Llorens at vllorens@nd.edu, came out with renewed vig-the fight. after the timeout, to drive malloy back into the Tony Zappia at  or following the break as adam “bear” rainey def. both fighters held steady ropes. both fighters faced azappia@nd.edu, Dominic he dodged mcosker’s more James o’toole until the end of the second several counterattacks in the Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu, aggressive hits and landed both fighters began the round. The match picked up second round. in the third Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu a few of his own, but it ul-first round feeling each in physicality and energy in round, both fighters were and Maureen Schweninger at timately was not enough to other’s styles out, but the the third round, as meyer visibly tired but still fought mschweni@nd.edu 

The observer | Monday, february 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


barrage. as the first round macgregor exited the ring evenly matched. however, control from there. manno 
bouts 

came to an end, martinez with a victory by unanimous after trapping hundman in connected multiple times to 
conTinued From page 16 

landed a few head jabs while decision. corner, angelotti fell over. the head and secured a vic­
poczobutt swung for the hundman’s punches began tory by unanimous decision. the fight went on, and both fences. The second round 144 pounds to grow more effective as fighters began to aim for opened with martinez con-angelotti tired, leading to Steven ramos def. alex their opponent’s head. Jaeger tinuing his head jabs while alex “el Cadejo” alcantara hundman’s victory by unan-“roth of God” roth was cornered again, but was poczobutt left it all in the def. liam “neeson” imous decision. The match began with able to escape with a jab to ring, connecting with body Gallagher Zahm sophomore ramos argue’s gut. Jaeger recov-to head combinations. off-campus junior Conor “baby face” ward coming out strong, ducking ered well in the third round, Towards the end of the alcantara started the match def. arun “bollywood and dodging roth’s punch-attacking argue’s head, but round martinez went for a off with an up-tempo attack. basher” nadar es while landing his own. argue returned those jabs potential match-changing The law student gallagher nadar controlled the first The graduate student roth to the head, almost knock-uppercut but did not con-had a significant height ad-round by attacking imme-retreated throughout the ing Jaeger over. argue won nect. This opened the door vantage, but alcantara kept diately. he was able to trap round, trying to avoid the the fight with a unanimous for poczobutt to land his his attacks low from the ward against the ropes and barrage of punches from decision. biggest hit of the match, start. his incessant attacks in the corner on multiple ramos. ramos had roth on 
knocking martinez to the to gallagher’s torso forced occasions. nadar’s strategy the ropes for the majority John “Goose” hunter def. ground. after the match re-gallagher to be purely de-was to attack ward’s body of the time until roth coun­lorenzo “locab” Cabrera sumed pozcobutt attacked fensive throughout the fight and keep him on defense, tered and put ramos into the 
hunter, a sophomore from with a relentless barrage of and alcantara was able to however, ward was able corner right before the bell Fisher hall, took control punches to end the round. trap gallagher in the cor-to defend himself against rang to end the round. in the of the fight immediately in the third round martinez ner on multiple occasions. nadar’s attacks. in the sec-second round ramos found with big hits to sorin junior tried his hardest to close the gallagher lost his balance ond round, ward turned the an opening and connected. carbrera’s head. carbrera gap, but poczobutt stayed almost immediately in the momentum around. his long roth used his reach and kept was able to recover by at-conservative and on the de-second round, nearly fall-reach allowed him to attack his distance but could not get tacking hunter in the gut, fensive, securing a victory ing. most of the attempts and rendered nadar’s at-through ramos’s strong de­but hunter’s mobility al-by unanimous decision. gallagher made on alcantara tempts to make contact inef-fensive technique. The third lowed him to evade cabrera. missed completely. The fast-fective. ward trapped nadar round opened with roth try-hunter forced cabrera to Cameron MacGregor def. paced match culminated against the ropes and was ing to catch up. he landed a move around the ring. To lan “not a boxer” nguyen with alcantara beginning able to attack by being in few blows and dodged most start the second round, alumni senior macgregor to aim for gallagher’s head, close contact with nadar. in of ramos’s punches. The cabrera was able to go on started the match with a as opposed to just the torso. the final round, the match third round was highlighted the offensive, and trapped strong first round. his oppo-alcantara won by unani-evened out slightly more, by an impressive dodge by hunter against the ropes. as nent, nguyen, a senior from mous decision. but ward was able to knock roth that knocked ramos off the round went on, hunter duncan, attempted to keep nadar over into the ropes balance and to the ground. became much more aggres-the fighting in close quarters Chase “birdlike frame” and force him off balance The strong third round by sive and got into close con-throughout the round, but hundman def. dom “nic-multiple times, leading to roth was unable to make up tact with cabrera, making macgregor stayed aggres-nack” angelotti his victory by unanimous for the dominance by ramos his jabs to the face much sive, controlling the battle The match got off to a decision. in the beginning though, more impactful. cabrera re-with hard hits to nguyen’s fast start as law student and ramos left the ring as covered with a strong right head. The round closed with hundman’s height ad-Matthew “Mr. January” the victor by split decision. hook to hunter’s head but nguyen on the ropes tak-vantage allowed him to yoder def. “action” Jackson was mainly kept in a defen-ing a barrage of hits from go for carroll sophomore lawlor danny “nacho tigre” sive stance throughout the macgregor. The physicality angelotti’s head immediate-yoder, a sophomore from espinoza def. eric “bee” match. The judges awarded continued into the second ly. an especially strong hit to o’neill hall, and lawlor, a lee hunter the victory by unani-round with punches flying the head knocked angelotti junior from Zahm, began the in the battle of two st. mous decision. left and right. macgregor, off balance, but he was able first round trading blows. edward’s fighters, senior 
maintaining control, to recover. angelotti end-lawlor tied yoder up thanks danny espinoza landed the Jonah “Clown baby” knocked nguyen into the ed the round with an im-to his height advantage mid-first punches of the match Poczobutt def. andres ropes and down to force a pactful flurry of punches, way through the first round, on the sophomore lee. lee “the Gavel” Martinez short break. after nguyen’s trapping hundman in the but yoder went on the offen-fought back and the two off-campus law student bloodied nose and cut arm corner. in the second round sive late in the round.  yoder traded punches for the rest of poczobutt opened the match were cleaned, the close battle hundman defended himself started the second round the first round, but espinoza on the offensive with a se-resumed and the round end-well, rendering angelotti’s aggressively, but lawlor landed more powerful ries of body jabs and hooks ed. The third round opened jabs meaningless. angelotti matched him blow for blow. blows. in the second round, to the head of his opponent, with macgregor fighting was able to trap hundman in the third, lawlor went espinoza wasted no time as martinez. The morrissey defensively to maintain his in the corner, but hundman on the attack early, running he quickly went on the at-sophomore countered by lead. nguyen fought hard escaped, trapping angelotti yoder around the ring and tack, landing many strong staying defensive, not taking and gained some ground, in a headlock. in the fi-forcing him into the ropes. punches. espinoza and lee many hits after the initial but it was not enough as nal round, the two seemed The high-energy round end-began the third round with a ed once again with the two heated exchange, but late in contestants matching one the round, the two seemed another blow for blow, but content to dance around the yoder claimed the victory by ring, and this pattern was split decision. only broken by espinoza 
occasionally tying lee up. thomas Manno def. henry espinoza claimed the vic­“hd3” davis III tory by unanimous victory. 
Zahm sophomore manno began the match with fierce Jeffrey “J-weezy” wang def. aggression, pushing his Miguel “Miggie Smalls” opponent all around the naguit ring. Freshman davis trad-The first round began ed punches with manno with wang, a senior living but was forced to retreat off-campus, and naguit, throughout the round. The an off-campus law student, round ended after manno trading blows. both fight-landed a punishing blow to ers were looking for an early the stomach of davis. The knockout, and they landed second round was an even some big jabs, but many contest, with davis getting punches came up empty as around manno’s punches well. wang started the sec-and trading blows back and ond round well and landed forth. The round ended af-blow after blow on naguit. ter a combination of misses Towards the end of the from davis and successful round, naguit started to find connection from manno. his footing and was able to The third and final round land some punches of his began with a strong hit own. The third round saw from davis, but manno took the two fighters play a game of cat and mouse, but wang decision. landed a big right jab at the end of the bout that shook andrew Jena def. kieran up naguit, and before the Carroll law student was able to re-The next bout of the night cover the final bell sounded. featured Jena, a junior from wang was declared the win-siegfried, against carroll, ner by unanimous decision. an off-campus senior. The 




first round was an even af­152 pounds fair, with both fighters stay­
ing light on their feet and Shawn “el Chino” lee def. trading quick punches. but Justin “bedrock” Grocock carroll came out in the 

grocock, a freshman from second round with a new sorin, and lee, an off-cam-intensity, landing several pus senior, matched each punches in the early stages. other blow for blow early as the round wore on, how-in a high-intensity first ever, Jena became more and round. lee brought move-more aggressive, and the bell ment and energy to the ring, sounded with the siegfried but grocock’s long reach junior pushing his oppo­allowed him to land sev-nent back into the ropes. eral shots to the head. lee Jena came back in the third went on the attack in the round before a right jab from second round, landing sev-carroll caught him off bal­eral punches early, dodg-ance and dropped him to the ing grocock’s punches and canvas, and carroll was de­moving around the ring. in clared the winner by unani­the third round, lee landed mous decision. alex “la forte” Jones def. 157 pounds entering the final round, as several powerful punches Matt “Mamba” evans swan began to lose some of early, forcing a brief stop-liam “trooper” Chan def. The first round began Matthew “yeoman” his initial explosiveness. page. lee continued to land Qinfeng wu with both fighters attempt-Schaefer def. Jeff Graziano Towards the end of the final shots to both grocock’s face chan, a senior from ing to land shots to the head. schaefer, an off-campus round, coles appeared to and body after the break and alumni, quickly seized the They fought in close quar-senior, defeated Keough find a second wind fueled by was declared victorious by advantage in the first mo-ters and had to be broken sophomore graziano, as a rowdy morrissey fan sec-unanimous decision. ments of the fight, and wu, apart by the referee after both boxers started fast in tion, but he could not make 
an off-campus graduate stu-clinching. Jones, an off-the first round with lots of up the difference, as swan austin “the Sleeper” dent, had his hands up pro-campus graduate student, movement around the ring, won by unanimous decision. Cartier def. luke “Mickey” tecting his head for most of was able to keep evans, an though schaefer got in a se-McCormack the round. Towards the end off-campus sophomore, off-ries of punches to close the Sean himel def. kevin 
The fight between of the round, the fight start-balance and pursued him round. in the second round, “tough love” McCarthy mccormack, an off-campus ed to open up, and both fight-around the ring. The round the fighters had to be sepa-The first round started senior, and cartier, an off-ers traded blows as the bell ended with evans steadily rated multiple times, and with himel, a senior from campus junior, began with sounded. The second stanza blocking Jones’s punches. the two showed signs of duncan, on the offensive plenty of movement but little began and once again, chan both fighters had a strong fatigue as the round wore probing for a weakness. but punching. however, cartier started off strong, landing performance in the second on. graziano turned to his mccarthy, a sophomore went on the attack late in the several blows to his oppo-round, as Jones advanced defense at the end of the from st. edward’s, held his first round, landing a pow-nent’s head. wu also landed on evans, who dodged second round, then fought ground. as the round con­erful punch to the head of several punches but was on his punches. They traded back in the final round as tinued, himel started to land mccormack. in the second his back foot for most of the punches with throughout both appeared exhausted, blow after blow, and the bell round, both fighters demon-round, and chan chased him the round and across the but schaefer emerged with was a welcome reprieve for strated their dodging abil-around the ring until the entire ring. in the third the victory by unanimous mccarthy. The second round ity, as a plethora of powerful bell rang. chan asserted his round, Jones began by pep-decision. started much the same way, punches were thrown but dominance over the smaller pering evans with punch-and himel continued to few connected. both fighters wu in the third round and es. evans then launched a ryan “attila the” dunn pound mccarthy with little landed punches more suc-landed numerous blows. counterattack and pursued def. adam “Pasquatch” respite. mccarthy tried to cessfully early in the third wu did his best to hang on, Jones around the ring un-Pasquinelly get back into it towards the round with mccormack but he had few chances for til the end of the round, but The first round started end of the round, but the bell landing more to the body a counterattack, and chan the judges awarded Jones with pasquinelly, a duncan sounded to end his come-and cartier landing more to was declared the winner by the victory by unanimous junior, fighting very aggres-back attempt. mccarthy the face. Thanks to his early unanimous decision. decision. sively. however, dunn, a se-tried to rally in the final hit and late flurries, cartier nior from Knott, responded round and land a few punch-was declared the victor by Jack “hi my name is liam” Philip “Gunz” Park def. with several big blows to es, but himel yet again dom­split decision. Mcdermott def. Zach Johnny “Juicy” Malin pasquinelly, and the ref-inated from start to finish, 
“Scooter” Mastrovich The first round between eree demanded a stoppage and when the bell sounded, Patrick “Payday” yerkes The first round was an two morrissey residents was to check on pasquinelly, but he was named the victor by def. robert “r. kelly” even affair, as both fight-a quick affair, as both fight-the fight resumed shortly. in unanimous decision. devine ers danced around the ring ers came out aggressively. the second round, the ref­
devine, an off-campus and traded blows, probing The freshman park man-eree halted the bout once Michael “the ko” feijoo graduate student, began the each other for weaknesses. aged to land several strong more after dunn connect-def. Phil “the thriller” fight by trying to go low and mastrovich, a junior from hooks, but malin, a junior, ed on another hard punch. Stenger landing punches to the body duncan, came out swing-also connected on a few still, pasquinelly kept fight-at the beginning of of patrick yerkes, a junior ing in the second round punches as the bell sound-ing and cornered dunn. The the fight, Feijoo, a fresh-from st. edward’s. yerkes and kept freshman o’neill ed. both fighters started final round featured a third man from morrissey, pur­began to have some suc-resident mcdermott on the second round by trad-stoppage for pasquinelly, sued stenger, a junior from cess when he forced devine his back foot. mcdermott ing punches as neither com-and the judges awarded siegfried, with quick attacks to stand upright and capi-worked his way back into petitor backed down. malin dunn the win by unanimous before retreating to defend. talized by landing punches the contest, and the bell and park both landed solid decision. stenger landed several hits to his face. in the second sounded as the freshman blows, and the decision was to the body, and Feijoo fol-round, devine continued landed several punches on still up for grabs at the end dean “the undertaker” lowed up with quick jabs to stay low and attempted mastrovich. The final round of the round. both fight-Swan def. Chris “Crispy” that stenger blocked. again to move yerkes around the began with mcdermott us-ers went all out for the win Coles Feijoo attacked quickly at ring. however, yerkes land-ing his longer reach to at-in the third round. malin neither dillon sophomore the beginning of the second ed several quality punches tack mastrovich from a was able to land several swan and morrissey sopho-round, aiming for stenger’s as devine began to tire. in distance. as the round drew good hits to keep park on more coles made a strong head, while the latter coun­the third round, both fight-on, the junior attempted to his back foot, but park was impression in the first tered with multiple blows ers swung freely at the head rally, but mcdermott stood able to land several blows of round. however, swan took to Feijoo’s body. The final as a fatigued devine aban-tall and kept landing blows. his own as the round drew charge in the second round round started like the oth­doned his defensive strat-mcdermott was awarded to a close, doing enough to and never looked back, land-ers, as Feijoo came out with egy. yerkes was declared the fight by unanimous earn himself the win by split ing a series of hits to coles. victorious by unanimous decision. decision. The fighters slowed down see bouTs PaGe 10 


The observer | Monday, february 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

never really threatened by 
hockey 
maine over the weekend, 
conTinued From page 16 
the black bears actually out-
shot the irish in both the to the net, which he did. and second and third periods sometimes it just sneaks in. on saturday, racking up 41 everyone’s happy for him. shots total on petersen. he’s a great guy. it was good “i think we’re doing real-to see that.” ly well right now,” petersen 
dipauli also played a large said. “i think probably the role in Friday night’s win, biggest part is if one part of scoring notre dame’s first our game is lacking there’s goal and then added an emp-another part there to pick it ty net insurance goal in the up. we kind of balance each closing minutes. other out well. guys are do-
senior left winger mario ing their jobs, understand­lucia added a power-play ing their roles. it’s nobody goal just a minute and a half trying to do too much. i think after Jenkins’ goal, pushing this was kind of a dangerous the irish lead to two goals weekend looking in [towards with less than ten minutes the end of the season] just to play. because, obviously, looking 
“right now, with this forward to providence and team, i just have to assume bu, and i think guys handled that somebody’s gonna step themselves really well and up,” irish head coach Jeff were able to execute in kind Jackson said Friday night. of a challenging situation.” “it’s the dog days right now. because no. 3 boston it’s also playoff time. These college skated to a 5-5 tie games are almost like play-at merrimack on saturday off hockey.” night, the irish sit alone atop 
notre dame came in the conference standings saturday night looking to with just four games left to build on the momentum play. from Friday night’s third pe-“we’ve tried to stay fo­riod breakout, and it did just cused on the next game,” that. Jackson said. “That’s the 
sophomore center Jake mantra around here; the evans staked the irish to a next game’s the most impor­first-period lead when he cut tant game. one of our goals between two defenders and is to get to boston garden, slipped the puck between and in order to do that, fin-the morris’ legs. ishing in the top four, and 
senior left wing sam herr, the higher you finish the bet-sophomore forwards connor ter you are, because it leads hurley and anders bjork and to home ice. it leads to last freshman left wing dylan changes. it gives you advan­malmquist each scored a tages, so the higher we finish goal for the irish on their the better. and if we can win way to a five-goal lead. a championship along the 
sophomore goaltender cal way, that’d be great. we’ve petersen surrendered a late got four games ahead of us, 

irish led by 12 points at the on motley, but Thomas re-goal to maine, preventing but Friday night’s the only 
w bball end of the first quarter, 19 ally played well.” 
conTinued From page 16 
his first shutout of the sea-thing that matters at this 

at the half and as many as sunday’s matchup also son, something petersen and point.” 
36 in the fourth quarter. served as notre dame’s an-the irish have been working notre dame returns to ac-
controlling the ball, turn-“notre dame does that nual pinkZone game, part for more and more recently. tion Friday for a road series 
ing it over 23 times. miami to you because you feel of the play4Kay series of “it’s kinda getting weird against no. 5 providence 
(22-4, 9-4) collected 21 like you’re just chasing the women’s college basketball now,” petersen said. “i keep before closing out the sea-
of its 69 points off irish ball around,” meier said. games held nationwide to telling myself that maybe son the following weekend 
giveaways. “i mean, it gets deflating. raise awareness for breast i’m saving [a shutout] for against visiting no. 7 boston 
“really sloppy — i think it hurts your ability to be, cancer while honoring the later, but i guess we’re kinda university. 
that they were careless ‘oh, i’m gonna get up in life of late north carolina running out of games for me 
turnovers,” mcgraw said. “i them, i’m gonna get up in state head coach Kay yow. to do that.” Contact Hunter McDaniel at 
don’t think they were creat-them.’ and then they’re The irish played in an al-Though notre dame was hmcdani1@nd.edu 
ed by the pressure as much like, ‘layup. darn. oh, al-ternate gray uniform with 
as by ourselves, trying to ley-oop.’ They do deflate pink accenting, while the 
overpass, which happens you with their ball move-hurricanes took the court 
sometimes when you have ment, but no excuse.” in pink jerseys. 
an unselfish team.” Freshman guard arike The win also marked the 
“my god, if they hadn’t ogunbowale paced notre first game notre dame 
turned it over 23 times, they dame with 18 points while has played since mcgraw 
would’ve had 115 points on Turner (15), allen (12) and was named a finalist for 
us, for real,” miami head freshman guard marina the naismith memorial 
coach Katie meier said. mabrey (14) also finished in basketball hall of Fame 
while the irish scored double figures. class of 2016 last Friday, 
easily and often for the miami junior guard alongside nba legends 
first three-and-a-half quar-Jessica Thomas and fresh-such as allen iverson and 
ters of the game, the same man forward/center emese shaquille o’neal. 
cannot be said for the hof each totaled 12 points “it’s an honor just to be on 
hurricanes, who shot just for the hurricanes as notre the ballot,” mcgraw said. 
30.6 percent in the first half dame managed to hold “it just speaks to all the and 38.2 percent for the their usual scoring lead-amazing women i’ve had game. irish sophomore for-er, junior guard adrienne the chance to coach, all the ward brianna Turner tallied motley, in check with just amazing assistant coaches. a season-high six blocks as eight points. i’ve had so much help — a she led a defensive front “our 2-3 zone was very lot of people around me that outmatched and out-effective,” mcgraw said. making me look good. i’m sized miami’s offense. “They’ve got great guards. honored.” 
The hurricanes had trou-Thomas and motley are two ble stopping notre dame of the best in the conference, Contact Mary Green at on offense as well, and the and we did a pretty good job mgreen8@nd.edu 






a Jackson layup capped a quick auguste closed the game out Mazurek 7-0 burst to pull notre dame with two final free-throws. 
conTinued From page 16 

back into the game. against north carolina, it was Following the teams trading the same story. Jackson led the 
and the most important word a couple baskets, Jackson then way with 19 points, but all five in that last sentence is “team.” hit his career-high sixth 3-point starters had double digits. as well as last year’s squad per-shot to trim the deficit with even off of the court, irish formed, it was really the Jerian 8:26 remaining in the game. a head coach mike brey spoke grant and pat connaughton vasturia layup cut the louisville to the shared leadership of this show. grant was the one who lead to one and then beachem year’s team. had the ball in the final min-came up with a block on the “one of the things i wasn’t utes of every game last year defensive end and senior for-sure about, but i’m so proud and the team lived on his and ward Zach auguste threw down of is our leadership going into connaughton’s leadership. a dunk to give the irish their first this season,” brey said. “The job 
many people thought junior lead of the second half. that those four guys [Jackson, guard demetrius Jackson would as the irish continued to auguste, vasturia and senior be this year’s grant. Jackson grind out the final minutes, forward a.J. burgett]  are do-is notre dame’s best player key rebounds by beachem and ing, setting the tone, running and the only game he missed, sophomore forward bonzie our team, i am so pleased. The against syracuse, the irish lost colson sealed the victory for the two guys we lost [grant and by 15. irish. connaughton] were sitting 
his career-high with five made it is fitting then that it was what the two halves of the across from us tonight, it was 
M bball 
3-pointers by halftime to keep conTinued From page 16 during a game with grant and louisville game show is that if cool to look over and see those 

notre dame in the game. Jackson connaughton looking on from the irish plan to compete for an two guys, they did an unbeliev­
buried another shot from beyond the sidelines that this year’s acc title, they need every one able job, this group, these guys 
take advantage of that, not be pas-the arc in the second half to push team learned they need more of their starters to perform at a are doing as good a job.” 
sive and just stay within ourselves his final count to a career-best six than just Jackson. high level. and while Jackson will con-
and play our game, which is get-3s. in the first half against yes, it all starts with Jackson. tinue to draw comparisons to 
ting to the bucket and attacking.” “i think i just shot myself into louisville, Jackson had 20 points he needs to be able to drive grant as the season nears its 
despite being down by as many it today,” Jackson said. “i was and broke his career-high in to the basket and create op-climax, this year’s irish squad 
as 11 points, notre dame found a just stepping up confidently, in 3-pointers made by going 5-for-portunities for everyone else; will not live and die on the per-
surge of offense in the second half rhythm just trying to shoot shots. 8 from behind the arc. despite but everyone else has to step formance of one player. 
that put it on a 13-5 run over the fi-i tried to find the areas to pick my Jackson’s performance, the irish up. auguste needs to take ad-“we have some fearless guys 
nal six minutes of the game. it be-spots.” trailed by seven going into the vantage of the pick-and-rolls and boy it comes at just the right 
gan with vasturia penetrating the auguste had a double-double locker room. Jackson creates, vasturia has time with march around the 
cardinals’ sixth-ranked scoring on the night adding 11 points and Jackson only scored seven to ball-handle and create his corner,” brey said. 
defense on two straight posses-hauling in 12 boards, and sopho­points in the second half, yet own shots, colson has to get the it sure does come at the right 
sions midway through the second more bonzie colson scored eight notre dame stormed back to loose balls and rebounds and time — because great teams 
half. it then snowballed into a points and brought in another 10 beat one of  the best defensive beachem needs to make 3-point win in march, not just great 
3-pointer by vasturia and layups rebounds to help notre dame win teams in the conference. in fact, baskets. players. 
by junior forward v.J. beachem the rebound battle 40-29. the game’s most crucial stretch saturday night, the start-
and Jackson. with three straight wins over saw very little of Jackson. The ers stepped up. vasturia had Contact Marek Mazurek at 
The irish connected on seven north carolina, clemson and irish trailed by ten when junior 15 second-half points to help mmazurek@nd.edu 
straight field goals, which was louisville, brey said he is con-guard steve vasturia sunk a Jackson out. colson chipped in The views expressed in this 
capped off with an emphatic slam vinced that the team’s identity 3-pointer and junior forward v.J. eight points with 10 rebounds. column are those of the author 
by senior forward Zach auguste has been solidified. beachem put in a layup to cut beachem hit a key 3-point and not necessarily those of 
to take the lead for the first time in “we have been really cruel the cardinals’ lead to five and shot in the final minutes, and The Observer. 
the second half. competitors this past week, and 
notre dame’s stellar offense in i couldn’t be prouder,” brey said. the second half was accompanied “when we sense it, we go for it and by an equally dominant defense. we know how to finish. last year’s The irish held the cardinals to team did that. This year’s team just 29.2 percent from the floor had not shown that really until in the second half after allow-last saturday. we had to do it in ing 48.5 percent of their shots to [greenville, north carolina] and connect in the first. graduate we had to do it again tonight, so student guard damion lee, who i’m excited about that aspect of us averages 16.5 points per game, led that personality of our team com-the cardinals with 13 points. all ing out.” four of his made field goals were at 9-4 in acc play and tied for 3-pointers. third in the conference standings, 
lee had an opportunity to tie the irish are in position to clinch the game with 15 seconds left a double-bye in the acc tourna­in the game, but missed on an ment next month. no. 9 north off-balance 3-point attempt. carolina sits atop the conference beachem missed a free throw on at 10-2 in acc action and no. 12 the other end, however, giving miami (Fla.) sits alone in second lee another opportunity with just at 8-3. brey said he believes his a few seconds remaining, but he team can also make a serious run missed again. auguste drained at the regular season title, though. two free throws to seal the win af-“what i’ll talk to them about ter pulling in the rebound. tomorrow is not so much the 
“i talked to my team on ncaa tournament, because ob-Thursday as we got ready for this viously our resume after today is matchup that so much would be extremely strong, but now you’re made of the best offense in the getting into that double-bye ter­league, us, against the best de-ritory and now you’re getting into fense in the league,” irish head that,” brey said. “but why not talk coach mike brey said. “i said, about a regular season champi­‘you know, i would really like the onship? last year’s team chased story to be about our defense and the regular season title till about would love to come off the floor the last week of the season, and so at [6 p.m.] with our defense being why not chase that? i think those the difference.’ and the second are the things we’ll come back to.” half, to hold them to 23 points and The irish will have a week off rebound the way we did, i thought to rest before starting their final that was the key to the game.” road trip of the regular season in 
in the first half, the irish strug-atlanta against georgia Tech on gled to find any offense inside saturday. the paint which gave Jackson the green light to be aggressive Contact Manny De Jesus at from beyond the arc. Jackson tied mdejesus@nd.edu 




The observer | Monday, february 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Men’S baSketball | nd 71, louisville 66 
Second half shows Irish are more than just Jackson 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
when notre dame students stormed the court last saturday after the team’s win against then-no. 2 north carolina, many as­sumed it was a one-time deal. a brief moment of elation in what would be viewed as an alright season. 
after a road victory over clemson and saturday’s take-down of no. 13 louisville, how­ever, it has become blindingly apparent that this year’s irish (18-7, 9-4 acc) are not going anywhere. 
notre dame is now fourth place in the acc which means it’s in double-bye territory for the conference tournament. The irish were already a lock for the ncaa tournament, but they’ve now shown they will be a tough team to knock out. 
see maZureK PaGe 15 

back in the mix 

Jackson, Vasturia lead Notre Dame to comeback victory 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
For the second saturday in a row, notre dame overcame a double-digit second-half deficit to claim a victory in front of a sold-out crowd. 
only this time, the irish (18­7, 9-4 acc) rallied largely be­hind the efforts its junior guards demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia to take down no. 13 louisville, 71-66. 
Jackson tied his career-high with 27 points against the cardinals (19-6, 8-4), with 20 of those points coming in the first half. vasturia picked up the offen­sive load in the second half scor­ing 15 of his 20 points. 
“[we were] just attacking and going downhill trying to create [shots] for ourselves and for oth­ers,” Jackson said. “with their defense, we had a lot of opportuni­ties to attack. so we just wanted to 
see m bball PaGe 15 
benGal boutS 
86th bengal bouts underway 

By ELIZABETH GREASON, 
R.J. STEMPAK, TOBIAS HOONHOUT, VICTORIA LLORENS, TONY ZAPPIA, DOMINIC IANNELLI, JOE EVERETT and MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writers 
137 pounds 
James “don’t try to” argue 
def.  Zach  “yagerbomb”  
Jaeger  
argue,  a  junior  

representing sorin hall, went on the offensive at the sound of the opening bell, causing duncan freshman Jaeger to lose his balance and almost trip. argue was able to defend himself suc­cessfully and go back on the offensive. argue was able to corner Jaeger, but Jaeger re­covered well and was able to escape. The two became increasingly aggressive as 
see bouTs PaGe 12 

nd woMen’S baSketball | nd 90, miami (Fla.) 69 
Irish dominate Hurricanes 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 

since joining the confer­ence two-plus seasons ago, no. 3 notre dame had lost just once to an acc team, a defeat that came to miami (Fla.) last season. 
The irish made sure loss no. 2 didn’t come to the no. 19 hurricanes on sunday, when they cruised to a 90­69 win at purcell pavilion. 
notre dame (24-1, 12-0 acc) avoided a potential early pitfall delivered four minutes into the game, when junior guard lindsay allen was whistled for her second foul and stayed on the bench for the rest of the first half. 
while the irish have struggled in previous games without allen on the court, they hit their stride this time around, shooting 
61.5 percent in the first half with senior guard michaela mabrey piloting the offense to a 44-25 halftime lead. 
“i think with michaela in the game, she’s smart, and she’s gonna get us into stuff,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “she’s going to get the right people the ball. i was surprised we were up by that much at halftime without lindsay in the game.” 
however, without allen, whose 2.4 assist-to-turn­over ratio leads the acc, notre dame had trouble 
see w bball PaGe 14 

hoCkey | nd 4, maine 1; nd 5, maine 1 
ND tops Maine to take first 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 

The irish find them­selves alone in first place in hockey east after a weekend sweep of maine at home. 
no. 8 notre dame (18-5-7, 14-2-2 hockey east) never trailed the black bears (7­19-6, 4-12-2) in either game, using a three-goal third pe­riod to secure a 4-1 victory Friday before cruising to a 5-1 win saturday. 
The irish and the black bears skated to a 1-1 tie through two periods Friday night as maine junior goal­tender matt morris seemed determined to win the game himself, stopping 30 shots along the way. 
notre dame broke through midway in the third period, however, on a goal from freshman right winger Jack Jenkins. it was just his second goal of the season, and his first ca­reer game winner. he filled in for injured freshman center andrew oglevie this weekend. 
“it was huge with [oglevie] out of the lineup,” irish senior center Thomas dipauli said of Jenkins’ per­formance Friday night. “we knew that Jenks had to play a good game, and he did. he did everything that was asked of him. it’s always awesome to see a guy like that bury one. sometimes it just takes getting the puck 
see hocKey PaGe 14 






