The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 112 | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Governor vetoes 
Irish fall in Elite Eight 
North Carolina tops Notre Dame for second time in March 



House Bill 1022 

By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
indiana gov. mike pence vetoed a bill Thursday that would allow private univer­sity police departments to fol­low different crime reporting standards than other police agencies. 
house bill 1022, introduced in January by state rep. patrick bauer (d-south bend), would have changed state law to require private university police departments to release records relating only to ar­rests and incarcerations. 
“Throughout my public career, i have long believed in the public’s right to know and a free and independent press,” pence said in a written statement. “limiting access to police records in a situa­tion where private university police departments perform a government function is a disservice to the public and an unnecessary barrier to transparency.” 
The bill was approved by a unanimous vote in the house and a 49-to-1 vote in the senate. Thursday was the last day for pence to sign or veto the bill. otherwise, it would have become law without his signature. 
bauer, a co-author of the 
see veTo PAGE 5 

2014 sexual assault reported to University 
Observer Staff Report 
a rape was reported to a university administrator march 22, according to the notre dame security police (ndsp) crime log for march 23. 
The alleged rape occurred on an unknown date in 2014 in a notre dame residence hall, according to the crime log entry. 
The Jeanne clery act, origi­nally known as the campus security act, is the federal law that details how and what universities and colleges are required to disclose in terms of crime on campus, accord­ing to the clery center for security on campus. in ac­cordance with this regula­tion, students did not receive an ndsp crime alert email 
detailing  the  allegations  
when they  were  reported  to  
the university.  

both the daily crime log kept by ndsp and the crime alert emails the notre dame com­munity receives are the result of regulations in the clery act. 
The clery act requires univer­sities and colleges to “issue timely warnings about clery act crimes which pose a seri­ous or ongoing threat to stu­dents and employees.” These crimes fall into three major categories: criminal offens­es, hate crimes and arrests and referrals for disciplinary action. 
because the clery act does not dictate a timeframe or requirement for a “timely” warning, crimes that are re­ported a significant amount of time after they occur may not meet the timeliness stan­dard. ndsp judges on a case­by-case basis whether or not the reported incident neces­sitates an alert based on its timeliness and whether or not the offender in question poses a threat to the community at large. 
information about sexual assault prevention and re­sources for survivors of sexual assault are available online from ndsp and from the committee for sexual assault prevention (csap). 


Professor emeritus dies 
Observer Staff Report 
paul r. chagnon, professor emeritus of physics, died march 22 at the age of 86, according to a press release issued by the university on Tuesday. 
“chagnon taught physics and conducted research in nuclear physics at notre dame for 32 years before retiring in 1995. he published numerous articles on his research, and was admired as a stalwart of notre dame’s physics faculty. his teaching is honored annually at notre dame’s commencement cer­emonies by the undergraduate paul chagnon service award,” the release stated. 
chagnon graduated from holy cross college in worcester, massachusetts in 1950 and re­ceived a doctoral degree from Johns hopkins university in 1955. 
“he taught at the university of michigan, northwestern university and boston university before joining notre dame’s faculty in 1963,” the re­lease stated. 
chagnon’s funeral mass will be celebrated at 3:30 p.m. wednesday in the basilica of the sacred heart. 


event explores immigration 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
nd votes ’16 hosted the lat­est installment of “pizza, pop and politics” in geddes hall on Tuesday night to discuss immigration and american policy. guest speakers in­cluded Jennifer Jones, as­sistant sociology professor, and luis Fraga, professor of political science and arthur Foundation endowed professor of Transformative latino leadership. 
Jones said united states immigration policy has been very fluid throughout the country’s history. 
see policy PAGE 4 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you could write your own fortune cookie message, what would it be? 



Betelhem Hailu 
junior 
ryan hall 
“aim for the moon and you’ll land on the stars.” 
Erin McDonagh 
senior 
lyons hall 
“stay away from the abyss.” 
Whitney Bellant 
senior 
lyons hall 
“pivot ... pivot! pivoT!” 
Marisa Thompson 
senior 
mcglinn hall 
“don’t sweat it.” 
Georges Cissé 
junior off campus 
“your gpa does not define you — even if it kind of does, though.” 
Michelle Lacouture 
junior 
walsh hall 
“muscle comes with age.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Want your event included here? 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Physics Colloquium Promoting Diversity Comparative Politics Interfaith Crawl 2016 Human Dignity 
Systems & Web Administrators 

(574)631-8839 Nieuwland Science Geddes Hall Workshop Coleman Morse Lecture Hall 3:30 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center for Center McKenna Hall 
Policies 

4 p.m. - 5 p.m. Discussion about International Studies 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre On the galactic community 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Visit various faith John Cardinal 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, planetary census. engagement. Research forum. traditions in Michiana. Onaiyekan will speak. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. ND Softball vs. IPFW “1916: The Irish Acappellafest 2016 ND Softball vs. Rejoice! Mass 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Melissa Cook Stadium Rebellion” Screening Carey Auditorium Florida State Dillon Hall possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
5 p.m. - 7 p.m. DeBartolo Performing 8 p.m. Melissa Cook Stadium 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, The No. 22 Irish  Arts Center See all five ND 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. Mass rooted in 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not take on the 8:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. acappella groups The Irish take on the African-American necessarily those of The observer. 
Mastodons. Includes keynote. perform. Tickets $5. Seminoles. tradition. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Student examines socialism 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 

post office information “communism eliminates pri-“in socialism, you work hard and you 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday By NICOLE CARATAS 
except during exam and vacation periods. saint mary’s editor vate property completely,” she said. get far,” she said. “however, you have 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. “[socialism] has government programs people helping you. you have programs 
The observer is published at: 

024 south dining hall sophomore morgan matthews ex-where the government does have in-helping you. you have the system help­
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices plained the meanings of socialism and fluence and most of the ownership. ing you. it’s not to each his own, it’s not a 
posTmasTer 

send address corrections to: communism in a saint mary’s Justice however, you do have your own private dog-eat-dog world. it’s everyone is hop-
The observer 

p.o. box 779 education program presentation property.” ing you get far in life and everyone is 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-077 Tuesday. she said presidential candidate helping you get far in life — they’re not 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 

all reproduction rights are reserved. matthews defined socialism as “vari-bernie sanders has brought socialism trying to draw you back.” ous economic or political theories that to the forefront of american politics. according to matthews, socialism in advocate for collective or government “because of the cold war and the iron the united states does not look like so-ownership and administration based curtain, people think of socialism as cialism as the entire economic system, on production and means of goods,” being the same as communism,” she but rather focuses on democratic social-which may or may not include private said. “communism is a complete radi-ism. she said she wants americans to 

News Sports 

selenaponio ben padanilam property based on the different branch-calization of what socialism means, and learn what socialism is instead of shying andrea vale manny de Jesus 
es of socialism. … democratic socialism is how people away from it out of fear of communism. 
Justine wang r.J. stempak 

according to matthews, the top 10 so-presently have been using socialism in “you use different aspects of the 
Graphics Scene 

cialist countries are china, denmark, the government. types of government,” she said. “you 
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 
Finland, The netherlands, canada, “instead of government controlling use capitalism regarding some as-
Photo Viewpoint 

sweden, norway, ireland, new Zealand everything you do and all your prop-pects, you use socialism regarding 
caitlyn Jordan austin Taliaferro 
and belgium. she said these countries erty, it’s saying, ‘we need a little more other aspects.” demonstrate the different ways social-money so we can distribute that money matthews said she believes capital­ism can be implemented, as well as the so your children can go to school with-ism can empower a country, but it can 
Corrections 

benefits that can come from socialist out extreme amounts of debt or you can also be problematic. 
The observer regards itself as governments. break your leg and go to the hospital “at this point, capitalism has become a professional publication and 
matthews said there is a distinction and not have to worry about the [cost]’.” too big, too strong,” she said. “it’s start-strives for the highest standards 
between socialism and communism, according to matthews, the united ing to collapse on itself and cause prob-
of journalism at all times. we do, 
though these two often are confused or states is afraid of socialism because of lems for itself. if we try to rein it in a little 
however, recognize that we will make 
used interchangeably. she defined com-its ties with communism and the soviet more, maybe that would help.” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
munism as “a totalitarian system of gov-union, but she believes the capitalist 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so ernment in which a single authoritarian mentality overlooks the truths behind Contact Nicole Caratas at  
we can correct our error. party controls means of production.” socialism. ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


STUDENT SENATE 

Group calls for removal of Cosby’s degree 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer
     Editor’s note: A version of this story appeared online March 26. 
The student senate passed a resolution march 23 recom­mending that the university revoke bill cosby’s honorary 

degree. eight amendments to their resolution to recommend university’s stance, as stated 
the student union constitu-that bill cosby’s honorary de-in du lac, that ‘sexual as­
tion regarding elections were gree be revoked, citing in the sault is inconsistent with 
also passed at  last week’s resolution that he “admitted the university’s values and 
meeting. under oath to using illegal incompatible with the safe, a committee consisting sedatives to coerce women healthy environment that the 
of badin hall senator alex into sexual intercourse.” notre dame community ex-
Fincher, ryan hall senator “mr. cosby’s associa-pects,’” the resolution stated. 
isabel Fox and pangborn hall tion with these behaviors is The senate voted to pass 
senator Taylor still presented in direct conflict with the the resolution, student body parliamentarian sara dugan 
paid adverTisemenT 
said. 
The constitutional amend­ments covered many areas of student body elections, in­cluding the campaign process, election dates and finance for elections. 
all physical campaigning materials must now be no larger than 11 by 17 inches — clarifications for where mate­rials can be placed were also addressed. 
previously, classrooms could not be used at any time for campaigning, but a new amendment states that class­rooms cannot be used for campaigning during a class period or during an exam. 
elections for student body president and vice president will now be on the fourth wednesday of the second se­mester. if necessary, the run­off election will still be held on the following monday. 
a new subsection regarding 
student body election finance 
was also added: 
“The Judicial council shall make available funds to re­imburse the candidates for student body president and vice president of expenses incurred for the purpose of campaigning. These expens­es must have been presented to the election committee. reimbursements shall not ex­ceed the campaign spending limit [$200], and the Judicial council president shall ap­prove these reimbursements.” 


sophomores daniel cohen and alexandra henderson were approved as the student union Treasurers after being nominated by current student union Treasurer mason shinn. 
student union board (sub) director of operations rebekah rumschlag, on be­half of the selection commit­tee, said the committee chose junior louis bertolotti to serve a second term as the executive director of sub. 
“i am fully confident that louis has the skills, exper­tise and attitude necessary to choose and work with the rest of the members of sub to maintain sub’s standard of excellence in the upcoming year,” rumschlag read from her letter. 
michael meyer, an associate professional specialist in the mendoza college of business, was awarded the Frank o’malley undergraduate Teaching award after being nominated by two students, student body secretary mae raab said in an email. 
The irish clover award is given to two individuals 
— students, faculty, staff or administrators — who have demonstrated exemplary ser­vice to the student union. This year’s award was given to bryan ricketts, student body president, and John ritschard, a worker in south dining hall, raab said. 
ricketts was nominated by senior Zach waterson, the outgoing judicial council president. 
“he has dedicated an in­credible amount of time to the notre dame student union, serving as a role model for younger student leaders and as a resource to his peers,” waterson said in his nomina­tion letter. 
another committee in­cluding dillon hall senator michael Finan, cavanaugh hall senator Kathleen rocks and st. edward’s hall sena­tor John Kill presented two resolutions regarding notre dame’s partnership with Zhejiang university, raab said. 
The first resolution request­ed transparency regarding the partnership and the second proposed the creation of a standing committee “to repre­sent the notre dame commu­nity, which shall be comprised of faculty, staff and students with the express purpose of discussing, assessing and making recommendations regarding the university’s partnership with Zhejiang university.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

College creates Class Council 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
members of the first class council at saint mary’s will be announced this week. The class council will take the place of class boards, brittany house, director of student involvement, said in an email. 
The class council will hold the same responsibility of build­ing class community through organizing events, programs and parent weekends, similar to the current duties of the class boards, house said. The deci­sion to restructure class boards into class councils was made in collaboration with current class board presidents and vice presidents. 
“The current class board presidents and vice presidents saw a need for change, and i worked very closely with them, as their adviser, to develop the new structure and utilized their feedback, in addition to bench­marking, to determine the new structure,” she said. 
The four class boards each had different numbers and arrange­ments of members, she said. The new class council will consist of nine members, including two representatives from each class, and an additional representative from the senior class who will be the president of the overall coun­cil, house said. 
in order to avoid confusion with the previously existing structure, benchmarking was conducted to determine a new name for the restructured class board, house said. The process determined that many schools with a similar group use the name ‘council,’ and the name was applied to the group at saint mary’s. 
“The hope is the new struc­ture will provide more cohesion among the council, a higher level of accountability for all council representatives and a smoother transition for the first-year class representatives,” she said. “The new class council selection process follows the same guide­lines as the other ‘big boards’ of student activities board, student diversity board and residence hall association.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

Policy 
conTinued From page 1 
“immigration law is not some­thing that is sort of part and parcel of our history from its inception,” Jones said. “we have changed the way that we thought about immi­gration, the way that we thought about newcomers and the way that we thought about people who are in and who we want out.” 
while policies have changed, Jones said, the spotlight on the latino population during discus­sions about immigration has re­mained consistent. 
“when we’re talking about [im­migration] in terms of politics we are almost always thinking about latinos, and now increasingly, muslims,” she said. “as soon as we had this idea about whom we wanted out, mexicans sort of stood in for them. … This isn’t a permanent situation, but it is cer­tainly something we have done before.” 
Fraga said because of this stereotype immigration serves as part of the conversation sur­rounding racial discrimination in the united states. 
“The politics of u.s. immigra­tion policy have always been tied to visions of national identity, and i think we see that today,” he said. “The controversy over that vision of national identity related to immigration is tied to the role of marginalized, espe­cially racial ethnic groups in the united states. it’s never just about immigration.” 
Jones said although immigra­tion has taken center stage in several presidential primary de­bates during this election season, immigration policy is more com­monly affected at the state level. 
“in terms of the level to which immigration is important to you in choosing a presidential candi­date, your choices are actually rel­atively clear,” she said. “however, the way that i see it is that’s not where the action is. what’s more important to me is you paying at­tention to what’s happening at the state level. at this point, the way that we deal with immigration law and policy has much more to do with what is happening within the context of states than what’s happening at the federal level.” 
states’ focus on immigration began as a way to promote action by the federal government, Fraga said. 
“states began to take immigra­tion into their hands out of a per­ception that the inefficiencies of federal government were causing them to incur more costs and its citizens to pay for costs that the inefficiencies of federal enforce­ment policy was requiring,” he said. 
Jones said a president’s execu­tive power is limited in terms of altering or creating immigration policy. 
“we’re in a very different posi­tion because, in the real world, comprehensive immigration reform can’t be passed without senators and legislators, and you can’t actually deport 40 million people without massive local-lev­el support,” Jones said. “so what­ever the presidential candidates are saying and what they plan to do is not inconsequential, but it doesn’t measure up to the kind of things that you see at the state level.” 
Fraga said the focus on immi­gration during the presidential election provides voters with an opportunity to shape the coun­try’s future. 
“The placement of immigra­tion front and center in the presi­dential campaign by donald Trump … makes our choice as to who we’re going to support an opportunity to determine what vision for the country we have,” he said. 
Fraga said he advises caution in deciding where the country’s future should go because this choice will have long-term effects. 
“The choices that you’re mak­ing today, given the choices among the candidates, will have direct implications for what your country is going to be like for a long period of time,” he said. 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Veto 
conTinued From page 1 
bill, said transparency was not the bill’s primary pur­pose. if passed, the bill would have required private university police depart­ments to align their training programs with those of pub­lic agencies, he said. 
“my number one goal was protecting students from crime,” he said. 
Throughout the bill’s legis­lative process, a high-profile lawsuit over access to notre dame’s private police re­cords has been unfolding. espn sued the university in January 2015 after notre dame security police (ndsp) refused to release incident reports related to student-athletes on two separate occasions. 
The indiana court of appeals ruled in favor of espn on march 15, finding ndsp to be a public agency subject to public record laws and reversing the decision of the trial court. The case was remanded to the trial court to determine what types of re­cords ndsp will be required to produce under indiana’s access to public records act (apra). 
“while house enrolled act 1022 provides for limited disclosure of records from private university police de­partments, it would limit the application of the access to public records act following the court of appeals decision and result in less disclosure, therefore i have decided to veto the bill,” pence said in the statement. “hoosiers may be assured that my adminis­tration will always be vigi­lant to preserve government accountability and the pub­lic’s right to know.” 
when dealing with college police departments, bauer said he thinks transparency is necessary at times — — the Family educational namely, when handling rights and privacy act of crimes. 1974 (Ferpa) and the clery 

“you have to say what the act — when redefining state balance of rights is. and privacy laws. the balance of rights comes “you’re balancing federal out in favor of the priva-law with state law, and you’re cy of students,” he said. protecting private rights and 
“While House Enrolled Act 1022 provides for limited disclosure of records from private university police departments, it would limit the application of the Access to Public Records Act following the Court of Appeals decision and result in less disclosure, therefore I have decided to veto the bill.” 
Mike Pence 
Governor of Indiana 
“Transparency of a crime is the private privileges that where i draw the line. if you the students have by law,” he have a fight in your house, said. “ … That dorm is your that’s private. if it’s an as-home. That is not public — sault fight, that’s a crime.” that’s private.” 
bauer said he had to con-bauer said he did not write sider federal privacy laws the bill in response to the notre dame-espn lawsuit; instead, he said he saw a need for the bill after watch­ing “The hunting ground,” a 2015 documentary profil­ing sexual assault cases on college campuses, including notre dame. 

“i think something’s got to be done in protecting students, and i think the movie proved it,” he said. “i think it’s great that ev­erybody cares. This could have all gone away and not happened.” 
bauer, a notre dame grad­uate, said the independent colleges of indiana (ici) asked to help work on the bill. bauer serves on the board of the ici, but said his position does not create a bias because he would not benefit personally from the bill in any way. 
notre dame supported the ici’s efforts to increase transparency in private uni­versity police departments, paul browne, vice president for public affairs and com­munications, said in an email. 
“with the veto, the situ­ation reverts to where no reporting whatsoever is re­quired,” browne said. “ici showed the way forward, but regrettably it was rejected.” 
The general assembly might have the chance to override the veto if the bill is handed down in the next ses­sion, which begins in January 2017, bauer said. however, the pending results of the espn lawsuit will affect the bill’s future impact. 
bauer said he doubts the court’s ruling in the espn lawsuit will completely re­solve the debate over public records, further legal or leg­islative action may have to be taken. 
“overriding a veto is a difficult option,” he said. “sometimes, though, if you’re going to make a change in a law that’s not controversial, it’s not making much of a change.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

dispelling the toxicity 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 

The university’s decision earlier this month to award the laetare medal to vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner at the 2016 commencement ceremony has ignited an array of debate and controversy across campus. The observer has reported in de­tail on the different reactions resulting from the decision and has been the primary platform for students to criticize its implications, which started just days after the announcement when a student petition and accompanying letter denounced the university’s commitment to awarding biden the medal given his history of supporting the legality of abortion and same-sex marriage in his political career. 
a separate letter to the editor followed, which asked dissenters of the university’s decision to not lose sight of the importance of all facets of catholic social Teaching when judging the worthiness of this year’s honorees. specifically, the authors emphasized boehner’s views on immigration and environmental issues, which have contradicted pretty plainly the principles of various elements of catholic social Teaching. 
assuredly, much of what can be said about these contentious decisions has already been spoken, but what cannot be forgotten about in this holistic dis­cussion is the simple, yet important fact that there is nothing near a perfect intersection between the catholic church and politics in the united states, which should be the case in a country that was founded heavily on an ethos of religious freedom. in fact, statistics from the most recent presidential election show that no party came close to having a notable majority of the support of catholic voters and that should be the expectation for the upcom­ing election this november. 
essentially, the university could have chosen any politician from each of biden and boehner’s respective parties and comparable protest would have resulted. Therefore, a reasonable argument could be made that politicians should be avoided altogether in the selection of its recipients; in re­cent history, that has largely been the case — new york senator dan moynihan was the last practicing politician to receive the honor in 1992. 
certainly, university president Fr. John Jenkins knew when the choice was made to honor biden and boehner that a significant share of demurral would follow even though the university’s explana­tion clearly dictated that it did not wish to endorse policy positions of either politician with its deci­sions. ultimately, he and the university decided that the benefits of attempting to dispel the toxicity of contemporary politics outweighed the inevitable disapproval and criticism that ensued and will continue to effervesce from now until graduation. 
given the catholic lens that is the basis for the entirety of the criteria for judging laetare honor­ees, objections can undeniably be made against both of this year’s recipients. however, when criticizing, dissenters should realize that there is no genuine catholic political party in the united states and thus try to avoid forms of debating that are a microcosm of the “toxic political environ­ment” that the university was trying to nullify when making these decisions in the first place. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Battling the post-Easter blahs 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
our christian joie de vivre revolves around ris­ing above the power of death. surely if anyone yearns to personally be lifted from a seemingly inner bottomless sorrow to boundless joy, the easter season should be that catalyst to shepherd along such solace. yet the ravage of witnessing firsthand a family member’s long-term cancer struggle oftentimes irreparably scars one’s soul. For many who presently languish through the gnawing grief that lingers after a loved one’s pass­ing — particularly several branches of my family tree this year — easter week conveyed a mere con­trived comfort. 
Just as each of us portrays our own unique per­sonality, all of us grieve in an inimitable manner. my sister still mourns the husband she lost last october just as intensely as my cousins suffer to­day through their third week following their fam­ily matriarch’s departure. another relative, who lost her fiancé to cancer two years ago, suffered anew a shocking heartbreak on good Friday when her 12-year-old sheltie’s heart gave out without the slightest inkling of illness. her home became quiet and lonely on the doorstep of what would ordinarily be an enthusiastic holiday weekend. 
each of our “Family Trinity” endured a year of frantically praying for healing grace. To a person, they each abandoned a routine life to loyally serve while observing the gradual decay of a compan­ion’s body. For each, their spiritual paths toward understanding a guilt-free purpose in life may have intersected this easter season, but by all ac­counts none has mastered how to merge the sor­row of the crucifixion with the joy of resurrection. 
it is not difficult to harken to a joyous easter when our families were whole. however, the heal­ing path that melds intense sorrow with profound joy is not solely gained by memorializing our fond times together — so frequently characterized as celebrating another’s life. certainly, we yearn to continue our long-held rituals, once shared with our loved ones, in hopes of conjuring back a glim­mer within the darkened corners of our beings. This year we may laugh and recall the time a baby splashed a bowl of egg coloring dye on everyone, but the slightest stark present-day anomaly drags us from that bygone comfortable moment. none our dearly departed who just a year ago sat with us to color eggs but passed prior to the paris terror attack could recognize the desolate significance of a red, white and blue eiffel Tower egg. 
what gospel passage should we rely upon to seek our way through such sorrows? my initial reaction is to ignore scripture but escape through my reminiscence of our family vacations in italy when we visited the so-called “bone church,” our lady of the conception of the capuchins or the tomb of saint ignatius loyola at chiesa del gesu. how ghastly it seemed for me to not feel the slightest grief while gazing at someone’s re­mains — a person others loved just as dearly, if not more during centuries ago, as my family loved our recently departed. it was a macabre setting where human bones were affixed to the ceiling to form images of roses. how strange to stare at the marble cherubs adorning the background walls that abut the tomb or at more cheery cherubs on the iron gate that guards the crypt. is this the mix of feelings we should balance when our loved ones pass on? 
our human frailty limits our easy pathway for­ward if we only carry the memories of our depart­ed within our personal sorrows. Forging through sorrow like Jesus passed through death clears the trail to joy and a new life. matthew 6:33 sums up that general catchall advice, “but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well.” 
while it may appear effortless to proclaim the way forward from atop a pulpit, our modern worldliness most often barricades our labors. Those lofty pronouncements require us to relin­quish selfish pursuits to achieve a higher spiri­tuality. For many who are skeptical about life in general, asking us to fully embrace that counsel is almost an impossible road to trek. 
Throughout the years, i developed my per­sonal two-pronged coping mechanism to survive my family sorrows. The first pillar is my faith in another life to come where i will be reunited with my departed loved ones — not necessarily as the catholic heaven and hell alternative, or a buddhist transmigration, but with some new en­lightenment on another level where we all repeat­edly traverse. secondly, i drift into a numb and mesmerized trance-like state of mind where i can absorb my shocked sensibilities and attempt to burn away its sting. 
usually i further select a song our family re­quests at a funeral mass, “shepherd me oh lord,” and repetitively hum it in my mind as it carries my thoughts to a calming place. This past weekend, i achieved inner peace by selecting an uplifting and traditional easter mass recessional hymn.  it is the perfectly inspiring song to hum, “Jesus christ is risen today, alleluia.” 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. Contact him on Twitter at @GaryJCaruso or via email at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Truth, charity and the Laetare Medal 
John VanBerkum 
guest columnist 

let me begin with a quote from michael sean winters, a reporter for the national catholic reporter and a supporter of university president Fr. John Jenkins’ decision to honor vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner with the laetare medal: “This year’s laetare award sends the unmistakable signal that the time for build­ing walls, either those erected by the united states conference of catholic bishops or those promised by mr. Trump, has ended and the time for building bridges has begun.” 
This seems to be a common refrain after pope Francis’ exchange with donald Trump a few weeks ago. but, what is actually involved in building bridges, and why might some efforts be considered building walls? 
Turning to pope emeritus benedict Xvi in “caritas in veritate” is enlightening: “a christianity of charity without truth would be more or less interchangeable with a pool of good sentiments, helpful for social co­hesion, but of little relevance. in other words, there would no longer be any real place for god in the world. without truth, charity is confined to a narrow field devoid of relations. it is excluded from the plans and processes of promoting human development of uni­versal range.” 
bridges are built by charity in truth, that is, charity anchored in or indivisible from truth, because char­ity in truth promotes human development and fosters real human relations. how? Truth satisfies and fills that emptiness within us that often drives our search­ing, and charity is the bond of relationship by which we encounter such truth. 
walls are built by charity without truth: treating someone as the sum of their emotions (and therefore working to satisfy those alone) rather than as a hu­man longing for something much deeper: the truth of existence and life itself. charity severed from truth does not promote the development of a community of people yearning for authentic happiness. 
when we honor someone for civility in politics while at the same time failing to point out where he has sep­arated himself from the truths of his faith while acting in the political sphere, we are actually building walls. such a recognition tells the catholic faithful that the radical witness of the catholic faith — in which char­ity and truth are inseparable — has no place in poli­tics. Truth, it seems, should be covered up or set aside for personal life. 
we should look, however, at the nature of the laetare medal itself. “magna est veritas et prevalebit” is the inscription on the medal, translated, “Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail.” 
we should go right to the source to discover the ulti­mate meaning of such words. 
“i am the way, and the truth, and the life,” Jesus said. 
and another passage from scripture: “if you contin­ue in my word, you are truly my disciples; and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free.” 
Truth — Jesus — sets us free. bridges, not walls, set us free. Jesus is indeed mighty and has prevailed against all evil. 
how then are the lives of biden and boehner wit­nesses to truth, to Jesus, in the realm in which they work — politics? how do they live up to the radical witness of god on a cross or the martyrs burned alive for their faith? 
we do not talk like this today, and this probably causes many of us to cringe. by radical, however, i do not mean crazy and irrational. i mean Jesus: a healer of the sick, outspoken against hypocrisy and a com­plete gift to others. we are not called to be nice (Jesus was not always nice). we are called to be charitable (offering ourselves in relationship) and to speak the truth (to be in truth), which can sometimes seem harsh to hardened hearts. 
by honoring civility over the truth, is granting this medal to biden and boehner perpetuating the indif­ference to truth, the moral relativism, that is so preva­lent in our culture? 
both are catholic, yet biden supports the funding of contraception and embryonic stem cell research, and boehner stalls immigration reform. 
giving this award to biden and boehner is a direct contradiction of the very nature of the medal itself. rather than encouraging political dialogue, it instead builds walls. it encourages everyone, and politicians in particular, to disregard truth. 
biden and boehner are prominent politicians, maybe as prominent as one can be: The perfect stage, one would think, to voice their knowledge of the truth learned from the mother they purport to accept as catholics — holy mother church. 
where is the radical catholic witness of charity in truth today? are we mired in indifference to truth? This university should be the hands and voice of char­ity in truth for the whole nation. we should not be afraid to proclaim the truth that we know in the public square. 
There is still hope though. be radical, Fr. Jenkins: rescind the award. 
John VanBerkum is a senior in O’Neill Hall. He can be reached at jvanberk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
candidates disagree about income inequality 
Abby Ferguson and Kylie Ruscheinski 
bridging the gap 

over the past few weeks, bridgend has had a run­ning column about income inequality. as we move into the final stages of the primaries, it is the perfect time to see just how realistic the candidates’ views on income inequality — and how to fix it — are. 
while the republican party’s front-running candi­dates do not necessarily address income inequality directly as a major issue, they have been vocal about the need for tax plan reform. These candidates’ main issue lies in the current tax rates based on income. 
donald Trump pushes for tax reform that will “make america great again.” his focus is on provid­ing relief for the middle class by creating job growth and bringing jobs back that have been moved over­seas. Trump believes that his simplified tax plan will not only expand the economy, but that it will not add at all to the current country’s debt and deficit. The concern is that Trump’s simple tax plan might just be too simple. by decreasing the tax brackets to four instead of seven, and by capping the tax of the nation’s highest earners at 25 percent, Trump does not account for the inevitable losses in revenue for the country. his current stance is that ending all “loopholes” within the country’s tax plan is enough to make up for the unavoidable losses, but fails to provide any evidence to back this belief up. 
Ted cruz has taken a different route than Trump, with his platform pushing for “The simple Flat Tax plan.” under the flat tax, the existing seven different rates of individual income tax will all become the same rate of 10 percent for personal income. cruz plans on continuing the child Tax credit, charitable giving deduction and home mortgage interest de­duction. cruz also plans on initial income exemp­tions for low- and middle-income taxpayers. The concern with this plan is similar to that of Trump’s, in that it seems too simple. by universalizing the tax rate, numerous families will receive enormous tax breaks. while this is theoretically good, cruz has yet to specify how his plans will address revenue losses. 
both plans represented by the republican front-runners fail to truly address the problem of income inequality, and actually both pose the possibility of increasing the already large gap. by taxing the wealthy at lesser rates or by just universalizing the rate, inequality is not being adequately addressed. 
The democratic candidates, on the other hand, are putting much more emphasis on the ideas of in­come inequality, but plan on using other methods to solve the issue. hillary clinton and bernie sanders’ focuses lie more heavily on social issues, though both mention tax reforms as subsets of some of their plans. 
hillary clinton aims to better the economy by fo­cusing on three main categories of change: “strong growth,” “fair growth” and “long-term growth.” These include ideas to raise the minimum wage (to $12 federally, and possibly higher at state digres­sion), close corporate tax loopholes and create jobs by investing in clean energy, scientific and medi­cal research and infrastructure. The most common argument against her plans are against the raise in minimum wage, which many say will cause cuts to jobs. 
bernie sanders addresses income inequality more than any other candidate. it could be argued that it is his main talking point, followed closely by “get­ting big money out of politics,” reforming wall street and combating climate change. a self-proclaimed democratic socialist, sanders is a big supporter of the $15 federal minimum wage, ensuring that cor­porations do not escape income tax, investing $1 trillion in infrastructure over the next five years, making tuition free at public universities and more; there are 13 specific plans total, all listed on his campaign page. while most of these plans sound positive, many worry that his plans are too radical and not practical, leaving people concerned that he will not be able to deliver on these lofty promises — particularly if congress continues to be republican-dominated — therefore leaving him unable to address income inequality. another big worry is that his plans call for a large amount of government spending, something many people aren’t eager to increase as our national debt continues to rise. 
while the democratic candidates more openly discuss income inequality and acknowledge it as a problem, even aiming to reform similar areas (mini­mum wage, college, infrastructure) in order to fight it, there are large differences in the specifics of their plans. 
This overview was able to give a general idea of each candidate’s stance, but by no means encom­passed the whole of their ideas or plans with regards to income inequality. 
stay informed and happy voting! 
Abby Ferguson is a freshman in Cavanaugh Hall majoring in psychology (and probably gender studies). She can be reached at afergus1@nd.edu. Kylie Ruscheinski is a freshman in Cavanaugh Hall majoring in political science. She can be reached at kruschei@nd.edu. 
BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum  together in discussions concerning public policy issues. The viewpoints expressed in this article do not  necessarily reflect the opinion of BridgeND but are the individual opinions of the author. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter at  @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KEELY BERGIN 
scene writer 

if you opened aziz ansari’s “modern romance” looking for a book purely com­posed of dating advice with a punch line, you would be sorely disappointed. The book is really the findings of a study on how the ways people date have changed, particularly in relation to the difficulties of textual communication and technol­ogy like Tinder and okcupid. ansari, along with new york university sociolo­gist erik Klinenburg and a host of other research professionals, studied different aspects of dating, from “the initial ask” to “settling down.” in between, ansari provides candid commentary on the risks and rewards of increased choice in the dating world, the role of online dat­ing and the issue of cheating in its vari­ous forms. admittedly, the book lacks a fruitful discussion of these issues within an lgbT context. 
The basis of ansari’s book is that peo­ple today are seeking a different kind of marriage than people sought at least until the 1960s. according to ansari, 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

The theme of rebirth is as central to pop music as breakups, rebellion and desire. recreating one’s identity is pivot­al in an industry so fluid and fast-paced, and to pull it off successfully is another feat entirely. bowie, the embodiment of this flexibility, did it a couple dozen times as he shifted from goblin King to Ziggy stardust to everything in be­tween and ultimately leaving us this year as lazarus. Justin bieber trans­formed himself to great effect last year with “purpose” under the umbrella of redemption. now Zayn malik of one direction fame is doing the same, at­tempting to reestablish himself as the darker, more mature sex symbol “Zayn” with his first solo album “mind of mine.” 
here, Zayn has stripped himself of the tween-friendly charm that sent one direction to the top of the charts around the globe, instead opting for a more mys­terious r&b-influenced sound. To say the least, walking away from the most popular boy band in the world is a bold move, and it’s one that could ultimately companionate marriage was common, but now people ask for more: we want soul mates. with accounts by people from a a range of ages, including an­ecdotes from residents of retirement communities, ansari more or less sub­stantiates the claim. however, ansari isn’t trying to say that your grandparents don’t love each other. as ansari puts it, “These marriages may have started with a simmer, but over time they could build to a boil.” The search for one’s soul mate is no easy task. ansari uses funny nar­ratives from his own life as well as from others to highlight how this generation 
— including himself — is accustomed to getting “the best,” whether it’s the place you’re going for brunch or the person you’re looking to marry. 
one of the most interesting parts of the book is how the study examines on-line dating. The study found that dat­ing apps or websites become frustrating when “people spend way too much time doing the online part; not the dating part.” instead they should be used as “introducing services.” That perspective of online dating puts a whole new spin 
end in disaster for the 23-year-old. 
so far it seems to be paying off. The four remaining members of one direction pumped out one final album, “made in the a.m.,” near the end of last year before going on a hiatus in January that many believe to be permanent. harry styles has been cast in the next christopher nolan film “dunkirk” while the rest of the band has no official plans as of yet, giving Zayn a strong head start on taking control of the legions of one direction fans for himself. 
with “mind of mine,” Zayn isn’t just going for the one direction fans. he’s trying to tap into an older audience, one that jams to bieber, The weeknd and drake at the club on saturday night. diving fully into the moodier, r&b­based space those artists occupy cer­tainly seems ambitious on the surface, but the lack of a cohesive, thoughtful narrative makes it seem like Zayn is playing it safe, which ultimately detracts from the hot, new “bad boy” look he’s mustered up. 
Take, for instance, his first single “pillowTalK.” This was the moment where Zayn was supposed to totally on chat-based apps, like Tinder. ansari’s commentary on apps like Tinder is play­ful, but he is careful not to discount the real fears that people have about meet­ing online matches in real life. he dis­cusses the problems with online dating including but not limited to the “stud mentality,” in which the swiper overes­timates their own attractiveness, and the multitude of potential dates as a problem rather than a host of good op­portunities. ansari sees online dating as the dating of the future, despite the various pitfalls that come along with swipe-based apps. if you are looking for picture tips to get more matches, he pro­vides those too. on the whole, the book leaves it to the reader to decide whether this move from meeting people locally through friends or civic engagement to online is good or bad. 
The book also looks at the way the internet and technology has changed dating internationally. in places like Qatar and the united arab emirates, the internet provides avenues for romantic freedom that were previously unavail­able. The book highlights the difficulties 
detach himself from the sugary pop of one direction and seize the throne of male pop-stardom. production wise, it’s textbook, ’80s throwback synth pop. it’s well done, but it’s not really taking mu­sic in a new direction forward nor a step back. and then there’s the lyrics. what Zayn, like many other pop stars before him, has failed to realize is that explic­itly talking about sex doesn’t make you an adult, it just makes you a douche. with that out of the way, the lyrics are filled with vague platitudes about how awesome sex with gigi hadid is and the occasional, awful bit that love is a war zone. 
This dullness and vagueness per­vades throughout a number of the tracks throughout the album, but that doesn’t necessarily make it a bad album. in fact, there are quite a few moments where Zayn is a bit more experimental. i really loved “liKe i would” because here it sounds like Zayn is genuinely having fun trying to be his own guy and not just sell­ing us the edgy, “i’m cooler than harry styles’ man bun” act. plus, the up-tem­po beats straight bump. Tracks “drunk” and “bordersz” are definitely also worth of dating in Japan, which is due partly to evolving gender roles and increasingly educated women remaining in the work­force, and the perhaps more aggressive dating scene in buenos aires. The cases serve to mirror each other, one where it is difficult to date because a lack of as­sertiveness, and one where rejection is difficult to get across to pursuers and casual sex is more common. Through mirroring such extreme cases, ansari is able to show how being too far on either end of the spectrum is detrimental to productive relationships. 
“modern romance” is an insight­ful, often hilarious study of how dat­ing works today. ansari cleverly weaves jokes between chapters and maintains the necessary lighthearted authority to speak about dating without appear­ing condescending or overly logical. “modern romance” would be an excel­lent read for anyone wondering why people choose to meet through screens today. 
Contact Keely Bergin at                              kbergin1@nd.edu 
a few listens, as they more fully flesh out who Zayn is as a person and artist. 
These moments on “mind of mine” get me excited about what Zayn can do as he grows in this new music space. i’m glad Zayn has chosen these moody r&b vibes, because when he’s comfortable and willing to take a little risk, he really soars. overall, “mind of mine” may not be the bieber-esque recreation that Zayn was going for, but it definitely puts him in a great direction going forward. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                               jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Mind of Mine” 
ZAYN 
Label: RCA Records 
Tracks: “LIKE I WOULD,” “dRuNk,” “BoRdErsz” 
If you like: The Weeknd, Justin Bieber, One Direction 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


By JACK RIEDY 
scene writer 

Two young women sit on a park bench, phones in hand. it’s a familiar scene in any public place. each woman frequent­ly glances at her screen, never making eye contact with the other. They eat large ice cream cones as they talk at each other, never pausing to wipe the white residue from their faces. as their conver­sation escalates, so does the amount of ice cream running off their chins down to their clothes. 
This surreal tableau is the subject of “slurp,” a short film written by and starring catherine cohen and patti harrison. The duo released the film on vimeo in February. since then, it has at­tracted more than seven thousand views and coverage by new york magazine. The observer spoke with the brooklyn­based comedians about the film’s ori­gins and their plans for a follow-up. 
catherine cohen plays Tanya claire, who vents about her mother dating her ex and spending her graduate school fund on jet skis, yet responds to her ac­quaintance’s entire bloodline having cancer with merely a cooed “babe!” as a princeton theater alum, cohen cred­its the comedy community in new york with helping her break away from her musical theater roots. “people are mak­ing their own stuff, and i’m not waiting around for someone to cast me in some play,” she said. as her other videos can attest, she has done improv, sketches and stand-up. cohen also does com­mercial voice-over work by day. 
patti harrison’s character Jamie-lynn Jennifer ignores her friend’s woes to pontificate about her four years in grad school that ended without a diploma when the dean announced at com­mencement that she had never actually been enrolled. her dreams of underwa­ter welding are crushed. discussing her background, harrison jokes that she swore a blood oath to her improv troupe at ohio university. “we were long-form though, so it was worth it,” she said. “i lost a lot of family members because i was prioritizing improv.” since moving to brooklyn, she has instead performed character monologues in variety shows. “slurp” marks her first sketch to be filmed and released. 
The sketch began as a live perfor­mance at the peoples improv Theater, part of a comedy duos show called peas in a pod. despite barely know­ing each other, cohen asked harrison to partner up. They wrote the sketch in just 40 minutes. “i tend to over-plan and ask, ‘what is the intention? what is something possibly negative that some­one can perceive from this?’” harrison said. “everything’s eggshells in 2016. everything i do is calculated.” cohen’s approach was to instead take a simple premise and try a barrage of bizarre jokes, then mold them together. “when i work alone, i’m so precious,” cohen said, “but with someone else, i trust their sensibility, so it’s easy to bounce ideas back and forth.” 
The premise stemmed from seeing someone eating a giant ice cream cone in a public park. “eating while trying to do something else is always funny,” cohen stated before pausing to flip a fried egg. The logic behind the charac­ters’ names was similarly self-evident. cohen had been ruminating on the phrase “Tanya claire: Fashion girl” for a year, while harrison likened three word names to animals given very specific human names, like a fat old labrador named bianca. 
Though the characters are not based directly on any real-life people, harrison was inspired by a college friend. “she was one of the nicest people, moth­erly and pleasant,” harrison said. “she would show people she couldn’t laugh at an offensive or off-color joke, even though she really appreciated it. she would say the bleakest things and not react at the appropriate capacity. Just flippant.” 
Tanya claire and Jamie-lynn Jennifer’s self-centered perspective drives the conversation. “They are ac­knowledging the sound coming out of someone without truly responding. 
They’re instead thinking about what to say next,” harrison said. “i say this as someone who has all the responses for this interview planned, regardless of the questions asked,” she quipped. The result is closer to a series of monologues than it is true dialogue. The emotional distance between the characters is jux­taposed with their physical proximity on a park bench. 
after the sketch’s live debut, director grace naw approached them, eager to film it. naw set up a 4K camera in a park at a wide angle and cut in from there for individual shots. “slurp” was filmed in only one take, and the actors had the luxury of reading their lines from their phones during shooting. “patti arrived an hour and a half late. i was wildly hung-over and really heartbro­ken. i had a meltdown the night before. we both showed up damaged,” cohen deadpanned. 
The actors both praised naw for un­derstanding the tone of the sketch. “when a writer takes something near and dear to their heart to a director, that partnership doesn’t always work,” harrison stated, “grace was on the same wavelength.” The director even chas­tened them for listening to each other too much. 
The film ends by revealing that Tanya claire and Jamie-lynn Jennifer have been licking up acrylic paint. The live incarnation ended differently, with both characters announcing lethal allergy to vanilla ice cream and whipping out epipens. Knowing they needed a conclu­sion and hoping to avoid stabbing each other again, the duo simply thought of what other white substance they could be holding in sugar cones. They credited naw with editing the result in a way that made it feel like a punchline. 
cohen and harrison excitedly an­nounced that they are working on a fol­low-up to “slurp” with naw returning as director. There is currently no title or release date, but the film is being edited. “i know fans are dying to know, ‘what white substance did they slap on this month?’” cohen said. “no spoilers, but there’s a lot of greek yogurt in the mix.” 
“we actually put time and thought into this one,” she continued, “so it’s probably not gonna be as good. we’re both in good moods and feeling okay with ourselves.” 
The duo plans to continue perform­ing together live. on april 8, they will be at over the eight as part of “it’s a guy Thing,” a so-called lecture series where performers satirize traditional mascu­linity. describing past iterations of the monthly show, harrison said, “it’s the dumbest show with the dumbest sets i’ve ever seen, and it’s beautiful.” They are even writing songs for the event. 
harrison and cohen are also plan­ning a June show at a rented church called “hunchback of notre prom,” a prom for hideous people. There will be comedy, music and even a crowning of king and queen. “ugly people should get to feel a good feeling sometimes. not all the time, but sometimes,” harrison said drily. cohen chimed in, “it would be fun to know for one night what it’s like to not be debilitatingly gorgeous.” 
The comedic chemistry between these two is clear, even in conversation. after explaining that they have to work on only one laptop due to a string of computer failures, cohen dipped into a lilting charity commercial tone to pitch a Kickstarter campaign. harrison insist­ed that she needs not just a laptop, but a nice one, like the futuristic displays in “minority report.” 
Their relationship is like the polar op­posite of the distance they portray on-screen. “i love patti,” cohen said. “when i don’t see her for two days, i text her i miss her and she replies, ‘don’t make me say it back,’ because she can’t.” 
“you’ve gotta earn it,” harrison replied. 
with one short film under their belt and much more on the horizon, cohen and harrison are excited to continue creating together. “people have started calling us the slurp girls,” cohen said. “i think we might run with it.” 
Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: what are you waiting for? Take the initiative and be the one to make things happen. your desire to be one step ahead of everyone else should motivate you to reach your mark. do your best to eliminate deadweight and work at identifying what is instrumental in your plans for progress. pick and choose wisely in love and in business. your numbers are 3, 15, 21, 23, 28, 32, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): share what you have to offer and you will find a way to turn an idea into a moneymaking venture. problems with institutions and government agencies will surface if you have neglected to take care of your personal finances. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): be the driving force behind an idea. Take action 
— an opportunity will not last forever. a personal relationship is best handled with care. offer love and affection, but don’t feel the need to overspend to hold someone’s interest. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a constructive approach to getting things done is a better option than getting into an argument with someone. uncertainty will result in a make-or-break standoff that is best dealt with honestly. a subtle change is favored. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take care of your interests and avoid worrying about what everyone else is doing. you can make headway if you stay focused and use your resources to bring about the changes you want to see happen at work or at home. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel, communication and bringing attention to the things you want to see happen will lean in your favor. choose your course of action instead of following someone who makes questionable offers. personal change will be gratifying. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll have lots of options, so wait and see what transpires and choose what works best for you. not everyone will agree with you, but for now it’s best to look out for yourself. be cautious regarding partnerships. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): change will give you a new lease on life. a day trip or reconnecting with old friends will open your eyes to a personal situation you are facing. explore your options and prepare to take a leap of faith. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): believe in your ability to see through what others do and say. your insight will help you make superior choices when it comes to both helping others and reaching your own goals. romance will bring you joy and greater stability. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): home is the best place to be. bring about the changes that will make your life more convenient. Travel is best kept to a minimum for now. avoid daring or risky adventures. protect against insult and injury. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look for opportunities that suit you, and try not to get involved in ventures that deal with people you cannot trust or count on to do their part. someone from your past will tamper with your emotions if you aren’t careful. you can’t buy love. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): an investment or job prospect looks inviting. bring about a change that will free up enough time to get involved in something that entices you. good fortune can be yours if you are willing to put in the time. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): problems will surface with people in authoritative positions or those from a different cultural background. clear up any confusion that arises before things escalate. honesty and a concise explanation along with compassion and understanding will help you maintain your integrity. 


Birthday Baby: you are proud, adventurous and independent. you are daring and willful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT & JeFF KnureK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
worK area 

name 
address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

uconn’s success hurts the game 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
over the weekend, boston globe journalist dan shaughnessy received an assortment of strident criticism for his tweet that suggested connecticut’s women’s basketball team, which has lost one game in the last three seasons and has yet to win by less than double digits this year, is bad for the sport. 
while shaughnessy’s tweet certainly could have used supplementary quali­fication — which anyone familiar with Twitter knows is impossible to adequately accomplish in 140 charac­ters — much of the aggres­sive backlash it received was misguided. 
although unlikely, it would absolutely be of great benefit to women’s college basketball if the huskies were not the team crowned as champion next week at the Final Four in indianapolis, and it would be delusional of any de­fender of the sport to not acknowledge — at least to some degree — the validity of such a statement. 
now, it is truly a shame that huskies head coach geno auriemma, the pre­miere coach in not just women’s college basketball but possibly basketball as a whole, has to consistently face criticism and answer questions about how his team’s success may be detrimental to the sport. however, auriemma’s asser­tion during his press con­ference this past weekend that uconn’s dynasty is no different from Tiger woods’s dominance during his prime years is simply not convinc­ing in the current context of the sport. 
most fans would agree that some form of parity in any sport is desirable to a com­plete lack of it. The problem with women’s college bas­ketball’s relationship with parity isn’t just auriemma and uconn’s recent suc­cess; more significantly, it is the fact that dynasties and domination have been way too common in the history of the sport. 
since the women’s tourna­ment expanded to 64 teams in 1994, three universities have won 17 of the 22 cham­pionships. additionally, there have been three separate three-peats, and the champions have con­sistently won each of their tournament games by av­erage margins of victory that exceeded 20 points per game. 
dynasties cycle through various sports every so of­ten, but no major sport in recent history has seen its champion year-in and year-out dominate like women’s college basketball. yes, the warriors are in the midst of a historic run of domina­tion, but what makes it so enthralling to fans is that it hasn’t happened in 20 years. The blackhawks’ recent suc­cess gives them a legitimate case to be titled a dynasty in the nhl, but it’s the first le­gitimate claim any team has had in the league since the 1980s. it may take my entire lifetime for another player to dominate the pga like Tiger woods did in the late 1990s and early 2000s, if it does in fact ever happen again. 
of course, in no way does this argument suggest that no recognition should be granted to uconn if it, as expected, comes out on top next week, but it certainly would be an opportune time in the scope of the sport for an upset to occur. a Final Four that includes a no. 7 seed, washington, and a no. 4 seed, syracuse, hints there is parity underneath connecticut’s dominance, and some statistics even suggest there is more equal­ity in the recruiting process in women’s college basket­ball than there is in men’s college basketball. 
while men’s college bas­ketball will likely always be more popular than women’s college basketball in re­gards to the allure of march madness and absurdly con­tinue to be the sole benefac­tor of the ncaa’s monetary rewards for postseason suc­cess, it should not be refuted that the ending of uconn’s suffocating supremacy would be beneficial for the sport. 
many of the responders to shaughnessy’s tweet, in­cluding auriemma himself, pointed out that uconn’s success will help the sport by forcing other teams to reach a higher standard of performance to be competi­tive. This is undeniably true. it would simply be better if this standard were reached by competitors sooner rath­er than later. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

FENCING | ncaa championships 
Irish take fifth at NCAA championships 
By BEN PADANILAM 
associate sports editor 
notre dame took fifth place at the ncaa cham­pionships this past week­end, bringing its season to a close. 
The four-day event opened with the women competing over the first two days. The irish stood in second place heading into the men’s half of the team event, trailing leader and eventual nation­al champion columbia by just two points. 
however, the men strug­gled to carry that momen­tum forward, as notre dame dropped three spots over last two days and finished the event with a fifth-place finish in the 25-school field. having came into the event with national champion­
ship aspirations, the  irish  
were  disappointed  with  
their  performance,  head  

coach gia Kvaratskhelia said. 
“obviously we have a very disappointed team right now — that hap­pens any time your goals are set so high and you fall short, and for our ath­letes it’s compounded be­cause they know they have the skill to accomplish it,” Kvaratskhelia said. 
although the level of competition was as strong as expected, Kvaratskhelia said he thought the team’s disappointing finish was largely due to failure to consistently pick up points in key opportunities. 
“The talent level at the ncaa championships is always exceptionally high, but at the same time we have very talented fencers on our roster as well,” he said. “our head-to-head bout performances sup­port this: we split our bouts with first-place columbia and second-place ohio state, and we came out ahead against third-place princeton. so that tells us that they gained separation over us through their per­formances against the rest of the field, and by exten­sion that we weren’t consis­tent enough against those other fencers.” 
while its finish as as team was underwhelming by its own expectations, notre dame saw 10 of its 12 fencers earn all-american honors this weekend. headlining the group were freshmen axel Kiefer and sabrina massialas, who were both named first team all-americans following their third-place finishes in the men’s and women’s foil, respectively. Kvaratskhelia said he was also pleased with seniors catherine lee and nicole mcKee, who earned second and third team all-american hon­ors for their performances in women’s epee and foil, respectively. 
“sabrina and axel were tremendous for us,” Kvaratskhelia said. “it speaks a lot to their men­tal toughness that they led our performances as freshmen, as this is a very grueling competition for first-time fencers. i was also very pleased with our two seniors making their first ncaa appear­ances, catherine lee and niki mcKee, as they both put in a lot of work over their careers to have this opportunity and showed a lot of grit and determina­tion in their performances.” 
with notre dame’s season now finished, Kvaratskhelia said the team is already focusing on how it can improve for next year. Kvaratskhelia recognized the irish are in a good spot going forward as far as tal­ent is concerned, and add­ed they will certainly be in a position to compete for a national championship next season. 
“There are still so many positives going for us mov­ing forward,” Kvaratskhelia said. “nine of our 12 ncaa qualifiers this season [were] freshmen or sophomores, making us by far the young­est full team at ncaas this year. Knowing that we have the talent here, we have the opportunity to learn from this with this group and iron out the inconsisten­cies we saw in some of our results. we have another tremendous freshman class joining us in the fall, and we welcome back great fenc­ers in lee Kiefer, amanda sirico and hazem Khazbak, who all took a year off for the olympic qualification cycle. 
“with all that going for us, this performance’s im­pact on momentum will only be negative if we allow it to be. This is a team full of competitors, and they’re not happy with a finish like this. as a result, i’m antici­pating that they’ll be a high­ly motivated group through offseason and carrying over into next season.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 

Irish freshman foilist Axel Kiefer competes at the ACC championships Feb. 28 at the Castellan Family Fencing Center. Kiefer finished in third place in the men’s foil at the NCAA championships last weekend. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

notre dame is in a ‘golden age’ 

Alex Carson 
assistant managing editor 
philadelphia — what in the world happened to notre dame’s men’s basketball program? 
The formula was pretty sim­ple for the irish: have a good regular season, earn a solid seed, then get to march and forget how to win. 
you could look at 2007 and 2010, where the irish failed to get out of the first round as a no. 6 seed, falling to winthrop and old dominion. 
maybe the 2011 team, which earned a no. 2 seed, was the most painful, when the irish got manhandled by 10th­seeded Florida state in the second round. 
or, my personal favorite, that 2012 first-round loss to no. 10-seeded Xavier. you know, the one where a Jerian grant lane violation cost the irish a late chance to tie, with that no. 15-seeded lehigh team waiting in the wings. 
Time and time again, though, it was the same story: opportunity knocked in march for notre dame, but nobody answered the door. 
but after two successive trips to the elite eight, that’s changed. drastically. 
“[i’m] just really proud of the work we’ve been able to do in the past couple years and kind of set the standard for going forward,” irish ju­nior guard demetrius Jackson said. 
Jackson’s right — this is a new standard for irish basketball. 
assuming he grades out at the nba combine like many expect him to, we’ve likely seen the last of Jackson’s ca­reer in the blue and gold. but alongside senior forward Zach auguste, the mishawaka na­tive has dramatically altered the course of the program he somewhat timidly entered two and a half years ago as a freshman. 
if it was his last perfor­mance for the irish, it was one hell of a 26-point show. 
“i’m so proud of him,” ju­nior forward v.J. beachem said. “i’ve known him for a long time and i expected nothing less from him, the ef­fort he gives us and the lead­ership he gives us.” 
headlined over the last two seasons by grant, pat connaughton, Jackson and auguste, it’s easy to see why irish head coach mike brey attributed his team’s recent turnaround in march to tal­ent, rather than anything the staff did. 
and to a certain point, he’s right. grant and connaughton are playing in the nba, Jackson may well be a lottery pick and auguste will have every opportunity to play his trade professionally 
— brey said auguste is “going to make a lot of money play­ing this game.” 
but to simply dismiss it as “talent” and noth­ing else would be a little disingenuous. 
while big things were ex­pected of Jackson when he walked on campus, they weren’t always there with auguste. The marlborough, massachusetts, native played just over 10 minutes per game his freshman year and steadi­ly improved through each of his four years. when asked what auguste meant to this team, beachem had a simple response: “everything.” 
“he embodies it in every way a young man should grow, on and off the court,” beachem said. “he’s been great for us all four years and i’ve known him for so long, just to see this growth in him has just been great.” 
if i ask my dad about notre dame hoops, he’ll talk en­ergetically about adrian dantley, Kelly Tripucka and, of course as a cavaliers fan too, austin carr. Those 1970s teams coached by digger phelps represented a golden era of irish basketball, capped by a Final Four trip in 1978 and an elite eight one in 1979. 
with the irish returning no fewer than six of their eight tournament rotation play­ers — sophomore guard matt Farrell called the future “very bright” — a simple thought dawned on me: 
george Keogan led notre dame through a golden age in the 1920s and 1930s, and phelps had his in the 1970s. 
and now, we’re in notre dame’s third golden age. The “mike brey era,” if you will. 
in a few decades, i’ll be telling my kids stories about grant’s shot from the sham­rock, connaughton’s block against butler, auguste’s dunks with authority and, of course, Jackson’s heroic final 20 seconds Friday night against wisconsin. 
with two elite eights in two years, notre dame men’s bas­ketball is back on the map. 
and i’ve got a feeling digger won’t be able to tease brey about that Final Four appear­ance for much longer. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Irish overwhelmed by Tar Heels’ late-game push 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
philadelphia — notre dame tried everything. 
it tried man, zone and a press. it tried going small and it tried going big. 
but no matter what the irish did down the stretch, they just couldn’t stop north carolina. 
when notre dame pulled ahead, 52-51, after a 12-0 run with 13 minutes to play, it had the Tar heels on the ropes. 
but north carolina proved exactly why it earned a no. 1 seed a couple weeks ago. 
“i give north carolina credit, we made a heck of a run to take the lead in the second half and they answered with a big-time punch,” irish head coach mike brey said. “They’re just playing really well right now.” 
senior guard marcus paige started it off with a jumper before sophomore guard Joel berry ii hit one of his own on the following possession. 
The next time down, it was two paige free throws, then a junior forward isaiah hicks tip-in, a sophomore forward Theo pinson layup and a hicks dunk. 
The Tar heels had six pos­sessions, scored on all six and took a 63-52, stranglehold of the game. 
notre dame would get buckets the rest of the way, but it was all for naught — because north carolina wasn’t letting up at the other end. 
The Tar heels scored on their next seven possessions, running that streak to 13 con­secutive trips with two points, before irish sophomore for­ward bonzie colson finally se­cured a defensive rebound. 
with 3:23 to play. 

For nearly 10 minutes of bas­ketball, north carolina wasn’t stopped. 
colson’s rebound was the only defensive one notre dame got in the final 13 minutes. north carolina grabbed eight offensive rebounds in that span. 
“They pounded on us, they got second shots, they made big shots,” brey said. “didn’t they tip one in off the back of their freaking head now that i think of it? when something like that happens, you go, ‘you know, it’s been a good year’.” 
in 19 full trips down the court in the final 13 minutes, the Tar heels scored 37 points. 
That’s ruthless efficien­cy from a championship contender. 
irish junior forward v.J. beachem didn’t hold back in his assessment of the Tar heels. 
“i think they’re the best team in the country,” beachem said. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“They’re playing like the best team in the country right now, so i wouldn’t be surprised if they go and win the national championship.” 
his head coach agreed. 
“my hat’s off to them,” brey said. “They’re really playing well. i think they’re playing the best of anybody left.” 
brey said notre dame’s game plan was to keep it tight head­ing into the final few minutes of the game to put the Tar heels in situations they hadn’t been in during the tournament. 
but that never got a chance to happen. 
“i love where we were, we substituted and went big and took the lead,” brey said. “we just couldn’t get a stop. i think the biggest thing was we couldn’t secure a defensive re­bound, they got so many sec­ond shots, which is what they do well. we get a few of those and maybe we get to game situations.” 
north carolina played the fi­nal 13 minutes about as well as it could have hoped to. 
“you just gotta tip our hats to ‘em, they just played a great overall game in every way — offense, defense, glass, every­where,” beachem said. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 




M Bball 
a great job of controlling pace, getting their bigs out on ball 
conTinued From page 16 
screens, making them switch,” 

sophomore guard matt Farrell who finished the opening said. “we did a good job con-frame with 11 points on 4-of-5 trolling the first half.” shooting, including a massive north carolina took a 43-38 dunk with seven minutes to lead into halftime, however, play in the half. Junior guard thanks to a 16-for-24 shooting demetrius Jackson joined performance which included beachem in double-figures the Tar heels going 4-of-6 from with a solid first half perfor-beyond the arc. mance of 13 points as the irish The irish got off to sluggish controlled the tempo with head start to the second half, falling coach mike brey’s patented behind 51-40 as north carolina “burn” offense. junior forward Kennedy meeks 
“we knew we were going rattled off eight consecutive to have to put points on the points. board,” junior guard steve but notre dame had a run left vasturia said. “obviously they in it. over the next two and a can really score the ball, so we half minutes, mike brey’s team wanted to come out and attack scored 12 straight points to take and knock down shots. you a 52-51 lead with 13 minutes left saw people hitting big shots to play. Jackson lead the irish all game, demetrius [Jackson], run with five points and an as-v.J.[beachem] and everybody.” sist on a Zach auguste alley oop. 
“i think in the first half we did “[i thought], ‘we’re right back in it’,” junior forward v.J. beachem said. “we expected to be right there, that’s something that we’ve done all year when teams make runs — it seems like they’re gonna get away, we’re able to fight right back but we just weren’t able to finish it this time.” 

beachem finished his night with 18 points and was named to the east region’s all-tourna­ment team along with Jackson, who finished with 26 points and four assists. irish head coach mike brey praised his point guard’s performance af­ter the game. 
“i thought demetrius Jackson was just fabulous and con­trolled the whole game,” brey said. “we quarterbacked the tempo, he quarterbacked our set. he was thoroughly ex­hausted, but we couldn’t afford to take him out of the game. he engineered the whole thing and i’m really thrilled with what he did.” 
“he’s unbelievable. he’s just an unbelievable player,” Farrell said. “i think he was exhausted, but he still just kept doing his thing. it’s hard to guard him in ball screen — trust me, i try to do it every day. … it’s a lot of fun playing with him.” 
despite Jackson’s effort, notre dame looked on help­lessly as north carolina came roaring back with a 12-0 run of its own, capitalized by a thun­dering alley-oop dunk by junior forward isaiah hicks. 
“you gotta give credit to carolina,” brey said of the Tar heels’ run. “we took that one-point lead and they re­ally answered it like men, and we didn’t have much left. They wore us down a little bit with their depth and their front line. and they shot the heck out of the ball. … my hat’s off to them.” 
and north carolina didn’t let up. 
The Tar heels held a 71-61 lead with six minutes remain­ing and closed the door on any hopes of an irish comeback with, maintaining a double-digit lead for the rest of the game. 
offensive rebounds hurt the irish down the home stretch as the Tar heels grabbed four in the last 5:30 of the game with three of them coming from 
sophomore  forward  Justin  
Jackson.  
in addition, the Tar  heels  

continued their dominant shooting performance from the first half to shoot 52 per­cent from the field to close the game. Tar heel senior forward brice Johnson was particularly effective, scoring 25 points on 10-of-15 shooting en route to being named the region’s most outstanding player. 
“i’m sitting there thinking they’ve got to miss one — is brice Johnson, can he just miss one? can he just help us a little bit?,” brey said. “i give them credit, man. and they got every 50/50 ball. and again i think their bodies were fresher because they play some more guys.” 
north carolina closed out the 88-74 victory by making nine consecutive free throws and will head to houston to face fellow acc foe syracuse (23­12, 9-9) in the Final Four next saturday. 
The irish, however, head back to south bend to prepare for next year. and though the team could not pull out yet an­other come-from-behind vic­tory, beachem acknowledged the run this year’s irish squad made. 
“To do the things that we did with the target on our back this year, to get back in the same position where pretty much nobody expected us to be here, it was great,” beachem said. “i love these guys, they’re like the brothers i never had.” 
Notre Dame 61, Wisconsin 56 
when wisconsin junior forward vitto brown made a 3-pointer to give the seventh-seeded badgers (22-13, 12-6 big Ten) a 56-53 lead with 25 sec­onds left in the game, it looked like the irish were all out of magic. 
but just as it did against michigan and stephen F. austin, notre dame refused to be sent back to south bend. 
as soon brown’s shot fell through the hoop, Jackson took command of the game. 
Jackson rushed down the court and finished with a layup to pull notre dame within one, at 56-55, with 19.3 seconds left. 
it seemed like the irish would have to play the foul game and hope wisconsin missed free throws. 
but Jackson had other plans. 
The badgers inbounded the ball to junior forward nigel hayes. hayes pivoted and was stripped by irish sophomore forward bonzie colson. The ball skirted to Jackson who laid it off the glass to give the irish a 57-56 lead with just 14 seconds left. 
“coach did a great job recog­nizing and letting us know that we had a foul to give,” Jackson said of the game’s pivotal se­quence. “so we had a really ag­gressive trap, and then bonzie made a great defensive play, getting his hands on it. it kind of fell into my arms, and i just wanted to put it in and finish it. … i just wanted to be aggressive defensively, just trying to get a steal and win the game, trying to make a game-winning play.” 
badgers junior guard bronson Koenig missed a wild layup on wisconsin’s next possession and beachem came down with the rebound to seal the victory. beachem knocked down his two free throws and on wisconsin’s last-ditch effort, Jackson came up with notre dame’s 10th steal of the night — tied for the second-most ever in an ncaa tournament game. 
after two more Jackson free throws, notre dame made it of­ficial and advanced to the elite eight for the second consecu­tive season. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


Jackson 
conTinued From page 16 
to be a first-round selection in June’s draft, held in brooklyn, new york. The mishawaka na­tive thanked those who helped him during his career at notre dame, especially the whitfield family, his foster family. 
“There have been many peo­ple who’ve helped me along this journey, and i’d like to thank my family, teammates and coaches for shaping me to be the player and man i am today,” Jackson said. “The con­tinuous support of the notre dame family has made these past three years unforgettable. 
“a huge thank you to my foster family — you opened your home to me, gave me the best possible situation to be successful, and allowed me to open up and trust again. words will never be enough to describe how you’ve helped me grow. and to all those who believed in me through the ups and downs, thank you. not only do i have a place to call home with my foster fam­ily, but now another at notre dame.” 
Jackson becomes the first notre dame player to declare early for the draft since Troy murphy did in 2001; murphy was selected 14th by golden state in that year’s draft. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 30, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
finishing with a goal. 
The momentum began to shift toward michigan in the third, however, as its offense began to become more effective in the irish zone. 
michigan sophomore defense-man Zach werenski leveled the score at 2-2 9:52 into the third period after a flurry of michigan pressure, which continued until the end of regulation. however, a combination of blocked shots and petersen saves pushed the game into overtime. 
both teams got their chances in the extra period, as irish soph­omore Jake evans nearly netted a game-winning wrap-around early on. it was motte and the highest-scoring line in college hockey who broke through, how­ever, as the wolverines converted an overtime goal into a victory. 
“credit to them,” irish se­nior forward sam herr said of michigan’s top line, which in­cludes motte, junior center JT compher and freshman left wing Kyler connor. “They’re a phenomenal line. obviously they have been all year, but that was just a team effort shutting them down. we played strong team defense when we were on the ice. everyone was aware. as far as the overtime goal, just one lapse against those guys and you’re go­ing to have to pay for it, and that’s what we did tonight.” 
“i thought for the most part we played well,” senior center and captain steven Fogarty said. “we wanted to get a good start, and i thought we did that. when we were sticking to our game plan is when we had success. There was a few lapses in there, and they capitalized. but overall i’m re­ally proud of the guys and of how they worked all game.” 
“it’s one of those classic match-ups between michigan and notre dame, where we were sup­posed to have the offense and they’re supposed to have the de­fense, and they usually have the goalkeeping,” wolverine head coach red berenson said during his post-game press conference. “defense usually wins, and Jeff’s had the edge in some of those games, and we’ve had the edge in some. but it can go either way. i have a lot of respect for Jeff. i think he’s a great coach, and i’m glad to see they’re coming into the big Ten. but this was a game that michigan got the last shot. it was one of those games.” 
looking ahead, notre dame enters the offseason with one more season in hockey east be­fore joining michigan in the big Ten in 2017. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 

HOCKEY 
Seniors usher in new era 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor 
cincinnaTi — steven Fogarty fought a lump in his throat. sam herr’s eyes were red as he softly answered ques­tions from the media gathered in front of him. 
even irish head coach Jeff Jackson had a waver in his voice when asked about what this se­nior class has meant to him and to the notre dame program. 
The finality of it all had clearly hit the two seniors and their coach, just minutes after michigan ended their careers just shy of the midway point of the first overtime period Friday night. 
“our guys played their hearts out, and i am just extremely proud of them,” Jackson said. “our senior class has probably done a better job in leading than i have ever had, so i am very proud of them.” 
it was a hard way for the end to come, especially after what will go down as one of the best college hockey games of the year between two rivals. 
“i thought for the most part we played well,” Fogarty, who signed an entry level contract with the new york rangers on Tuesday, said following the game. “we wanted to get a good start, and i think we did that. we were sticking to our game plan, which is when we were having success. There were a few lapses there, but we stuck by it. overall, i’m really proud of the guys and how they worked all game.” 
mario lucia joined his class­mate in entering the profes­sional ranks following the loss, inking a deal with the minnesota wild. 
as a class, they were a part of three ncaa tournament ap­pearances in their four years and compiled an 85-58-17 re­cord overall, including a 17­8-3 conference record in a 2012-2013 campaign that was the team’s final season of ccha play and included a ccha tournament title. in their three years in hockey east, the class is a respectable 34-21-9 overall in conference play and never fin­ished below .500 in conference play. 
but for all the success the class has found on the ice, Jackson has said all season that this class has been one of his best in terms of two important quali­ties: leadership and character. 
“it’s really hard,” Jackson said when asked how it was to watch Fogarty and herr walk off the podium in cincinnati. “leadership is a funny thing. i have had great leaders in my time at notre dame and before, but this was different. For the first time, i have had a group of guys that collectively led. They cared about each other. They did a great job this year. you know we’ve got a young group 
— we have two thirds of our ros­ter that is underclassmen.” 
after graduating 11 seniors following the 2013-14 season, Jackson said it was this senior class that weathered the storm of youth in the program and brought the irish back to the ncaa tournament after miss­ing out in 2014-15. 
“They did a tremendous job,” Jackson said. “They got our culture back on track. They are passionate, and they are great kids. 
“i mean character: unbelievable.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Stanford exposes Notre Dame’s defensive flaws 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
leXingTon, Ky. — “offense wasn’t really a problem tonight. it was defense.” 
irish head coach muffet mcgraw summed up the performance of her star sophomore forward brianna Turner on Friday in those two quick sentences, but they also described notre dame’s night as a whole. 
while the irish offense plugged away with its usual efficiency, matching its sea­son averages in points and field goal percentage, the defense sputtered through­out the first quarter and never recovered. 
That lackluster defensive performance, coupled with a lights-out shooting perfor­mance from stanford, put notre dame in a hole from which it could not escape, dooming the squad to its earliest ncaa tourney exit since 2010. 
in the game’s opening 10 minutes, the cardinal took a 28-21 lead, shooting 61 percent from the field. it was notre dame’s biggest first-quarter deficit of the year since the irish lost to connecticut on dec. 5, and it was also the second most points they had surrendered in any quarter all year, be­hind only a 29-point period against depaul. 
“you can’t spot a team with that kind of shooting percentage in the first half and expect to kind of dig your way out of the hole in the second half,” irish junior guard lindsay allen said of her team’s early defensive woes. 
leading the way for stanford, junior forward erica mccall racked up 10 points and three rebounds on 5-for-6 shooting in the first quarter. 
“she was just making all her shots in the first half and she was really great re­bounding,” Turner said of mccall’s performance. “i needed to get closer to her and make sure i had a hand in her face no matter how far out she was.” 

perhaps most importantly, mccall was able to battle down low and avoid the long arms of Turner, who led the acc in blocks this season. while Turner had two blocks in the first quarter, neither of them came against the 6-foot-3 forward, and after­wards she said she began the game without aggressive­ness, which cost her against an opponent mcgraw said was vastly improved from the two squads’ last meeting. 
and on the rare occa­sion when mccall and the cardinal did miss, Turner and the irish failed to col­lect rebounds, allowing stanford to grab four offen­sive boards, as many total rebounds as notre dame had in the entire period. 
but it wasn’t just in the post where notre dame’s defense fell short. stanford shot 3-for-6 from 3-point territory in the first quarter, the start of an epic night for 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
just couldn’t guard them.” 
mccall had 19 of stanford’s opening half points on 9-of­11 shooting, on her way to a career-high 27 for the night. mcgraw said mccall’s ver­satility in scoring made her hard to deal with. 
“we knew that coming in, we saw her on film and she’s definitely improved her face-up game and her release,” mcgraw said. “she could shoot when she was guarded. she wasn’t always wide open. she did a really good job of just mixing up her shots and moving well without the ball.” 
The irish took three min­utes to get out of the gates in the second half and score again, enough time for stanford to open up a 15-point lead, their larg­est of the game. The irish clawed away at the cardinal lead throughout the third quarter, bringing it to within seven after a three-pointer from freshman guard marina mabrey, but stanford kept distance be­tween the teams and ended the quarter leading 67-57. Junior guard lindsay allen said she still felt the game was within reach despite the steep deficit. 
“i don’t think we ever panic in those situations,” allen said. “we figure out a way to dig down deep and get stops and convert on our offense. but you can’t spot a team with that kind the cardinal, who finished the game at 11-for-20 beyond the arc. 
The irish perimeter de­fense was not helped by the absence of allen, who picked up two fouls in the first quarter and headed to the bench, and senior guard hannah huffman, a defen­sive specialist who was on the floor for fewer than two minutes early on. 
still, even had they had been playing, mcgraw said, sometimes stanford’s shots were simply too good to be stopped. 
“i think every team has a game like this where every­thing’s just going your way and shots are falling and you’re getting a big lead,” mcgraw said. “so it’s kind of contagious.” 
and the irish were never able to prevent the opportu­nities for those shots. notre dame entered the matchup forcing 17.38 turnovers per game, or 4.35 per quarter. The team coaxed just one from stanford in the first 
of shooting percentage in the first half and expect to kind of dig your way out of the hole in the second half. it was tougher because they still shot really well in the second half. 
“i think it was just us kind of figuring out a way to dig deep and they couldn’t do that. and they shot timely 3s in the fourth quarter that were just hard to overcome.” 
in the fourth quarter, the irish fought back several times to bring the game within touching distance. but each time, the cardinal pushed them back away. graduate student guard madison cable and allen scored the first points of the quarter to bring the irish within two scores, but ju­nior guard Karlie samuelson moved the cardinal back into a comfortable position with a 3-pointer. 
when two free throws from allen brought the irish back to within four, junior guard brianna roberson sunk the 3-point shot that would wid­en the cardinal lead. Then, when cable brought the irish back within one score with 2:05 left on the clock, the first one-score differ­ence since exactly 20 min­utes beforehand, samuelson dealt the killer blow. as the shot clock expired, her effort from well beyond the three-point line struck the back­board before going through the hoop. mcgraw said the cardinal’s ability to score three-pointers at the most crucial times is what pre­vented a comeback. 
quarter, off one of Turner’s blocks. The irish did not steal the ball at all. 
senior guard michaela mabrey said the team’s de­fensive problems came as a result of the players’ failure to talk on the floor. 
“all our defense, we had no communication at all, and i tried to reinforce that at halftime, because that was all our problem was, just communicating,” mabrey said. “we just couldn’t get it down at all, and so it was just frustrating because i know that’s an easy thing we can switch.” 
down seven points a quar­ter in, the irish would even­tually rally to within two late in the fourth quarter, but as mabrey acknowledged, that initial deficit was something the team is unused to facing. 
“it just kind of sucks. … it’s really frustrating when they’re making everything they throw up,” she said. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 



“They  hit  a  dagger  3,”  
mcgraw  said.  “we  were  
focusing  in  on  find­ 
ing  samuelson  and  (lili)  

Thompson and i think roberson hit a 3 from the corner late in the game that really kind of got us. Then i think (marta) sniezek went down with like a coast-to­coast layup and nobody guarded her, and she went right in for a layup. They got us 5-0, and that was key. The 3 that samuelson hit with the shot clock going off with two seconds left and banked it in, that was one of those nights for them. They man­aged to make big plays. They made the free throws down the stretch. did everything they needed to do to win. i think normally you have to have the other team help you out. when you’re trying to come back, they have to miss some shots and we just couldn’t get them to miss.” 
with the irish forced to foul, the cardinal would not throw away the game from the free-throw line, mak­ing all six of their attempts within the last thirty sec­onds to win the game 90-84. mcgraw said she believed her team fought hard despite the defeat that will end their season. 
“i’m proud of the way we fought,” mcgraw said. “our seniors had a great season, a great year and we’ve been on the other side of this, and now it’s our turn to go home early and work on next year.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


Stopped short 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | norTh carolina 88, nd 74 
Notre Dame falls again in Elite Eight 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
philadelphia — Two roads diverged on a yellow court. 
and on sunday night at wells Fargo center, no. 6-seeded notre dame took the same path as the 63 other teams that had already been eliminated from the ncaa tournament, as no. 1-seeded north carolina finished off the irish, 88-74. 
“i’m very proud of this team,” senior forward Zach auguste said. “we made a lot of shots. it wasn’t easy for us this year, coming off a great run last year and we had a lot of expectations on us. i’m proud of every single one of these guys in here. we fought. we worked hard in the offsea­son and we made a great run.” 

north carolina entered the night as the last remaining no. 1 seed as no. 10-seeded syracuse knocked off virginia earlier in the evening and Kansas and oregon both lost saturday. 
and for a half, it looked like the Tar heels (32-6, 14-4 acc) were in some trouble as well. 
The irish (24-12, 11-7) re­versed a recent trend and came out strong to hold a 10-6 lead three minutes into the game off six quick points from junior forward v.J. beachem, 
see m bball PAGE 13 

Jackson declares for NBA Draft, will hire agent 
Observer Staff Report 
irish junior guard demetrius Jackson declared for the nba draft on Tuesday evening and plans to hire an agent, ending his notre dame career, a team spokesman confirmed. 
“i am blessed with the oppor­tunity to say i will be declaring for the nba draft,” Jackson said in an instagram post. “it was an honor to represent such a great university and program.” 
Jackson, who led notre dame with 15.8 points per game this season, is projected by many 
see JacKson PAGE 13 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | sTanFord 90, nd 84 
No. 1-seeded Irish miss Final Four for first time since 2010 

By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
leXingTon, Ky. — before no. 1 seed notre dame had even stepped on the court at rupp arena to face no. 4-seeded stanford, things looked to be falling into place for the irish. 
no. 7-seeded washington had knocked off no. 3 seed Kentucky for a place in the 
lexington  region  final,  
while in  sioux Falls,  south  
dakota,  top-seeded  south  

carolina fell to no. 4 seed syracuse; the path to the championship looked clear for the irish (33-2, 16-0 acc). Forty minutes later, there was 
no path. it was the cardinal (27­7, 14-4 pac-12) who advanced with a 90-84 victory as the irish missed a berth in the Final Four for the first time since 2010. 
in a frantically-paced first quarter, the irish took a 12-8 lead before stanford scored 10 unanswered points to make it 18-12. The difference between the teams would swing back and forth, but the cardinal would never relinquish that lead. by the end of the first quarter, the irish trailed 28-21, their first deficit at the end of the opening quarter since they travelled to louisville on Feb. 7. 
The irish offense worked as normal, but defensively the team continued to struggle in the second quarter as stanford wid­ened its lead to 50-39. it was the most the irish had trailed by at halftime since a Jan. 2015 defeat at miami (Fla.). The cardinal shot 20-of-31 for a .645 shooting percentage in the first half and were 6-of-9 from 3-point range. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said the cardinal simply out­played her team in the opening half. 
“i thought stanford was the better team today,” mcgraw said. “They played extremely well. i thought [junior forward erica] mccall was phenomenal, and we just didn’t have an answer for her in the first half. defensively we 
see w bball PAGE 15 

Michigan ousts ND in opening round of NCAA tournament 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
cincinnaTi — a tourna­ment game built up by a fierce rivalry and notre dame’s future move to the big Ten lived up to the hype Friday, as notre dame and michigan delivered another classic in the 135th meeting be­tween the two programs. 
The wolverines (25-7-5, 12-5­3 big Ten) came out on top this time around with a 3-2 overtime thriller over the irish (19-11-7, 15-5-2 hockey east). 
Two seemingly evenly-matched teams needed extra hockey to decide who would move on to the next round af­ter 60 minutes of play, and michigan junior forward Tyler motte netted the game-winner 
8:19 into the first overtime pe­riod to seal the win and a sec­ond-round matchup with no. 1 seed north dakota for the wolverines. 
“our guys played their hearts out,” irish head coach Jeff Jackson said after the game. “i’m extremely proud of them. our senior class has probably done a better job of leading as a combination of a group of play­ers that i’ve ever had, so i’m very proud of them.” 
michigan senior left wing Justin selman opened the scor­ing at the 10:31 mark with a rocket from the point off an of­fensive zone faceoff win, but irish sophomore anders bjork evened the game at 15:46 with an unassisted, top-shelf laser on a 2-on-1. The two goaltenders went toe-to-toe in the opening frame, with michigan senior steve racine stopping 12 of 13 shots and notre dame sopho­more cal petersen countering by getting in front of 10 of 11. 

defense was the difference for the irish in the middle pe­riod — that and senior forward Thomas dipauli. notre dame allowed only six shots from the wolverines’ high-powered of­fense in the frame, and dipauli staked notre dame to its first lead of the game just 24 sec­onds into the period, gliding the puck into the zone through two michigan defenders and 
see hocKey PAGE 14 

HOCKEY | michigan 3, nd 2 (oT) 




