The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 99 | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Finance expert addresses students 
Ackermann gives practical advice on how to maximize undergraduate experience and impact 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
curiosity, research and service are the main pillars of success, according to popular finance 
professional  specialist  carl  
ackermann.  
ackermann,  who  holds  

the nolan professorship for excellence in undergraduate instruction, shared his experi­ences and advice wednesday night in a speech titled “how to have an impactful undergraduate experience” for the second annual install­ment of the sorin scholars lec­ture series. The main purpose of ackermann’s speech was to advise students on how to lead a fulfilling life in their academic field and how to be socially impactful. 
according to his biography on the mendoza college of business’s website, ackermann “crusades against excessive fees in the investment industry, redi­recting them to fight poverty and despair.” in 2012, ackermann was named one of the top 10 business professors nationwide by businessweek, the website said. 
The event was sponsored by the center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse). Jeffrey Thibert, interim director and assistant director of nation­al fellowships for cuse, intro­duced ackermann and talked 
see ackermann PAGE 5 

ROSIE LoVOI | The Observer 
Professional specialist Carl Ackermann speaks to students on “How to Have an Impactful Undergraduate Experience” as part of the second annual installment of the Sorin Scholars lecture series. 


2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: MATTHEW HALL 



Trump boosted by Nevada 
By RACHEL O’GRADY news writer  primaries.  boiling point, and the vot­ers are rejecting their lead­ 
rachel o’grady: Trump  ership’s direction. second, if  
Editor’s Note: Throughout the  just pretty handily won  Trump succeeds, it may mean  
2016 presidential campaign,  nevada, and this is his third  a fundamental redefinition  
The Observer will sit down  win in a row. what does this  of the party’s stance on is- 
with Notre Dame experts to  mean for the republican  sues such as trade, taxes and  
break down the election and its  party? can Trump se­ foreign policy. can Trump  
importance to students. In this  cure the nomination?  win? of course he can win.  
sixth installment, News writer  matthew hall: i’d say it  Technically you or i can win  
Rachel O’Grady asks professor of  means two things for the  — the votes haven’t been cast  
political science and director of  republican party. First, the  yet, and anything could hap- 
graduate studies Matthew Hall  anger and frustration the  pen if this election goes to a  
about the consequences of the  party’s base feels toward  brokered convention. will  
results of the Nevada caucus and  the party elites has [been]  
the upcoming Super Tuesday  reaching an unprecedented  see elecTion PAGE 4  


smc candidates present platforms 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 
saint mary’s students assem­bled in noble Family dining hall on wednesday to listen to the platforms of the two stu­dent body president and vice president tickets. 
presidential candidate mckenzie Johnson said she and her running mate barbi prokup, both juniors, hope to generate more enthusiasm for the services the student government association (sga) provides for the college. 
“we really want to bring back the hype that student govern­ment is,” Johnson said. “we want people to be excited, and we want people to understand what we do and why we do it. i want to bring back a celebration of student involvement.” 
Johnson said she and 
see campaign PAGE 5 




ESPN lawsuit appeal finishes oral arguments 
Observer Staff Report 
attorneys from notre dame and espn delivered oral argu­ments before a three-judge panel in the indiana court of appeals on wednesday, the latest devel­opment in a lawsuit hinging on notre dame security police’s (ndsp) status as either a pub­lic or private agency, the south bend Tribune reported Tuesday afternoon. 
espn argued in its appeal that indiana’s access to public 



news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 men’s lacrosse PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


If you could have any superpower, what would you pick? 

Cecelia Nguyen 
senior off campus 
“steal others’ powers.” 

Roxanna Mendoza 
junior mcglinn hall 
“Teleport.” 

Terry Clines 
junior duncan hall 
“Teleportation.” 



Mariah Snook 
sophomore 
ryan hall 

“To remember everything and speak every language.” 

Luis Prieb 
sophomore 
Fisher hall 

“Temporarily multiply myself.” 

Kristhel Torre 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 

“Force field to keep people five feet away at all times.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
kayla mullen Zach klonsinski 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind marek mazurek megan valley 
Scene Graphics John darr lucy du Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Viewpoint Photo scott olehnik annmarie soller ND Women’s “Flint: Water, Race Axiom Brass ND Women’s Lacrosse “The Right to Vote” 
Basketball vs. Clemson and Accountability” DeBartolo Performing vs. California Law School Purcell Pavilion Law School Arts Center    Arlotta Stadium 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Discussion on voter ID 

Corrections 

The Irish take on the Lecture presented by Notre Dame The Irish take on the laws, voter fraud and 
The observer regards itself as Tigers. Julie Hurwitz. Symphony Orchestra. Golden Bears. federal oversight. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Fr. Ted Talk Hockey vs. BU Fr. Hesburgh Solemn Vespers International 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Recker’s Restaurant Compton Family Ice Memorial Concert Basilica of the Sacred Scholars Program 
however, recognize that we will make 
South Dining Hall Arena Basilica of the Sacred Heart Hesburgh Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8:30pm-9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. Heart 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 6 p.m.-7 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Professor Daniel The Irish take on the 8 p.m.-9 p.m. Evening prayer in the Informational meeting 
we can correct our error. 

Lapsley will present. Terriers. In honor of Fr. Hesburgh. Lady Chapel. for freshmen. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | The observer 


STUDENT SENATE 


Group examines food choices, offers feedback 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday evening for a question-and-answer session with scott kachmarik, direc­tor of student dining and resi­dences, as well as to approve both the sophomore and Junior class council elections and declare winning tickets. 
appointed to his position in January, kachmarik intro­duced upcoming initiatives on staff recruitment and cit­ed catering to student needs about food sourcing, meal plan structures, and popu­lar menu items as his main priorities. 
kachmarik also highlighted the importance of student feedback to his role. 
“i’ve been spending a lot of time in the dining halls work­ing with the staff ... i want to make sure i’m spending a lot of time there, figuring out ways to have you approach me, stop me, give me suggestions,” kachmarik said. “There’s three questions i’ve been ask­ing: what are the things that we currently do that we need to keep doing? ... what things we do that we need to improve on? ... what do we have to stop doing? clearly as we look at the data, it tells us strawber­ries are popular. There are some things that we are try­ing to work on and bring into the menus more consistently.” 

walsh hall sophomore senator sarah kim addressed the idea of restructuring meal plans and adjusting the bal­ance between Flex points and meal swipes. 
“i just wanted more options ... a lot of people can’t grab lunch in between classes,” kim said. 
kachmarik emphasized his commitment to working with students to implement initia­tives that benefitted them. 
“we want to make sure we find that balance between hectic lifestyles and the abil­ity to slow down and connect with each other,” kachmarik said. 
howard sophomore senator amy smikle addressed the popularity of burger and fa­jita nights, and the possibil­ity of including meat in the dining halls for non-religious students on Fridays during the observance of lent. 
welsh Family sophomore senator kathleen Flavin ex­pressed hope for better grab­and-go options. however, 
paid adverTisemenT 

kachmarik encouraged stu­dents to eat in the dining halls. 
“The ... intention of Flex points and grab-and-go is to serve as a complement to the meal plan, not to replace the meal plan,” kachmarik said. “ ... our main goal and our main intentions are for students to eat in the dining hall. grab-and-go and Flex points are a way to acknowl­edge busy lifestyles.” 
due to both the sophomore and Junior class council elections having only one ticket, the student senate ap­proved a motion to suspend both elections and declare winners. 
The incoming sophomore class council will have michael conlon as president, mary ninneman as vice pres­ident, christopher lembo as treasurer and Jane driano as secretary. 
sara dugan will serve as president of the incoming Junior class council with Janet stengle serving as vice-president, paul stevenson as treasurer and matthew peters as secretary. 

Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 
gender relations club aims to build discourse 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Junior caylin mccallick saw a lack of conversation between different genders at saint mary’s and notre dame and decided to found the Justice education gender relations group (Jegrg) in order to spark and facilitate that conversation. 
“i realized that i had no out­lets of engaging in academic conversation with different genders,” mccallick said. “i just want to talk to people. i want to engage in higher-level discussion about the issues we face — and i want to do it in an environment that’s void of solo cups and Tinder.” 
according to mccallick, the group, which she is doing as an independent academic study project, will meet once per week for four weeks. she said it will have a loose struc­ture in hopes of creating open conversations about subjects varying from how different genders interact to sex posi­tivity to domerFest. 
“This group is my way of finding people with similar feelings who want to have a serious, safe dialogue about gender,” mccallick said. “what am i blind to? what do you know that i should know too?” 
mccallick said the main fo­cus of the group is creating a space in which dialogue of this type can occur. 
“i realized that i didn’t re­ally know how to communi­cate with opposite genders because on this campus mostly i just speak with fe­males,” mccallick said. “i realized that was a com­mon problem because i saw people ... in different social situations. we’re all educat­ed people, and yet when we meet each other, it becomes this dumb game. ... i wanted to figure out why that is and delve deeper in the discrep­ancies between genders.” 
mccallick said she wants to create a continuous con­versation in which women can speak with men on a professional level in addition to romantic or social contex in order to find the deeper meaning behind certain ideas about other genders. 
“i feel like i judge very quickly, especially men,” mccallick said. “i don’t know where that comes from in my soul. i just want to talk to someone face-to-face and fig­ure out why i am having this defensive against you and fig­ure out what we can do about it, so that we both can rise be­cause there’s this strange so­cial stigma and i don’t know where it comes from.” 
according to mccallick, the group will give members the opportunity to engage with and learn the perspectives of people different from them. The group’s dynamic will strengthen communication skills, a tool that will be ben­eficial later in life, she said. 
“i think it’s important because [notre dame and saint mary’s are] both insti­tutions of higher learning,” mccallick said. “we can ben­efit from representing our schools in the business world by knowing how to speak with someone appropriately and knowing what the other side of the issue is.” 
mccallick estimates the group will have 10 female-identifying members and 10­male identifying members, but it is open to people who identify as any gender. 
“i want it to be balanced among genders,” mccallick said. “i’m not just saying male and female — i want all genders. i want the balance because i don’t want any one to take control more than the other. ... we can get really de­fensive, and the biggest thing is it has to be a safe environ­ment to say things. you don’t want to get people on the defensive.” 
The group will begin meet­ing after spring break. For more information on how to join, email mccallick at cmc­cal01@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



SMC closes due to blizzard warning 
community sent earlier in 

Observer Staff Report 

the day. saint mary’s closed at 4 p.m. “angela athletic center wednesday due to a blizzard will be open and meals will warning for saint Joseph be served as scheduled,” the county, the college an-email stated. “please stay nounced in an email to the safe and warm.” 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Keough School names dean 
Observer Staff Report 
The university of notre dame announced wednesday the appointment of sara sievers as associate dean for policy and practice in the new keough school of global affairs, ac­cording to a university press release. 
sievers, an expert in interna­tional policy and governance issues related to development, will also serve as an associate professor of the practice in the school, the release said. 
sievers has previously served as the founding execu­tive director of the center on globalization and sustainable development at columbia university and harvard university’s center for international development, the release stated. in the past, sievers had worked for the united states embassy in kiev, ukraine as the vice consul for political and eco­nomic affairs and as a special assistant to the assistant sec­retary for legislative affairs in washington, d.c., the release said. she earned a ba in gov­ernment from harvard and an mba from the massachusetts institute of Technology, and has taught international devel­opment at both harvard and columbia, according to the press release. 
The keough school of global affairs will welcome its first class of students in fall 2017, ac­cording to the school’s website. 


crossroads worker injured 
Observer Staff Report 

a contractor working on the campus crossroads con­struction project suffered non life-threatening injuries after a construction accident around 10 a.m. wednesday, university spokesperson 31-year-old male, was hit in the head by a hose pour­ing concrete and taken to memorial hospital. brown said the university had no further information to re­lease at the time of the email. 
dennis  brown said in  an  
email.  
The  contractor,  a  

The campus crossroads project began construction in november 2014, and this is the first related accident re­ported to the public. 
Election 
conTinued From page 1 
he win? There’s no way to tell for sure, and if this elec­tion has taught us anything, it’s that experts can’t pre­dict what is going to happen. 
rog: super Tuesday is this coming Tuesday. what should we be looking for? how much does it matter? 
mh: ordinarily, super Tuesday favors candidates who can compete on a large scale. unlike the early states, in which retail politics can propel an unknown candi­date into the spotlight, on the super Tuesday the advantage goes to candidates with name recognition, media atten­tion and money. That means it should be even easier for Trump to win big. The real question: can rubio or cruz win any state at all — other than cruz winning Texas? if not, Trump appears to be unstoppable. 
rog: looking more at the democrats, sanders beat clinton significantly on young women 18 - 24 years old. what does this mean for either one of their cam­paigns? will this hurt clinton long term? 
mh: i doubt clinton’s lack of support among young vot­ers — or specifically, young women — will hurt her if she secures the nomination. i’d wager that most of these young voters will support clinton in a general election. The critical questions mov­ing forward are: 1. whether young people turn out to vote in large numbers and 2. whether younger hispanic and african american vot­ers continue to move toward sanders. if either or both of those things happen, clinton may have a difficult time se­curing the nomination. 
rog: in your research and opinion, what do you think will be the most important issue in the general election? 
mh: i think it largely de­pends on world events, which i cannot predict. what hap­pens in syria. what happens on the stock market. usually, events drive the discussion more than anything else, so i can’t predict what the discus­sion of issues will look like. if it’s Trump vs. clinton, i would expect little focus on issues at all. instead, i’d expect a cam­paign of insults, posturing and scandals. 
rog: Taking it back to col­lege campuses, particularly here at nd, primaries in many of our home states are coming up. what is something we, as college students, should be paying particular attention to? 
mh: everyone should be figuring out right now where and how they can vote. can you register here in indiana? can you vote absentee back home? our current politics look the way they do because young people don’t partici­pate. if every college student who talked about the election on soil media actually voted, we would get wildly different outcomes. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 



Appeal 
conTinued From page 1 
duis — these are not the ac­tions of your library secu­rity guard who is there to make sure that kids don’t take books,” espn attorney maggie smith said, according to an audio recording of the oral arguments available on the indiana Judicial branch’s website. 
espn filed a lawsuit against the university in January 2015 after ndsp refused to release incident reports related to student-athletes on two sepa­rate occasions. 
since october 2014, two state officials — public access counselor luke britt and attorney general greg Zoeller — have said they be­lieve notre dame to be subject to apra. although hostetler ruled in notre dame’s favor, he said there were “persua­sive reasons” for the indiana legislature to amend public record laws. 
during the appeal, the judges referenced indiana house bill 1022, which would change state law to require private university police de­partments to disclose cer­tain records. The bill passed unanimously in the senate in January and will soon be voted on in the senate. 
Throughout the trial pro­cess, notre dame has main­tained its stance that indiana lawmakers did not intend for apra to apply to private col­leges and universities. 
“certainly, the question be­fore the court here is whether or not the notre dame po­lice department is a public agency subject to the law,” notre dame attorney damon leichty said. “… we think the statute is plainly clear. we think the specific provision that defines ‘law enforcement agency’ clearly does not cap­ture this department.” 
leichty said ndsp de­rives its power to arrest from the notre dame board of Trustees, not the state. however, Judge rudolph pyle questioned how this power to arrest was “magically” giv­en to the board of Trustees, when the state of indiana is listed as the authority behind any charges. 
ndsp currently releases a limited amount of informa­tion about campus crimes, in compliance with the cleary act, which applies to all schools that receive federal funding. 
smith argued there are al­ready mechanisms in place that allow public colleges and universities to fulfill with their cleary act obligations and their obligations to com­ply with public record laws. 
“The functions performed by the notre dame police de­partment, in its context of being an educational police force, are exactly the same as the functions performed from iu, purdue, ball state,” she said. “[They] are subject to both, and they do it just fine.” 
if the court finds private universities to be subject to public record laws, leichty investigation agencies and said the court would issue a said other private enti-railroad companies — would ruling “as soon as possible,” ties with police depart-be impacted. though she did not provide a ments — including hospitals, chief Judge nancy vaidik timeline. 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | The observer 





Campaign 
conTinued From page 1 
prokup  would  foster  a  com­ 
fortable  environment  with  
open communication.  

“we really want to open our­selves up as two individuals leading,” Johnson said. “we want you guys to be able to approach us and tell us what problems and concerns you’re having with anything.” 
Johnson said students seek­ing advice should feel free to consult Johnson and prokup, who plan to hold open office hours. 
“you can come and talk to us and confide in us if you have issues,” Johnson said. “a lot of the time people don’t know who they’re supposed to go to.” 
prokup said the ticket would initiate an anti-bullying pro­gram to promote awareness and to ensure students feel safe and happy on campus. 
“we really want saint mary’s to be a comfortable zone for each and every one of our students,” prokup said. “what we want to do is cre­ate support groups, where if you are experiencing a bully in your life, and you want to have someone to talk to, we want to be there.” 
prokup said she hopes to increase support for stu­dent athletes by incorpo­rating them more into sga. according to prokup, increas­ing attendance at games re­lates to the campaign’s goal of promoting inclusivity on campus, which they would also accomplish through designing a support pro­gram with the belles against violence office (bavo). 
“we want to team with bavo to create a safe space program that serves as a support group for students facing difficulties,” prokup said. “people can learn how to help people in their time of need. whatever you’re go­ing through — whether it’s a death in the family or stress at school — that’s what this program is designed to do.” 
Junior sga presidential candidate emma mccarthy said her and fellow junior run­ning mate mary Joy dingler’s love for saint mary’s inspired them to run in the election. 
“if you would have asked me three years ago when i came to campus if i ever saw myself in this role, i would have said absolutely not,” mccarthy said. “however, over the past three years, saint mary’s has become more than just a school to me. it has become my home. i am inspired every­day by the incredible women who surround me.” 
mccarthy said she feels prepared to embrace any challenges that would arise if she were elected. 
“i understand the level of commitment that this posi­tion calls for, and i am more than willing to answer that call,” mccarthy said. “being student body president is a huge responsibility and one that i will not take lightly.” 
dingler said she and mccarthy want to inform the saint mary’s community of upcoming events by sending out weekly newsletters. 
“so many emails get lost in the black holes of our in­boxes,” dingler said. “i think it’s important that we all have an itemized list of what’s hap­pening on campus.” 
dingler and mccarthy also plan to host a week-long cele­bration for faculty and staff of the college, dingler said. 
“They strive every day to make this campus a better place, and emma and i believe that often their work goes unnoticed and without rec­ognition,” dingler said. “in re­sponse to that, we really want to plan a thank-you week to show our appreciation.” 
The pair also hopes to implement a fall formal to promote bonding between up­perclassmen and newer stu­dents, according to dingler. such an emphasis on commu­nity events will encourage a welcoming and non-judgmen­tal campus, dingler said. 
“a home away from home implies that we all have an in­herent respect and acceptance for our sisters,” dingler said. “emma and i wholeheartedly believe in a community that fosters a vibrant sisterhood that is unbreakable by preju­dice or disdain.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 



Ackermann 
conTinued From page 1 
about cuse’s mission. 
“The mission of cuse is to enable notre dame graduates to build on what they do in the classroom with activities outside the classroom,” Thibert said. “we want you ideally to see your undergraduate years as the be­ginning of a life’s work. you don’t have to wait until graduation to see positive change around you.” 
ackermann began his lecture by talking about the importance of research through the lens of his own experience with re­search in a graduate program at the university of north carolina chapel hill. 
“being able to investigate a program from so many angles is unbelievably intellectually satis­fying,” ackermann said. “if you are interested in it, an exciting career at the forefront of discov­ery awaits you.” 
low-hanging fruit where you can immediately improve the fortunes.” 
ackermann encouraged stu­dents to utilize the resources available to them around cam­pus such as the career center, the writing center and the 

“If you volunteer in the field of your professional expertise, you can magnify your potential in that field.” 
Carl Ackermann 
professional specialist 
finance 
center for social concerns. he also said while in college, stu­dents should not neglect nutri­tion and personal finance. 
“contrary to popular belief, beer, kraft mac-and-cheese, 


paid adverTisemenT 
ramen noodles and pop-Tarts are not the major food groups,” ackermann said. “learning how to eat right is important because it’s correlated to other behaviors. if you master personal finance in your early 20s, you can accu­mulate so much more than if you started in your 30s. by gaining command of your personal fi­nances you’ll be able to acceler­ate and magnify your personal contribution.” 
ackermann also stressed the importance of fun and well-be­ing. sometimes these areas can be overshadowed by the impor­tance placed on academics, he said. in order to combat this, he said he maintains a daily goal to try and make one person’s day. 
he then told the audience to look under their seats. under one person’s seat, ackermann had taped a $20 bill for a student to keep. 
“remember it’s easier to be fun and nice — it’s probably easier than being mean,” he said. 
students should take more risks, ackermann said, such as joining start-up companies with the knowledge that there is a high likelihood of failure or studying abroad in a country where they are do not know the language. ackermann said the experience he felt he learned the most from was the time he worked as a soc­cer referee in an ethnically di­verse neighborhood in boston, where many of the players’ first language was not english. 
“There’s almost no risk to these experiences if you take them on now,” ackermann said. “The times i’ve grown the most in life are when i’ve deliberately placed myself in uncomfortable situa­tions. by being too closed, i’ve missed out on so many missed opportunities. believe it or not, you’ll have more free time in col­lege than you will at any other time in your life.” 

Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 
ackermann said one of the most important tools to have, even in his field of finance, are developed, articulate writing skills. 
“excellent writing is the key distinguisher in almost every field,” ackermann said. “Turns out, almost everyone in the field can do the math, so it’s the peo­ple that can communicate the best that excel.” 
ackermann went on to talk about how he thought one of the most admirable qualities notre dame students possessed was their commitment to service. he himself takes part in service by helping employees of local ser­vice organizations plan for their financial future, he said. 
“if you volunteer in the field of your professional expertise, you can magnify your potential in that field,” ackermann said. “if you work in a field that tra­ditionally does less service, like mine, you can actually have a lot of impact. … There’s a lot of 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Try, don’t cry 
Rachel O’Grady 
news writer 

i have a problem with feminism. it’s not necessarily with the word, or even the movement itself, but rather the stigma attached to it. i don’t like the idea that, for some reason, women need more help than men to achieve equality, or whatever word you want to use. 
The idea for this column has been floating around in my head for a while, and a few minutes prior to writing it, i casually threw out the idea to a group of white males. contrary to what you’d expect, i was vehemently shot down by four of the guys there. They criticized my argument for all the right reasons. They poked holes in my logic, called me out for my igno­rance and frustrated me to the point where i basically told them to help me think of something better to write for tonight’s column. 
“i thought you didn’t need help, you were doing this on your own. you’re letting the men win,” one of them said, partially jokingly. i rolled my eyes, but it made me realize everything wrong with how i ap­proach feminism. Fundamentally, i don’t disagree. i look at my own life and have realized, in retrospect, that there have been a few instances in which things could have gone better for me if i were a male. i re­alized that, particularly in areas of leadership and negotiation, i have been treated differently because i am a woman. i realized that even one of those guys had, at one point, probably unintentionally treated me differently because i was a girl. 
but i hadn’t realized any of this at the time, be­cause i was too concerned with boosting myself up, not making excuses and not allowing my gender to characterize me. Fundamentally, that’s what i don’t like about feminism. i don’t like being told i’m at a disadvantage simply because of my chromosome pair. i would like to think i am capable, regardless of that. 
when i was pretty young, my dad had a saying something to the effect of “o’gradys try, don’t cry.” For better or for worse, this has guided the bulk of my life. when faced with adversity, i generally try and face it with this approach, and it’s worked out decent­ly well for me. i view feminism in the same way. as much as someone — or studies upon studies — can say that i will forever be at a significant disadvantage because i’m a woman, it doesn’t really matter. it’s another challenge, one that i get to face with about 50 percent of the population. we all, unfortunately, have our challenges to overcome. do i think there is an un­due burden on women to ‘prove’ somehow that they are worthy of a position typically held by a man? sure. do i think that pressure hasn’t shaped women into being even better and more terrific leaders than the men that came before them? absolutely. challenges are there to help us to become better people, and the challenge i face as a female is just another one of them. 
when you’re done reading this, turn back to the news section (please!). all the articles on the front page (and subsequent four pages) were written by girls. That isn’t unusual; the news department has been called a matriarchy, almost nightly. look around campus, to the leaders of our clubs and so­cieties. There is a prominent female presence nearly everywhere. This doesn’t mean that women don’t need to be better represented across the board, but it’s a step. it’s the first step in a series that we need to keep taking in this general effort. i’m glad, because this conversation changed the way i think about feminism. however, fundamentally, i think we col­lectively, as women, need to try, not cry. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Eddie Damstra 
dinner Table Talks 
we have a political polarization problem in america to­day. people’s party affiliations often leave little wiggle room for issue stances. There are certain expectations for party affiliates. These expectations essentially act as restrictions on the ideas party members can have. certainly there are republicans and democrats who fail to meet the expecta­tions of their party on some issues. however, the point re­mains that for the vast majority of party members, political expectations are a main driving force in forming their posi­tions on an issue. perhaps this isn’t the worst thing. after all, a political party is a group organized of people with similar beliefs. isn’t it only natural that such political expectations will present themselves? i believe so. however, i also believe certain issues should transcend the restrictions imposed by political expectations. The most significant of such issues is abortion. 
abortion is one of the most politically polarizing issues in the united states. generally speaking, republicans are more pro-life and democrats are more pro-choice. There is relatively little variance from that pattern. The political polarization of abortion is a significant problem. it is a prob­lem not only because it fuels political gridlock and hopeless bickering, but also because it pressures people into comply­ing with party positions in substitution for contemplative idea formation. 
abortion should not be a politically polarizing issue. i am not asserting that abortion isn’t a polarizing issue, but simply that the polarization of the issue should not be party-based. i don’t know of any inherent characteristic of either party that causes it to take either a pro-life or pro-choice position. abortion should not be decided along party lines because the true issue is not political. The controversy when talking about abortion is the question of whether or not the procedure terminates the life of a human being. 
nearly every sane person would agree that if it abortion resulted in the termination of a human then the act should be prohibited by law and categorized as morally abhorrent. The answer to the question of whether abortion terminates a human should be the reason for one’s stance on abortion. political ideology should be separate from the issue of abor­tion because the issue has nothing to do with politics; the issue is solely about humanity. 
The question of whether abortion ends a human life is the main question when speaking of abortion. however, answering the question requires one to answer another question first. before one can answer whether abortion is murder, one must answer the question of when human personhood begins. The reason i use the word “human personhood” in place of “human life” is because the start­ing point of human life is generally agreed upon within the scientific community. in the college text book “psychology and life”, dr. Floyd l. ruch writes “at the time of concep­tion, two living germ cells — the sperm from the father and the egg, or ovum, from the mother — unite to produce a new individual.” similarly, dr. herbert ratner, a renowned physician, teacher and lecturer, once wrote, “it is now of un­questionable certainty that a human being comes into ex­istence precisely at the moment when the sperm combines with the egg.” while there are certainly some who deny that life begins at conception, the general consensus among biologists and doctors is that life begins at fertilization. 
many pro-choice advocates would point out that human life does not equate to human personhood. however, i would argue that such a statement begins one on a slippery slope. creating qualifications for personhood is discrimina­tory and dangerous. when is the magical moment when a baby becomes a person? does a baby transform from some sort of living non-person into a full person at birth? logic leads us to believe this is not the case. science tells us that life begins at conception, and reason tells us that person-hood begins when life begins. 
abortion is a complex issue. however, it should not be plagued by hopeless political gridlock. one should attempt to view abortion not through the lens of a political party, but rather through the lens of science and reason. The late christopher hitchens once said, “i feel the responsibility to consider the occupant of the womb as a candidate mem­ber of society in the future, and thus to say that it cannot be only the responsibility of the woman to decide upon it, that it’s a social question and an ethical and a moral one. and i say this as someone who has no supernatural belief.” abortion is not a political issue, or even for that matter a religious issue; it is a human issue. we should start treating it as such. 
Eddie Damstra is a freshman from Orland Park, Illinois. He is majoring in political science and is considering attending law school after his time as an undergraduate at the University of Notre Dame. He can be reached at edamstra@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Join the labor conversation 
in the all-staff Town hall meeting conducted yesterday, the leaders of our university gave a 15-minute summary of changes to benefit plans for campus workers, then focused for the remainder of the hour on the student-centered en­hancements, such as the burger king replacement and the new rock climbing wall. workers whispered “when can i get a raise?,” struggling to connect the content’s relevance to their work and families. Fr. Jenkins proceeded to doze off during the discussion, epitomizing the stark discon­nect between administrative policymakers and those who clean our halls. what if it was an audience of donors or students? 
since campus workers now clock-in at their respective buildings, rather than a centralized location, they do not have the opportunity to join together to talk about issues and strengthen friendships. This town hall meeting pre­sented a unique opportunity for all workers to gather to­gether. however, they were summoned to be lectured; they were not called as participants in the conversation about decisions that affect their livelihoods and families. 
executive vice president John affleck–graves commu­nicated the results from the improvend survey and high­lighted “being open to suggestions” as one of the areas that the campus identified as needing improvement. based on personal conversations we’ve had with campus workers, we know workers are afraid to provide suggestions at these meetings about critical issues that affect their personal and family well-being. The fact that workers fear raising issues that affect them at the workplace demonstrates that notre dame is not living up to its mission statement which es­pouses a commitment “to constructive and critical engage­ment with the whole of human culture.” engagement with the whole of human culture starts at home, and the all-staff meeting blatantly lacked the voice and engagement of workers. Questions were not accepted until the allotted meeting time had elapsed, by which time workers had to get back to their buildings before their lunch break ended. 
as a community, it is our obligation to ensure that all members of our community are valued and respected. what changes are necessary to achieve this? if we care, we actively listen to the needs of others, and do not doze. if we care, we form relationships with every member of our com­munity, and work to meet their needs. 
we hope that the conversation continues and, as John affleck–graves said, “we will do better.” if you would like to further discuss labor issues on this campus, consider join­ing the conversation on Tuesdays at 7:15 in geddes b036. 
Allison Raines 
freshman 
Hannah Petersen 
senior Feb. 24 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer endorses Johnson-Prokup 

EDITORIAL 

The observer editorial board interviewed the candi­dates for saint mary’s student body president and vice president, juniors mckenzie Johnson and barbi prokup and juniors emma mccarthy and mary Joy dingler, on Tuesday evening. The candidates summarized their goals for the upcoming year and explained their experiences with the college’s student government association (sga). after reviewing the candidates’ plans, goals and qualifications, we endorse Johnson and prokup for student body president and vice president. 
Johnson-prokup proposed revamping the new big belle, little belle program and providing the first-year and junior duos with more structured events that pro­mote mentorship and sisterhood. They also introduced the idea of a transfer program in which current saint mary’s students could sign up to be a “sister belle” to a transfer student and help her feel welcome as she adjusts to life at saint mary’s. 
To boost attendance at sporting events and foster a supportive community, Johnson-prokup suggested cre­ating a position for a student-athlete liaison. This liasion would help to promote sporting events through email newsletters and raise awareness about the athletic pro­grams. in light of the renovation of the athletic fields and angela athletic Facility, Johnson-prokup said they want all students to use these new facilities and support their fellow belles. 
both candidates recognized the amount of emails students receive and suggested consolidating campus events into one email. Johnson-prokup suggested a monthly newsletter, while mccarthy-dingler suggested a weekly email. The idea is a good one, but we also feel that a weekly email will be a difficult logistical undertaking, while monthly emails would be too infrequent. 
The tickets both also said they want to strengthen the relationship between students and security through better communication and forums. Johnson-prokup, if elected, said they plan to implement a forum on the mysaintmarys portal that would allow students to send suggestions to security and receive responses. mccarthy-dingler introduced the idea of a student li­aison who would work with the security department to voice concerns. 
each ticket expressed a need for safe spaces on cam­pus, but Johnson-prokup had more concrete plans for implementing this idea. They said they plan to work with the belles against violence office (bavo) to create a sup­port group led by connie adams, director of bavo, for students who have experienced violence and added they want it to be open to anyone who needs a place to talk to peers or professionals about any problems. This idea falters, though, at the ticket’s plan to allow dorm rooms to serve as student-led safe places for other students to seek support about various problems. we feel this could become problematic if students overlook professional help and rely solely on peers for issues regarding their health and personal well-being. 
we also believe Johnson and prokup should reconsider their anti-bullying campaign. They said they plan to address current issues through awareness and preven­tion programming. while this is well-intentioned, their plans do not address the severity of the hate speech that has taken place on campus and instead diminish these occurrences to mere bullying. we agree with them that campus leaders should take a stand, but we don’t believe an anti-bullying campaign alone is the most effective route for addressing instances of harassment. 
mccarthy-dingler suggested one “paperless” day per semester to promote sustainability and cut down on printing costs and waste. while ideas of creating a more sustainable campus are important, we feel this idea is not realistic. we agree the college should explore recy­cling options and campus sustainability, but one “pa­perless” day does not seem practical because professors would need to alter due dates and allow computers in all classes. 
both tickets have good ideas, potential to lead the stu­dent body and an interest in collaborating heavily with college president-elect Jan cervelli, but Johnson and prokup have best expressed tangible goals and the con­fidence to introduce new positions and programs in sga that will impact the campus community. 
we believe Johnson’s experience as president of the residence hall association and prokup’s role as an out­sider to student government will benefit the student body with fresh, realistic ideas to improve all students’ saint mary’s experience. 
Filling an empty seat 
Erich Jegier 
guest columnist 

The death of supreme court Justice antonin scalia makes a dynamic presidential campaign even more tur­bulent as president obama considers his course of action to fill the court’s new void. yet with all the uncertainty, this situation has the potential to be heralded as a quint­essential example of how the united states’ system of checks and balances can bring moderation to an increas­ingly polarized political sphere. in a campaign season laden with rhetoric of a broken system of government and candidates who are self-proclaimed anti-establishment, president obama’s decision on how to maneuver through this unique appointment process could not only affirm the efficacy of american government and legislators, but also restore faith in the system. 
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell and senate Judiciary chair chuck grassley, both republicans, have followed up on their initial statements regarding obama’s right to appoint scalia’s successor. grassley, after back­tracking slightly and saying he would “wait and see,” dug his heels in for the obstructionist cause monday by quoting a 1992 speech made by then-senator Joe biden, in which biden rejected the hypothetical possibility of president george h.w. bush making a nomination to the high court should a seat have opened up during his last year in office. on Tuesday, mcconnell firmly stated on the republican-controlled senate floor that, “in this case, the senate will withhold [consent],” if presented with a scoTus nomination by president obama. shortly afterwards on the same day, republicans on the senate Judiciary committee published a letter to mcconnell stating their intention to withhold consent on any nomi­nee president obama submits, a further indication of the gop’s unwavering position. 
with the court scheduled to rule on several landmark cases in the upcoming year, the gop’s motivation for ini­tiating this gridlock is obvious. as the jurisprudence of the court hangs in a delicate balance following the loss of the conservative scalia, republicans fear a liberal appoint­ment would strip them of the ideological advantage that they had previously enjoyed on the court. democrats, on the other hand, see this as a timely opportunity to finally pull the court over to the left — an opportunity liberals say was rightfully earned by president obama’s election in 2008 and reelection in 2012. despite gop protests claim­ing that waiting for the newly elected president to make the appointment would yield a Justice who is more in line with current public interest, democratic leadership in­sists that the nation already spoke in the last presidential election cycle, and the presidential responsibility to make court appointments does not diminish towards the end of a term — an opinion president obama personally echoes. The president stands firm in his decision to make a nomi­nation, and has already begun reading through files on potential candidates. 
The catch for senate republicans is the unpredictability of the upcoming election, especially when party nomina­tions are still very much unknown. if they use their major­ity to vote down a supreme court appointment made by obama in the upcoming months, they risk facing nomina­tions from another democratic president, possibly even the hyper-liberal, democratic-socialist bernie sanders. This defeat for republicans could even be magnified by the loss of their senate majority in the 2016 election cycle, a result that would all but guarantee confirmation of a liberal nominee. Furthermore, in an election season with strong emphasis on voter turnout, republican denial of a good liberal candidate could make the gop look overly obstructionist and rile up enough distaste among the democratic base to get a strong liberal showing at the polls come november. 
given the dogged resolve shown so far by both the senate Judiciary committee and president obama, it may be in the gop’s best interest to hedge its bets and give legitimate consideration to president obama’s nominee (a course of action that has already found public favor from some divergent senate republicans). likewise, it may be in the best interest of president obama to nominate a moderate or even slightly left-of-center candidate, know­ing senate republicans would be hard pressed not to confirm the nomination in an attempt to minimize their potential losses. 
with this in mind, Judge srikanth “sri” srinivasan of the 
d.c. circuit court of appeals seems to be an appealing candidate for obama’s nomination. he has already been vetted by the senate and was unanimously confirmed for his current position by a 97-0 vote in 2013. a srinivasan nomination would be tough for the gop to pass up — he is a highly qualified, bipartisan candidate, and he has a professional history sympathetic to republican interests in large corporations and big oil, including representing both exxonmobil and enron during his time as corpo­rate litigator for o’melveny & myers. he would be the first asian-american to serve on the supreme court, and presidential hopeful Ted cruz, along with several other republican senators, openly praised srinivasan’s work at the judge’s court of appeals confirmation hearing in 2013 (though cruz, also a current member of the senate Judiciary committee, still rejects the idea that srinivasan should be nominated in a lame-duck session). 
For a branch of government intended to give impartial rulings that set precedents lasting indefinitely into the future, the supreme court has always been somewhat political. yet in a country that is increasingly being defined by its partisan divide, it is more crucial now than ever to fill the supreme court with judges who are not only smart, capable and distinguished, but who are also rational, unbiased and open-minded. we need a court that is will­ing and able to deliberate on the bench instead of simply adhering to a politically predictable set of rulings. and we need a full court now, not a year from now, so the upcom­ing court decisions set national precedent instead of de­faulting to the lower court’s decision, which carries much less weight. 
whether srinivasan or another moderate to slightly liberal candidate will, in fact, end up being appointed and confirmed is anybody’s guess. yet if this course of action is indeed taken, it will be a major victory, not for democrats or republicans, but for american government and politi­cal process. at a time when bipartisan agreement is nearly impossible to find and political gridlock is greater than ever, this supreme court appointment presents an oppor­tunity to move in the right direction — something short of cooperation, but at the very least effectively operating within the system of government established by america’s founders, and in doing so, making a decision not for one ideological extreme or the other, but for america and its people as a whole. 
Erich Jegier is a junior from Sorin College studying electrical engineering and international economics. He welcomes and encourages meaningful discourse on his writings. Please contact him at ejegier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LUCY DU | The Observer 

The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

For the first time in a while, i’m actually excited to watch “The walking dead.” 
The episodes over the past two weeks have proven this show still has legs, unlike a few of the zombies rick and his friends have faced. This most recent episode, “The next world,” escaped the exhausting melodrama that has bogged down the show for the past couple of sea­sons by settling in and focusing on a few characters in a peaceful, mostly zombie-free episode. it’s a stark change of pace from the also excellent mid-season premiere, “no way out,” which was one of the most thrilling and tense, action-oriented episodes we’ve had in quite some time. 
Together, these two episodes are the highest point the show has reached in years. but of particular interest is “The next world” because it subverts viewer expecta­tions and is all the better for it. “no way out” left rick and co. in a particularly dreadful place: alexandria had just barely managed to survive another onslaught of zom­bies, a number of the cast fell to the walkers and carl’s life is still on the line. 
instead of dealing with the immediate consequences of this mess, “The next world” skips those ramifications entirely, jumping ahead two full months. alexandria is 
By ADRIAN LORE 
scene writer 

in a sense, the output of matmos is the opposite of electronic music. The baltimore duo is notorious for isolating mundane sounds — from bread ovens to ciga­rette butts — and acknowledging their hidden beauty, using their electronics merely as tools to draw them out of the field recordings that form the basis of many of their albums. Their oblique creative process has cer­tainly pushed the envelope of experimental production since the start of their career in the late ‘90s, but clear in the attitudes of the two producers is that their ap­proach to music is not so technical as it is deferential, a way of paying due attention to the ongoing sound that envelops the organic world. 
“ultimate care ii” follows 2001’s pleasantly perplex­ing “a chance to cut is a chance to cure,” an album composed primarily out of the sounds of plastic sur­geries and other medical procedures, and 2006’s unex­pectedly moving “The rose has Teeth in the mouth of a beast,” many of whose songs evolve like a postmodern­ist radio drama. The concept behind “ultimate care ii,” the duo’s latest release, is in its apparent ludicrousness simply another variation upon a theme, one rather at home in their discography. 
and matmos’s latest is truly a “release” rather than “album” or even “song.” what else to call the continu­ous 38-minute journey through the musical dominion of home appliances? perhaps we are classical purists in not calling it a fully realized concerto. The central back up and running, completely devoid of walkers. The characters seem to be over their grieving and are dili­gently working to keep alexandria this way. even carl is back in the action, albeit with one less eye. life seems normal, or at least as normal as life can get several years after the apocalypse. 
This sense of normality that pervades throughout the episode allows for a unique exploration of the characters and life around alexandria. carl and enid hang out in the woods like typical teenagers until enid gets sick of it in typical angsty teenager fashion. michonne also tracks spenser, deanna’s son, into the woods as he tries to get closure over his mother’s death. carl ends up leading the zombified deanna toward spenser so he can finally put her to rest. 
while the run-up to this sequence was a bit less than perfect, the payoff is definitely rewarding when michonne and carl’s storylines finally converge. michonne confronts carl at night about the incident, and we get a strangely touching moment when carl reveals that he would want to be the one to kill off michonne if she became a walker. 
The big draw of this episode, though, is rick and daryl’s storyline as they go on a buddy road-trip on the quest for supplies. here, we see a kind of rick that hasn’t really ex­isted much throughout the melodrama of the apocalypse 
instrument of this piece is, after all, no grand piano, no cello or violin, but the whirlpool corporation’s ultimate care ii washing machine. 
The concerto begins with the familiar knob turn of a laundry cycle’s start, followed by the sound of water sloshing inside of the machine, thick and absorbing as if heard from inside its bowels. it is not long, however, before we are swallowed by the industrial polyrhythms of the washer’s metal exoskeleton; backing drums here are provided by the eponymous organ of the appliance. The piece evolves from there. The atmosphere ebbs and flows between high-intensity tides of apocalyptic ar­rangements to steady bouts of almost-danceable idm and even occasional dips into drone-like, aquatic di­minuendos. The duo is able to explore this wide range of textures, settings, and moods by manipulating the ultimate care ii in a variety of ways, yet never using anything other than its own devices. what sounds like a squeaky horn-like instrument, for example, is in fact a wet finger skidding against the machine’s frame. in addition, matmos collects no shortage of unearthly sounds through ingenious variations to their recording techniques. microphones were placed in several un­orthodox locations on the ultimate care ii; sound was then fed back into the echoes of the washing machine’s tumbling core, a technique that recalls the methods prodigy saxophonist colin stetson employed in his ex­tended studies of the bass saxophone. 
indeed, it is the craftsmanship and depth of explora­tion in this piece that makes it most impressive. over the course of 38 minutes — about the length of a typical — a rick who goofs off, cracks jokes with daryl and sings along with his oldies tunes. it’s the kind of rick that would make the apocalypse a little more enjoyable. 
in this sequence, we also get our first look at a charac­ter who calls himself Jesus. paul “Jesus” monroe man­ages to escape and trick up rick and daryl several times throughout the episode and adds to the humor that’s been sorely lacking recently. he also brings with him the promise of “the next world,” both for rick and co. and for the show at large. if you’ve read the comics, you know that Jesus’ hints toward the next world are inevitably go­ing to lead us Jeffrey dean morgan’s negan character and the horrors associated with his arrival. 
The next world also involves increased diversity and complexity for the cast. Jesus is the first openly gay male in “The walking dead,” which is great both because it al­lows for a greater variety of storytelling and because of general representation concerns. 
in the final moments of this episode, michonne and rick finally end up together after a few seasons worth of sexual tension and chemistry. it’s a very fulfilling scene and a very different kind of twist for “The walking dead” that shows that this next world may not be so bad after all, at least until next week’s episode. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
wash cycle — matmos sounds desperate to get the most literal percussive bang for their buck. and they achieve it by and large. 
but something about ultimate care ii also speaks, appropriately, of mutual caring. Toward the end of the unlikely concerto, we are actually subjected to minutes of pure, unadulterated washing action. boring? brash? benevolent, i would argue. after whirlpool’s inadver­tently musical contraption is all but disassembled for an album’s worth of music, the segment functions as their show of reciprocity toward the machine to which they singly owe their product. it is a reverent affirma­tion of the washer’s inherent aesthetic value, and by extension of the value of all the other artifacts in our daily existence whose musical potentials similarly go unnoticed. To them, matmos seems to say: “we truly do care.” 
Contact Adrian Lore at asanch11@nd.edu 
“Ultimate Care II” 
Matmos 

Label: Thrill Jockey Tracks: N/A If you like: Aphex Twin, Fennesz, Venetian Snares 


LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


WANTED 

Need Tutor(s) high school biology & Algebra 
2. Tutoring may continue summer & beyond. Prefer our house,10-15 minutes from ND, but open to other locations. Contact Linda at lwaelchli@datacruz.com 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: prioritize, line up your goals and put together a workable plan that will enable you to achieve what’s important to you. eliminate stress by putting an end to the personal situations that are holding you back. a clear passage is your ticket to a better life. rid yourself of anything that is no longer good for your emotional, financial or physical well-being. your numbers are 2, 14, 20, 26, 31, 45, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay informed and avoid being put in an awkward position. know what you want and don’t deviate from your plan in order to accommodate someone else. you will end up in a good position if you negotiate on your own behalf. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): steer clear of anyone who is negative or constantly getting in your way. Focus on work and learning through your experiences. surround yourself with people who are proactive and have something unique to offer. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t leave anything to chance. put your best foot forward intellectually and physically. how you present what you have to offer will make a difference in the outcome of a competitive situation. honesty will count. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take matters into your own hands if you want to control the outcome of a domestic situation. don’t be afraid to take a different route if it will lead to improved relations. explore possibilities by using your imagination and creativity. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): set your sights on your goal and approach what you want with discipline and an unexpected twist. be progressive and you will attract interest from a most unusual and accommodating source. celebrate with someone you love. romance is featured. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take note of what everyone around you is doing and pick the best of everything in order to help formulate your own strategy. don’t let negativity or doubt hold you back. don’t let a partnership cost you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): keep your private affairs to yourself. stick close to home and make significant changes that will help cut your overhead and ease your financial stress. The changes you make will alleviate a personal problem you have with someone close to you. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The more unique and eccentric you are, the more interest you will receive from outside sources. make observations about the way others live, and incorporate what works into your own living arrangement. be true to what you want. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t make assumptions or take action without thinking. emotions will escalate if you aren’t honest about the way you feel or what you want. operate fairly and you can please everyone, including yourself. self-improvement should be a priority. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): search and you will find something you can use to your benefit. whether it has to do with money, health or an organization you want to do business with, you can come out on top if you use your resources wisely. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take your time and observe what everyone around you is doing. you don’t have to commit to anything until you are ready to follow through with your plans. put more time and effort into how you look and feel. put yourself first. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): emotional matters will rise to the surface, disrupting your plans if you aren’t quick to find a solution that will prevent setbacks or delays. make your move and protect your interests. be open, honest and fair, and you will win. 

Birthday Baby: you are creative, sensitive and unpredictable. you are dedicated and appreciative. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
“Associate with men of good quality if you es­teem your own reputation; for it is better to be alone than in bad company.” -George Washington 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Reinsdorf hurting more than helping 

Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
The chicago white sox signed free agent shortstop Jimmy rollins to a minor-league contract yesterday. This move made white sox fans like me ask a question we have been asking this franchise for a while now: why? 
with rollins’ signing, the sox are most likely not going to at­tempt to sign free agent shortstop ian desmond, considered to be one of the best free agents still available. 
later in the day, free-agent out­fielder dexter Fowler signed with the baltimore orioles. There was talk that Fowler might sign with the sox to become a part of their outfield, a position where they desperately need depth. 
but no. The sox signed a 37-year-old shortstop who is way past his prime to be a potential answer at shortstop while their outfield remains fragile. 
This comes after the white sox failed to sign free agent outfielders yoenis cespedes or Justin upton. The sox were expected to land at least one, and either player could have bolstered the sox’s roster substantially from both an of­fensive and defensive standpoint. They didn’t sign either. instead, they let upton go to the division rival Tigers and cespedes stay in new york, where he wasn’t ex­pected to re-sign. 
They also managed to some­how not fire manager robin ventura after last year’s disaster of a season, the third straight year the sox have suffered a losing record under ventura. The white sox hired ventura, a former sox player with no previous manage­rial experience, back in 2011 and have limped to a 297-351 total record the past four years under him. 
after this disastrous offseason, all white sox fans can only ask why. why is this franchise so content with mediocrity while the other baseball team in the city continues to make major strides to compete for a championship? 
These questions should be directed to Jerry reinsdorf. 
after all, he is the owner of the team and holds the power to make all baseball decisions. he holds the same capacity with the chicago bulls, a team which recently drew criticism for being inactive at last week’s nba trade deadline. last summer, the bulls fired head coach Tom Thibodeau and replaced him with former bulls player Fred hoiberg after a “lengthy” coaching search that lasted five days. The bulls have struggled under hoiberg, and the team is currently three games over .500 and clinging to a playoff spot. They have been criticized for their lack of discipline, urgency, and heart. 
The direction these franchises have taken in the past couple of years have led fans of both teams to ask the questions, “should reinsdorf still be in charge? does there need to be a change at the top for both organizations?” 
it would be hard to argue against those ideas. 
don’t get me wrong, reinsdorf is a legendary sports owner. he bought the white sox in 1981 and the bulls in 1985 and the two franchises have gone on to win a total of seven total league championships (six for the bulls, one for the white sox) under his control. reinsdorf is credited with acquiring key figures in the bulls’ legendary 90’s dynasty, like horace grant, scottie pippen, dennis rodman, bill cartwright, and hiring phil Jackson to coach michael Jordan and the rest of the team to six championships in an eight year span. he also helped build the 2005 chicago white sox team that won the world series, the franchise’s first championship in 88 years. 
but reinsdorf has also been criticized for being a “cheapskate” and preventing his teams from winning more championships. he is considered the person who broke up the ‘90s bulls dynasty. reinsdorf was close friends with bulls general manager Jerry krause, who feuded with bulls head coach phil Jackson. krause influenced reinsdorf to fire Jackson in 1998, even though the bulls looked poised to win another championship. The fir­ing has been seen as the reason why Jordan retired a second time and why many important play­ers left the team in the offseason. reinsdorf is also considered to be one of the main reasons why the 1994 mlb season ended in a labor stoppage, due to his un­willingness to negotiate a new labor-agreement. The white sox were in first-place in the division standings when the season was discontinued. 
reinsdorf is a legend in the chicago sports world, but his best days are behind him. his recent actions (or non-actions) and his unwillingness to change can be seen as reasons why he might not have what it takes to be a profes­sional sports owner anymore. who knows, one of these days someone close to him might try to convince him to retire, hand the franchises over to one of his kids, or sell the teams altogether. until then, bulls and white sox fans might be stuck watching a medio­cre product year in and year out. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NHL | canadiens 4, capiTals 3 
galchenyuk, condon power canadiens past hot capitals 
Associated Press 

washingTon — The washington capitals have been dominant for most of the season. lately, though, the eastern conference leaders have been playing from be­hind. and, against the montreal canadiens, they couldn’t pull off another comeback. 
alex galchenyuk scored two goals, mike condon made 33 saves and the canadiens topped the eastern conference-leading capitals 4-3 on wednesday night. 
The canadiens built a 3-0 lead and chased capitals goalie braden holtby in the second period before holding on as washington tallied two late goals. 
“we played the best team in the league in their build­ing,” canadiens coach michel Therrien said. “They’re really tough to play against, and the way that we came out gave us the confidence.” 
brendan gallagher and Tomas Fleischmann added goals for the canadiens, who had lost four of five, and two previous meetings with washington this season. 
Trailing 4-1, the capitals scored twice inside the fi­nal minutes, including andre burakovsky’s goal with 2:53 remaining. Jason chimera and dmitri orlov also scored for the president’s Trophy front-run­ners, who entered 17-1-1 over their previous 19 home games. 
alex ovechkin, the nhl leader with 39 goals, had one assist, but did not score for the first time in four games for washington. 
The capitals were 9-1-0 in their previous 10 games, while the canadiens were 3-14-1 in their last 18 on the road. 
galchenyuk’s first score meant the slow-starting capitals trailed for the sixth straight game. washington won four of the previous five. 
“we can’t come back every night,” capitals center nicklas backstrom said. “That’s not go­ing to happen. we have to play a better 60-minute game.” 
holtby, who finished with 15 saves on 18 shots, couldn’t add to his league-leading 38 wins. washington’s defense didn’t help the cause. 
montreal turned a poor clear from orlov into a 1-0 lead. galchenyuk intercepted the pass and then rammed home a rebound off dale weise’s shot. 
The deficit doubled with 2:13 left in the opening period on gallagher’s power-play goal in the third and final meeting against washington this season. 
another rebound off holtby led to montreal’s third goal less than two minutes into the sec­ond period and Fleischmann’s first since Jan. 23. 
“we wanted to make it as tough as we could on him,” gallagher said of holtby. “pretty much all our goals we had peo­ple around him.” 
seeking a spark, capitals coach barry Trotz sat holtby for philipp grubauer following the third goal. grubauer finished with 15 saves, including turning away gallagher’s penalty shot, but surrendered galchenyuk’s goal in the second period. 
washington mustered scant quality opportunities against condon until chimera scooped a loose puck past the sprawled goalie, making it 3-1 at 5:32 in the second. 
“we didn’t play sound enough hockey tonight,” Trotz said. “That was a really junky game for us.” 
washington leads second-place Florida by 17 points in the conference standings. 
“i don’t think we’re going to allow that to happen,” defense-man brooks orpik said of pos­sibly slowing down without an eminent threat behind them. “maybe i’m naive, maybe it’s creeping in a little bit. it’s one of those things where you have to stay focused. you have to make sure, especially down the stretch, that’s your best hockey. Take your foot off the gas, it’s tough to all of a sudden turn the switch back on for the playoff.” 

NBA | warriors 118, heaT 112 
Warriors pull out late  road win against Heat 
Associated Press 

miami — The league’s leading shot blocker was coming at him, and even that wasn’t enough to bother stephen curry. 
it was the biggest moment of the night, and the mvp delivered. 
curry connected on the go-ahead 3-pointer over the out­stretched arm of miami center hassan whiteside with 38 sec­onds left, and the golden state warriors beat the miami heat 118-112 on wednesday night in a game that featured 13 lead changes in the fourth quarter alone. 
“it was a huge test,” curry said. “on the road, any time you play against a playoff basketball team, it’s going to be a tough task.” 
curry finished with 42 points, and klay Thompson scored 15 consecutive points for golden state in the fourth on his way to a 33-point night. 
curry made a pair of free throws with 18.5 seconds left to get to the 40-point mark for the ninth time this season, and soon the warriors walked off a winner for the 51st time in 56 games this season. 
but miami more than made them earn it. 
“we had our opportunities,” heat coach erik spoelstra said. “our guys played their butts off. ... This is for competitors only. This is competition at its finest.” 
dwyane wade had a season-high 32 points and seven assists for the heat, who led by 12 early and went up 108-107 when wade made a pair of free throws with 
56.5 seconds left. 

on the next possession, whiteside blocked a 3-point try from draymond green — his Twitter nemesis, after they ex­changed words on the social me­dia platform last year — but the ball found its way to curry, who connected. 
“a great player made some great plays at the end,” wade said. “we did enough to win the ballgame, we just didn’t come out with it. if we can play the way we did tonight the rest of the season we will win most of those games.” 
whiteside had 21 points and 13 rebounds for miami, which got 16 points from luol deng and 15 from rookie Josh richardson. harrison barnes scored 11 and green finished with 10 points and 11 rebounds for the warriors. 
For a team that has had its re­silience tested mightily lately — first the loss of all-star forward chris bosh to a blood clot in his leg, presumably for the rest of the season, and now backup point guard beno udrih to season-end­ing foot surgery — the heat came out flying. They held golden state to 35 percent shooting in the first quarter, leading by as many as 12 in the early going. 
curry kept the warriors in it: he was 6 for 11 in the opening quarter, including a 40-footer to end the period. his teammates were just 2 for 12 in the opening 12 minutes. 



BASEBALL 

irish still looking to get in gear 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
notre dame travels south still looking to shake off its early season rust when it hosts the ninth-annual alamo irish classic in san antonio. 
The irish (1-2) dropped the final two games of a three-game series to open their season against santa clara last weekend, and they re­turn to san antonio and nelson wolff stadium this weekend looking to build early season momentum in friendly confines away from the snow-bound Frank eck stadium. 
“we did have some success [at the alamo irish classic] last year, and hopefully we’re looking forward to a similar kind of success there this year,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “it should be good, we’re looking forward to it. ” 
notre dame is 18-12-1 in its previous eight alamo irish classics, and since the event’s inaugural week­end in 2008, the irish have won at least two contests in seven of the eight years. notre dame went a perfect 4-0 at the tournament last season, putting together wins over incarnate word, bradley, Texas southern and gonzaga. 
all four teams return to san antonio this weekend for the 2016 edition. 
last Friday, irish juniors, right-hander ryan smoyer and left-hander scott Tully, combined with senior right-hander david hearne to blank the broncos, 5-0, on opening day while junior second baseman cavan biggio recorded the pro­gram’s first inside-the-park home run since david mills in 2008. 
as a team, however, notre dame combined for just five hits during Friday’s contest, and was able to take advan­tage of four santa clara er­rors to plate three unearned runs in the contest. 
The lackluster offensive output came back to bite the irish on saturday and sunday. although in both games notre dame put up more hits than it did Friday 
—
 with seven hits each game 

—
 the irish scored just two 


runs combined, which aoki said was due to his team’s in­ability to string hits togeth­er with runners in scoring position. 
moving forward, aoki said the irish need to put last weekend behind them and continue moving forward this weekend and through­out the rest of the early sea­son schedule. 
aoki also highlighted the need for better defensive play. notre dame fielded one of the top defenses in the country last season and led the ncaa in double plays turned with 75. however, costly errors by sophomore left-hander starter sean guenther and biggio in the bottom of the first inning led to a pair of unearned runs. The runs proved to be im­portant as the irish fell 4-2. 
aoki said while he was disappointed in the errors, he knows it’s early in the season. 
“i think the big thing for us is just going out there and playing the way that we’re capable of playing, playing at as high of a level as we can and worrying about things that we can control, that we can do,” aoki said. 
asked what his team’s ap­proach will be this weekend as it prepares for the alamo irish classic, aoki said he is not worried about the teams notre dame is set to face and wants to concentrate on what his team can control. 
“each individual day, ob­viously, you get different scouting reports and you do some different things, but in general i think we’re just trying to prepare, from a practice standpoint, of try­ing to get a little better every day and be ready to go on [Friday],” aoki said. 
notre dame kicks off the alamo irish classic against bradley and Texas southern on Friday at 12:30 p.m. and 
3:30 p.m., respectively, and then takes the field against incarnate word on saturday at 12:30 p.m. The irish finish out their tournament against gonzaga at noon sunday af­ternoon. The games will be played at nelson wolff stadium in san antonio. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame seeks more consistency on Florida trip 

By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 

For the third straight weekend, no. 23 notre dame will be on the road, this time heading to Florida to compete in the diamond 9 citrus classic. 
after traveling to california and arizona the last two weekends, the irish (7-3) will now travel in the other direction when they begin the first of two consecutive weekends in Florida. irish head coach deanna gumpf said her team has dealt well with the large amount of traveling it has done. 
“There’s lots of pros and cons to travel,” gumpf said. “it is tiring on the girls, but, conversely, they’ve never had it any other way. This is what we do. They’ve never had a spring without this kind of schedule, and they know how to handle it. i think they do a great job of keeping things in perspec­tive and really focusing on just the process.” 
after going 4-1 last week­
end,  the  irish  will  play  
another five  games  this  
weekend.  on  Friday,  the  

irish will play east carolina and no. 22 central Florida. Then, on saturday, the team will battle north Florida and bryant before finish­ing the weekend with a game against penn state on sunday. 
however, this weekend is less about outcomes and more about developing more consistency for the irish, gumpf said. 
“This whole weekend is just about keeping our soft­ball super consistent and re­ally focusing on the things we’re doing well and mak­ing sure we’re getting bet­ter at the areas we need to improve upon,” gumpf said. “i’m not focusing so much on the outcomes right now. i’m focusing on how we’re playing and really making sure we’re staying in the right direction.” 
particularly, gumpf said she wants to see improve­ment from the team’s pitch­ing staff. she said both it and the offense have been impressive thus far, but the staff needs to develop the aggressive approach and consistency that the offense has, she added. 
“it starts in the circle,” gumpf said. “our pitchers at times have done an amazing job keeping us in all of the ball games. i’m really proud of the fact that they’ve fig­ured things out. i think we can continue to get better in the circle and really attack the hitters all seven innings and [with] all five of our pitchers. i’m looking for re­ally consistent pitching and attacking the zone there.” 
To start the season, the irish offense is batting .347 and averaging more than seven runs per game. The pitching staff, however, does not have the numbers to match, as only junior rachel nasland has an earned-run average below 3.80. despite what the numbers may sug­gest, gumpf said she has been happy with the prog­ress the staff has made. in particular, she has been ex­tremely impressed with the performance of senior allie rhodes. 
“Quite frankly, allie has been amazing,” gumpf said. “if you look at her numbers, you don’t see how she has really been our mainstay. allie’s probably the one that i’m the most proud of, and quite frankly, she’s our go­to [pitcher]. she’s the girl that we’ve been really going to to keep us in ball games.” 
in general, gumpf said she expects the staff to de­velop the consistency and strength that the offense has shown as the season goes on. 
“The more outings they get, the better they get,” gumpf said. “They just need to keep getting outings, and [it’s] our goal to continue to get them innings. and they need to keep attacking the zone.” 
notre dame will play its first game of the diamond 9 citrus classic against east carolina on Friday at 1:15 p.m. at espn wide world of sports complex in kissimmee, Florida. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
more goals from lubowicki and then one each from fresh­man attack ryder garnsey and sophomore midfielder brendan collins. 
“That can be a real strength for us — that we have a lot of people who can make plays for us,” corrigan said. 
notre dame came out much slower in the second half. after a garnsey goal to extend the lead to 9-3 just over three minutes into the third quarter, the irish would not score again until six min­utes left in the game. much of that stretch was without last year’s second leading goal-scorer in sophomore at­tackman mikey wynne, who corrigan pulled after wynne took an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty. 
“[The second half] was a factor of us losing our focus and just not doing the things we needed to do,” corrigan said. “… we thought it was going to be easy, and as a re­sult we made it harder [for us].” 
after a mini-bellarmine run of two goals in the third quarter to cut the lead to 9-5, collins broke the drought at 

6:00. each team would add one more tally before all was said and done, notre dame’s being lubowicki’s fourth. 
notre dame now turns its attention to 0-2 detroit, a team that saw its wednesday night tilt against michigan postponed due to weather. 
after he only scored three goals last season, the Titans are led by senior midfielder andy hebden, who has scored five goals this year. They also return their top attack in sophomore mark anstead, who was second on the team with 21 goals last season while adding 17 assists. 
The last time the two teams played was the 2013 ncaa championship first-round, where the irish outlasted the Titans 9-7. corrigan said he has not dug deep into what detroit brings to the table, but he remembers their style from a few years ago. 
notre dame will face detroit on saturday at 2 p.m. at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | The observer 


FENCING | acc championships 
ND readies to host ACC championships at Castelan 

By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame will compete in the acc championships this weekend, where they look to continue its regular season success. 
The irish last took the strip three weeks ago, when the second-ranked men’s and women’s squad finished their regular season at the duke duals. The women capped-off an undefeated regular season, while the men suffered just their sec­ond loss of the season. 
This weekend, however, the irish will begin postsea­son play when they host the acc championships. The tournament will be the first conference championship notre dame has hosted since joining the acc. 
irish head coach gia kvaratskhelia said hosting the event is an honor and an opportunity for the program. 
“it’s a huge thing for us as a program, for the ath­letic department and the university,” kvaratskhelia said. “This will be the first time an acc champion­ship will be hosted by notre dame, and we’ve been plan­ning this for two years. we want to put on an event worthy of the conference, the competitors, and notre dame. we’re hoping that we have a great crowd this weekend, so we can show our friends and fans what we can do. 
“our guests would love nothing better than to beat us on our home floor; we’d like nothing better than to win right here.” 
The irish will play host to boston college, duke and north carolina this weekend. This season, both the men and women have squared off against the blue devils and Tar heels. at the duke duals, the men defeated the ninth-ranked blue devils 16-11, while cruising to a 25-2 win over the Tar heels. similarly, the women topped duke and north carolina by scores of 17-10 and 24-3, respec­tively. neither the men nor the women have competed against the eagles. 
kvaratskhelia said a suc­cessful showing at the con­ference championship has been a goal for the irish all season, especially as a part of the journey towards a na­tional championship. 
“it’s the first step to­ward the ultimate goal — the ncaa championship,” kvaratskhelia said. “That said, winning an acc cham­pionship is very important to us.” 
The acc championships will be similar to the dual meets the irish competed in this season in some ways, and it will also serve as good preparation for the ncaa championships for each indi­vidual fencer, kvaratskhelia said. 
“The individual champi­onships are similar to the ncaas, [as they are] a lot of bouts in a short time,” kvaratskhelia said. “That will be useful experience. 
“The team event is simi­lar to the dual meets we’ve fenced all year, so i expect us to bring everything to bear.” 
This past week, both the male and female acc Fencer of the week honors were awarded to members of the irish squad. sophomore foilist virgile collineau and freshman sabreuse Tara hassett were the second and third fencers to win the award this season for the irish. while the each fenc­er is starting to peak at the right time, they will need to maintain that level of per­formance if they want to succeed in the postseason, kvaratskhelia said. 
“we will need everyone to perform well,” kvaratskhelia said. “it’s the only way we’ll win this weekend, and at the ncaa [championships].” 
The irish will take the strip in the acc championships 
starting  saturday  at  the  
castellan  Family  Fencing  
center.  

Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Track 
conTinued From page 16 
… we’re trying to win the team title.” 
To win the acc indoor title in the women’s competition, Turner said the team needs strong performances all the way down the roster. 
“obviously our superstar all-american athletes, [se­nior margaret] bamgbose and molly seidel, they’re going to be asked to carry a big load in two individual events,” Turner said. “[senior danielle] aragon needs to have a good meet. … she’s peaking at the right time, and we think she’s definitely someone who should be in the top three in the mile for us. … we think [graduate student carly loeffel] can compete and contend for that pentathlon title. … 
“it’s going to take a total team effort: we’re going to need ev­ery single point we can get.” 
with all-americans like bamgbose and seidel, Turner said he does not plan to make any last-minute adjustments to their winning formulas. For younger runners, like fresh­man anna rohrer however, Turner said he just has to re­mind them they’re ready to be on the big stage. 
“molly and margaret have been there before, they know what to do, so i really don’t have to tell them much,” Turner said. “Freshman like anna rohrer, even though she had an outstanding cross country year … she hasn’t been on a cham­pionship track team. i talked to her yesterday and i said, ‘you have the 3,000[-meter run], you have the 5,000[-meter run], just do what you’ve been doing all season long. run as hard as you can and try to go for the win.’ it hasn’t been so much me telling them extra things, just ‘hey, continue to do what you’re doing.’” 
The men’s team finished 12th out of 15 teams at last year’s indoor conference meet, and Turner said though the men’s squad lacks the depth to com­pete for a conference cham­pionship, he feels the team is ready to make a statement. 
“For the men, we’re also com­ing along at the right time. we know we don’t have the depth on the men’s side to be any­where in the top three team-wise, but for the men, our goal is if we can just break into the top half of the conference.” 
Turner singled out a couple strong individual performanc­es the team will need to rely on to begin climbing up the standings. 
“i’m looking for [junior pole-vaulter] nate richartz to have a good performance,” Turner said. “he’s really going to have his hands full in that pole-vault. … it will be very tough for him to pull off that title, but he definitely can do it. … [Junior thrower] anthony shivers for us in the weight [throw]. he broke our school record for us last week so we can just ride that high and we think he can get into the top three.” 


in order for the women to take home the title, Turner said the irish will face strong competition from a number of teams. 
“clemson is definitely the [favorite] on the women’s side,” Turner said. “on paper, they should win probably by about 15 points. we’ll see what happens. i think ourselves, clemson and miami, we’re go­ing to split up some of those sprint points. virginia has a strong team, so does north carolina.” 
as the team prepares to be­gin competition on Thursday, Turner said the key for the team is mental toughness and be­lieves his squad is in the right place mentally. 
“in this sport, there’s not a lot that separates that person who’s a champion from that person who’s fifth or sixth,’ Turner said. “but if you’re men­tally strong, that can carry you over the top, and my team is exactly where we need to be as a whole. we’re going to take roughly about 55 athletes to the meet and i know all 55 are not going to make the finals and score and be champions. but all those 55 are mentally ready to go, and that’s going to help us so much [this] week at the acc meet.” 
The acc championships start Thursday and run through saturday in boston. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore forward Brianna Turner sizes up a defender in Notre Dame’s 90-69 win over Miami on Feb. 14 at Purcell Pavilion. 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
guaranteed at least a share of the acc regular season title with louisville, and because of their victory at louisville earlier this month, they would also clinch the number one seed for the conference tour­nament. The cardinals face miami (Fla.) tonight, and the irish have the opportunity to claim the regular season title outright if they win and the louisville loses. notre dame has won both the regular sea­son title and the conference tournament as the number one seed in each of its two previous years in the acc. 
“i think that it was our goal at the beginning of the year, so we’re very focused on it. it’s an important goal,” mcgraw said. 
mcgraw added that, consid­ering the schedule her team has had to face, she is im­pressed the irish now have a chance to take the regular sea­son title with a game to spare. 
“when i looked at the acc schedule, and when i looked at the acc preseason rankings, and i saw louisville, Florida state and duke at two, three and four, knowing that we would have to go on the road to play all those teams, i knew we had a tough schedule,” mcgraw said. “i thought it was the toughest schedule of any­one, and i was really concerned about February. i thought February was going to be really difficult for us. Then when you throw in Tennessee in January, and the schedule just looked really really hard, and it’s num­ber one rpi, so it definitely was the toughest, that’s not just me. 

“but i don’t think i could have looked and thought we’d be where we are right now. i think we’re ahead of schedule. we’ve overachieved to get here, and i think we’ve really, really played well and kept finding ways to overachieve on days where things weren’t really go­ing our way. so this is a team that’s handled adversity really really well.” 
sophomore forward kathryn westbeld, who injured her an­kle against Florida state, will not be available for the irish against the Tigers. 
The game will begin at 7 p.m. at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2016 | The observer 



M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
auguste scored a team-high 18 points and pulled in 12 re­bounds. auguste recorded his 15th double-double of the sea­son, second in the acc. 
“it definitely was a tough win on the road today,” auguste said. “but we executed down the stretch when it counted. demetrius had great leader­ship and stepped up in the second half. we had a great second half. we had to rely on the defense, and that’s what we did and it helped us get a big-time win on the road. now we’re just looking forward to going down to Tallahassee and picking up another one.” 
irish head coach mike brey praised auguste’s perfor­mance. he said he believes the senior captain is picking up momentum late in the season, similar to his performance late last year during notre dame’s run to the elite eight. 
“i think [auguste is] play­ing as good as or better than any big guy in the league,” brey said. “we were talking as a staff that this was about the time last year where he started to kick it to a new lev­el. Fabulous tonight stepping up. eight for eight from the foul line. getting every big re­bound. i think he’s one of the best big guys in the country, and he’s playing his way into the nba as well.” 
despite auguste’s strong play in the second half, wake Forest kept it close late in the fourth quarter, cutting a 10-point irish lead down to four after a layup by collins. however, notre dame’s smothering defense forced the demon deacons to miss seven of their final nine shots. wake Forest went 11-of-35 from the field in both halves. 
collins, who made his first career start, scored a team-high 16 points and pulled down four of wake Forest’s 18 offen­sive rebounds. The team also received 13 more points from its bench than notre dame, but the demon deacons only converted just 10 of their 17 free throw attempts in the sec­ond half, while the irish, after not attempting a single free throw in the first half, hit 17 in the second. 
“i’m really proud of our group,” brey said. “we had to defend to win tonight. Their field goal percentage was 31, and we weren’t in the best of offensive rhythm, but of course we made big shots and, man, did we hit big free throws when we had to.” 
brey said he was particularly impressed with an irish de­fensive effort that held wake Forest to under 60 points. notre dame is ranked 135th in scoring defense, but brey said he was pleased with the way the defense held its own wednesday night. 
“i’m just so pleased with our defense,” brey said. “To have them to hold [wake Forest] to 58 points and 31 percent, that was the story. it’s great to have 10 league wins, and it’s great to know you’re going to the ncaa tournament.” 
notre dame finishes its road trip on saturday as the team travels to Tallahassee, Florida, to take on Florida state at 4 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 69, wake ForesT 58 
Irish survive cold first half to overrun Demon Deacons 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
in the second contest of its three-game road trip, notre dame defeated wake Forest, 69-58, on wednesday night, to avoid losing two straight games for the first time in nearly two years. 
similar to many of their re­cent games, the irish (18-9, 10-5 acc) played strikingly different halves. in the first 20 minutes of the game, notre dame con­verted just 38.2 percent of their field goal attempts. The demon deacons (11-17, 2-14) held junior guard demetrius Jackson com­pletely off the scoreboard in the first half, but junior guard steve vasturia carried the load for the irish, scoring eight points on strong drives to the basket. 
in the second half, Jackson and senior forward Zach auguste led the charge, com­bining for 27 of the 41 points scored in the second half for the irish. despite tough interior de­fense from freshman forwards doral moore and John collins, 
see m bball PAGE 15 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

opposing paths lead nd, clemson 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame has a chance to clinch the top seed in the acc tournament for the third con­secutive year when the irish host clemson tonight. 
The game pits the conference-leading irish (26-1, 14-0), current­ly undefeated in the acc, against the Tigers (4-23, 0-14), who are winless in conference play. in fact, since early January 2015, when notre dame lost to miami and clemson defeated virginia Tech in overtime, the irish have not lost to any acc opponents, while the Tigers have not beaten any. including the postseason, notre dame’s acc winning streak stands at 31 games and clemson’s acc losing streak at 30. 
after facing three ranked teams — no. 10 louisville, no. 17 miami and no. 12 Florida state 
— in their last four games, the irish will certainly have an easier matchup against a team dwelling at the bottom of the conference. irish head coach muffet mcgraw, however, said she is confident her team will remain focused against a weaker opponent. 
“we’ve got our eye on the title, and that’s really important to us,” mcgraw said. “so we know we can’t let up, we’ve got to be ready, and we’ve got pretty high goals. This is a really important game for us.” 
with the irish entering the game as heavy favorites, mcgraw said it will be important to dic­tate the tempo and not allow the Tigers to slow the game down. 
“Two years ago, they really slowed us down,” mcgraw said. “and they’re probably going to run their stuff on offense a little more, so we’ve got to be ready for that and we’ve got to set the tem­po. That’s going to be a goal.” 
mcgraw also said the athleti­cism of the Tigers could make things difficult for her team. 
“They’re really athletic, and they really go to the basket well,” mcgraw said. “we’ve had trouble containing the ball this year, and that’s going to be a challenge for us because they’re really fast and we need to be able to do a better job in our man-to-man with con­taining the ball.” 
with a win, the irish would be 
see w bball PAGE 15 

MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 11, bellarmine 6 
shorthanded nd coasts to victory 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no matt kavanagh, no problem. 
no. 1 notre dame was with­out arguably its best player wednesday night but still took care of business against bellarmine, besting the knights 11-6 at loftus sports center. 
irish head coach kevin corrigan said the senior at­tack’s absence was injury related and that he will be re­evaluated before a decision is made regarding his availability for saturday’s home game. 
“it’s not something that’s go­ing to be all season long but we don’t want it to be something that drags on,” corrigan said. “if he’s not ready 100 percent we won’t put him in there.” 
without kavanagh, notre dame (2-0) turned to senior at­tack eddy lubowicki. making just his second career start, lubowicki led the irish with four goals, including one that opened the scoring 3:20 into the first quarter. 
despite not having the spot­light on him and with only nine collegiate goals to his name, lubowicki said it did not feel out of the ordinary to have a breakthrough game. 
“it’s funny, on our team we’re all playing as hard as we can every day,” lubowicki said. “it feels like i’m part of the team all year long, all four years, be­cause you’re competing every day with your best friends, your friends that are all-americans. you’re practicing against them. so [today felt normal].” 
lubowicki’s opening tally was followed by goals from two midfielders — junior ben pridemore and senior bobby gray — which put notre dame up 3-0 less than seven minutes in. 
bellarmine (1-2) finally got on the board with a brian wall goal with 2:23 to play in the first quarter. 
notre dame did not look back from there, jumping out to an 8-3 lead by halftime with two 
see m lacrosse PAGE 13  
TRACK & FIELD 

Squad hitting stride heading into ACC championships 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame will compete in the indoor acc championships this week in boston as the irish seek to establish themselves at the top of the acc, especially on the women’s side. 
last year, the women’s team placed third in the confer­ence behind senior defending 10,000-meter national cham­pion molly seidel’s meet mvp performance. irish head coach alan Turner said he feels the women’s team is ready for the championship meet after a sol­id showing at the alex wilson invitational last week. 
“The mood [of the team] has been probably the best it’s been all season long,” Turner said. “we’re where we need to be right now. … basically every­one is healthy and rested and running well. we’re pretty con­fident we should have a pretty good showing at the acc cham­pionships on the women’s side. 
see Track PAGE 14 








