The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 70 | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Cushwa Center announces research grant 
Program for visiting scholars aims to encourage study of Fr. Hesburgh’s life, writings in ND archives 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
The cushwa center for the study of american catholicism recently launched the rev. Theodore m. hesburgh, c.s.c, research Travel grant program, a grant open to anyone in any academic discipline with the goal of supporting research that promotes the legacy of Father hesburgh. 
kathleen sprows cummings, director of the cushwa center, said the grant aims to allow re­searchers not only to incorporate Father hesburgh’s legacy in their studies, but also to learn more about notre dame. 
“[recipients] can be research­ers looking on a variety of top­ics,” cummings said. “you don’t have to write on the history of notre dame or catholicism, or catholic higher education. Father hesburgh was involved in much more aspects of the 20th 




Pope appoints CSC priest 
mercy officially proclaimed to rome to meet with pope 

Observer Staff Report 

in his letter, misericordiae Francis and to be commis-Fr. Joseph corpora will vultus (The Face of mercy), sioned on ash wednesday be one of 800 priests se-last year,” the release stat-(Feb. 10) in a celebration at 
lected by pope Francis to st. peter’s basilica.” 


professors use Fitbits in study 
relationship between so-


By AIDAN LEWIS 
cial networks and health. 
news writer 
be a missionary of 
mercy, 
the university announced 
in a press release Thursday 
morning. 
“The missionaries are 
some 800 priests worldwide 
selected by the pope to be 
special confessors and ‘liv-

corpora serves as the di­
notre dame sociologists 
rector of university-school 
Fitbits, the activity track-david hachen and omar 
partnerships for notre 
ing wristbands, have be-lizardo, in conjunction 
dame’s alliance for catholic 
come a popular identifying with university computer 
education (ace) and a 
feature of notre dame scientists aaron striegel 
priest-in residence in dillon  freshmen this year. Five  and christian poellabauer,  
hall as well as the a campus  hundred  Fitbit-wearing  are conducting the study.  
ministry chaplain to latino  freshmen are participating  hachen said the national  


ing signs’ of god’s forgive-ed. “Father corpora will 
in a study called nethealth, 

ness during the holy year of be among those traveling see corpora PAGE 3 
which aims to explore the see FiTbiT PAGE 4 


Drones, hoverboards banned on SMC campus 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
Following many college and universities across america, the saint mary’s administration made the decision to add drones and electronic self-balancing skateboards known as “hov­erboards” to the list of pro­hibited items on campus. 
a drone is a remote-con­trolled, pilotless aircraft that has become commer­cialized in recent years which can be used for many purposes ranging from photography to amazon deliveries. 
karen Johnson, the vice president of student affairs, said she led a group of peo­ple on campus who made the decision in order to protect student safety. 
“The drone issue is that we are right on the take-off and landing pattern of the [south bend] airport,” Johnson said. “The fire issue [with ‘hover­boards’] is a big concern. we did not want an item in the residence hall or in a build­ing that could catch on fire when nobody was around to see it happen.” 
assistant vice president for student affairs Janielle Tchakerian said the Federal aviation administration (Faa) mandates the rules re­garding the drones. 
“Faa prohibits drone operators to stay out of airport flight paths and re­stricted airspace areas, and obey any Faa Temporary Flight restrictions (TFrs),” Tchakerian said. “since saint mary’s college is in the flight path to the south bend airport, we wanted to inform our students that for the safety of the manned aircrafts flying above our campus that drones are prohibited.” 
see drones PAGE 3 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News Sports 

margaret hynds Zach klonsinski nicole caratas alex carson martha reilly maureen schweninger 
Graphics Scene 

Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

michael yu Tabitha ricketts 


Corrections 

in the Jan. 15 edition of The observer, the story “administration announces dorm overhaul” incorrectly attributed a quote to karen kennedy. The quote should have been attributed to associate vice president for residential life heather rakoczy russell. The observer regrets this error. 
Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would you buy first if you won the lottery? 

Mimi Chen 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“sports car for my mom.” 
Elaine Smith 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“paying off tuition.” 
Marc Parzianello 
sophomore 
stanford hall 
“pay the company doing campus crossroads to stop.” 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Erin Bradford 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
“pay Zac efron to hang out with me for a day.” 
Kaela Crowley 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east 
“i’d invest it.” 
Laura Syers 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east 
“i’d give it to my mom.” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Friday 
Lecture: “Mobile Shakespeare” 
Hesburgh Library 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Part of the Folio Fridays lecture series. 
Hockey vs. Merrimack 
Compton Family Ice Arena 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. ND plays the Warriors. 
Saturday 
Annual Bride Expo 
Joyce Center 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Caterers, photographers and more will be present. 
Men’s Tennis vs. Michigan State 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 12 p.m.-2 p.m. The Irish take on the Spartans. 
Sunday 
DeCicco Duals 
Joyce Center All day Notre Dame hosts annual fencing tournament. 
La Misa en Espaol 
Dillon Hall 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. All are welcome to this weekly Mass celebrated in Spanish. 
Monday 
Women’s Basketball vs. Tennessee 
Purcell Pavilion 7 p.m.-9 p.m. The Irish take on the Lady Vols. 
“Black Lives Matter” 
DeBartolo Hall 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Movememnt co-founders speak on race relations. 
Tuesday 
Workshop: “Getting Started in Research” 
Brownson Hall 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Learn how to start a research project. 
Women’s Tennis vs. Western Micigan 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 6 p.m.-8 p.m. The Irish take on the Broncos. 
Campus Ministry to host second annual spring break ‘Nun Run’ 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news wrtier 
young women considering the voca­tion of religious life will have an opportu­nity this spring break to travel to various religious communities for thoughtful reflection. 
“The nun run is an opportunity for young women who are discerning a call to religious life to actually go and visit various different religious communities to see what their life is like,” sr. maria gemma salyer, who deals with women’s vocations for campus ministry, said. 
sponsored by campus ministry, the nun run allows women to visit religious communities near chicago, nashville and st. louis to learn more about life as a woman religious. 
“This trip was inspired by some of the students who expressed an interest in visiting some communities which oth­erwise they would not have the opportu­nity to visit,” salyer said. 
after experiencing great success in the trip’s first year, salyer said she is looking forward to the second annual trip. 
“last year was our first year for the nun run — we went out east to new york and connecticut,” she said. “This year i chose a different route to expose the young women to different communities, and many young women are specifically interested in communities which are lo­cated in these areas.” 
according to salyer, the opportu­nity has encouraged women to strongly consider and even join these religious communities. 
“our nun run last year was a great success. one of the young women will be entering a community this fall, while i know of a few others who are seriously considering entering other communi­ties. i really look forward to introducing people to religious life,” she said. “it is also a great opportunity to get to know each other and share one another’s journey.” 
salyer, who is originally from ohio, said she looks forward visiting a wide va­riety of places in this year’s trip. 
“we’ll be going to sisters of st. Francis of perpetual adoration, dominican sisters of mary mother of the eucharist, sisters of st. Joseph the worker, passionist nuns, dominican sisters of st. cecilia, carmelite monastery of st. Joseph, missionaries of charity, holy spirit nuns, sisters of st. Francis of the martyr st. george and the Franciscans of the eucharist of chicago, just to name a few,” salyer said. 
although she is the assistant director of vocations for the sisters of saint Francis of perpetual adoration in mishawaka, salyer encourages anyone who is even slightly interested in the vocation to go on the trip to learn more about different religious groups. 
“even if someone does not know if they are discerning a religious vocation or not, this is an awesome opportunity to grow in your faith and to make some good friendships which will last over the years,” she said. “The beauty of a nun run is that you really get exposed to all different types of religious life, which will help when it comes time to make a decision.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | The observer 


Grants 
conTinued From page 1 
for more student exposure to the university archives. 
“in some ways i think the ar­chives are better known out­side notre dame than within notre dame,” cummings said. “if [students] come once they might see how wonder­ful the archives are and they might come back.” 
kimberly sammons, se­nior and resident assistant in breen-phillips hall, visited the archives at her rector’s request to find old pictures of the dorm. sammons said she became engrossed in the history in the archives and believes this grant will help 

“I think Notre Dame is so steeped in tradition that the archives give you a tangible way to be actively involed with the University.” 
Kimberly Sammons 
senior 

students experience what she thinks is an under appreciated 
university resource. 
“i think notre dame is so steeped in tradition that the archives give you a tan­gible way to be actively in­volved with the university,” sammons said. “Father Ted just did so many things for notre dame … and outside the university that i’m sure his papers and his notes … probably rivals stuff that would be in a national mu­seum. so it’ll give students a good opportunity to utilize his life’s work to help notre dame.” 
some of the papers at the archives that pertain to Father hesburgh in­cludes subjects such as his humanitarian work, higher education administration, human rights, catholicism and more. 
“i think this is a wonder­ful opportunity, and i think Father hesburgh brought to­gether so many aspects of the world during his lifetime that this is a way for him, after his death, through his papers, to connect different fields of in­quiry,” cummings said. 
The deadline for the first round of applications is april 1 and applications must be submitted to cushwa@ nd.edu. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
Corpora 
conTinued From page 1 
students on campus. he said in the release that he is “very excited, grateful and hum­bled by the holy Father’s invitation. 
“and i hope everyone at notre dame will pray for me that i might do some good in spreading the mercy of god by being a person of mercy and compassion. i know something of god’s mercy because my deepest self-definition is that i am  sin­ner whose sins are forgiven. god has been so merciful to me.” 
Drones 
conTinued From page 1 
Though the fire concerns with “hoverboards” and the airport regulations re­garding drones have not been an issue on campus, Johnson said the adminis­tration is acting proactively on the matter. saint mary’s students received an email outlining the new prohibi­tions before leaving campus for winter break. 
“when ‘hoverboards’ be­come more safe or they solve the problems with the batteries, we may per­mit them,” Johnson said. “we have skateboards all over campus now, bicycles, skates, all that.” 

Johnson said there is no set procedure for cases in which students are found with these items, but she would ask the student to take the item home as soon as pos­sible or the college would confiscate the item and put it in a safe place until the student can take it home. 
Tchakerian said the de­cision to prohibit the items ultimately ensures the safety of everyone on campus. 
“[The rules] benefit the entire saint mary’s com­munity because, by imple­menting these two policies, we are putting the safety of our community members — both on campus and those who fly above us — safer.” 
a comprehensive list of items prohibited on cam­pus can be found on the college’s website. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Fitbit 
conTinued From page 1 
institute of health is funding the study through a $3 million grant. 
“The national institute of 
“I can see my friends on Fitbit and how many steps they have, and so I always want to have more steps than them. It’s a way to compete in a friendly manner.” 
Brian Quigley 
freshman 
health is very interested in the social conditions that in­fluence peoples’ behaviors, like sleep, diet and activity,” hachen said. 
according to the nethealth website, the Fitbit devices will be used to track each student’s sleep and fitness, while a mon­itoring app on their smart­phones will record social activity. The study therefore attempts to find a connection between social activity and health, one already seen by freshman brian Quigley, who is participating in the study. 
“i can see my friends on Fitbit and how many steps they have, and so i always want to have more steps than them,” Quigley said. “it’s a way to compete in a friendly manner.” 
hachen said he believes “our patterns and health related behaviors are amplified by the people we hang out with.” The challenge, though, he said, will be determining the direc­tion of the causality between friendship and health. 
“The biggest puzzle is we believe we are affected in our behaviors, attitudes, and taste by who we hang out with,” hachen said. “… it’s also the case that we tend to choose as our friends people that are similar to us, so we’re trying to disentangle whether your net­works are influencing you, or you select the networks to be like you.” 
in looking to solve that puz­zle, striegel said one of the major questions in this study is, “do you conform to the group, or do you change the group?” 
hachen said the researchers plan to note changes in each student’s social groups over time, which is made possible by the continuous data col­lection from the Fitbits and smartphones. 
“people’s networks are much more fluid than most social scientists have ever thought,” hachen said. “so we want to look at how people’s networks change, because if i’m not healthy and i hang out with someone who is healthy, i could become more healthy, or i could stop hanging out with them. i could change my network.” 
hachen also said the study’s use of Fitbits and smartphones will make it more accurate than similar past studies, which usually rely only on surveys for information. 
“on surveys, you may not tell the truth, you may not remember or recall your social networks. … by this method, we get continuous, reliable data that’s probably better than the self-reports that come from surveys.” 
in addition, striegel said the study can be used to “improve the health of the network,” since the researchers receive data on how many times peo­ple try and fail to connect to the network in different lo­cations on campus, thus al­lowing them to identify the network’s weaker points. 
hachen said in the next few months the study will be expanded to include about 400 more students — without Fitbits — who, through smart­phones and surveys, will fur­ther contribute to the data collection. Further, hachen said in the future he hopes to perform the same study at dif­ferent universities and with different age groups. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 






JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 


The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

unwillingly unplugged 
Greg Hadley 
editor in chief 

This past wednesday, in this very space, my colleague miko malabute argued we should put down our smartphones, stop watching netflix and try to reconnect with each other. 
it was a very good argument, one i certain­ly agree with, albeit have trouble actually following through on. but the main server of The observer was already way ahead of miko in helping our staff fulfill that goal. on Tuesday morning, the server crashed completely. what that means, essentially, is that almost all the files, templates, presets and graphics we typically use to design and layout the paper were gone. we were un­plugged, and not by choice. 
Thankfully, we were still able to put out a paper the next morning, one that included miko’s column. The process of production was more than a little hectic, manic and frenzied, and it made for a long night, but it did reinforce two ideas i have come to be­lieve in over the past year or so. 
First, it is hugely important that The observer remains a daily newspaper. i real­ize there are many members of the notre dame and saint mary’s community who do not read this paper and would not realize if it ceased to be printed on a daily basis. i know that at many other, larger universities, there are no more daily student newspapers, either because of staffing issues, financial difficul­ty or the sheer amount of time it takes to put out a newspaper five times per week. 
all the same, i am convinced that simply by being available to students, faculty, staff, administrators and alumni each day, in the dining halls, in class buildings and else­where on campus, The observer remains an integral part of campus culture. 
From the passionate letters we receive in the viewpoint section, to the issues that affect daily life in news, to the interhall football championship coverage in sports and stories about the local south bend area in scene, The observer exists to reflect and engage with the student body, and that is a continual process, not something that hap­pens once or twice per week. it is an every­day occurrence, and accordingly, we have to cover it every day. 
secondly, i am lucky to work with a group of people who make that philosophy work, every day. when the server crashed, i pre­pared myself for the possibility that we would not be able to put together a paper, that it would just be too much hard work. but the writers, editors, photographers and de­signers all surprised me, as they have done again and again in my time as editor-in­chief. There were no complaints, just cheer­ful attitudes and hard work. 
so in the end, miko was right. i may have gone off the grid unwillingly, but it made me appreciate the people around me all the more. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Cut ND’s ties to Bill Cosby 
in 1990, notre dame gave bill cosby an honorary degree. while giving a lecture on campus, cosby asked all-american defensive lineman dean brown to reveal his gpa in front of the crowd. when brown said he had a 2.5, mr. cosby angrily responded that a “2.5 is ok if you have a mental disorder. you should be ashamed of yourself. you should have worked harder.” brown began to cry and told mr. cosby, “i worked hard. i did my best...” mr. cosby cut him off, saying, “you didn’t do enough.” 
Twenty-five years later, bill cosby lost his status as “america’s dad” after nearly 60 sexual assault ac­cusations and a 2005 deposition confessing to using strong, now-illegal sedatives to drug women. 
prior to his fall into notoriety, mr. cosby amassed almost 60 honorary degrees, including the one from notre dame. These universities now face a complex situation and a serious question — what should we do when an honorary degree recipient turns out to be thoroughly dishonorable? To date, 23 universi­ties have rescinded mr. cosby’s degree, and 20 more are expected to follow suit. several others have re­fused to comment. a stubborn few have stated they will not rescind. 
notre dame is one of them, although you may have missed the university’s announcement last september. no campus publications reported our administration’s statement, released quietly on a Friday before a home football game. whatever the intended effect, the result was that even stu­dents, faculty and administrators who follow the university’s actions closely were largely unaware of the decision. 
our vp of communications, paul browne, is­sued the statement on september 26, 2015. Five days before, browne told “shame on you” at a FoX 28 reporter who asked Father Jenkins a question about campus sexual assault at a press conference. Those are inconvenient optics, but the problem is not so much the messenger as the message itself. The statement said it is not our practice to rescind degrees “in the absence of criteria applicable retro­actively to all.” it then provides the comforting re­assurance that the university would not have given mr. cosby the award had they known what is now public. The statement goes on to assert that in light of “the pervasive silence that … allow[s] offenders to escape responsibility,” we now “recommit our­selves to doing all we can to prevent sexual assault.” 
This recommitment apparently does not extend to revoking mr. cosby’s degree and to sending an unambiguous message that sexual assault will not be tolerated. now that approximately 40 of the 60 universities either have rescinded or are working to rescind bill cosby’s degrees, notre dame stands in the minority and in the wrong. 
The university is concerned with precedent. but a lack of precedent at notre dame should not deter us from decisive action. other universities have rescinded degrees before (such as those of robert mugabe and kaiser wilhelm ii) and without inci­dent. even if precedent were at issue, it’s unclear why a precedent that cements old ties to rapists is worth upholding, or what possible benefit we derive from continuing a relationship — no matter how distanced — with a man who committed such ter­rible crimes. we see no problem with taking firm positions on what is and is not acceptable from a person honored by a notre dame degree. as for cri­teria “applicable retroactively to all,” we suggest the following: if the reasons for which a person received an honorary degree are undermined by the emer­gence of new information, then we can consider revoking the degree. 
Fortunately, other catholic schools like marquette and Fordham are leading the way. marquette provost (and former notre dame associate provost) dan myers rescinded cosby’s marquette degree just a day before notre dame issued its own statement. Fordham’s president said: “as a Jesuit university, Fordham could no longer stand behind the degree it had bestowed upon mr. cosby.” if it goes against other schools’ catholic morals to allow cosby to keep his degrees, why is it not against our catholic morals as well? 
The majority of schools have held very pub­lic discussions surrounding mr. cosby’s degree. haverford college asked its students, “how and why are degrees awarded, and how and why could they, or should they, be rescinded?” before notre dame made its decision, all members of our community 
— students, staff, and faculty — should have had the opportunity to engage in meaningful dialogue on these questions. as myers said in marquette’s announcement, a catholic university “challeng[es] students to integrate knowledge and faith into their real-life decisions.” how are we supposed to do the same if we are never invited to the “grown ups’ table” to help make these decisions? 
when debating bill cosby’s degree revocation, we must take stock of the message we send to sexual assault survivors at notre dame. currently it’s the wrong one. keeping mr. cosby’s degree sends a message we’re embarrassed to be associated with. as a university we decry the “pervasive silence” surrounding sexual assault, but chose not to incon­venience ourselves when given an opportunity to speak out. 
in the last week, george washington university reversed its previous decision to keep mr. cosby’s degree. president steven knapp wrote an open letter saying that after discussing the issue with students, including sexual assault survivors, he de­cided that a lack of precedent was not a sufficient reason to retain mr. cosby’s university honor. 
notre dame can and should do the same. it is not too late for notre dame to make up for the oppor­tunity it missed. acknowledge that we made a mis­take. open a conversation. release another press statement revoking an honor mr. cosby can no lon­ger claim to deserve. 
Grace Watkins 
junior 
Alex Caton 
class of 2015 Jan. 12 



The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

how to be nominated by your favorite political party 
Louis Bertolotti 
mr. 2016 

Twenty-four million people watched the first republican debate in august, and 15.3 watched the first democratic debate in october. These numbers set the records for the most watched primary de­bates of all time. The american people are clearly interested in the presidential election, and yet that election is still 11 months away. why do we start the madness so early? 
it is important to remember that nothing is actu­ally decided until the beginning of February. it is then the delegate process begins, which is basically a scaled-down version of the electoral college the candidates will face in november. each state is as­signed a number of delegates by the party’s national committee, and then independently decides how to dole out these votes. 
on the republican side, there are 2,472 delegates up for grabs. each state gets a base of 10 at-large delegates, three delegates for each of its congres­sional districts, and three to represent each state’s party leadership. bonus delegates are then awarded to states that either voted for the republican party in 2012, or have elected republican governors, sena­tors, congressmen or state legislators since. on the democratic side, there are 4,764 delegates, awarded to states based on a complex formula that is basi­cally computed half by the number of electoral votes and half by the percentage of people from that state who voted democratic in the 2012 elections. in order to win the nomination, a candidate needs a majority of these delegates: The magic number for a republican is 1,237, and for a democrat, 2,383. 
The question you must be asking now is how can­didates can win these delegates. The good news is 
Jenna Wilson 
guest columnist 

i generally say i hate people. people are, quite frankly, the worst — myself included. i don’t hate people because we argue, or hurt the ones we love, or even because i have to close the new york Times within five minutes of reading the depressing events that are being reported. i hate people be­cause i see how beautiful we all are and how often we take that for granted. 
have you ever thought about how much you are truly capable of? look at the people around you. maybe you’re in class, or maybe it’s lunchtime and you’re in the dining hall with every other student; maybe you’re just sitting outside (i have no clue why you would choose to read this outside in this weather) or maybe you are at home. wherever it is, look at each person around you and think about all the things each and every one of them is capable of. each of them has the ability to make life, but also to take life; to take hearts, and to break hearts; to fight, or to fly; to make friends, or to make enemies; to invite, or to shun; to save, or to condemn; to tell the truth, or to lie. and we have no control over which of these any given person will choose to do on any given day, which is truly terrifying to think about. but i do not hate people for this. 
in almost every case, it seems easier to act nega­tively. Just last month, it took about 15 minutes for two people to take the lives of 14 others in san bernardino, california. yet generally people choose the more challenging actions — it’s more common that it is just as complicated as the delegate appoint­ment process. basically, a state can either choose to hold primary elections or caucuses. primary elec­tions are more common and are exactly what they sound like: a normal state-wide election in which voters pick their preferred candidate for president. 
The caucus system complicates things even more. often described as a “gathering of neighbors,” it is an event held across the state in hundreds or thou­sands of local schools, churches or homes. any in­terested people from the “precinct” may attend and lobby for their preferred candidate(s). at the end of the discussion, a poll is held, and a representative is selected who supports the winning candidate. This representative is then sent to the county convention, where the process is repeated, sending representa­tives to the district convention, and so on, until the state delegates are decided. 
so where does this all leave us in the current cycle? iowa is famously the first state in the nation to decide on its candidates, with its caucus for both parties taking place Feb. 1. new hampshire is not far behind with its primary taking place Feb. 9. The only other February contests take place later in the month in nevada and south carolina. 
“super Tuesday” is then the first nation-wide test of the candidates, with 14 states holding their nomi­nating contests on the first Tuesday of march. by this point, the nominees of both parties are usually all but assured, although nominating contests con­tinue until early June. 
in this cycle, there will be a few things to watch out for in the coming months. on the republican side, the contest will likely come down to an “outsid­er” candidate against an “establishment” candidate, with donald Trump as the wild card. iowa, a state heavy with white, evangelical voters, should decide the “outsider” candidate. if Ted cruz, who currently 
I hate people 
for people to dedicate nine months to literally producing human life. Though this is an extreme example, it seems that most choose the more chal­lenging route, and it is honestly mind-blowing to think how anyone is still here given how easy it is for us to hurt one another. even more mind-blow­ing to me, though, is that this mysteriously wonder­ful aspect of humanity goes generally unnoticed. 
it seems to me that most of us have grown accus­tomed to receiving to the point that it is expected or dismissed as routine. we do the same things with the same people so often we forget how lucky we are to be with those people. but what if one of those people just disappeared? could you be confi­dent that, wherever they are, they know they mean something to you, or would their memories with you only consist of sitting at lunch together while you each checked Facebook and yik yak on your phones? is loss what it would take for us to realize how much better our lives are when these people are around? maybe it is worth it to let them know how dear they are to us, before it’s too late. 
and while these thoughts flutter around my mind constantly, i still find myself more bothered by the quick judgments we make about one another. as humans, we have the ability to think and under­stand what happens around us, and yet we judge others without considering what they might be going through. i am talking about the homeless person you pass and look at with disgust, when you don’t know if you might end up on the same corner someday. i am talking about the girl you call anorexic with no thought of the possibility that you might one day look in the mirror and lose leads in the polls there, can stay on top and fend off a challenge from donald Trump or ben carson, then the more conservative wing of the gop will likely coalesce around him. 
in new hampshire, meanwhile, donald Trump currently leads in the polls, while marco rubio and chris christie are in a tight race for second. Jeb bush and John kasich are not far behind. whoever can edge out amongst these four will likely be seen as the “establishment” candidate moving forward, benefitting from increased financial support as the party’s big donors unite to try and beat down the more conservative wing. 
The wild card, of course, is the donald. no one knows if his current poll numbers can translate into actual primary success, and no one will find out until after the votes are cast. Trump is a candidate unlike any other in recent times, and no pundit has been able to predict him correctly. 
on the democratic side, bernie sanders will have to edge out hilary clinton in both iowa and new hampshire to have any realistic shot at the nomina­tion. unless he is able to do this, his candidacy (al­though not his ideas) will fade into oblivion. 
in the end, as tired as you may already be of the non-stop coverage of the presidential race, the fun has only just begun. we are still far away from find­ing out who the nominees will be, and even further from the nov. 8 election that will decide the 45th president of the united states. it’s a complicated process for an even more complicated job. 
Louis Bertolotti is a junior in the College of Arts & Letters. He is majoring in political science and history and is from the great state of New Jersey. He can be contacted at lbertolo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
your appetite. i am talking about the smoker you walk past holding your breath and laughing at how disgusting that person is without considering that they might be trying to find their breath in a pack of cigarettes, a situation so ironic you think it could only be found in fiction. 
of all the things we are capable of, the most incredible is our ability to feel. if we only look at someone and forget about them once they are gone, then it doesn’t matter to us what has happened that led to their departure. but if we feel someone in the sense that our lives are changed by them, even in the slightest, then it will matter. and maybe, just maybe, if we took the time to genuinely appreciate those around us more and let them know how much we truly appreciate them, maybe they’ll find less reason to depart. 
Feeling gives us meaning. it is what motivates us to act one way rather than another. if the people around us mean anything at all, it is worth taking the time to not only let them know, but make sure they feel how much they truly mean to us. The real reason i claim to hate everyone isn’t because i actu­ally do, but because i hate the fact that so many of us continue through life and take for granted how little we hate each other in a world that makes hat­ing each other so easy. 
Jenna Wilson is a senior at Saint Mary’s College and a junior at the University of Notre Dame, participating in the dual-degree engineering program. Contact her at jwilso01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY  SPRING | riley  mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: good fortune will be yours if you don’t give in to emotional blackmail or manipulative tactics. staying focused on what will bring you the most in return and negotiating on your own behalf will be your ticket to success. opportunities are apparent, but so are poor choices regarding money, health and legal matters. be responsible for your own happiness and please yourself. your numbers are 5, 14, 23, 31, 33, 46, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): work behind the scenes to get as much done as possible. now is not the time to spar with one of your colleagues or someone in an authoritative position. Take care of your responsibilities and keep moving forward. romance will ease your stress. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): listen to any advice offered and put your own personal touch on the way you move forward. it’s ok to be different or to explore new possibilities. what you engage in today will bring rewards far beyond your expectations. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t be too willing to put your responsibilities aside to help someone who is complaining. it’s important to live up to your promises. do your best to take care of your personal needs and leave some time to rejuvenate. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): a chance to try something new or do something different will improve your outlook and get you moving in an interesting direction that allows you to show off talents you didn’t know you had. embrace the future with optimism. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you’ll have plenty to think about if you disagree with the people you deal with each day. ask someone you trust for advice regarding a situation that has left you questioning your current status. a simple solution is likely eluding you. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get out and about. see what’s going on in your neighborhood or plan a day trip. doing things with children or friends will broaden your outlook and help you set better priorities. a change at home will affect your finances.  

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): your attention should be on yourself, your loved ones and making personal changes that will improve your life. don’t let situations at home escalate because someone is being forceful. back away and let things settle down.  

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): share your ideas and emotional feelings. it’s important to clear up any concerns before moving forward or making changes that will affect your life. a money matter, settlement or contract will escalate if you don’t deal with it quickly. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t engage in something you can’t finish. it’s important to bring about alterations to the way you live if you want to avoid complaints and interference from someone who disagrees with your choices. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): an unusual or unexpected financial opportunity will develop. use your experience and knowledge to orchestrate what you want to see unfold. you can raise your standard of living or change the way you invest in the future. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): put your efforts and attention toward your physical wellbeing, and do whatever it takes to improve your health. what you achieve will bring a positive response from someone you love. change will be rewarding. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): be careful how you handle others. if you are too serious or negative, you will face the same in return. an honest but diplomatic approach when dealing with friends, relatives or your lover will help you avoid trouble. Focus on financial gains. 

Birthday Baby: you are insightful, inspirational and sensitive. you are persuasive and tactical. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | The observer 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Supporting fans, not franchises 
Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
let’s start with a history lesson. 
it also happens to be one of england’s greatest sporting tales. 
it’s a story of a soccer club founded in a london district known much more for its tennis than its association football. in 1889, wimbledon Fc was founded, then known as wimbledon old centrals, starting a history as an ama­teur club that lasted for more than seven decades. The dons, as the club was known, be­came one of england’s better amateur clubs, winning the Fa amateur cup in 1963, before winning election to the profes­sional, storied Football league in 1977. 
and that’s where their cinderella story truly started. Two years later, the dons won promotion to the Third division, only staying for a year before suffering relegation. 
six years later, wimbledon had won three promotions to get to the english top flight, just nine years after entering the league for the first time. 
but wimbledon’s story didn’t end there. Two years after reaching the First division, they met the biggest, most sto­ried club in english football at the time in the Fa cup Final: liverpool. wimbledon’s “crazy gang,” as they were known, pulled off one of the top wins in wembley stadium history, downing the star-studded reds, 1-0. 
in 11 years, the club had gone from a non-league side to the winners of the world’s greatest knockout competition. 
a year later, however, the story started to take a turn for the worst. when liverpool met nottingham Forest in the Fa cup semifinal next year at sheffield’s hillsborough stadium, 96 fans in the liverpool end were crushed to death on a standing terrace. 
The findings of the Taylor report, the united kingdom’s enquiry into the disaster, rec­ommended that all first- and second-tier clubs remove their standing terraces, replacing them with all-seated stands. 
The result was that wimbledon had to leave plough lane, a place they’d called home for 79 years, mov­ing into a ground-sharing agreement at crystal palace’s selhurst park. despite the move, the dons were one of the founding members of the premier league a year later, and stayed in the division until relegation finally hit in 2000. The club had competed against the odds, won the Fa cup and stayed in the division much longer than expected. 
but the ground share at their south london rivals crippled the club financially. a move to dublin was floated in the late 1990s, but in 2001, wimbledon’s new owners sub­mitted for an unprecedented move to milton keynes. unlike in the united states, where relocation was common, it’s effectively unheard of in european soccer — the clubs belong to their communities, often neighborhoods, not sit­ting there as a franchise. 
after much consideration, a special panel from england’s Football association approved wimbledon’s move to milton keynes in 2002. in the report, the panel suggested that wimbledon supporters form­ing what’s known as a phoenix club, one that carries on as the spiritual successor of a since-folded club, was “not in the wider interests of football.” 
but the supporters were not to be stopped. That year, dons fans formed aFc wimbledon as a fan-owned club, starting once more at the bottom of england’s football hierarchy. in the final season before wimbledon Fc moved north to milton keynes, the ninth-tier phoenix club outdrew the orig­inal, second-division one. 
in a bit of symmetry, nine years later, aFc wimbledon had won back the dons’ rightful place in the Football league. They were promoted five times in those nine sea­sons, playing at another site that isn’t their home: kingsmeadow. 
last month, aFc wimbledon got initial approval from lo­cal authorities to construct a stadium on plough lane, just a stone’s throw from the club’s old home. if the project continues to move forward, it would finally signal a return to wimbledon’s football home. 
but why am i, as a random american so concerned with a team in england’s fourth tier? simple. it’s a brilliant cinderella story of what hap­pens when fans come together to overcome of the often-toxic, money-hungry culture that world soccer has become. 
and so a month ago, i be­came a member of the dons Trust, the group that owns the majority of the shares in the club. i’m proud to be aboard. because sports are about fans. 
not franchises. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TRACK & FIELD 
irish to ease into new year at wisconsin open 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
after more than a month off, notre dame returns to action Friday at the wisconsin open in madison, wisconsin. 
at their last meet, the blue and gold invitational, the irish took home 14 first-place performances. however, irish head coach alan Turner said the goal for the wisconsin open will be to get the team back into shape as the season warms up. 
“i hate to say it, but the goal of this meet is not to go out and score as many points as we can,” Turner said. “The goal is to go out there and get some very good performances, get the cobwebs off and ... just get our legs back under us. get the athletes back acclimated to competing again.” 
Turner also said the team’s focus is on the sprints and field events, rather than distance events. 
“none of our distance run­ners or wisconsin’s distance runners will be [competing],” Turner said. “This is going to be more of a sprints, jumps and throws meet. The highest we’re going is the mile at this meet, and we’re not having any of our top milers competing.” 

and with stars like senior molly seidel not running, at­tention will turn to other stand­outs like senior all-american sprinter margaret bamgbose, junior pole vaulter nathan richartz and junior thrower anthony shivers. Turner said he is looking forward to seeing how richartz and shivers, es­pecially, continue to develop. 
“i’m really excited to see how anthony’s [shivers] go­ing to do,” Turner said. “and [wisconsin’s] men’s thrower, that’s the ncaa champion a few years ago. ... They’ve had some better athletes than us in men’s throw, so i’m anxious to see how [shivers] competes against their throwers. 
and nate richartz in the pole vault, he came on like gangbusters at the tail end of last year, and he had his best opening meet of the year at the blue and gold [invitational]. so i’m really anxious to see what he can do.” 
richartz placed first in the pole vault at the blue and gold invitational with a jump of 5.05 meters, and shivers placed first in the weight throw on a 19.24 meter toss. 
Turner also said he is excited to compete against a high cali­ber program like wisconsin and in a different setting to to prepare the team for the chal­lenges it will experience in the acc championships. in the ncaa preseason rankings, wisconsin’s women’s team was ranked ninth. 
“we’re going to wisconsin because it’s a different venue,” Turner said. “we haven’t been there and that program is a strong program and one that’s won a lot of big Ten titles in the last 20 years, so they have that tradition going on there. and they’ll have a pretty good crowd. i don’t think our kids are used to having that crowd. ... The crowd’s really going to be on top of us the whole time, so it’s going to be a good expe­rience to just really get their feet wet and get used to com­peting at this high level when they step on the track.” 
The wisconsin open kicks off at 11 a.m. Friday morning in madison, wisconsin. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

irish winger has scored in his last two games and paces the team in both points and plus/ minus during the team’s un­beaten streak. 
other contributing factors to the team’s recent success include an upswing in blocked shots, particularly among the team’s younger defensemen. Freshman blueliner dennis gilbert leads the team with 20 blocked shots on the season which cal petersen said has earned the freshman some de­served praise. 
“[gilbert] is doing a great job, as is all the defense,” petersen said. “blocking shots is a culture at notre dame, and the guys in the defensive corps really take it on themselves to help out a lot. That’s been huge for me. it’s limiting the amount of opportunities that get to the net, and for that i’m grateful. it’s awesome to see a freshman [like gilbert] getting the recognition for blocking shots.” 
The irish look to sustain their unbeaten streak to nine as they host merrimack this Friday at 7:40 p.m. at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 
petersen said. “one of the things we’ve been working on is having a bit more edge at home. on the road it’s easy to be really physical — some­times it’s easier to fall back in complacency with the comfort we have around here.” 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson echoed his starting goal­tender’s words regarding an increase in physical play — particularly when it came to recently returned sophomore left wing anders bjork. bjork rejoined the team last week af­ter having helped steer the u.s. world Junior championship team to a bronze medal in helsinki. Jackson spoke of the process of re-acclimating to the college game after having played abroad. 
“The biggest adjustment is offensively not getting mes­merized by the additional ice, not playing the perimeter,” coach Jackson said. “That’s the only thing [bjork] has to be conscious of. we’ve been doing work trying to get him more to the dirty area.” 
physicality aside, bjork’s offensive game has lost no ground since his return; the 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | The observer The observer | FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 




W Bball  finished second on the team in points (11) and rebounds (four),  in the first half.” instead, boston college kept  Draft  for his work in the classroom at notre dame, receiving capital  
conTinued From page 12  while  junior  guard  lindsay  the game close by relying on  conTinued From page 12  one  academic  all-american  
allen came back from a score- freshman  forward  mariella  honors and being named  acc  
use the shot clock, they ran a lot  less first half to record 10 points.  Fasoula, who scored 20 of the  end of it. but i was relieved and  men’s soccer scholar-athlete of  
of offense, and i think we got a  she also recorded four assists  eagles’ 50 points. Fasoula al­ excited; it was a whirlwind of  the year in 2014. hodan said he  
little frustrated with their pace,”  and a steal in the game’s final 20  most singlehandedly kept the  emotions for sure.”  grew both on and off the field  
mcgraw said. “ … so that was a  minutes.  eagles competitive in the paint,  he joins former notre dame  during his time at notre dame.  
problem for us. we’ve got to be  “They were going under the  where they were narrowly out- defender  aaron  maund,  the  “notre  dame was extremely  
able to control the tempo, and  ball  screens,  and  she  made  scored, 36-34.  12th-overall selection in 2012,  influential in my development,  
we did not control the tempo.”  some really nice … jumpers and  “Fasoula is a really big girl who  at  real salt lake. maund and  not only as a soccer player but  
in the second quarter, how- used the screens really well,”  takes up a lot of space, and she’s  lachowecki  played  together  primarily as a person,” hodan  
ever,  the  irish  made  their  mcgraw said of the adjustments  really hard to guard,” mcgraw  in the irish back four in 2011.  said. “in terms of soccer, coach  
biggest push of the night, out­ allen made to break out after  said. “so we tried a couple dif­ lachowecki said it  was  a relief  [bobby] clark and the coaching  
scoring the eagles 19-8, with  halftime.  ferent things [to stop her].”  to have the opportunity to play  staff were incredible. They were  
most of their offense coming in  boston college’s slower pace  For the most part, sophomore  alongside a former teammate.  really helpful and helped me de­ 
a 10-0 run in the final 3:30 of the  kept notre dame well off its sea- forward  brianna Turner had  “i’ve seen aaron a few times  velop as a player.”  
half. Freshman guard marina  son average in points per game  the task of limiting the 6-foot-4  since he graduated,” lachowecki  he led the irish in goals dur­ 
mabrey  accounted  for  seven  (83.4), but the irish did con- Fasoula. and while her boston  said. “he was a senior when i was  ing the 2014 season with nine  
of those 10 points to lead the  nect on their shots at or above  college counterpart did lead all  a freshman, so i’m excited to be  and scored a total of 29 in 87  
charge, including a 3-point shot  their typical rate, shooting 49.1  scorers in the matchup, Turner  able to be reunited with him. it’s  games. That tally includes both  
with 11 seconds left to give her  percent from the field and 55.6  had success as well, grabbing  going to be nice to have at least  of the goals in notre dame’s 2-0  
team a 32-20 halftime lead.  from 3-point range.  a season-high 13 rebounds to  one friend out there so it won’t be  against new mexico in the 2013  
mabrey ended the night with  The irish entered the match- go with eight points. she also  totally foreign and to have some­ ncaa  semifinal to send the  
14 points to lead notre dame,  up atop the  acc  rankings in  blocked four shots and stole the  one to help me get acclimated to  irish to their first ever national  
her fifth time this season as the  3-point  shooting  alongside  ball twice.  a new system, new players and  title game, where they defeated  
team’s leading scorer. she also  boston  college,  which  has  The irish now return to notre  ultimately living in a new city.”  maryland to claim the program’s  
chipped in three steals, two as- built a reputation as a perim­ dame, where they  will  host  lachowecki scored eight goals  first championship. hodan said  
sists and a block in 18 minutes  eter-shooting  team,  mcgraw  three straight games at purcell  and dished out nine assists over  playing a part in the national  
of work.  said.  defensively,  however,  pavilion, their longest home- the course of his  notre  dame  championship win was his favor­ 
“marina  came  in  off  the  notre dame held the eagles to  stand left in the season. That  career and received big east all­ ite moment at notre dame.  
bench and gave us a big lift,”  30.8 percent on attempts from  stretch begins monday, when  freshman honors in 2012 and  “winning the national cham­ 
mcgraw said. “ … defensively,  long-distance.  they face no. 13 Tennessee in a  second-team all-acc honors in  pionship my sophomore year  
she got up and pressured the  “i thought we did a much bet­ regular-season matchup for the  2015. he credited his coaches and  was definitely the highlight of  
ball well. i thought she played  ter job in the first half,” mcgraw  fifth consecutive year. Tipoff is  teammates at notre dame for his  my notre dame career. That’s an  
pretty well.”  said of her team’s defense. “The  scheduled for 7 p.m.  career success.  experience that i’ll never forget,”  
Four other irish players posted  second half, not nearly as good.  “i’d just like to thank my coach­ hodan said.  
eight or more points. graduate  They got loose a couple times  Contact Greg Hadley at   es at notre dame for everything  hodan said he is excited to play  
student guard madison cable,  and shot it better than they did  ghadley@nd.edu  they’ve done for me,” lachowecki  with the earthquakes.  
said. “my coaches, and my team­ “i’m really looking forward to  
mates, too, are the guys who’ve helped me to get to where i  my professional career,” hodan said. “i’m really thankful for that  
am today. i’d like to thank the university of notre dame as well  opportunity, and i’m just taking it one step at a time.”  
for giving me the opportunity to  lachowecki and hodan’s selec­ 
play and giving me an education  tions mean notre dame has had  
at such a great school, too. it’ll be  multiple players selected in the  
definitely missed. i’m very grate- last 10 — and 12 of the last 13 —  
ful for this opportunity.”  mls superdrafts, with no players  
hodan was selected 28th over- selected in 2006. however, this is  
all by the earthquakes and fin- the first year since 2011 without  
ishes his notre dame career with  a notre dame player selected in  
a long list of individual honors.  the first round of the superdraft  
The wisconsin native was named  and the first time since 2008 no  
acc  offensive  player  of  the  irish player was among the top 20  
year, an nscaa division i first- selections.  
team all-american and a mac  
hermann  Trophy  semifinalist  Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  
in 2014. he was also recognized  doboyle1@nd.edu  
M Bball  duke, for its part, is 58-1 the past four seasons at cameron indoor.  
conTinued From page 12  This season, five blue devil play­ 
ers are averaging double-digit  
a matter of fact, when we subbed  points, led by sophomore guard  
matt ryan in early in the boston  grayson allen at 20.3 points per  
college game, i think we went on  game. while duke is ranked in  
a 9-0 run with that same group.  the top-10 in the country and is  
The iowa game, i thought matt  coming off a national champion­ 
ryan was fabulous in that game.  ship, the blue devils were tripped  
we’ve got data on how that group  up  wednesday when  clemson  
plays. my feeling was let’s look at  upset them 68-63 at clemson.  
starting that way — it really opens  brey said results like this in the  
the floor up. it helps Zach where  acc encourage him as the irish  
he can roll down the middle of  enter conference play in full force.  
the floor, it helps our guards be  “we certainly don’t have it fig- 
able to drive it and make plays.”  ured out, but not a lot of other  
while  cameron  indoor pres- people do either,” brey said. “so  
ents a unique atmosphere, brey  let’s just get back and keep prac­ 
said he is banking on his older  ticing, keep plugging. you’re hov­ 
players guiding ryan in his first  ering around .500 in this league,  
road start.  you’re going to be in the mix.”  
“i think the biggest thing is to  brey, an assistant with the blue  
not play too fast when you’re a  devils for eight seasons, will re- 
young guy in that atmosphere,”  turn to duke when the irish take  
brey said. “i think that crowd  on the blue devils on saturday  
speeds you up and makes you try  at 2 p.m. at  cameron  indoor  
and do stuff maybe you shouldn’t  stadium.  
do, especially offensively — you  
try and answer back maybe in the  Contact Brian Plamondon at  
midst of a run.”  bplamond@nd.edu  




ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 63, bosTon college 50 
notre dame uses strong second quarter to top bc 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
it was never too close but never a blowout either, as no. 3 notre dame was bogged down in a slow-paced game against boston college on the road Thursday night but held on for the 63-50 win. 
The irish (16-1, 5-0 acc) never trailed against the eagles (12-4, 0-3), seizing the lead 49 seconds into the game on a layup from senior guard michaela mabrey, but they never quite pulled away either, with their largest lead of 18 points coming mid­way through the third quarter and shrinking from there on out. 
irish head coach muffet mcgraw said before the game she wanted to see her squad get off to a faster start than it has in previous games, but notre dame led just 13-12 after the first quarter and shot 35.3 percent from the field over the opening 10 minutes. 
“They play a little bit slower pace than we do, so they like to 
see w bball PAGE 11 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Jackson to lead Irish at Duke 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
looking for consecutive wins in acc play for the first time this season, notre dame travels to cameron indoor stadium to take on no. 9 duke on saturday. 
The irish (11-5, 2-2 acc) will return to the venue where they suffered their most lopsided loss last year, falling to the blue devils (14-3, 3-1) 90-60 less than two weeks after beating them at home. 
“you would hope that now that this nucleus has been in that at­mosphere, they won’t be as wide-eyed,” irish head coach mike brey said. 
despite the blowout last year, brey said that game was the first time he started to see junior guard demetrius Jackson as a team leader. 
“pat [connaughton] and Jerian [grant] didn’t have a lot to say, they were shell-shocked,” brey said. “it was the only time all year that those two guys were shell-shocked, and i loved how demetrius kind of took the baton so to speak. and i thought the rest of the season, his voice was more noticeable and more respected.” 
This season, Jackson has be­come the focal point for the irish, averaging 17.1 points per game and adding 5.4 assists per contest, but according to brey, Jackson’s contributions are felt far beyond the stat sheet. 
“he’s having an unbeliev­able season for us,” brey said. “defending, what he [does] on the defensive backboards, re­bounding the ball. wednesday night he really wasn’t in a great offensive flow … [but] some of the plays he made to [senior for­ward] Zach [auguste] were key.” 
Freshman forward matt ryan will join Jackson and auguste in the starting lineup saturday in what will be his second con­secutive start in place of sopho­more forward bonzie colson. after struggling to find consis­tency early in the season, brey decided to make the switch for wednesday’s georgia Tech game, but he also said the irish won’t look completely different. 
“it’s not like we haven’t played stretches in a game with the group that started,” brey said. “as 
see m bball PAGE 11 
HOCKEY 

ND resumes conference play 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
no. 13 notre dame returns home this weekend when it hosts merrimack for a pair of hockey east tilts at compton Family ice arena. 
The irish (10-4-7, 6-1-2 hockey east) are one of the hot­test teams in college hockey: The team is riding an eight-game unbeaten streak (5-0­
3) that stretches back to a 3-1 home victory over western michigan in the final game of the shillelagh Tournament over Thanksgiving weekend. The win streak marks notre dame’s longest unbeaten stretch since the 2013-2014 season, when the team went 7-0-1 in February and march. The streak is cur­rently tied for the longest ac­tive stretch without a loss in the ncaa with no. 1 north dakota, which holds a perfect 8-0-0 re­cord in the same stretch. 
sophomore goaltender cal petersen’s play has served a sig­nificant role in notre dame’s torrid pace. currently second in the ncaa in shots faced, petersen has posted a 1.61 goals-against average and a .951 save percentage during notre dame’s last eight games. petersen lauded the play of his teammates wednesday, saying the short holiday break has al­lowed his team to strive for an­other level of play. 
“The whole team has really taken a step since the break,” petersen said. “The break helped a ton with just resting us and getting us prepared for a solid showing in denver, and it really showed [against western michigan]. we’ve set the bar for our standards a lot higher.” 
petersen also spoke of a cer­tain excitement that accom­panied the team in returning home to compton Family ice arena but added the coaching staff has been encouraging the team to bring its away-game grit with it back to its home ice. 
“it’s nice being home,” 
see hockey PAGE 9 
MEN’S SOCCER | mls superdraFT 
Two selected in second round of mls superdraft 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
notre dame saw two of its 2015 season captains selected in the second round of Thursday’s mls superdraft, as defender max lachowecki and midfield­er patrick hodan were selected by real salt lake and the san Jose earthquakes, respectively. 
lachowecki — who started 85 games for the irish, including ev­ery game of the national cham­pionship-winning 2013 season 
— was selected 25th overall by real salt lake. however, he said he wasn’t paying any attention to the draft when his name was announced. 
“To be honest, i wasn’t even watching,” lachowecki said. “i was so nervous that i was out in my driveway shooting hoops, i didn’t even want to watch. my mom was actually watching in the living room and i heard the door open up and she yelled my name, so i only caught the tail 
see draFT PAGE 11 






