
Volume 50, Issue 124 | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
Jenkins defends Laetare Medal decision 
University president responds to criticism on selection of Biden, Boehner as this year’s award recipients 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
university president fr. John Jenkins defended his decision to award the laetare medal to Vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the House John boehner in an interview with the observer on tuesday, his first comments since the university announced this year’s recipients in a press re­lease on march 5. 
the decision sparked a con­troversy — on campus and on a national scale — and has received both criticism and support from various members of the notre dame community. 
“I don’t think controversies are necessarily a bad thing if they lead us to have serious conversations, to think deeply about issues,” Jenkins said in the interview. 
the laetare medal is award­ed to an american catholic at notre dame’s commencement each year in recognition of outstanding service to the 
see laetare PAGE 4 



speaker explores gang relations in prisons 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
while mass incarceration may incapacitate and deter individuals from committing crimes, it can actually em­power sophisticated criminal organizations, according to benjamin lessing. lessing, assistant professor of politi­cal science at the university of chicago, unraveled the complicated dichotomy of prison gangs in a lecture “a Hole at the center of the state: prison Gangs as a threat to state authority” on thursday. 

lessing said he focuses on organized armed violence in­volving non-state actors who, unlike revolutionary insur­gents, are not trying to topple the state. 
“crime is a transgression of the authority of the state,” he said. “If everyone is breaking the laws, there is no state au­state authority and punish­ment restores that authority.” 
His research has focused on two gangs: the primeirio comando da capital (pcc) in brazil and the maras in el salvador, lessing said. 
“calling them prisons gangs doesn’t convey the scope of these criminal organizations,” he said. 
this gang activity can be traced back to mass 
thority. criminals transgress see prIson PAGE 4 



CEO examines gender in global consumer economy 

By MEGHAN SULLIVAN 
news writer 
the mendoza college of business and the university’s gender studies program host­ed bridget brennan, ceo of female factor and author of “why she buys,” on thursday to discuss women’s role in business. 
brennan’s lecture, “top trends in marketing and selling to women,” began by explaining the growth trends in the marketplace. 

she addressed the fact that nations like brazil, china and India tend to be labeled as the greatest growth markets, but she emphasized that the com­monly unmentioned female market is especially large. 
“women are now consid­ered to be one of the world’s largest emerging growth markets because of women’s increased economic par­ticipation, educational levels and political participation,” brennan said. 
this increased female presence in the market has resulted in the creation of programs targeting women by major companies, she said. brennan said companies like under armour, levi’s and Harley-davidson are develop­ing these types of programs with the hope of increas­ing their brand by including women. 
“women are the engine of the consumer economy, driv­ing between 70 and 80 
see trends PAGE 4 


Lecture promotes religious dialogue 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
saint mary’s center for spirituality hosted the 31st annual madeleva lecture on thursday, honoring the 175th anniversary of the founda­tion of the sisters of the Holy cross. the event featured three keynote speakers, all women scholars, to discuss religious dialogue. 
sr. eva mary Hooker, profes­sor of english at saint mary’s, began the night reading two original poems. the first was based on an image she saw in an illustrated bible, where lines of scripture were being picto­rially hoisted into place with a bumblebee and pulley, and the other poem was inspired by the line of sycamores lining the avenue, she said. 

“I want tonight to celebrate in poetic image the mission of this college and the sisters who have worked here and the land upon which it stands,” she said. 
see madeleVa PAGE 3 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining Hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret Hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie Galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is the greatest athletic performance of all time? 

Gabe Prado 
senior alumni Hall 

“2006 world cup semifinals, when Italy scored two goals in the last two minutes.” 
Sam Bradley 
sophomore st. edward’s Hall 
“st. ed’s b team basketball winning all the games.” 
Will Minor 
sophomore st. edward’s Hall 
“Kobe on wednesday.” 


Andrew Rebholz 
freshman 
carroll Hall 
“the Immaculate reception.” 
Michael O’Connor 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 
“cal ripken’s record for consecutive games played.” 
Matthew Grothaus 
junior 
fisher Hall 
“fisher b team soccer ‘winning’ the championship last year.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office Information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
the observer is published at: 
024 south dining Hall 
notre dame, In 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
postmaster 
send address corrections to: 
the observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, In 46556-077 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie Galioto marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com megan Valley elizabeth Greason meghan sullivan tori llorens 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
olivia mikkelsen matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

Unveiling of “The Football Scrimmage: Women’s Soccer vs. Women’s Lacrosse PIzza, Pop and 
caitlyn Jordan tabitha ricketts 
Shirt” 2016 Blue-Gold Game Northwestern vs. USC Politics 
Hammes Bookstore Notre Dame Stadium Women’s Soccer Arlotta Stadium Geddes Coffee House 
4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m. Practice Field 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 5 p.m. 
Corrections 

Brady Quinn will assist Student admission is 1 p.m. - 3 p.m. The Irish take on the Conversation on 
the observer regards itself as in the unveiling. free with ID. Exhibition match. visiting Trojans. foreign policy. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
ND Relay for Life ND Handbell Concert Culinary Academy: Lecture: Dr. David Jewish Seder Meal 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Make Your Own Sushi Gaus Coleman-Morse 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arena Heart Morris Inn Morris Inn Center 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
5 p.m. - 11 p.m. 8 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 4 p.m. - 6 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Walk for the American Celebrating the Tickets are $35 per Talk on Andean health Traditional dinner in 
we can correct our error. 

Cancer Association. Jubilee Year of Mercy. person. and development. honor of Passover. 

ndsmcobserVer.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | tHe obserVer 

SMC fine arts departments to stage ‘CHICAGO’ 
By JORDAN COCKRUM 
news writer 
saint mary’s will present the musical “cHIcaGo” this weekend, with perfor­mances friday, saturday and sunday. 
“It’s a very strong cast that we have in this show, and the sense of energy that fills the auditorium when they are performing these numbers is electrify­ing,” director mark abram­copenhaver said. “It’s a fun evening of theater.” 
“cHIcaGo” tells the sto­ry of the women in cook county Jail for murdering their husbands. However, beyond the surface of the story, the play explores his­tory and demonstrates the innate need to feel impor­tant, abram-copenhaver said. 
“what we see is charac­ters that are desperately trying to be acknowledged as being important in some way,” abram-copenhaver said. “they each go about doing that in different ways, but, in spite of the fact that they have this really human need that people can relate to, the way we see them go about it is really dark.” 

abram-copenhaver said the need to be acknowl­edged and feel important is precisely what makes the play relatable to so many. 
“they violate the law, they manipulate the press, they manipulate the court system — they are just re­ally cynical about rules and ethics,” he said. “none of those things are really important to them in their quest for attention. this might sound like some peo­ple we all know.” 
not only does “cHIcaGo” explore the human de­sire for recognition, but it also is an empowering story for women, abram­copenhaver said. 
“It is irreverent and it is sexy,” abram-copenhaver said. “especially this be­ing a story about women, it is about female empower­ment and females claiming power where they normally have none. the opening number is clearly that — these women in situations where they are all murder­esses, they are all on trial for their lives — but they are in this number claim­ing that what they did was the right thing to do.” 
the sexiness of the play is 
paId adVertIsement 
something that sets it apart from other musicals, first year Jennie liu said. 
“the costumes are pro­fessionally made, person­alized and more revealing, and the script contains some words that would nor­mally be replaced in a high school play,” liu said. 
liu wanted to participate in the production to experi­ence a new type of theater, she said. 
“I decided to participate in “cHIcaGo” because I loved the movie and the musical, and I wanted to see how a college produc­tion is different from a high school production,” liu said. 
due to its unique nature, “cHIcaGo” differs from even other college produc­tions, abram-copenhaver said. 
“this is going to be unlike other shows that you see at the schools, either saint mary’s or notre dame,” he said. “this is edgy, it is jazzy, and it is sexy in a way that many of our shows don’t have the opportunity to be.” 
Contact Jordan Cockrum at jcockrum01@saintmarys.edu 
Madeleva 
contInued from paGe 1 
“we have all built together a place in which we seek wisdom.” 
following the poetry reading, marianne farina, a professor of philosophy and theology at Graduate theological union in berkley, california, spoke on “sacred conversations and the evolution of dialogue.” 
mutual understanding and enrichment comes from sa­cred conversations, as such dialogue helps one appreci­ate the holiness of religions and cultures, she said. 
“sacred conversations con­tribute to a deep theology, which like deep ecology con­templates the interconnect­edness of all the cosmos,” farina said. “this deep the­ology evinces an evolution­ary consciousness skilled at holding it in esteem, the unenthused complex and en­thused connection that ex­ist between all living beings and the goodness God has ordained for each.” 
these conversations are opportunities for commu­nication with self, God and others, farina said. this idea is shared between christian and Islamic traditions. 
“for as the sacred texts of christians and muslims proclaim, ‘God spoke and creation came to existence.’ these texts also tell of God’s continuing communication with nature in ways that fos­ter a deep interiority in our encounters with cultures and religions,” she said. 
farina said she had a reli­gious experience of her own when providing cyclone relief efforts for an island off bangladesh. the island population heard anoth­er storm was coming, and farina spent the night of the scheduled storm in the sec­ond story of a building with numerous other women and children, many of whom were muslim. 
farina said the eye of the storm spared the island and very few were harmed. she noticed the muslim women never stopped praying that night, and asked why the fol­lowing morning. 
“over a simple breakfast we had the chance to share our experiences of that fear­ful night,” she said. “they remained in the prayer circle because if that night was to be their last, they wanted to meet God together as a com­munity uttering God’s own words on their lips. at that moment and in their telling, I gained insight.” 
farina said dialogue and communication are impor­tant and evolutionary when they enter into the depth of shared existence in God. this movement is not linear, but rather a discovery of God’s presence in everything, she said. 

“sacred conversation as­sists our entry into this depth, where we experience spiritual power,” she said. 
the response by sisters of the Holy cross in bangladesh is an example of the way mis­sion and dialogue crosses numerous boundaries, she said. 
“through [sacred conver­sations], we stand in solidar­ity with all others filled with hope, especially at the foot of the cross, bearing witness to ... a future larger than our­selves,” she said. 
asma afsaruddin, a profes­sor in the department of near eastern languages and cul­tures at Indiana university, said she has met farina multiple times at various symposiums. afsaruddin re­sponded to farina’s talk and said she appreciated farina’s passion for open interfaith dialogue. 
“change is to be affected first internally in the in­dividual before any mean­ingful external change can take root,” afsaruddin said. “the most important site for bringing out genu­ine individual change, fol­lowed by social change, is clearly the human heart. transformation of the hu­man heart occurs by making it receptive to God’s will and becoming filled with God consciousness,” she said. 
both christian and muslim traditions emphasize inter­nal transformation and rec­onciliation with the creator and created beings to live an open life which can develop profound self-knowledge, she said. 
“It is fitting that marianne should end her inspirational talk by emphasizing hope, to which God calls us to bear witness,” she said. “both christianity and Islam are founded on hope. the Quran and the bible assure us that we must never despair of God’s love and solicitude for us and never lose faith in the ultimate goodness of human beings.” 
afsaruddin said she agreed with farina that humility and hospitality are neces­sary for sacred conversations and inter-religious dialogue, because these conversations allow people from different traditions to celebrate inter­connectedness and common responsibilities to promote what is good. 
“sacred conversations help to keep this compact among ourselves alive and rele­vant,” she said. “and most importantly of all, these sa­cred conversations help us to push back against other pro­fane conversations that seek to divide and form hatred, of which unfortunately, as we know, there has been way too much lately.” 


tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

Laetare 
contInued from paGe 1 
church and society. the award honors catholics in all differ­ent fields; recent recipients include singer aaron neville, biologist Kenneth miller and poet dana Gloria. 
the decision to honor two catholic politicians was not a timely one in light of the up­coming election, Jenkins said, but instead meant to recognize biden and boehner’s many years of service to the country as their political careers begin to wind down. 
“we’re not endorsing the ac­tive politicians who are going to have a campaign,” he said. “but I thought it was an op­portunity to recognize people who had risen to the very high­est level of political leadership. for their dedication to public service, their willingness to work with others for the com­mon good, we recognize them with the laetare.” 
Jenkins said the decision to award the medal to two members of different political parties was to avoid any per­ception of the university en­dorsing one or the other. 
“I said before, and I’ll say it again, this award does not en­dorse the particular positions of either person,” he said. “… I think it’s significant these two men, despite being of dif­ferent parties disagreeing on so much, became and remain friends.” 
the decision was meant to address the division and ani­mosity present in today’s polit­ical environment, Jenkins said. 
Trends 
contInued from paGe 1 
percent of all consumer pur­chases,” she said. 
the domination of women in the marketplace can attrib­uted to two factors: buying power and influence, brennan said. an increased percentage of women with a higher educa­tion has increased their earn­ing power and contributes to their buying power, she said. 
“Influence means that even when a woman isn’t paying for something with her own money … she is typically the influencer or veto vote behind somebody else’s purchase,” brennan said. 
additionally, brennan aimed to counter the stereo­types surrounding women and shopping. as opposed to the misconceptions that women only care about shop­ping for shoes or handbags, she explained that women’s spending habits serve a great­er purpose. 
“the reason women are so responsible for consumer spending is because, in vir­tually every society in the world, women have primary caregiving responsibilities for both children and the elderly 
“I do want, with this award, to fight against the tendency that those who disagree with us are necessarily evil or wor­thy only of our disdain,” he said. “we can disagree — and even disagree on significant moral issues — and still find laudable qualities in those with whom we disagree.” 
each year, a committee pro­vides recommendations to Jenkins, who is free, but not required, to select an honoree from the list of suggestions. biden and boehner were not on this year’s list of proposed recipients, but Jenkins chose to award the medal to the two in­dividuals after discussing the matter with the committee, he said. 
In response, bishop Kevin rhoades, of the fort wayne­south bend diocese, released a statement condemning the university’s choice due to biden’s stances on abortion and gay marriage. rhoades said he is concerned honoring biden and boehner will pro­voke “scandal,” as defined in the catholic sense. 
“that is a somewhat techni­cal word in catholic thought that means that the action cre­ates the impression that we’re sanctioning or encouraging immoral or unjust actions,” Jenkins said. “I have the great­est respect for the bishop and want to respond by explaining our intentions, in the hope that I can counter any mispercep­tions leading to scandal.” 
multiple groups have writ­ten letters to the editor in the observer’s Viewpoint section voicing their dissent. more than 2,700 individuals — many 
— and just about everyone in between,” brennan said. 
such a culture has led to a “multiplier effect,” brennan said. because women tend to be responsible for purchas­ing things for the important people in their lives, they in­fluence the market for even items like men’s athletic ap­parel, she said. 
as a result, brennan’s work at female factor has focused on identifying and monitoring women’s trends in the market. the first major trend brennan said she saw was the large per­centage of women in today’s labor force. 
because 70 percent of wom­en with children under the age of 18 are a part of the labor force, today’s business must accommodate for time limi­tations on women’s shopping, 
brennan  said.  operational  
hour  changes  and  conve­ 
nience-focused  business  

models are ways in which companies can address time needs. 
“with less time, there’s a demand for services, not just products,” brennan said. 
similarly, brennan has also observed trends relating to the delayed marriages of to­day’s women. because women tend to wait until the age of 27 notre dame alumni — have signed a petition professing their agreement with the bish­op, urging the university to re­consider the decision. 

Jenkins said he wants to ar­ticulate the meaning of the award and his reasons for choosing it, a lesson he learned when the university invit­ed obama to speak at notre dame’s 2009 commencement. 
“what I’ve tried to do, and will try to do, is just explain clearly what we’re doing,” he said. “people can disagree; I don’t think that’s necessarily a bad thing, as long as it leaves to substantive, constructive dis­cussion and not just acrimony.” 
a majority at the criticism is directed at biden, which Jenkins said he is afraid re­flects a one-sided partisan approach. 
“I’m certainly not saying that I support all the Vice president’s positions,” he said. “but I do find, in the record, that he took account of his catholic faith, even while try­ing to make decisions on legis­lation — that’s often complex in a nation on issues on which the nation is deeply divided.” 
ultimately, Jenkins said he thinks a public servant can ex­emplify what it means to be a catholic leader, regardless of his or her political affiliation. 
“I think it’s important to evaluate, to take account both of that range of [catholic] teachings and take account of the complex realities of our na­tion that is so deeply divided on these issues,” he said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at     kgalioto@nd.edu 

to get married and because they are more active in the la­bor force, they are more likely to have the desire and means to purchase things before marriage. 
brennan said the delayed marriages also have an effect on family formation that in­fluences the market. for ex­ample, women married later in life tend to have kids at a later time, and because they are older, they are more en­trenched in their personal brand and impose this brand on their kids. 
“many brands are finding that they have an opportu­nity to either age up or age down the spectrum because there is a broader embracing of brands across the age spec­trum,” brennan said. 
a variety of additional trends led by the female mar­ket, such as social media and fitness trends, have highlight­ed the increased role of female empowerment in advertising, brennan said. 
“It is positive to see that strength and femininity is be­ing positioned as something powerful in the marketplace,” she said. 
Contact Meghan Sullivan at msulli41@nd.edu 
Prison 
contInued from paGe 1 
incarceration, lessing said. 

“sophisticated prison gangs consolidate control over in­mate life — they provide an entire system of government within prison. they propagate through the prison system and project power onto the streets,” he said. 
Governmental actions and laws targeting both low and high level offenders may have actually made gangs more powerful, lessing said. 
“Increased incarceration rates further the powers of the gangs, and therefore, beyond a certain point, punishment un­dermines state authority,” he said. “mass incarceration and poorly translated gang policies transformed how the gangs were organized and actually made them more powerful.” 
lessing’s research focuses on how incarceration effects the collective gang culture. He said within the prison en­vironment, the stability these gangs can provide can create a more positive environment. 
“everybody wins — prison­ers, guards and politicians,” he said. “a prison guard in brazil told me that his job is easier be­cause of the collectivization.” 
However, with this in­creased of power within pris­ons, gangs also have increased their control outside of the prisons. lessing said the first time social scientists were able to observe the strong power of gangs on the streets was dur­ing a pcc terror attack that shut down são paulo for four days. 
“prisons gangs have a unique ability to control street level drug markets, and this is an unusual thing, because these street level markets are usually extremely fragment­ed,” he said. 
In order to understand gang structure, it is critical to un­derstand why those who are not incarcerated would sup­port gangs, lessing said. 
“thinking about this projec­tion of power, there is this kind of fundamental puzzle: why would people on the street take costly and risky actions on behalf of the leaders?” he said “It’s simple: what you do on the outside, you have to an­swer for on the inside.” 
according to lessing, people on the streets do what the gang wants, even though this activi­ty leads to an increased chance that they will be arrested. If they support the gang, they will be protected in prison — their support for the gang alle­viates the blow if they are ever put in prison, he said. 
“It is the promise of a not-so-bad time in prison, with a higher likelihood of going to prison,” lessing said. “If this is true, prison gangs depend on high incarceration rate. those on the outside need to think they will go back to prison.” 
this ultimately contributes to a changing power struc­ture, both inside and outside of the prison, lessing said. once again, lessing said that there are both positives and negatives to this changing power structure. while it de­creases the power of the state and increases the drug trade outside of prison, lessing said this consolidation and power structure leads to less violence in gang-controlled commu­nities, as there are fewer turf wars. 
“overall, my theory says that if prison gangs are getting more consolidated and incar­ceration rates are increasing, the projection onto the street should increase,” he said. “this will lead to changes in the street level criminal struc­ture and behavior.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at      jwilso35@nd.edu 

paId adVertIsement tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

As an inconsistent South Bend spring breeze rolled through the win­dows, Brian Powers of Frances Luke Accord talked about his band and their upcoming album, tour and South Bend shows over the steady tick of his flash­ers in a black, five-seater car parked illegally in Library Circle. 
Brian Powers and Nicholas Gunty formed Frances Luke Accord dur­ing their senior year at Notre Dame. They played a secret show with fellow Chicago-via-South Bend act Ratboys at Bond Hall that year, along with fre­quent performances at AcoustiCafe and Legends … until they didn’t. 
“We got banned from Legends, ac­tually,” Powers admitted, pulling at the zipper on his worn navy hoodie. Their senior year, the duo opened for Girl Talk at SUB’s now retired B1 Block Party concert series (a lineup that is painful to acknowledge with the recent announcement of The All-American Rejects for this year’s spring show). 
Powers babysat contributing vio­linist Christian Rougeau during Powers’ freshman year at Notre Dame. Although Rougeau was significantly younger than Powers, the two started to play music together. Rougeau’s fam­ily moved to Boston while Powers was still at Notre Dame, but they flew him back to play Girl Talk’s opening set. 
“Since it was his first time back in South Bend after moving, he wanted to invite all his high school buddies to hangout with him — he’s a 17 year-old. The Block Party was 18 and up, so we snuck all of his friends in with our backstage passes. 
“One of his friends walked in the front gate with our backstage pass and the Legends people yelled at us. Then they had the audacity to call us three weeks later to tell us again they were disappointed in us — and that we were banned from Legends for good.” 
With one of two on-campus music venues off limits, the duo turned to South Bend for exposure and playtime. 
“That kinda forced us to do more at Fiddler’s Hearth — we did some house shows. The South Bend music scene was not even close to what it is today. It’s unbelievable to see how much it has blossomed in the last three years, and even though we went to Chicago, we’ve been able to capitalize on it. We’re from South Bend, we went to Notre Dame, we played The Pool a bunch of times — we have that connection. The scene is awesome now and we’re super stoked on it,” Powers said. 
Since quitting their jobs at the end of last summer to tour this fall, Powers and Gunty have been back in South Bend working on their album. 
The band will continue their South Bend music scene ventures at their April 30 LangLab album release party. They plan to play songs from their new album, but the sound will differ from the recorded version. 
“We have different live arrange­ments — mostly because we both play a decent number of instruments but only have two hands. And there’s the crowd interaction, there’s so much that goes into a live performance,” he said. 
“Fluke,” Frances Luke Accord’s de­but full-length album, is set for na­tional release on May 20, but it will be available on CD and vinyl at LangLab on April 30. The physical copies fea­ture artwork by Nicholas Gunty, a Notre Dame Studio Art major with a concentration in painting. With live shows and merchandise making up a large portion of artists’ profits these days, the duo is hoping to get a good showing for the event. 
The band joked about Spotify’s mini­mal returns in a recent Facebook post: “We’re hoping the 0.006 cents per play we make can buy us a candy bar to share by the end of the week …” 
Although the joke brings to light the consequences of today’s music con­sumption norms, Powers doesn’t scorn streaming. 
“I use Spotify, too, because it’s awe­some. It’s tough because the money right now comes from touring; you have to be a live touring act … For me, if I really like an artist, I’m going to listen to them on Spotify — but I’m also going to shell out 30 bucks and buy their vinyl,” he said. 

However, tours — especially the one on which Frances Luke Accord are about to embark in the same car where the interview was conducted — are not a sustainable or even healthy model for profitability. 
“We’re not sleeping in hotels every night, we’re not getting fed well — we’re still in the grind phase. Our mindset is to hopefully tour really hard for 7 or 8 years and kinda see what happens,” he said. 
Powers spoke on the playlists that will accompany them on their drive across the country. 
“Nick and I are both huge suck­ers for ambient music. One of my fa­vorite Pandora stations is the Native American flute station. Listen to that shit. Oh, and if you’re looking for an ambient artist name drop, Steve Roach,” he said. 
Their eclectic instrumental tastes shine in “Fluke”: ambient car music floods the intro to the fittingly named “On The Road” while “Stones I’ve Thrown” features the Native American flute Powers recently bought in Denver. 
“Ultimately we want to play the kind of music we listen to — and we listen to a grab bag of stuff,” Powers said. 
Their range of influences leaves Frances Luke Accord›s new music in a transient dance between worldly ambient, Americana folk and instru­mental. “Fluke” features humming, whistling, snapping and clapping in the same space as samples of a moving train atop dramatic orchestral-esque layering. 
“When you put yourself in a cate­gory, which is what a genre is, you’re absolutely limiting yourself. When people see us play we definitely have a singer-songwriter, folk persona — but we don’t ever want to be labeled just as a folk band,” Powers said. 
Not signed to a record label, Powers and Gunty funded a success­ful Kickstarter for “Fluke,” allowing them to upgrade microphones and equipment for a higher quality sound. However, their self-production still has an endearingly low-key accessibility. 
“I definitely think you get a DIY feel from our recorded music, because it’s made in our apartment. We obviously go and record like a grand piano and drums in a studio, but everything else is recorded in our apartment,” he said. 
The album’s name, “Fluke,” pulled inspiration from their band name and their Chicago-based house concert and video series Fluke Takes — they also don’t want people to take them too se­riously. However, they are more proud of this album than any of their previ­ous work. 
“I think our songwriting process is one of the biggest reasons this al­bum is different than our previous work — and also the reason we feel so strongly about this album. 
“When we first met in college, I was a singer-songwriter and Nick was a singer-songwriter, so we would both write our own songs and then just play on each other’s songs. But for the first time on “Fluke” the writing process was more collaborative. A song’s initial melody always needs to come from one of us — about 50% of the song — but it’s almost always finished together now,” Powers said. 
Powers and Gunty live together, al­lowing them to capitalize on their often spontaneous songwriting inspi­ration and bursts. 
“When you’re not trying, you’ll pick up an instrument and a melody come will come you. You’ll like a little part of it so you decide right then and there, ‘That’s the spark, this needs to be ham­mered out’ — and that’s when the labor really comes in,” he said. 
Powers encourages any aspiring Notre Dame musicians to join a band and give it a shot. 
“the music industry is a tough place to be and, if you’re savvy at pushing your own music, no one’s go­ing to be more committed to the goal of getting your music out there than you are.” 
Frances Luke Accord will be head­lining Lakeside outside Carroll Hall this Saturday at 4:05 p.m. Tickets are $3 presale and $5 at the door. All pro­ceeds benefit The Boys and Girls Club. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                       emcaulif@nd.edu 
OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 

the ideal campus concert 
The Half that didn’t happen 
Susan Zhu 
Graphics editor 

I woke up to snow on april 9. actually, no 
— I woke up to a blizzard. I looked over at the t-shirt and shorts ensemble I had laid out for that morning and felt my stomach drop. for four months I had looked forward to (and dreaded) this day. despite the weather, I threw on two sweatshirts and began the long, cold trek from ryan Hall to stepan center. the atmosphere in stepan the morn­ing of the Holy Half was one of excitement and confusion. the race had already been delayed 15 minutes as the snow continued to pile on the ground, and I had the sinking feeling the organizers would soon announce what everyone in the room was thinking. at 9:10, five minutes before the race was sup­posed to begin, a statement was made that the 12th annual Holy Half was canceled due to potential safety hazards along the race path. 
I never anticipated the sadness I felt as I walked home. I didn’t run a half marathon that morning. I didn’t get to do round two and attempt a new p.r. from last year’s Half. I had planned on running the race every year I attended notre dame, and it was overwhelm­ingly disappointing the weather decided I would be unable to do that. 
I tell my friends I do one cool thing a year, and that cool thing is always the Holy Half. my training plan both years was abhorrent, but I was looking forward to pushing myself for a little under two hours with 1500 other runners. I didn’t pick up running until I came to college and I couldn’t find the mo­tivation to hit the tennis courts every day as I had in high school. as I walked home, I remembered the shared disappointment, as people reflected on months of training and anticipation. some still ran in the snow, but I knew it was something I couldn’t do, as I nearly slipped three times just on the walk over. 
although I didn’t end up running the race, I am still glad I made the goal in december to beat last year’s time. It pushed me on off-days, and kept me going. It was what got me through the last few miles on a long run, and gave me a little bit of purpose in each day. even if I would have a bad day, I wouldn’t have a bad run. I know that the Half is a goal for a lot of people, and even though the majority of the runners didn’t accomplish that goal physically, I still believe they com­pleted it. a canceled race doesn’t negate the hard work and hundreds of miles run during training. there will always be a little leftover sadness for the Half that didn’t happen, but I am still grateful for the way it pushed me to be better than I was and for the purpose it put into every day. as I start my training for the 2017 chicago marathon, I can only hope it doesn’t blizzard in early october. 
Contact Susan Zhu at szhu4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 


this week, sub announced the all-american rejects will play on campus for the annual spring con­cert, setting our middle school hearts aflame — after going years without hearing the classic “dirty little secret,” we relish the chance to once again belt out the lyrics of our former favorite songs. 
apparently some students are immune to the pow­erful force of nostalgia, however, and were less than pleased by the announcement. Here are our editorial board’s recommendations for who should take the stage after the all-american rejects “move along” next weekend: 
Cathy Richardson and the Dropkick Murphys 
now several long months removed from football season, who wouldn’t seize the opportunity to relive those sunny (or not so sunny) football saturday af­ternoons swaying along to richardson’s honey-toned classic, “Here come the Irish,” followed by none other than notre dame’s jarring unofficial theme song, “I’m shipping up to boston”? a match so perfect it had to have been made in heaven, the combination of these two songs embodies the spirit and irrational love for tradition of all true notre dame football fanatics. 
Phil Collins 

what more perfect throwback is there? collins is a throwback artist to all of your throwback childhood disney favorites, reminding you of the blissfully nos­talgic nights you spent at Grandma and Grandpa’s. It’s too perfect, really: as soon as the first notes of any tarzan song echo off the walls of stepan center, ev­eryone will forget they’re college students supposed to be entering the fully adult world in a year or two. 
The cast of “Hamilton” 

rumor has it the core curriculum review committee will issue its final recommendations soon, including one that the university replace the general history requirement with mandatory viewings of “Hamilton,” lin-manuel miranda’s hit musical sensa­tion. nobody wanted to take “the History of ancient Greece” or “the topography of ancient rome” any­way, so why not knock three credits out of the way for the small expense of $20 and your otherwise boring friday night? 
Cher Lloyd, again 

seriously, at this point, notre dame students should be singing “want u back” in cher lloyd’s direction, rather than the other way around. while her concert last year wasn’t the biggest hit in the world, at least her music doesn’t make you relive your eighth grade identity crisis. “with ur love,” a more appropriately-sized venue and playing after someone who isn’t Jesse mccartney, 2016 could finally be the year cher lloyd hits it big at notre dame. 
A cardboard cutout of Kanye West 

while a bit unorthodox, a cardboard cutout of Kanye west is the perfect choice for a campus concert not because of what it can do, but because of what it can’t do. a cardboard cutout can’t cry at your concert the way Jamie lynn spears did. It can’t make you feel uncomfortable about going to college the way shaun white’s band did, or break his wrist skateboarding before the show like drake bell did. It can’t get ar­rested for drug possession like some rumored sub artists (cough, t-pain) did, or cancel on us the way the chainsmokers did. and most importantly, a card­board cutout can’t disappoint us, the way the campus music scene does every show. 
Avril Lavigne 

If we’re going to go with 2000s pop stars, everyone knows avril takes the cake. she even looks exactly the same as she did back in her glory days. everyone can relate to her angsty teenager punk-rock an­thems; what better for a college campus? “sk8r boi,” “Girlfriend” and “complicated” would be huge hits. 
The Treblemakers 

with their juice pouches, copy of “the breakfast club” and those hot guy smiles, the treblemakers from the modern classic “pitch perfect” are an easy choice. with his love for star wars and his adorkable sideburns, benji melted our hearts as he belted out “magic” with his fellow acca-bros. from hitting the high notes in “since u been Gone” and to his sensual take on foreigner’s song “feels like the first time,” Jesse can make you forget that he’s a human being. together, the duo will bring in all the pitches. 
Fall Out Boy 

fob through and through. It’s time to stop belt­ing one song at dorm parties and bring them to the wonderful place that is the stepan center — everyone should be exposed to the fact fall out boy has more songs than “sugar we’re Going down.” 
The von Trapps 

no, not the musical family of seven children, christopher plummer and Julie andrews in the rodgers and Hammerstein classic “the sound music.” now, it’s their grandchildren, a quartet from portland, oregon, who have been touring the country and shar­ing their favorite things and edelweiss with america. sofia, melanie, amanda and august are sure to get everyone on campus singing along in no time. 
Ryan Adams 

no one is hotter than taylor swift right now, so why not book the hottest taylor swift cover artist? substitute sold-out arenas for the intimate atmo­sphere of stepan center and watch adams shine. He lacks the star power of t-swizzle, but give him a stage and adams may yet surprise you. 
The Zetta Bytes and Loretta Modern (the DCOM Hologram) 
dear people who “code for fun” or anyone who has stepped foot in that radiation building: please recre­ate loretta modern from the disney channel original movie (dcom) “pixel perfect.” “phil of the future” did it; there is no reason an engineering department that prides itself on “tech developments that over­shadow 2004 dcom predictions” can’t. also, “a holo­gram from a low-budget television movie that aired 12 years-ago” fits in perfectly with the sci-fi/horror film interior decor of everyone’s favorite geodesic dome. 
Nickelback 

another late-90s rock band with somewhat strange and not-so-meaningful lyrics, nickelback provides something the all-american rejects lack — a strong anti-fan group. bringing nickelback to campus would be a more daring and controversial decision, opening the door for some fun dialogue and classic nickelback jokes. 
Billy Joel 

seeing as his on-campus concert in 1979 went over so well with the university administration, inviting billy Joel back to notre dame would be a no-brainer. It may be a controversial decision, but we would all love to spend $20 to listen to billy Joel sing “only the Good die Young” six times, just like our parents did 37 years ago. 
Colonel Chris Hadfield 
Heard on stations orbiting around the globe, this fighter-pilot-turned-astronaut has spent much of his time missing the earth. His success on the International space station proved that anyone can be successful performing in venues far away from civilization (stepan center, anyone?), and his 2013 recording of david bowie’s “space oddity” was out of this world. down on earth, our down-to-earth rocket man opened a 2014 maple leafs hockey game with canada’s national anthem, “o canada,” reaffirming the fact that everything is better on ice. 

tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Notre Dame for restorative justice 
according to the catechism of the catholic church, punishment for a crime, “in addition to defending public order and protecting people’s safety, has a medicinal purpose: as far as possible, it must contribute to the correction of the guilty party.” In 1980, 32 percent of americans agreed the primary purpose of prison was to rehabilitate, not punish; by 1993, 61 percent of americans felt that prison was a place strictly for punishment. this shift in opinion has filled our prisons with repeat of­fenders, wasted taxpayers’ money, perpetuated racial discrimination and, above all, harmed our communities. the time to shift the model of our justice system is now. 
notre dame for restorative Justice suggests the rem­edy of restorative justice. the theory of restorative justice addresses the needs of the victim, the community and the offenders. while we tend to think first of the needs of the victims and communities that have been harmed, restorative justice reminds us most offenders have needs, as well. to quote Howard Zehr, the pioneer of american restorative justice, “If we are to expect [offenders] to as­sume their responsibilities, to change their behavior, to become contributing members of our communities, restorative justice assumes that these needs must be ad­dressed as well.” 
one key tenet of restorative justice is that “crime is to be viewed as a violation of the individual, rather than just as an offence against the state.” this region of Indiana is already well versed in restorative justice, as the center for community Justice in elkhart launched the first Victim offender reconciliation program (Vorp) in the united states. we have personally seen and experienced restorative justice in practice in south bend through talking circles at rise up academy, reading for life (a program that has recently received attention from the white House and catholic charities), and spending time at dismas House, the transitional housing program here in south bend for individuals recently released from incarceration. 
In addition to our shared humanity that necessitates a more compassionate justice system, the financial dimen­sion of the current justice system demands reform, as our retributive approach is expensive for the community and the taxpayer. the state of Indiana pays tremendous daily costs for juveniles and adults incarcerated in the justice system. alternatively, restorative justice programs, while sometimes expensive to put in place, ensure lower recidi­vism rates and long-term cost effectiveness. ultimately, it is better to invest in community-based initiatives and legislation that focus on the respect and dignity of each person involved in a crime, such as the second chance reauthorization act and the sentencing reform and corrections act of 2015. 
while small scale restorative justice programs do exist throughout Indiana, we are nowhere close to being able to implement them statewide. engaging the humanity of every individual and encouraging an atmosphere of love in the face of hate is necessary, but changing our laws incrementally is also required in order to enable an environment in which restorative justice could be widespread. the second chance act and the sentencing reform act are congress bills on the docket that could direct the legislative environment and public opinion to­ward a more humane, cost-effective approach to justice. 
the second chance act strengthens reentry programs ranging from job training to substance abuse treatment and provides opportunities for behavioral change that would otherwise not be available in the event of incar­ceration. the sentencing reform and corrections act re­pairs the mandatory minimum sentences for prior drug felons, gives judges flexibility in sentencing, broadens prison-based reentry programs and limits solitary con­finement for juveniles. these bills encourage our govern­ment to invest in community-based initiatives, such as dismas House, that seek to break the cycle of crime for the benefit of both the individual and that of society. 
as an advocacy group through the center for social concerns, nd for restorative Justice has reached out to the south bend community to understand how these senate bills, if passed, would impact the local commu­nity. both state institutions and local initiatives are af­fected by the justice system in st. Joseph’s county, and all those to whom we have reached out fully support these two bills. 
restorative justice, in general, has the backing of groups such as the u.s. catholic council of bishops. In their 2000 document, “responsibility, rehabilitation, and restoration: a catholic perspective on crime and criminal Justice,” the usccb wrote, “a catholic ap­proach leads us to encourage models of restorative jus­tice that seek to address crime in terms of the harm done to victims and communities, not simply as a violation of law.” 
are you willing to stand with nd for restorative Justice in supporting the second chance and the sentencing reform acts in hopes of laying the groundwork for a re­storative justice system? we will be communicating their urgency at a meeting with the office of Indiana senator Joe donnelly this week. sign our petition on change. org, “make restorative justice a reality by supporting the second chance & the corrections acts,” to take an active step in making restorative justice a reality in south bend. 
peace, 
Evelyn Bauman 
senior 
Sofia Piecuch 
senior 
Seamus Ronan 
senior 
Adrianna Duggan 
sophomore 
Kelsey Feldmeier 
sophomore april 13 

don’t stand with the oppressor 
on april 8, notre dame’s center for civil and Human rights (ccHr) hosted George deek, a representative of Israel’s foreign ministry. deek’s narrative denied Israel’s relentless attempts to rebut the rights of the palestinians, and it discredited the palestinian struggle for justice and equality. during his talk, he presented Israel as a bastion of diversity in the middle east and the world. the idyllic picture deek painted ignores the systematic discrimi­nation and oppression both inside Israel (which is 20 percent palestinian) and under Israel’s occupation of the palestinian territories (of approximately 3.5 million palestinians). 
while deek’s picture is, at best, whitewashing hu­man rights abuses and, at worst, justifying them, the university is a place of divergent views and dialogue, and may invite a variety of voices. However, we are very con­cerned that the event was co-sponsored by the ccHr, which claims in its mission statement that “in all of its ef­forts, the center stands in solidarity with the oppressed, the afflicted, and the vulnerable and seeks to secure their human rights and the conditions for their flourishing.” 
on friday, the ccHr did not stand in solidarity with the oppressed, the afflicted and the vulnerable. It did not stand with the bedouins of the negev, Israeli citi­zens whose own government forcefully evicted them from their lands; or with the palestinian families living in east Jerusalem, whose homes the Israeli government demolished; or with the farmers in the cremisan valley, whose 2,000 year old olive groves Israel tore up and re­placed with a ‘security barrier.’ It did not stand with the palestinian children who are tortured in Israeli military detention. In short, the ccHr failed to fulfill its mission. 
George deek exploits his minority “arab-Israeli” identity and claims the way forward is for arabs to be both grateful for their Israeli identity and proud of their arab heritage. He blames palestinians for not assimi­lating, while denying Israel’s methodical suppression of palestinian arab identity — making them second-class citizens. during the 1948 war, Israel censored palestinian narratives by confiscating approximately 60,000 palestinian books, and, between 1967 and 1993, it was illegal to fly the palestinian flag. the term arab-Israeli, which deek uses, is yet another construct of Israel to further erase palestinian identity. 
In his presentation, deek did not represent the palestinian people; he represented the state of Israel, jus­tifying its apartheid-style policies against palestinians. deek promotes a discourse of political propaganda that denies Israel’s involvement in violations of human rights, war crimes and crimes against humanity that have been exposed by several united nations inquiry missions and by the International court of Justice. 
over the past few weeks, a group of over 50 notre dame activists hailing from ccHr’s program in International Human rights law, the Kroc Institute for International peace studies, the law school, faculty and various phd, master’s and undergraduate students have unified around their shared investment in human rights. this pro-Justice nd group wrote a letter to the acting director of the ccHr and held a meeting with her and her colleague raising their concerns — which were dismissed. on april 8, the group stood in the freez­ing rain to hand out flyers, meet student passersby with factual information and display a wooden replica of the separation wall on which they painted smaller versions of real graffiti art from palestine. 
the ccHr has failed in its mandate to “equip human rights lawyers and other students to become champions of human rights.” by sponsoring an Israeli diplomat who completely ignores Israel’s illegal occupation and its devastating effects on palestinians, the ccHr failed to educate the campus community, and instead served as a propaganda tool to further Israel’s political agenda. this talk gave volume to only one side of an already asymmet­rical conflict and silenced the voices of the oppressed, afflicted and vulnerable. we worry this sets a dangerous precedent for future events. 
for more information on Israel’s subjugation of the palestinian people, check out IfamericansKnew.org and JewishVoiceforpeace.org. If you would like to get involved to ensure notre dame upholds its mission state­ment to cultivate “a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many ... to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice,” please email humanrights. peace.nd@gmail.com 
In the words of paulo freire (which were displayed on the pro-Justice nd separation wall), “If we wash our hands of the conflict between the powerful and the powerless, we side with the powerful - we don’t remain neutral.” 
Kelsey Jones 
senior 
Marie Klassen 
junior 
Jonathan Brenneman 
senior april 12 



CROSSWORD | wIll sHortZ 

JUST ADD WATER | JoHn roddY & erIc carlson 

FLING BY SPRING | rIleY mccurrIe 



SUDOKU | tHe mepHam Group 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | euGenIa last 
Happy birthday: emotions will play a big role in the way you handle relationships. don’t be too quick to judge or make assumptions. It’s important to work on building up your confidence, but don’t worry if you fall short of perfection. be patient if you face a negative encounter, and you will be successful in the end. focus on yourself, not trying to change others. Your numbers are 5, 16, 24, 27, 31, 38, 46. 
birthday baby: You are strong, disciplined and sensitive. You are impulsive and spirited. 
arIes (march 21-april 19): an observation you make will encourage you to make an appealing change to your image. Your new look will give you a professional advantage and will also help to boost your confidence. 


taurus (april 20-may 20): a home improvement plan doesn’t have to cost money. move things around, recycle or make trades for the things you need. use your imagination and you will impress someone you love. plan to have a garage sale or donate things you don’t need. 


GemInI (may 21-June 20): You may feel like partying or letting temptation lead to indulgence, but before you head down that road, consider your health and reputation. look for alternative things to do, such as making gradual physical improvements. 

cancer (June 21-July 22): don’t get flustered by what someone else does. stick to your gameplan and strategize to get the most out of whatever you do. an unusual opportunity to alter the way you live looks promising. take a leap of faith. 


leo (July 23-aug. 22): be inventive and find ways to cut your costs. nothing is out of reach if you make prudent adjustments once you set your priorities straight and focus on your objective. You can achieve your dream if you are willing to make sacrifices. 

VIrGo (aug. 23-sept. 22): don’t hang out with demanding people or those who may try to dump responsibilities on you. take part in activities that allow you to explore new interests and people. You’ll make an unusual connection that will motivate you to improve. 


lIbra (sept. 23-oct. 22): personal and professional gains can be made if you are willing to make a move. check out your options and consider a partnership or educational pursuit that can lead to better options and higher earning potential. romance is featured. 


scorpIo (oct. 23-nov. 21): analyze what you are up against and who you are dealing with, and you’ll come up with a unique plan that will help you outmaneuver anyone who may interfere. Join forces with someone who offers consistency as well as inspiration. 


saGIttarIus (nov. 22-dec. 21): don’t be fooled by what others do. concentrate on making your assets grow or cutting corners so you can take part in something that will bring you joy. positive changes at home will lead to an entertaining and romantic evening. 


caprIcorn (dec. 22-Jan. 19): Joint ventures must be handled with caution. look over agreements carefully and negotiate on your own behalf. don’t leave anything to chance or trust anyone to take care of the matters that can influence your future. protect against emotional manipulation. 


aQuarIus (Jan. 20-feb. 18): take a break and distance yourself from a situation that has been puzzling you. a fresh look at an old idea will give you the answer you’ve been looking for. make plans to do something special with someone you love. 


pIsces (feb. 19-march 20): protect against exhaustion and injury. If you need to take a break, do so. It’s important to set a pace you can handle when pursuing something of interest, pleasure or concern. avoid indulgence and overreacting. do not waste your five star day on petty worries, petty people or tom petty.  


JUMBLE | daVId HoYt and Jeff KnureK 

to
 receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserVer.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | tHe obserVer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Amateurism is a false ideal 

Zach Klonsinski 
assistant managing editor 
dear ncaa, 
let me say this as simply as I possibly can: 
amateurism. Is. a. sham. 
at no point in history has amateurism, what you call “a bedrock principle of col­lege athletics and the ncaa” been a thing. 
at least, not one you want to be associated with. 
allow me to provide a brief history lesson: 
most people think ama­teurism began with the original olympic games, the ones that began in 776 b.c. in Greece. 
wrong. 
You see, there were no monetary prizes awarded at the games, but the winners at olympia won the eternal favor of the gods, a prize beyond any monetary com­pensation. additionally, the olympics were just one of a series of games held between the various Greek city-states (corinth, for example, host­ed a version), all of which awarded amphorae of olive oil, each worth a lot of mon­ey, for winning. 
many city-states treated their returning heroes like gods, too: olympic champi­ons in athens, for example, received the equivalent of free room and board for the rest of their lives in addi­tion to prizes bestowed upon them by the city-state and leadership roles in the army. Historians and archaeolo­gists have even discovered evidence for a form of free agency in ancient Greece: certain smaller city-states, for example, won a dispro­portionate amount of the events during prosperous times and none during less favorable conditions, and names appear as winning different events for different city-states in consecutive years. 
so, no, the Greeks weren’t amateurs. In fact, as one of my professors told us in class, they probably would have laughed at the very notion. 
so where did this ideal of the ‘amateur’ come from then? 
You see, in the 19th cen­tury, english (and, to a lesser degree, american) elites de­cided they wanted to engage in sports on a more competi­tive level, organizing official competitions, sporting clubs and tournaments to prove their athletic superiority over each other, but especially over the working classes. 
one wrench in that plan: the working classes, many who engaged in jobs that strengthened and molded them physically from sunrise to sunset, often could beat elites. 
that was a problem be­cause elites were supposed to be so much better than those who toiled all day in the dirty streets and factories that losing wasn’t something they could risk. 
so elites simply invented the idea of amateurism: no one could get paid for their athletic performances, whether that be in prize money or sponsors support­ing efforts to train for and/or travel to competitions. 
since working class house­holds needed everyone to work from sunrise to sun­set in order to, you know, survive, they couldn’t train or take time off for sport­ing ventures. amateurism worked like a charm for the elites — they had most of the organized sports to themselves. 
even the modern-day olympic games — which, thankfully, don’t have that same amateur myth sur­rounding them anymore 
— were founded in a false amateuristic sense by baron pierre de coubertin, a frenchman who idolized the british elite’s system of ex­clusionary sports. 
and so began the idea of playing for the love of the game. 
there you have it ncaa. one of your “bedrock principle[s]” is based in clas­sist, elitist thinking dating back to the less-than-amaz­ing british empire. I hope that makes you feel good about yourselves. 
I would love to say that the class barrier was com­pletely broken down over the 20th century (and then the race barrier … and then the gender barrier) and that everything is now perfectly equal and the sporting world just holds hands in a circle as it sings “Kumbaya.” I really would love to say that. 
unfortunately, I know I can’t. and the ncaa is one of the reasons. 
don’t get me wrong, you are just one of the many problems that still exist in today’s sporting world. 
but please, enough with this “amateurism” thing. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish travel to Greensboro for acc tournament 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 

notre dame will face nine top-50 teams at the acc cham­pionship in Greensboro, north carolina this weekend, as the Irish look to build on their fifth place finish at the bryan national collegiate. 
friday morning marks the first tee at sedgefield country club, a course that also serves as an annual pGa tour site. Irish head coach susan Holt said she has been looking forward to this weekend as good weather is ex­pected and the course is one the team has prepared for. 
“unfortunately, the weather at home hasn’t been coopera­tive,” Holt said. “but we’re hav­ing good practice time here. the greens are a lot faster than they have been the last few years. our preparation really started two weeks ago when we went to wake forest. that golf course is very similar to this golf course, same terrain and grass, which is such an important factor in our game. the wake forest tournament was really good preparation for here.” 
the team is set to break the previous school stroke average mark for the fourth time in the past six seasons with a 294.65 average, and looks to win its first conference title since 2013 when it won the big east. the Irish have placed fifth and sixth at the acc championship in the last two years and Holt said the acc has presented tough competition for her squad. 
“right now there are ten of the twelve acc teams ranked in the top 50,” Holt said. “there’s only one other conference that has as many and that’s the pac-12. It’s super competitive. nationally we’re right at the top of the coun­try as far as competitiveness.” 
no. 5 duke, no. 18 Virginia and no. 20 florida state are among the most serious oppo­nents notre dame will face at the tournament. the Irish lineup includes three freshmen and a senior captain which makes this team stand out for Holt. 
“we are much more young in our lineup,” Holt said. “we do have three players who haven’t seen this golf course until this week. I thought that the ad­justments the freshmen made throughout the round were good. talia [campbell] and Jordan [ferreira] have played on this course before and they have some experience, which should definitely play to their advantage.” 
senior captain talia campbell leads the team with a career-low 73.27 stroke average, the 10th­best in the conference this year. campbell has been the top fin­isher for the Irish in all three of her last conference champion­ships, and Holt believes she has the skill to do it again. 
“talia’s just a really solid player for us,” Holt said. “she’s a good ball striker; she hits a lot of qual­ity golf shots and this golf course definitely demands that. she’s playing well right now, so if she can just get her putter going and capitalize off her good shots, I think she’ll do just fine.” 
emma albrecht, Isabella dilisio, and maddie rose Hamilton will also play for the Irish, all hailing from a freshmen class ranked third in the nation by Golfstat. Holt said she has faith that the whole team will rise to the challenge at this peak of the season. 
“this is a very challenging course,” Holt said. “It’s a champi­onship tour-quality golf course. It should be a real battle, but we’ve got good players and a good chance. we’re excited to see how it all plays out.” 
the Irish will tee off in Greensboro on friday morning for the three-day tournament. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 

MLB | natIonals 6, braVes 2 
Harper hits 100th HR 
Associated Press 

wasHInGton — after con­necting for his first grand slam and 100th career home run, bryce Harper is already think­ing ahead to bigger milestones. His manager is invoking names like michael Jordan and wayne Gretzky. 
Harper smashed a panel on an electronic signboard with his slam in the third inning, and the washington nationals beat the braves 6-2 on thursday to give atlanta its ninth straight loss to start the season. 
Harper is the eighth-youngest player to hit 100 homers at 23 years and 181 days old. Harper hit 42 of those homers last season while winning his first nl mVp award despite the nationals fall­ing short of the playoffs. 
He has three home runs this season in eight games under new manager dusty baker, who is already impressed with Harper’s ability in the clutch. thursday’s shot was just the lat­est, giving the nationals a 4-1 lead after braves starter Julio teheran had breezed through two innings. 
“In every sport, guys (that) are considered the great ones, michael Jordan, Gretzky, Jim brown, Joe montana, they have a flair for the dramatic,” baker said. “and I told him when he hit that home run, ‘man, you’ve got a flair for the dramatic.’” 
Harper said the benchmark hadn’t weighed on his mind. 
“I think if you’re worried about 100, you don’t want any higher than that,” Harper said. 
the braves and twins, who fell to 0-9 earlier thursday, are the first major league teams to lose nine in a row to start a season since detroit in 2003, according to stats. atlanta’s worst start came in 1988, when it went 0-10. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR SALE 

Bible For Sale: First Catholic Bible Printed in America by Mathew Carey, 1790. Very Rare. Full Brown Leather. Good Condition. Approximately 45 known copies. $30,000. Call for details. 207-299-3962 
FOR RENT 

1 BR fully furnished includes large sunroom and laundry on 3 acres walking distance to ND. Heat and water included. Month-to-month lease. $650 + $50 electric. Call 574-271-7205 
WANTED 

TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY--SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-lov­ing, reliable gal to travel to beautiful Jackson Hole WY from end of May/early June to early August as our live-in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl.com 
Need a babysitter for Sep 9th eve when Domer family in for a football weekend. Contact info @greymattersintl.com 
 Go outside and enjoy the sunshine. 

M Tennis 
contInued from paGe 12 
put up the first singles point on court no. 1; shortly after, broadus put up another one on court no. 6. 
Hagar was defeated in a tight 7-6(6), 7-6(5) match, making the score 4-2. one more match was needed to win the game for notre dame, and senior alex lawson secured it with a 6-4, 6-7(5), and 6-7(6) win. senior Kenneth sabacinski added another win, making the final score 5-2. Irish head coach ryan sachire said he was proud of the way his team played agains the top-ranked tar Heels. 
“obviously, last friday night was a great night for our pro­gram,” sachire said. “beating a program that we respect, like north carolina, is al­ways special and I couldn’t be prouder to see our seniors step up in their last home match and lead our team to victory.” 
to knock off north carolina, sachire said playing aggres­sively and staying calm were key factors for his team. 
“the biggest reasons why we were successful were: one, we didn’t get discouraged when they made runs at us and we were in adverse situ­ations and two, we had the courage and confidence to play aggressive tennis, go for our shots, and trust ourselves in the biggest moments,” sachire said. 
to add to notre dame’s mo­mentum, lawson was named the acc co-player of the week on tuesday. His perfor­mance in his singles match, staying strong through two tie-breakers and coming back from deficits to clinch the game for the team win, was what got him the title, sachire said, adding the accolade was 
well-deserved.  
“alex  [lawson]  is  a very  
hard  worker  and  has  im­ 
proved  so  much  at  notre  

dame,” sachire said. “He is as invested in our program as anyone who has played here, and he hast truly earned ev­erything that he has got­ten. as a coach, it’s great to see players with that kind of attitude get rewarded for their effort and dedication. I couldn’t be prouder of alex.” 
In regards to this upcoming game, sachire said the team plans to build on the momen­tum it currently has. 
“our goal is to build on [last week’s] performance and play with the same mindset on sunday against nc state. we expect it to be a great match,” sachire said. 
on sunday, the Irish will go on the road to raleigh, north carolina to face north carolina state in their last game of the regular season. the game will be played in the J.w. Isenhour tennis center and is schedule to start at 1:00 pm. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 
W Tennis 
contInued from paGe 12 

during the singles competi­tion. after losing her first set 6-2, broda won her match by winning the final two sets 7-5, 1-0(7) on court no. 4. miller also earned a come-from­behind victory. — after losing her first set 6-1, the norcross, Georgia native emerged vic­torious on court no. 2 by win­ning the final two sets 6-3, 6-1. on court no. 1, Gleason won her first set 6-2 before being bested 6-3 in the second set. the score of the third and de­ciding set was 1-0(6) in favor of Gleason. 
closs, fennelly, and chong did not have the same suc­cess as their teammates, how­ever. closs lost her match in straight sets 6-3, 7-5 on court no. 3. fennelly was met with the same fate on court no. 5, losing 6-0, 6-4. chong lost a close first set 7-6(0) before be­ing bested in the second set 6-1 on court no. 6. 
In the doubles competition, broda and miller emerged victorious in their match, 6-3, while the teams of Gleason and fennelly and closs and Vrabel were both bested by scores of 6-3 on courts no. 1 and 2, respectively. 
Irish head coach Jay louderback said his team was close to winning each of their last two games but fell just short. He said he also liked how they responded in prac­tice this weekend, and if his 


KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 

Irish senior Quentin Monaghan looks to recover during Notre Dame’s 5-2 victory over Duke on Feb. 28 at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
players keep it up, they will have a good chance of win­ning their final two regular season matches. 
“we have had a lot of tight 4-3 matches and have been on the wrong end of the score lately,” louderback said. “I have been so impressed with our team and how they have approached each practice focused and with maximum effort. I feel like our energy in our matches has been very good and, if we continue to put forth that effort and en­ergy, it will pay off in our final weekend of matches leading up the acc tournament.” 
entering the weekend’s matchups, louderback said his team feels good about their chances in both match­es and will be comfortable 
paId adVertIsement 
playing on its home court on friday. He also said his team will be ready for the quick turnaround on sunday. 
“we are getting comfortable with the playing at home on friday and a sunday match on the road,” louderback said. 
these will be the Irish’s last two matches before next week’s acc tournament at the cary tennis center in cary, north carolina. the five-day tournament begins next wednesday. 
friday’s match against the Hokies (14-7, 7-5 acc) is scheduled to start at 3:30 p.m. while sunday’s match with the cavaliers (12-9, 7-5 acc) is set at 10 a.m. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 



ndsmcobserVer.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | tHe obserVer 

W Lax 
contInued from paGe 12 
defenders they’ve seen ei­ther gender — that was my favorite.” 
In addition to the senior day festivities and a chance to avenge last year’s lopsid­ed loss to duke, saturday’s showdown also gives the Irish a chance to get back in the win column; after start­ing the season 9-1, notre dame is a winner of just one of its last four games, the last outing being a 17-12 loss at no. 16 northwestern on sunday. coming off that loss, Halfpenny said her squad made some changes to its approach in practice this week. 
“we’ve gotten a little bit more serious — we’ve held ourselves accountable a lit­tle more,” Halfpenny said. “I’m seeing extreme own­ership over what’s going on here and I’ve just heard us talking about things a little bit more, strategically and cheering each other on and championing the good things that are going on and just getting back to us.” 
However, Halfpenny not­ed that notre dame has still kept things upbeat this week 
— because that’s the iden­tity of her team. 
“we’ve still had fun; this team doesn’t know how to not have fun,” Halfpenny said. “they’re a loose group, they’re a silly group, they have great leadership with that exact personal­ity in their seniors and their juniors.” 
Halfpenny said this week was about working on stick work, as well as limit­ing turnovers and ensur­ing each player has “higher standard individually,” but 
paId adVertIsement 


noted the Irish aren’t going to be flawless. 
“It’s okay to make mistakes and not be perfect, but what it’s not okay to do is lower our standards for ourselves,” Halfpenny said. “ … we’re gonna shoot for perfection, but I never think we’ll get there — I don’t think any program that’s aiming for a championship is perfect.” 
and if the Irish are going to be successful saturday, Halfpenny thinks answer­ing “yes” to four questions would be the key. 
“did we play together? did we play fast? did we play aggressive? did we play passionate today? alright, things are gonna work out for us,” she said. 
while the Irish play their fair share of highly-ranked opponents both inside and 

paId adVertIsement 
out of acc play, the extra level of importance that comes with a conference game adds motivation for notre dame. 
“realistically, having just the opportunity to go out against a top-ranked oppo­nent and knowing it matters is even bigger,” Halfpenny said. “ … [It] absolutely gives us some extra motivation to have extreme ownership and be ultimately focused on our main key to the game, which is limiting our turn­overs and really balancing possession.” 
while it’s senior day for the Irish, the most prolific scorers in the game should both be back when the two teams meet next season 
— sophomore attack Kyra Harney leads the blue devils offense with 38 goals in 14 outings this season, while Irish junior attack cortney fortunato’s 44 goals tie her for seventh-most nationally. 
If notre dame is victori­ous saturday, it will mark the first time since joining the league the Irish would finish an acc slate above .500 — and if results fall their way, they could finish as high as the no. 3 seed in the acc tournament. 
first draw between the Irish and blue devils is scheduled for noon saturday at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
Softball 
contInued from paGe 12 
Karley wester legged out an infield single that scored a run to push the Irish lead to five. 
the butler bats couldn’t get anything going against rhodes, who gave up only two hits in five innings pitched and struck out a total of 12 bat­ters. sophomore pitcher Katie beriont entered the game in relief of rhodes in the sixth in­ning and did not give up a sin­gle hit to preserve the shutout and the victory for the Irish. 
Karley wester finished the game 2-for-4 with two rbI’s, sullivan finished 1-for-1 with two key rbI’s, and both se­nior first baseman micaela arizmendi and sophomore shortstop morgan reed fin­ished 1-for-3 with a run scored. senior second baseman carly piccinich finished the game 2-for-2 with a run scored, while freshman catcher maddie mccracken scored two runs. rhodes improved her record to 13-4 on the year after giv­ing up only two hits and strik­ing out 12 of the 16 batters she faced on 97 pitches. 
after the game, Irish head coach deanna Gumpf had high praise for sullivan, and labeled her pinch-hit double in the fourth the turning point in the game. 
“we had two runners on base and she smoked the ball up the middle and I think that was the difference in the game,” Gumpf said. “I think that changed everything. all of a sudden [the game] went into our hands and we weren’t going to let up. the hard­est thing to do in the game is to come in and pinch hit and pinch hit well and she’s proba­bly one of the best in the coun­try doing that, so I give her a lot of credit.” 
Gumpf also spoke highly of rhodes’s performance in the circle. 

“I think our pitching did a great job,” Gumpf said. “butler is a good hitting team and we did a great job against them. ... when [rhodes’] changeup is on, she’s so tough to hit be­cause it makes all of her pitch­es better.” 
despite the victory, Gumpf expressed a desire for her bat­ters to be more aggressive against opposing pitchers ear­ly in their at-bats. 
“attacking early in the count,” Gumpf said. “I asked the team [after the game] what they think we can do a little bit early in the game and they said attack early which is what I wanted them to say, and I told them that I was really proud of the way they played de­fense and I thought that carly piccinich had a great game, and Kimmy sullivan had a great game, and the pitching staff had a great game.” 
the Irish’s will be back in ac­tion this weekend when they travel to blacksburg, Virginia, to take on conference oppo­nent Virginia tech in a three-game series that starts with a doubleheader saturday. Gumpf said her team will have to be ready to face Virginia tech’s tough pitchers and play a good team game overall. 
“they’re a really good team, and they start really strong on the mound,” Gumpf said. “we’ve got to play good soft­ball. If we play good softball we’re going to be fine.” 
Gumpf said getting off to a good start and playing consis­tent throughout the game will be important for her squad all weekend. 
“the key is consistency and attacking early,” Gumpf said. “we’ve got to keep their hitters in the park, we’ve got to attack early, and we’ve got to play consistent.” 
the Irish and the Hokies (21­21, 10-5 acc) are set to begin play saturday at noon. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 



Irish junior center fielder Karley Wester loads up to swing during Notre Dame’s 5-0 win over Butler on Thursday night. 

tHe obserVer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 5, butler 0 
Rhodes, Notre Dame shut out Bulldogs at home 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
It was the allie rhodes show thursday night as no. 20 notre dame shut out butler, 5-0, at melissa cook stadium. 
the game was a pitching duel for much of the first three and a half innings, with the senior rhodes and the butler staff combining to al­low just two total hits. the Irish (29-6, 6-3 acc) lineup got going in the bottom of the third inning. during that frame, junior centerfielder Karley wester scored a run­ner due to a fielding error by butler. the next at-bat fresh­man left fielder ali wester plated another runner on a sacrifice fly to extend the notre dame lead to two. 
the next inning, junior Kimmy sullivan pinch hit with two runners on base and ripped a double into center field to score two Irish run­ners and extend the lead to 4-0. later in the inning, 
see softball PAGE 11 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish to play duke on senior day 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
needless to say, no. 10 notre dame has plenty of reasons to be motivated heading into saturday’s home showdown with no. 13 duke. It’s a return to confer­ence play for the Irish (10-4, 3-3 acc), where the squad can pick up its best-ever acc finish; a return to arlotta stadium for the first time since march 26 and senior day for the program and a chance to enact revenge on a blue devils (9-5, 4-1 acc) squad that won last season’s contest 17-3. 
“this is an opportunity for our team to have the best acc finish we’ve had yet. I think that’s motivating,” Irish head coach christine Halfpenny said. “It’s senior day; that’s motivating. It’s duke; that’s motivating. they gave us a healthy hand­ful of humble pie last year when we visited them and that is not lost on my seniors and juniors and sophomores at all.” 

senior day means it’s an opportunity for notre dame to honor its graduating play­ers set to play their penulti­mate regular-season game at arlotta stadium — no. 5 usc visits monday — with graduate student defender and tewaaraton award con­tender barbara sullivan the most notable honoree. 
“I think that specifically for me, [sullivan’s] been synonymous with notre dame lacrosse,” Halfpenny said. “she’s been here since I got here — now in her fifth year, she’s really been some­thing else of a player for us. she’s been everything that you want a competitor and a leader to be. while next to her name you see ‘defender,’ she’s just an all-around la­crosse player, all-around athlete. 
“I’ve heard some of the most impressive comments about barbara sullivan this year from all different kinds of coaches and lax brains ... saying she’s one of the best 
see w lacrosse PAGE 11 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

ND looks to snap losing streak 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
looking to shake off a three-match losing streak, notre dame is set for the fi­nal weekend of the regular season. 
the Irish will participate in two crucial conference matches as they take on Virginia tech at home friday afternoon at the courtney tennis center and then travel to charlottesville, Virginia to face Virginia on sunday morning at the snyder tennis complex. 
the Irish (10-11, 4-8 acc) are coming off of a tough weekend where they dropped two straight 4-3 home decisions to confer­ence opponents clemson and no. 16 Georgia tech. during friday’s matchup, the Irish were able to claim two victories in the singles competition. sophomore brooke broda won her match 6-1, 6-3 on court no. 4. and on court no. 6, freshman rachel chong emerged vic­torious 6-1, 6-2. from there, though, it was all clemson (10-7, 8-4 acc). Irish sopho­more allison miller lost her match 6-2, 6-2 on court no. 2, while on court no. 5, ju­nior Jane fennelly came up short in a 7-6(8), 6-4 deci­sion. on court no. 1, senior Quinn Gleason was defeated 6-2, 7-6(7). the other Irish singles loss was junior mary closs, who won the first set 6-3 before being bested in the last two sets 6-4, 7-5 on court no. 3. 

In the doubles competi­tion, the team of Gleason and fennelly won 6-4 on court no. 1. the teams of se­nior Julie Vrabel and closs came out of their match with a 6-4 victory on court no. 2. on court no. 3, broda and miller were tied 6-6 before the match was discontinued. 
on sunday, the Irish split decisions with the Yellow Jackets (15-6, 10-2 acc) 
see w tennIs PAGE 10 
MEN’S TENNIS 

squad carries momentum into final contest of season 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
notre dame will enter the last match of the season against north carolina state with momentum. 
last friday, the Irish (13­12, 5-6 acc) celebrated a successful senior night. not only did the seniors take home a win, the team upset the no. 1 ranked team in the country, north carolina 5-2. It was the first time notre dame had defeated a no. 1 team since 1992. 
the Irish had an early lead against the tar Heels (22­3, 9-3 acc) with two upset victories by juniors eddy covalschi and Josh Hagar and senior nicolas montoya and freshman Grayson broadus in order to secure the doubles point. the sin­gles matches were close, as every match went to two tiebreakers or a third set. senior Quentin monaghan 
see m tennIs PAGE 10 





