
The independenT newspaper serving noTre dame and sainT mary’s 


ND introduces diversity, inclusion director 
Alumna Pamela Nolan Young to serve in newly created position in the Office of the Provost 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
Faculty members welcomed pamela nolan young, who was appointed earlier this month to the newly created role of director of academic diversity and inclusion, at a forum Thursday night in mcKenna hall. young, provost Tom burish and several assistant provosts spoke about diversity and an­swered questions from faculty members. 
burish said the forum was about “big things,” such as the faculty climate on campus for inclusion and diversity. 
“The recent focus on this topic started with the faculty experience survey, which was a recommendation of women faculty that came to see me a couple of years ago,” he said. 
“They suggested we do a sur­vey so that all faculty could speak about their experiences at notre dame. it was a construc­tive, positive conversation. They were there to find solutions.” 
young will be in charge of coordinating the university’s diversity and inclusion efforts, specifically regarding the fac­ulty climate. 
“i’ve had three passions in my life: They are education, social justice and my faith,” she said. “as a law student in the late 1980s, i never imag­ined that those passions would evolve into a career path known as a diversity and inclusion practitioner. 
“i’m here to be a resource for deans, for department chairs, for faculty, for students and for 
see diversiTy PAGE 4 

OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 



‘Disability is not the whole of who you are’ 
By CATHERINE OWERS AND HALEIGH EHMSEN 
senior news writers 
Editor’s note: This is the fifth day in a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s story focuses on the so­cial impact of disabilities at the College and University. 
For students with dis­abilities, the university and college provide notetakers, extended test time and ac­cessible dorm rooms, among other resources. 
but the impact of dis­abilities extends beyond the classroom and the residence hall, and the sara bea center for students with disabilities and the disability resource office cannot solve all the challenges that come with everyday social interactions for those students. 
elizabeth anthony, a se­nior with autoimmune con­ditions including lupus and celiac disease, says the ac­companying chronic fatigue has impacted her social relationships. 
“Just because it feels so stu­pid to always say you’re tired, but when you have chronic fatigue it’s not really some­thing that you can just ex­plain to other people. going out for me is just not really an option, because i can’t drink, i cannot stay up past mid­night — it just doesn’t work for me,” she said. “and try­ing to explain that to people, and then trying to still be engaged in social things. my friends have been great, but it’s changed our relationship a lot, just in what i’m able to do.” 
anthony said she has felt that a number of times throughout her career at notre dame, she has had to choose between friends or school work. 
“so you know a lot of times, you’ll see things that say, ‘you can have a social life or sleep or good grades — but not all three’? and i think that’s true for every notre dame stu­longer a choice,” she said. 

grace agolia, a junior who is deaf and uses a cochlear implant, says because her disability is an invisible one, she has to constantly remind people of effective commu­nication strategies, such as speaking with an appropriate volume. 
“in situations with back­ground noise, it’s very hard. i often feel lost, and i have to turn to the person next to me and say, ‘what was that?’ and people can get very tired of doing that, and i understand that’s annoying,” she said. 
when eating in the dining hall, agolia said she always attempts to position herself to hear as many people at the table as she can. 
“even just people like diag­onally from me, just across can be really hard to hear. because south dining hall can be really loud — north is better in terms of acoustics because it has car­peting. south dining hall has 
dent, but for me sleep is no see disabiliTy PAGE 4 
smc student, professor present virus research 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 

saint mary’s junior brianna Kozemzak and assistant profes­sor of math and computer sci­ence dr. beth wolf presented their student independent study research (sisTar) project titled “analyzing the effect of delay in discrete stochastic models and an application to mumps epidemics” to faculty and stu­dents Thursday. 
The pair started their re­search in may 2015, studying recent mumps outbreaks in the national hockey league (nhl) as well as a variety of outbreaks in the indianapolis area, Kozemzak said. 
“The [indiana state department of health] is pub­lishing weekly updates of con­firmed cases,” Kozemzak said. “as of now there are 81 confirmed cases.” 
Kozemzak said the mumps are a single-stranded rna virus which can be spread through re­spiratory secretions. also known as parotitis, systems include in­flammation of the parotid gland located in the cheeks, headaches, fatigue and body aches. 
according to Kozemzak, due to modern medical practices, the mumps are no longer fatal. symptom onsets typically last 17 days on average, after being in­fected, Kozemzak said. however, about one third of the population can be asymptomatic. 
“The rate from which someone gets sick depends on the num­ber of exposed and infected,” Kozemzak said. 
in order to do their research, the pair used mathematical modeling to make predictions regarding people infected by the mumps. 
“we’d like to be able to say, on average, how many people are going to get sick, what the 
see mumps PAGE 4 

news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 men’s lacrosse PAGE 12 nd women’s lacrosse PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Kayla mullen                         cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 


Where is the quietest place around campus? 

Brendan Laughlin 

Haley Adams 
junior 
junior 
duncan hall 
howard hall 
“Feve on a Friday.” 
“The grotto.” 


Chris Daniel 
junior 
duncan hall 

“The walk back from stepan after a test.” 



Jackson Hignite 
freshman 
sorin college 
“bond hall library.” 


Kennedy Ricci 
junior 
duncan hall 

“north dining hall. no one goes there.” 



Jake Wittenberg 
junior st. edward’s hall 
“hip-hop night.” 

(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 


Want your event included here? 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 


ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Holi Celebration Fisher Regatta Basilica Mass Irish Rebellion Islamism in the 
Systems & Web Administrators 

North Quad Saint Mary’s Lake Basilica of the Sacred Exhibit Former Soviet Union 
(574) 631-8839 

5:15p.m. Noon Heart Hesburgh Library Hesburgh Center Policies Celebrating the Watch students in 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. 12:30 p.m.- 2 p.m. 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 

festival of colors and homemade boats sail Sunday Mass with the Information about the Lecture sponsored by 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 

the arrival of spring. across the lake. Liturgical Choir. 1916 Easter Rising. the Kellogg Institute. 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 


“As You Like it” SUB Spring Concert: “As You Like it” Student Recital Snite Salon Series 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

DeBartolo Performing All-American Rejects DeBartolo Performing Little Theatre Snite Museum of Art 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the Arts Center Stepan Center Arts Center Noon - 1 p.m. 5 p.m.- 5:45 p.m. majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. 2:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Performance by Join students, faculty 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 

World premiere, based Tickets in LaFortune Opera based on students from the and staff to discuss 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. on Shakespeare. Student Center. Shakespeare’s comedy. music department. art. viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 

Mendoza drops to No. 2 in rankings 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday students, which is very meaningful to which definitely helped our overall 
except during exam and vacation periods. By RACHEL O’GRADY 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one associate news editor me. again, i think their response sig-score. This, too, is meaningful to me, 
semester. 

The observer is published at: nals how much they value what we do because it reflects the hard work of the 
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 

bloomberg businessweek ranked here at mendoza,” huang said. notre dame career center to place 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 

posTmasTer the university’s mendoza college of huang said he was pleased with the our students,” huang said. 
send address corrections to: The observer 

business no. 2 out of 114 schools na-no. 2 ranking overall. according to a university press re-
p.o. box 779 

024 south dining hall tionwide in their annual ranking of “since this is the last year that lease, bloomberg updated their rank­
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. undergraduate business programs in a bloomberg is ranking undergraduate ing methodology this year. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

report released monday. programs, it would have been nice to “bloomberg updated the rankings to 

“a tradition of excellence and a com-continue our five-year streak of being put a heavy emphasis on career paths. mitment to ethical business is the no. 1. but i certainly am pleased with it no longer includes any academic deepest part of our identity. we con-being ranked no. 2, especially since i quality metrics, such as intellectual tinually look for ways to advance our realize all the hard work and dedica-capital or faculty research, which pre-
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen marek mazurek curriculum to stay current with de-tion from students, faculty, staff and viously accounted for 30 percent of the megan valley elizabeth greason 
veloping trends so that our students alumni that goes into making our pro-ranking. while i agree that careers are 
catherine owers 

leave here prepared to meet the chal-gram as excellent as it is,” huang said. important, i don’t agree with elimi-
Graphics Scene 

lenges of the global economy,” roger mendoza will continue its tradition nating academic quality altogether,” 
olivia mikkelsen matt mcmahon 

huang, the martin J. gillen dean of of excellence in the coming years, huang said. 
Photo Viewpoint 

the mendoza college of business said huang said. additionally, huang said they 
michael yu Tabitha ricketts 

in an email. “all this we do irrespec-“i also want to emphasize that re-eliminated the alumni feedback tive of the rankings and therefore fact gardless of any ranking, we remain component. that the ranking is discontinued will faithful to our mission of service and “bloomberg also excluded alumni 
Corrections 

not divert us from that course.” vision that business is a force for good ratings of their own alma maters in 
The observer regards itself as mendoza held the no. 1 spot for five in society,” huang said. “That never a portion of the recruiter feedback. a professional publication and 
consecutive years starting in 2010 and changes for us, and our students re-To us, the notre dame network is an strives for the highest standards 
lasting until 2014. flect its importance in all of the amaz-amazing resource for our students. we 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

“The ranking is based on four com-ing things they do.” value their help and wisdom,” huang 
however, recognize that we will make 

ponents — recruiter feedback, stu-huang said he also appreciates the said. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

dent surveys, starting salary data and hard work of the career center at the 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so internships. so first and foremost, university. Contact Rachel O’Grady at   
we can correct our error. mendoza was ranked no. 1 by the “recruiters also ranked us highly, rogrady@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | The observer 

paid adverTisemenT 

Keenan to sponsor mud volleyball tournament 

By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 

white Field will turn brown sunday when Keenan hall hosts the 12th annual muddy sunday mud volleyball event to end anTostal week. 
sophomore greg brainard, one of the event commission­ers, said muddy sunday serves as a fun opportunity to relax with friends before finals week. 
“it’s always right after the anTostal week, so it’s kind of part of anTostal and it kind of closes out the week,” brainard said. “it’s an awesome chance to unwind and have some fun with some friends before finals and before the end of the se­mester as everyone goes into summer, all, of course, while giving back to a good cause, and that’s kind of the main point behind the whole thing.” 
The event costs $10 per per­son with all funds benefitting habitat for humanity, which brainard said attracted him and his co-commissioner, sophomore Jack higham, to or­ganizing the event. 
“i think a big reason me and Jack wanted to do it was because we saw that it was a good thing for Keenan to put on to give back to habitat for humanity,” he said. “i know that a big part of our promo­tional goal is letting people know that it is for charity and, you know, it is first of all about giving back and it is a fun event, so it’s kind of a two-fold advertisement.” 


higham said he and brainard want to make sure the charity aspect of the event doesn’t get lost among the fun on sunday. 
“i think that while every­one’s having fun, they already paid their money so they might forget what the event is for, and that’s what we’re going to still emphasize, with the tent and a sign that says this is for this organization and we’re really happy you guys played and paid,” higham said. “it’s a win-win. you pay money for a great cause and you also get to have a lot of fun while you’re doing it.” 
muddy sunday is not only fun to participate in, higham said, but also fun to watch with plenty of games to be played and more structure than in previous years. 
“The event itself is just so much fun to participate [in], and it’s fun to watch, too,” he said. “we extended the time a little bit, the length of the event itself, and also, it’ll look more like an event. … in previous years, there was just a guy at a table, you’d go register and you’d go play volleyball, which is fine, but it was our event, we wanted to do it our way and make sure everyone could see that it is a Keenan hall event and it’s for a good cause.” 
brainard said he and higham came up with new ideas to im­prove the atmosphere of the event. 
“something new that Jack put in this year is that when you register your team you actually sign up with a song choice,” brainard said. “so we’ll have music playing as everyone’s coming in and you kind of just have it be a fun at­mosphere and maybe you’ll get to hear the song you requested while you’re playing, ideally. Just little things like that, just making it a fun atmosphere and a fun event, you know, is really what we tried to bring to it this year.” 
brainard suggested muddy sunday could be used to pro­mote dorm community by ras organizing and signing up a section team to participate. 
“muddy sunday is a great opportunity to have a section event,” he said. “in that way we’re kind of envisioning it as really fostering notre dame community, and even within that, dorm community too. This is all just a chance for friends to come together, and i think it’s a great chance for an ra to bring their section out and as a bonding event for the section. … why not bring your section out here and give back?” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Mumps 
conTinued From page 1 
probability of one sick person starting an epidemic, and if there is an epidemic, how long it is going to last,” wolf said. 
before they could start, wolf taught Kozemzak the neces­sary background information. 
“once she worked through the background material, by the time we got to the summer, it wasn’t like working with a student, it’s just working with someone else who knows the material,” wolf said. 
wolf and Kozemzak focused their research on smaller populations. 
“right now what we’re really seeing is the transmission of the disease in close-knit com­munities,” Kozemzak said. 
“because we’re modeling small populations, we want a discrete model that keeps track of the whole number population counts over time,” wolf said. “The numbers of people are whole numbers but time is a continuous variable.” 
They are also using a sto­chastic model, meaning a random model of people sus­ceptible to, infected by and recovered from the mumps. Kozemzak said this is viable whether someone is vaccinat­ed for the mumps or not. 
“vaccinations didn’t really affect the probability of get­ting the disease,” Kozemzak said. “There’s also a question of whether or not there are vaccine failures or not.” 
although their research was only over the summer, they were able to collect an abun­dant amount of data by en­tering an algorithm into the computer so they were able to attain a numerical aver­age. according to Kozemzak, this is termed the monte carlo simulation. 
Kozemzak said most models do not include the 2-4 week period of delay before symp­tom onsets into their predic­tions. This is what sets their research apart from others. 
“we want to delay it because there is that two to four week period,” Kozemzak said. “This means the process is no longer satisfying the markov proper­ty when we include delay.” 
according to wolf, the markov property is typically used for predictions of mumps epidemics using a continuous time as a continuous variable. They solved the problem by creating their own model us­ing a fixed period delay of 17 days. 
The pair found that in a 15 person population there was a 20 percent increase in the probability of outbreak when they added the delay. in a pop­ulation of 30 people there was was a 40 percent increase. 
First year sierra wu said the presentation was impressive and informative. 
“i didn’t know that mathe­matical modeling was so use­ful,” wu said. “i was impressed she could make a model from something so quantitative.” 
Kozemzak said the sisTar project helped her decide she wanted to stick with doing research. 
“after doing the research, i just kind of want to do re­search now,” Kozemzak said. “i have another experience lined up for next summer already.” 
“i would encourage anyone with a chance to apply for a research grant to do it,” wolf said. 
Kozemzak agreed with her mentor. 
“it was so much fun; i learned a lot. The stuff i learned over the summer was beyond my course work.” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 

he said. “all those things hap­pen, and they get frustrated, they feel like they’re doing something wrong or there’s something wrong with me 
— all those things happen at once. it just creates this break­
“Disability is not the whole of who you are... It is part of my identity, but it doesn’t define me.” 
Grace Agolia 
junior 

down in communication, and people do not see the interac­tion as worth getting over that breakdown.” 
megan crowley, a fresh­man at notre dame, has pompe disease, which pro­gressively weakens muscles. 
Editor’s note: Crowley spoke to The Observer with the as­sistance of her nurse, Debbie 
Diversity 
conTinued From page 1 
staff.” 

a graduate of the notre dame law school, young said she was thrilled to be back at notre dame. 
“i began my professional ca­reer here and it is my hope that i will end it here as well. in the almost 30 years in between, i’ve practiced law, i’ve taught legal research and writing, i’ve served as a college administrator, i’ve earned a degree in educational leadership and established a consulting business.” 
with over 25 years of experi­ence, young will focus on ad­dressing issues and weaknesses identified from the survey. 
burish said that many recom­mendations resulting from the survey had already been made to his office. 
“The deans reported that in every school and college they met with some groups of faculty to talk about the survey results and to identify some ways of ad­dressing the weakness and ac­tions we could take at each level 
— department, college, univer­sity, etc. — and forwarded their recommendations to us,” he said. “i could not ask for more.” 
young said her passion for social justice started when she was a child growing up in ru­ral alabama; she said the year she entered first grade was the first year the school was desegregated. 
“what we often think of now as social justice, i knew as a child as civil rights,” she said. “often, we think of civil rights as a move­ment of the past. as champions of that movement pass, like our own Fr. Ted, it seems remote, distant and irrelevant. but for me and millions more, it is the story of our lives.” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
Larsen, who is quoted below. 
“one of the things that both­ers her the most is she un­derstands some people don’t talk to her, but she prefers that to someone who’s talk­ing to her and acting like they understand her and they re­ally don’t,” larsen said. “They don’t want to ask you to repeat yourself. she’s okay with re­peating herself as many times as she needs to, but people don’t usually ask.” 
Jessica ping is a freshman at notre dame who has child syndrome, a limb and skin de­ficiency, and has only partial limbs on her left side. 
“one thing i notice a lot is people are almost, i don’t real­ly want to say afraid, but they don’t know how to handle the situation, so they don’t really confront it,” she said. “They’ll be social, but most of the time i have to be the one to initi­ate the conversation, which is fine, but it would be nice for a reciprocal type thing.” 
Kloeber said he has found navigating the social aspect of law school to be “what you make of it” with a disability. 
“obviously, people with disabilities face unique struggles with socializing, but i want to be careful and not try to homogenize it,” he said. “everyone has different struggles — whereas my thing might be trying to communi­cate with people in a loud bar, it would be different from what someone else might be dealing with. it’s not one experience, it’s just different.” 
agolia said people have been accepting of the fact that she is more than her disability. 
“disability is not the whole of who you are,” she said. “it is a part of my identity, but it doesn’t define me.” 
News writers Megan Valley and Madison Jaros contributed to this story. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu and Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 




Disability 
conTinued From page 1 
no carpeting, and high ceil­ings, so the acoustics are bad,” she said. “so i try to make my needs known to my friends, like can we sit in a table in a quieter part of the dining hall, like in a corner or something, or can i sit over here, because it will help me hear better. so a lot of times that has to come from me.” 
agolia said she is appre­ciative when friends rec­ognize what she needs without her having to ask for accommodations. 
“i really, really appreciate it when my friends remember to walk on my right side, and not on my left, it’s super helpful. it just makes my day when peo­ple remember,” she said. “and when i feel lost or confused in a conversation, when one of my friends sees my look of confusion and turns to me and speaks closely to my implant, especially in a noisy situation, just telling me what that per­son said. and having patience when i say ‘what’ fifty times in a row.” 
Fiona van antwerp, a sopho­more at saint mary’s with dys­lexia, said she told her friends about her disability halfway through her first semester of college, and it took them a while to figure it out and un­derstand, but they have been supportive. 
“They ask me, ‘what can we do for you? how can we help you?’” she said. “my room­mate asks if she can play mu­sic because she knows i’m an auditory learner.” 
ross Kloeber, a first-year law student who is hard of hearing, said he wishes people would push through their discomfort with his disability. 
“For me, a lot of times people will get uncomfortable when the communication breaks down, so if i’m not hearing you, with stress, i stop lip-reading as well, with things like that,” 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By LESLEY STEVENSON 
scene writer 
let’s suppose, for a second, that goldilocks never found the porridge that was “just right.” let’s imagine she, with her wandering ways and insatiable hunger, found little bear’s porridge to be “alright,” “fine” or even “0 out of 10 would not recommend.” her quest for superior starch would have forced her to look beyond the cottage — and if she had the very good fortune to come across uptown Kitchen, goldilocks would find a dish to delight even the snobbiest of oatmeal connoisseurs. 
Founded, owned and operated by Jonathan lutz, this granger restaurant serves breakfast and brunch in addi­tion to a dinner menu on Friday and saturday nights. it sits in a shopping plaza just seven minutes northeast of campus by car when traffic is minimal, as it was when two friends and i piled into a car and set out on our own quest Thursday morning. 
even at 9 a.m., the place is already buzzing. nearby eateries, shops and grocery stores lie still as their neighbor opens its doors to a cavernous interior alive with the chatter and chewing of breakfast aficionados. 
patrons sit at tables spread through three main spaces — two dining rooms and a bar area — and, weather permit­ting, fill the outside tables, too. on a Thursday morning, the crowd is most­ly middle-aged women and grannies, sometimes with their families, and their sounds ricochet off the spacious walls and ceilings (similar to the deaf­ening cacophony in The mark, one of lutz’s other south bend restaurants). 
everything about uptown goes up­hill from there. in spite of its somewhat strange interior layout and acoustic environment, the place delivers on its promise of top-notch breakfast cre­ations, and the windows and wall open­ings between dining spaces encourages patrons to feel as though they are truly sharing a meal together. certainly, ogling other people’s food is a core part of my uptown experience. 
uptown Kitchen’s menu is large, and recently lutz revised it, adding some features, taking away others and re­organizing the dishes in a much more aesthetically pleasing layout (the previ­ous book-like menu felt cumbersome). sections include their omelets, pan­cakes and waffles, fruits and, of course, oatmeal. The menu also includes sand­wiches, soups, salads, pizzas and a quiche of the day, though i cannot say i have ever seen anyone order them. 
uptown is a ritual for me and my friends. The waitress comes by our table to ask for our drink order: we’ll take water and three coffees, two with cream. we pretend to look at the menu and briefly entertain the idea of trying blueberry or raspberry baked oatmeal. when the smooth, soul-comforting cof­fee arrives, we’re ready to order — one Jonathan’s healthy hash (add avocado and chicken, sub sweet potatoes for reg­ular potatoes, no toast) and two baked oatmeals (cinnamon raisin, skim milk and brown sugar on the side). we go through probably three rounds of cof­fee refills, always encouraging the wait­ress to come back frequently, and when we’re ready to leave, we ask for coffee to go — if we forget our travel mugs, the coffee comes in recyclable cups. 

in short, uptown knows how to make a gal feel welcome. 
my tip-top recommendation to goldilocks (and anyone else seeking some home-baked perfection) is and will always be that cinnamon raisin baked oatmeal. in a deep-dish bowl, the square of cake-like oatmeal sits unassumingly unadorned, with a mini pitcher of warm milk (skim or two per­cent) and a small bowl of brown sugar at the ready off to the side. The con­coction reaches perfection when the milk, poured over the cake, seeps into the oats and creates a texture much more resembling that of regular oat­meal. brown sugar sweetens the mix to taste, adding an additional richness to the spices and subtle, yet distinctive, crunch of the cake. 
i have strayed from this thorough­ly spiritual experience four times: for a spinach-basil-feta omelet, car­rot cake pancakes, banana pancakes and the also-renowned stuffed French toast. all deserve hearty praise — the stuffed French toast, in particular, is the restaurant’s most well known dish. patrons choose the bread (challah, cin­namon raisin, etc.), and two ingredients from the selection of toppings, which includes fruits, sauces and spreads like chocolate drizzle, nutella and peanut butter. but cravings always pull me to the oatmeal. 
picky eaters and patrons with aller­gies or dietary restrictions encounter no trouble at uptown. my healthy-hash­ordering friend follows a strictly paleo diet, necessitated in part from a serious gluten allergy. she can find dishes of eggs, vegetables and fruits cooked with gluten-free prep, though she, like me, sticks to the healthy hash, her favorite order. a kids section on the menu has less complicated dishes, an added ben­efit for families that visit uptown for weekend brunches. 
The mark was not immune to menu changes, either. perhaps the changes reflect the stability of uptown and its niche market of brunch-lovers — while The mark’s condensed, revised list of offerings looks almost like an entirely new menu, with only a few items re­maining from the former lineup of dishes, uptown’s content stays nearly the same. more important, there’s still baked oatmeal. 
The reasonably priced offerings are enough to lure hungry college students (and especially their visitors) to enjoy delicious contemporary takes on classic breakfast recipes. give the place a visit and the menu a try, and i guarantee you, too, will find the dish that makes you feel “just right.” 
Contact Lesley Stevenson at                 lsteven1@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Pandas: An example for life 

Caitlyn Jordan 
photo editor 
recently, i’ve gained an almost unhealthy ob­session with pandas, especially with the pandas living at the smithsonian’s national Zoo. many of my friends do not understand my obsession with these chubby bears. True, they don’t really do anything but eat bamboo all day and scratch their bellies with their feet, but i’m here to tell you why panda-watching can actually bring enlightenment to your life. 
1. Pandas don’t care about anything 
we live in a world that constantly bombards us with the ideal of perfectionism. everyone must get into the perfect school, make perfect grades, get the perfect job and find the perfect soul mate.  perfectionism is not real; it is an unattainable ideal. many humans cannot grasp the idea that everything does not need to be perfect. surprisingly, pandas actually have this life lesson down. From watching the live panda cam, one can see that pandas hardly ever get upset. For example, if a panda falls over in front of all the visitors at the zoo, the panda just gets up and goes eats bamboo. if a panda gets in a territorial fight with another panda, eventually sleepiness calls and they all just fall asleep to­gether. pandas just do not care! 
2. Paraphrasing the immortal words of Cyndi Lauper, “Pandas just want to have fun” 
From the beginning of time, there has been a debate on whether or not animals have souls. do animals make it to heaven? do they feel happiness, sadness or anger in the same way that humans do? when bei bei was born, mei, the mother panda, had her maternal instincts kick in. if bei bei cried, mei would feed him. if bei bei got antsy, she would make him go take a nap. but, mei chooses to play with bei bei. one can see this love for play through photos, in person, or on the live cam that mei loves play­ing with bei bei as much as bei bei loves being around his mother. The two are almost insepa­rable. and their playing isn’t just instinctual play; it’s really “i want to have fun with you,” playtime. The two bears will wrestle and nip at each other for a couple of hours before falling asleep. and their play doesn’t just show their liveliness and personalities — their frustra­tion does, too. bei bei has a ton of energy. he’s always going at a million miles an hour until he plops down with exhaustion. mei does not always want to play: most of the time, she would rather eat. when bei bei comes up to beg to play with his mom and mei is not in the mood, mei will literally kick or slap bei bei away. if she doesn’t want to deal with her baby, she makes it clear. it’s actually pretty hilarious (i am not condoning panda abuse), and shows how much personality rather than instinct these animals have. 
moral of the story, if you are stressed out or just can’t deal go watch some pandas.  They’ll teach you a thing or two about being a good human. 
Contact Caitlyn Jordan at                               cjorda01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

why we march 
last week at the annual hesburgh lecture, one of the world’s most esteemed environmentalists, bill mcKibben, gave a speech titled, “The last ditch effort for a working climate: report from the Front lines.”  after first jokingly admitting his role to be a “professional bummer-outer,” he described the myriad of environmental consequences that result from climate change. specifically, he focused on the social and economic implications of climate change, showing that environmental problems are human problems. mcKibben then called upon notre dame to lead the movement for fossil fuel divestment. 
mcKibben urged us to utilize “the enormous reputation and prestige, rightly earned by de­cades of leadership from people like Fr. Theodore hesburgh and by a generation of scholars and stu­dents,” and using it in this case to “deprive the fos­sil fuel industry of the social license under which it operates.” investment in fossil fuel companies promotes processes of destruction and inequality. notre dame, therefore, has an opportunity and a duty as a leading catholic institution to withdraw support from these industries by divesting from fossil fuels. 
catholic moral values are not compatible with in­vestment in the fossil fuel industry. perhaps in the past ignorance validated a lack of action; however, today we know for certain that fossil fuels have cat­astrophic impacts for the earth and the people who live here. climate change affects everyone and is seen everywhere — from the drought in california to Typhoon haiyan in the philippines. 
pope Francis makes it clear in laudato si that it is our duty as catholics and human beings to take action on climate change. as we destroy the natu­ral bounty and wealth of our common home with a selfish, throwaway culture, the tarnished ecosys­tem harms human beings, and affects the poor dis­proportionately. in order to escape this downward spiral, it is imperative that developed countries like the united states dramatically reduce their fossil fuel usage and embrace renewable energy without delay. however, the prevalence of the fossil fuel industry in politics prevents this from happening. For decades the industry has blocked serious ac­tion on this global problem by perpetuating doubt about climate science and exercising financial in­fluence on our political system. as mcKibben men­tioned in his speech, he initially thought that the climate crisis was simply a matter of education — write a book, people will read it and, once informed and aware, people will change. yet regardless of all the data, we still see climate change denial in the news and media as if it were a debate. our system needs to change, and divestment from fossil fuels will promote this energy transformation. 
notre dame states that they do not invest in industries that are not in line with its values as a catholic institution. examples are companies whose products give support to abortion, embry­onic stem-cell research, contraceptives and por­nography, as well as companies involved in arms manufacturing, discrimination or “sweatshop” labor practices. climate change is undeniably a right to life issue as well; environmental destruc­tion threatens the life of the entire planet and its future inhabitants. 
by continuing to invest in fossil fuels, notre dame chooses to declare that it is acceptable to profit from the root of the largest and most com­plex problem humanity has ever faced. by inviting mcKibben to deliver the 22nd annual hesburgh lecture, notre dame attempted to build upon the strong moral foundation upon which Fr. hesburgh and many others laid for this university. Therefore, out of respect for the legacy of social justice that notre dame celebrates, we must reevaluate our investments. 
Following the mcKibben talk, over 50 individu­als joined Fossil Free nd in a rally, marching to the main building to demand the university remove investments from fossil fuel companies, reinvest in the energy transition and commit to advocate for climate justice. These demands are not radical; preventing the annihilation of our planet and its inhabitants is anything but radical. Fossil fuel di­vestment is one of the tools with which notre dame can act to save our planet and uphold the dignity of those most affected by climate change. let’s take a word of advice from our founder, Fr. edward sorin: “let no one ever say we dreamed too small.” 
Fossil Free ND 
Tessa Clarizio 
junior 
Kurt Natke 
senior 
Gemma Stanton 
freshman april 21 

You gotta regatta 
do finals have you down? are you exhausted from a hard week of watching the nhl playoffs instead of studying? do you yearn for an existential experience and need to seek meaning in this life? if your answer is anywhere from a yes to a soft no to any of these questions, then you need to know about the Fisher regatta. 
did you know the manti Te’o’s girlfriend, an avid regatta attendee, makes the trip out to saint mary’s lake simply because the thought of such a great event almost seems to good to be true? 
legend has it that, before the time of the regatta, men lived in caves. They were dark times. don’t return to those dark times. come to saint mary’s lake on april 23 to enjoy free hamburgers, slushies, music, spikeball and a guaranteed good time hosted by the men’s hall of the year, Fisher hall. rumor has it Fr. John Jenkins will be on his royal barge. Take a load off and enjoy this great weather — for all we know, it could be snowing next weekend. put down your books and grab your paddles. you can study during reading days — that is what they are for. There is a reason the regatta is ranked in top 100 college events by espn. if that doesn’t do enough for you, think of the eternal glory and riches to follow after a regatta victory. 
so grab your friends, grab your regatta tank, have a good time, pursue perfection on the lake and regatta to your heart’s content. you have the privilege, nay the pleasure, to participate in the greatest campus event and you would be silly not to partake. as the old saying goes, “you gotta regatta.” 
David Carmack 
freshman april 21 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Inclusion requires accommodation 

EDITORIAL 

living away from home for the first time presents a number of challenges: learning to do laundry, remem­bering to eat without being reminded, finding time to do your homework and a whole host of other things that someone else used to take care of. but for a number of new students each year, living away from home for the first time presents additional challenges others might not think of or experience. 
currently, 14 of notre dame’s 29 undergraduate residence halls are not fully wheelchair accessible due to the fact that they either lack an elevator or require climbing stairs to enter. yet, even amidst a wave of construction that includes the $400 million campus crossroads project, there is no current plan to make every dorm fully accessible, despite the fact that these very buildings serve as foundations for notre dame’s undergraduate culture and community. 
something must change. 
This week, we ran a series examining disability at notre dame and saint mary’s with a goal in mind: to create a conversation about how we care for all mem­bers of our community. 
at notre dame and saint mary’s, community is of the utmost importance. both schools stress that during their time here, students will find lifelong friends and become a part of a network that provides support and strives to uplift every student, faculty and staff member. 
but in order for this community to grow and flour­ish, it must be inclusive. it must allow all of its members to have equal access to the opportunities our schools offer. 

The americans with disabilities act of 1990 (ada) is a law that prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities. The law imposed a set of standards for new construction, requiring barrier-free designs that make the building accessible. buildings constructed before 1992, however, must only be made accessible to people with disabilities to the maximum extent feasible. 
notre dame’s buildings — both historical and mod­ern — are all ada compliant given the allowances made for historical buildings; however, in many cases, this is not enough. students who are unable to climb stairs cannot enter or maneuver almost half of the dorms on campus. 
The notre dame dorm culture provides a unique experience to students. when a student comes to notre dame, he or she is automatically placed in a residence hall, which for many becomes a home for the next four years. 
a student should not be prevented from living in a specific dorm because of a disability; likewise, a student who is injured should not be forced to leave their com­munity — even for just a few months — because they are unable to access their room. 
while the situation at saint mary’s appears to be more promising, there is still room for improvement. by now, all saint mary’s buildings have ramps leading up to them and elevators inside. however, weather condi­tions can often make the college less accessible to stu­dents with disabilities. 
in the winter, many students use le mans hall to cut across campus and stay out of the cold. because le mans only has a ramp on one side of the building, stu­dents who need wheelchairs or scooters are left having to go around the building, where paths are often icy or covered in snow. 
on both campuses, disability services works to give students with disabilities the same opportunities to succeed by providing them with accommodations and modifications to courses, activities or facilities. however, these physical barriers threaten the pillar of inclusion on campus, which the notre dame and saint mary’s communities have worked so hard to build up. 
about 90 percent of the 650 students registered with notre dame’s sara bea learning center for students with disabilities have non-visible disabilities. Though we should not exclude invisible disabilities from our discussions this week, we find the issue of physical ac­cessibility particularly troubling because there are no long- or short-term strategic plans to address accessibil­ity within the residence halls. 
as an editorial board, we believe it is not enough for the university and college to merely comply with the ada. This is not an issue of the law — it is an issue of taking care of people in our community. 
we see the construction happening on both campus­es and believe having a community that is completely accessible for people with disabilities needs to be in­cluded for future renovations. we urge notre dame and saint mary’s to go beyond what is required under ada. students should not have to uproot their lives if they find themselves injured and living in a dorm without an elevator. students with permanent physical disabilities should not be limited in the dorms they can inhabit and the places they can go. 
These changes will not happen overnight, but the university and college must create a plan to make all undergraduate living spaces fully accessible to all students. 

Farewell graduating missionaries 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 
as may approaches, graduating seniors face many revolutionary changes that will shock their presently com­fortable lives — probably none quite as politically in-the­moment trendy cool as the bernie sanders campaign call for insurgency or as physically and chaotically rebellious as a donald Trump mosh pit during a rally. yet, the im­mersion from a catholic disneyland campus community environment to a rigid corporate structure or diverse multi-lifestyle urban neighborhood is both physically as well as emotionally taxing. even if that changeover contin­ues to be educationally based in graduate school, the char­acter of new surroundings will evaporate notre dame’s unique coziness and constraints such as parietals. every transition in life essentially relies on a three-step process that can be overcome by heeding advice from those of us who have already trekked that journey. 
First, get in the game, and off the bench. we all know someone not accepted to notre dame out of high school but who transferred in a year later. we watch a volunteer, like current speaker of the house paul ryan who interned with representative Jack Kemp — coincidentally both of whom ran nationally as gop vice presidential candi­dates — work up the office structure to a successful career choice. everyone must pay dues by beginning at the bot­tom as “the new one” and learn the character, culture and climate of the new surroundings. however, each of us must plot a path onto the playing arena in order to prove our value. no experience is too insignificant, too short-lived or too detached to gain a foothold. 
secondly, gravitate towards a labor of love. everyone envies a person who claims that going to work is not a chore because it does not seem like a labor. certainly a sports professional earning millions a year “playing” a game might have the shortest and straightest path to a successful career since the athlete is either good enough to compete or not. however, nearly all of us leave our un­dergraduate years with no idea what we might enjoy or want to repeat daily for decades. and that uncertainty is perfectly acceptable well into our mid-life. but good luck follows one who practices a love. 

For example, the love need not be monolithic in nature, such as a religious activity from church that only attracts catholics. during my capitol hill career, i recall a small group of cigar smoking staffers who crossed paths enough times to establish a fraternal bond outside their smoke-filled rooms. ironically, several senators and representa­tives — including successive speakers of the house — also sought refuge in these designated smoking areas and struck up personal friendships that the typical congres­sional staff member would never imagine. when keeping true to a passion, others with similar interests gravitate toward you. That common ground sometimes allows you to leave your bench and enter your dream career’s playing field. 
hazardous health risks are not the only avenues to find common interests with others. sporting activities allow for politics, religion and racial bias to melt away into the sheer enjoyment of participating or competing. my personal passion is softball. during my first summer on capitol hill, i joined a softball team and volunteered to assist the soft­ball league. Then i volunteered to coach a charity baseball game played by members of congress, which i still coach today. Knowing of my involvement, a bipartisan group of women members of congress asked me to assist them eight years ago in organizing a charity softball game to benefit breast cancer survivors. To date, we have raised more than $250,000, and i have been privileged to befriend former representative gabby giffords who survived an assassina­tion attempt but threw out the first pitch two years ago. 
The third step of a transition is to appear confident even when not. confidence results not from arrogance but from acumen. Know yourself. study the career field and com­pany for which you will interview. remember to sprinkle a touch of humility in your presentation and prepare for various interview questions. The web is packed with career advice postings from which to prepare. careers are home­work assignments without deadlines, but you decide how much to study. 
Know how to place yourself into a potential employer’s perfect workplace environment. afterwards, selling yourself will be an easy task. generically, when any pro­cess works, the employees are focused on tasks in a har­monious climate and success flows. Know how to translate that generic workflow to specifically prepare for and inter­pret the questions that may be asked during an interview. 
when asked to describe yourself, it really means tell how you fit in that job and can enhance that organiza­tion’s efforts. when asked about weaknesses, demon­strate your self-awareness and how you overcame being a “frustrated perfectionist” and can assist office staff. if asked to tell about a time when something happened, give specific examples of problem solving and lessons learned. sometimes questions are only designed to gauge your thought process and how you react compared to others asked the identical question. 
graduation is a time of upheaval and adventure. best wishes with your first steps advancing a career. may your work be your love. may your lifetime be as revolutionary as you deem it. but throughout the journey, may you have fun. 
“10 Good Ways to ‘Tell Me About Yourself’”: 
http://info.theladders.com/ career-advice/10-good-ways-to-tell-me-about-yourself 
“The Four Secrets Behind Teams That Work Together So Well That Everyone Else Is Jealous”: 
https://www.themuse.com/advice/the-4-secrets­behind-teams-that-work-together-so-well-that-everyone­else-is-jealous 
“Are you answering these job interview questions incorrectly?”: 
http://info.theladders.com/career-advice/ job-interviewing-prep 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter: @GaryJCaruso or via email: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 



JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 


    Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Your emotions will lead the way, and your heart will force you into situations that can influence your relationships with others. This is a year of revelation and discovery. Take time to evaluate what you have and what you truly need. Do your best to discard deadweight and focus on what’s really important to you. Your numbers are 1, 7, 18, 25, 34, 45, 48. 
Birthday Baby: You are receptive, quick and dedicated. You are proactive and stylish. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You’ll pick up information quickly and find a way to implement it into your everyday life. A practical approach to work will keep you out of trouble. A change regarding your feelings will depend on how you are approached. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Use your intelligence and take a calculated risk. List your qualifications and someone will suggest an interesting position or activity that you should consider. Don’t rely on someone who has been evasive in the past. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Work on building up your physical strength. An emotional situation will be revealed if you are too open with your personal feelings and emotions. Work on improving your physical health, diet and fitness. A romantic encounter will boost your morale, so do not waste your great day. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional issues will escalate if you don’t discuss your feelings and concerns openly. Face any challenges you meet with the willingness to compromise, and strive to improve your personal relationships. Try something new. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do whatever it takes to lift your spirits and get you back into the swing of things. A physical change or taking on a new challenge will boost your enthusiasm and encourage you to have fun. Make romance your mission. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel or engage in a learning frenzy that will challenge your mind and give you new things to think about or experience. Expanding your vision will bring your plans closer to fruition. Don’t give in to unreasonable demands. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): A short trip should include someone you enjoy being with. Mixing business with pleasure will bring you closer to resolving an issue that concerns your lifestyle or current living arrangements. Romance will result in emotional rewards. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make a personal or professional move that will satisfy your creative imagination. Don’t just think about what you want to see transpire, make it happen. Don’t wait for someone else to make the first move. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get involved in events or activities that will give you an outlet for your energy. Physical fitness will encourage you to improve your living quarters. Love is on the rise. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stick to what you know and don’t let an emotional matter lead you into an unsavory situation. Keep the peace and keep your home and personal life stable. An investment regarding your property or retirement will add to your security. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look over a deal you’ve been contemplating, or finalize personal documents that will ease your mind and allow you to put a little cash toward something that will improve your looks or your relationship with someone you love. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don’t believe everything that is being thrown at you. If someone pressures you, take a pass. Join forces with someone who is offering stability and an equal partnership. Chose brains over brawn and you will achieve your goal. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Nearly impossible to win in UEFA 

Alex Carson 
assistant managing editor 
Editor’s Note: This week, the Sports Authority columnists answer the question, “In which competition is it most difficult to win a championship?” 
in my lifetime, the bulls, lakers and heat have all done it in the nba; the broncos and patriots have in the nFl; the red wings in the nhl have accomplished it and on the diamond, the yankees have done it. 
when it comes to college sports, alabama’s done it on the gridiron, while Florida accomplished the feat on the hardwood. 
These nine teams have one thing in common: They’re teams that have won back-to­back titles in their respective sports since my birth in 1995. it’s not a particularly common occurrence, perhaps with the exception of the nba, but it’s happened, prompting the “dy­nasty” talk every time it does. 
but the world’s greatest soc­cer competition, the ueFa champions league, hasn’t had a repeat champion since its in­ception during the early ’90s. marseille were the first win­ners of the champions league in 1993, and while clubs like real madrid, barcelona and manchester united have mul­tiple wins, they’re yet to follow one up with another. 
in the old days, winning the european cup — the name of the champions league’s pre­decessor and the name used today to refer to the trophy 
— in successive years wasn’t a small task. it was pretty easy to explain: each of europe’s domestic league winners, typically around 30 in number, joined the previous season’s european cup winners in a knockout tournament. each round was played over two matches, and the team that scored more goals moved on. 
but because only one — or two if the defending cham­pion didn’t win its league the previous year — club could qualify from each country, being champions of one of the big countries often meant at the very least a quarter­final appearance. when my beloved aston villa, 1981 english champions, entered the european cup, the path to our crowning achieve­ment was simple: valur, an icelandic team, was the first opponent, followed by east germany’s dynamo berlin, the soviet union’s dynamo Kyiv and belgium’s anderlecht in the semifinal. villa faced no spanish, italian or French club en route to the final, and it wasn’t until the final against bayern munich that they faced a particularly great opponent. 
while the champions league was limited to the champions of europe’s leagues, it omitted some of the best clubs in the world: spain’s real madrid and barcelona both missed out to real sociedad’s 1981 title-winning side, recent win­ners nottingham Forest weren’t present and a roma side that lost just twice in serie a missed out on the top competition. 
instead of having to run through those powers, villa skirted by against mostly sec­ond-tier competition. 
but when ueFa transi­tioned the competition from the european cup to the champions league, it created what’s nothing short of the best club soccer competition in the world. 
Today, instead of picking from just one premier league club, four teams represent england every year in the field, with the same true for german and spanish squads. italy headlines the countries that earn three berths, and when you throw in strong sides from portugal’s benfica and porto, France’s paris saint-germain and your annual upstart club 
— switzerland’s Fc basel is a recent example — you’re left with a competition that’s pret­ty hard to win. 
instead of skirting by, clubs are challenged at every stage of the competition — and we saw that again this year as defend­ing champions barcelona exited in the quarterfinals to atlético madrid. it’s a matchup that explains exactly why the champions league is so in­credibly tough to win — in the group stage, each blue blood can expect to see at least one other (real madrid and psg were drawn together, as were bayern and arsenal, for ex­ample) and once the round of 16 is reached, a formidable opponent can be expected there, too. 
but more than anything, the proof is in the results. we’ve seen repeat winners through­out the top american profes­sional and collegiate leagues, but when it comes to the champions league, we’ve nev­er seen it, no matter how good the defending champion is. 
That’s pretty cool. and em­blematic of a crown that’s so difficult to win. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MEN’S GOLF 

notre dame heads south to face stacked acc field 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 

notre dame won eight big east championships, but it will seek its first title in the acc this weekend as the irish travel to new london, north carolina, to compete in the acc championships. 
competition will begin Friday and the first round pairings for the irish will include boston college and virginia Tech; The larger tournament field features six of the top-25 teams in the current golfstat rankings. The weekend promises tough competition for an irish team coming off a 33-stroke win at the battle at the warren last weekend, and irish head coach Jim Kubinski said his team has been preparing appropriately. 
“our talks in preparation for accs have been about staying in the present and reducing our approach to its simplest form,” Kubinski said. “young players need to learn it’s not who, what and where — meaning who we’re playing, what it means or where the tournament is 
— but instead having total focus on the simple things we need to do to execute out there.” 
during practice this week, Kubinski said the focus has been on staying in the mo­ment and not looking too far ahead at the pressures of the upcoming competition. 
“we’re not looking at the weekend, as whole, with any forecasting,” Kubinski said. “we’re thinking about Thursday’s practice round right now, learning the course and developing game plans. on Thursday night, we’ll be looking forward to Friday play, getting the most out of our rounds. it’s day by day. That’s where our focus should be.” 
coming off of a home win this past weekend and all eight irish athletes finish­ing in the top 10, the irish will use this momentum to their advantage in the accs, Kubinski said. 

FOR RENT 

1 BR fully furnished includes large sunroom and laundry on 3 acres walk­ing distance to ND. Heat and water in­cluded. Month-to-month lease. $650 + $50 electric. Call 574-271-7205 
3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 

“we’re feeling very good as a player.” about our collective games,” another challenge loom-he said. “playing well on ing at the accs is the un­saturday was certainly a familiarity The old north nice boost. no matter who state country club pres-you are, having a strong re-ents. The irish are unde­sult offers affirmation that feated at home this season, the work you’ve undertaken but Kubinski said the team has meaning.” should carry its strong play 
with a large field and tough through to this weekend. competition, the irish recog-“we have played extreme­nize the unique challenges ly well at home this year,” that the acc championships Kubinski said. “The things will present them and are we’ve done at home though, preparing themselves ac-effective game plan for the cordingly with heightened course, comfort in our sur­composure in mind, accord-roundings, focusing on our ing to their coach. game and not our compe­
“The greatest challenge tition’s play, are all things for all the players compet-that we can do on the road. ing this weekend will be to i think we’ll see that this avoid getting caught up in weekend. That approach is things that have no bearing the path to seeing our best on the shot you’re playing,” play.” Kubinski said. “There are notre dame tees off Friday many examples, probably morning and play will con-looking back and/or fore-tinue through sunday in casting the holes ahead are new london. the biggest two. it’s just so important to be focused on Contact Molly Murphy at what you’re doing right now mmurph40@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800 family in for a football weekend. Contact 
+ utilities. Washer/dryer, kitchen ap-info@greymattersintl.com pliances included. Contact philipms@ sbcglobal.net TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY-­
SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND fam­ily needs an energetic, outdoor-loving, 
WANTED 
reliable gal to travel to beautiful Jackson  
Hole WY from end of May/early June to  
Need  a  babysitter  for  early August as our live-in nanny. Email:  
Sep  9th  eve  when  Domer  info@greymattersintl.com  

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | The observer 




W Lax 
conTinued From page 12 
outstanding players in cian dabrowski, molly wood at the center draw circle is a big tall kid who does a great job off-ball, and they have rainey hodgson: they’re like a little three-headed monster on of­fense and they’ve done an out­standing job of commanding the offense. They do what they do, they’re disciplined and they’re convicted. That makes them a triple threat. 
“Then when you look at their defense, they have a packed-in defense, so you see less fouls and less caused turnovers, but it’s aggressive. so while it might be looser than what you’d see at a high-pressure syracuse or notre dame defense, it’s definitely still incredibly physical and aggressive. and that’s really 
paid adverTisemenT 

helped their goalkeeper this season to limit the shots they’re seeing and giving up the ones they want to give up.” 
The game will be the eighth time in their last nine games that the irish have faced an opponent currently ranked in the top-15. halfpenny said her team is always ready to con­sistently play top teams. 
“i think that we’ve al­ways had a tough schedule,” halfpenny said. “This isn’t new. even when we were in the big east we always had a solid rigor outside our conference, playing northwestern and stanford and ohio state. The difference now is that since we’ve transitioned to the acc, that’s added another three or four top teams, not just top 20 but top 10 teams. so we’ve been prepping for this, but more than anything, because we have such a [veteran] team, they understand our oppo­nents and they’ve been ready for it. 
“it’s not like we’re think­ing ‘how do you keep go­ing?’ you have to keep going. and since we didn’t have all these great opportunities like usc and princeton last year, we get them this year. and i think the way the team has approached this year’s sched­ule is that we’re getting all of these opportunities. so it’s not that we have to play, it’s that we get another opportunity and we keep building our re­sume. and that’s more inspir­ing and motivating to them than daunting and pressure like. so it’s very exciting for us because that’s how we want them to approach it.” 
The irish and the buckeyes last met at the first round of last year’s ncaa tournament, where the irish used a run of seven consecutive goals to advance with a 13-11 win. halfpenny said this game late in the regular season could have consequences for this year’s tournament. 
“we’re going to have our work cut out for us with a team who wants this game,” halfpenny said. “it’s obviously our final regular season game and it’s a ranked opponent with a solid rpi opportunity on saturday. we both want it and i think it’s exciting to see two big-five midwest pro­grams battling to show some­thing to the ncaa committee. For us though we’ll just take this one game at a time and one minute at a time to play our game.” 
opening draw at ohio stadium will be at 3 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
Softball 
conTinued From page 12 
really just kind of focus on what we’re doing to make sure that we’re playing good softball,” gumpf said. 
and its an approach that has worked well for notre dame thus far, as it current­ly holds the longest winning streak in the conference at nine games. additionally, the success the irish have found this season has carried over to the mound: Their pitch­ing staff currently holds a collective .219 batting aver­age against, which is good for the second-best mark in the conference. 
north carolina’s hitters could challenge notre dame’s pitching staff, however. The Tar heels have seven regulars in their lineup hitting above a clip of .290. The Tar heels are lead by senior shortstop Kristen brown, who’s .403 av­erage leads the team. brown has also slugged 16 home runs on the year, tied for the ninth-best mark in the coun­try, and plated 49 runs, good for 14th in the nation. 
The Tar heels do not, how­ever, have the pitching staff to match the irish on paper. The irish staff collectively holds a 
2.68 era, with three pitchers 
— senior allie rhodes, junior rachel nasland and sopho­more Katie beriont — all sit­ting under a 2.60 mark. 
in contrast, the Tar heels do not have a starter under a 4.00 era and their collec­tive mark sits at 4.29. and while the irish have relied on a more balanced staff to anchor themselves, the Tar heels have heavily relied on one starter — junior Kendra lynch — to carry their rota­tion, as lynch has started 36 of the team’s 45 games. 
regardless of the quality of talent on the mound for north carolina, gumpf said she believes her team will find success if they continue the approach they’ve had over the last few weeks. 
“as long as we continue to keep attacking offensively and do a good job of really battling with their hitters, i think that we’ll have a great weekend,” gumpf said. 
The irish and the Tar heels will square off at anderson Family Field starting with a doubleheader sunday. First pitch of game one is sched­uled for 3:30 p.m., while game two is set to start immediate­ly after at 5:30 p.m. The third and final game of the set will take place monday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish set for season finale with Buckeyes 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer  
no. 10 notre dame will close  
out its challenging regular sea­ 
son with a trip to ohio stadium  
where it will face no. 9 ohio  
state on saturday.  
The irish (11-5, 4-3 acc) will  
be hoping to end the season on  
a high note after four losses in  
their last six games, includ­ 
ing monday’s 5-4 defeat at the  
hands of undefeated no. 4 usc.  
The buckeyes (11-2, 2-1 big Ten)  
will face a quick turnaround  
after Thursday’s game against  
rutgers, but irish head coach  
christine halfpenny said the  
buckeyes will be coming into  
the game with confidence.  
“They have a winning record  
right now, and there’s a lot to be  
said about winning breeding  
confidence,” halfpenny said.  
“The wins that they’ve gotten  
have bred a lot of confidence.  
They’ve also had a lot of one- 
goal games. They return some  KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer  
Irish senior defender Brie Custis attempts to stop a charge in   
see w laX PAGE 11  Notre Dame’s 5-4 loss to USC on Wednesday at Arlotta Stadium.  

ND SOFTBALL 
nd to face off against unc 
By BEN PADANILAM 
associate sports editor 
no. 18 notre dame will look to extend its nine-game win­ning streak when it travels to anderson Family Field for a three-game set with north carolina starting with a dou­bleheader sunday. 
The irish (34-6, 9-3 acc) continued their offensive tear wednesday against valparaiso, scoring seven runs on a team performance of nine hits in 25 at bats. Their .360 average in the game raised their season aver­age to .348 from the dish, good for the sixth-best mark nation­ally. irish head coach deanna gumpf said she thought notre dame’s lineup continued its strong season in the win, which is indicative of how talented the roster is from top to bottom. 
“i think our starting lineup did a great job,” gumpf said. “we made the pitchers work really hard early in the game, and that shows a lot about the girls who are putting the ball in play.” 
but now, after winning its 21st straight nonconference game, the irish return to their acc slate and travel to chapel hill, north carolina, to take on the Tar heels (24-21, 8-11). despite its losing conference record, north carolina has picked it up as of late in acc play. The Tar heels have won two of their last three series, in­cluding taking two out of three from louisville, who currently trails only notre dame and Florida state in the conference race. 
Trailing acc-leading Florida state by just two games in the standings, notre dame has a chance to gain some ground on the seminoles this weekend. however, gumpf said her team is not focused on the big picture of the conference race but rath­er thinking about each contest individually. 
“we take it one game at a time, one pitch at a time and 
see soFTball PAGE 11 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish look to maintain top rank at UNC 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The pressure is on for the top-ranked irish as they head to chapel hill, north carolina, for a shot at the acc regular-season ti­tle against no. 13 north carolina. 
beating the Tar heels (7-5, 2-1) would clinch the acc regular-season title and the second con­secutive unbeaten regular season in the acc for the irish. a win saturday would also give notre dame the no. 1 seed in the acc championship the following week. 
“This is obviously a huge game, and we know that they’re going to come out flying saturday,” senior defenseman edwin glazener said. “it’s hard to block out the noise, but we’re just try to dial into prac­tice every day and game day will come along eventually.” 
The irish have clinched the last three wins against the Tar heels, squeaking out a win last season, 15-14. while notre dame leads the overall series, 7-6, the last four con­tests have been settled by a single goal. This year, the Tar heels head into the contest after falling, 13­7, saturday to syracuse, who the irish beat 17-7 april 2. both teams took down duke by slim margins, with notre dame winning 8-6 against the blue devils on april 10 and north carolina sneaking by 17-16 in overtime april 1. 
“unc is always a good team, offensively and defensively,” glazener said. “They’ve been put­ting up a lot of goals and do well at the face-off. i think that the most important thing for us is to not play into their game and do what we do best and everything will come together during those 60 minutes.” 
offensively, the Tar heels have diversified their scoring ability with senior attack steve pontrello leading the team with 32 goals, fol­lowed by sophomore attack chris cloutier with 23 and 10 assists. notre dame senior attack matt Kavanagh goes into the weekend boasting 207 career points and currently leads the irish in points with 14 goals and 18 assists. but while Kavanagh and the rest of the irish attack go for the net, glazener said the defense plays a key role in helping their counterparts get there. 
“unc has a strong offense that scores in a variety of ways,” glazener said. “our defense plays best in the half-field game, so it’s going to be a team effort to make sure that we execute the ride well and don’t give up transition.” 
The irish have had time to work on those transitions coming off a bye weekend. notre dame hosted marquette in a midweek, non-conference matchup april 13 but took the following weekend off. 

“we felt like this was a good time to get a bye weekend,” glazener said. “Ten games in, some guys definitely needed the rest, and others needed to take the time improve in other areas heading into the end of the sea­son. ... we used the bye weekend for us, to get better at the things that we do, not tailoring anything towards unc.” 
now, returning to one last con­test of regular-season acc play, the irish have had the chance to look back at the last 10 games and confidently move on to their next opponents in chapel hill before heading into the postseason. 
“i think the most important thing we’ve learned over these last 10 games is that when we play loosely and confidently, teams will have a hard time stopping us,” glazener said. “we played our best game of the year against a good syracuse team at their place, and it was because we played with confi­dence and were having fun.” 
notre dame and north carolina close out the acc regular season saturday at noon at Kenan stadium.. 
Contact Kit Loughran at  kloughr1@nd.edu 





