THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVEr NEWSPaPEr SErVING THE TrUTH NOTrE DamE aND aND rEPOrT SaINT mary’S IT aCCUraTEly 

VOlUmE 50, ISSUE 92 | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | NDSmCObSErVEr.COm 
Forum invites response to curriculum review 
University community gathers to discuss Core Curriculum Review Committee report 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
News Writer 
members of the Notre Dame community had the opportu­nity to ask questions and express concerns about the proposed changes to the University’s core curriculum at an open forum monday. 
The formation of the Core Curriculum review Committee was a direct result of a letter sent by University President fr. John Jenkins and Provost Thomas burish in aug. 2014, asking Notre Dame faculty to “lead the pro­cess of reviewing [University] re­quirements and deliberating on possible changes to the curricu­lum.” The committee released a draft report containing a set of recommended changes to the 

see CUrrICUlUm PAGE 4 


freshmen attend 
Michel Hockx named 

networking fair 
director of Liu Institute 
scholarship and administra-and engagement with, the whole 

Observer Staff Report 
tive leadership,” Scott appleby, asian continent, and for raising michel Hockx has been named marilyn Keough Dean of the Notre Dame’s profile in Europe, director of the liu Institute for Keough School, said in the press asia and beyond.” 


asia and asian Studies with­
in the new Keough School of 
Global affairs, the University 
announced in a press release 
monday. Hockx, the current di­
rector of the China Institute at 
SOaS University london, will 
join the Notre Dame faculty in 
august. “Professor Hockx is a lead-

“as director of one of the 
seven academic units that are 
now part of the Keough School 
of Global affairs, Hockx also 
will contribute to the ongoing 
formation of the school, which 
opens its doors to students in 
august 2017,” the press release stated. “He also will serve as a faculty member and teach in 
ing figure in Chinese studies release. “His appointment will be the Department of East asian who brings to the liu Institute a catalyst across the University languages and Cultures within an extraordinary record of for deepening understanding of, the College of arts and letters.” 



Congress requests info from 56 universities 
With an endowment of $10.5 in exercising its duties seeks in-
By MARGARET HYNDS 
News Editor billion, Notre Dame remains formation from various parties, 
among the wealthiest uni-both public and private, in order 
The Senate finance and House versities: bloomberg lists the to better inform themselves on Ways and means committees University’s endowment as the policy issues,” malpass said in an have requested information on sixth-largest in the country. email. “Notre Dame, like many the endowments of the 56 uni-Vice President and Chief other organizations around the versities with the highest endow-Investment Officer Scott malpass country, often contributes to a ments in the country, bloomberg said the inquiry was not unusual. business reported last week. “Congress from time to time see ENDOWmENT PAGE 3 


By RACHEL O’GRADY 
News Writer 
Hoping to start getting fresh­men involved in student govern­ment, the first Undergraduate Experience in leadership (fUEl) hosted its second annual freshman Networking fair on monday night in the lafortune ballroom. 
Sophomore fUEl co-director michael finan said the purpose of the event was to expose freshmen to groups on campus they could get involved in. representatives from several student government branches spoke to students inter­ested in student leadership. 
“It’s really just a great chance to expose them to all the opportuni­ties on campus for them to be a leader,” finan said. “We have a lot of people from executive council 
see frESHmEN PAGE 3 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg Hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney                    Cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary Green 

Asst. Managing Editor: Wei lin 
News Editor: margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: Erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh Ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: Erin rice Multimedia Editor: Wei Cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: Emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmes01@saintmarys.ed 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@smcndobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du lac and Saint mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, managing Editor, assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTmaSTEr 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the associated Press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


If you had to pick one person to win a Grammy, who would it be? 

Lucy Jones 

Lauren Smith 
sophomore 
freshman 
lewis Hall 
Walsh Hall 
“Taylor Swift.” 
“beyoncé.” 

Michael Iodenquai 

Kala Sperbeck 
freshman 
sophomore 
morrissey manor 
Cavanaugh Hall 
“beyoncé.” 
“Ed Sheeran.” 

Quinlan McWilliams 

Bertie Arce 
junior 
freshman 
Keough Hall 
Walsh Hall 
“I don’t know.” 
“beyoncé.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
Katie Galioto marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel O’Grady alex Carson Jenna Wilson maureen Schweninger 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Eric richelsen Jimmy Kemper 

Photo Viewpoint 

“Getting Started in Brazilian Carnaval Chines New Year’s “The Bear” and Alex Wilson 
Chris Collins austin Taliaferro 
Research” Legends Night Club Gala “Afterplay” Invitational Brownson Hall 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Loftus Sports Center  4 p.m.-5 p.m. Samba band and 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center all day  


Corrections 

Learn how to launch a dance group, as well as Performaces of 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. Men’s and women’s 
The feb. 15 edition of The Observer creative endeavor. light refreshments. Chinese songs. Two spirited comedies. indoor track competes. incorectly identified the date of the two Justice fridays photos. The photos 
Film: “Les Martin Ott Reading SUB Movie: Improv Show: Junior Parents 
were taken feb. 5. The Observer 

Miserables” Hammes Bookstore “Brookyln” “Second City” Weekend Concert 
regrets this error. 

LaFortune Student 7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. DeBartolo Hall Washington Hall Ricci Band Rehersal Center Ott writes love poems 8 p.m.-10 p.m. 9 p.m.-11 p.m. Hall 7 p.m.-9 p.m. that represent An Irish immigrant falls Join Second City for a 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Snacks will be served. different eras. in love. Chaos ensues. night of laughter. Jazz performances. 

NDSmCObSErVEr.COm | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | THE ObSErVEr 



Right to Life sponsors apologetics training 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame right to life spon­sored apologetics training monday night to teach students to defend their pro-life beliefs. apologetics commissioner luke mcVeigh instructed participants on how to facilitate dialogue and articulate pro-life arguments. 
“What we aim for is to have a friendly, open dialogue with someone about it,” he said. “There’s what you say and how you say it. Obviously, it’s im­portant to be saying the right things, but also how you say it is just as important, if not more important.” 
mcVeigh began the train­ing session by explaining the 


freshmen 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 1 
here, from Judicial Council, SUb, Diversity Council, PrismND and a lot of other organizations in the student union, so that they can get a chance to talk to upperclassmen, get a sense for what we’re doing and where they could see themselves in the next three years of their time here at Notre Dame.” 
He said fUEl hosted the net­working fair at this point in the school year because of upcoming elections and application cycles for student government and other groups. 
“Since election season is scientific foundations of the pro-life argument. He said it was im­portant to establish “common ground of what the pre-born are.” 
“Our development is all self-based, there’s not anything that develops for us,” he said. “It’s self-directed. The mother isn’t directing the development of the child; the unborn is directing its own development.” 
Understanding stages of hu­man development has become an important facet of pro-life apologetics, mcVeigh said. 
“a lot of times, people bring up the idea of when someone becomes a person — when they have a heart, when they have a brain,” he said. “That would be true if you were talking about a 
underway at Notre Dame, fUEl brought a bunch of different groups from the student union to give freshmen an idea of what positions are available for them to run for or be appointed to for the upcoming school year,” finan said. “because all the elections are going on right now, if you’re a freshman and you don’t know what you’re doing, you can miss all of that.” 
fUEl is a group of 31 freshmen that meet weekly to “introduce them to student government, show them the different branches, de­velop them as leaders,” according to finan. 
“We wanted to take what we do with fUEl every week and give all freshman a taste of that,” he said. 
PaID aDVErTISEmENT 
car, which is constructed, and all these parts are added on. Whereas with a development, the blueprints are already there, it’s just developing and growing, like a photograph.” 
mcVeigh said most people agree on the science of the “pre-born” and that most of the discrepancies are rooted in phi­losophy, specifically related to defining personhood. 
“Personhood  is  based  on  
what  we  are,”  he  said.  “It’s  
our  substance,  regardless  of  
functionality.”  
Participating  students  

brought up counterarguments they had heard which they were unsure of how to answer, such as when the pregnancy is life-threatening to the mother. 
freshman Isabella Penola said she was interested in the many op­portunities available. 
“I’m just here because I want to get more involved in things here next year, and I’m just looking for opportunities to do that,” Penola said. “I just want to get a feel for the different departments, just see what’s out there.” 
freshman lindsey meyers also said she came to learn about lead­ership opportunities. 
“I’m here because I’m interested in the leadership opportunities on campus,” she said. “I know that networking is going to help me to understand the future steps I’m go­ing to have to take in order to get a leadership role on campus.” 
mcVeigh said the pro-life re­sponse has centered on the idea that directly killing another hu­man is not acceptable. 
“but in a situation like an ec­topic pregnancy, there are pro­cedures that’ll kill the unborn child. In this case, we’d say it’s okay to perform the procedure to save the mother,” he said. “Unfortunately, it will inevita­bly end the life of the child. … If the mother died, both of them would pass away anyways.” 
monday night’s training was intended to be the first part of a two-part training session for apologetics, mcVeigh said. 
“The second session is going to be about bodily rights,” mcVeigh said. “Even if we assume the fe­tus is a person with the right to 
Sophomore John Kill, director of the student services department in student government, described the work his department does to con­nect the student body to student government. 
“Constituent services is the de­partment that is the gateway for student voices here on campus,” Kill said. “We work with students; right now, one of our main projects is running Onward and moderat­ing Onward, the student govern­ment-moderated online forum. We do town halls, puppy days, all that stuff — we have a ton of fun doing all of that, we really enjoy it. 
“Our department is great be­cause you really get to see all of the communications between what students want to see and what student government can do, and we see that all the way through to completion.” 
Kill said he thinks the constitu­ent services department serves as a good starting place for freshmen interested in student government. 
“freshman should be interested in joining constituent services if they are interested in taking the ideas that their peers discuss in their dorms and the dining halls and their classrooms and actual­izing them,” Kill said. 
Senior Director of National Engagement and Outreach (NEO) for student government Julia Zanotelli encouraged freshman to “get outside the Notre Dame bubble.” 
“The department is trying to en­gage students with issues beyond our campus and get people en­gaged with national news and poli­tics especially, seeing as we have an election coming up,” Zanotelli live, there are some other argu­ments that people would make that says the fact that it’s inside the woman’s body gives her the right to end its life. We’ll be go­ing into those issues in depth and explaining why it wouldn’t be okay for that to happen.” 
mcVeigh said it was important to remain compassionate and sympathetic when engaging in discussion without compromis­ing beliefs. 
“be proud of your pro-life position,” he said. “We’re not ashamed of it; we’re happy to discuss with people about it. We have a great group here at Notre Dame, and I hope to grow it.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
said. “I would say we’re just trying to connect with other schools and organizations outside of our main campus in the best way we can; really we’re trying to get them en­gaged in these bigger things. 
“ … Starting out at Notre Dame it’s sort of easy to get caught in that Notre Dame bubble, so it’s good to expand your horizons and get en­gaged with the real world.” 
Senior Director of Community Outreach rohan andresen said his department focuses on build­ing strong community with South bend. 
“The purpose of the community relations department is to bridge the gap between the Notre Dame community and the South bend community,” he said. “The focus this year  has been more on mov­ing away from just doing service in South bend and kind of to just cre­ating more realistic and legitimate partnerships with the city.” 
andresen said South bend has undergone a period of evolution and economic growth in the last 10 years, and he added he is excited to see how the University plays into the city’s future development. 
“my goal has really been focused on moving towards using the city as an asset,” andresen said. “my role is trying to figure out initia­tives and events and discussions to help accomplish that task. So one of the big things we’re doing, some­thing we’ve done for the past eight years, is back the bend Day, which is coming up on april 2, and it’s a day of service where students can go and work in the community.” 


Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 




Endowment 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 1 
better understanding of particu­lar issues that are of interest to Congress.” 
The letter received by Harvard University president Drew Gilpin faust obtained by the Chronicle of Higher Education included 13 questions related to endow­ment management, endowment spending and use, donations and conflicts of interest. 
malpass said the University will supply the information sought in the letter by the two committees. 
“In this case, Congress is re­questing information that re­lates to the development of tax policy, and we will assist fully in that discussion,” he said. “These are private inquiries by Congress so the content of any such re­sponses are not made public.” 

Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 





Curriculum 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 1 
students to take three courses in scientific and quantita­tive analysis, one fewer than the two math courses and two science courses currently mandated by the University. Students would also have to choose three courses from the five “other liberal arts” cat­egories — “aesthetic analy­sis,” “social sciences inquiry,” “advanced language and cul­ture,” “historical analysis” and “integration.” 
The draft report’s recom­mendations would maintain the current requirements of two theology courses and an introductory philosophy course. Instead of a second philosophy course, however, students would have the op­tion of taking a “Catholicism and the Disciplines” (CaD) course. 
“The idea of the course would be to broaden the faculty rep­resentation for faculty that were addressing the mission of the University throughout their teaching,” Hildreth said. “ … This is both a formative and potentially informative way of showing the students how these things would fit together.” 
The committee suggested an increase to the University’s writing requirements by pro­posing that all students, even the ones that test out of the Writing and rhetoric course, take a writing-intensive course in addition to their University seminar. This course would likely be double counted to fulfill some other core or ma­jor curriculum requirement, Hildreth said. 
An integrated education 
John mcGreevy, dean of the College of arts and letters and co-chair of the committee, said the recommendation to imple­ment “integration courses” came from faculty suggestions to include courses on broad topics, such as sustainability and climate change, in the re­vised core curriculum. 
“responding to those faculty and responding to students who want to see more work across disciplines, that brings together faculty and students on a common project from dif­ferent angles, we came up with the idea — although it’s not en­tirely original — of the integra­tion courses,” he said. 
Hildreth said the integration courses would each be taught by two or more faculty mem­bers, combining ideas and perspectives from different disciplines and departments. 
“What we envision is that the core course isn’t just an introduction to a discipline,” he said. “It’s showing how the broad ideas of that discipline relate to other disciplines, what’s the place of that dis­cipline in the context of life and modern society and in the Catholic faith.” 
The committee received suggestions for a number of interesting and diverse course offerings that examined big issues in today’s society, Hildreth said. 
“We could have designed a very nice eight-year under­graduate exercise with all the recommendations we got for adding courses and compo­nents to the core,” he said. 
Seth brown, professor of chemistry, said he thinks com­bining two areas of studies in one course may result in more work for students. 
“I think there’s some irony in saying that in order to have integration, we need to have separated faculty members,” he said. “In some sense, to me, we’re expecting more integra­tion on the part of the students than we’re expecting from our faculty, which doesn’t really seem fair.” 
mcGreevy said the integra­tion courses focus on incorpo­rating new teaching methods more than they focus on incor­porating new content. 
“We expect that the very presence of those two faculty and their engagement every single day across the semes­ter … will produce a different intellectual environment,” he said. “The very fact that these faculty are trained in differ­ent disciplines and that they approach the problems from different ways will result in a different kind of course, a different kind of intellectual experience.” 

AP credit conflict 
Hildreth said the com­mittee recommended the University eliminate the use of advanced Placement (aP) courses as replacements for core requirements. 
“We really felt that these core courses that we’re teaching are not high school courses,” he said. “Then there’s re­ally no reason why advanced Placement should allow one to test out of what we think are the most important courses at the University.” 
Hildreth said students could still use aP credits to place into higher courses or fulfill major requirements. 
Ted “fritz” Warfield, pro­fessor of philosophy, said he thinks the change in the aP credit policy may limit stu­dents who may have otherwise been able to pursue additional areas of study. 
“I think there’s an obvious tension in the desire for flex­ibility and the treatment of the aP courses given in this proposal,” he said. “In my ex­perience, the students who go through with the most flex­ibility are those who use the flexibility they get through, in some cases massive, aP credits to do things like double major or triple major.” 
mcGreevy said the removal of a math or science course will make the change a relatively even trade-off. 
“We are uncomfortable with the fact that about 30 percent of the arts and letters students and 30 percent of the business students test out of all their math right now,” mcGreevy said. “We’re not sure, then, that we’re really giving them the core education that we think they need.” 
mcGreevy said the commit­tee also felt aP courses gave some students an unfair disad­vantage over others based on their background. 
“Students in inner-city high schools and students in rural high schools have less access to aP courses, and therefore they come to Notre Dame and have significantly less flexibili­ty than the students who come to Notre Dame from high-pow­er Jesuit [or] public suburban high schools,” he said. 

Increased schedule flexibility 
Hildreth and mcGreevy said the most common feedback point they received after more than 50 meetings with stu­dents, faculty, staff and alumni was a desire for an increase in flexibility in scheduling. 
“If a student came here with no aP credit … there are some majors, mostly in engineer­ing, where that student has no free electives,” Hildreth said. “Their entire course of study is completely determined, if you factor in the core and add in their major requirements.” 
The draft report recom­mended each student be guaranteed three free elec­tives, regardless of his or her program of study, Hildreth said. 
“We did not want to add a course to the core curricu­lum,” he said. “Ours is at the very high end of number of courses asked of our students. The strongest complaint, or at least the most discontent, we heard from the students was the sheer number of courses in the core curriculum.” 
Some students also com­plained about a lack of intellectual challenge in in­troductory courses, Hildreth said. The committee suggest­ed the University refocuses these courses to emphasize the creation of a well-rounded education. 
bill miscamble, a professor of history, said he feels stu­dents should be guided by a more rigid and comprehen­sive conception of a Catholic education. 
“I hear from the engineer students who end up taking my history class in their second semester of their senior year … how they resent having to take a history class,” he said. “It’s my task to engage them and show them the benefits of tak­ing it. and I would like to think that most of them, at the end of the course, see the benefits of it.” 


Looking forward 
Hildreth said the committee recommended the University create a committee to oversee the core curriculum. 
“If we want the core to be owned by the University, then there should be University support for it,” he said. 
Senior faculty are under­represented in many of the introductory core courses, particularly theology, philoso­phy and math, Hildreth said. 
“While we proposed a par­tially elected, partially ap­pointed committee, we’re not really sure what that form will take,” he said. “ … but it’s clear that the governance struc­ture and the participation of a University-wide community governing the core should be one of the goals of this exercise 
— because that’s currently not what we have.” 
mcGreevy said the commit­tee plans to continue to dis­cuss the core curriculum for the remainder of the semester. Over the summer, the group will convene to write its final report, which will likely be submitted for the University approval process next fall. 
The changes to the core cur­riculum would be implement­ed in the fall of 2017 at the very earliest, mcGreevy said, and will likely be put in place for the incoming class in the fall of 2018. 
“We don’t have a great cul­ture at Notre Dame of innova­tion and testing out new things in the core curriculum,” he said. “Our core hasn’t changed almost at all since 1969, for reasons good and bad. This gives us an opportunity to test out some new ideas.” 

Contact Katie Galioto at kgalioto@nd.edu 


THE ObSErVEr | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | NDSmCObSErVEr.COm 

By KELLY McGARRY 
Scene Writer 

The classic story of a gangster family that we often see portrayed in modern day New york is being retold in a unique historical setting. In “Peaky blinders” we en­counter a similar character dynamic filled with both family drama and political tension, with the new cultur­al influences of post-World War I birmingham. 
The silly-sounding title “Peaky blinders” reveals little about the series content, that is, until the term has been deciphered. To the Shelby clan that practically runs birmingham, peaky blinders refer to the razor blades sewn into the peaks of their caps that are literally used to blind opponents in a brawl with a slash across the face. you can’t make this stuff up — and they didn’t. The series is based on a real birmingham gang from the 1920s. 
The show is a glamorized version of realistic events. many of the scenes are dark but there’s also a flashy el­ement. The characters’ fashion reflects their military background. Everything is neat and clean-cut, prepared by men who were trained for military precision. The haircuts are sharp, dramatic shaven sides with a long top. I wonder if the style is really based on the period or a modern interpretation of the style. 
By BOBBY WOZNIAK 
Scene Writer 

The seamless fusion of music, fashion and perfor­mance art that was the yeezy Season 3 showcase/”The life Of Pablo” album release/Vanessa beecroft piece undeniably changed the traditional concept of art. Say what you will about the inexplicable yet ingenious Kanye West, but his madison Square Garden show raised the bar and transformed expectations for what it means to be an artist. after coming off of two previous yeezy collections, which were highly criticized by fash­ion elites yet (unsurprisingly) very successful, mr. West seemingly stopped the world with his art spectacle. 
With his signature earth-toned, oversized clothing draped over mostly black models wearing neutral un­dergarment body suits, West proved himself as a true contender in the world of fashion. Surrounded by 1,200 extras dressed in similar garbs, standing confidently and poised for the entirety of his nearly two-hour show, the collection was perfectly accompanied by his new music and beecroft’s dystopia-inspired performance. The level of execution and cohesiveness spoke volumes of ye’s creative intuition and passion for diversifica­tion. He’s not afraid to experiment in other fields, and he’s even less afraid to bring these fields together in a 
If you have no stomach for violence, the cinematogra­phy of violent scenes is in your favor. Hazy erratic shows distort the view of violent events, showing enough that you understand what happens, but without the gut-cur­dling gore. 
However sensitive the audience may be to violence, the show’s characters certainly are not. “Peaky blinders” is set in the aftermath of World War I, when it was consid­ered shameful to not have fought, and people (Inspector Campbell) were criticized for not having been “in france.” In the war, the men had experiences like seeing their friends blown to pieces and fearing for their im­mediate survival. They were unable to submit to feelings like fear, disgust and empathy. They had to take on a util­itarian perspective to justify war acts. Not only has their rational perspective changed, but has been damaged in many due to PTSD. 
Some were crippled by it and no longer able to function, like arthur, the eldest Shelby brother who returned from the war unable to lead his family. Others like Tommy, the younger but truly most powerful brother were main­ly hardened by it, though not without the occasional opium-induced flashback. The military aftermath per­meates the psyche of almost all the men in the commu­nity, making it inherent in the society. The entire social 
way that has never been done before. 
The very next day, the always elusive and cooler-than-everyone-else rihanna made her New york fashion Week debut with a black and white, semi-goth­ic street-style collection for her new fenty x Puma col­laboration. Clearly inspired by her own unique sense of fashion and tendency to be an absolute bad a-- at all times, rihanna left her initial mark on the fashion landscape and proved that she is a force to be reckoned with amongst the world’s top designers. Not to men­tion, this was all done a mere two weeks after releasing her already-platinum eighth studio album, “aNTI.” 
The superstar’s first Puma collaboration with the Puma Creepers sneaker immediately sold out, leading critics to believe that the footwear in rihanna’s new collection, specifically her unnamed sneaker-stiletto hybrid, have the potential to become shoe of the year. With West’s yeezy boosts being 2015’s shoe of the year and rihanna’s new kicks slotted to be 2016’s number one hit, it is clear that the worlds of fashion, music and art are colliding with great force. 
It’s becoming more and more common to see mu­sic artists becoming more involved with the fashion industry, setting trends, sitting front row at the most renowned fashion shows and even creating their own successful lines, like ye and rih. artists like a$aP climate has changed to an emotionally closed off battle for survival, so much so that it’s normal at this time. 
Cillian murphy portrays the clearly ambitious yet mys­terious Tommy Shelby in stoic rule over birmingham. aunt Polly (Helen mcCrory) is the wise, rational voice of the family. Together, they clash with sadistic Inspector Campbell (Sam Neill) who is ruthless in his mission to take down Tommy Shelby. The Shelbys deal with conflict with the coppers, the communists and the Ira, all com­plicated by forbidden romance. 
a modern soundtrack transports the audience from modern day into the world of “Peaky blinders.” The series hammers us with intensity from Jack White in raconteurs and White Stripes tracks, and evolves into a more modern sound later in the series with recent hits from arctic monkeys and PJ Harvey. The feeling from the music teleports us to a different-looking time. Season two had a lot of differences in the soundtrack, so you might hear any of your most sinister favorite artists in the third season. 
This week, catch up with “Peaky Blinders” on Netflix. Season three is expected to come out in April. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
rocky and young Thug are breaking down fashion norms and becoming the muses of top designers. Jaden Smith bravely became the new face of louis Vuitton’s women’s line, while his younger sister, Willow, re­leased her own sock collaboration with Stance. artists are turning to fashion to further express their creativ­ity and ingenuity, breaking barriers and transforming their musicality to a more physical representation of their artwork. 
So, what does this mean for the future of art? It means there are no longer expectations to hold or categories to stay within. artists are pushing the boundaries of what it actually means to be an “artist.” With various art forms already being fused together by the world’s most well known faces, we can expect the landscape of art to be completely revolutionized in the very near future. 
It’s inspiring to see how hard these already-famous artists are working in order to put their visions into ac­tion, exploring different fields that mimic their evident self-exploration. With time, we will continue to see just who these indefinable artists truly are through their commitment to art and be inspired to pursue a variety of avenues in our own lives that allows for true creativ­ity to exist. 

Contact Bobby Wozniak at rwozniak@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 

THE ObSErVEr | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | NDSmCObSErVEr.COm 



InsIdE CoLumn 

The cursed interpretation 
Catherine Owers 
News Writer 

about two weeks ago, I had a 3 a.m. exis­tential crisis. It wasn’t induced by a missed deadline. It wasn’t induced by the absence of mediterranean night in South Dining Hall. It wasn’t even induced by forgetting my black jacket at finni’s. 
No, I had an existential crisis because I was re-reading my favorite Irish detective fiction, the second novel in Tana french’s excellent Dublin murder Squad series. and this book is so, so good. “The likeness” expertly incor­porates standards of the genre, but intensi­fies these themes so as to break new ground, revitalizing a genre that can at times be very self-limiting. 
anyway, I was reveling in the last ten pages of french’s masterpiece, when I discovered a major detail that’s not explicitly stated but implied. This detail doesn’t change my entire interpretation of the plot, but it does play a crucial role in understanding the psyche of the main character. all I could think was, “How on earth could I have not seen this before? I’ve read this book at least three or four times and never noticed it.” 
It wasn’t until the next day that I began to process this information, and came to a rather startling conclusion: we, as readers, ultimately provide the definitive interpretation of the work we encounter. Perhaps this is an obvious statement. my English professors are always emphasizing that an author’s statement of intent should be taken not just with a grain of salt, but the whole shaker. (I don’t say this to denigrate the efforts of the author, for they are the ones crafting the words on the page, but merely to suggest that the message they seek to impart will always be different from the mes­sage extracted by the readers.) 
and so it was with this realization that I reacted to the news of the publication of an eighth Harry Potter story, due this summer. J.K. rowling has been careful to emphasize that she has not written an eighth novel — rather, she has worked with playwright Jack Thorne and director John Tiffany to create a play that will premiere on london’s West End, and this book is a compilation of the scripts. and while many people have reacted ecstatically to the news, there also seems to be a substantial amount of concern that rowling will “ruin” the series, diluting the characters or altering essen­tial themes. 
I’ll read the script book for “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Parts I & II” because, quite simply, I want to find out what happens next. but I also realize that another story can’t ruin the series for me because my love for the exist­ing seven books has already been established. Details about the characters, 19 years after the conclusion of the final book, will certainly be interesting, but they cannot alter my interpre­tation of the series as it stands. The characters I know aren’t simply the characters rowling created — they’re the characters as I’ve inter­preted them, as I’ve loved them. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk Smart 

I didn’t pay much attention to the Super bowl halftime show. my friends and I put it on mute and I went to go get a burger from five Guys. from the little I disinterestedly glimpsed, nothing seemed that remarkable. I was expect­ing only a couple of buzzfeed “listicles” about “21.6 times that beyoncé made us not even” or some such. However, I discovered the next day that there was much cause for controversy. During her performance of “formation,” the singer and her backup dancers appeared wearing costumes deliberately evocative of the infamous black Panther Party’s iconic uniforms. 
beyoncé doubled down on her activism when her backup dancers posed with a sign reading “Justice 4 mario Woods,” in reference to the death of an african-american man who was surrounded by San francisco Police Department of­ficers after he stabbed another man with a knife. The of­ficers employed beanbag shotgun rounds and pepper spray to compel Woods to drop his weapon. Woods refused to comply and attempted to leave the encirclement. Police briefly retreated, then opened fire when Woods refused to surrender. 
beyoncé is certainly within her rights to second-guess the SfPD when it comes to their use-of-force protocol, even though she has zero experience detaining belligerent, armed suspects. but the black Panther Party is the last orga­nization she ought to be promoting as an agent of empow­erment, and it would be tragic for the modern black lives matter (blm) movement beyoncé claims to inspire to end up in any way like the Panthers. 
founded in 1966 in Oakland, the black Panther Party’s initial goal was to engage in (legally armed) monitoring of police actions against minorities. In this respect, they were not too different from modern, centrist blm activists who encourage filming interactions with law enforcement or the wearing of body cameras by police, both laudable goals. Unfortunately, the Party’s rhetoric soon turned violent, with chants such as “Off the pigs!” becoming commonplace. The party adopted as its idols the Communist perpetrators of mass slaughter — Joseph Stalin, mao Tse-tung and Kim Il-Sung. 
Violent words prefaced violent acts. Throughout the late 1960s, the black Panthers perpetrated sporadic, armed ambushes against police officers. black Panther violence spread across the nation; in New york, the Panthers at­tempted to blow up multiple police stations. Schisms within the Party (exacerbated by fbI infiltration) quickly caused the violence to turn inward in the form of bloody purges. alex rackley, Sam Napier and betty Van Patter are just a few of the people tortured to death on the orders of black Panther Party upper leadership for the sake of a turf war. 
founding member Huey Newton would later claim, “We’ve never advocated violence.” 
from the ashes of the black Panther Party arose the black liberation army. In one of its first actions, bla members bombed the funeral of San francisco police officer Harold Hamilton in what would be the first of many attacks on police. In 1981, members of the bla hijacked Delta air lines flight 841 and demanded a million-dollar ransom to help fund their crimes. 
Certainly, the current black lives matter movement is not yet at black Panther levels of antigovernment terrorism. but history echoes loudly as protesters march through the streets of 2014 New york City, chanting “hands up, shoot back” and “we want dead cops.” The former of these calls to violence, of course, refers to the now-disproven claim that ferguson resident michael brown was killed while attempting to surrender. as with the mario Woods case, the shooting of Tamir rice, who reached for a bb gun when confronted by officers and the suicide in police custody of Sandra bland, organizations with an axe to grind spun brown’s death as an “execution” in a deliberate attempt to inflame the population against police. It worked better than they could have ever hoped. 
Sometimes, blm’s violence is indirect, such as death threats made against the defendants in officer-involved shootings. Other times, protesters have taken direct action, such as the destruction of police vehicles dur­ing the ferguson and baltimore riots or the throwing of molotov cocktails at the 4th Precinct headquarters of the minneapolis Police Department. In the most extreme case, this violence has turned deadly. 
On December 20, 2014, Ismaaiyl abdullah brinsley shot and killed Officers Wenjian liu and rafael ramos as they were sitting in their patrol car in bedford-Stuyvesant, New york, then ran into a subway station and took his own life. In social media postings prior to his death, brinsley claimed the assassination was revenge for the killings of michael brown and New yorker Eric Garner, who died resisting ar­rest that July. (for once, it was the left who rushed to empha­size the mental illness of the “bad guy with a gun.”) 
Ironically enough, beyoncé’s criticism of the SfPD didn’t stop her from accepting a California Highway Patrol escort on her way to perform at the Super bowl. Nor, indeed, did her inflammatory rhetoric and lionization of the black Panthers prevent the officers of the CHP from providing it for her. They put their lives on the line to ensure the safety of a woman who would shortly denounce them before mil­lions. Why? because her life matters. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LEttEr to thE EdItor 
10th annual Day of man 
To the communities of Notre Dame and Saint mary’s, 
Did you attend this past weekend’s Keenan revue and think to yourself, “I wish I could feel better about helplessly staring at scantily-clad men?” Do you like helping the homeless? If you answered yes to one — or more likely both — of these questions then do we have an event for you! 
This Wednesday, feb. 17, is Siegfried Hall’s 10th an­nual Day of man. Once again, the strapping lads of Siegfried Hall will brave the cold of february in South bend to stand in solidarity with our homeless brothers and sisters. Wearing at most a t-shirt, shorts and flip-flops (but let’s be honest, preferably less) the rambling men of Siegfried will be roaming campus, classrooms and dining halls asking for your support for the South bend Center for the Homeless. 
Homelessness impacts hundreds of thousands of people across the United States every year. It dispropor­tionately affects our nation’s veterans and causes irrep­arable damage to the bright futures of many children. During these cold winter months, homelessness not only puts those who suffer from it at an economic risk, but also a physical one. Over the last 10 years, we’ve been freezin’ for a reason: to raise money to support and aid the homeless in our South bend community. We cannot do this without your help. 
We ask your support, Notre Dame, so that as we freeze for one day, the homeless of our community may freeze no longer. No donation is too small, every dollar counts. If mountain Dew can spend 4.5 million dollars on a commercial about a “Puppymonkeybaby,” you can spend a couple dollars to help combat homelessness and its countless effects upon society. 
Alex Campbell 
senior 
Michael Hernick 
sophomore 
Shane Jenkins 
sophomore 


THE ObSErVEr | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | NDSmCObSErVEr.COm 
Hillary, you are the problem 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. Precedent 

Hillary Clinton was supposed to be the inevi­table Democratic presidential nominee this elec­tion season. In 2008, she won the New Hampshire primary by nearly 4 percent. On Tuesday, she lost New Hampshire by more than 22 percent to the 74-year-old Democratic Socialist who was supposed to be no more than a minor gadfly to her pending coronation as the standard bearer of the Democratic Party. CNN exit polls, cited by NbC’s Chuck Todd and the Washington Post, showed that the only age demographic where Clinton achieved a majority was with voters over the age of 65, and she couldn’t even reach 60 percent of that group. To make things worse, Clinton lost the woman vote to bernie Sanders by 11 percent. among voters who valued honesty and trust­worthiness as the most valuable trait in selecting a President, Sanders beat Clinton by a staggering 90 percent margin. The Clintons knew they would lose New Hampshire, but they didn’t know it would be by that much. 
Just a week before those results came in, Clinton proclaimed “Victory!” in Iowa when she beat Sanders by a mere 0.29 percent, according to the Des moines register. many news outlets and the Clinton cam­paign itself acted as if that was some massive tri­umph for Clinton. In my opinion, if the “inevitable frontrunner” wins by anything less than 10 per­cent, then he or she isn’t the inevitable frontrun­ner. Instead, Clinton virtually tied bernie Sanders. Clinton must be asking herself how she ever came so close as to tie a socialist in Iowa and to lose to him in New Hampshire? I count both of them as losses for the Clinton campaign, and I suspect her campaign might privately believe that, too. 
POlITICO broke a story on monday that Clinton was weighing a major campaign shakeup after her expected New Hampshire loss. “‘The Clintons are not happy and have been letting all of us know that,’ said one Democratic official who speaks regularly to both,” the article stated. Clinton moved sharply monday to quell the fears of donors and staffers after the report broke, saying she was behind her team, but not entirely dispelling the notion that the campaign would reevaluate. David axelrod, the architect be­hind both of barack Obama’s presidential campaigns, tweeted, “When the exact same problems crop up in separate campaigns, with different staff, at what point do the principals say, ‘Hey, maybe it’s US?’” 
Indeed, Hillary Clinton has an image problem. It’s one she’s been trying to deal with since her early days as first lady and her first Senate run in 2000. She simply does not come off as genuine or authentic to voters, and to date she hasn’t inspired her party with a real purpose. In the last Democratic debate, Clinton tried to make the case that she, too, was an outsider candidate. This suggestion was met with eye-rolls of anyone watching, and a Washington Post headline, “Hillary Clinton just suggested she’s not ‘establish­ment.’ Come on.” She struggled in 2008 and is strug­gling now, after her resume has been boosted by four years as Secretary of State. (although she seems to continually be outshined by her successor John Kerry, another failed presidential candidate, in all matters regarding foreign affairs.) We are truly seeing the same problems come up again. Clinton is des­perately trying to appeal to women (I reiterate that she decisively lost them in New Hampshire) by pull­ing in women political superstars such as madeleine albright and Jeanne Shaheen. bill Clinton is attack­ing bernie Sanders in a similar fashion to how he attacked barack Obama in 2008. 
Now, more and more people are coming around to the idea that Sanders might be a viable option for the Democrats to win in November. Ta-Nehisi-Coates, influential writer for the left-leaning political maga­zine The atlantic, has decided to throw his support behind Sanders. yes, Hillary performs better among more diverse states, but when an african american rights thought leader, who often leads the charge on political issues for that community, endorses her op­ponent, trouble could be brewing. Jesse Jackson, civil rights activist and another african american rights thought leader, has questioned the Congressional black Caucus PaC’s endorsement of Clinton (it’s also worth noting that Congressional black Caucus mem­ber Keith Ellison has endorsed Sanders). She’s bound to perform better in South Carolina, albeit at lesser margins than she may expect, but it’s possible she could lose Nevada. With the still-unresolved email scandal as the Department of State in a party and electorate that increasingly values trustworthiness and transparency, Clinton may very well find herself losing ground. 
While I believe Clinton will still ultimately win the nomination, I am certainly less sure in that predic­tion than I was a year ago, or even a month ago. On a similar note, I would caution Democrats against being so sure that she could also beat the republican nominee. The campaign isn’t the problem. The po­litical environment isn’t the problem. Early primary states are not the problem. as the Washington Post’s Chris Cillizza writes, “The lone, major common thread between the 2008 campaign and the 2016 campaign is Hillary Clinton.” 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying  accountancy. He welcomes any challenges to his  opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LEttEr to thE EdItor: ImmIGrAtIon sErIEs 
Don’t separate our Notre Dame family 
five days after we celebrated New year’s with our family and friends back home, Immigration Control and Enforcement (ICE) raided the homes of Central american families in nearby Elkhart. 
In 2015, 100,000 Central american families crossed our nation’s U.S.-mexico border. This figure is part of a larger five-year trend, due to an increase in eco­nomic and political instability in countries such as El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras. El Salvador’s homicide rate is almost 90 times higher than that of the United States. Honduras is notorious for its orga­nized crime and corruption. all three countries rank in the top five most dangerous countries according to a U.N. report on homicide rates. 
Due to the limited visas available to citizens of Central america, these families are forced to under­take the dangerous task of crossing the United States’ southern border. migrants who cross the Sonoran desert into arizona face dehydration, hyperthermia, dangerous wildlife and violence at the hands of coy­otes (hired guides) or drug smugglers. They are risk­ing their lives to make it to the U.S., yet when they finally arrive, they are met with the threat of deporta­tion and raids like those that took place in Elkhart. 
In response to the recent influx of families crossing the border, the Department of Homeland Security ordered the immediate removal of hundreds of un­documented individuals. ICE raided the homes of families not just in Elkhart, but all across the country. The raided families had previously been detained. However, because of the huge numbers of detainees and a lack of detention space, many were released and told to return for later court proceedings regard­ing their deportation. Those who didn’t show or were rejected asylum in the U.S. are the recent targets of the ICE raids. 
These raids tear families apart. 88 percent of the children of immigrant-headed households are native-born citizens, meaning that when undocumented parents are deported, their children are usually forced to either live with relatives or enter the foster care system. Some politicians argue that the solution to family separation is to deport entire families, in­cluding U.S.-born children. However, these children are entitled to the rights and opportunities bestowed upon them as citizens of the United States. 
During our trip to the Southern arizona borders, we gathered at Kino border Initiative, a Catholic bi-national organization, and met Joanna Williams, the Director of Education and advocacy. With her, we read testimonies of families for which she advocates. many of the stories were accounts of family separa­tion. mothers, who had been living in the United States for a good amount of time, were deported away from their U.S.-born children. These women consid­ered the United States their home and were fearful of the violence they would face if they returned to their native countries. Our government promises fam­ily reunification as one of its main tenets of border policy, but as these testimonies and raids in Elkhart prove, this is not the case. Instead, we label children of migrants, “anchor children” and violently raid homes of our neighbors, friends and family. 
The Notre Dame community consistently em­phasizes the importance of family. moreover, as a Catholic institution, Notre Dame consistently em­phasizes the values of Catholic Social Teaching. CST and Catholic tradition highlight family as important to community participation. family is an institu­tion that should not be undermined or threatened. Pope John Paul II’s 1999 book, “Ecclesia in america,” highlights the rights of migrant families and the re­spect for human dignity “even in cases of non-legal immigration.” These current deportations do not respect the importance of family and go against the very basis of Catholic Social Teaching. as Notre Dame students it is our responsibility to draw attention to these deportations and advocate for immigration reform that does not actively tear families apart. 
Notre Dame, it’s alumni, students, faculty and larger South bend area are a family. Our university has strong ties to the latino population in the region. latino american families are an integral part of the greater South bend community and our very univer­sity. They are a part of the Notre Dame family, our family and we cannot stand by and allow them to be separated. 
Jackie Zink 
senior 
Allison Verrilli 
sophomore 




Crossword | WIll SHOrTZ 

Just Add wAtEr | JOHN rODDy & ErIC CarlSON sudoku | THE mEPHam GrOUP 


fLInG by sPrInG | rIlEy mCCUrrIE 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

horosCoPE | EUGENIa laST 
Happy Birthday: Ease into everything you do this year. Take on what’s most important to you and what offers the most in return. There is no point wasting time on the impossible when there is so much value in putting your skills to work masterfully. In the end, it’s what you do for yourself that will count the most. your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 24, 27, 31, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Offer what you can to others, but not at the expense of your own plans and ambitions. your eager, energetic personality could make it easy for others to take advantage of you. Charity begins at home. Offer advice, not monetary help. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Keep your anger under control and your energy headed in a productive direction. There is much you can accomplish if you clearly outline your goals. Spend time with someone you feel passionately about. attentive behavior will improve your personal life. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make a difference and do something helpful for someone too old or too young to take on certain responsibilities. you will find valuable information that can give you a head start on a project or plan you want to pursue. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Try to be open to change rather than fighting it. Once you start heading in a direction that flows smoothly, you will make gains that you never thought were possible in the past. money and marriage look promising. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don’t let problems at home dictate your mood or cause you uncertainty. Communicate with others and make suggestions that will bring about important changes in your life. romance is encouraged. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll have lots of energy, but your emotions will interfere with getting things done. Too much of anything will work against you. Uncertainty is the enemy, so dig deep and find out what you need to know and move forward quickly. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Don’t hesitate because someone is trying to disrupt your plans or lead you astray. Use your intelligence and you will find a way to put everything in place to secure your life. a financial, legal or contractual gain is likely. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a different route than usual. Whether traveling, communicating or starting a new endeavor, consider all the angles and let your uniqueness guide you. you’ll gain experience and grab attention if you are true to your beliefs, desires and your heart. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Check out someone’s motives if what they are offering seems too good to be true. Put more effort into making your home safe and your surroundings comfortable. learn from what the people you encounter say and do. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look for a creative outlet or a way to mix work with pleasure. Having fun with people you want to conduct business with will put you at an advantage when heavy decisions need to be made. romance will improve your day. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stop stressing over things you cannot change. anger, regret and living in the past will stand between you and future victories. look for positive changes that will help you use what you enjoy doing to bring in extra cash. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don’t lose out because you aren’t aware of all the facts. It’s up to you to ask questions and gather whatever information is required to make a worthwhile choice or change. ask for favors and offer an incentive in return. 


Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, intelligent and innovative. you are intuitive and particular. 
JumbLE | DaVID HOyT aND JEff KNUrEK 

To receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The Observer P.O. box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name 
address 

City State Zip 

NDSmCObSErVEr.COm | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | THE ObSErVEr 

sPorts AuthorIty 

bring free agency to college level 

Daniel O’Boyle 
Sports Writer 
This is a quiet time of year in sports. The Nfl season is over, college football is over, the mlb season hasn’t started yet. The Nba, NHl and college basketball are all going on, but none of them are at the playoffs. for football in particular, an offseason lasting around half the year can be a long time without seeing a game for the casual fan, but some of the most interesting developments of the year happen in the offseason: I’m talking of course about free agency. 
you’re probably thinking about how the Denver broncos used high-profile free agent sign­ings like Evan mathis in 2015, Demarcus Ware in 2014 and of course Peyton manning in 2012 to build a Super bowl-winning team. That’s nice, sure, but it al­ready gets all the attention. you can easily find a list of the best Nfl free agents of the year, most of whom will re-sign anyway or else be massive disappointments on their new teams. 
but what about college free agency? The recruiting cycle gets attention, but that alone isn’t how you build a team anymore. These days, you have to keep on adding. That means a good team should always look to add a couple free agents — or as they’re called in the college world, “transfers” — in the offseason. 
Jake rudock made the switch from Utah to a team desperately in need of a signal-caller and with a coach who could guide him to success in Jim Harbaugh’s michigan; Chad Kelly, who left Clemson after conduct issues, found success as Ole miss’s alabama-slaying star. and then there’s baker mayfield, who played like one of the best quar­terbacks in the country after leav­ing Texas Tech for Oklahoma, and Jake Coker, whose transfer from florida State to the Crimson Tide allowed him to win a national championship as a starter. 
With Nfl free agency, you know when a player is likely to leave. but part of the excitement of college free agency is that it remains a mystery. We’ve already seen two of the highest-profile free agents, Kyle allen and Kyler murray, both leave Texas a&m for pastures green at Houston and Oklahoma, respectively. Oklahoma’s chance to pull out another success story and be­come the school every recruit wishes to transfer to after leav­ing the school they originally sign with looks to make them the winners of free agency so far. 
on the depth chart and get out? Which spread offense star will think about his Nfl future and move to an offense that will im­press scouts? What will happen to those players kicked off of their original teams, and which coach will be kind enough to look past their transgressions, look inside their hearts, look straight at that blazing-fast 40 time and give a player a second chance? 
Sure, a few things restrict transferring a little. a gradu­ated player can transfer freely (provided he wishes to pursue graduate studies in a course not offered at their original school, which by complete coincidence, many high-profile quarterbacks do), but non-graduates cannot. The NCaa’s reasoning is based on something called “academics,” but for high-profile college foot­ball teams, this factor is purely athletic. Do you really need to worry about transferring affect­ing your GPa when a 144-word essay can get you an a-? let’s phase out the charade that college football has much at all to do with college, starting with the transfer restrictions. 
Then there’s the NCaa’s salary cap. The Nfl salary cap has risen to around five times its original value since it was introduced, but the NCaa hasn’t tried to keep up, letting its cap remain around $0. Sure, teams can go a little over the cap without repercussions if they’re quiet about it, and I doubt there’s a team in the country that doesn’t take advantage, but this just creates a system in which teams get punished for being a little more public. let’s give the teams in serious cap trouble a little more breathing room. We could extend this rule change to basketball, too, because cash is probably a more sensible way to pay players than prostitutes. 
While we’re at it, we could let a few smaller colleges act as farm teams for the bigger ones, forming mutually-beneficial relationships. Hey, why not let teams move, too? The miami Hurricanes can’t fill their stadium? Well there’s a foot­ball-hungry crowd waiting in St. louis for a new team, it just makes so much sense to allow “The U” to find a new home. 
let’s face it, college football more or less acts like a profes­sional league already. Coaches get paid well into the millions, the connection between so many teams and university academics is tenuous at best and the in­dustry both takes in and spends billions of dollars a year. maybe we should treat the players like professionals. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at 

nCAA womEn’s bAskEtbALL | SOUTH CarOlINa 62, TENNESSEE 56 
Gamecocks clinch share of SEC championship 
Associated Press 

KNOXVIllE, Tenn. — a’ja Wilson scored 25 points and had five blocks as No. 3 South Carolina beat No. 24 Tennessee 62-56 on monday night to clinch at least a share of its third straight Southeastern Conference women’s basketball title. 
South Carolina (24-1, 12-0) won the SEC regular-season championship outright in 2014 and tied Tennessee for first place last season. The Gamecocks can clinch the championship outright Thursday by beating Georgia. 
Tennessee (15-10, 6-6) led 35-32 in the third quarter be­fore South Carolina’s Tiffany mitchell scored six straight points to help the Gamecocks take control. after hitting a game-tying 3-pointer, mitchell made a basket that put South Carolina ahead for good with 
2:47 left in the third. 

The lady Vols were within three points with seven min­utes left before South Carolina went on a 12-2 run to seal the victory. 
Diamond DeShields scored 21 points and bashaara Graves had 13 points and 10 rebounds for Tennessee. Khadijah Sessions had 13 points and mitchell add­ed 12 for South Carolina 
South Carolina has won its last three games with Tennessee, the program that has traditionally ruled the SEC. South Carolina won the only regular-season meeting be­tween these two teams last year in Columbia and also knocked off the lady Volunteers in the SEC tournament championship game. 
but the Gamecocks hadn’t had much success in Knoxville be­fore monday. This marked only the second time in 23 attempts that South Carolina has beaten the lady Vols in Knoxville. The other South Carolina victory over Tennessee in Knoxville was a 64-60 decision in 2012. 
South Carolina withstood a scoreless performance from alaina Coates, who entered the night averaging 12.5 points per game. Coates did have 10 rebounds. 
Tennessee led for most of a first half that was dominated by defense before South Carolina rallied to pull ahead 24-21 at the intermission. The two teams combined for 17 turnovers and just seven assists in the first half, as both shot below 33 per­cent from the floor. 
Tennessee regained the lead by scoring the first six points of the third quarter during a stretch in which Coates picked up her third foul and a tech­nical foul was called on the Gamecocks’ bench. 
The game continued going back and forth the rest of the third quarter until mitchell’s spurt helped South Carolina take command. 
nhL | DUCKS 6, flamES 4 

flames fall to Ducks after fierce first period 
Associated Press 

CalGary, alberta — Corey Perry had a goal and an as­sist monday, and the anaheim Ducks went a perfect 3 for 3 on the power play in a 6-4 victory over the Calgary flames. 
The flames led 3-2 after an action-packed first period, but with Johnny Gaudreau in the penalty box, Perry banged Cam fowler’s rebound past Jonas Hiller to tie it early in the second. 
The Ducks went right back to the man advantage when Jakub Nakladal was called for holding and needed only 11 seconds to convert, with a rebound deflect­ing off several players and going in off the skate of Sami Vatanen to put anaheim into the lead for good. 
mike Santorelli, with a pair of goals, Hamphus lindholm and rickard rakell also scored for anaheim. The Ducks, 9-1-1 in their past 11 games, leapfrogged San Jose into second place in the Pacific Division. 
The Ducks are 3-1-1 with two games to go on a seven-game road trip. 
Jiri Hudler had two goals and an assist to lead Calgary. Gaudreau had a goal and two assists and Sean monahan had three assists as the flames’ top line combined for nine points. Dougie Hamilton also scored. 
Hiller was pulled after Vatanen’s goal, leaving with 13 saves on 17 shots. Joni Ortio, in his first NHl action since October, didn’t fare much bet­ter. He was beaten on the sec­ond shot he faced, as rakell’s goal put the Ducks ahead 5-3. 
Calgary got back within one with 7 seconds left in the mid­dle period on Hudler’s second of the night, as he slid a shot past frederik andersen after monahan had hit the crossbar. 
The Ducks regained their two-goal cushion 51 sec­onds into the third period on Santorelli’s second goal, chip­ping a rebound over Ortio. 
The flames continued strug­gling while playing short­handed; their 29th-ranked penalty-kill unit surrendered three goals for the third straight game. 
andersen finished with 33 saves. Ortio finished with nine saves. 
Panthers 2, Penguins 1 

SUNrISE, fla. (aP) — Jussi Jokinen scored the winning goal in a shootout to lead the florida Panthers over the Pittsburgh Penguins 2-1 on monday. 
Nick bjugstad also scored in the shootout and in regulation for the Panthers. al montoya made 31 saves. 
The Panthers won for the first time in three games, and beat Pittsburgh for the first time in three games this season. 
after Jokinen scored, montoya stopped matt Cullen in the fifth round of the shoot­out to seal the win. Sidney Crosby scored in the shootout for the Penguins. 
Chris Kunitz scored in regu­lation for the Penguins and marc-andre fleury stopped 27 shots. 
Kunitz scored with 3:19 left in regulation to tie it at 1. Kunitz shot from the slot and it went over montoya’s glove and under the crossbar. 
The Panthers took a 1-0 lead on bjugstad’s goal in the first. alex Petrovic passed from above the right circle to bjugstad to the left of the crease. His one-timer got past fleury at 7:30. The goal was bjugstad’s first in nine games. 
Jaromir Jagr celebrated his 44th birthday on monday, but was held pointless. Jagr is the fifth non-goalie to play in an NHl game at 44 years or older. 

but what keeps things exciting doboyle1@nd.edu in college is the unpredictability. The views expressed in this Which highly-recruited quarter-Sports Authority are those of the back will realize he finds himself author and not necessarily those behind three five-star recruits of The Observer. 


THE ObSErVEr | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | NDSmCObSErVEr.COm 

w Lax 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 12 
we want to come to come out fast, we want to come out strong, but we also un­derstand that we’re playing one of the toughest, if not the toughest, schedules in the country, and that’ll play itself out as the season goes. 
“but we know that’s what the first 15 minutes of a game will look like, we’re feeling each other out, we’re reading each other’s defenses, we’re reading each other’s scout re­ports. So I wasn’t really con­cerned at all because we were still battling, their first four goals were all off the 8-meter. So it wasn’t so much that we were getting torched, it was more that we just had to get out on their hands a little bit earlier so we weren’t giving away those fouls.” 
Two Irish goals before half­time helped close the gap, but the Cardinal were able to bring the difference back to three goals with 20 minutes remaining. from there, the Irish took over. Eight unan­swered goals in the next 15 minutes gave the Irish a 12-7 lead. Halfpenny said defen­sive adjustments helped her team control the game. 
“I think a lot of credit today goes to Stanford for coming out,” Halfpenny said. “They’re a really great opponent, really well-coached, very prepared to play us. They jumped out ahead but ultimately I think that the final outcome speaks to the maturity of our team, their will to win and continu­ally adjust and get back to the way we play. So I couldn’t be more excited about seeing the maturity of our team, and our willingness to play one play at a time, and I think that starts with our defense. Once we made some adjustments and got Stanford off the 8-meter, that started to fuel those of­fensive opportunities and also allowed us to start win­ning the draws and going on that 8-0 run.” 
Graduate student defender and 2015 Tewaaraton award finalist barbara Sullivan led that defensive performance. Sullivan, who led the aCC in caused turnovers in 2015, continued her defensive dominance from last year by tying a school record with seven caused turnovers, as well as recording a game-high six draw controls and three ground balls. Halfpenny said Sullivan’s committed mentality helps her to con­sistently deliver impressive performances on defense. 
“That’s just barbara do­ing what barbara does,” Halfpenny said. “She’s a unique and special athlete and she’s a winner. I know that sounds cliche, but the reality is barbara’s willing to do whatever it takes to put her team on her back, to do the lit­tle things. She fuels and mo­tivates everybody to do their jobs and I think the way she battles again was just a sig­nature of who she is and ob­viously it’s synonymous with our brand. We fight, we’re aggressive, we’re fast, we’re passionate. barbara was so passionate today, and we were so thrilled that she got her fifth year here.” 
Stanford junior attacker Kelsey mitchell, who had five total goals on the day, ended the run, but a Notre Dame to one another, they started talking a bit more, they just took care of the little things and ultimately that made big plays happen. Individual and collective efforts really helped that.” 


Notre Dame’s next contest will be on feb. 21, when the Irish open aCC play at home against boston College. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
goal from junior midfielder alex Dalton just nine sec­onds after the draw put any Cardinal hopes of a comeback to rest. Halfpenny said she felt her team was always capable of such a run once they settled into the game. 
“It’s a long game, it’s 60 min­utes,” Halfpenny said. “I think we got that momentum just by settling ourselves down and going back to playing the way we trained. The team looked 


softball 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 12 
of the season, as she allowed eight runs, seven earned, in six-plus innings. 
On the last day of the Kajikawa Classic, the Irish bat­tled Georgia State. The offense had its best game of the week­end, as arizmendi, rochford and junior outfielder Karley Wester each had three hits, powering the Irish to a 10-4 win over the Panthers (0-5). 
following the weekend’s ac­tion, Irish associate coach Kris Ganeff said the coaching staff was pleased with the team’s 
offensive  performance  after  
shuffling  the  lineup  several  
times.  
“We’re  still  at  that  point  

where we are trying to create evidence like who’s going to get it done for us, so we have to switch people in and out of the lineup,” Ganeff said. “We’re trying new combinations, so we’re looking at it as a process. 
“We want to continue putting up runs. We were doing a really good job of that this weekend. … I like where our bats are at and, traditionally, that’s usu­ally a little bit slower to start, so considering the level of compe­tition we were playing, that was something we want to continue to do. That’s our strength here at Notre Dame softball.” 
regarding the pitching staff, though, Ganeff said the weekend showed the impor­tance of developing depth in the circle. Despite some incon­sistency, the staff as a whole showed enough to warrant continuing pitching everyone down the road, Ganeff said. 
“We definitely know at this point in the season that we’re definitely a pitch-by-commit­tee [staff],” Ganeff said. “We have got to use them all. We have five pitchers, and we’re going to need them. It’s a long season; you don’t want lineups to get too many looks at them. you don’t want their pitch counts to get too high this early in the season. That’s not some­thing you traditionally look at in softball, but we’re trying to [in order] to maximize [their] longevity.” 
In addition to working with and stretching out their pitch­ers, Ganeff said the team also needs to sharpen its defense and prevent its opponents from having a big inning. 
“We want to see our defense continue to make big plays when we need it,” Ganeff said. “There were a few times where we were let down on that, so that’s something that we need to focus in on.” 
The Irish will next take the field friday when they travel to Cathedral City, California, to compete in the mary Nutter Collegiate Classic. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


m tennis 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 12 
looking to spark the team, Sachire did some shuffling in the lineup for the Irish, breaking up the nationally ranked doubles tandem of se­nior standouts alex lawson and Quentin monaghan and placing them with junior Eddy Covalschi and fresh­man Grayson broadus, re­spectively. The reshuffled doubles tandem is an experi­ment of Sachire’s, and one that has garnered positive re­sults so far as the Irish started the match by capturing the doubles point with their new lineup. 
“The purpose was to in­ject some confidence into the other guys,” Sachire said. “Putting Eddy with alex at the number one has been great, as [Eddy] has gotten a great shot of confidence. I think it’s real­ly helped Grayson a lot as well, putting him with a senior like Quentin, and that confidence has really translated to his singles game as well.” 
The shuffling of the doubles tandems has had a ripple ef­fect on the players’ singles game as well, as Covalschi defeated michigan redshirt­sophomore Davis Crocker 6-0, 6-1, while broadus closed the match with a strong singles performance, showing poise in a 6-4, 2-6, 7-5 victory over michigan freshman myles Schalet. monaghan, junior Josh Hagar, and senior Eric Schnurrenberger also picked up victories in the singles por­tion of the match. 
With the win, the Irish moved above .500 for the first time since the second week of the season. after suffering a four-match losing streak ear­lier in the season, Sachire says he’s seeing a lot of resilience from his team. 
“Our guys work hard,” Sachire said. “It was tough sledding early on in the sea­son, but our guys bounced back and worked harder than ever. michigan is safe to say a top-25 team, so to walk away with a 6-1 win is a huge con­fidence boost for our guys. We’re trending upwards.” 
The Irish will next see ac­tion this Saturday, host­
ing  Kentucky  and  Western  
michigan  at  Eck  Tennis  
Pavilion.  

Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu 

NDSmCObSErVEr.COm | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | THE ObSErVEr 

nd womEn’s tEnnIs | ND 4, PITTSbUrGH 3; mICHIGaN 5, ND 2 
Notre Dame wins first aCC match, falls in ann arbor 
Observer Staff Report 

Over the weekend, the Irish bested Pittsburgh, 4-3, to ex­tend their winning streak to three games. However, Notre Dame then had its winning streak snapped Sunday by michigan as the Irish fell to the Wolverines, 5-2. 
The Irish (4-3, 1-0 aCC) were led by senior Quinn Gleason and junior mary Closs on friday against the Panthers (3-1, 0-1). Gleason defeated Pittsburgh ju­nior lolade Ogungbesan 6-4, 6-4 at the No. 1 court, but Gleason and her dou­bles partner, junior monica robinson, lost a close 6-4 match to the Panther team of Ogungbesan and redshirt junior amber Washington in the top doubles flight. 
Going into the final two games of the day, the Irish led 3-2, but they soon found themselves tied 3-3 as senior Julie Vrabel fought her way back to a tie-breaking third set against Washington but came up short by a score of 6-4, 2-6, 6-1. Closs proved to be the hero for the Irish on Court No. 4, as she out­matched Pittsburgh sopho­more Callie frey in three sets 2-6, 7-6, 6-0. Closs’ win gave Notre Dame the 4-3 victory. Sophomore allison miller also earned the Irish a point with her 6-0, 6-1 victory over Pittsburgh freshman Carina ma. 
Notre Dame’s momen­tum came to an abrupt stop Sunday as the Irish lost to the Wolverines (5-2) in ann arbor, michigan. 
The match started poorly for the Irish, with the No. 


richartz 
CONTINUED frOm PaGE 12 
looking in I can see how It might seem I could be over­looked. but I wouldn’t say I feel overlooked. The sup­port I get from the coaches and the rest of the team goes along way in making me feel I am a part of something big­ger, something more than myself or any individual ac­complishments. I draw a lot of inspiration from the suc­cess of my fellow teammates, and their success motivates me to do better and raise my expectations of what I’m capable of, and what Notre Dame track and field is ca­pable of as a whole.” 
High expectations may be new to richartz this year, but success is not. last sea­son, richartz earned sec­ond-team all-american honors after placing 14th in 15-ranked doubles pairing of Gleason and robinson losing to michigan’s duo of freshman brienne minor and sophomore mira ruder-Hook at No. 1 doubles, 6-4. Gleason also lost to No. 17-ranked michigan senior ronit yurovsky in singles play in the top match. ruder-Hook defeated Closs, 6-2, 7-6, michigan freshman Teona Velehorschi felled Vrabel, 6-2, 6-3, and another michigan 

the NCaa outdoor champi­onships. richartz said that after last year’s success, he has even higher hopes for this year. 
“last year was a pleasant surprise, so I had to take a step back and re-evaluate my goals for this season,” richartz said. “as a season-long goal, I’d like to jump 
5.50 [meters]. This might sneak me into trials but it ultimately depends on how high other people jump this year, it could be 5.55 or 5.60, but we [coach Jim Garnham and I] think 5.50 has a good chance. I’d like to qualify for the NCaa in­door championships, and earn first-team all-american status at the NCaa outdoor championships.” 
To earn all-american sta­tus for a second straight sea­son, richartz will have to continue improving — his season’s best is 5.30 meters freshman, Kate fahey bested miller, 6-2, 6-1. 
The lone wins for the Irish came from robinson, who upset No. 14 minor at No. 2 singles, 7-5, 1-6, 6-4, and ju­nior Jane fennelly, who won out against michigan sopho­more alex Najarian on the fifth court, 6-3, 5-7, 10-3. 
Notre Dame next faces Purdue on Wednesday in West lafayette, Indiana, at 3 p.m. 
— but he is optimistic about improving. 
“I’ve always been my own biggest critic, and I feel that maintaining a critical mind­set is particularly important to success in the pole vault,” richartz said. “One thing I’m most excited about mov­ing forward towards the aCC championships is there are plenty of things I can still improve in my technique to make my vault more effi­cient, along with getting on bigger poles. 
“The plan is to tackle one thing at a time and continue with a critical mindset to keep improving. I take com­fort in finding what little details I can improve on, be­cause the day I have nothing left to fix technically is the day I won’t be able to go any higher.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


THE ObSErVEr | tuEsdAy, fEbruAry 16, 2016 | NDSmCObSErVEr.COm 
nd womEn’s LACrossE | ND 13, STaNfOrD 9 
Second-half surge pushes Notre Dame past Stanford 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Trailing 7-4 to No. 15 Stanford in the second half of Saturday’s contest, No. 9 Notre Dame found the net eight consecutive times to guide the Irish to a 13-9 victory. 
The Irish (2-0) created of­fensive opportunities early on, but were punished for fouls inside the 8-meter arc. although Notre Dame led the Cardinal (0-1) in shots by a margin of 11-4, it was Stanford who led the game 4-1, with each Stanford goal coming from free-position shots. 
Irish head coach Christine Halfpenny said she was not worried when her team fell behind early on. 
“When you look at it, I think that Stanford controlled 25 percent of the game and we controlled 75 percent,” Halfpenny said. “like I said, 
see W laX PAGE 10 


trACk & fIELd 

richartz pushes for NCaa spot 
By MAREK MAZUREK  
Sports Writer 

When the Irish compete in the aCC indoor cham­pionships in two weeks, Nathan richartz’s name is unlikely to be the first one mentioned. That honor will likely go to senior all­americans molly Seidel or margaret bamgbose. 
Though he often doesn’t get same level of recogni­tion as some of the team’s stars, the junior pole-vault­er also plays a big role in Notre Dame’s success. 
So far this season, richartz has placed first at three competitions: the blue & Gold Invitational, the Notre Dame Invitational and the meyo Invitational. richartz said his early suc­cess stems from his mental preparation. 
“I would attribute my success thus far to overall mental toughness” richartz said. “I have matured a lot as a vaulter in my time at Notre Dame and have learned to trust myself in high-pressure situations. but it is not just big mo­ment, meet-day mental toughness, another aspect I’ve been working on is dai­ly focus and attention to de­tail, which helps me get the most out of my training and practice sessions.” 
and though he may get overshadowed by the likes of Seidel and bamgbose, richartz sees the team’s star power as a positive and uses the success of his teammates to push himself towards higher achievements. 
“molly [Seidel] and margaret [bamgbose] are incredible runners and are hands down a couple of the most accomplished and reputable athletes on the squad,” richartz said. “So yeah, from the outside 
see rICHarTZ PAGE 11 
mEn’s tEnnIs | ND 6, Um 1 
Irish top big Ten rival 
By JOE EVERETT 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame put forth a strong performance Saturday afternoon, dominating ri­val michigan by a score of 6-1. Now winners of three straight matches, the Irish (5­
4) knocked off the Wolverines (5-2), who came into Eck Tennis Pavilion fresh off a five-match winning streak, including a 7-0 thrashing of No. 25 Duke the previous Sunday. Considering the trou­ble the Irish have had against top competition, head coach ryan Sachire said the victory against michigan was a big one. 
“It was certainly the best match we’ve played this sea­son,” Sachire said. “I think the level of competition that we’ve played at earlier in the year definitely showed, be­cause anytime michigan went on a run, we were able to respond.” 
see m TENNIS PAGE 11 

nd softbALL | ND 2, UTaH 1; KENTUCKy 10, ND 7; ND 4, byU 2; CalIfOrNIa 8, ND 7; ND 10, GEOrGIa STaTE 4 
ND gets three wins to open season 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Sports Writer 

No. 24 Notre Dame com­peted in the Kajikawa Classic in Tempe, arizona, to open its season this past weekend and finished with a record of 3-2. 
The Irish (3-2) began their tournament on friday with a doubleheader, battling No. 23 Utah in the after­noon before taking on No. 18 Kentucky in the evening. 
In their first game, the Irish and the Utes (3-3) struggled to get things going offensively. Senior pitcher allie rhodes pitched seven innings of one-run ball, but only received one run of sup­port as the game went into extra innings. Junior pitch­er rachel Nasland entered the game in the top of the eighth and pitched a score­less inning, and senior first baseman micaela arizmendi drove in freshman utility player ali Wester in the bot­tom of the inning to give the Irish a 2-1 victory. 
In the nightcap, the Irish found themselves in battle of high-powered offenses with the Wildcats (5-1). arizmendi knocked in three runs while freshman pitcher Caitlyn brooks had three hits, including a home run, and four rbIs for the Irish. However, the Wildcats were able to get to brooks and sophomore pitchers Katie beriont and Sara White for 10 runs and hand the Irish their first loss of the season, 10-7. 
On day two of the tourna­ment, the Irish once again split their doubleheader, knocking off byU, 4-2, in the afternoon before falling to No. 21 California in the eve­ning, 8-7. 
against the Cougars (3-2), Nasland pitched four-plus innings of no-hit ball in re­lief of brooks, forcing the game into extra innings. In the bottom of the eighth in­ning, arizmendi hit a game-winning, two-run home run to give the Irish the 4-2 victory. 
In the evening, however, the Irish fell to the bears (4­
1) in another offensive bat­tle, 8-7. freshman infielder melissa rochford hit her first career home run and drove in three runs, but rhodes struggled in her second start 
see SOfTball PAGE 10 






