tHe inDepenDent newspaper servinG notre Dame anD saint mary’s 



‘Walk the Walk Week’ honors MLK’s legacy 
Midnight March kicks off week of celebrations 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
Hundreds of candles shined through a cold winter night as notre Dame students, faculty and staff congregated at mid­night to celebrate the legacy of martin luther king Jr. early monday morning. 
the midnight march and prayer service was the kick­off event for the inaugural walk the walk week at notre Dame, a series of events de­signed to reflect on king’s legacy and promote diversity 
see marcH PAGE 3 



#BlackLivesMatter founders speak on its message 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
patrisse cullors and opal tometi, who, along with alicia Garza, started the hashtag #blacklivesmatter as a response to the acquittal of George Zimmerman in the trayvon martin case, gave the keynote lecture for walk the walk week on monday night to a crowd of over 500 students, staff and commu­nity members. 
cullors and tometi said the phrase started in a Facebook 
see HasHtaG PAGE 4 




Professor lectures on laws and justice 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
although laws are cre­ated to form a more just so­ciety, martin luther king Jr. demonstrated that laws themselves can be unjust, according to Fr. Dominic legge, an instructor in sys­tematic theology at the inquiry into religion and public life. 
“part of Dr. king’s argu­ment concerns ... the rela­tionship between justice and the dignity of the human per­son. because of the people we are, we have dignity and claims to this dignity that other people should respect,” legge said. 


Faculty research legalized gambling and its revenue 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
He has only been to one casino in his lifetime, and the only lottery ticket he has ever owned was given to him by a friend, but pro­fessor of political science patrick pierce has become an expert on the politics of 
working together for 15 years, pierce and miller did a study on how lottery rev­enue was being used and then did more localized case studies to explain why states legalized gambling, why they established state lotteries and how gambling 

“what lots of folks don’t understand is how that affects the budget­ary process,” pierce said. “everybody thought when you say the lotto revenue was going toward education, that that would be on top of what we already spend for education.” 
However, pierce said some states substitute the lottery 
revenue going towards edu­
cation for part of the general 
revenue allocated for educa­
tion, freeing up some of the 
revenue to go wherever the 
state legislature wants to use it. 
He said because there was such a large understand­ing that the revenue would supplement the education budget, using it as a substi­tution was deceptive of state legislatures. He said in the long haul, by having an edu­cation lottery, states were actually spending less mon­ey on education than they would have if the money had come from general revenue. 
“this is a problem in the 
see GamblinG PAGE 3 

Dominican House of studies. according to legge, Dr. 
legalized gambling. 
“sometimes it is possible king argued individuals can-in the 1990s, saint mary’s 
that the positive law makes not appeal to the opinion of started a number of grants 
something legal that should the masses to determine if a to support faculty research 
be illegal. it certainly hap-law is just. and teaching. pierce said 
pened in totalitarian states “His argument is that dis-he and Donald miller, a 
like nazi Germany, but it also has happened in the united states in the 1960s. even a democratic society can create an ‘illegal’ law,” legge said. “it was actually illegal to help fellow Jews in nazi Germany, but would we not have helped these oppressed?” 
legge spoke monday after­noon on “martin luther king Jr. and the Question of ‘illegal laws’: civil law Justice, and morality,” an event spon­sored by the constitutional studies Department and the tocqueville program for crimination goes against this dignity, and this is his basis for arguing that racial segre­gation is unjust,” he said. “He appeals to the basic truth of what human beings are, and no law can go against that basic human dignity.” 
legge focused on the fact that racial segregation was never actually illegal, ac­cording to the constitution or even local law. 
For examples of this re­ality, legge said one can look at some supreme court 
see laws PAGE 3 
professor of mathemat­ics at the college, received the costar grant, which was designed to support re­search across disciplines. 
“[miller] and i were close friends, and he decided that he would like to work with me on one of these research projects,” pierce said. “He was from the state of ohio. ohio had an education lot­tery. [miller] was an essen­tially skeptical person about politics and government, and he just believed that ed­ucation lottery wasn’t really helping education in ohio.” 
spread the way it did. they compiled their research into a book titled “Gambling politics: state Government and the business of betting.” 
pierce said it is largely un­derstood that the revenue from casinos and state lot­teries would be used for a specific purpose. although the state could put the rev­enue in the general revenue pool, he said, some states chose to designate it for a specific purpose, most often education. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoint PAGE 7 scene PAGE 5 women’s basketball PAGE 12 nD women’s tennis PAGE 12 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre Dame, in 46556 024 south Dining Hall, notre Dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Greg Hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney                        cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary Green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret Hynds Viewpoint Editor: tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite album right now? 


Alexis Alvarez 
senior 
Holy cross Hall 
“‘talking is Hard,’ by walk the moon” 
Beruchya Dao-Bai 
junior 
mcGlinn Hall 
“‘25,’ by adele.” 
Christian Bean 
junior 
regina Hall 
“‘purpose,’ by Justin bieber.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Lukas O’Donnell 
junior 
Duncan Hall 
“‘anything,’ by nick Jonas.” 
Katherine Everett 
senior 
mcGlinn Hall 
“‘carrie and lowell,’ by sufjan stevens.” 
Julia Murray 
junior 
Howard Hall 
“‘Hamilton’ soundtrack.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Want your event included here? 
Scene Desk 

(574)631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 

(574)631-8839 Social Concerns Fair Islamophobia in “Finding Vivian Labor Café Men’s Basketball vs. Geddes Hall Europe Panel Maier” Geddes Hall Boston College 
Policies 

6 p.m.-8 p.m. Hesburgh Center Snite Museum of Art 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Joyce Center 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre Find ways to get 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Discussion related to 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 
Dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, involved in the South Sponsored by the Kroc Film about the street work, inequality and The Irish take on the including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
Bend community. and Nanovic Institutes. photographer. social justice. Eagles. 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as ND Women’s Tennis Men’s Basketball vs. “A Midsummer Camille A. Brown & Film: “Room” (2015) possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
vs. Western Michigan Virginia Tech Night’s Dream” Dancers DeBartolo Performance 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, Eck Tennis Pavillion Joyce Center Washington Hall DeBartolo Performance Arts Center 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9:55 p.m. Arts Center 6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. necessarily those of the observer. 
The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Performed by Actors 7 p.m.-8 p.m. Oscar nominee for  
viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Broncos. Hokies. From the London Stage. Storytelling and dance. “Best Picture” 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

service events commemorate mlk 
post office information 

the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. our campus an opportunity to think deliver a keynote speech about king’s 
the observer is published at: By ALEX WINEGAR 
024 south Dining Hall more about how we can use our time value of service and what service looks 
associate saint mary’s editor 
notre Dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre Dame and additional mailing offices and talents to continue to bring positive like in today’s society. 
postmaster 

send address corrections to: saint mary’s will celebrate the life of change to the world around us and how “through his speech, we want people 
the observer 

p.o. box 779 martin luther king Jr. this week with we can learn more about the beauty and to take away the importance of service 
024 south Dining hall 

notre Dame, in 46556-077 daily events on campus hosted by the strength in our community,” payne said. in bettering the community around us,” 
the observer is a member of the associated press. 

all reproduction rights are reserved. office of civil and social engagement a blood drive will take place in the lamar said. “like mlk said himself, (ocse). events will incorporate service, student center from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. ‘life’s most persistent and the urgent the theme of this year’s mlk week at the wednesday. the ocse hosts four blood question is: what are you doing for oth­college. drives each school year, with this one ers?’ we will also be having the voice of 

the week kicked off on monday with scheduled to fall during the week of mlk Faith gospel choir from notre Dame at-two on-campus community service proj-events, payne said. tend and sing.” 
News Sports 

katie Galioto kit loughran ects in the student center, samira payne, “mlk day is often considered a day of on Friday, a Justice Friday presenta­selena ponio ben padanilam 
assistant director of the ocse, said in an service to our community,” payne said. tion will focus on progress since the civil 
Jenna wilson maureen schweninger 
email. During this time, they discussed “by being a volunteer blood donor, saint rights movement. 
Graphics Scene 

issues such as poverty, homelessness, mary’s students, faculty and staff have a “it is important to celebrate mlk Day 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
youth and education. tangible opportunity to give back to the because of everything Dr. king stood 
Photo Viewpoint 

“martin luther king Jr. Day is an op-south bend community and save lives.” for,” lamar said. “He believed in equality 
caitlyn Jordan austin taliaferro 
portunity to reflect on the legacy or Dr. a mass for peace and justice hosted by and fairness. with everything that has king,” payne said. “He was passionate campus ministry will take place in the been happening, not only in this country about justice and equality for all and en-Holy spirit chapel in le mans Hall on but across the world, it is important to 
Corrections 

couraged our nation to unify, despite our wednesday night at 9 p.m. remember that we are all human beings. 
the observer regards itself as differences. there is still much progress courtney lamar, president of the “on mlk Day, i hope that all people a professional publication and 
to be made around equality and justice student Diversity board (sDb), said can remember king’s words and what he strives for the highest standards 
in our society.” sDb will be hosting a martin luther represented and try to make the world a 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
on tuesday, saint mary’s students king dinner thursday night. the din-better place. one way they can do that is 
however, recognize that we will make 
have the opportunity to serve lunch at ner will afford attendees the opportunity through service.” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
the center for the Homeless in south to reflect on king’s example of service 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so bend. and activism. mel tardy, a deacon at st. Contact Alex Winegar at  
we can correct our error. “i believe this week of events gives augustine’s church in south bend, will wawine01@saintmarys.edu 

nDsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | tHe observer 

March 
continueD From paGe 1 
and inclusion at notre Dame. 
as attendees entered the main building, they were handed candles and di­rected towards the rotunda beneath the golden dome. members of the notre Dame community crowded on the main floor and in overlook areas on higher floors. 
the march was originally scheduled to start outside of Hesburgh library and finish with a prayer service at the Grotto. However, organiz­ers modified the plan due to dangerous wind-chill condi­tions and expected snowfall, according to a university-wide email. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins began the prayer service by encour­aging students to strive for courage and determination to follow king’s example. 
“it would have been nice to have a march outside, but there’s something special about being here, under the golden dome, the heart of campus, as we pray and as we start this celebration of Dr. king’s legacy,” he said. 
eric love, director of staff diversity and inclusion, de­livered a speech examining the importance of king’s legacy, both from a global perspective and in relation to notre Dame. 
“arguably, the most pro­found reason we are here at midnight is because of king’s achievement of mak­ing the promise of the u.s. constitution more true,” he said. “we claimed all men are created equal, but we didn’t practice that promise of our own constitution. 
“we talked the talk, but we did not walk the walk.” 
love said king’s legacy has a special meaning at notre Dame because university president emeritus Fr. ted Hesburgh was an avid sup­porter of the civil rights movement. 
“king wanted to be a pas­tor in a southern baptist church and simply raise his family. Fr. Hesburgh said if he had to do it all over again, he would still choose to be a priest,” love said. “but nei­ther one could stand idly by and let the injustices of the time go unchallenged.” 
love encouraged members of the notre Dame commu­nity to make others feel wel­comed and comfortable on campus. 
“it doesn’t matter where you are from, your religion, your ethnicity, sexual ori­entation or family income,” he said. “whoever you are, if you are here, you are part of our family, and you should be expected to be treated with dignity and respect.” 


love concluded his speech by challenging students, staff and faculty at notre Dame to make a difference in the world. 
“i have no doubt that we have the brilliance and te­nacity of Dr. king and the political savvy and compas­sion of Fr. Hesburgh among us this morning — among us in you,” he said. “my ques­tion for you is, what will you do to walk the walk?” 
Following the prayer ser­vice, attendees were in­vited to place their candles by the statue of the sacred Heart of Jesus. Hundreds of paper luminaries lined the walkways from the main building. 
sophomore katie Hearn said she felt a strong sense of community and solidarity while standing and praying with her fellow notre Dame students. 
“everyone had their own reasons and motivations for going,” she said. “but these different reasons brought us all together and created an atmosphere of prayer and to­getherness that, to me, was something special.” 
Junior Joe etling said the only events he considers similar to the midnight prayer service during his time at notre Dame were Fr. Hesburgh’s funeral and Holy week. 
“i think it’s important for us and for anyone to cel­ebrate martin luther king Day because of what he stood for and what he did for this country,” he said. 
students, staff, faculty and other community members were invited to eat breakfast in south Dining Hall after the event. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
Laws 
continueD From paGe 1 
decisions in which even the highest court has gotten it wrong. 
“think, for example, of the Dred scott decision, or the 1944 case in which the supreme court upheld the internment of Japanese citi­zens without a trial. in king’s own day, this is a very poi­gnant question,” he said. 
supplementally, legge contended that king ar­gued for the natural moral law, without the bounds of a higher lawgiver. 
“He does not appeal to a higher law-giver like God, which is a really important point. it’s not because God gave us ten commandments, it’s because there’s a sort of moral ordering to this world,” he said. “both law and justice are concerned with the basic good of the human person.” 
legge said the more im­portant argument was about not violating basic moral law. 
“moral theology is about what’s good for the human person, and that means that our laws should be framed with what the human per­son is. no positive law ever has the right to make those things illegal,” legge said. “there is no law that can be abstracted from moral understanding.” 
Fundamentally, legge said, we need to seek what is good for the entirety of society. 
“there are some things about the kinds of beings we are that lead us to flour­ish, and some things that re­ally hurt who we are, so we need to find what is good to help us to flourish,” he said. “there are also some things that are fundamental to who we are, and they belong to a higher level.” 
legge also spoke on the justification of civil dis­obedience, particularly in king’s case. 
“when you have this kind of systematic injustice ... civil disobedience is a way to address this issue, and if you do this, then you’re ap­pealing to this sort of higher justice,” he said. “and when is that justified, i mean, we could go on and disagree, but i think that we can agree that this was grave injustice and civil disobedience was in fact justified.” 
legge emphasized the im­portance of celebrating this holiday. 
“it’s right for us to cele­brate mlk on this day, and we are right to be proud of his legacy. … it’s a shin­ing episode in our history,” legge said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
Gambling 
continueD From paGe 1 
sense that our public of­ficials ought to be hon­est with us about policies they’re supporting,” pierce said. “that sounds like the revenue is doing things that people believed it wasn’t supposed to do. … they were engaging in a certain degree of implicit decep­tion of the public in terms of how they handled this rev­enuethat belongs to all of us because it’s paid into the government.” 
pierce said he enjoys the research process and the results it can yield. 
“i love doing research,” he said. “i think it’s one of those fundamentally hu­man things that you want to know why things are the way they are. … i think that you can indirectly have an impact on policy; you can help policy be a little bit better. 
“i want to inform public debate. it’s better to know why things are working the way they are if you want to evaluate them and say they’re good ideas or bad ideas. that research can also help you understand if they are good ideas, how might we change that exist­ing policy.” 
Discussions about educa­tional lotteries in the media noticeably increased after pierce has been inter-his research was published, viewed by a number of news-pierce said. papers and networks about 

“it changed the way states his expertise, including nbc handled new lotteries,” he and cnn. He said he uses said. “instead of saying these interviews as an op-the lottery funds are going portunity to teach people towards education, they about gambling politics and established a brand new spread the name of saint 
“It’s the opportunity to get Saint Mary’s name out so that maybe that a woman in high school in Peoria hears the name Saint Mary’s College and maybe thinks about coming here. For those students who have graduated from here, it’s just a valuable thing to raise the visibility of Saint Mary’s College so more people out there hear about us and know about us.” 
Patrick Pierce professor political science 
fund.” 
pierce said a notable case of this happened in Georgia. He said the state govern­ment now uses lottery rev­enue for a fund called Hope scholarships, so that people now know exactly where the revenue is going. 
“the whole process had a lot more integrity,” pierce said. “there’s no implicit de­ception going on. if you’re buying a lottery ticket, you know it’s going into Hope scholarships, and you know it’s being used for that pur­pose, and it’s not going to substitute for anything else.” 
mary’s. 
“i really think of it as ser­vice to the college,” pierce said. “it’s the opportunity to get saint mary’s name out so that maybe that a woman in high school in peoria hears the name of saint mary’s college and maybe thinks about coming here. For those students who have graduated from here, it’s just a valuable thing to raise the visibility of saint mary’s college so more people out there hear about us and know about us.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



Hashtag 
continueD From paGe 1 
post made by their co-found­er, Garza, which was then used as a hashtag that went viral. 
“we started using social media to connect this com­munity and to amplify the message that our lives mat­ter, despite a society and a system that continues to de­value and continues to dis­pose of us in a way that is egregious. it’s deplorable, and we know it’s happen­ing,” tometi said. “we used this platform to connect with more and more of our broth­ers and sisters from across the country, moving from discussions around police brutality and addressing state violence more broadly. we knew police brutality was just one facet of the violence our community is facing.” 
the pair shared their sto­ries and how it shaped their involvement in the move­ment: tometi is the daughter of undocumented nigerian immigrants and cullors grew up “very poor” in los angeles, which she said has a particularly brutal police department. 
“by the time i was about 13 years old, almost every young boy in my neighborhood had been arrested, had been to juvenile hall and a young boy named matthew was given a 25-year sentence at 14 years old,” cullors said. “and i was disturbed, to say the least, as a child. even as i child i knew that was not right, that was not correct.” 
both talked about their experiences as activists, not only with black lives matter, but previously as well: tometi worked with immigration is­sues and cullors with the pe­nal systems. 
“we’re taking into account that many of us, in this type of work, oftentimes feel that justice won’t come, or we’re cynical about the system,” tometi said. “we know it wasn’t really made for us or that it was made to do exactly what it’s doing right now, and we carry that.” 
tometi answered students’ questions about how to be­come effective activists. 
“my basic advice is to do the work,” she said. 

“oftentimes, it can be very  conscience  and  who  care.  
theoretical, and we find a bit  you’re not by yourself in this,  
of safety in theorizing about  and i think that’s oftentimes  
the challenges and theoriz­ the myth we’re sold and we buy  
ing solutions. but if you’re  into, that you’re the only one  
going to be a scholar-activist,  who cares about these issues.”  
you have to engage. you have  the lecture was part of walk  
to take a step of faith and join  the  walk  week, in celebra­ 

“We started using social media to connect this community and to amplify the message that our lives matter, despite a society and a system that continues to devalue and continues to dispose of us in a way that is egregious. It’s deplorable and we know it’s happening.” 
Opal Tometi 
co-founder 
Black Lives Matter Movement 

the movement. tion of Dr. martin luther king 
“this is the call. we need Jr., who cullors said was an everybody on deck for this example of activism that en-time in our history, and it re-gaged, citing king’s 32 arrests quires both theory and prac-as evidence. tice. Do it in a community. you “we have a long history in are not by yourself. you’re in the black community of dis-a room full of folks who have ruption, a long legacy,” cullors said. “what we’re doing here is we’re adding to that legacy and we should be proud of it and embrace it. the only way we’ve seen systemic change happen in this country is disruption. 
“it’s not through sitting with elected officials behind back doors — that’s not been the way that we’ve seen an evolu­tion in the culture. we would still be segregated if that were the case. Jim crow segregation 
— because we’re still segregat­ed — would still exist.” 
within the black lives matter movement, specifically, cullors and tometi stressed the importance of “collective care” and “healing justice” to allow activists to continue to work “long distance.” 
“Healing justice is key in our work, in the black lives matter network and move­ment,” cullors said. “in this generation, we’re really try­ing to understand what care looks like. How are we in this movement and caring for ourselves and caring for each other, and how do we do this as long time runners? 
“what we’ve witnessed is trauma exists everywhere, whether through being in pwis [predominantly white institutions], whether that’s through having to see the consistent killings and bru­talization of our people or whether that’s just living your life as a black person.” 
cullors said she didn’t want to “pigeonhole” what might be in store for black lives matter in the future, but tometi said she feels posi­tively about the success black lives matter has had in creat­ing a new future. 
“that’s what black lives is saying – we’re going to cre­ate a world in which our lives matter, whether you like it or not,” tometi said. “that world is coming. it has to come.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 




tHe observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | nDsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

after seeing “it Follows,” the best horror movie of 2015 (and one of the best movies of 2015 period), i impetuously tweeted that we are living in a “post-horror” era. like much of what i’ve written in these pages, the state­ment was steeped in snobbery; only meta-horror films like “the cabin in the woods” and “it Follows” that simultaneously mock and embrace their genre tropes could pos­sibly appeal to an intellectual like myself. 
but what does my tweet mean, really? is the horror genre truly broken? Doubtful. rather, if we assume my opinions are not nearly as unique as i’d like to think they are, we inhabit an age in which many of us are afraid to admit that something as silly as a movie could scare us; we’re insecure. For me, the prospect of being scared by a movie that plays with the idea of being a “horror movie” instead of a straight-faced horror movie that merely exists as a collection of tropes without commentary quells that insecurity. 
in rewarding horror literacy — by allow­ing viewers to catch references to other hor­ror movies, as well as to understand and to appreciate the subversion of genre clichés 
— “it Follows” lets viewers like me in on the joke. it’s more than camp; maybe it’s satire, maybe it’s postmodernism. regardless of 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

the last true bastion of network comedy block scheduling — which the nbc tv net­work ran as its “comedy night Done right” in different iterations on thursday nights from 2009 to 2013 — may finally have a worthy successor. However, with nbc’s abandonment of its sitcom programming, its new successor mirrors neither network nor night of the week. what Fox network’s 2016-restructured tuesday night com­edy block of “new Girl,” “Grandfathered,” “brooklyn nine-nine” and “the Grinder” does closely resemble is nbc’s similarly-minded sitcoms from its final “comedy night Done right” iteration. 
the four Fox sitcoms dwell in famil­iar comedic spaces to the nbc shows — “community,” “parks and recreation,” “the office,” “30 rock” and the occa­sional, incidental filler — that came before them. “new Girl” leads into the night’s block schedule much like “community” did throughout its run airing on nbc. as “community” was, “new Girl” is a con­fident, well-shot ensemble sitcom old enough to understand exactly what it is. late into their lifespans, both became so knowledgeable of their characters and their what we call it, that invitation to enter an “i know that you know”-style dialogue with a movie does more to provide comfort than simply pad any would-be intellectual’s ego; it promises that the film and viewer are on equal footing, that the film respects the viewer. it’s a childish desire for sure, to want a movie to respect me, and yet, it’s one that is antithetical to a very childlike way of watching movies — namely, to completely surrender to the movie. can you think of a more wonderfully innocent experience? i can’t. yet it’s one i often resist, which leads me to believe the problem isn’t with any genre like horror; the problem is with us. 
that’s pretty much how i feel about “star wars: the Force awakens,” or rather, how i feel about the minimal yet pronounced critical backlash to this latest mega-movie. writing for “antenna,” the university of wisconsin’s communications arts blog, media scholar Jonathan Gray does a tre­mendous job undermining the so-called logic of any attacks that claim “the Force awakens” is just a nostalgia trip, a tired rehash or a glorified piece of fan fiction; Gray illustrates how those critiques apply to practically any movie. whereas Gray ap­peals to logic, i’d like to appeal to emotion, to those who make like chewie and think with their stomachs, by posing the same simple question Gray does: so what? 
so what if “the Force awakens” uses 
weird eccentricities that they eschewed the draws of their main characters based on the strength and chemistry of their whole casts. as a result, the writers and actors are able to fire on all cylinders even in episodes with lesser stories to tell. the plucky, group hangout vibe is both what is at first so invit­ing to them and what has kept audiences around past either’s arguable heyday. 
next on Fox’s tuesday night scheduling, “Grandfathered” has more in common with the forgotten shows of the 2009-2013 run of nbc’s “comedy night Done right.” similar to shows like “whitey,” “outsourced” and “up all night,” “Grandfathered” is the ex­pected outlier in quality. the show hits all the notes of its only slightly fresh concept: a life-long bachelor, not so much played as inhabited by John stamos, navigates the particularly prickly revelation that he has a 25-year-old son. the twist — that his son also has a daughter, making him a grandfather — does nothing to liven up the expected humor. it’s the perfect mix of inof­fensively average and yet mildly absorbing content that allows the network to retain viewers between the shows they actually want to watch. 
shows, for instance, like the follow-up to “Grandfathered,” the critically acclaimed “brooklyn nine-nine.” co-created by our 38-year history with the franchise and its characters to generate narrative and emotional weight? so what if we only cry when [spoiler redacted] dies because we’ve grown to love [spoiler redacted] over four films and as many decades? are we afraid to feel? yes and no. i suspect the root of the problem is that childish desire for respect. critics of “the Force awakens” seem in­sulted that it tries to use some of the same old tricks they’ve been familiar with since “a new Hope” came out in 1977. “How dare you make me sympathize with an orphan from a distant desert planet or make me mourn the loss of an older teacher?” these critics have mastered that story; like a child with an old toy, they’re ready for some­thing new, no matter how great the toy. they’re not entirely devoid of emotion; they’re quick to point out their disdain for “the Force awakens” and its familiar ways. they’re like middle schoolers insisting that chuck e. cheese’s isn’t a cool place for a birthday party even though it was the year before. they’re like high schoolers avoiding their parents in public. “i’m not a kid any­more!” they shout. it’s not that these critics have lost their innocence, it’s that they’ve wholeheartedly attempted to stifle it. How could they possibly surrender themselves to an emotional experience similar to the one they had when they were 8 years old and the words “a long time ago in a galaxy 
network sitcom veteran michael schur, “brooklyn nine-nine” features similar office-setting antics as schur’s previ­ous shows, “the office” and “parks and recreation.” Just like its nbc precursors, the show has built up a huge repertoire of equally great but completely varied un­expected relationships between all of its curiously defined main characters. the only differences are that schur traded the business office and government building for a police precinct and that “brooklyn nine-nine” is even more unconsciously di­verse than its predecessors. the latter fact is especially praiseworthy for how natural and inconsequential — yet nonetheless im­portant to viewers — the show handles its diversity. 
Fox’s tuesday night comedy block closes like nbc’s “comedy night Done right” did, and as another nbc staple, “saturday night live,” always does: with its most ex­perimental offering. like nbc’s “30 rock,” which usually resided in the last half-hour slot, Fox’s “the Grinder” plays with the con­ventions of being a television show about a television show. as tracy morgan did on “30 rock,” rob lowe plays a fictional, comedi­cally exaggerated version of himself as the star of a recently-concluded hit drama, also called “the Grinder,” trying to acclimate to far, far away … ” first entered their lexicon? that would be much too humbling. 

so why does “the Force awakens” mat­ter? practically speaking, in an era of de­clining box-office revenues, “the Force awakens” proves people will still attend the movies in droves, that the movies are still relevant. a cynic might lament that it took the biggest commercial franchise in history to do so. that cynic wouldn’t be wrong, per se, but they would be missing the point. that tens of millions of people have seen “the Force awakens” and the overwhelming majority enjoyed it is a dec­laration of willingness to hold onto that childlike innocence, to hold onto that hope that a movie with a title as silly as “star wars: the Force awakens” might provide true wonderment. a theater showing “the Force awakens” is a place where parents can bond with their children, a place where cynics can become apologists and a place where this snob cheered, laughed, cried and ultimately appreciated a movie that had no higher artistic aim than to make the audience happy. put another way, in the same year “mad max: Fury road” asked where we can find our better selves, “the Force awakens” provided an answer: the cinema. 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 
a more normal lifestyle. showing scenes of the fake show within the real show, “the Grinder” often pokes fun at the formulaic structure of sitcoms, as well as the indus­try itself, always extremely self-aware that itself is a television show. the similarities shouldn’t come as a surprise, since the show’s writing team includes Dominic Dierkes, a member of the internet sketch comedy group Derrick comedy — just as “30 rock” employed his teammate Donald Glover — and writing partners Hayes Davenport and sean clements. the duo — who have previously written for “eastbound & Down” and “workaholics,” respec­tively — have also co-hosted the podcast “Hollywood Handbook” as exaggeratedly inept Hollywood insiders, dealing over-the­top musings similar to those of rob lowe’s mitchard Grinder/Dean sanderson. 
it may be an unlikely continuance, but Fox has, after two seasons of rather disjoint­ed television scheduling from networks across the board — barring, perhaps, abc 
— provided a comedy block to match the great, late two-hour blitz of “community,” “parks and recreation,” “the office” and “30 rock.” 
Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


tHe observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | nDsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Connection is essential 
Stephanie Snyder 
news writer 

i just spent what i consider to be pos­sibly the best three months of my life in rome. i was so blessed to travel with 17 other fantastic ladies through saint mary’s and do what used to be, for me, the unthinkable — studying abroad. 
now i could ramble on and on about how incredible studying abroad was and try to advertise that you should do the same and blah blah blah, but that isn’t what i want to tell you about. Don’t get me wrong, i definitely do recommend look­ing into it. However, i would instead like to talk about the effect of studying abroad and traveling has had on my life in hopes of making you aware of the reality of our world today. 
while abroad, my friends and i trav­elled throughout europe to places such as spain, France, Germany, ireland and england, in that order. traveling to all of these different places really put the world into perspective for me, especially after traveling to paris. 
yes, 13 girls in the saint mary’s program, including myself, were in paris on nov. 13 during the time of the terrorist attacks. 
i never used to be the type of person who followed world news closely. i would hear about major events and maybe watch the news for more info, but other than that, i was utterly disconnected. Having experienced the effect the attacks had on not only paris, but all of europe, i have recently changed my ways. 
after walking down barren streets, hear­ing dozens upon dozens of sirens, watch­ing speeding emergency vehicles going by, seeing the distress in peoples’ eyes, ex­periencing the fear and worry and asking ourselves, “when it was going to be over?”, i saw the world in a new light. 
paris, was without any doubt in my mind, one of the most terrifying days of my life. no, we were not too close to any of the attack sites, but the attack didn’t just affect the sites, it affected the entire city, country, surrounding countries and the world. 
yes, the terror had a great effect on me, but the aftermath was even more power­ful. we got to witness the residents of a city unite to stand up against the unjust attack and show they were not going to live in fear. i left the city in complete awe. 
the reason i never followed world news before was not because i thought it was uninteresting, it was because all i ever saw were horrible things. i now realize that staying connected is essential. 
sure, there are people who want to cause havoc and fear, but we, as a human race, must stand by and support one another against such injustice, even if they are thousands of miles away. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Neil Joseph 

viewpoint columnist 
about a year ago, i was in an incredibly differ­ent place than where i am right now — quite liter­ally (i’m in london now, i was in south bend then). but also in incredibly more ways. in January 2015, my last few years at notre Dame were going to be defined by one day, as i decided to run for student body president. it was an incredibly difficult deci­sion for me and my running mate because we both knew what it meant. our college lives were liter­ally at a standstill for the first month of 2015; we couldn’t plan anything for the entire next year until the election was over. it was going to be a tiring few weeks of campaigning, and most people all around campus were going to see our faces and like or hate us. Quite simply, we both also knew that we could fail. and we did. 
i can’t say failing was easy. because it wasn’t. losing the election last year was probably one of the most difficult things i have ever experienced. it may sound petty, and it may because i have a large ego (i do, ask any of my friends). but pouring your heart into something for weeks and then losing in such a public way isn’t easy. and it was harder for me than most people around me even realized. i had dreamed, i had wanted it, but i failed. to pile onto that, i had no clue what my future held. what was i going to do? i couldn’t have ever thought of losing, and now i didn’t know what my last two years at notre Dame were going to be. i regretted even run­ning, because i was so far behind in planning for my summer, for my next few years. but most of all, i regretted it because i hated, more than anything, failing. 
as notre Dame students, we all undeniably have this same aversion to failure. we were all over­achieving and successful students in high school, and we have all continued that at notre Dame. none of us fail often, and most of us avoid it at all costs. no one wants to fail. and sometimes, that means avoiding things that might challenge us or put us at risk of failure. and i wanted to do that, but i didn’t. i couldn’t bring myself to avoid something i was so passionate about because it may not have worked out. but when i lost, i instantly regretted doing that. i regretted it for days, months even. it would have been so much easier if i hadn’t run, hadn’t lost, hadn’t failed. 
people kept telling me that things would work out in the long run. Quite simply, however, i just didn’t care. i didn’t care if things would work out in the long run, because i wanted them to work out in the past. but i knew they were right. it may sound cheesy (and predictable), but losing has opened up so many doors for me. i’ve barely been in london a week, but i have met so many incredible people and seen so many incredible things. i’ve done things in the last year that i wouldn’t have done before be­cause i would’ve been scared of failing. the experi­ences that we have define our future ones, and our failures define our future successes. 
at the end of the day, life is short. college is even shorter, and the time in our lives to fail miser­ably and easily move on is just as short. but doing things that may not work out isn’t stupid or rash. it’s what we’re supposed to do. yeah, failing may be difficult for a very long time. but it leads to better and greater things. the biggest regrets aren’t the failures, they’re the things we haven’t done. if my biggest regret in life is doing something but fail­ing, then i think that i’ve done all that i should have done. it’s still tough for me, as it is for most people. we all want to be comfortable, to be successful and to not fail. but college isn’t for being comfortable or succeeding at everything. it’s for pursuing your passions, discovering what you’re good at and doing new things. Do those things, and don’t be afraid of failing at them. who knows ... you might end up liv­ing in london. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He welcomes all thoughts and suggestions and can be reached at njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
all black lives matter 
the slogan “black lives matter” should be agree­able to all and affirmed by everyone. still, i have to question the members of that movement in that the only black lives that matter seemed to be those killed by police. at least at first, that was all the black lives that mattered. they didn’t protest or seem to worry about black-on-black killings, whereby far more blacks were killed than at the hands of the police. i was glad to see the pro­tests that eventually developed in chicago over blacks killed there and that those black lives also mattered. 
still, if black lives really matter, the movement should eventually have protests at the abortion clinics in the united states, where far more black lives are killed than those taken by the police and black-on-black killings combined. black lives mat­ter all across the board. 
Br. Bill Mewes 
columba Hall class of 1960 



tHe observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | nDsmcobserver.com 
Stephen Raab 
let’s talk smart 

January at notre Dame means many things — a time to share stories of the christmas break, a time to plan for the new semester and a time to break new year’s resolutions. but one event that also defines a notre Dame January is the preparation of many Domers for the march for life — an event located in washington, D.c. that seeks to overturn roe. v. wade, the supreme court decision which declared that the constitution recognizes a right to abortion. 
the raw numbers on abortion are hard to wrap your mind around. around 700,000 women re­ceived abortions in 2012, according to the center for Disease control and prevention (cDc). twenty-one percent of pregnancies now end in abortion. regardless of opinions on the morality of this pro­cedure’s legality and the vital status of the entities in question (two factors which this article will not address, if only to keep the inevitable shouting as quiet as possible), both sides of the debate certainly ought to agree that the world would be a better place if these figures were lower. 
traditional efforts to lower these numbers have generally focused on either convincing couples to remain abstinent or to choose to carry their preg­nancy to term, an approach which until recently included criminal penalties for noncompliance. However, it’s clear this isn’t working, or at least not fast enough. Humans will continue to have sex without the intention of pregnancy and will seek abortions when pregnancy occurs. one option to prevent these abortions, then, is to reduce the num­ber of unintended pregnancies through the promo­tion of contraceptive birth control. 
Taking control 
i will stop here to make an important distinction between contraception and what i will henceforth call “contraimplantation.” “contraimplantation” methods are those methods which act upon a fertil­ized egg to prevent it from becoming implanted in the uterus. For example, some intra-uterine devices may have this effect, though their chief method of operation is to inhibit fertilization. because catholic doctrine states that life begins at concep­tion, “contraimplantation” methods would be con­sidered by the catholic church as abortifacient. therefore, this proposal deals exclusively with true contraception, which exclusively prevents the fertil­ization of an egg. 
certainly, this plan will raise eyebrows among those used to “abstinence-only” sexual education in the church. such contraceptives, they will argue, are used to separate the unitive dimension of inter­course from the procreative dimension. i will not argue this. i will, however, note that the catholic church already supports such a policy — natural Family planning. a couple who intentionally has intercourse at a time when pregnancy cannot occur must also be said to have deliberately severed the connection between unity and procreation. are we to believe the couple must keep themselves in peak condition while trying for a baby (diet, fitness, etc.), lest they sin? 
also, the catholic church need not abandon its principle that fornication is a sin. its policy on such matters might be amended from “Do not engage in intercourse” to “Do not engage in intercourse out­side of marriage. if, however, you are going to en­gage in intercourse outside of marriage, then please do so using contraception, lest you be tempted to commit the mortal sin of murder on top of your first sin of fornication.” i can only hope the average hu­man being is intelligent enough to hold two pieces of information in his or her head simultaneously. this plan may be compared to the needle-exchange programs in many cities, which allow drug dealers to exchange their used needles for clean ones in or­der to prevent the spread of diseases such as hepati­tis or aiDs. certainly, the city leaders who support these programs are not pro-drug use any more than catholic leaders are pro-fornication. these city leaders merely recognize a perverse consequence — drug abuse — they wish to avert, much as catholic leaders wish to avert abortion. (the catholic church doesn’t support the needle-exchange program, ei­ther, but that’s another story.) 
and there will also be those catholics who claim that cutting off a zygote’s journey before it has even begun is worse still than aborting it further down the line. after all, they will say, at least this unborn human got to live, if only ever so briefly. i can un­derstand such ideas, but i do not agree with them. to permit such behavior would be tantamount to toying with a living being. consider if all of these pregnancies had instead expired 10 months later. would we not look at this high mortality rate and conclude that the high rate of births was not worth it? 
no matter where you stand, the number of abor­tions that occur each year is a public health prob­lem. there are many steps that can be taken to solve it. but since we keep trying the same ones every year without success, we should at least consider declaring a new course of action and once more tak­ing control of the abortion issue. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
uncovering gender bias in student evaluations 
Erin Thomassen 
the examined life 

some notre Dame students treat ciFs seriously, dedicating precious time during finals week to offer feedback that is as accurate and objective as possible. unfortunately, many students rush through them, anxious to study for finals but also wanting to get their grades early. both groups of students would probably be surprised, though, to hear their evaluations are extremely gender biased. that is exactly what philip b. stark, kellie ottoboni and anne boring claim in their paper published two weeks ago: “student evaluations of teaching (mostly) Do not measure teaching effectiveness.” 
in their paper, stark and ottoboni of uc berkley and borring of the paris institute of political studies report on their analysis of 23,001 evalu­ations of 379 instructors by 4,423 students. their major claim is that “[student evaluations of teaching] are biased against female instructors by an amount that is large and statistically sig­nificant.” they report that students were biased even on purportedly objective questions, such as how long a teacher took to grade assignments. the bias was large enough to cause more effective instructors to receive a lower set rating than less effective instructors. 
some students at notre Dame may doubt their ciFs are ever read. professor of French and Francophone studies Julia Douthwaite, however, said “the results of student ciFs are routinely used to evaluate faculty for renewal and tenure. people who receive less than stellar ciFs are routinely de­nied renewal and tenure.” that is, they are fired. 
this means that students’ gender bias, even if it is unintended, has tragic consequences for the university as whole. more deserving faculty mem­bers who have dedicated decades of their lives to teaching, advising and research do not get the recognition, promotion and renewal they deserve. Future students miss out on taking classes from the best teachers. at a university such as notre Dame, which costs upwards of $60,000 per year, students should want to ensure they are learning from the most effective teachers possible. 
students’ gender bias can actually deprive pro­fessors of their civil rights. title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 prohibits employment discrimi­nation based on race, color, religion, sex or na­tional origin, while the equal pay act of 1963 (epa) protects men and women who perform substan­tially equal work in the same establishment from sex-based wage discrimination. if student gender bias causes professors to be passed over for promo­tion or paid less because of their gender, they pro­vide notre Dame deans with biased information, which may cause them to unknowingly transgress these statutes. 
what can we do to combat this bias? unfortunately, stark wrote that student “evalu­ations are biased against female instructors in particular in so many ways that adjusting them for that bias is impossible.” students, however, can pay more attention to this bias while in class and filling out ciFs, making sure that they are report­ing as objectively and truthfully as possible. Deans can recognize this unfortunate and possibly un­intended bias while reviewing ciFs. the jobs and civil rights of deserving notre Dame faculty and the education of future notre Dame students are in their hands. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will sHortZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & JoHn roDDy 
SUDOKU | tHe mepHam Group 

FLING  BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | euGenia last 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jason Segel, 36; Jesse L. Martin, 47; Mark Messier, 55; Kevin Costner, 61. 
Happy Birthday: Don’t look back -- it’s full speed ahead. your race to the top can only be matched by your desire and willingness to do whatever it takes to get there. whether your goal is personal, financial, medical or emotional, you can achieve whatever you set out to do as long as you are persistent and use your intuition to guide you. your numbers are 5, 13, 22, 25, 31, 37, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): take time to listen to the opinions of friends or relatives. Do your best to think of everyone’s needs and ensure that you keep your relationships with others healthy. a professional opportunity will enhance your reputation. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): take time to listen to the opinions of friends or relatives. Do your best to think of everyone’s needs and ensure that you keep your relationships with others healthy. a professional opportunity will enhance your reputation. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a lack of understanding or trust will develop between you and your lover, a good friend or a family member. be ready to offer an explanation and ask direct questions in order to clear the air. re-evaluate your lifestyle choices. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): charity begins at home, so don’t make an impulsive donation just to impress someone. if you have to overspend to get someone’s attention, it’s probably not worth your while. make your own life better, not someone else’s. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): be careful how you present what you have to offer. if you exaggerate, you will end up looking bad. Focus more on truth and bringing about positive changes, and you will make a good impression. romance is encouraged. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): problems at home will develop if you don’t take care of your responsibilities. be mindful of others and you will be able to balance your life between business and pleasure. plan a mini trip that will highlight both knowledge and physical activity. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Hobbies that take a lot of creative energy will help ease your stress while you figure out what to do about a concern you are harboring. talking to someone who can offer an interesting perspective on the events in your life will help. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make plans to visit unfamiliar places, and look for any opportunity to share ideas and collaborate with people you find motivating. make changes at home that will give you greater freedom to do the things you enjoy. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): keep your life simple and spend your time gathering information and learning all you can about a vocation or hobby you want to pursue. make a promise to yourself to be more health conscious. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don’t worry about the things you have no control over. concentrate on what you can do and make the changes that will improve your life. Home improvements and working toward better relationships with loved ones should take top priority. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you can motivate others and capture their attention if you express your ideas and plans enthusiastically, but don’t take on more than what you can handle. try not to lose the support you’ve worked so hard to gain. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make a difference by sharing your concerns and solutions. Don’t let your health suffer or a personal relationship cause you grief. if someone is a poor influence on you, be prepared to move forward alone. 


Birthday Baby: you are determined, pragmatic and always prepared. you are cautious and traditional. 
JUMBLE | DaviD Hoyt anD JeFF knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: the observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre Dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Time to rethink NFL overtime 
Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
i know you’ve seen the play, probably many times by now, but it’s worth reminding you again. 
with five seconds left on the clock and the Green bay packers trailing by a touch­down, aaron rodgers took a snap from the arizona cardinals’ 41-yard line. Forced to evade the pass rush, he made it back to his own 45 before throwing as he fell under the pressure of markus Golden. His throw made it all the way to the end zone, where it was met by Jeff Janis of the packers and two cardinals defenders. Janis came down with it. 
the ball flew 60 yards in the air from rodgers’s hand. it never returned. aaron rodgers didn’t touch a foot­ball again for the remainder of the game. He won’t touch one again in a meaning­ful contest for almost eight months. when rodgers re­turns to the field for week 1 of the 2016 season, his last moment on the field will be arguably the greatest mo­ment in playoff history, but it means nothing. 
a coin flip (and a coin non-flip) ensured it was the cardinals who got the ball first in overtime. three plays later, larry Fitzgerald ended the game with a cardinals touchdown. 
in a sport that depends so much on possession, how can a game end without one team getting the ball? if you want to say defense is part of the game and the packers should have stopped Fitzgerald, then why did the cardinals defense — who apparently can’t defend a play named for its low probability of suc­cess — not have to prove itself again? any argument that the packers had plenty of chances to win the game in regulation can be discarded because the cardinals had the exact same chances, plus an extra one. 
clearly, things need to change. but this is the nFl, so of course it comes down to tv money. unpredictable game lengths create confus­ing tv schedules and that loses broadcasters money. sensible overtime periods just take too long (and who really wants to watch more of a great game anyway?). so how can we end an overtime period quickly? 
enter multiball. one ball on the field of play at a time is boring. overtime needs to be exciting. all 44 starters take the field. both offenses start at their own 20 with the ball, facing their opponents’ defense. each team has to try to advance the ball down the field and score a touch­down before their opponents do. special teams can play a part too, kickers and punt­ers stand at the sidelines at­tempting to kick the ball into opposing players to distract them or slow them down, somewhat similar to the role of beaters in Quidditch. For every minute that goes by without a score, each offense gets a second ball to score with. 
or we could just end the game there and then. let neither offense or defense back onto the field, and let it be a tie. maybe it’s the soc­cer fan in me, but i have a bit of a soft spot for ties. i know what you’re thinking, this doesn’t solve playoff games like saturday’s one, so in the playoffs both teams would advance. a 53-man roster is selected at random from the two tied teams, and they must compete in the next round. the new team becomes a permanent nFl franchise, based in los angeles. 
or maybe a hockey shoot­out. not a football version of a hockey shootout, but an actual hockey shootout. the turf retracts from under the stadium, revealing an ice rink, where the two teams play for the right to advance. 
or we could just go with one of the logical options. make the game fair, and you don’t just make both teams happy, you create satisfying tv for the neutral. the obvi­ous thing to do would be to let both teams get the ball. Just like the current over­time, except a touchdown like Fitzgerald’s wouldn’t end the game. after both teams have had the ball, it’s sud­den death. even better would be 10 more minutes of play: every aspect of normal foot­ball remains in play, right down to clock management. or the nFl could bring in something similar to the col­lege rules, maybe tweaked a little to account for the high­er likelihood of an nFl team making a field goal. 
anyone watching an nFl overtime period can tell you that it just doesn’t feel right. How hard is it to just make sure both teams get the ball? 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  doboyle1@d.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

nDsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | tHe observer 
MEN’S SWIMMING | nD 166, nortHwestern 132 

notre Dame rebounds  to beat northwestern 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
notre Dame edged northwestern, 166-132, in a saturday afternoon meet at rolfs aquatic center. 
the irish entered the meet after a recent loss to virginia on Jan. 9. the matchup with the wildcats was the team’s third home meet of the year, and irish head coach mike litzinger said he drew many posi­tives from the event. 
“what i saw out of both teams is that they came out ready to swim well,” litzinger said. “northwestern made a cou­ple of really good charg­es on both sides, and our teams responded. 
“the whole goal is when the pressure comes, how do you respond to it, and both of our squads responded positively today.” 
the women’s team also beat the wildcats by an even closer margin of 156.5­
143.5. For both irish squads, individual races paved the way to their victories. 
“we swam more individu­al events than we normally do, and i put an emphasis especially on our last relay,” litzinger said. “we kind of front-loaded the meet and hoped that momentum would carry us to a victory on the women’s side.” 
individually, senior bogac ayhan notched a top-finish in the 100-yard backstroke with a time of 
48.92 seconds. sophomore robert whitacre took first place in the 200-yard backstroke, finishing at 
1:48.30. Freshman matthew Grauslys and junior kevin bradley finished with times of 1:49.80 and 1:50.21 to se­cure first and second place in the 200-yard butterfly, respectively. Grauslys also claimed first in the 100-yard butterfly (49.57 seconds), with ayhan following close behind for second place (50.09). 
the irish continued to clinch first-place finishes in the freestyle and breast­stroke events. sophomore Justin plaschka won the 50­yard freestyle with a time of 
20.58 seconds, and junior trent Jackson (2:04.59) and freshman maciej olszewski 
(2:06.80) touched the wall to claim first and second in the 200-yard breaststroke. 
notre Dame dominated the pool in the team events as well. the irish finished first in the 200-yard med­ley relay and placed sec­ond through fourth in the 1,000-yard freestyle and 200-yard freestyle relays. 
the a relay team — com­posed of juniors reed Fujan and Jackson, senior michael Hudspith and freshman Daniel Fujan — also edged its way to first place in the 400-yard freestyle relay with a time of 3:02.49. 
“on the guys’ side, it’s a team effort because it’s just a depth kind of meet,” litzinger said. “our depth kind of overtook northwestern as the meet went on, and we kind of separated ourselves to­wards the end.” 
Going forward, litzinger said this meet is important as preparation for upcom­ing and increasingly signif­icant meets. 
“this is that time of the year where we’re getting ready for championship lev­el performances,” litzinger said. “we have a champi­onship simulation at the shamrock invitational, and then it’s all acc prepara­tion from here on out — so we’re looking at the pin­nacle performances during the next month or so.” 
the irish swim next at the shamrock invitational, which they will host at rolfs aquatic center on Jan. 29-30. 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu 
the irish dive back into action Jan. 29-30 when they host the shamrock invitational at rolfs aquatic center. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 

W Swim 
continueD From paGe 12 
the 100- and 200-yard rac­es. in the 100 breast, junior Danielle margheret took the top spot with a time of 1:03.76, while sophomore sherri mcintee (1:04.01) and freshman meaghan o’Donnell (1:05.04) claimed second and third, respec­tively. mcintee (2:17.67) won the the 200, with margheret 
(2:18.65) and o’Donnell 
(2:19.63) close behind. 
even with these perfor­mances, the irish only nar­rowly edged the wildcats, who also posted strong finishes. Junior lacey locke earned a second ncaa ‘b’ qualification this season for her first-place swim of 1:59.17 in the 200­yard backstroke. Freshman diver olivia rosendahl also notched two victories for the wildcats in the 1-meter and 3-meter events. 
miller said the win against northwestern gives her high hopes for the team for the rest of the season. 
“i hope that we contin­ue to support each other,” miller said. “if we do that, i believe we will be able to swim faster than we think we can in the next few weeks.” 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL ­PRIME LOCATION: 3BR house next to Eddy Street Commons is available for commencement weekend. Walk to everything. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for details and contact number. 
Home for Rent, avail. 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2016-2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@gmail.com 
PERSONAL 
Want a pro to help edit/pol­ish your dissertation or other research paper? Utilize an expe­rienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 
I see the place that we’ve been locked together, together. Like we were something more. And it felt like maybe we could last forever, forever. But you led them to our hideout. Forced their way inside now. 





EMILY  McCONVILLE | The Observer 

Irish senior Quentin Monaghan attempts a forehand during Notre Dame’s 4-3 win over NC State on April 18 at Courtney Tennis Center. Monaghan won his singles match Saturday against Michigan State. 
MEN’S TENNIS | nD 6, micHiGan state 1; nD 7, Detroit 0 

notre Dame cruises to season-opening sweep 
W Tennis 
continueD From paGe 12 
combinations. 
“we have been mixing playing sets and drilling,” louderback said. 
the experienced duo of se­nior Quinn Gleason and ju­nior monica robinson enter this season after a success­ful 2015 campaign that saw them go 22-9 and reach as high as no. 14 in the nation­al rankings. they secured an at-large berth to the ncaa Doubles championship, but robinson’s health prevent­ed the pair from competing during the fall. the no. 2 doubles pair will most likely be occupied by sophomores allison miller and brooke broda, who started to com­pete together at the end of the fall, while a combina­tion of juniors mary closs and Jane Fennelly and senior Julie vrabel will most likely take the no. 3 spot. 
the irish tested these and different doubles pairings in their last competition, the illinois blast tournament in early november. the teams of Fennelly and miller, Gleason and closs and freshman rachel chong and vrabel won their matches nov. 8, while broda and allison miller were the lone loss for the irish. nonetheless, the irish ended the tournament 3-6 in doubles, dropping all three matches played nov. 7. 

with two months of train­ing under the belt, the irish are ready for a new start un­der the leadership of their two seniors, Gleason and vrabel. 
“we are counting on our two seniors to provide lead­ership on and off the court,” louderback said. 
Gleason enters 2016 ranked no. 57 in singles, having put up a 6-2 record in the fall and advanced to the round of 16 at the ita midwest regional singles championship. she and robinson begin the sea­son ranked no. 32 nationally in doubles. 
while notre Dame is just beginning its season, western michigan is al­ready off to a quick start, beating oakland, 6-1, and valparaiso, 7-0, on saturday at west Hills athletic club in kalamazoo, michigan. 
For the irish to have success in the match, louderback said his players need to stay within themselves and can­not get caught up in the mis­takes they make. 
“we need to play one point at a time and let any errors we make go,” louderback said. 
after hosting the broncos, the irish fly to stillwater, oklahoma, for ita kickoff tournament at oklahoma state university this saturday at 1:30 p.m. 
the irish host western michigan to kick off their 2016 season tuesday at 6 
p.m. at eck tennis pavilion. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
notre Dame started its spring season strong saturday, defeating michigan state, 6-1, and Detroit, 7-0, at eck tennis pavilion. 
the irish (2-0) started quickly against the spartans (2-1), as the first two irish doubles duos cruised to easy victories against michigan state’s pairs by 6-1, 6-2 scores. senior eric schnurrenberger added to the irish lead by starting sin­gles play with a decisive 6-3, 6-2 win over spartans sopho­more Jasper koenen at no. 5 singles, before irish junior Josh Hagar won in the no. 4 flight, defeating michigan state freshman billy shisler 6-4, 6-0. irish senior alex lawson clinched the vic­tory by defeating spartans sophomore michael Dube 6-3, 6-3 at no. 3 singles. adding to the irish total, se­nior kenneth sabacinski de­feated spartans sophomore ivan rakic, and irish senior Quentin monaghan defeated fellow senior John patrick mullane in the no. 1 singles match, 6-4, 6-4, to close out a decisive irish victory. 
notre Dame continued its dominance in the second match against Detroit (0­1), as several young players stepped up to claim victo­ries for the irish. the irish claimed the doubles point in three flights before going on to dominate in the sin­gles matches. senior nicolas montoya did not drop a game in defeating titans freshman adam Zychowicz 6-0, 6-0 at the no. 6 match, while irish freshman Daniel rayl won at no. 5, defeating freshman nicholas solarewicz 6-0, 6-3. sabacinski grabbed his sec­ond win of the day to defeat titans senior rafael orantes 6-2, 6-2, at no. 3, securing the win for notre Dame. 
with the match already clinched, notre Dame fresh­man Grayson broadus de­feated Detroit sophomore nathan ponton 6-1, 6-3, at no. 2, while irish junior eddy covalschi bounced back from his loss against michigan state, defeat­ing titans junior patryk koscielski 7-6(8), 6-3 at the top flight. irish sophomore brendon kempin completed the sweep, defeating Detroit junior kacper stelmaszak 4-6, 7-6(4), 10-2 at no. 4 singles. 
next up for the irish is the ita kickoff weekend in champaign, illinois, this Friday and saturday. 



nDsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | tHe observer 


W Bball 
continueD From paGe 12 
three games. 
one of those deflections came on a big play in the fourth quarter in which she made a block from behind, snatched the loose ball, took it all the way downcourt, missed a layup but made her putback to lift the sellout purcell crowd to its feet. 
but by that time, the game was all but settled, despite a shaky first half for the irish. 
notre Dame trailed tennessee, 18-15, at the end of a first quarter in which the teams combined for nine turnovers, but the irish hit their stride in the second 10 minutes. 
ogunbowale scored her first nine points during that time, and the irish took a lead mid­way through the quarter that they never relinquished. they went into the locker room up 36-29, thanks in large part to a 15-2 tear to close the half. 
the irish took off from there in the third quarter, when they shot 71 percent from the field and never led by fewer than five points. notre Dame also locked down on defense in that time, allowing just 21 points in the second and third quarters while scoring 42 for themselves. 

“i just thought they at­tacked, they ran back doors. we knew what they were do­ing, and we just got undis­ciplined,” tennessee head coach Holly warlick said. “ … i thought we did a great job the first half of just keeping peo­ple in front of us, and the sec­ond half, we didn’t. we gave them open looks, and then we fouled jump shooters, we fouled people who were driv­ing to the basket. at times, we were not very disciplined and smart.” 
turnovers continued to be a problem for both teams, as the lady vols gave the ball away 20 times, while the irish did so 18 times. However, notre Dame was better able to capi­talize on its takeaways, tal­lying 24 points off turnovers, while tennessee managed 15. 
“we need to start talking about taking care of [the ball] better in different situations,” mcGraw said. “i think we were really sloppy to start the game, and that’s a problem for us because other teams get going in transition when we turn it over, too, so i think it’s something we’ve got to look at individually.” 
while notre Dame strug­gled in the game’s final two minutes, allowing 10 points, missing three free throws and committing three fouls in that stretch, the team’s cushion — as large as 25 points — was big enough that the sloppy plays never threatened the victory. 
after the nonconference win, the irish will resume their acc schedule thursday, when they face syracuse at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 




tHe observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2016 | nDsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nD 79, tennessee 66 
Balanced offense leads Irish over Volunteers 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
the first 20 times notre Dame faced tennessee, the lady volunteers came away with a win in each game. 
but irish head coach muffet mcGraw said she much pre­fers to think about the last six times, all of which notre Dame has won, including a 79-66 victory monday night at purcell pavilion. 
the no. 3 irish (17-1, 5-0 acc) relied on a balanced offensive attack through­out the night against the no. 18 lady vols (11-6, 2-2 sec), with six players in double-figure scoring — sophomore forwards brianna turner 
(14) and kathryn westbeld (13), freshman guards arike ogunbowale (14) and marina mabrey (13), graduate student guard madison cable (10) and junior guard lindsay allen (10). 
this marks the second time this season notre Dame has had that many players in dou­ble digits, with the first com­ing against valparaiso on nov. 23. 
“i think we’re harder to guard when everybody’s a threat, and i think that’s what makes our offense good,” mcGraw said. “ … i think any­time you put five people on the floor who can all score, you’re hard to guard.” 
the forwards westbeld and turner particularly stood out on the stat sheet, facing a tall­er tennessee lineup down low that included 6-foot-6 center mercedes russell, whom the pair limited to six points and six rebounds, while adding their own contributions on offense. 
“our post game [was] 13­for-17 from the field, just a tremendous day against some really, really good players, like mercedes russell and [forward] bashaara Graves — really, really great athletes, great players, really hard to score on, and i thought we did a really good job on them,” mcGraw said. 
turner also pulled down nine rebounds and tallied five blocks for the fourth time this season and the second time in 
see w bball PAGE 11 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

experienced squad set to begin season at home 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
the irish will play their first match in more than two months tuesday night when they host western michigan at eck tennis pavilion. 
During the long layover, the team has been working on being more assertive, ac­cording to irish head coach Jay louderback. 
“we have been working on being aggressive and win­ning points and not waiting for our opponents to make errors,” louderback said. 
with the hopes of reduc­ing their own errors, the irish enter the 2016 sea­son ranked 33rd nationally. they finished the last spring with a 14-12 record, ending eight matches in tight 4-3 scores. but a then-young irish squad returns with far more experience, as all six singles players from last season remain on the ros­ter, while louderback con­tinues to build his doubles 
see w tennis PAGE 10 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING | nD 156.5, nortHwestern 143.5 
ND bounces back with tight win 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
the irish took down northwestern, 156.5-143.5, in a closely contested meet saturday at rolfs aquatic center. 
after falling to virginia, 243-105, on Jan. 9, the irish bounced back in their third home meet of the season. Junior katie miller said she was pleased with the team’s performance saturday, es­pecially coming off a loss. 
“i think it was a great confidence build before heading into the shamrock invitational in a few weeks and then the conference meet,” miller said. “we were all quite surprised with how we were able to raise our game, knowing that it was going to be a close meet with northwestern.” 
the irish saw particularly strong finishes in the indi­vidual races. the squad’s younger members enjoyed a strong meet, with fresh­men ella moynihan (1:50.74) and kara sarazen (1:50.76) 
placing first and second, re­spectively, in the 200-yard freestyle. in the 100-yard backstroke, the irish took three of the top four spots. Junior catherine mulquin placed first with a time of 
54.71 seconds, followed by senior catherine Galletti and miller, who finished third and fourth, respectively. 
though the irish recorded solid performances in sev­eral different races, miller said sarazen’s runner-up finish to moynihan in the 200 free caused a huge swing in momentum. 
“kyra had a great race and was able to pull out second so that we went 1-2,” miller said. “seeing kyra push her­self like that really turned some heads and got us all wanting to fight a little bit more after we witnessed a teammate have a great race.” 
in addition to the freestyle and backstroke, notre Dame also swept the podium in the breastroke races, placing first through third in both 
see w swim PAGE 9 





