The IndePendenT neWsPAPer serVInG noTre dAme And sAInT mArY’s 



Faculty seeks to increase diversity 
Professors speak on lack of minority representation at Notre Dame 
By JACK ROONEY 
senior news Writer 
For Pamela nolan Young, notre dame’s new director of academic diversity and in­clusion, cultivating a diverse faculty is essential for any university. 
“There are lots of scholarly articles and research that point to the benefit of having a diverse faculty and student body — and staff, I would include professional staff in that as well,” Young said. “And some of them are very obvious. When you have dif­ferent perspectives address­ing the same issue, you have more enriched conversations. When you have different per­spectives addressing scien­tific research, you approach that research differently. You’re able to be more cre­ative and think about some of the solutions that you might propose.” 
In her role in the pro­vost’s office, Young said four components — recruitment, retention, development and communication — work to increase faculty diversity. 
Jason ruiz, an associate professor of American stud­ies, said faculty diversity plays a central role in provid­ing a well-rounded education. 
“I think our job as a university is to expose stu­dents to the diversity of the human experience across the disciplines,” ruiz said. “In or­der to do that, you need a di­verse faculty.” 
According to the most re­cent statistics from notre dame’s office of Institutional research, as of 2011, u.s. mi­norities comprised 15 percent of notre dame’s faculty. This figure places the university 
4.2 percent below the me­dian for fellow Association of American universities (AAu) institutions. According to statistics from the national center for education 
see dIVersITY PAGE 4 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
A rape was reported to a university administrator Friday, according to monday’s notre dame security Police (ndsP) crime log. 
The alleged rape occurred January 16 in a notre dame residence hall, according to the entry. 
students did not receive an email crime alert from ndsP alerting them that a report had been filed with the university, due to the fact the university did not identify the report as a timely threat, in accordance with the clery Act regulations. 
Information about sexual as­sault prevention and resources for survivors of sexual assault are available online from ndsP and from the committee for sexual Assault Prevention (csAP). 


2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: ABIGAIL WOZNIAK 



Professor explores economics in politics 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
Associate news editor 
Editor’s Note: Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, The Observer will sit down with Notre Dame experts to break down the election and its importance to stu­dents. In this tenth installment, 

the major changes they would ad­vocate, both in terms of how the government raises funds (fiscal policy) and how it spends them. Given these differences, the ul­timate outcome of this election will matter for the economy, but it 
That said, I see at least three areas where the next president will face critical tests. These are: [first], income inequality and shared economic opportunity; [second] trade; and [third] guid­ance through the next phase of the business cycle. In all three areas, long-run trends will con-


SMC alumna to host seminar to boost confidence 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s alumna molly bell, class of 1997, will host the third annual bloom seminar, in which middle she had a daughter, she felt compelled to do something to help young girls during a critical time in their growth. 

“‘love Your beauty’ is re­ally talking about, ‘Is beauty what you see on the outside 
school-aged girls and their or is beauty from the inside?’” 

Associate News Editor Rachel 
O’Grady asks associate professor 
of economics and former Senior 
Economist to the White House 
Council of Economic Advisers, 
Abigail Wozniak, about the eco­
tinue to play out but will require mothers will participate in she said. “even though every-

leadership to deal with their two workshops — “love Your thing around them is inundat­

consequences over the next four beauty” and “confidence: A ing them and telling them that 

to eight years. Income inequal-Journey” — to develop the outer beauty is where they’re 

ity and, more broadly, equality girls’ confidence and self-supposed to put the most em-

of opportunity, are key issues of esteem. The bloom seminar phasis, and that’s what defines 

nomic implications of the 2016 election. 
rachel o’Grady: As an eco­nomics professor, particularly in relation to your focus on labor economics, how will the results of this election effect the economy?
 Abigail Wozniak: The candi­dates — even within parties — have fairly different visions for is difficult to say how it will mat­ter without knowing the winner. because their plans are so differ­ent, it will matter for the economy who the ultimate winner is, but as of right now there is no single answer to the question of how the results will affect the economy. 

concern to primary voters across the political spectrum. This is a four-decade long trend that has reached a point where large numbers of voters are asking for policy to directly address this. Any winner will need to take steps in this area. rising trade is 
see elecTIon PAGE 5 
will run July 10 in conjunc­tion with the fine arts and sports camps at the college this summer. 
According to bell, the idea for the seminar stemmed from her role in advertising. she said she knew young women could be affected by the media, and when them, when you really step back and think about the wom­en that you love in your life and the women you look up to, the things that really matter come down to your inner beauty.” 

bell said this workshop fo­cuses on educating young girls 
see semInAr PAGE 5 




ndsmcobserver.com 

P.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Kayla mullen                       cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie Galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa Aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, Assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 

Post office Information The observer (usPs 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 Periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices PosTmAsTer send address corrections to: The observer P.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 The observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Is water wet? 

Andrew Baker 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Is Jesus christian?” 
Anne Marie Bonds 
freshman 
breen-Phillips hall 
“no.” 
Chris Page 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“If being wet means having  water on you, can water be wet?” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Emily Gust 
sophomore 
breen-Phillips hall 
“Why would water not be wet?” 
JP Bruno 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“Yes.” 
Chris Nunes 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“Is the sky blue?” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

nicole caratas hunter mcdaniel Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Jenna Wilson manny de Jesus 
r.J stempak 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Staff Mass Happy Mother’s Day Canines and Caffeine Study at the Snite Softball vs. Louisville 
emmet Farnan Austin Taliaferro 
Flanner Hall Fieldhouse Mall/Clarke Brownson Hall Museum Melissa Cook Stadium 
12:10 p.m. - 12:55 p.m. Memorial Fountain Courtyard Snite Museum of Art 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. Open to all faculty and 2 p.m. - 6 p.m. 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. 10 a.m. - 5 p.m. The Irish take on 
Corrections 

staff, located in St. Mother’s Day A study break with Free study spaces, the Cardinals in a 
The observer regards itself as Andre Chapel. festivities. dogs and coffee. coffee and snacks. doubleheader. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Snite Salon Series Physics Colloquium Mindful Meditation Diavolo/Architecture 11th Annual Midwest 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
Snite Mueseum of Art Nieuwland Hall of Coleman-Morse in Motion Conference 
however, recognize that we will make 
5 p.m. - 5:45 p.m. Science Center DeBartolo Performing McKenna Hall 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
Students, faculty 4 p.m. - 5 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Arts Center. all day 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
and staff will discuss Discussion on Open to students, 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. Presentation on 
we can correct our error. 

works of art. astrophysics. faculty and staff. Dance performance. function of proteins. 


Architecture students design housing options 
with chronic homelessness, 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
addiction and other dis­
abilities,” rollings said in an 

eight undergraduate ar-email. “The facility in south chitecture students, directed bend will be the area’s first by Kim rollings, assistant permanent supportive hous­professor of architecture, ing, with 32 one-bedroom presented design proposals apartments and a variety of Friday for a facility that will shared and support spaces, provide safe and affordable including outdoor space.” housing options for homeless rollings said she and people in south bend. the university’s school of 
“Permanent supportive Architecture became in-housing [Psh] links safe, af-volved in the Psh proj­fordable housing with social ect when she heard about support services that ad-it through the st. Joseph dress challenges associated county health Improvement 
news Writer 

PAId AdVerTIsemenT 


Alliance, where she spoke “some chose to focus on, about community-based for example, promoting a teaching and research. sense of community in the 
“I proposed the student building, while others fo­project to the south bend cused on providing restor­heritage Foundation, who ative spaces and access to will own the local supportive nature, and connecting the housing facility, and Alliance look of the building to his­
“The students really embraced the idea 
that this project was about people and 
not just about a building.” 
Kim Rollings 
assistant professor of architecture 
Architects, the local firm de­ toric  buildings  in  south  
signing the building,” she  bend,” rollings said.  
said. “They were very inter- The  project  began  with  
ested in learning from the  students  visiting  the  local  
students, as well as provid­ site and learning about per­ 
ing the students with a real­ manent  supportive  hous­ 
world project experience.”  ing, she said. Then, they  
rollings said eight of the  researched  connections  
fourth-year  architecture  between  architecture  and  
students in rolling’s healthy  physical, mental and social  
Places  studio  class  — who  health.  
chose to participate because  “I also took the students  
they  were  interested  in  to boston to study two suc­ 
building places that are “not  cessful  supportive  housing  
only  architecturally  suc­ examples designed by The  
cessful, but that also help  narrow  Gate  Architecture  
people” —   began working  ltd. [TnG],” rollings said.  
on the project in march.  “TnG,  started  by  three  

PAId AdVerTIsemenT 

notre dame alumni, pro­vides architectural services for marginally underserved populations. students visit­ed the firm and interviewed the architects then visited the housing facilities. They shared meals with and in­terviewed residents, which gave a voice to the resident population in the design process.” 
According to rollings, the project is primarily funded by a state grant award and tax credits and the students’ research and design ideas will inform the finalized de­sign of the building. 
“People struggling with chronic homelessness and other challenges often cycle in and out of shelters and require costly emergency medical and public safe­ty services,” rollings said. “Psh helps to break this cy­cle so people can regain sta­bility and move forward with their lives. 
“The students really em­braced the idea that this project was about people and not just a building.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 

The obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

Diversity 
conTInued From PAGe 1 
statistics, as of 2013, 21 per­cent of all full-time higher education faculty members were black, hispanic or Asian/Pacific Islander. 
despite the university’s rel­ative lack of faculty diversity, professor of political science darren davis said the issue is not unique to notre dame. 
“I think the most important thing is for people to under­stand that although the num­bers are low, these things are not unique to notre dame,” davis said. “other schools are in similar situations, and because of that, I don’t think there’s anything to be ashamed of. because, rela­tively speaking, every other university is in the same situ­ation. … so it’s an issue, but it’s not endemic to the culture at notre dame. 
“… It’s no different from many other universities,” davis said. “There’s not any­thing unique to notre dame that makes it inhospitable to minority candidates.” 
Young, who has held similar diversity and inclusion posi­tions at smith college, north shore community college and in the private sector, said all colleges and universities grapple with similar issues. 
“diversity and inclusion is difficult for every higher edu­cation institution,” she said. “even those institutions that feel like they’re doing very well or feel that it’s very easy for them to attract top talent 
— so harvard or stanford or the university of chicago — are all striving to do better.” 
several factors present bar­riers to notre dame building a more diverse faculty, davis said. 
“The first reason is that there are not many [minor­ity] Ph.d.s to begin with,” he said. “so, if you look at the various disciplines, you don’t normally see a lot of mi­norities with Ph.d.s who are also interested in going into academia.” 
ruiz said the overall lack of minority representation in higher education is a histori­cal problem. 
“It’s definitely a product of history, including the ways in which institutions of higher education excluded non­white people for the vast ma­jority of their histories,” he said. “Things have changed dramatically for undergradu­ate students and admission and recruitment, but, at the graduate level, we still see tremendous disparities in a variety of fields.” 
davis also said notre dame’s high academic stand­ing places it in a competitive market for all faculty, includ­ing minorities. 
“many schools like a notre dame are interested in hiring people who will be success­ful, academics who will be successful,” he said. “so that ruiz said this practice catholic social teaching and means there are many other would immediately impact being an inclusive commu­universities and colleges like recruitment, but also aid in nity should be attractive notre dame who are compet-retention efforts for minority — particularly attractive ing for those candidates as faculty members. to minority candidates, not well.” just catholics, but across the 
ruiz said notre dame’s “I think the philosophy of board. That is something that physical location may also the cluster hire is that peo-intrigued me and convinced prevent some minority faculty ple come in as cohorts who me to come here.” members from coming here. have similar backgrounds highlighting these attri­

mulating  recruitment  and  
retention  strategies,  more  
effective  communication  

“I think one of the problems and are interested in similar butes that separate notre I hear again and again about intellectual questions and, dame from peer institutions notre dame when we’re hiring therefore, feel more ground-would help the university is location,” he said. “There’s a ed here,” he said. “because succeed in the competitive 
“Other schools are in similar situations, and because of that, I 
don’t think there’s anything to be ashamed of. Because relatively 
speaking, every other university is in the same situation. ... So it’s 
an issue but it’s not endemic to the culture of Notre Dame.” 
Darren Davis 
professor of political science 
sense that south bend is going one thing that’s really hard faculty market, davis said. to be a difficult sell for super as a faculty member is to be “The way that I see notre strong minority faculty mem-the only person on a campus dame is we’re in a com­bers who have opportunities from your background and petitive market for the to work in big cities, on the to be the only person who best faculty we can get,” he coasts.” does that type of work. You’re said.“everyone is after them 
These barriers, and more, alone. You’re a lone wolf. It’s — everyone. And we have to may make it seem as if notre hard to see yourself repre-figure out what we do better dame is in a bleak situation for sented here when you’re one than other similarly situated faculty diversity, professor of of one. I think cluster hiring universities. political science and Africana is the number one thing that “notre dame is not the only studies diane Pinderhughes could have immediate and with resources. notre dame said. dramatic impact on faculty is not the only place with a 
“It’s hard to have confi-diversity.” long sports tradition. notre dence,” Pinderhughes said. davis said in order to gen-dame is not the only place “There’s more communica-erate a more diverse faculty, where you can go and have tion about the university’s notre dame should empha-good colleagues. so we have commitment to diversity in size its unique aspects, in-to think about, in my opin­the past year or so. … but cluding its catholic identity. ion, what separates us from when I think around the cam-“our unique catholic iden-aspirational peers who are pus about the numbers and tity is and should be high-similarly situated economi­the progress [minority] people ly attractive,” davis said. cally and intellectually.” are making through the ten-“our focus on social justice, And while Young, who ure ranks and the numbers of 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 
people and the fact that there’s 
not consistently a range of full professors or professors with chairs in the university, this is a problem. There are also very few African Americans in higher administrative levels.” 
still, ruiz said notre dame fosters faculty diversity in some fields, while others need more attention. 
“For latinos, notre dame is considered a great place,” he said. “We have a relative­ly strong number of latino faculty members and fac­ulty members who do latino studies. I think other ethnic studies are more obviously underrepresented among the faculty, especially African American faculty members and anyone interested in do­ing Asian American studies and American Indian studies.” 
In order to increase faculty diversity, ruiz said he would advocate for “cluster hiring.” 
“my number one thing I think notre dame could do to increase faculty diversity would be to engage in cluster hiring,” he said. “I’ve seen oth­er schools have tremendous success in hiring not one fac­ulty member who does Asian American studies, but hire seven across a wide array of disciplines, so a psychologist, an American studies person, a sociologist and a historian, all of whom are interested in the Asian American experience.” 

began her job earlier this month, said her brief time in the new position has pre­vented her from fully for-
will advance the mission of increasing faculty diversity. 
“When I interviewed for the job, someone said to me that the university tends to be very modest and that they’re not in the habit of advertising and boasting about their activities,” she said. “And this is an area where to attract top talent, they have to know and see that there is a commitment and that you’re already in­volved in doing the work. And so it requires a very public presence about your deliberate actions, and I think that’s one think I’ll try to encourage the university to do differently — to make known what’s currently hap­pening on campus more prominent.” 
ultimately, Young said, increasing faculty diversity will benefit all members of the notre dame community. 
“oftentimes, individu­als think about diversity and inclusion as an aside or an add-on,” she said. “The practices and changes that will come about based on my work, if they come into frui­tion, will help every faculty member on campus.” 
Contact Jack Rooney at  jrooney@nd.edu 



Washington are working incred-AW: Yes, this absolutely will 
depression and they feel this 
Election 
Seminar 

ibly hard, with the best of inten-be a key issue in the national 
pressure for perfection,” she 
conTInued From PAGe 1 
conTInued From PAGe 1 

tions, on very difficult problems. election and beyond, and for 
said. “by doing that report, 
This actually became more clear space I’d say see my response to 
[the college] sent the message 
another multi-decade trend that from working with them for four-the first question. 
about issues surrounding fe-that [it is a] part of Indiana and 
male beauty, such as objecti-part of wanting to make sure 
is unlikely to reverse in a ma-teen months. on issues that are roG: both parties propose 
jor way. The next president will being forgotten: Immigration has pretty radical economic ideas. 
fication, while “confidence: women’s health is addressed as 
A Journey” focuses more on a whole. 
need to work with congress to been addressed, but useful spe-do any of them hold water, i.e. 
confidence in a more realistic “not only just the women 
keep the u.s. competitive and cifics are missing. The economic could sanders or cruz’s plans 
involved in the global market-case for immigration — which is actually work? 
sense. that are students but for young 
place while also putting in place a complicated one — also often AW: economists are often 
“confident isn’t something women in their state. my pro-
we just decide we’re going to gram also speaks to that — 
protections for u.s. workers af-gets inadequate attention. The cautious of plans that say they 
be,” bell said. “It’s actually a that saint mary’s is invested 
fected by trade. And finally, we reality is that many natives ben-are going to fix complicated 
state of being that is in flux. in young women and women’s 
have reached a record business efit from admitting immigrants, problems in a simple way. many 
With girls, we always tell them, health.” 
cycle expansion. Were the busi-but some do not benefit, and we economists agree that the tax 
‘We want you to be empowered The seminar is targeted at 
ness cycle to turn, executive rarely have a conversation about code could be simplified. many 
branch leadership would be key how those two groups need to also agree that college finan­
and we want you to be confi-girls in fifth through seventh 
dent,’ but for a lot of young girls, grade because they are on the 
to minimizing the negative ef-be brought together to reach a cial aid could be simplified. but 
fects of this. What we learned solution that helps both. It’s also radically simplifying such poli­
it feels daunting.” verge of puberty and are trying 
from the Great recession is not as simple as saying that we cies is often difficult. This is be-
According the bell, this work-to find who they are, bell said. 
shop will show girls that confi-bell said she hopes her semi-
that appropriately timing relief should imitate other national cause things that sound simple, 
— in adequate amounts — for systems that prioritize skilled like “income,” have to be de­
dence comes from bravery. nar helps girls create conver­
workers and states affected by migrants. That’s a policy that fined and monitored, and that 
“We gain confidence by fear sations about issues regarding 
and overcoming fear,” she said. confidence and self-esteem. 
downturns can prevent longer, should be on the table, but the is harder than it sounds. such 
deeper slumps and is key to u.s. has a long and I think admi-policies also create incentives 
“When something tragic hap-“First and foremost, I hope 
pens in our lives, the confi-they have a fun, empower-
making sure families have the rable history of admitting indi-for individuals and businesses 
dence comes from getting back ing day together,” she said. 
safety net they need when the viduals who are seeking a better to try to avoid being in the cat-
business cycle turns negative. life, and we should not ignore egory that has to pay for a pro­
up...confident women are usu-“hopefully, they can take just 
ally women that have a story.” one thing away from that day 
roG: You served as senior either that history or the fact that gram, not because they are bad 
economist to the White house it has brought us certain benefits people necessarily but because 
In 2013, saint mary’s pub-and go forth and either share it 
council of economic Advisors that other countries lack, like a this is a fairly natural response 
lished “The status of Girls in with each other or share it with 
(ceA) last year. What did you diverse workforce and a popula-to a situation where you’re asked 
Indiana,” the first compre-others. I don’t think you can 
learn in the White house, and tion of entry-level workers with a to share a lot with strangers. so 
hensive study on the health solve all these problems and 
and well-being of girls done in find answers to them in one 
more importantly, what areas strong work ethic. what seemed simple then re­
did you see for the improvement roG: The minimum wage quires monitoring and excep-
Indiana. day, but my hope is that it gives 
“saint mary’s was really feel-them some tools that as they 
in the coming years? Are these debate is gaining traction na-tions, and these make the reality 
candidates forgetting to address tionwide, but has seen little play likely to be more complicated 
ing strongly that they wanted leave the seminar, they feel like 
anything? in the recent presidential de-than expected. 
to respond to some of these it continues.”
 AW: I had a great experience bates. do you think this will be 
statistics, one of which that 

high school girls seem that they Contact Nicole Caratas at  
on the ceA staff, and I take ev-a key issue in the election and Contact Rachel O’Grady at  
have more of an incidence of ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
ery chance to say that people in beyond? rogrady@nd.edu 
PAId AdVerTIsemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Odd year blues 
Marek Mazurek 
sports editor 

don’t look now folks, but we’re a third of the way through 2016 and already we have a lot to talk about. 
There’s been a leap day and hotly con­tested battles for the presidential nomi­nations, and that’s not to mention the upcoming summer olympics. 
Yet maybe — ladies and gentlemen — it’s time to take a step back and ask our­selves if there are too many events for one year to handle. 
Think about it. every four years, we get one megayear that jams a ton of cool events into the span of 365 days. A whole leap day, the presidential election and the summer olympics? how is any one person supposed to take in all of these life changing happenings in ad­dition to the regular annual hustle and bustle? how can I focus my full attention on what donald Trump just screamed at megyn Kelly if I have to celebrate February 29th as well? 
Just think, until 1992, both the summer and the Winter olympics took place in the same year. 
And on top of all that, in 2020, we have to factor in the u.s. census as well. 
Though the mega year is the best ex­ample of this travesty, the problem goes deeper than that. In addition to the busy calendars in 2016 and 2020, 2014 and 2018 are also jam-packed with midterm elections, the Winter olympics and the World cup. 
so if we look at this problem closely, we see a systematic exclusion of odd years when it comes to these regularly-scheduled important occurrences. What big thing happened in 2011? exactly. 
Thus, my proposition to the powers that be is to spread out some of these events to give people some breath­ing room. Give the odd numbered years some events and let them shine. It doesn’t have to be too much, just a Winter olympics here, a midterm elec­tion there. Just a little bit would go a long way towards allowing people to digest the events that matter to them. 
so without further ado, here is my pro­posed schedule starting in 2020. 
2020: Presidential election, because it feels like knowing who the leader of the free world is before we plan all these other international events seems like a good idea. 
2021: Winter olympics and leap Year, because why not. 
2022: midterm elections and the World cup, because the constitution mandates it. 
2023: summer olympics, because this huge event deserves a year to itself. 
2024: rinse and repeat. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 
In terms of annoying holidays, “420” falls some­where between Guy Fawkes day and International Talk-like-a-Pirate day. The Internet, and occasion­ally real life, becomes infested with annoying stoners agitating for their hobby. In recent years, recreational cannabis use has been legitimized as a number of states move toward legalization. 
A driving factor behind the liberalization of can­nabis laws is the public perception that cannabis use does not harm users. This is simply untrue. cannabis abuse increases the risk of lung cancer, reduced brain volume, memory impairment, schizophrenia, mouth cancers and chronic cardiovascular conditions. 
While we’re on the subject, let’s dispel the myth that “marijuana never killed anyone.” It’s true that acute Thc toxicity is an extremely rare cause of death, though cannabis-induced heart attacks and strokes are not unheard of. but to equate that to “zero deaths” is ignorant at best and intentionally mislead­ing at worst. cases of smokers chaining marlboros until they overdose on nicotine are similarly dif­ficult to find, but no one would dare to call tobacco harmless. 
now, I can already hear the outraged cries of the libertarians. “Well, who cares? big brother has no business regulating what I put into my body. I’m not hurting anyone, and the sole responsibility of gov­ernment is to prevent people from hurting each oth­er. by the way, have you heard the good news of our lord and savior Ayn rand?” 
First off, I always get disturbed whenever I hear “big brother” name-dropped to describe an oppres­sive or overreaching state. After all, I’m a big brother myself, and I consider myself to be a positive influ­ence on my brother’s life (most of the time, anyway). but I digress. 
let’s ignore for a moment the externalities involved with drug abuse that result in users transferring their own self-harm onto others via increased public medi­cal spending, drug-addled decision making and so on. even allowing that shaky premise, there are years of precedent for the government regulating private behavior, and it is unquestionable that our society is better off for it. 
one of the best examples of benevolent government regulation is in the construction of cars. A company might very well want to sell a car with no seat belts and an engine with a propensity to explode, and the consumer might very well want to buy it. however, statistics indicate that such a car is enormously dan­gerous. rather than allow uninformed consumers to make fatal mistakes, the government instead deter­mines that no such vehicle is to be sold. 

or consider the passage of the civil rights Acts in the 1960s. When the opponents of this legislation weren’t arguing from a position of outright racism, they often couched their arguments in terms of “in­dividual liberty.” Further, they made claims that the free market would fix the problem of segregation, as integrated businesses would have a competitive advantage. Yet it was government intervention that eventually resulted in integration. With the benefit of hindsight, we can see how a sacrifice of personal liberty resulted in an overall benefit to society. of course, that hasn’t stopped libertarians from scorn­ing the Acts’ passage or conservatives using similar liberty-based arguments to support laws sanctioning anti-lGbTQ discrimination. 
but perhaps the case most closely related to can­nabis is pharmaceutical regulation. back before the Food and drug Administration (FdA) existed, quacks could freely make unsubstantiated health claims about various chemicals, even to the point of selling dangerous compounds as medicine. Fortunately, the government realized that the average person lacks the time to conduct their own meta-analysis of the peer-reviewed literature, and so banned dangerous or ineffective substances from being sold as medication —now they have to be called “supplements.” based on the numerous, well-studied negative health ef­fects of cannabis abuse, it is unlikely that the FdA or any other consumer product regulatory body would approve cannabis for public consumption — un­less, of course, they are pressured to do so by the pot lobby. 
clearly, some people get enjoyment out of abusing drugs, including cannabis (I wouldn’t know). And maybe drugs are different than other products regu­lated and recalled for public safety reasons: no one was trying to make Firestone tires in their garage. but based upon our existing consumer protection laws, it doesn’t make sense for the federal government to allow consumers to purchase cannabis. And to those who claim that personal liberty should override any sort of regulation, I can only say — what have you been smoking? 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes  discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Laetare Medal: Then and now 
some time ago I resolved not to tangle in fruitless spats with the catholic right. however, Tim bradley’s precocious claim in an April 14 letter to The observer declaring Vice-President biden unworthy of the laetare medal proved too great a goad. Apparently, biden’s pro-choice position puts him beyond the or­thodox pale. bradley writes, “The sanctity of human life and the nature of marriage as an indissoluble bond between one man and one woman are funda­mental teachings of the church. Abortion and mar­riage are non-negotiable. … There are other issues, like immigration policy, environmental regulations and care for the poor, on which the church permits prudential decision-making in light of broader prin­ciples.” Phew! 
The above shows how out of touch the catholic right is with the teachings of the prophetic Jew, Jesus. For Jesus, the touchstone of faith is the “non-nego­tiable” requirement he lays out in the beatitudes, matthew 25: “come you that are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foun­dation of the world; for I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you gave me clothing, I was sick and you took care of me, I was in prison and you visited me.” In other words, discipleship is nugatory unless based in these commands. The catholic right’s second per­son of the Trinity is more christ Pantocrator as de­picted in byzantine art. here Jesus is represented as an impassive figure, omnipotent and the severe judge of all humanity standing above and outside history. Think of the contrast with matthew’s Jesus who was immersed in the thick of human history, mixing with sinners and breaking bread with them. 
my spouse, a devotee of John XXIII, thinks the holy spirit went AWol during the conclaves that gave us John Paul II and benedict XVI and was delighted when it returned, in the nick of time, to land on Jorge mario bergoglio, now Pope Francis. his task would be to deliver a sclerotic Tridentine church from its defensive entropy. under John Paul and benedict the church had been losing its prophetic and merciful edge, becoming instead the dispenser of what the German martyr dietrich bonhoeffer called “cheap grace.” That is “grace as doctrine, a principle, a sys­tem … the grace we bestow on ourselves.” costly dis­cipleship based in the beatitudes was discouraged. 
For example, liberation theology with its option for the poor in latin America was virtually stamped out. consider the case of Archbishop oscar romero of el salvador. The Vatican was not happy with his unremitting commitment to the dispossessed and did virtually nothing to confront the catholic military thugs who murdered him. Following romero’s death Pope John Paul was lukewarm at best about any for­mal recognition of his martyrdom. And in Argentina during the dirty War, when the fascist junta was torturing its opponents and then dropping them from helicopters into the sea, the Papal nuncio there, Archbishop Pio laghi, was a frequent tennis partner to these generals. doubtless, Pope Francis’ emphasis on God’s mercy comes from his experience of this period in Argentinian history. It also explains why he is doing an end run around those Vatican diktats that obsess the catholic right. In short, Francis is restor­ing the church’s foundational commitment to the beatitudes. 
Finally, I would like to revisit an earlier time when the catholic right organized to protest an invitation to a pro-choice individual. I was at that commencement in 2009 when President barack obama was speaker. 

much of the drama then centered around the laetare medal recipient of that year, harvard law Professor mary Ann Glendon, who had close ties to the Vatican and Pope John Paul II. she turned down the award, refusing to share the stage with the pro-choice president. 
At that very moment, the judgmental Glendon was publicly supporting an infamous criminal, Fr. marcial maciel, founder of the ultra-orthodox order of the legion of christ. maciel enjoyed the pope’s patronage and was known to be delivering bundles of cash to the Vatican donated by right-wing catholics, including former cIA director William casey. As far back as the 1990s, an American journalist Jason berry was writ­ing in the national catholic reporter that maciel was being accused of sexual abuse by former seminarians. nevertheless mary Ann Glendon stood by maciel, calling his accusers liars right up to the time she re­fused the laetare medal. moreover, it was only after the death of John Paul that maciel was moved by Pope benedict into seclusion within the Vatican walls. 
but, to return the commencement of 2009, President obama did address the abortion issue, arguing that it should be kept legal but rare in our pluralistic society. he went on to spell out ways this could be achieved — an ample welfare net for unin­tentionally pregnant poor women and comprehensive sex education in schools, for example. such policies had reduced the incidence of abortion in many west­ern european countries to levels vastly lower than those in the united states. 
The president received a standing ovation. 
Ann Pettifer 
class of 1976 April 23 
laetare: In defense of nd decision 
laetare (“rejoice”), notre dame! congratulations! You have wisely and courageously decided to honor Vice-President Joe biden and speaker John boehner. Thus you teach that public service is the noblest way of life and the surest road to heaven, and that the real pur­pose of an education is to learn to think on your own. 
university President Fr. John Jenkins makes the university’s position clear: “It is a good time to remind ourselves what lives dedicated to genuine public ser­vice in politics look like. We find it in the lives of Vice President biden and speaker boehner.” 
understandably, many alumni and current students disagree with Jenkins, claiming in a march 18 letter to The observer that giving the award to biden is a “blatant disregard for the injunction of the catholic bishops.” 
The major objections to biden receiving the award are that he does not profess the extreme pro-life posi­tion that the fetus is a human person from the moment of conception, that he upholds roe v. Wade and that he embraces same-sex marriage. 
biden, a conscientious catholic American, does his own thinking on the disputed issues of contraception, abortion and same-sex marriage like the majority of Americans and catholics in this country. 
The moral principle at issue in these disputed mat­ters is simply that we should choose the lesser evil in order to avoid a greater evil. President John Kennedy in­voked this principle while negotiating with chairman nikita Khrushchev during the cuban missile crisis, which resulted in the soviet union removing its mis­siles from cuba when the u.s. agreed to secretly re­move its Jupiter missiles from Turkey in order to avoid a suicidal war. 
upon closer scrutiny, some of these “un-catholic” positions of biden will appear to be no less “catholic.” 
Contraception 

Pope Francis openly admitted that even Pope Paul VI, the architect of “humanae vitae,” “permitted nuns to use contraceptives in cases of rape” in the 1960s in the former belgian congo. Pope Francis himself does not find any problem with contraception against the Zika virus just as Pope benedict XVI had no problem with the use of condoms in order to avoid hIV infection. Admittedly, there are acceptable uses of contraceptives in order to avoid greater evils. 
Abortion 
Granting abortion as sinful, sometimes we do toler­ate limited abortion in order to avoid a greater evil: the principle of double effect. 
biden and many catholic faithful continue to tolerate limited abortion as a lesser evil instead of treating all abortions as murder. This nuanced position rejects the extreme pro-choice position seemingly advocated in the hebrew bible, according to which only if the death of the mother takes place should abortion be treated as murder: “If men quarrel, and one strike a woman with child, and she miscarry, but live herself: he shall be answerable for so much damage as the woman’s husband shall require, and as arbiters shall award. but if her death ensues thereupon, he shall render life for life.” (exodus 21:22-23) The rationale being the fetus is the property of the mother and not yet a separate hu­man being. 
The extreme pro-life position is based on the Pythagorean theory that pre-existing human souls are infused into the fetus at the very moment of concep­tion. st. Augustine counters by saying that the bible does not say anywhere when exactly the soul is infused into the embryo. 
The Greek septuagint bible, used in the Gospels, of­fers the moderate, middle-of-the-road solution to the dilemma about the criminality and culpability of abor­tion during the early stages of pregnancy: “And if two men strive and smite a woman with child, and her child be born imperfectly formed, he shall be forced to pay a penalty; as the woman’s husband may lay upon him, he shall pay with a valuation. but if it be perfectly formed, he shall give life for life.” (ex.21:22-23) 

After the first trimester of pregnancy, the new Testament seems to recommend adoption as the right course of action, as implied in the birth-story of Jesus, where Joseph adopts Jesus as his foster son when mary returned home exactly three months after her concep­tion and self-exile from being stoned to death for be­coming pregnant outside of marriage. (deuteronomy 22:13-21) 
Jesus once reportedly made this mysterious state­ment: “Woe to that man by whom the son of man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.” (mark 14:21) What did Jesus mean? choose the lesser evil? 
Same-Sex Marriage 
It appears that the majority of Americans now think, as the supreme court does, that allowing the use of the “legal fiction” of “marriage” to same-sex unions is a lesser evil than the greater evil of denying equal rights to gay Americans under the constitution. We may have our political difficulties and theological disagreements as we try to come to terms with this fact of life that marriage equality is legal in this land. remember, too, even the bible applies the term “marriage” to God’s relationship to his people. (Apoc.19:7; 21:9; ephes. 5:22­33; etc) 
Finally, any negative partisan images of biden and boehner seem to pale beside their brilliant record of public service. don’t you think Pope Francis, who en­tertained and honored the pro-choice bernie sanders at the Vatican, would approve of Jenkins’ decision on the laetare medal honorees? 
Zacharias Thundy 
class of 1969 April 22 

By JACK RIEDY 
scene Writer 

dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to get through the loss of a legend. Prince rogers nelson died last Thursday in his Paisley Park estate in chanhassen, minnesota. he was 57. In the ensuing days, tributes to the musician have come from all over the cultural landscape, from Paul mccartney tweeting about ringing in the new Year with him to President obama referring to him as “one of the most gifted and prolific musicians of our time.” The cast of broadway phenomenon sensation “hamilton” released videos dancing along to “let’s Go crazy,” and edm duo Jack Ü closed their coachella set with remixes of his music. Fans took to the streets to share stories and sing their favorite songs together. The fences outside Paisley Park, a combination record­ing studio and rehearsal space, have become a de facto shrine, lined with flowers, posters and other remembrances. 
Known solely by his first name, Prince was a singer, songwriter and multi-instrumen­talist who released over 40 albums in his life­time and sold more than 100 million copies worldwide. his music incorporated influence from many greats that came before him: Jimi hendrix’s blistering guitar, James brown’s airtight band, Joni mitchell’s emotional openness and david bowie’s willingness to 
By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
scene Writer 

I have always found it ironic that one of the most stigmatized genres of music has in fact been the locus of some of the greatest inno­vation heard under the electronic umbrella, particularly in the past decade. The equation of techno with the debauchery of rave culture probably has its roots in the early 1990s, when hedonist producers shaped the subgenre into a massively popular phenomenon whose most recent equivalent might just be the rap­id flourishing of edm — “electronic dance music” à la calvin harris and Avicii — in the very early 2010s. like edm, with which it is of­ten confused, techno is frequently dismissed as redundant and creatively bankrupt, the delight solely of a nose-wrinkling particular group of people. but unlike edm, which is on a slow but sure decline for these very reasons, techno has long since transcended the level of nightclub decadence and become instead the domain of some of the most creative voic­es in electronic production today. 
Artists like Wolfgang Voigt and ricardo Villalobos — and Actress and nicolas Jaar more recently — have significantly shaped the form that techno has taken today. but Andy stott is perhaps the best example of a current producer mining the genre for its best qualities. by exploiting the penchant of experiment. The result was an irresistible blend of funk, r&b, rock and pop that, even as it evolved, remained uniquely Prince. 
The son of a pianist father and a jazz singer mother, Prince learned guitar, piano, drums and other instruments at a young age. he signed a recording contract with Warner bros. records at only 18, and his first few al­bums were moderate successes. “1999,” the album and its lead single, catapulted him into the mainstream. From there, Prince convinced his label to cast him as the star in a low-budget film called “Purple rain.” The semi-autobiographical story of a musician fighting for love and respect in minneapolis had youthful energy and an incredible nine-song soundtrack behind it, leading to its mas­sive success. When Prince strutted and slid onstage singing “baby I’m a star,” it was a self-fulfilling prophecy. 
he reveled in androgyny, appearing on­stage in high heels, frilly shirts and reveal­ing chaps. When Prince sang “I’m not a woman /I’m not a man / I am something that you’ll never understand,” he challenged cul­tural standards of gender and sexuality. 
bolder still, on that song Prince assumes the perspective of the messiah. “I Would die 4 u” is one of his more overtly religious songs, but his preoccupation with God was nearly as ubiquitous as his sexual musings. The two frequently came together, such as on “Forever In my life,” which can be heard as a pledge of 
his audience for devilishly high volumes and distorting the pulsing beat and bass of the music into a gruelingly thick aural aesthetic that all the while still retains the integrity of the genre, stott has not only set himself apart from his contemporaries but has wholly reimagined what techno can achieve. In this way, stott is to techno today what The Avalanches was to house in the late 1990s and burial was to dubstep in the mid-2000s. 
This is especially true since his critical breakthrough in 2011 with the paired ePs “Passed me by” and “We stay Together,” on which he test-runs the silvery sleek yet mono­lithically loud sounds he would perfect on “luxury Problems,” the 2012 follow-up lP on which he gives life to a dusky neo-noir land­scape that is both impersonal and sensual in a delightfully jarring symbiosis. If a sequel in the same spirit would have been welcome by any, stott nonetheless determined to modify his aesthetic yet again, this time opting for a slicker sound on the diamond-cut “Faith in strangers” in 2014. The decision was a testa­ment to the producer’s genuine exploratory drive, and the notion is only the more sup­ported on stott’s latest lP, “Too many Voices.” 
In many ways, the aesthetic of “Too many Voices” is not entirely novel. stott never ceases to delight in impossibly resonant bass and in the affecting qualities of disembod­ied vocalization; The result is as emotionally fidelity to both a lover or to a deity. mixing the divine and the carnal would be blasphemous to most, but to Prince they were both paths to personal liberation, ways to get free. 
When it came to execution of his craft, save for God, Prince would answer to no one. Though he had his share of collaborators and backing bands, he was more than capable of creating albums himself. The same was true of concerts; the last Prince performance be­fore his passing was a solo outing where he performed with, as the title put it, a piano and a microphone. 
In the wake of his passing, three of his al­bums are in billboard’s Top 10 this week, and six songs sit on the iTunes Top songs chart. despite renewed interest, the release of his previously announced memoir or any of the music from his famed vault remain uncertain. 
I visited Paisley Park once before Prince’s passing, in July of 2014. When Prince an­nounced a listening party on Twitter the same weekend as my cousin’s minnesota wedding, I knew I had to seize the opportu­nity. As my family settled into line dances at the reception, I absconded to the enormous compound, the outside walls bathed in pur­ple light. 
Through sheer luck, I was ushered with a small group of others into a studio for a pri­vate listening session with the members of Prince’s backing band, 3rdeYeGIrl. We 
dichromatic as his previous works. but while the album’s sound palette will sound famil­iar, stott’s approach is unlike anything of his that we have previously heard. 
Inspired by what he terms “synthetic, par­allel world” sounds, stott’s latest work echoes with aggressive elasticity, like the flexing of ruthless bionic arms. Tracks that would be otherwise smooth and lively here are infused with an intoxicated fourth-world quality that is very compelling, if not also a bit dizzying. on “new romantic,” an arousing house ballad is warped by colossal snares that au­dibly disintegrate in their loudness, while drowsy accents on “First night” float about a gloomy tableaux as a kick bass zips back and forth over the aural plane. meanwhile, lead single “butterflies” encapsulates the album’s oblique sound in a bouncy track that is stott’s most soulful to date, while the brusque per­cussive artillery of “selfish” features stott’s most hostile production yet in what feels like a supercharged version of “up the box” from “luxury Problems.” 
stott’s fresh experimentation with tempo is worth noting also, as it particularly accen­tuates the surreal plastic aesthetic of “Too many Voices.” on “Waiting for You” and al­bum highlight “Forgotten,” stott capriciously injects speed into his sound; the disorient­ing effect evokes the tendencies of vanguard musical styles like vaporwave. If intentional, walked past Grammys, mTV moonmen and, most impressive of all, the motorcycle from “Purple rain.” The band members were charming and enthusiastic about the new al­bum, asking for feedback after each song and answering questions in turn. The famous symbol gleamed from the center of every speaker and mixing console as the blues-rock washed over us in immaculately high fidelity. 

An innocuous telephone rang. hannah Welton, the drummer, answered and in­formed us that Prince was on the line. When she told him that I, along with my dad and two cousins, had left a wedding to come to the listening party, she put him on speaker­phone just long enough to hear him laugh. 
he could have been calling from down the hall or across the world. When we were ush­ered back out into the lobby, I handed cash to a staff member for a poster of our host, just to have some concrete proof that the experience hadn’t been a dream. It was like visiting Willy Wonka’s music factory, the White house of funk. 
despite the outpost in minnesota, Prince sang that “Paisley Park is in your heart.” For fans, that inclusion opened doors, encourag­ing pure self-expression and complete free­dom. Prince was a truly unique spirit who is gone too soon, but his legacy will last forever, and that’s a mighty long time. 
Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu 
stott’s latest work would acquire compelling conceptual undertones to recall the rave-as­meditation of Wolfgang Voigt’s Gas project and the musical deconstructionism of va­porwave itself. 
And I do believe that it is intentional, be­cause the way in which stott pushes the techno envelope on “Too many Voices” 
— drawing from the precedent of previous innovators in crafting an innovative product of his own — is indicative of an artist with an ulterior motive beyond the dance floor. on Andy stott’s latest, you will hear much more than the mere “now” of techno; you will en­counter a window looking to what is yet to come 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at asanch11@nd.edu 
“Too Many Voices” 
Andy Stott 
Label: Modern Love 
Tracks: “New Romantic,” “Forgotten” If you like: Actress, Burial 


ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene Writer 

beyoncé has once again single-hand­edly derailed that very meticulous study schedule you took the time to plan out for finals week with the release of the highly anticipated, and highly mysterious, proj­ect “lemonade.” 
The 34-year-old artist did little to pro­mote the premiere other than a vague Instagram post earlier in the week, which is more notice than beyoncé has given her “hive” fan base in the past (referring the 2013 drop of her fifth studio album, “beyoncé,” without any prior promo­tion). Fans were left pondering if this was the album they had been waiting for ever since bey dropped “Formation” and announced her 2016 world tour of the same name in February. They were not disappointed. 
The visual album was a 60-minute broadcast on hbo, a short film that com­bined beyoncé’s newest music, spoken 
By SAM FENTRESS 
scene Writer 

In a master class last Wednesday, German director margarethe von Trotta said “imagination is more truthful than documents you find.” she was referencing the process of research for her biographi­cal films, but this rings particularly true of von Trotta’s imagination, which has pro­vided the world with more than 20 feature films since “The lost honor of Katharina blum,” her 1975 directorial debut. she has been called “narrative cinema’s foremost feminist filmmaker,” and not without rea­son: her films have received international acclaim for decades. Tinged by the influ­ence of Ingmar bergman and the French new Wave, her work is forcefully dramat­ic, deeply psychological and distinctly humanistic. 
last week at notre dame, von Trotta lectured, fielded a slew of questions and introduced her latest film “die abhan­dene Welt” (“The misplaced World”) as the focal point of the nanovic Institute’s annual nanovic Forum. her lecture “my Approach to biography” detailed her ef­forts in cinematically chronicling the lives of a host of historical figures — most notably “hannah Arendt” (2012), “rosa luxemburg” (1986), and hildegard von bingen (“Vision,” 2009), all of which fea­ture her favorite actress and longtime word, political messages and thematic statements that one could dissect for hours on end. 
The storyline of the album follows the stages in which beyoncé learned about and eventually came to terms with her husband’s infidelity, all the while mesh­ing beautiful imagery of what it means to be a black woman in America today. It’s here that women and men outside this group, the group for which beyoncé made “lemonade,” must understand that we are removed from the experience. outsiders can appreciate the art and enjoy it but ultimately they must comprehend this is a love letter to black femininity and that it was made for black women to real­ize or reinforce their value and worth. 
As beyoncé moves through the emo­tions outlined in “lemonade” (intuition, anger, apathy, emptiness, accountability, reformation, forgiveness, resurrection, hope and redemption) she takes a jour­ney that parallels the struggle of the mod­ern black woman from pain to ultimate 
collaborator barbara sukowa. 
I had the delightful opportunity to catch up with von Trotta last week and speak with her about her career as a filmmaker. 
Sam Fentress: You spoke in the mas­ter class yesterday about having to com­pletely devote yourself to subject in order to make a film — it’s years of planning and shooting and editing. Which sub­jects have you kept with you through the years? 
margarethe von Trotta: In a way, all my films stay with me. It’s like you have a de­pot inside of you where you put them, a sort of archive — but it’s a vivid archive. They are living with you. When I’m doing a film with barbara sukowa and I look at her, in the moment she’s acting I see all the other figures she did before. They are always there. And she has the same feel­ing. she’s said, sometimes, that I have only to look at her and she at me, and we know exactly what we want. It’s a whole back­ground she’s giving me with her presence. 
SF: Especially in the Barbara Sukowa films, there’s a recurring theme of teach­ing, especially women mentoring other women. There’s a fantastic moment in “Rosa Luxemburg” where, as a very young girl, she’s teaching her nanny how to read. 
mVT: Yes, she [luxemburg] was very ill, and therefore she limped. she had to stay in bed for a year, so she started to read and healing and liberation. Featuring samples of a malcolm X speech in which he de­clared “the most disrespected person in America is the black woman,” cameos from many influential black females that have come under attack within the last few years such as serena Williams and Zendaya, as well as the mothers of young black men that have been killed due to po­lice brutality in modern history, the film unfailingly establishes this theme of the need for black female empowerment. 
made by black women for black women, “lemonade” incorporates the beautiful prose of womanist poet, Warsan shire, the ritual body art of the Yoruba people by laolu senbanjo and michaela dePrince’s renowned talent as a black ballerina. not far removed is the motif of black south­ern culture, the generational tale of black people in America, specifically for blacks in the south. 
It is hard to remove the music from the images themselves, but the album alone similarly delves into unknown 
started to write very early, and had this passion to give her knowledge away to oth­ers. For me that was the starting point of her being this utopist, of giving her ideas to the world and to the workers and to the [democratic socialist] party members. It was a very early passion. 
SF: Moving back to themes: People have called you a feminist filmmaker for years, a title you seem a bit hesitant to ac­cept. To me, what’s so wonderful about your films is that female characters never seem forced or gratuitous; they exist very organically, but still purposefully, in your movies. 
mVT: I’m a woman, and I know much more about women. my father was not married to my mother, so I lived with my mother and he came only once a year. In this time, there were no schools mixed with boys, so we were at an all-women’s school, so I had not too much experience with men in my childhood. When I started to make films, I wanted to tell something about me and about us and about my ex­perience and my knowledge. I think men are mainly making films about men, so when I have the chance to make a film and in the time I started there were not so many female directors. I felt also a little bit like a duty to speak about women, like I was a voice for other women who didn’t have this possibility to speak. I have noth­ing against feminism, and surely I’m a territory for beyoncé. “lemonade” de­buts bey’s first country-influenced track with “daddy lessons” and unlikely col­laborations with the likes of Jack White on “don’t hurt Yourself.” Further combining hip-hop, r&b, soul, dance and reggae, beyoncé’s sixth studio album continues to prove that the world’s greatest enter­tainer isn’t done growing as an artist. 

closing the film on a hopeful note, beyoncé explains the meaning behind the project’s name, offering a recipe for lemonade intermixed with clips from the birthday party for hattie White, Jay Z’s grandmother, during which White can be heard saying “I was served lemons, but I made lemonade.” It’s an illustration of overcoming adversity for the black wom­an; beyoncé choosing to stay with her husband and regrow their love harkens to the universal strength black women display on a daily basis. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at                alowery1@nd.edu 
feminist, but the word is used now, mainly by men, in an ironic way. They say, ‘oh, that’s just a women’s film. You don’t have to go in, it’s not interesting for you as a man.’ I’m very much against this. 
SF: There’s a great quote from an interview you did a few years ago in “Filmmaker”: “I am always attracted by a woman who has to fight for her own life and her own reality, who has to get out of a certain situation of imprisonment, to free [herself].” That idea of an imposed reality, it seems to come up a lot in your films. 
mVT: It’s two points. on one hand, I’m interested in persons — not only in wom­en, but in my films, sure, it’s mainly wom­en. You’re born in a certain time, or you’re born in a time, like me, of fascism and regulations and dictatorship and you have not so many chances to be on your own and to decide for yourself because society or the rulers are deciding for you. how you can manage, in this situation, to become a real person for your own — that is my one point. I am always interested in that. 
on the other hand, for women who were not asked to be important persons but more or less servants for a long time: what are the methods to come out of this prison of society? 
Contact Sam Fentress at                           sfentres@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


CROSSWORD | WIll shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddY & erIc cArlson SUDOKU | The mePhAm GrouP 


FLING BY SPRING | rIleY mccurrIe 


FOR RENT 

3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800 + utilities. Washer/dryer, kitchen appliances included. Contact philipms@sbcglobal.net 
HOROSCOPE | euGenIA lAsT 
Happy Birthday: don’t sit back waiting to see what everyone else does. be a leader and step up your game. share your knowledge and speak your mind. You can make a difference if you are bold and willing to follow any suggestions you make with actions. When it comes to love, make your intentions clear and your affection felt. Your numbers are 5, 13, 20, 23, 36, 38, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make changes to personal documents. renew your passport or get your taxes in order. Put aside funds or start budgeting for something you want to purchase that will result in comfort or convenience. make a personal commitment. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): expand your interests and friendships. be open to new ideas and consider making personal changes that will make you feel good about yourself. Approach old projects with insight and renewed vision. explore possibilities and do what works best for you. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a close look at your relationships and separate the good from the bad. If someone is taking advantage of you, put an end to it. You will only have yourself to blame if you don’t protect your rights, your cash and your reputation. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t deviate from your original plans. having a clear picture of what you want to see happen will help you move forward without a hitch. An unusual domestic change could create confusion. don’t let others interrupt your plans. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You’ll never get everyone’s approval. do what works for you and don’t worry about pleasing everyone. romance is on the rise, and making positive changes in your personal life will lead to peace of mind and happiness. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look for an outside opinion if you sense confusion and uncertainty at home or with a loved one. You’ll be surprised by the advice offered and should consider the suggestions that are made before it’s too late. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Put more thought into personal finance issues, property investments and ways to ease your stress. A discussion with someone close to you will help you make the right choice. romance will bring you closer to the one you love. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You’ll want to do it all. don’t lose sight of your goals or take on more than you can handle. It’s important to keep communication open and honest with someone you are paired with personally or professionally. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): doing your own research will make a difference. don’t rely on anyone else to gather facts for you. An entertaining attitude will get others to open up and reveal the information you need to obtain. romance will lift your spirits. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An unusual opportunity will surface that can lead to a change of residence or a chance to upgrade your standard of living. don’t let children, relatives or your partner stymie your plans. explain the advantages and put your plans in motion. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): embrace change, and you can make your dreams come true as long as you use your ingenuity to stay within your budget. A positive change to your personal appearance will lead to romance and compliments from someone special. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You’ll be backed into a corner if you are too aggressive or impractical in the way you approach situations, projects and the people you have to deal with. be willing to listen and accept some of the changes required to reach your goals. 


Birthday Baby: You are engaging, proactive and adventuresome. You are progressive and autonomous. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hoYT And JeFF KnureK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1 BR fully furnished includes large sunroom and laundry on 3 acres walking distance to ND. Heat and water included. Month-to-month lease. $650 + $50 electric. Call 574-271-7205 
No one blinks an eye / And I look up to the sky for the path of a lighting bolt 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer P.o. box 779 notre dame, In 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
Address 

city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Dancing blends art and sport 

Catherine Owers 
senior sports Writer 
“did you play a sport in high school?” 
This question, along with queries about the number of siblings and career ambitions, comprises the usual second-tier “get to know you” ques­tions here at notre dame. It requires more details than the basic name, dorm and major stats, but it’s less intimate than the “fears, hopes and dreams” talk. 
but this question has never been one that I can answer easily. 
depending on your perspec­tive, in high school I might have been a varsity athlete who trained several hours a day. I spent four football sea­sons practicing at least three days a week, balancing aca­demic commitments and de­bating the merits of artificial turf versus grass fields. 
depending on your perspec­tive, in high school I might have been an artist who spent hours perfecting my craft. I spent four years rehearsing at least three days a week, balancing academic com­mitments and debating the merits of matte lipstick versus lipgloss. 
see, the problem is that in high school, I was a proud member of the chapellette dance Team. For four years, I performed in field shows at football games, competed in national dance team competi­tions and marched in many miles of mardi Gras parades. And in our current culture, sports and art are viewed as binary opposites. I’d like to propose, though, that sports and arts are not in opposi­tion, but on a continuum, and dance falls somewhere in the middle. 
success in tap, ballet or jazz requires physical stamina, sustained commitment, a smattering of luck and more than a little assistance from genetics — no different from success in football, basketball or lacrosse. A quarterback who throws a touchdown pass spiraling to a receiver in the corner of the end zone dem­onstrates the same timing and precision required from a ballerina about to perform a series of fouettes. 
To draw on the criteria de­veloped earlier this semester by my esteemed colleagues marek mazurek and Zach Klonsinski, in their debate over esports counting as real sports, dance performs quite satisfactorily. 
Klonsinksi argues that the crux of the debate hinges on “establishing how much physi­cal ‘effort’ or ‘exertion’ should be required for something to be considered a sport.” I think the aching hamstrings after a day rehearsing a kick dance, as well as my strained Pcl (which still aches when the weather changes) corrobo­rates the physical demands of dancing. The elevated heart rate after hours of dance re­hearsal is no different from the elevated heart rate after hours of tennis practice. 
mazurek counters that esports are sports simply because esPn picked them up, saying “[a]nd right now the money is flowing into esports both in America and around the world.” Well, esPn has aired the udA national dance Team championship for the last several years. Furthermore, television shows featuring dance, such as Fox’s so You Think You can dance?, have been financially success­ful endeavors for major net­works. To put it crassly, dance can be commodified and com­mercialized just as much as football or basketball. 
I acknowledge that dance has many more subjective elements than what are tra­ditionally considered to be sports, but so do gymnastics and figure skating — both of which are recognized as sports by the olympics. I’m not saying that ballet or jazz are the same as football and basketball, but these activities are more similar than differ­ent. dance doesn’t threaten sports; sports don’t threaten dance. You can wear a varsity letter and ballet slippers at the same time. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ROWING | dAle enGlAnd cuP 

Irish win final tune up before Acc championships 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports Writer 
notre dame picked up a win in its last regatta be­fore the Acc championships over the weekend, taking home the dale england cup trophy. 
competing against a field that included no. 14 Indiana, the no. 17 Irish found them­selves behind after the first day of racing. They needed a strong finish to compete for the title, and they found that finish by winning four of the final seven races saturday afternoon. one of those races was the first varsity 8 boat, which notre dame took by just .85 seconds. 
“In the saturday after­noon session, what we did was switch up the first var­sity 4 [boat] lineup after the second varsity 4 boat was putting up better times in the morning, so we were hoping to find some speed there, and Indiana made the same change, so we’re glad that paid off,” Irish head coach martin stone said. “For the second varsity 4 in the afternoon, we went with the lineup that raced well in california, hoping they could continue that. The varsity 8 [boat] was more about changing some strategy and seeing how we wanted to handle the situa­tion, and fortunately we did a much better job, especially when Indiana made a strong charge late.” 

notre dame narrowly came away with the trophy, winning on the second tie­breaker, which was the first varsity 8 boat race, to take first place. notre dame had tied with both duke and Indiana at 108 points each. navy came in fourth place with 39 points. 
“I think this one was very big for us,” stone said. “our philosophy is to race tough teams, and this was no ex­ception. We were facing tough competition, and I’m glad we could get through these teams, especially with the changes we made that had us competing well. our confidence is better after that performance, and we definitely learned a lot from this weekend.” 
up next for the Irish will be a few weeks of train­ing before heading off to clemson, south carolina, for the Acc championships, which begin may 13. With final exams coming up next week, the upcoming train­ing takes some careful plan­ning, according to stone. 
“We’ll keep up our typi­cal training for the next few days until finals,” stone said. “during finals, how­ever, we’ll just go with some light training to keep the team in touch with the boat and oar. After that, we will have about five or six days of solid training before we head out for Accs. 
“The improvement over the course of the season has us feeling positive, but it’s been positive all along. It’s normal for our team to get better as the season goes on, and we’ve done a good job of focusing on the process. our effort’s paying off, and it’s not easy coming off difficult races the past couple week­ends, much like Indiana, so to come back and see the strong performances we put up is pretty special.” 
Contact Alex Bender at abender@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS | smc 9, AlbIon 0 

Belles dominate Britons en route to MIAA victory 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s swept Albion, 9-0, on saturday to give a senior day performance to remember. 
belles head coach dale campbell said the team’s two seniors, margaret Faller and Andrea Fetters, have made a large influence on the program during over the last four sea­sons. They are the team cap­tains for the belles (13-5, 4-2 mIAA) as well. 
“They have been a posi­tive and consistent influence on our team,” campbell said. “They have been team players throughout their careers. They go about their business the same way every match. They both had a great day saturday and are both deserving.” 
Faller and sophomore maddie minaudo succeeded in the first match of the day with an 8-0 win at no. 2 doubles. Fetters and junior Kaity Venters then pulled ahead from what was a 4-3 match at no. 3 dou­bles with an 8-3 win. Freshman monica davy and junior sam setterblad then won 8-6 at no. 1 doubles to sweep the doubles portion of the match. campbell said all the doubles teams de­livered great performances against Albion (9-6, 2-4). 

“All of the doubles teams played great down the stretch to win their matches and a great comeback at no. 1 by davy and setterblad,” campbell said. 
The closest competition of the day came in singles play when Albion sophomore olivia conover split 7-5 sets with setterblad, but setterblad came away with a 10-2 tiebreaker for the victory. 
“I think we go into those [close matches] very com­posed,” campbell said. “We have had an incredible record in close matches this year. sam believes she will win the close ones, and I think she drew upon her past successes.” 
The belles secured the team victory with the first two matches of the singles portion, won by minaudo and freshman elizabeth Preister. The rest of the team followed with their individual successes, as Fetters, davy and Faller all won their matches in straight sets to bring the score to 9-0. 
saint mary’s will go up against Kalamazoo (8-9, 5-0) on Tuesday in hopes of ending the hornets’ three-game streak and handing them their first conference loss. campbell said that the opportunity to enter the quickly approaching mIAA tournament in a higher seed because of a victory increases his team’s need to come out fighting. 
“I don’t think we feel the pres­sure, only that we have an op­portunity to go in with a higher seed,” campbell said. “We will just approach this as an oppor­tunity to beat Kalamazoo, so we just have to come out ready to fight. I think it simply can help your seed position and just confidence in beating a high-level opponent. 
“I think our team handles each match as it comes. We talk a lot about playing our best ev­ery day and controlling what we can control.” 
saint mary’s will take on Kalamazoo on Tuesday at 4 
p.m. at saint mary’s tennis courts in its final home match of the season. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at vllorens@nd.edu 


SMC SOFTBALL | smc 10, AlbIon 1; smc 11, AlbIon 2 
Belles hold on to fourth place 
By R.J. STEMPAK 
sports Writer 
saint mary’s won two and lost two in its four games over the weekend, sweeping Albion and dropping both games against hope. 
The belles (17-14, 7-5 mIAA) dominated the brits (6-27, 0-16) on Friday, outscoring Albion, 21-3, in the two games of the doubleheader. starting off game one slowly, the belles were tied after three innings, 1-1. soon enough, however, the belles’ offense erupted, scoring seven runs on nine hits in the top of the fourth. sophomore center fielder cassie Young had two singles and two rbIs in the frame. 
Albion was unable to score for the rest of the game while saint mary’s added to its lead in the seventh inning with an rbI double from sophomore designated player and pitcher morgan raymer, while junior first baseman caitlyn migawa came around to score when the Albion pitcher balked. The first game ended 10-1 with raymer earning the win with just two hits and a run allowed in five innings of work. 
saint mary’s hot offense continued into the second game, opening up a 2-0 lead in the bottom of the first behind a sacrifice fly off the bat of Young and an rbI double from senior third baseman Kayla chapman. Albion answered with two runs of their own in the top of the third to tie the game. 
The belles topped their first game’s seven-run inning with an eight-run outburst in the bottom of the third. The in­ning was highlighted by two-run home runs from both chapman and senior catcher Jillian busfield as saint mary’s took the commanding 10-2 lead. 
The game was stopped by the nine-run rule as the belles were up 11-2 at the conclusion of the top of the fifth. senior sarah burke earned the win with three strikeouts in four complete innings pitched. 
belles head coach Kelli Zache attributed the belles’ success to an adjustment with hitting. 
“We made some adjust­ments early on,” Zache said. “We started off the first couple innings in game one a little slow, then we made some ad­justments that carried into game two. They had a little bit slower pitching than what we were used to, and we were ini­tially swinging for the fences. so we shortened up a bit, and the thought was that ground balls and line drives would get through.” 
The next day saint mary’s took on hope, who currently sits at third in the confer­ence, in another doublehead­er. neither the belles nor the Flying dutch (20-14, 9-3) could get on the scoreboard after two innings in the first game. hope broke the scoreless tie with an rbI single to right field in the bottom of the third though. The belles respond­ed in the top of the fifth in­ning with a lead-off home run from sophomore right fielder makenzie duncan. 
The two teams combined for a total of three hits through­out the remainder of regu­lation until a walk-off rbI single from Flying dutch se­nior shortstop Jenna maury clinched the game in the bottom of the eighth inning. raymer took the loss on the mound with two earned runs on seven hits with six strike­outs while pitching the entire game for the belles. 
“In the first game we came out ready to play,” Zache said. “neither of us could hit but we went eight innings with them. Then in the second game we would hit, but it was right to the defense. We couldn’t get anything to fall in and we couldn’t get the momentum in our corner.” 
The second game of the day was not as tightly contested as the first as hope jumped out to an early lead, plating three runs over the first two innings. The belles received lead-off hits from duncan and Young in the third and fourth innings but were unable to capitalize. 
In the fifth inning, hope brought in another three runs, extending the lead to 6-0. The belles were unable to score any runs in the game while hope tacked on one more, ending the game with a final score 7-0. 
looking ahead, the belles have two games out of con­ference against defiance on Tuesday and then an mIAA doubleheader with Kalamazoo on Wednesday. The hornets (10-19, 6-6) are currently one game behind saint mary’s in the conference standings. 
“We really need to take two with Kalamazoo,” Zache said. “This will ensure us getting into the tournament. It’s go­ing to be a quick turnaround, playing four games in two days, so we need to play smart ball and play our game.” 
currently in fourth place in the mIAA, the belles will need to at least hold their position in the standings in order to make the postseason tourna­ment, which will take place may 5-7. 
Contact R.J. Stempak at rstempak@nd.edu 



PAId AdVerTIsemenT 




TRACK & FIELD | VIrGInIA chAllenGe 
Harris breaks 800-meter record in Virginia 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports Writer  
The Irish built on their suc­cess from last weekend’s meet in louisville as the team post­ed a number of top-10 finish­es at the Virginia challenge in charlottesville, Virginia, against a field of 63 different schools, as well as professional and club athletes. 
“It’s a really good meet,” freshman jumper matt birzer said. “We wanted to go in and compete our hardest. With most athletes only competing once more before conferences, this was an important meet to bring things together. … There were a lot of schools compet­ing there. We will see many of those schools again at confer­ences and regionals.” 
The team began the competition with two wins on Friday night as sopho­more Jessica harris and senior margaret bamgbose finished first in the 800-meter run and 400-meter dash, respectively. In the 800, harris stormed to a 2:05.26 finish, which was not only her personal best but also broke the school record. bamgbose ran a 52.50 in the 400 to win yet another race this season. The women also had top performances in the 10,000-meter run, where ju­nior lexi Pelletier took second (34:02.08), and the 4x100-me­ter relay, which came in third with a time of 44.58. For the men, junior Anthony shivers came in third in the discus throw (53.79 meters) and also 16th in the hammer throw 
(55.87 meters). In the 400-me­ter dash, junior Alex Groesch and sophomore drake stimson respectively, good for 20th and finished neck-and-neck with 24th overall. times of 48.45 and 48.75, The Irish continued their 


PAId AdVerTIsemenT 


successes on saturday, high­lighted by another victory and several personal bests. Junior Josephine Jackson continued her excellent season with a victory in the shot put, throw­ing 15.02 meters for a new per­sonal best. The women also performed well in the 4x400­meter relay, coming in second (3:34.71), and the 400-meter hurdles, in which grad student Kaila barber finished seventh 
(59.19) and sophomore Jordan shead came in ninth (59.78). Additionally, freshmen rachel dadamio and Kelly hart set personal records in the 1500-meter run (4:23.84), and 800-meter run (2:11.81), re­spectively. For the men, birzer 
(2.11 meter) and sophomore hunter holton (2.06 meter) fin­ished back-to-back in the high jump at sixth and seventh, while senior brent swanberg came in 11th with a jump of 
1.96 meters. 
“It was overall a good day,” birzer said. “Things were not quite clicking for me. I had a lot of misses and my makes were not pretty. however, they were makes and on my third attempt at 2.11 I cleared. It’s hard to be too upset with a season best. I am excited about what I will be able to do on a day when I’m at 100 percent.” 
other top performances included sophomore Tim ball’s time of 29:51.89 in the 10,000-meter run, which was good enough for ninth, and personal bests from stimson 
(53.52) in the 400-meter hur­dles and swanberg (15.14) in the 110-meter hurdles. 
“There were a lot of posi­tives,” birzer said. “I think we are feeling good. … We will have a lot of great performanc­es at the conference meet. And we will take a decent number of [guys] to the regional meet. once you’re at the regional meet, anything is possible.” 
next up for the Irish are the drake relays this weekend in des moines, Iowa. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 



Baseball 
conTInued From PAGe 16 
In the game between these teams last April, the Irish entered the bottom of the ninth with a 5-3 lead over the hoosiers, but a pair of notre dame defensive miscues led to three runs and a 6-5 hoosier walk-off victory. 
“I think with all of that last year, I thought about the last three outs of the game where we kind of sealed our own fate with our inability to just convert some balls into outs,” Aoki said. “everything about it [last year] was really posi­tive, so I know we’re looking forward to being down there, playing against those guys. hopefully we can turn that score around from last year.” 
If their midweek star pitcher, senior right-hand­er michael hearne, takes the bump for the Irish on Tuesday, they should have a good chance at taking one from their in-state rivals. 
notre dame has won all eight games started by hearne so far this year, and he has a 5-0 record and a 2.25 erA in 52 innings pitched. In his last two outings, hearne has tossed two complete-game victories, combining for just one earned run on 11 hits with seven strikeouts and no walks in 18 innings of work. 
The hoosiers will coun­ter with a balanced pitching staff that boasts a 2.83 com­bined erA, good enough for the 11th spot in all of college baseball. The team is led by senior left-handed starters caleb baragar and Kyle hart, who hold erAs of 1.95 and 2.57, respectively, as well as a 0.82 erA from freshman re­liever Pauly milto. 
Tuesday night’s game is the first in a five-game break from Acc play for the Irish. After Indiana, notre dame returns home for Wednesday night’s contest against eastern michigan before ohio comes to south bend for a three-game set over the weekend. 
notre dame is coming off a three-game sweep at the hands of Florida state over the weekend after having won seven in a row and 15 of its previous 17 games. The team will be looking to get back to its winning ways Tuesday when it faces Indiana. 
Indiana, on the other hand, just completed a 2-1 series victory at michigan state this weekend and has won 11 of its last 13 games dating back to the start of April. 
First pitch between the Irish and the hoosiers is slat­ed for 7 p.m. at Victory Field, home to the Indianapolis Indians of the International league. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
M Tennis 
conTInued From PAGe 16 

defeated by no. 14 sopho­more skander mansouri, 6-2, 7-5, on court no. 1. covalschi won his match 6-3, 7-6(4) on court no. 3 to bring the Irish within one again at 3-2. sabacinski pulled through a tie-break­er, 7-6(3), 1-6, 7-6(5) to bring the score to 3-3, but lawson lost his tiebreaker, 6-7(5), 6-4, 7-6(5), giving Wake Forest the 4-3 win. 
“The matches against duke and Wake Forest were once again really strong performances from our guys,” Irish head coach ryan sachire. “For the past month, our players have been competing at an ex­tremely high level and put­ting themselves in position to beat everyone that we’ve played.” 
now, the Irish will be training to compete in the ncAA tournament in three weeks. 
“The Acc is such a strong tennis conference,” sachire said. “And the standard of play has been extremely high in every match that we’ve played for the past month. I feel strongly that we are peaking at the right time and capable of making a run three weeks from now in the ncAA tournament.” 
As the season comes to a close, sachire said he is both excited for the upcoming ncAA tournament and sad his time with this particular team is coming to an end. 
“I am so proud of the group of juniors and se­niors on our team who have dealt with injuries and other forms of adversity through­out the year but have stayed locked in and focused on getting better each day and giving everything they have physically, mentally and emotionally every match,” sachire said. “They continue to elevate our program to the highest national level, and I am certainly going to miss coaching this group once our season is over. until then, we are going to work as hard as we can to prepare for our next opponent and our next opportunity.” 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 



PAId AdVerTIsemenT 



M Golf 
conTInued From PAGe 16 
Two of notre dame’s golf­ers finished in the top-25 individually. Junior matt rushton finished tied for 16th place, shooting an even-par 216 on the weekend. 
“matt played so consis­tently all spring,” Kubinski said. “he posted just one round over 74 the entire se­mester, which is a feat con­sidering we played a few very difficult golf courses. he brought that consisten­cy this week, too. he’d say he didn’t have everything working each round but was still able to post a solid finish. That’s a sign of devel­opment as a player.” 

Kubinski also said the play of freshman ben Albin, who finished tied for 25th with a 2-over-par 218, was admirable. 
“ben played remarkably well as a frosh this year,” Kubinski said. “he posted six or seven top-20 finishes on the season and had him­self in position for another today. I think he played a little too much leaderboard today, meaning he may have wanted a top finish a little too much out there. he’ll learn from that, which is exciting as he will keep putting himself in winning positions.” 
At the end of the day, it was the strength his team dis­played in the face of adversi­ty that impressed Kubinski. he said three of his golfers in particular were confident despite some tough rounds. 
“I think we showed that we can bounce back from a tough round,” Kubinski said. “[Junior] blake [barens], [freshman] miguel [delgado] and [junior] liam [cox] all did that individu­ally, and our team rounds showed that as well. It’s not easy to do so I’m pleased with the resilience they showed.” 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu 


PAId AdVerTIsemenT 


W Tennis 
conTInued From PAGe 16 
doubles team of senior Julie Vrabel and junior mary closs emerged victorious 6-1 on court no. 2 and on court no. 3, broda/miller also won 6-1 to clinch the doubles point for the Irish. 
The next day in singles against clemson (10-10, 8-6), broda won her first set 7-5 be­fore falling in the second set 6-3. In the third and deciding set, broda shut down her op­ponent 6-0 on court no. 5 to win the match. closs was also involved in a close match on court no. 4. she won the first set 6-4 before dropping the second set 6-4. closs was the victor in the deciding third set 6-2. on court no. 1, Gleason won the first set 6-2 before dropping a 6-2 decision in the second. Gleason responded by winning the third set 6-1 to clinch the match for notre dame. 
In the doubles competition, closs/Vrabel won 6-4 on court no. 2, followed by a 6-3 vic­tory by broda/miller on court no. 3. Gleason and junior monica robinson dropped a 6-1 decision on court no. 1. 
“The win over clemson was a big one for us to get an invite to the ncAA tourna­ment,” Irish head coach Jay louderback said. “We lost to clemson a couple weeks ago so we knew it would be a tough match, but our team played maybe our best match of the year with a lot on the line.” 
In the singles competition against Georgia Tech (17-8, 11-3), closs lost a close first set 7-6(1) before dropping the second set 6-1 on court no. 4 while Fennelly lost in straight sets 6-1, 6-3 on court no. 6. miller also fell in straight sets 6-1, 6-4 on court no. 3. broda lost her first set 6-2 before re­sponding with a 6-2 victory in the second set. broda was winning the deciding third set 2-1 before the match was discontinued on court no. 

5. on court no. 1, Gleason emerged as the victor in her first set 6-1 and was tied 6-6 in the second set when her match left unfinished. on court no. 2, robinson lost a close first set 7-6(4) and was tied in the second set 2-2 be­fore that match was discon­tinued as well. 
In the doubles competi­tion, the teams of Gleason/ robinson and Vrabel/closs both lost 6-4 decisions on courts no. 1 and 2, respec­tively. broda/miller were winning 5-4 in their match on court no. 3 when the match was discontinued. 
louderback said he was impressed at how well his doubles team improved over the course of the season and helped lead his team to this point. 
“I feel our doubles teams have improved as the season has progressed which is key in the post season,” louderback said. 
up next for the Irish would be a trip to the ncAA cham­pionships, which start with regionals on may 13 and will conclude in Tulsa, oklahoma, on may 30. 
notre dame will learn its tournament fate when the field is announced on may 3. 
Contact Michael Ivey at         mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Irish sophomore Brooke Broda returns the ball during Notre Dame’s 6-1 win over Indiana at Eck Tennis Pavilion on Feb. 20. 

BASEBALL 

Notre Dame prepares for rivalry with Indiana 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports Writer 
notre dame will renew one of its oldest rivalries Tuesday night when it squares off with Indiana at Victory Field in Indianapolis. 
The Irish (23-15, 9-10 Acc) and the hoosiers (23-15, 8-4 big Ten) are set to meet at the neutral site for the second consecutive year after hav­ing not played since 1998. 
“last year it was a great experience,” Irish head coach mik Aoki said. “We had almost 9,000 people at the game last year. It’s a phenomenal venue, beauti­ful setting to play a baseball game.” 
A year ago, notre dame and Indiana renewed the dormant series that first be­gan in 1898. This year’s edi­tion will be the 101st game in the series all time, which notre dame leads 67-32-1. 
see bAsebAll PAGE 14 

By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports Writer 
notre dame culminated its spring season with the Acc championship over the weekend at the old north state country club in new london, north carolina, finishing 10th out of the 12 teams in attendance, beat­ing out Virginia Tech and ri­val boston college. 
Irish head coach Jim Kubinski said weather, tough competition and mis­takes kept the team from finishing closer to the top of the leaderboard. 
“There’s no doubt the Acc championship is one of the strongest fields in college golf,” Kubinski said. “We had six of the top 25 teams in America competing, nine of the top 50. We thought we could be in the mix though, by putting up the scores we posted last weekend [at the battle at the Warren]. We had an unlucky draw on Friday, 

MEN’S GOLF | Acc TournAmenT 
Irish finish 10th place in Acc 
playing most of our round in the pouring rain. That set us back. I thought we put that behind us though and played pretty well most of the final 36. It wasn’t our best game though, which is what’s required to be in the mix in that field.” 
now that the season is over, the team will no lon­ger be practicing together. Instead, they will work in­dividually to improve for next season. According to Kubinski, the players will take on tough competition this summer. 
“our guys head home for the summer and play high­ly competitive schedules,” Kubinski said. “It’s what they need right now too, more competition. That’s when players develop. I’m excited about this time for our guys, especially with everyone who started for us returning next season.” 
see m GolF PAGE 15 
MEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, duKe 1; WAKe ForesT 4, nd 3 
Irish fall to demon deacons 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports Writer 
The Irish made it to the quarterfinals in the Acc tournament, beating duke on Thursday before fall­ing to no. 7 Wake Forest on Friday. 
notre dame (15-13, 6-6) came into the tournament as the seventh seed, topping 10-seed duke (11-15, 4-8) to extend its win streak to five and earn a spot in the quarterfinals. 
The doubles point was quickly claimed by notre dame with wins from dou­bles teams of freshman Grayson broadus and se­nior nicolas montoya on court no. 3 and seniors Alex lawson and Quentin monaghan on court no. 1. 
Junior Josh hagar won the first singles match 6-1, 6-0, giving the Irish a 2-0 lead, but it was quickly an­swered by duke with senior Josh levine’s 6-2, 6-1 win over Irish senior Kenneth sabacinski, narrowing the gap to 2-1. Junior eddy covalschi widened notre dame’s lead again with his 7-6, 6-3 victory on court no. 3. 
broadus eventually clinched his victory in three sets, 6-1, 6-7(6), 6-1, making the score 4-1 and ending the match. 
The victory allowed the seventh-seeded Irish to move on to face the second-seeded demon deacons, who had won 13 of their last 14 matches, on Friday. 
notre dame’s match against Wake Forest started with the demon deacons securing the double point, with wins by the team of se­nior romain bogaerts and freshman dennis uspensky over broadus/montoya, 6-3, and freshman Petros crysochos and senior Jon ho over covalschi/hagar, 6-4. 
Wake Forest took the first singles match of the after­noon, with uspensky defeat­ing broadus 6-2, 6-1 on court no. 6, but hagar followed with a 6-1, 7-5 win on court no. 2 to bring the score to 2-1. no. 12 monaghan was 
see m TennIs PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, PITT 0; nd 4, clemson 1; GeorGIA Tech 4, nd 0 
ND ousted by Georgia Tech at final tournament 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports Writer 
notre dame partici­pated in the Acc tour­nament last week at the cary Tennis center in cary, north carolina. The Irish (14-13, 5-9) beat Pittsburgh, 4-0, in the first round Wednesday and then got past clemson, 4-1, in the second round Thursday before falling to Georgia Tech, 4-0, in the quarterfinals Friday. 
In Wednesday’s sin­gles competition against Pittsburgh (7-14, 1-13), sophomore brooke broda won her match in straight sets 6-1, 6-4 on court no. 
5. on court no. 1, senior Quinn Gleason emerged victorious from her match by a 6-2, 6-1 score. sophomore Allison miller also won her match in straight sets 6-2, 6-2 on court no. 3. 
The Irish dominated the doubles competition against the Panthers. The 
see W TennIs PAGE 15 






