tHe inDepenDent to UncoVer newspaper serVinG tHe trUtH notre Dame anD anD report saint mary’s it accUrately 

VolUme 50, issUe 126 | TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 2016 | nDsmcoBserVer.com 
‘The same opportunity to be successful’ 
Sara Bea Center for Students with Disabilities aids ND 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
senior news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond day in a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories examine the ser­vices available to students at the University and the College. 
any student can register with Disability services to request ac­commodations, according to coor­dinator scott Howland. 
“it starts by providing documen­tation for the disability, so that can vary from pretty extensive evalu­ations that have been done for a learning disability or aDHD, or it 
see resoUrces PAGE 3 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


Disability Resource Office supports SMC students 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
senior news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the sec­ond day in a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories examine the ser­vices available to students at the University and the College. 
saint mary’s created the Disabilities resource office (Dro) in 2004 to provide stu­dents with access to accom­modations granted under the americans with Disabilities act, director iris Giamo said. prior to the creation of the office, asso­ciate dean susan Vanek worked 
see Dro PAGE 5 




Students hold prayer service for immigrants 

By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
members of the notre Dame community gathered at the Grotto and prayed for justice for the un­documented immigrants who would be affected by the outcomes of the United states v. texas, a land­mark court case the supreme court heard monday. the event was or­ganized by the student coalition for immigration advocacy. 
according to an article by Voice of america, the United states v. texas case will analyze the legal­ity of president obama’s executive decision to establish Deferred action for parents of americans (Dapa). this program allows un­documented parents to defer de­portation, assuming they have no criminal record, have been in the 

U.s. since 2010 and have a child who is a citizen or legal permanent resident. 
Fr. Joe corpora, csc, director of the catholic school advantage campaign, led the opening prayer for the event and said the main rea­son for the gathering at the Grotto was to pray for just results for the 
see serVice PAGE 5 

Dismissed smc employee reportedly seen on campus 
Observer Staff Report 
David summerfield, a former saint mary’s employee, may have been spotted on cam­pus thursday during the 31st madeleva lecture. members of the “Belles for Justice” Facebook group posted saying they had seen him in the audience at the lecture and subsequently re­ported the sighting to security. 
summerfield, who was a maintenance worker, was ar­rested in 2014 for voyeurism after admitting to drilling holes in the showers of le mans Hall and observing students. He was sentenced to 30 days in prison after pleading guilty to misdemeanor voyeurism and criminal mischief. He was also sentenced to 30 days probation following his prison sentence. His employment was termi­nated after his arrest and he has been banned from campus. 
David Gariepy, director of security, said in an email he is not positive that it was summerfield because security was never called to identify and confront the individual. a sec­ond sighting was reported, but the individual in question was not summerfield. 
according to Gariepy, a “no trespass” reminder letter was sent to summerfield after the first report. staff members have been reminded to contact se­curity if incidents of this nature occur again so security can re­move the individual or involve law enforcement. 



Saint Mary’s club to host run in support of autism 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
the saint mary’s students supporting autism club will host the second annual autism awareness 5K run and walk on saturday april 23 at 8 a.m. students can register through orgsync or at check-in the day of. the event will begin at the welcome center and ends at lake marian. 
senior allyson strasen, presi­dent of students supporting autism, said the club raises money throughout each school year and donates all funds to three orga­nizations — lighthouse autism center, the Behavior analysis center for autism (Baca) and Hannah and Friends. 
“we wanted to continue that this year because we were so suc­cessful last year,” strasen said.“last year we raised upwards of $700. we ended up having $1,200 total to donate at the end of the year.” 
strasen said these organizations 
see rUn PAGE 3 

Viewpoint PAGE 6 Viewpoint PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 women’s lacrosse PAGE 16 BaseBall PAGE 16 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre Dame, in 46556 024 south Dining Hall, notre Dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret Hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen                     cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie Galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of notre 
Dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 
post office information the observer (Usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south Dining Hall notre Dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre Dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. Box 779 024 south Dining hall notre Dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


What do you think of the new tree on Bond Quad? 

Pat Kilian 
junior sorin college 
“i think it’s an overstep by a tyrannical school regime.” 


Andrew McCarthy 
junior sorin college 

“it violates a sorin college constitution put forth in 1969. i think.” 



Anthony Parada 
sophomore 
sorin college 

“i hate it. not that there is a new tree, just it’s a horrible location.” 

Dominick Battaglia 
freshman 
sorin college 

“i think it takes up precious space for sports.” 

Eric Duarte 
sophomore 
sorin college 

“it hinders our outdoor activities by taking up all the free space.” 



Aaron Dunn 
senior sorin college 
“it’s gotta go.” 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
nicole caratas Ben padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Jenna wilson Hunter mcDaniel stephanie snyder 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 

Photo Viewpoint 

ND Votes: Pizza, Pop, Softball vs. Mindful Meditation “Jumping Scale” Folk Choir 35th 
emmet Farnan austin taliaferro 
and Politics Valparaiso Coleman-Morse Flanner Hall Anniversary Concert Geddes Hall Melissa Cook Stadium Center 3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 6 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Lecture discussing Heart 


Corrections 

Discussion will center The Irish take on the Open to students, Irish novel and the city 7:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 
the observer regards itself as on U.S. foreign policy. Crusaders. faculty and staff. of Dublin. Open to the public. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Softball vs. Western MFA Thesis Readings Lecture, “Critique or “The Death Camp “As You Like it” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Michigan DeBartolo Performing Dialogue” Eldorado” DeBartolo Performing 
however, recognize that we will make 
Melissa Cook Stadium Arts Center DeBartolo Hall Hesburgh Center for Arts Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m. 7 p.m.-  9 p.m. 5:30 p.m. - 7:30p.m. International Studies 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the Creative writing Discussion of 3 p.m. - 4 p.m. Shakespeare-based 
we can correct our error. 

Broncos. students speak. humanist inquiry. Discussing war effects. opera, world premiere. 




Resources 
continUeD From paGe 1 
could just be information from a medical doctor about a condition,” he said. “in some cases, if it were an obvious disability probably less information is needed, if anything at all.” 
the largest group of students served by the office are students with aDHD, Howland said, but the fastest-growing group is students with mental health issues. 
“really, about 90 percent of the students we work with, they have non-visible disabilities,” he said. “we work with 650 students that are registered with the office, so if students are looking around cam­pus and think they are identifying students with disabilities, they are really only seeing a small fraction.” 
the requirements on institu­tions of higher education are differ­ent from elementary, middle and high schools, Howland said. 
“the difference is that, with K-12, it’s really the responsibility of the school to identify the students that have disabilities. their ultimate goal is academic success of the student,” he said. “in higher educa­tion, we want the student to be suc­cessful as well, but really, students must self-identify to the University as having a disability, and again, we’re just trying to remove barriers to give them the same opportunity. our ultimate goal is that we’re giv­ing students the same opportunity to be successful. 
“in that sense, in K-12, they might provide more tutoring, more specialized instruction. we’re pro­viding more access.” 
Vice president for student af­fairs erin Hoffmann Harding said the University sees its role as one of providing the chance for all stu­dents to succeed. 
“it is our responsibility as ad­ministrators to ensure that every student has the opportunity to flourish during their time at notre Dame,” Hoffmann Harding said. 
“like other Universities, we are seeing an increased need for the resources and services offered by our office of Disability services. we aim to continue educating the campus community — faculty, staff and students alike — about these resources so students can make an informed decision about what they may need at any given time, so they can experience notre Dame to their fullest potential.” 

Accommodations 
every academic accommoda­tion is made with the idea of pro­viding equal access, Howland, said but also maintaining the integrity of the class. 
“accommodations are not provided that would lower the standard or alter the class signifi­cantly for a student with disability. it’s achieving the same goal, but taking a different way or method to get there,” he said. 
after a student has self-iden­tified and requested accom­modations from the University, Howland said he would meet with the student to discuss reasonable accommodations. 
“we would talk about specific accommodations, where they’re needed, how we would go about implementing them and how we would go about determining what 
paiD aDVertisement 

might be reasonable, what’s not reasonable in the scope of a class. they might ask for an accommo­dation for a class that we might not be able to provide because it has too much of an impact on the integrity of the class,” he said. “Because every student is different, and every class is different, there is a process by which my office would ultimately decide what’s the rea­sonable accommodations. 
“of course we’d also be consult­ing the department, faculty mem­bers, in making that decision. so there is a process, for instance, if i think a student should have an accommodation in a class and the professor disagrees. then our poli­cies outline the process by which then that might be elevated to the dean’s office or the provost’s office to determine how the University would respond to the request.” 
some accommodations can be provided quickly upon a student’s request, Howland said, such as ac­quiring a large print or electronic version of a textbook for a student who has a disability that impacts their ability to read standard print. 
“other accommodations, it might be asking for modification to a part of a class or to a major, those are going to take a little bit longer. we generally try to get some sort of response to the student within a week to two weeks,” he said. 
Howland said the office evalu­ates the efficacy of accommoda­tions throughout the semester. 
“we do it more formally at the end of the year, but we would do that continually throughout the year as well — we would seek feedback from students to get their feeling as to whether the accommodations were appropri­ate and helpful,” he said. 

Service dogs and emotion­al support animals 
accommodations available to students also include the opportu­nity to have service dogs and emo­tional support animals on campus, Howland said. 
“there are two categories: service animals, which can now only be a dog, and the intention of a service dog is to provide a specific task to a student with a disability,” he said. “that could be providing guidance around campus for someone with a visual impairment, there could be a service dog for someone with diabe­tes, that would help them better de­tect when their blood sugar is higher or lower.” 
emotional support animals do not necessarily have to be dogs and typically aid those with a mental health condition and provide a calming effect with their presence, Howland said. 
“when it’s an emotional support animal, it’s really restricted to the student’s dorm room. obviously they can take it out for exercise or to go to the bathroom, but really it’s limited to their dorm room,” he said. “it can’t go to the dining hall or anything like that, whereas ser­vice animals can go anyplace on campus the student can go, with the exception of like a science lab that is a clean lab that’s using pro­tective suits and things like that.” 


Study abroad 
Howland said he has encour­aged students who have received accommodations from Disability services to participate in study abroad programs, especially as more countries have adopted basic standards for accommodations. 
“Depending on the setting, if a student has needed housing ac­commodations, then we we would try to work with that setting to provide similar accommoda­tions while they are abroad,” he said. “the only time i might try to discourage a student or make a student aware of potential prob­lems, [is] if they are a student in a wheelchair or they are looking at countries where they might run into accessibility problems. we’ve had students that have traveled in 
Run 
continUeD From paGe 1 
do help adults with autism, but focus mainly on children. 
according to strasen, lighthouse autism center is “ba­sically like a little school for [chil­dren] with autism. they come in and do applied behavioral analy­sis therapy and all this fun stuff.” 
she said Baca is in elkhart and is similar to lighthouse autism center. she said the therapists work one-on-one with children, providing therapy specialized for behavior and social skills. 
“my cousin was born at 23 or 24 weeks old, and he is a little mira­cle baby,”  strasen said.“He is 12 now, and he has cerebral palsy, traumatic brain injury and se­vere autism, so that’s where it all stemmed from. i do Best Buddies many programs.” 

academic accommodations are also available to students in abroad programs, Howland said. 
“one of the challenges is if it is a student that has needed academic accommodations, but they’re tak­ing classes that are part of another university and not necessarily un­der notre Dame’s supervision, the laws might differ in those countries as far as what accommodations they can provide,” he said. “we had a student that studied in Jerusalem, and some of those courses were taken at different schools — the people that were notre Dame con­tacts or representatives in those countries were still able to help with coordinating with accom­modations. … it still worked, but sometimes it can be more a chal­lenging if there’s less control over the classes a student is taking.” 

Peer institutions 
the University “compares fairly well” to private schools that are members of the association of american Universities (aaU), Howland said, in terms of the num­ber of students served. 
“staffing, i think we might be a little bit lower,” he said. “we’re working with around 650 students, and there’s two full-time staff and a half-time administrative assistant.” 
the sara Bea center for Disability services primarily acts as a testing center for students who need accommodations for exams, Howland said. 
“this fall, it will be 10 years since we’ve been here, and i think we’ve begun to outgrow the space,” he said. “a goal would be to add ad­ditional space, and additional staff that can continue to provide a lot of one-to-one assistance.” 
stanford University is a univer­sity that notre Dame aspires to be­come a peer of, Howland said. 
“they’re a school that has devel­oped, from the point that they have a very large staff, and they have the office of accessible education,” he said. “they have a much greater staff than we do. i think that is one, that i would look to, as a highly-se­lective institution that is leading.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
at notre Dame, and we work with people with disabilities, so i felt like this was another thing to add on.” 
strasen said students should get involved with the 5K because of the prevalence of autism. 
“everyone knows someone or knows of someone else who is af­fected by this, whether it’s a family member or a friend,” she said. 
according to strasen, it is im­portant to keep in mind that people in the saint mary’s com­munity may have autism.
 “everyone at saint mary’s is so open minded for the most part and accepting of other people,” she said. “we probably have stu­dents here with autism and we don’t know it because there’s a huge spectrum of it. ” 

Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 

paiD aDVertisement 




DRO 
continUeD From paGe 1 
with students to ensure they received the accommodations they needed. 
Giamo said there are three prongs of disability that the of­fice serves including “learning, chronic medical and psychiat­ric disabilities.” 
students with disease vary from serious asthma, crohn’s disease, irritable bowel syn­drome and immunological diseases, she said. learning disabilities include dyslexia, dyscalculia, executive func­tion and attention disorders. psychiatric disabilities include anxiety disorders, bipolar, asperger’s and others. 
students must register with the Dro to receive accommo­dations, which are reviewed on a case-by-case basis, Giamo said. 
students eligible for educa­tional accommodations might receive extended time and reduced-distraction room, note-takers and print materi­als in alternate formats — elec­tronic and audio. 
Giamo said the Dro provides students access for what they need under the law and any grade they earn is a result of hard work. 
“we consider the established history, self-report and third party documentation and evaluations,” she said. “saint mary’s is a small campus, and it spreads responsibility for com­pliance with disability protec­tions to each member in our community.” 
Giamo said her office teach­es students to be indepen­dent and learn to advocate for themselves. 
“the office empowers stu­dents,” she said. “Disabled stu­dents may need extra time to show mastery of a subject, and it’s essential that they have ac­cess to facilities.” 
Giamo said saint mary’s has attracted several students with physical disabilities over the 
Iris Giamo director of DRO 

Giamo said aDa has in­creased the number of students that can attend college. 
“eight percent of the student population at saint mary’s identifies as having a disabil­ity,” she said. “only 75 percent of that eight percent use their accommodation.” 
according to Giamo, the rea­son only 75 percent of students 
paiD aDVertisement 


Giamo said it is crucial for students to share their concerns about accessibility and accom­modations with the college and the Dro. 
“it is only when people write or talk about it that we can deal with these issues.” 
other resources for students with disabilities include office for student success to assist students with their academic careers. 
Giamo said the office pro­motes academic skills and healthy study habits for students with and without disabilities. there are also volunteer tutors in each department as well as tutors in the writing center to help students succeed. 
she said there is a height­ened awareness especially with the emerging field of disability studies and theory. 
“there’s a saying in the field that ‘anyone at any time can be­come disabled,’” Giamo said. 

Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 



Service 
continUeD From paGe 1 
millions of undocumented immi­grants currently in the U.s. 
“we gather this afternoon at our lady’s Grotto to pray for our nation and for all who call this land our home,” corpora said. “immigrants have always enriched the United states since the very beginning.” 
corpora said to also keep in mind the Deferred action for childhood arrival (Daca) students. Daca is another immigration program that allows undocumented im­migrants who entered the country before they turned 16 and arrived in the U.s. before June 2007 to re­ceive exemption from deportation and permission to work legally in the U.s. for two years. 
“today we pray especially for Daca students here and all around the country and we pray for the improvement of our nation’s laws,” corpora said. “we remember that we are all pilgrims on a common journey towards God. we pray for the families, children, women and men who suffer because of unjust or ineffective immigration laws.” 
corpora said to pray to soften the hearts of the members of the supreme court so they can come to a just conclusion that will help and not hurt the many undocumented immigrants living in the U.s. today. He said to pray for mercy for these immigrants and to remember in God’s eyes no one is a stranger be­cause they are all made in the im­age and likeness of him. 
to conclude the service, those who attended were invited to light a candle to show their solidarity for all undocumented immigrants and to display their hope that bet­ter policies would be implemented that would allow for safe migration. 
“inspire in each of us a com­mitment to welcome a stranger, to protect the marginalized, and to create a more just and humane world,” corpora said. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
years, but this fall the college will welcome the first student in a wheelchair in at least 12 years. 
the Dro works closely with residence life and Facilities staff to provide the physical ac­cess needed and updates in ad­herence to legal architectural guidelines are made when nec­essary, Giamo said. 
may use their accommodations is because many students learn to compensate or may not need it for a certain classes. 
many practitioners in the field think the number is close to 10 percent nationally, Giamo said. 
equal access for people with disabilities is part of civil rights 


“The office empowers students. Disabled students may need extra time to show mastery of a subject and it’s essential that they have access to facilities.” 
and for this reason professors are required to include infor­mation about the Dro on their syllabi, Giamo said. 
“this has definitely raised the profile of the office and allowed students to address what they might need,” she said. “we have an exceptional faculty here and not only for students with disabilities” 


INSIDE COLUMN 



my lifelong friends 
Elizabeth Greason 
sports writer 

i had always heard people talk about the lifelong friends they made in college, far more commonly than lifelong high school or even childhood friends, but i never com­pletely understood it. it did not make sense to me that a friendship fostered during a different stage of life or education would be more likely to last. But, over the course of my first few months at notre Dame, it has become more clear to me why many people consider this the case. 
college strips you of your support sys­tems and forces you to build your own from scratch. i, for one, felt as though someone had thrown me into a blender and turned it on when i first arrived on campus, being tossed from place to place and from per­son to person. over the course of my first few months of college, i have been forced into situations in which i have had to rely on people more than i ever could have felt comfortable with in the past. and relying on people is certainly not my strong suit. But, in november, i sustained a concus­sion that made it nearly impossible for me to walk between classes unaided or read the words on the page in front of me. in the blink of an eye, i became incapable of func­tioning on a very basic level and was forced to turn to those around me, my friends, for help with the simplest aspects of my life. i was forced to succumb to being vulnerable and to let the people who i lived with and spent time with, and yet, barely knew, be­come my caretakers. 
what i think makes the friendships forged in college special, at least from a freshman’s perspective, is that the college environment does not exactly lend itself to building relationships based on trust. you are thrust into a group of strangers and ex­pected to become friends, or at least friend­ly, immediately. you have to let the trust and respect that made up the foundations of past friendships come later on, which can put you in a very uneasy and scary position. 
i have seen firsthand that being forced to be vulnerable and to rely on people can create a friendship stronger then i had pre­viously thought possible. Having my friends walk me between classes while i was concussed not only showed me that i was surrounded by incredibly nice and caring people, but that i had chosen to surround myself with people who i could trust. 
i am not saying that relationships i have and will make during my time here are any more valuable than those i have made in the past. they’re simply different. they serve different purposes and are created in different ways. i believe that the friends i make here will be my lifelong friends be­cause we serve as each other’s support sys­tems due to the trust we are forced to place in each other, even if it seems too soon to do so. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katherine Smart 
real talk 

while the world is aware of the hardships that face refugees living in the Jordan camps, such as Zaatari, the lack of protection for women against sexual and domestic violence is especially appalling. in an ex­posé done by the Guardian, reporters write that due to the frequency of sexual violence and lack of resources, families there are forcing their daughters into marriage. the average age of the girls in these marriages is 15 years old. Because of the young mar­riage age in combination with the religious aversion to contraceptives, of the 635,000 total registered refugees in the camp, 16,000 are pregnant with five percent being under the age of 18. 
Unfortunately, the lack of state-provided physi­cal and psychological protection for women in the Zaatari refugee camp is not unique. according to a study done in 2002, 150 million girls under the age of 18 reported suffered some form of sexual violence. Despite this statistic, only 2.4 percent of mediators and 3.7 percent of witnesses in peace negotiations between 1992 and 2011 were women, which is indica­tive of the lack of importance placed on develop­ing women’s rights. Because of this disparity and the broader problem, both the american Foreign relations committee and the United nations have focused on creating security policies that help in­corporate women’s rights into the peacemaking pro­cess. in order to effectively promote women’s rights throughout the globe, the United states should focus its foreign policy on creating trade and economic policies that incentivize nations to prioritize gender equality. imposing economic sanctions on counties that do not meet a certain standard of protection for women can accomplish this objective. 
while women’s rights are definitely still an issue in affluent countries, such as the United states itself, these sanctions should primarily target develop­ing and/or unstable countries, since these states have higher rates of gender equality violations. For example, the world Health organization found that between 30 different developing countries in the middle east, africa and asia, 200 million women and young girls experienced genital mutilation. Based on this type of violence and other factors, a study done by Usa today revealed the following countries to be some of the worst living conditions for females: mali, cote d’ivoire, iran, syria, chad, pakistan and yemen. these countries should be the first ones to be sanctioned by the United states due to their high tolerance level for violence and exploitation of women; this would set a precedent to the rest of the world that the United states is serious about holding its trade partners accountable. like the sanctions themselves, each targeted nation’s goals should be tailored to its current state of being. However, the following components should be used in every case to evaluate a nation’s progress toward gender equal­ity: women’s education, workforce representation, protection against violence and civil liberties. 
after analyzing how the United states can pro­mote women’s rights through economic restrictions, it is important to refocus the discussion on why the world needs to make gender equality a prior­ity. while the proposed sanctions will require time, money and manpower, the benefits women’s rights bring to the global peacemaking process far out­weigh the costs. 
in today’s warfare, peace treaties are no longer simply a ceasefire and a division of territory. they now lay the groundwork for future governance struc­tures and social institutions. therefore, it is vital that women are included in these negotiations so that their interests are represented. not only can women help with negotiations, but also they can as­sist with victim survivors. overall, women are able to contribute toward resolution 1325 of the United states security council, which focuses on their par­ticipation, protection, prevention and relief and re­covery in the peacemaking process. 
of the 600 peace treaties that were signed between 1990 and 2009, only one percent included policies regarding women’s rights. yet, 50 percent of sexual assaults reported worldwide are committed against girls under the age of 16. the juxtaposition of these two statistics proves that the world needs to bring women’s rights to the forefront of diplomacy. as a na­tion that champions equality and has the resources to influence other nations, the United states should impose economic sanctions on countries that are not working toward gender equality. while these sanctions may be expensive in the short-term, the long-term effects these sanctions would have on the promotion of women’s rights would be priceless. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the Naval ROTC program and a current resident of Badin Hall. She is a political science and pre-health major. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Diverse perspectives 
the center for civil and Human rights was one of six campus co-sponsors of an april 8 talk by George Deek, an arab christian who has served in israel’s diplomatic corps. Deek, now a Fulbright scholar at Georgetown, reflected on his personal experiences and suggested a path to peace based on those experi­ences. co-sponsorship of Deek’s talk advanced the ccHr’s mission of human rights education, as did the ccHr’s co-sponsorship of other events in which speakers have been critical of israel. an essential part of education is exposure to diverse perspectives, including perspectives with which students disagree. such exposure encourages critical thinking, provides an opportunity for civil discourse and creates an op­portunity for opponents to identify common ground. the ccHr does not endorse the views of any speaker, but strongly supports the respectful exchange of ideas and the value of constructive dialogue. 
Jennifer Mason McAward 

center for civil and Human rights april 15 


Pride and Privilege 
Erin Thomassen 
the examined life 

when i was growing up, i was taught to count my blessings, not deny my privileges. in fact, i was a little braggart who bragged about my privileges. you stayed up until 8:30? i stayed up until 9. you have Fruit by the inch? i’ve got Fruit by the Foot. 
in elementary school, i did not argue with my friends or foes about whose ancestors were more oppressed or whose parents struggled the most to send us to school. instead, we boasted about our distinguished heritage (i was obviously the lost russian princess) and the number of american Girl Doll outfits we got for christmas. 
when junior year of high school rolled around, i changed my tune. it was no longer desirable for me to be blessed. it was suddenly better to be disadvantaged so that college admissions teams would pity and admit me to their school. 
as a white middle-class girl from massachusetts, i tried and failed to come up with a sob story. my life was not perfect, but the pros definitely outweighed the cons. my parents may have gotten a divorce, but they both loved my sister and me more than i thought possible. i am sure other women face and have faced in­tense prejudice, but i had teachers who seemed to favor the girls; i, unlike my male counter­parts, rarely got in trouble when i arrived late for class. 
i began looking for anything significant in my life to complain about. as you can imagine, this gave me a rather negative view on life. it turned out my friends had jumped on the complain train as well. instead of bragging about a later bedtime, we would one-up each other about who had to study later and wake up earlier. who had more chores to do? who had less free time? 
we no longer boasted our blessings, but our curses. instead of gloating about getting our homework done early, we moaned about how many assignments we had left. we no longer competed over who had a better life, but who had a worse one. 
i then realized i was acting ridiculously. i did not have anything to complain about. i had never seriously wondered where my next meal would come from. there was a time when both of my parents were unemployed, and we lived fru­gally until my mom got a job again. if anything, i count it as a blessing that i had to be somewhat economically minded as a child without having to truly suffer. 
it would be a completely different case, though, if my family had not gotten back on its feet. i probably would not have attended private high school. i might have worked a job after school instead of dancing and running cross-country. while i still would have been privileged compared to a large percentage of the world, i would not have been as privileged as i am today. 
though privilege may be relative and subjec­tive, i can concretely say that i have been more privileged than a large portion of the world. many americans like to project the image of a self-made man or woman. if you were born into wealth, of course you are successful. if you work your way to the top, well then, you have done something truly admirable. 
i am more than willing to admit that i am not a self-made woman. i may not remember my time in the womb, but my mother certainly does. i owe so much of what i have been able to achieve to supportive teachers, parents and friends. i can’t even finish homework assignments without going to office hours for help. 
though i may not have had enormous victo­ries in my life such as winning a gold medal or defeating the nazis, i experience little victories every day. For all these victories, big and small, i am more than willing to admit that i have not accomplished them on my own. 
this is not a sad admission, but a happy one. it means that i can celebrate whatever i am able to do in gratitude with those who helped me do it. i can have compassion for those who were not given as much support as i was. i cannot justify greed or hoarding my wealth by claiming that i earned it. with God’s grace, i will walk away happy rather than sad when Jesus tells me to sell all i have and give to the poor. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Hijabless on Hijab Day 
Hello, my name is syazana yazid, and i am a muslim. if you met me, you would find out these facts in reverse order. this is because i wear the hijab: the symbol of expression of a faith and also a supposed oppression. 
coming from a country where wearing hijab is perfectly normal, i have never had to de­fend my choice of wearing one. i have never had to explain to someone why i wear it, why i started to wear it or why i “continue to wear it in the Usa.” it seems that a lot of people are quite concerned for me and need these ques­tions answered. i on the other hand, did not realize i had to be concerned. i did not real­ize that a piece of material on my head would trouble anyone but myself. it seems that a lot of the concerns people have with my hijab is that it links itself with oppression. the thought is that i was forced to wear this, or that i was brainwashed into thinking that i needed to wear this. Here is where i want to try and point out that this is not the case. no man, or woman for that matter, has ever forced me to put this on. as Hend amry has put it nicely in her ar­ticle on the hijab: “it implies that every single muslim woman who wears hijab is lacking the necessary intelligence to choose how she wants to live her life. For those who critique hijab in the name of feminism, i find this underlying, selective misogyny very ironic, not to mention damaging.” 
i do of course acknowledge there are certain countries in which the unethical and un-islam­ic forced wearing of the hijab is an oppression of human rights. However, to extend that opin­ion of oppression to include when women actu­ally choose to wear it in countries where it is not enforced is perplexing. 
notre Dame Hijab Day on april 20 invites peo­ple who usually do not wear the hijab, muslim or non-muslim, to experience wearing the hijab for a day. it serves to promote the choice of a woman to wear her hijab. you may choose to do so in solidarity, for experience, or for whatever reason you might come up with. it is a celebra­tion of the choice a woman makes to wear hijab. i invite anyone who is interested to come by DeBartolo from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., and to also stop by our ask a muslim booth. 
i hope that it is clear that the conversation i want to start on this day is not on why i wear the hijab. the conversation i want to start is that wearing hijab is a choice. i am also fully aware that the alternative of not wearing the hijab is another choice i can make — one that i plan to make on the notre Dame Hijab Day. 
Syazana Yazid 
senior april 18 



ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will sHortZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & JoHn roDDy 
SUDOKU | tHe mepHam GroUp 



FLING BY SPRING | riley mccUrrie HOROSCOPE | eUGenia last 

Happy Birthday: Bring joy to others and you will find happiness as well. make this the year to master your talents and fine-tune the way you present who you are and how you look. aim to cut overhead and reduce debt. choose to make a difference by participating in community events. make love a priority, and your personal life will improve. your numbers are 2, 10, 17, 23, 26, 39, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): strive for accuracy in your professional responsibilities. the way you handle your work will determine your ability to earn more. a commitment to a personal or professional contract looks promising. a physical change will add to your appeal. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get out into the mainstream. Being a participant will be educational and make you more aware of the options available to you. Gather information and put your strategy together. show appreciation to someone you love. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): offer to help others, but don’t let anyone take you for granted. make sure you get what you want by making your expectations clear to others. Update your image and you will be motivated to upgrade your skills as well. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): explore a new interest or sign up for an event that offers insight into future trends. the connections you make will provide food for thought and a chance to try out something that intrigues you. learn as you go. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): tidy up unfinished business so you can move on to projects, people or situations that will provide you with the inspiration you need to get back in to shape. Find a new way to use your talents to forge ahead. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): take the plunge and don’t stop until you reach your destination. your desire to be the best will be honored by onlookers. push for what you want and take over if you feel you can do a better job. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): mull over what you are up against and you’ll find a way to make subtle changes that will position you for personal gains. stabilize your future by putting an end to unhealthy situations. romance will lead to a positive change. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): read, explore and delve in to something that intrigues you. you will have clear vision and the drive to turn your ideas into a reality. push for excellence and you will find ways to change your life and enhance your reputation. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): concentrate on what you can do to make your domestic life better. Don’t be swayed by someone who is trying to push you toward extravagance. love is on the rise, but being with the right partner will help improve your well-being. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you are ready to make a strategic move, so stop waffling and take action. Don’t let unexpected pitfalls slow you down. size up your situation and outmaneuver any obstacles you encounter. produce, present and execute your plans. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): taking care of personal needs will prepare you to turn your dreams into something tangible. life is what you make it, and with a positive attitude and a simple plan, you will get positive results. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): strive to make your investments grow. whether it’s through personal self-improvements, educational pursuits or searching for an opportunity to put your ideas to good use, success is within your reach. Believe in your ability to upstage anyone who gets in your way. 


Birthday Baby: you are composed, patient and organized. you are precise and progressive. 
JUMBLE | DaViD Hoyt anD JeFF KnUreK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  the observer p.o. Box 779 notre Dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Luck not a factor in 100-meter dash 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This week, the Sports Authority columnists answer the question, “In which competition is it most difficult to win a championship?” 
there’s not really one defini­tion for difficulty of winning a sports championship. the nBa’s hard to win if you can’t get a generational talent on your roster. a college football team can’t afford to slip up at any point in the season. even the best college basket­ball team in the country can easily be upset in the ncaa tournament, and it’s hard to win a year-long soccer league by fluke. conversely, if it’s hard for the favorites to win, then it must be easier for all the others. 
But let’s look for the sport that does the best job at taking chance out of the equation. maybe you’re thinking of the nBa or nHl because of their multi-game playoff series. But how about a sport that ends in less than 10 seconds? that is, of course, the olympic 100-meter dash. 
maybe you think that a sport that’s over seconds after it be­gins can’t possibly be the one that best eliminates chance. then again, maybe you’re not thinking of the bigger picture. 
the stanley cup playoff’s format is a pretty good way to ensure that the best hockey team lifts the cup, but let’s think about this for a second: Do the champions benefit from all that much luck on the ice? maybe not. But what about off the ice? let’s think about your chances of making it into the nHl. 
Hockey is the dominant sport in canada and is also popular in northern and eastern europe, russia and the northern states of the United states. if you live in canada, you’ve probably played hockey at a young age. if you live in russia, you may have also played hockey at a young age, depending on a variety of fac­tors like income and location. But if you live in the middle east, you’ve probably never played hockey before. and it doesn’t help that hockey’s not an easy sport to pick up late: if you haven’t got any experi­ence on the ice by the time you enter college, don’t expect to find it easy. Just look at all the athletes in the south recruited to play football for elite pro­grams; sure, many of them wouldn’t be cut out for hockey, but with such a high number of great athletes, you’re going to find a few who would be elite in the nHl. 
the same logic applies to basketball: if you’re seven feet tall, you can be born any­where, find your way into the nBa and pick up everything you need to pretty quickly. But what about the best guards? what if steph curry wasn’t the son of a professional bas­ketball player? what if he was born outside the U.s.? if the entire world was exposed to basketball from an early age the way curry was, the chanc­es are that somewhere, some­one would be a better shooter. 
think about archery: you might have fired a bow before, but you’ve probably never seri­ously taken part in the sport. Do you really know that you couldn’t have been the great­est archer the world has ever seen if you set your mind to it? if your parents had only let you realize your potential as the greatest archer in the world, you could be competing at the olympics this year. But they didn’t. For someone, that’s basketball, or football, or base­ball or hockey. 
so the easy answer is soccer, right? it’s the most popular sport in the world, so it’s got to be the closest to eliminat­ing the chance of birth. what makes sprinting, clearly a less popular sport, my number one? the chances are much greater you’ve played orga­nized soccer than ran in a track meet. But think about transferring skills: people who don’t play soccer early are at a disadvantage, while people who are late to get into sprint­ing aren’t really. Virtually ev­ery sport involves some degree of running, so if you’re the best sprinter in the world, some­one is going to notice it. a tal­ented soccer player in the U.s. could be hanging around as a backup in the nBa because they barely played soccer in their youth, but there is no sport where you won’t recog­nize real speed. even outside of organized sports, children run around, they race each other and you notice who’s fast. eventually, these people find a way into track. and the best of them compete in the olympics. 
there’s not one person out there who could have beaten Usain Bolt but was unlucky enough to be born in the wrong part of the world. only the olympic Gold for the 100-meter dash can be won without the luck of the birth­place lottery. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC GOLF | illinois wesleyan KatHy niepaGen sprinG FlinG 
Kehoe leads smc amongst crowded field in illinois 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 

this past weekend, saint mary’s traveled to ironwood Golf club in normal, illinois, to participate in the illinois wesleyan Kathy niepagen spring Fling and finished 14th amongst 21 teams. 
Junior ali mahoney led the way for the Belles on day one, shooting a 10-over 82. Freshman taylor Kehoe was not far behind carding a 12-over 
84. the Belles’ other three scor­ers all broke 90, as sophomore Kelsey conkright recorded a 14-over 86, junior courtney carlson shot a 15-over 87 and senior sammie averill finished with a 17-over 89. the com­bined team score of 339, how­ever, was not what Belles head coach Kim moore was hoping for on saturday. 
“i felt day one we didn’t play very well, and that set us back going into day two,” moore said. “Day two we played much better. still left a lot of shots out there but overall much better. 
However, after day one, we had a lot of catching up to do, and with the teams in this field, it was a very tough task.” 
saint mary’s scored much better sunday, combining for a total of 326, which was a 13-stroke improvement over saturday’s performance. Kehoe led the charge recording a 6-over 78. averill contributed a 10-over 82 to the Belles’ to­tal, and carlson and mahoney shot matching 11-over 83s. conkright rounded out the team score with her 15-over 
87. Following sunday’s round, moore said she was pleased with the individual efforts of several players. 
“i was pleased with the con­sistency from taylor Kehoe and ali mahoney,” moore said. “taylor led our team with a second-round 78 and a total of 162, which put her in the top 40 [overall]. ali mahoney put to­gether a better two days, which she needed to get back to, and that helped us shoot a better score on day two.” 
the Belles will look to bounce back in a week’s time as they head into the conference’s auto­matic-qualifying tournaments. moore said the upcoming tour­nament is important, and she will be doing everything she can to have her team prepared. 
“we don’t play again until april 26, so i’m looking to use this week of practice to really mimic competition mode,” moore said. “i’m going to in­corporate and mimic some pressure within our drills at practice. this week of practice is going to be extremely impor­tant going into our ncaa auto­matic-qualifying rounds.” 
when the Belles do hit the links next, they will be play­ing in the first of three ncaa qualifying rounds to determine who will represent the miaa as the automatic qualifier to the ncaa tournament. the first of these tournaments will be hosted by olivet on april 26 at medalist Golf club in marshall, michigan. 
Contact Tony Zappia at azappia@nd.edu 
NHL | wilD 5, stars 3 

Pominville, Wild surge back to beat Stars 
Associated Press 

st. paUl, minn. — Jason pominville had two goals and an assist and the minnesota wild roared back from an early two-goal deficit to beat Dallas 5-3 on monday night and slice the stars’ lead in the western conference quarterfinals to 2-1. 
chris porter put the wild on the board in the final minute of the first period, their first even-strength goal of the series. erik Haula added a goal and an as­sist, mikko Koivu scored on a power play in the third period and the wild stopped a seven-game losing streak that started on march 31. 
patrick sharp scored 26 sec­onds into the game and again less than 4 minutes later for the stars, but the wild controlled the action after that and fin­ished with a 25-17 shots-on­goal advantage. 
Game 4 is in minnesota on 

FOR RENT 

3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800 
+ utilities. Washer/dryer, kitchen appliances included. Contact 
wednesday night, and Game 5 will be back in Dallas on Friday night. 
the stars went nearly 50 min­utes without scoring until the puck took a pinball-like path to the net off colton sceviour’s chest. sceviour didn’t appear to see the puck but was credited with the goal with 6:15 remain­ing to cut the lead to 4-3. 
pominville’s empty-netter all but ended it. 
sharp was uncovered in the slot when he converted a mid­air tip of alex Goligoski’s shot into a crowd-silencing score, with many of the customers not yet settled in their seats. the quiet hung in the arena air when sharp, the 14-year vet­eran in his first season with the stars, turned a breakaway into a 2-0 lead with his low shot that slipped under goalie Devan Dubnyk’s glove. 
one of the core members of chicago’s three stanley cup champions of the past six years, sharp helped eliminate the wild from each of the last three playoffs. sure enough, after departing the Blackhawks in a summer trade, here he was to haunt the wild again. in 18 ca­reer postseason games against minnesota, sharp has nine goals and eight assists. 
the wild needed a few min­utes to recover, but by the sec­ond half of the first period, they were all over the ice as the fans got over their initial frustration. 
porter muscled his stick in front of Goligoski’s to redi­rect a shot by Haula and give minnesota a critical goal with 50 seconds left before the first intermission. 
interim coach John torchetti put journeymen forwards Kurtis Gabriel and Zac Dalpe on the fourth line and scratched ryan carter and Jarret stoll — the only players on the roster who’ve won a stanley cup. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
philipms@sbcglobal.net the life held in your hands are shak­
ing cold. These hands are meant to 

Go ahead as you waste your hold. Speak to me. When all you got days with thinking. When you fall, to keep is strong. Move along, move everyone stands. Another day, and along like I know you do. And even you’ve had your fill of sinking. With when your hope is gone, move along. 


ND SOFTBALL | nD 3, Vt 0; nD 7, Vt 5; nD 5, Vt 3 
Irish sweep ACC foe on road over weekend 
Observer Staff Report 
notre Dame had a success­ful weekend in Blacksburg, Virginia, as the no. 20 irish completed a three-game sweep of Virginia tech on saturday and sunday. 
the irish (32-6, 9-3 acc) be­gan the weekend with a dou­bleheader against the Hokies (21-24, 10-8 acc). in the first game on saturday, notre Dame stifled the Virginia tech of­fense in a 3-0 victory. senior left-hander allie rhodes domi­nated the Hokies with her com­plete game performance and was the winning pitcher after going all seven innings and giv­ing up just one hit. Junior cen­ter fielder Karley wester and sophomore left fielder Bailey Bigger had rBis for the irish in game one. 
in the second half of the doubleheader saturday, notre Dame notched a 7-5 victory. the irish were led on the mound by sophomore Katie Beriont, who threw four and two-thirds shutout innings without allow­ing a hit in relief of junior start­er rachel nasland. at the plate, the irish saw contributions from wester, who had three rBis, and freshman third base­man melissa rochford, who had a home run, two rBis and scored a run. the Hokie offense was paced by freshman right fielder emma strouth’s home run and three rBis. 
notre Dame’s series with Virginia tech culminated sunday afternoon in a 5-3 vic­tory for the visitors. the irish put on an impressive offensive display that was highlighted by 13 hits from seven different players. wester had her third straight strong game in the leadoff spot for the irish, and led the way with three hits and a rBi. rochford, Bigler and se­niors micaela arizmendi and megan sorlie also had multi-hit games for notre Dame, as the irish scored 2 runs in each of the fifth and sixth innings to seal the sweep. rhodes picked up her second win of the series and fifteenth victory overall in six innings of work. senior maggie tyler pitched the entire game for Virginia tech, but gave up five earned runs in what was her fifteenth loss of the season. 
next on the docket for notre Dame is a matchup with western michigan on tuesday at melissa cook stadium. the Broncos (18-19, 9-4 mac) cur­rently lead the west division of the mac and are 8-3 since the turn of the calendar into the month of april. 
the irish will likely have to face Broncos senior left-hand­ed allyson Kus, who has been named the mac pitcher of the week for the west division each of the last two weeks. she holds a 7-0 record in her last seven starts and leads the mac with a 1.40 earned-run aver­age in conference play, so she could pose a problem for notre Dame’s ninth-ranked scoring offense. 
First pitch between the irish and Broncos is scheduled for 6 
p.m. tuesday at melissa cook stadium. 





paiD aDVertisement 

paiD aDVertisement 



ND WOMEN’S GOLF | acc cHampionsHips 
notre Dame finishes 10th at acc championships 
enough to overcome the initial 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 

sports writer hiccup, and the team ended 
up 10th out of 12 teams after 

this past weekend, the irish the final round. competed in the acc champi-“the 10th place finish is onships in Greensboro, north obviously not something carolina, in the quest for we’re happy with, but the their first title since the team acc women’s golf conference won their last Big east crown is one of the most if not the in 2013. amongst a field of 12 most competitive in the coun­that included 10 teams in the try, just based on rankings Golfstat top 50 and difficult and teams,” irish head coach conditions, the irish stumbled susan Holt said. “you’ve gotta to a 10th-place finish. be prepared and be ready to 
on Friday, with windy con-show up all three days, and ditions, the team limped to we didn’t do that. as a result, one of their highest team we got beat, and we got beat scores of the season, shoot-bad. i think the takeaway for ing a 22-over-par 310, which us moving into the postsea­put them at 10th right from son, since the competition is the get-go. the irish did im-gonna be even more competi­prove as the tournament went tive, is that we have to be ready on, as the irish shot 11 strokes and present all three days and better to get to a 33-over-par ready to execute.” 609 through saturday before the irish were led by se­a final-round 295 to finish at nior captain talia campbell, 40-over. But this still wasn’t who finished in ninth overall 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

with a 2-over-par 218. she also made program history, be­coming the first irish golfer to be the top team performer in four consecutive confer­ence tournaments and the fifth to ever be in the top 15 for four straight conference tournaments. 
“talia played fantastic, and i’m really happy for her.” Holt said. “she’s had a very solid ca­reer for us, and for her to play the steady rounds that she did all three days at the champi­onships was impressive and well deserved for her. 
“she’s worked really, really hard on her game, this semes­ter in particular, and she’s been rewarded for that. ... For her to be able to do what she’s done not only for four years but also this year. we’ve had some pretty brutal conditions, especially this spring, when the weather hasn’t been good 
paiD aDVertisement 
on the road, and we’ve had wind, rain and cold, so its been really impressive to watch her level of consistency through all of that.” 
Following her was freshman emma albrecht, who tied for 17th with a 6-over 222. she improved her play each of the three days, carding a 75-74-73 in the tournament. 
“she’s just progressed very nicely and steadily through the whole season,” Holt said. “she’s playing some of her best golf right now, which bodes well for moving into the postseason.” 
albrecht’s fellow freshmen isabella Dilisio and maddie rose Hamilton followed her, finishing in 44th and 52nd re­spectively, and the lineup was rounded out by junior Jordan Ferreira, who came in 56th. 
the irish will now head back to the drawing board with ncaa regionals on the horizon. 

“well, obviously our goal every year is to compete for national championships, so we are gonna do what we can to make it to the finals,” Holt said. “our preparation will be based on individual needs. that’s the thing with our sport, everyone has different things that they need to work on, and with this past tourna­ment, i think everybody has plenty that they need to work on. they know what those ar­eas are, so we’ll just put our focus on those, and hopefully we’ll get some cooperation with the weather.” 
the field for the four ncaa regionals will be released monday at 6 p.m., and the re­gionals will take place may 5-7. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 


W Tennis 
continUeD From paGe 16 
short of winning the second set, falling 7-6(4). it mattered little, however, as Broda was able to win the match in the third and deciding set, 6-3, on court no. 
5. on court no. 2, junior monica robinson emerged victorious in her match, 6-4, 6-3. on court no. 1, senior Quinn Gleason also won in straight sets by the same score, 6-4, 6-3. the rest of the singles matches belonged to the Hokies. sophomore allison miller won her first set, 6-2, be­fore losing the next two sets, 6-4, 6-4, on court no. 3. on court no. 6, junior Jane Fennelly lost the first set, 6-0, before bounc­ing back to win the second set, 6-4. Fennelly came up just short in the deciding third set, falling 7-6(4). the other irish singles loss belonged to junior mary closs, who lost in straight sets, 6-4, 6-4, on court no. 4. 
the irish dominated the dou­bles competition, however. the doubles team of Gleason and robinson won 6-4 on court no. 1, while senior Julie Vrabel and closs emerged victorious, 7-5, on court no. 2. on court no. 3, Broda and miller were tied, 4-4, before the match was dis­continued after the irish had clinched the doubles point. 
irish head coach Jay louderback said the practices his team had before the Virginia tech match put his team in the right mindset going into the weekend. He also said he was pleased with his team’s perfor­mance in the Virginia match. 
“we beat a very good Virginia tech team on Friday,” louderback said. “the credit for that win goes to our student-athletes and the positive prac­tices we had leading up to the match. we also played well in the loss at Virginia.” 
in sunday’s morning match between the irish and cavaliers, Broda won her match, 6-2, 6-4, on court no. 5. miller also emerged victorious on court no. 3, 7-5, 6-4. Gleason, closs, Fennelly and robinson did not have the same success as their two teammates, however. on court no. 1, Gleason was best­ed, 6-1, 6-3. closs lost her match in straight sets, 6-2, 7-5, on court no. 4. Fennelly was met with the same fate on court no. 6, losing 7-5, 6-3. robinson fell as well, 6-1, 6-2, on court no. 2. 
in the doubles matches, Broda and miller were winning 5-4 on court no. 3 when the match was discontinued after the cavaliers had secured the point. the duos of Gleason and robinson and closs and Vrabel were both bested by a score of 6-3 on courts no. 1 and 2, respectively. 
later that afternoon against norfolk state, notre Dame dominated from start to finish in both the singles and dou­bles competition. Broda and Fennelly shut out their oppo­nents 6-0, 6-0 on courts no. 4 and 5, respectively. closs swept her opponent 6-1, 6-1 on court no. 3. on court no. 1, Gleason won 6-1, 6-0, followed by a 6-2, 6-1 victory by miller on court no. 2. Freshman rachel chong emerged victorious as well on court no. 6, 6-2, 6-2. 
in the doubles competi­tion, the duo of Gleason and Fennelly won, 6-2, on court no. 1 and was followed by Broda and miller emerging victo­rious, 6-2, on court no. 2. Vrabel and chong finished off the team sweep by win­ning 6-4 on court no. 3. 
this week, notre Dame will travel to cary, north carolina, to play in the acc championships at cary tennis center. the irish will be the no. 11 seed in the tournament and will take on no. 14-seeded pittsburgh at 10 a.m. wednesday. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
Baseball 
continUeD From paGe 16 

now, Vierling and the irish will look to stay hot against a high-powered spartan of­fense that has five regulars in its lineup batting over .300. 
michigan state is led at the plate by junior first base­man Jordan Zimmerman, whose .427 batting average, 34 runs, five home runs, 13 doubles, 21 walks and .653 slugging percentage are all 
tops  for  the  spartans  this  
season.  
redshirt  junior  left- 
hander  cam Vieaux  and  

redshirt sophomore 
right-hander Dakota mekkes pace michigan state on the mound with strong eras of 
1.18 and 1.36, respectively. 

notre Dame will coun­ter with senior left-hander michael Hearne, who leads the team with a record of 4-0 and a 2.72 era. after shut­ting down Valparaiso with a complete-game, one-run ef­fort last wednesday, Hearne will look to repeat that per­formance against michigan state’s potent lineup. 
one of notre Dame’s many long-time rivals in baseball, the spartans and the irish have met 133 times previ­ously, with michigan state holding a 79-54 lead in a se­ries stretching back to 1907. 
last year’s thriller be­tween the two teams at Frank eck stadium need­ed 12 innings, with the spartans coming away with a 9-6 victory. in that game, the irish put up four runs in the first inning, with cur­rent junior second baseman cavan Biggio crossing the plate twice for notre Dame. 
the newest entry into the rivalry will get under way at 
3:05 p.m. at mclane Baseball stadium on tuesday in east lansing before the irish re­turn home for another mid­week game against central michigan on wednesday. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 







obviously pretty special for 
W Lacrosse 
them that they can hang on to.” 
continUeD From paGe 16 
notre Dame opened the 

scoring just 2:09 into the Dame freshman samantha game when senior midfield-Giacolone made nine of her er stephanie toy scored her own in the loss. 11th goal of the season before 
“i think you’ve got to give two trojans goals in the next credit to both defensive units few minutes gave Usc its first and both goalkeepers today,” lead. irish junior attack Grace irish head coach christine muller leveled the score with Halfpenny said. “to put two 17:00 to play in the half, and of the top-scoring offenses Fortunato returned the lead to at their season lows at four notre Dame 23 seconds later and five is something that’s with a free-position goal. But 
paiD aDVertisement 
paiD aDVertisement 


it only took a couple minutes for trojans junior attack Kylie Drexel to level the score once more at 3-3. 
Despite there still being more than 13 minutes left in the half, neither side was able to break through for a halftime advan­tage — though the irish had a golden opportunity right before halftime, when three scoring chances, including a free-po­sition effort from Fortunato, went by the wayside. 
the trojans opened the scoring after the break when michael grabbed her first goal, but Fortunato answered to tie things up once more, this time at 4-4, with 17:34 to play. 
perhaps the game’s biggest moment came off the ensu­ing draw control, where notre Dame won possession and raced down the field to score what looked like a good goal — but the referees didn’t allow it, keeping the score tied. 
“i’ve already got film that one of our goals actually did go in, so we’re talking about a 5-5, and it’s a tough break to have to fall on that sword,” Halfpenny said. “we’re not the ones that can actually whistle it a goal even though we have video footage, we saw it from the sideline [and] our players saw it, so that’s a tough one.” 
a couple minutes later, with 
14:58 to play, michael grabbed her second goal of the game and 52nd of the season — the goal that proved to be the game-winner. 
after getting that slim 5-4 lead, the trojans bore down to see out the win: notre Dame registered just one shot on goal in the final 15 minutes, a tame effort from junior midfielder casey pearsall with 2:45 to play. 

after the loss, notre Dame’s third by one goal against a team ranked above it in this week’s inside lacrosse poll, Halfpenny said her team was vocal in the locker room. 
“i think that they gave themselves a message — the team did most of the talking,” Halfpenny said. “they talked to one another, and it’s really tough to know that Usc maybe made one play more than we did.” 
on the stat line, it was a tight game — the irish edged the trojans in forced turnovers (19­
17) and shots (20-19), tied them in ground balls (19-19) and lost draw controls by one (6-5). For both teams, the shot numbers were the lowest of the season, and Halfpenny said her attack­ing unit knows it has to do bet­ter moving forward. 

“For us, i think that there was a clear message from the players to each other that four goals is unacceptable for the scoring offense and the high-octane ability that we have and all of the different ways that we’ve been scoring all season,” Halfpenny said. “Four is just not who we are; we need to be better, and we’re gonna pre­pare and definitely be better — more than four, we’ll be better than four next time out.” 
notre Dame concludes its regular season with a trip to no. 9 ohio state on saturday, with the first draw at owens memorial stadium scheduled for 3 p.m. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 

M Tennis 
continUeD From paGe 16 
“obviously it’s been a team effort, but [monaghan] get­ting back to the elite level that he’s accustomed to has been huge for us,” sachire said. “also, [Hagar] was out all fall with a wrist injury, and he was our no. 2 [singles player] last year, so his get­ting stronger has also been huge. those two guys are getting back to their position of college tennis’ perennial players.” 
notre Dame now moves on to the acc champion­ships, where it has earned a no. 7 seed and will square off against no. 10 seed Duke. winners of four straight matches, the irish carry a lot of momentum entering the tournament, sachire said. 

“i think it gives us confi­dence,” sachire said. “we don’t get extra credit for win­ning a few straight matches entering the tournament, but i think what it gives us is the confidence in knowing that if we play our best ten­nis, we can go out and beat anybody.” 
the irish will take on the Blue Devils at 1 p.m. thursday at cary tennis center in cary, north carolina. 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | Usc 5, nD 4 
Irish fall to Trojans in matchup of top-10 teams 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant managing editor 
when no. 4 Usc and no. 10 notre Dame started the day monday, both squads were amongst the nation’s scor­ing leaders — the trojans led the ncaa with 15.36 goals per game, while the irish entered with the fourth-best mark, av­eraging 14.87. 
But what fans at arlotta stadium got monday afternoon was far from an offensive game, as the trojans (15-0, 7-0 mpsF) ground out a 5-4 win over the irish (11-5, 4-3 acc) in the lowest-scoring game in notre Dame program history. 
two of the country’s top-10 individual scorers, trojans ju­nior attack michaela michael and irish junior attack cortney Fortunato, each grabbed a pair of goals, but it was the goal­keepers who stole the show — Usc sophomore Gussie Johns notched 10 saves, while notre 
see w lacrosse PAGE 15 

BASEBALL 

squad looks to stay hot at msU 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre Dame has now won five consecutive games af­ter a home sweep of Boston college over the weekend, and it will look to extend that winning streak in a midweek game at michigan state when it travels to east lansing on tuesday. 
the irish (21-12, 9-7 acc), coming off a weekend of domination over the eagles in which they used a com­bination of quality pitching and an outburst of offense, will look to build on both fac­ets against the spartans (25­7, 7-2 Big ten) in their first game away from Frank eck stadium since march 26. 
During their 11-game homestand, which they started march 31, the irish dropped just two games. notre Dame’s current five-game win streak was kept alive with a late comeback against Boston college on sunday to erase a five-run deficit. senior left fielder ricky sanchez went 4-5 at the dish while plating three runs and scoring a pair himself. 

irish freshman outfielder matt Vierling, who hit a two-run home run saturday in their 4-1 win over the eagles, spoke after the game about why the team has had such a high level of success recently. 
“[irish head] coach [mik] aoki’s been talking about this a lot, where we’re walk­ing this fine line between playing loose and staying in the game – staying focused,” Vierling said. “it’s like a per­fect balance of, we’re hav­ing a really good time, a lot of fun, but at the same time, we’re getting timely hit­ting, pitching it really well, playing good defense and everybody is on board with the plan. so it’s really fun. it’s really, really good to be around.” 
see BaseBall PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nD 4, VirGinia tecH 3; VirGinia 5, nD 2; nD 7, norFolK state 0 
Notre Dame takes two of three to end season 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports editor 

notre Dame went 2-1 this weekend, grabbing wins over Virginia tech and norfolk state while also falling on the road to no. 13 Virginia. 
the irish (12-12, 5-9 acc) defeated the Hokies (14-9, 7-7 acc) in a conference match Friday afternoon at courtney tennis center by a score of 4-3. the match was the final home tilt for the four seniors on notre Dame’s ros­ter. then, the irish traveled to charlottesville, Virginia, on sunday morning and dropped a 5-2 decision to the cavaliers (14-9, 9-5 acc). the team then hopped on the bus and drove to nearby norfolk, Virginia, where the irish shut out the spartans (9-11, 6-0 meac), 7-0, that afternoon in their last match of the regular season. 
on Friday, notre Dame split the six singles matches with the Hokies. sophomore Brooke Broda won her first set, 6-2, before coming up just 
see w tennis PAGE 14 

MEN’S TENNIS | nD 6, nc state 1 
nD follows upset with another win 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
carrying with it a full boost of confidence and momen­tum after its senior Day vic­tory over top-ranked north carolina, notre Dame didn’t lift its foot of the pedal in its regular season finale, as it went on the road and cruised to a 6-1 win over conference foe north carolina state at the J.w. isenhour tennis center on sunday. 
the irish (14-12, 6-6 acc) closed out their regular sea­son with a complete team effort, securing the doubles point and taking five of the six singles points from the wolfpack (17-13, 5-7). seniors and 16th-ranked doubles pair alex lawson and Quentin monaghan started off the afternoon with a 6-2 win on court no. 1, while the duo of juniors eddy covalschi and Josh Hagar clinched the doubles point on court no. 2, also by a score of 6-2. 
notre Dame transitioned well to the singles portion of the match, as the irish clinched the win at 4-0 after wins from freshman Grayson Broadus on court no. 5, lawson on court no. 4 and monaghan on court no. 1. the irish tacked on two more points before the match was over, with victories from Hagar on court no. 3 and se­nior Kenneth sabacinski on court no. 6. irish head coach ryan sachire said he was pleased with how well his team played, especially af­ter its big win against north carolina. 
“we played with confi­dence, played with poise and we’re confident and ag­gressive in key situations,” sachire said. “a big key for this team has been a great mindset of not putting ex­tra weight on one particu­lar match, and i think it helped in our last match and it helped us in this one. we really played a complete match.” 
monaghan and Hagar are amongst the key individuals that have spurred this cur­rent stretch of great play for the irish, he added. 
see m tennis PAGE 15 




