The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 104 | THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Details emerge in investigation 
Complaint alleges University allowed repeat offender to avoid Title IX hearings 
MARGARET HYNDS 
editor-in-chief 
The united states department of education’s office of civil rights (ocr) said Tuesday it had opened an investigation Feb. 19 into the university’s handling of a sexual assault case last spring. The office also has four open in­vestigations into the university for its handling of sexual ha­rassment cases as far back as september 2013. 
in 2013, the ocr opened two investigations into the han­dling of two graduate students’ complaints of possible Title iX violations pertaining to sexual harassment. 
The ocr launched the two most recent sexual harassment investigations against notre dame on oct. 21, 2015, and Feb. 19, 2016. The latter harassment investigation has the same complainant as the sexual as­sault investigation launched the same day. 
all three of those cases — the most recent harassment cases and the sexual assault case 
— involve the same alleged perpetrator. 
according to university spokesperson dennis brown, the alleged perpetrator in ques­tion was dismissed from the university nearly a year ago. 
“... The university acted swiftly in this matter, and the accused student was dismissed from the university nearly a year ago, months before any Title iX complaint was filed with the ocr,” brown said in an email wednesday night. 
laura dunn, who represents 
see ocr PAGE 4 



student’s death ruled natural 
Observer Staff Report 
michael o’connell, dep­uty coroner for st. Joseph’s county, ruled junior Jake scanlan’s death as due to nat­ural causes Tuesday, accord­ing to a south bend Tribune report.  scanlan, who was found unresponsive in his dorm room the morning of nov. 11, “died as a result of an enlarged and weakened heart,” the report stated. 
The 20-year-old resident of siegfried hall was a mechan­ical engineering major from north potomac, maryland. 


nd named a top Fulbright producer 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
For the second consecutive year, notre dame has been on The chronicle of higher education’s Fulbright u.s. student program Top producing list. Fourteen students have re­ceived Fulbright grants for the 2015-2016 program and have been given chances to pursue their academic passions and inquiries in countries such as brazil, senegal, italy and more. 
mae kilker, a medieval institute graduate student and native of south bend, is a Fulbright recipient currently studying and conducting re­search in sweden. 
“my research explores how people from the medieval ages understood the physical envi­ronment — and not only the way that they experience that, but also how they told stories about it,” kilker said. “The reason i’m in sweden is my particular field is looking at anglo-saxon england, but the current scholarship is to understand the north atlantic cultural sphere as a whole be­cause england was settled by scandinavian-germanic tribes.” 
kilker said she has always had a passion for the middle ages because of its language and poetry, and it was this passion that inspired her to apply for the Fulbright program. she said she hopes that completion of the program will bring her closer to a career in academia. 
“in addition to just being able to have a year in sweden and do my research and connect with scholars in my field, it has actu­ally brought me to other oppor­tunities such as postdocs and publication,” kilker said. 
mike westrate, associate pro­gram director for the office of grants and Fellowships, works in the graduate school to help graduate and undergraduate students distill their research into written form in order to ap­ply for grants and fellowships. 
“i have always said that there are two sort of gateway fel­lowships and that you can 
see FulbrighT PAGE 5 

2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: GERARD BAKER 




WSJ editor analyzes races 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 

Editor’s Note: Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, The Observer will sit down with Notre Dame experts to break down the election and its importance to students. In this seventh installment, News writer Rachel O’Grady asks Editor­in-Chief of the Wall Street Journal and Managing Editor of Dow Jones Gerard Baker about his experience moderating a GOP debate and covering the election for the Journal. 
rog: it increasingly looks like Trump will get the republican nomination. what are the implications of that? how does the gop avoid getting trounced in the general election? 
gb: The gop faces some tough challenges if, as seems likely, Trump is the nominee. mainstream and so-called establishment republicans will have to de­cide whether they can back him, which is difficult for many of them because of his unorthodox views. if they don’t, they will have to fur­ther decide whether to actu­ally field a candidate against him in the general election. if they do, they will likely hand the election to mrs. clinton, as they will surely split the republican vote, and at the same time could 
see elecTion PAGE 4 


activists host ‘edit-a-thon’ 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 

students, staff, faculty and members of the south bend community will gather Friday at 6 p.m. at the notre dame arts and culture center to research, write and publish the stories of notre dame black faculty and alumni on wikipedia. 
visiting assistant librarian kai smith organized the “edit-a-thon.” 
“The nd black lives matter [event] is a wikipedia edit-a­thon that i’ve decided to put together to highlight the nota­ble black alumni and faculty here at the university of notre dame,” she said. “some of the people they’ll be featuring are current faculty, includ­ing some from the africana studies department: richard pierce, dianne pinderhughes and a number of different athletic alumni, like dave duerson.” 
smith and some of her col­leagues will be on site to support participants with technical issues, research and writing. 
“we’ve done a lot of the re­search beforehand, 
see wikipedia PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 

 The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is your favorite restaurant in South Bend? 

Isaiah Brown 

Madlen Karnatz 
sophomore 
junior 
morrissey manor 
ryan hall 
“The mark.” 
“rocco’s.” 
Maya Jain 

Reed Miller 
junior 
junior 
ryan hall 
o’neill hall 
“chicory cafe.” 
“main street grill.” 
Alex Groesch 

Nathan Troscinski 
junior 
junior 
siegfried hall 
morrissey manor 
“evil czech.” 
“Fiddler’s hearth.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

katie galioto manny de Jesus Email news@ndsmcobserver.com Jp gschwind marek mazurek kathryn marshall 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
susan Zhu scott olehnik 
Photo Viewpoint 

Chimamanda Ngozi Graduate Student Men’s Basketball vs. Men’s Tennis vs. Spring Break 
emmet Farnan John darr 

Adichie First Friday Dinner NC State Louisville campus wide O’Laughlin Auditorium Coleman-Morse Purcell Pavilion Eck Tennis Pavilion March 5-March 13 
7:30p.m.-9 p.m. Center 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. No classes in session. 
Corrections 

Lecture about her life 6:15 p.m.-7:30 p.m. The Irish take on the The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as and writing. All faiths are invited. Wolfpack. Cardinals. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Iron Sharpens Iron Edit-a-thon Hats Off to Reading Chamber Music Nun Run 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse Notre Dame Center for Notre Dame Bookstore Concert off campus 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Arts & Culture 10 a.m.-11 a.m. DeBartolo Performing March 5-March 12 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 6 p.m.-8 p.m. Reading of “The Lorax” Arts Center. Campus Ministry trip 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Fellowship for all Edit Wikipedia with ND and sustainability 2:30 p.m.-3:45 p.m. to various religious 
we can correct our error. 

denominations. Black Lives Matter. discussion. “20th Century Masters.” communities. 


STUDENT SENATE 

Group approves new Judicial Council president 
“There is no one more qualified for this position than caitlin. she has been an excellent vice president of elections, demonstrat­ing adept knowledge of the student union and its con­stitution and collaborating with myself on important judicial council initiatives,” waterson said. “over the past year, she has demonstrated composure under pressure, a strong foundation in ethics and morality and extraordi­nary skill at managing re­sponsibilities, deadlines and the members of a team.” 
earlier in the meeting, waterson also proposed amendments to redundan­cies and errors in the student union constitution, address­ing grammatical corrections and more specificity regard­ing outdated subsections. 
waterson also nominated 2014-2015 Judicial council president and notre dame alumna kathryn margaret peruski as judicial coun­cil president emeritus, in recognition of her dedica­tion and contribution to the university. 
“kathryn leveraged her ex­perience to readily and gen­erously provide support and counsel to Judicial council president Zach waterson and vice president of elections review board and scoring 

By Justine Wang 
system. 
senior Zach waterson, 

student senate met current president of Judicial wednesday evening to ap-council, nominated junior prove a new Judicial council caitlin geary for the posi­president and make amend-tion. geary serves as vice ments to both the student president of elections under union constitution and the waterson, a position she has hall of the year presentation, held for the past two years. 
news writer 

paid adverTisemenT 

caitlin geary during several unprecedented situations, even well after her term had completed and she had grad­uated,” waterson stated in his resolution. 
bestowing the title of judi­cial council president emeri­tus upon peruski will be the first time this has been done in Judicial council history, according to waterson. 
other senatorial orders included amendments to the hall of the year review process, put together by fo­cus groups within the hall presidents council (hpc). seniors meredith Fraser and seamus Quilty, co-chairs of hpc, proposed three amendments, all of which were passed by senate. 
The first amendment will allow four members of a residence hall to contribute to presentations received by the review board. in past years, only three residents from each dorm were al­lowed to be on the present­ing team. 
“we heard from the focus groups that one of the things [the hall presidents] wish they could have is a testimo­nial or a witness from a ran­dom resident in the hall ... to share about why [their hall] is a great place to be, just to share why [their] hall is the best,” Quilty said. 
The second amendment proposed that the direc­tor of the department of residence life be added to the nine-person hall of the year review board, effective immediately. 
The third amendment changed the the hall of the year scoring system, so that 55 percent of the points come from a presentation and 45 percent from rockne awards. previously, 65 per­cent of points came from the hall presentations, while the rockne awards only counted for 35 percent of the total score. 
“part of that 65 was a sig­nature event form, where you submit a separate form about your signature event telling us more details about it,” Quilty said. “That’s grad­ed and that’s part of that presentation score. now, we’re just moving it to the rockne because we felt that it’s more representative of what rocknes are.” 
“in addition, we created a favorite event form, so we’re moving that to the rockne category too,” Fraser said. 
senate will not meet the week after spring break. 
Contact Justine Wang  at jwang27@nd.edu 
nd announces honorary degrees 
campuscrossroads construction 
Observer Staff Report 
project, the press release stated. 
notre dame will confer six The university will honor honorary degrees at this year’s arturo sandoval, an internation­commencement ceremony, the ally acclaimed jazz and classical university announced in a press musician and composer, with a release wednesday. doctor of fine arts. sandoval, who 
diane nash, richard notebaert, began playing the trumpet at age arturo sandoval, cardinal 12 at his home in cuba, has since donald wuerl and pauline yu received 10 grammy awards, will join u.s. army gen. martin six  billboard awards, an emmy dempsey, the 2015 commence-award and the presidential medal ment speaker, as honorary degree of Freedom in 2013, according to recipients. the release. 
dempsey, the former chairman wuerl, the archbishop of of the Joint chiefs of staff, will re-washington d.c., will receive an ceive an honorary doctor of laws honorary doctor of laws. wuerl degree. was appointed a cardinal by pope 
nash, a civil rights movement benedict Xvi in march 2010 and is leader, will also receive a doctor a chair of the board of Trustees of of laws. nash helped shaped the the basilica of the national shrine selma right-to-vote movement of the immaculate conception, that eventually led to the voting according to the release. rights act of 1965, according to The university will award an the press release. honorary doctor of humanities 
notebaert, chair of notre to pauline yu, president of the dame’s board of Trustees, will american council of learned be receive a doctor of laws. societies, a private, nonprofit notebaert is the retired chair and federation of 73 national schol­ceo of Qwest communications arly organizations that represent international. during his time as american scholarship in the hu­chair, the university has provid-manities and related social sci-ed more financial aid, welcomed ences, according to the release. more diverse groups of incom-The commencement ceremony ing students and launched the will be held on may 15. 


The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Election 
conTinued From page 1 
do even more lasting damage to the party. if the number of republicans who refuse to support Trump is small — as it could be — i would not rule out at all the possibility that he could win the presidency in november. he has tapped into and articulated a deep anger among many middle class americans and if he can get them to come out and vote in unusually large numbers, 
he could beat mrs. clinton, 
who is in many ways not the 
most skilled campaigner and 
whose own negative ratings 
among voters are high. 
rog: you moderated a gop debate a few weeks ago. can you give us some insight on how that was? i imag­ine it’s certainly a unique experience. 
gb: it was literally unique for me. it was also a great privilege. i must confess it was fairly nerve wracking. Though i have done plenty of television, appearing live before more than 15 million people for more than two hours in prime time was cer­tainly daunting. but we were very well prepared, and we made a conscious decision to stick very much to policy issues in our questions as op­posed to some of the more trivial topics or “horse-race” coverage, which i felt, as edi­tor of the Journal, was ap­propriate for me. it was a wonderful and invigorating experience. 
rog: what were your goals or aims for the wall street Journal’s coverage of the election season? how has the media played a role in the 2016 election, and has it been 

different than any other year? 
gb: The media has clearly played a very important role in 2016. The attention given to donald Trump — and the Tv ratings associated with him — have been extremely important in his rise. but we shouldn’t forget also that social media has played an increasingly important role. mr. Trump himself is a big tweeter and has gained wide­spread and sustained atten­tion through his tweets. at the Journal, we have aimed to focus as much as possible on the big topics — with im­portant investigative stories on Trump’s background and mrs. clinton’s political and fundraising record, as well as on the other candidates. and we’ve looked hard at the major policy issues and how each candidate would handle them. 

rog: you’ve covered eco­nomics for the bbc and you’ve been an economist for the bank of england. how does the economy play into this election? 
OCR 
conTinued From page 1 
both complainants, serves as executive director of survJustice, a washington, d.c.-based nonprofit that offers free legal assistance to sexual violence survivors. in a phone conversation wednesday, dunn said the alleged per­petrator was dismissed from the university on disciplinary charges separate from her cli­ents’ sexual harassment and a student with multiple com­plaints is therefore likely to have separate hearings. if the accused student is found responsible for a conduct violation, outcomes for that complaint will be assigned, up to and including dismissal. The best interests of the over­all campus community may require implementing the dis­missal of a student before all pending charges can be fully resolved, especially where the student may pose a threat to the community.” 

gb: “it’s the economy, stu­
sexual violence complaints. brown said at the time the 

pid” was how bill clinton’s 
in a survJustice press re-complainant’s case was being 

campaign manager de­
lease sent to The observer on evaluated, the existing policy 

scribed the key factor driving  Tuesday, dunn said the sepa­ was not to conduct hearings  
the election in 1992. and that  rate charges led to the alleged  if the accused student was  
is still true today. while the  perpetrator being temporarily  no  longer enrolled.  he  said  

u.s. economy has grown over the last few years, growth has been disappointing for mil­lions of people, with stag­nant wages and a sense that technology and trade are destroying american jobs. while economic uncertainty and fear is understandable, it is important to try to sift fact from fiction, so helping voters understand the big changes at work in the global economy and how they affect them is a very important role for the Journal. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
dismissed, allowing him the option to apply to return to the university at a later date. 
“[The university] allowed an identified repeat perpetrator to avoid a Title iX hearing on campus that could have led to expulsion so he would retain the option to re-enroll later — that’s unacceptable,” dunn said in the release. 
brown said the university deals with separate complaints against a single respondent on an individual basis. 
“if more than one complaint is made against a student, each incident is thoroughly examined,” brown said. “ … 
that policy was amended last summer. 
“if a student is dismissed as the result of a hearing and ad­ditional conduct matters are pending, he or she would be subject to additional hearings immediately upon readmis­sion,” he said. “it is important to note, however, that read­mission to the university is not guaranteed.” 
Associate News Editor Kayla Mullen contributed to this report. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at  mhynds@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




Fulbright 
conTinued From page 1 
use your application materi­als to apply,” he said. “The first of those is the national science Foundation graduate research Fellowship and the second is the Fulbright program.” 
westrate, a Fulbright re­cipient himself, went to ukraine in 2010 and 2011 for the program. he was the only graduate student to go on the Fulbright that year. 
“having been a Fulbrighter myself, i can tell you that a year of research or study abroad is a life changing ex­perience,” westrate said. 
“Furthermore, doing that year abroad as a Fulbrighter is even more rewarding. you get to tap into the world’s largest international network of scholars.” 
westrate said this year notre dame has an award rate exactly equal to harvard, which is the top-producing Fulbright award university in the country. 
“notre dame students are some of the best students in the world, and when properly assisted they’re also some of the most successful students in the world,” westrate said. “other schools have much higher student populations and not only does it say that our students are successful, 

paid adverTisemenT 

but that our students apply at a much higher rate.” 
he said aside from the aca­demic opportunities that the Fulbright program offers its scholars, the professional and scholarly alumni network is yet another benefit. westrate said since the mid-1940s, the Fulbright program has brought between 10,000 and 12,000 students to the united states from all over the world. 
The instant students de­cide they might want to ap­ply for a Fulbright, they should meet with the center for undergraduate scholarly engagement (cuse), westrate said. 
kilker said the application process was writing intensive and having ties to the com­munity worked in the appli­cant’s favor. 
“The more you can do ahead of time to create those relationships and create that project idea, the sooner you can hit the ground running,” kilker said. “getting help from other people to read your materials and give you feedback makes your applica­tions so much better. be pre­pared to write and rewrite, five, six and seven times — it will be better each time.” 
 Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
Wikipedia 
conTinued From page 1 
intentionally, because it is only two hours, so we wanted to take that component out a bit,” smith said. “we’ve done research to help them jump off, so they’re not completely researched, but it’s enough to get them started.” 
some members of the black Faculty and staff association 
—
 who are co-sponsoring the event with hesburgh libraries 

—
 have also been trained by smith so they can plan and oversee these kind of events in the future. 


“The idea for this is to, hopefully, start something that will go on again,” smith said. “i’m trying to teach people how to do these types of events. i’ve been involved with a number of people throughout the community to help them do edit-a-thons since last spring. There was one on south bend, there was one at the civil rights 
heritage museum.”  
smith  organized  anoth­ 
er  edit-a-thon  last  spring  
that  was  centered  around  

the new york organization, art+Feminism. according to smith, wikipedia is “notori­ous for having editors who are mainly white males.” she said events like the nd black lives matter edit-a-thon are impor­tant to encourage people to participate in that culture. 
“This event is going to hopefully encourage people to become editors from a di­verse background — male and female and from diverse communities,” smith said. “i’m also trying to empower people, not only here at notre dame, but within the whole community, to highlight these ideas and people with­in our community and uplift them and empower them to understand the process that involves research.” 
smith said she’s hopeful that edit-a-thons will gain traction in the notre dame community. according to her, a few faculty members even approached her about incor­porating the process into their class curriculums. 
“it’s pretty easy to do, so it’s interesting to see how it can grow in the community,” she said. “i’m really excited about this and i really do hope that it spreads. i never expected that people would be so interested. i know things take time to grow, so hopefully i’ve plant­ed the seeds to make that hap­pen here at notre dame.” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

one last thank you 
Jack Rooney 
managing editor 

i began my term as managing editor while studying abroad in dublin last march. i watched from afar, entirely help­less and useless as my friends at the paper transitioned into their new roles while they covered the biggest story of their notre dame careers when Fr. hesburgh died. 
as much as i wanted to, i could not be there to help lay out the next day’s pa­per, nor conduct interviews for one of the many beautiful stories that followed Fr. hesburgh’s death. i could only keep in touch via email, offering encouragement and letting my friends know how proud i was. 
my friends here still make fun of me for those emails, which almost always ended with something like, “i’m so very proud of all of you!” but as admittedly cheesy and dad-like as those words were, i sit here at the end of my term unable to think of a better way to encapsulate how i feel about my four years at The observer. 
i remain so very proud that my col­leagues and i have worked so tirelessly to serve notre dame and saint mary’s over the past year. i take pride in the work we have done and the stories we have told. despite all this paper’s flaws and short­comings — the misspelled headlines, the layout goofs, the stories we missed — i am still satisfied with our end result. Through late nights that became early mornings and work acquaintances who have become lifelong friends, i can rest easy knowing my colleagues and i have given every last bit of energy and effort to this paper. 
in this way, the end of my term brings with it a certain sense of relief — no more late nights in the office or fretting over those layout mistakes. but more than any­thing, i feel an overwhelming gratitude to this paper and the people who work so hard to produce it every day. putting together a daily newspaper is almost al­ways a thankless task. it requires a truly miraculous amount of time, collaboration and deliberation, crammed in the midst of a student schedule. but we do it anyway, somehow. 
and, as my friend and (now former) boss greg hadley wrote last week, it was all worth it. it is nothing short of an honor to help tell the story of a place like notre dame. so, to everyone who makes it possi­ble for us to tell that story — our reporters, editors, staff members, advertisers, and most importantly, readers — thank you. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Saint Mary’s shadow 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 

i love saint mary’s. i love the campus, the profes­sors and the alumnae. i love the empowerment of a women’s education, of having a women’s space: i love going to mass with female lectors and acolytes and ministers, prayer services presided over by women and classes full of women raising their hands to dis­cuss. i love feeling safe as i walk across campus at night. i love the bond — the sisterhood — that con­nects the students here. it is a special place. a holy place. 
and yet in the last several months, as i approach my graduation and impending alumna-hood, i’ve become aware of a side of saint mary’s that i’ve never encoun­tered before. For all the light and joy i’ve seen at saint mary’s, i never noticed its shadow — until now. 
i’m not referring to the small frustrations and daily irritations that happen everywhere: the ordinary con­flicts between people that are quickly resolved and forgotten, the mistakes and misunderstandings of college-aged women. it’s not the paper-thin walls or the fact that we don’t get labor day off. it’s not even some of the more serious issues that have been raised lately: the imperfect sexual assault policy or the need for greater sustainability on campus. it doesn’t come from the administration or staff or faculty. it comes from the students. 
when actor, writer and activist anna deavere smith came to campus last week as part of the margaret hill endowed visiting artists series, she hosted a talk about diversity with students, faculty and staff mem­bers as well as a separate talk with members of the community downtown. i left with the grim realization that the warmth and positivity i’ve received at saint mary’s has not been offered to everyone. For some, it’s been the opposite. 
in that discussion i heard a student recall a recent event in which a white classmate used the n-word to her face. i heard a student remember how she’d been told as a first-year, again by a white student, that she “didn’t belong” at saint mary’s. i heard my classmates mention what i had uneasily noticed as well: that in the dining hall, white students and students of color rarely sit together; that in classes, students don’t know that certain terms like “colored” and “negro” are un­acceptable terms for academic papers; that students are afraid to bring up topics like abortion — topics that demand respectful discussion — for fear of being stigmatized as radical or dismissed as anti-feminist; that still no one has come forward about the anony­mous hate messages targeting an individual student and making the entire school suddenly unsure about who exactly their “sisters” really are. 
so who are we, saint mary’s? yes, we are a small school, predominantly white, predominantly catholic, with a lot of wealth and privilege and op­portunity making our education what it is. on paper, that’s what we are. but who are we? aren’t we 1,600 women of all colors and creeds, beliefs and back­grounds coming together to empower one another in a world that wants to pit us against each other? aren’t we belles, sisters, companions, classmates, friends, supporters and allies? 
but as long as even a few people write homophobic messages on our neighbors’ whiteboards; as long as even a few people casually use slurs against people of different races, abilities, genders, orientations and religions; so long as even a few people judge their peers by stereotypes they should be smart enough to dismiss; as long as even a few people refuse to ac­knowledge how their implicit biases and beliefs can harm and exclude others; as long as even a few people are comfortable making others feel unwelcome, we are bystanders. and if we are bystanders, if we are comfortable in a status quo that only protects the privileged and leaves an “other” to fend for herself, then we are not who i thought we were. 
we know how great it is to be a belle; we don’t need another article about that. it’s time to face our shadow: the exclusivity and superiority that allow discrimination, hatred and blatant disrespect in what otherwise is touted to be a supportive campus com­munity. it is our responsibility — not our choice — to defend, protect and listen to each other. all of each other. don’t wait for administrators, professors or security officers to teach you how to be decent to each other. don’t wait for someone to agree with you or live like you or look like you to treat her with the basics of respect. don’t wait for someone else to be the bigger person, to “welcome the stranger,” to spread the good news. Find the courage to be open to what you don’t know — ideas, opinions, and especially, people — and to defend it for others. That’s what college is about. That’s what this college is about. 
stand up. speak up. grow up. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

it is just a cigar 
on Feb. 29, stephen raab wrote an article criticizing knott hall and the knights of columbus for promoting the consumption of cigars to raise money for charity and commemorate the life of perhaps the most influential and greatest man to sit at the helm of this university. his main point being that cigars cause cancer and go against the principles of both organizations. 
This is ridiculous. if the author is concerned about the cancer-causing effects of smoking one cigar for one day of the year, he might as well never leave the house because the sun can cause cancer, never have a glass of cham­pagne or wine for celebration because alcohol causes cancer or wear a radiation suit before microwaving any food. 
raab falls victim to the slippery slope fallacy. does one day of smoking a cigar or two mean that soon “our campus [will go] up in smoke?” no. certainly not. should the tradition of pigging out on burgers and hotdogs while watching fireworks on the Fourth of July be stopped be­cause that unhealthy eating will lead to obesity and dam­age to the environment from firework smoke? no. 
sometimes we do wasteful or irresponsible things for celebration or commemoration. maybe the cigars that were smoked this past weekend were not good for my health, but even so, it was worth the reminiscence that was had on Fr. hesburgh’s life and accomplishments. 
Matthew Bartilotti 
alumni hall march 2 



so you want to write a column... 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

i’ve written observer columns for three years now. some columns have received a lot of posi­tive feedback, and some have — rightfully — endured considerable criticism. writing for the observer, or any paper, can be a great way to engage in the life of your community and to contribute to dialogue on a number of impor­tant issues. unfortunately, a lot of people who have good things to say can be ineffective when it comes to actually communicating their ideas. here are some things that i’ve learned from writing. 
First, it’s usually best to ditch your first para­graph. with only a few hundred words in a column, you don’t have room to ramble on or engage in a long wind-up. most writers are still working on how to frame their work as they’re writing the first sentences. i’ve found that, with most columns, cutting the first paragraph makes it punchier and more engaging. 
second, don’t try to say everything. you can’t pack a column like a clown car. don’t try to say everything to everyone. pick your strongest points, and make them well. 
Third, know to whom you’re writing. when you’re making an argument, this usually comes down to the question: are you writing to inspire your supporters while attacking your detrac­tors, or are you trying to thoughtfully engage with those who disagree with you? Few people can do both of these, and many people think they’re doing the latter when they’re actually doing the former. sometimes there’s value in be­ing a caricaturing polemicist. after all, the only way to gain Trump supporters is to be donald Trump. but make sure you know whether you’re Trumping or dialoguing. 
Fourth, make sure your paragraphs flow natu­rally from one to the next. read and reread each paragraph’s last sentence and the first sentence of the following paragraph. do these sentences follow each other, or are they distinct, discon­nected thoughts? if you only had these two sentences, would they make sense next to each other? in a column of a few hundred words, your first draft is likely to have at least two discon­nections. smooth them out, or cut one of them. 
Fifth, edit, edit, edit. after you write your first draft, put it away for a day and then read it again the next day. The less time you allow between drafting and publishing, the more likely you’ll publish something you’ll later regret. This re­gret is inevitable when you publish frequently enough, but don’t let the regret happen because you had a typo in the first sentence. i’ll always regret the published version of a 2012 column i wrote on race and the admissions process where i “walked about walking along the quiet beach…” (which makes no sense). 
sixth, don’t do the editing on your own. have some friends edit and critique your drafts. They’re going to see it anyway, and they’re going to have opinions when it’s published. you might as well get those opinions now and try to craft a piece that takes them into account. it can be very helpful to have friends who disagree with your viewpoint to edit and critique, especially if you’re hoping your column will engage with op­posing views. This can also help you learn the difference between what you’re writing and what people are reading. There can often be a big dif­ference, but you won’t know it unless you really engage with your readers. 
seventh, ask your friends before you write about them or the things they’ve said. if you start publishing your private conversations, even if you don’t include names, your friends will probably be less open with you. you’ll become more of a reporter than a friend. when it comes to personal relationships, avoid publishing with­out permission. 
Finally, understand that you are respon­sible for how you’re read. notre dame’s ralph mcinerny used to have over his desk: “no one owes you a reading.” if no one understands what you’re saying, don’t immediately conclude it’s just because you’re smarter than everyone else. even if you are smarter, you might be a terrible writer. but we all start out as terrible writers, and the only way to improve is to write. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence 
J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Make Canada great again 
Seamus Ronan 
guest columnist 

let’s all move to canada, eh? Think about it. canada is pretty great! ice hockey, Tim horton’s, Toronto, maple syrup, drake and ryan gosling. They’ve got a new, young, good-looking prime minister in Justin Trudeau. The human development index ranks canada ninth and among the highest in civil liberties, quality of life, economic freedom and education. They also have socialized health insurance that provides coverage to all canadian citizens, but hey, we all have our faults. 
canadians even want us to come to canada! They’re extending a warm, mittened hand of friendship. a canadian radio host, rob calabrese, created the website cbiftrumpwins. com, which stands for “cape breton if donald Trump wins.” on the website, calabrese writes, “hi americans! donald Trump may become the president of your country. if that happens, and you decide to get the hell out of there, might i suggest moving to cape breton island?” a quick search for cape breton island reveals a breath­taking island in nova scotia, complete with rolling hills, a lush landscape and cape breton highlands national park. it sounds tempting, doesn’t it? 
after super Tuesday, americans franti­cally googled “move to canada,” overwhelm­ing canada’s website for immigration and citizenship (cic). with donald Trump winning in seven out of 11 states, many americans were clearly petrified by democracy in action. and who can blame them? The 2016 election cycle has just been too much. The democratic candidate will either be an admitted democratic socialist or a woman who may have committed a crime. a rogue, incredibly anti-establishment business­man has based his campaign on building a bet­ter wall between the united states and mexico, verbal exchanges with pope Francis and rosie o’donnell jokes. his main opponent has com­pared anti-muslim bigotry to hating the new england patriots. i don’t like belichick either, but it has apparently been too much to bear for some. 
so, why wait? book that air canada ticket right now. Fill out those canadian study and work visas. call the estranged uncle living in saskatchewan and see if he has an open couch. let’s make edmonton great again! or winnipeg! run for the (cypress) hills! There is no other way. 
it is simply inconceivable to mobilize ourselves into responsible citizens. what’s the point of voting, anyway? it’s just one vote; it can’t make a difference. it would take too long to fill out an absentee ballot, anyway. it would just be so much easier to pack up and leave for the blue water bridge border crossing. This is no time for heroics, social change or political responsibility! restoring the moral fiber of this country takes quite a bit of work, you know; any engagement in political and civic life among students is too much to ask. There’s no need to participate in voter education, registration or mobilization. will going to an ndvotes ’16 event actually do anything? historically, mobilized university students have accomplished incredible things in this country, and there is an opportunity now to continue the noble tradition of student activism. or, instead, there is an opportunity to curl up in a log cabin in vancouver — with some ketchup chips, poutine and a labatt blue — and watch the leafs take on the canucks. much like Trump, it almost sounds too good to be true. 
Seamus Ronan is a senior political science, interna­tional peace studies major and Head Writer Emeritus for the Keenan Revue. He can be bothered at sronan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By NORA McGREEVY 
scene writer 

i’m only seven pages into “americanah,” the poignant and incisive novel by chimamanda ngozi adichie, when adichie delivers the first of many lines that strike me at my core: 
“it had been there for a while, an early morning disease of fatigue, a bleakness and borderlessness. it brought with it amorphous longings, shapeless desires, brief imaginary glints of other lives she could be living, that over months melded into a piercing homesickness.” 
These words describe ifemelu, the main character, and her longing to return to her home country of nigeria after a 15-year stay in the united states. adichie writes in vivid, poetic prose that reads as naturally as breathing. in this instance, as well as in all of “americanah,” she displays a power to capture uniquely nuanced emotions, demon­strating a keen sensitivity to the complexity of the human experience. 
adichie will give a lecture on her life and writings at the o’laughlin auditorium at saint mary’s this evening at 7:30 p.m. The event is sponsored in conjunction with the saint mary alumnae club’s “one book, one saint mary’s” initiative, which selected “americanah” as its book for the 2015-2016 school year. 
adichie’s lecture, like her writing, promises to stand out. since its publication in 2013, “americanah” has gar­nered overwhelmingly positive critical praise. it won the 2013 national book critics circle award in Fiction, npr named it a “great reads book,” and the new york Times included it in its 2013 Ten best books of the year. previous lectures of hers — including the Ted Talks “we should all 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene editor 

perseverance can mean many things. For andy cluxton, the drummer of the plucky prog-rock-funk outfit automagik, it means coming back to play a show at south bend’s well despite crashing the band’s van on the last trip out. undeterred, cluxton assured me in a recent phone interview that the cincinnati quartet aims at righting their previous transporta­tion faux pas. with a new batch of songs off the band’s splendid new ep, “dark daze,” it seems automajik is poised to do so. 
aptly describing automagik’s sound as “pop and roll,” cluxton cites his group’s eclectic energies as a key factor in their success. “we are all super influ­enced by a ton of different stuff and really nothing is off limits,” he explains. “it’s great to be that kind of band where you don’t have to stick to anything.” and he’s right — a quick listen through automagik’s limited anthology proves anything but boring. From the rchp “one hot minute”-era bass line in “pink champagne” to the swinging doo-wop intro of “rick rubin” and the twangy guitar licks of the 1970s’ psy­chedelic “pop kiss”, it’s clear that automagik has yet to find their sound — and that’s a good thing. SUSAN ZHU | The Observer be feminists” and “The danger of a single story” — have reached 2.6 million and 2 million views on youTube re­spectively — not to mention that beyoncé sampled “we should all be feminists” in her 2013 song “***Flawless,” released later that year.) 
what gives adichie’s words much of their power is her fearless ability to dole out empathy and searing criticism in equal measure. born in nigeria but educated in the united states, adichie writes with authority and acute sensitivity to issues of identity, especially racial and gen­der identity. in “americanah,” she focuses on the stories of ifemelu and obinze, a nigerian man and woman who are long-lost lovers — ifemelu traveled to america for school and post-doctoral education at princeton, and obinze moved to england as an undocumented worker before returning to nigeria. Their romance drives the arc of the plot forward; yet it’s the navigation of muddied ra­cial and social waters in america, england and nigeria that forms the bulk of the narrative for both characters. 
in each setting, across various continents, ifemelu and obinze remain outsiders. in england, obinze faces tri­als as an illegal worker and ultimately fails to succeed “in the harsh glare of life abroad.” in america, ifemelu struggles to find her place, highlighting the not-so-subtle distinctions between african americans and africans — distinctions many white americans disregard entirely. when she returns to nigeria, her friends write her off as an “americanah:” a pretentious pseudo-nigerian, with a nigerian heritage now distorted by “american eyes.” 
The love between obinze and ifemelu is inspired, in part, by the realization that both ifemelu and obinze feel most at home when they are together. when ifemelu rests her head against obinze’s shoulder, she registers a new 
The dynamism of automagik’s blend of pop is re­freshing. “it’s a nice a freedom we have until someone picks us up and tells us we have to play pop tunes,” cluxton jokes. while cluxton’s comment was certain­ly tongue in cheek, the claim still has merit. recently, there has been clear trend for indie pop bands — most obvious with indie super-group walk the moon — where the band decides to shed the creative process for a more formulaic approach, producing methodi­cally catchy hooks and listless lyrics. yet, i would be naïve to blame these “sell-out” indie pop groups. in a world continuously devaluing creativity and art, art­ists must find a way to make a buck. 
For automagik, the struggle between preserving the art and playing to the crowd for profit is a main theme on the automagik’s recently released “dark daze,” culminating on the bubbly abrasive “F***ed up.” The track features front man Zachary evans crooning, “i’ve forsaken my dreams in black leather,” before re­leasing an onslaught of chaotic, self-destructive mus­ings behind searing guitar chords and head-banging percussion. 
cluxton explained how it was this frustration that automagik channeled towards real growth from 2013’s one-dimensional “black sundae” to their cur­rent, more vibrant sound, stating that while “black phenomenon: “ ... a self-affection. he made her like her­self. with him, she was at ease; her skin felt as though it was her right size.” 
social criticism in “americanah” appears in var­ied forms. interspersed throughout the novel are ex­cerpts from ifemulu’s blog — “racenteenth or various observations about american blacks (Those Formerly known as negroes) by a non-american black” — that deal with her experiences head-on. “in america, trib­alism is alive and well.” Formidable images, such as ifemulu’s changing hairstyles, also speak volumes about her journey toward self-realization — when ifemelu de­cides to “relax” her natural texture, she laments “the smell of burning, of something organic dying which should not have died.” when she desires to keep her braids, her aunt warns her, “if you have braids, they will think you are unprofessional. … you are in a country that is not your own.” 
although adichie writes in specifics, the stories she shares don’t work to alienate her readers. This quality, not endemic to “americanah,” informs her whole body of work — her public writing and speeches consistently underline a shared humanity. in her 2009 Ted Talk, “The danger of a single story,” she said. “stories matter. many stories matter … when we reject the single story, when we realize that there is never a single story about any place, we regain a kind of paradise.” 
The event this Thursday is scheduled to last from 7:30 
p.m. to 9 p.m. Tickets cost $8 for adults, $7 for seniors and $6 for saint mary’s, notre dame and holy cross students. 
Contact Nora McGreevy at nmcgreev@nd.edu 
sundae is very carefree, punch(ing) you in the face with rock and roll power chords, the songs on ‘dark daze’ have a lot of heavy content and it’s just real and raw. it’s just a lot of raw emotion of frustration coming to the forefront, it’s definitely the next logical step.” 
lucky for us, it’s a step is in the right direction. “dark daze” is automagik’s best. The creative col­laboration of evans and lead guitarist devin williams blossoms in “dark daze,” producing more innovative productions and a new sonic confidence. 
Though frustration may bear creativity, cluxton ad­mitted to feeling the burden of this frustration from time to time. ultimately though, it’s all in days work. “For me it’s about doing what i really have felt that i’ve wanted to do my whole life,” cluxton affirms, adding that “the fact that we’re building towards something, it’s this ultimate belief that what we’re doing is right.” well said. 
catch automagik this tomorrow, march 4, at the well in south bend. The Quartet will join other indie rockers spaceships, leones and scanlines. music begins at 7 p.m., and while it’s a free show, donations are highly encouraged. come to celebrate the start of spring break, or better yet, the end of midterms. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 



By ADRIAN LORE 
scene writer 

venetian snares has been busy. The prolific electronic composer, who brought a semblance of notoriety to the breakcore genre he helped pioneer in the late 1990s and early 2000s, has slowed his output considerably in the past decade but not for lack of ideas. rather, as he made clear in an announcement to his fans in mid-2015, his output has stagnated under the pressure of “very seri­ous financial trouble.” but fortunately for aaron Funk, the man behind the project, his loyal fan base subse­quently flooded him with donations. maybe this means that Funk will not go the way of van gogh; certainly it has enabled him to return to the studio and release all-new music. Following last year’s quickly-assembled “Thank you for your consideration,” a free download that doubled as Funk’s token of gratitude to his benefac­tors, “Traditional synthesizer music” is the latest instal­lation in the venetian snares musical saga of electronic experimentation. 
This time around, Funk elected to produce an album solely through the use of modular synthesizers, to which the music owes its characteristic early-electronic sound. of course, this decision is hardly a creative obstruction 
— Funk has clearly tamed his instruments to work the usual wonders. indeed, the tracks on this lp are boun­cy, aggressive and hyperactive, and in terms of quality, Funk certainly does not disappoint. but he doesn’t quite 
By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

i’m generally skeptical of movie review aggrega­tors like rotten Tomatoes — quantitative measures like the algorithms applied by rotten Tomatoes rob our appreciation and understanding of the movies. There are moments, however, when sites like rotten Tomatoes are essential to understanding a movie. The release of robert eggers’ new horror movie, “The witch,” ushered in one of these moments. 
“The witch,” now playing in movie theaters nation­wide, holds an impressive approval score of 89 percent among critics. The corresponding fan-score is a mea­ger 53 percent. what could possibly account for this split reception? having seen “The witch” i understand why many moviegoers dislike it: its slow, the 17th cen­tury dialogue can be difficult to follow and there aren’t many jump-scares. so is “The witch” just a dull horror movie dressed up as a pretentious art house film? 
well, no, it isn’t. “The witch” is a fascinating install­ment in the horror canon, and it continues the genre-bending tradition of recent horror films like “The cabin in the woods,” “antichrist,” “The babadook” and “it Follows.” last Thursday i had the privilege of speaking with writer-director robert eggers, and one of the chief pleasures of the conversation was hearing his take on how “The witch” fits into horror. 
impress either. The sound of this lp doesn’t deviate from the project’s typical sound; it’s pleasantly familiar, but not exactly refreshing. 
This problem is not unique to Funk. indeed, to achieve a fresh sound using familiar techniques is the greatest hurdle that has kept many of the pioneers of the so-called idm umbrella genre from maintaining their relevance in the electronic landscape of today. boards of canada, once the poster boys of industrial downtempo, stuck to formu­la on their tepidly-received “The campfire headphase” in 2005 and retreated into obscurity soon thereafter. once one of underground electronica’s most prominent names, aphex Twin virtually disappeared after the flop of his uninspired lp “drukqs” in 2001. ambient house group The orb has precariously remained afloat amid ill-informed forays into reggae-infused techno. massive attack’s 2010 would-be comeback “heligoland” was haunted by the specter of their former glory. members of drexciya and lFo literally died, bringing those projects to a whimpering halt. of course, the list goes on. 
evidently, artists and even genres that cannot evolve (and this evolution could very well be wholly unortho­dox) with the times are set to become history. while boards of canada released the wonderfully alien “Tomorrow’s harvest” in 2013 and aphex Twin took the grammy for “syro” in 2015, many of the rest — venetian snares included — simply have not been able to revital­ize their sound for the new decade. so while “Traditional synthesizer music” would have been revolutionary 20 or 
“The witch” documents the misadventures of a family exiled to the massachusetts wilderness in the 1630s: babies are stolen, sibling rivalry hits old Testament lows and, of course, there is a witch hunt. eggers claimed that the film’s style — its quiet photog­raphy characterized by long, often stationary cameras and the film’s languid pace — was born not from a de­sire to be contrarian or pretentious, but from a genuine love of understated filmmaking. For one thing, eggers may not be familiar enough with contemporary hor­ror to react against it: “i don’t watch many contempo­rary horror movies,” he said. 
but don’t doubt eggers’ cinephilia — he professed his love of “slow, boring movies,” particularly those of ingmar bergman, carl Theodor dreyer and andrei Tarkovsky. indeed, as a meditation on religion and mortality among other themes, “The witch” evokes bergman’s “The seventh seal,” and eggers’ frequent use of long takes points to Tarkovsky’s “solaris.” 
For eggers, this is far from style for style’s sake, and he insisted, “working with my cinematographer and editor in the context of a horror movie, we hoped to use the long takes and slow pace to create and sustain tension and dread.” eggers’ claims ring true through­out the film, and especially at its climax, when he pres­ents an exorcism in an uninterrupted shot. writhing bodies, demonic shouts and biblical imagery populate the scene. in seamlessly transitioning from symbols even 15 years ago — in Funk’s heyday — today it quite passively recedes into the background, overtaken by the output of electronic frontrunners like oneohtrix point never, arca, Jlin and so on. 
i will always admire Funk’s artistic capabilities. This is the guy who gave modern classical music electro­shock therapy on “rossz csillag alatt született” — one of idm’s signature lps and a demonstration of music in one its most out-of-the-box forms. and i am sure that just as he did it once, he can do it again. but then again, “Traditional synthesizer music” is Funk “doing it again.” if projects like venetian snares are to thrive today, what they need to understand, rather, is that the world doesn’t want them to do it again. it wants to hear them innovate, work their magic in a wholly new and unexpected way. 
Contact Adrian Lore at asanchez11@nd.edu 
“Traditional Synthesizer Music” 
Venetian Snares 
Label: Timesig Tracks:  N/A If you like: Dntel, Boards of Canada, Ryoji Iyeda 

of childlike innocence to icons of original sin, eggers creates true terror. 
“The witch,” billed as “a new england Folktale,” is clearly a personal statement for eggers. a native of the area, eggers has always been fascinated by 17th century culture, particularly the salem witch trials. perhaps it’s no surprise that he asserts that the film’s central conceit is the idea that people in this moment in history perceived witches to be a very real threat, and that the film is ultimately an exploration of how that threat interacts with the intense puritanism of the time. 
ultimately, this level of authorship — the combi­nation of stylistic influences and deep-seated obses­sion with a particular set of themes — is what eggers’ thinks is missing from most contemporary horror movies … at least from the ones he has seen. “The rea­son ‘antichrist,’ ‘The babadook’ and ‘it Follows’ are so strong is because the filmmakers behind those mov­ies are clearly bringing a very personal vision to the screen,” he said, before going on to argue that the flip side of this coin is crass commercialization. “when you have a movie that is a product and is about formu­la rather than artistic form, when you’re merely trying to get someone to throw popcorn on his girlfriend us­ing jump-scares, is when this genre falls apart.” 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: handle whatever comes your way with grace, dignity and empathy. don’t give in to temptation or let anyone talk you into something that will lead to trouble. good choices aren’t always easy to make, especially when faced with peer pressure. use your intellect and do what’s best for you, even if it means moving forward alone. your numbers are 4, 12, 17, 24, 33, 38, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take time to treat yourself to something that will make you feel good and look good, as well as give you the incentive you need to forge ahead. romance is on the rise, and playful action with someone you love will bring you closer together. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll feel pressure if you oppose someone who has as much invested in a project or plan as you do. use friendly persuasion over brute force and you will find the compromise you need to keep moving forward. Teamwork will pay off. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen carefully. make sure you fully understand what’s expected of you before you commit. it’s ok to be friendly and to want everyone to like you, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you. Focus on self-improvements, not on helping others. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take control and make decisions based on your gut feelings. position yourself to be the nucleus of whatever endeavor you embark on, and you will make an impression and gain popularity among your peers. don’t be afraid to be different. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Target the problems that are looming, and offer a solution. Taking charge will bring about new interest from your superiors and could make you a hero in the eyes of your friends and family. romance is on the rise. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): gravitate toward the people who appreciate you and what you have to offer. look at the big picture, but don’t be too eager to put your cash into something you cannot control. Trust your instincts, not what someone else tells you. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): get out with friends or make plans with your significant other. any form of entertainment, travel or pampering will improve your attitude and give you the incentive to do your best in all aspects of life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you will face some opposition at home if you try to do things differently. do your best to keep your plans a secret until they are fully developed and hard to dispute. someone from your past will contribute to your success. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): venture down a path that will help you explore personal options regarding your skills, appearances and ways you can change the way you live to suit what you want out of life. romance is encouraged. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): it’s ok to do things differently. alter your routine and you will keep everyone guessing. a joint venture looks promising and can bring about a development that will improve a personal relationship or your current living arrangement. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Trust in your ability to make good decisions. if you get things done and express unique solutions, it will result in recognition and praise. a positive attitude combined with hard work will result in an unexpected surprise. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): put your energy into achieving your objectives. less talk and more action will help you avoid criticism. subtle changes in your approach will be your best and quickest route to success. avoid letting anger take over. 

Birthday Baby: you are charming, adventurous and playful. you are intelligent and impulsive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 

address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

MLB is better when Cubs are better 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
For a chicago sports fan like myself, there is a special thrill that always accompanies the closing days of February. despite the horrendous weather — which seems determined to lead us on every few days with another tantalizing sampling of spring before ruthlessly burying us be­neath a fresh wave of snow­fall — doing its best to ruin my mood, i must admit that the winter weather in south bend, indiana, becomes a little more bearable once march is around the corner. 
why is that? it’s because pitchers and catchers re­ported to spring training about a week ago. To me, that means winter is offi­cially over. baseball season is back, and i couldn’t be happier. 
To be honest, i don’t know whether my love of spring came before or after my love of baseball. perhaps it’s something of a pavlovian reaction at work; pair the turning of the season with the glee-inducing sights and sounds of the ballpark enough times, and eventu­ally, you’ll just get giddy at the slightest sign of the springtime. some of my fondest baseball memo­ries circle around spring training. after all, from the yearly enterprise of getting my little league gear in or­der after a winter spent col­lecting dust to my memories of making the long trek to arizona to watch the cubs play against a backdrop of dark mountains and green cacti, spring break always meant more than just a few days off of school. 
Today, though, spring training feels a bit different than it has in the past. as a cubs fan, i am in the unfa­miliar position of actually being excited for the results of the upcoming season. not that i haven’t been hopeful for good seasons in the past, but this year car­ries with it a certain set of expectations for what has become one of the young­est, most talented and most exciting teams in baseball. 
it’s a bit cliché to say that baseball is at its best when the cubs are good. and, to be honest, it’s a difficult claim to argue, since that would basically mean that baseball hasn’t been at its best in roughly 100 years. but honestly, i think that statement might hold true. That cubs fans are excited about the product the team is putting on the diamond of late comes as little sur­prise. what does strike me as interesting, though, are the number of fans of other teams — or even people who don’t claim to follow base­ball at all — that suddenly seem invested in the cubs’ quest to claim a pennant for the first time since the fall of the ottoman empire. 
more than merely a base­ball team, the cubs have become a cultural institu­tion in america — one that serves to foster baseball as both a sport and a brand when they are firing on all cylinders. 
There’s no telling whether the cubs will win anything at all this year. The baseball season is astronomically lengthy, and there is no predicting with any sort of accuracy what may or may not happen. still, for the first time in a long time, i get to look forward to seeing good baseball being played at the corner of addison and clark. 
i suppose i can’t speak for anyone else, but that’s more than enough to get me through the last dredges of winter with a smile on my face. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MEN’S GOLF 

irish to travel to alabama and Texas over break 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports writer 

notre dame competed in the national invitational Tournament two weeks ago at the catalina course of omni Tucson national in Tucson, arizona, and placed 13th out of the 14 teams com­peting, finishing 31 strokes behind the tournament win­ner, santa clara. 
irish head coach Jim kubinski said he and the team were not satisfied with their performance, as they failed to build on their progress in previous tournaments. 
“we’re disappointed we didn’t take any momentum from our second-place finish outside Tampa three weeks ago,” kubinski said. “we felt we could put ourselves in the mix here.” 
notre dame finished the tournament with a final score of 13-over par. on the first day of the tournament, the irish shot a one-over par 289, but failed to match or exceed that performance the next two days of the tournament. The irish shot a seven-over par 295 on the second day of the tournament before fol­lowing it up with a five-over par 293 on day three. 
individually, freshman ben albin finished tied for eighth place with a final score of five-under par. Juniors matthew rushton and blake barens finished tied for 41st and 48th with scores of five-over par and six-over par, re­spectively. rounding out the weekend for the irish were freshmen kevin connors and miguel delgado, who fin­ished tied for 64th and 76th at 11-over and 18-over par, respectively. 
although kubinski said the team’s performance fell short of expectations, albin’s play was one of the bright spots that the irish can take away from this weekend, he added. 
“ben played beautifully all week,” kubinski said. “he gave himself dozens of great birdie looks. he was probably a couple shots and putts from contending for the win. i’m both proud of his effort here and happy to see his hard work yielding strong results.” 
The irish will look for their upperclassmen to step up in their next tourna­ment, kubinski said. he also stressed the need for the golfers to shoot the scores that they have proved they’re able to hit on a more consis­tent basis. 
“we just need our capa­ble players to post scores,” kubinski said. “at this level, you need four scores each day. matt broke out today with a good round and blake played two of three this week­end. i’m confident miguel and kevin will hit their stride at auburn. This week was our first stroke play format since october. i expect more good scores next week.” 
notre dame has a quick turnaround, as the team will travel to compete in the Tiger invitational from march 6-8 at grand national lake course in opelika, alabama, before follow­ing that with the border olympics from march 11-12 at laredo country club in laredo, Texas. 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at riannell@nd.edu 
SMC LACROSSE 

belles hope to build on last season’s success 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 

although 2016 will only be saint mary’s third year with a varsity lacrosse program, the team has improved over its short history. in the the belles’ second season, they more than doubled their win total from their first and finished last season with a 7-10 record. according to belles head coach amy long, the team is looking to make similar progress this season. 
“our team did make a huge amount of progress during our second year, and i expect an even larger amount of growth this season,” long said. 
one of the characteristics of this year’s team is its youth. after only losing a few seniors, the team will be captained led by three juniors: katlynn dee, emilie vanneste and shannon weyer. The belles also return six of their seven leading scor­ers from last year. on top of retaining the majority of the team, the belles have added six new members to the roster. as a result, long says that team-building has been a major focal point of preseason training. 
“Throughout our preseason, we have focused on working to­gether and the development of our offensive unit and our de­fensive unit,” long said. “with six new players and four play­ers who were abroad during our fall season, we have placed an emphasis on building relation­ships and communication to ensure we are working together as a team effectively. we have also been paying special atten­tion to the small details of many of our basic lacrosse skills to create consistency, as these lit­tle things will be the difference maker in many of our games.” 
while other teams and coaches might consider fielding such a young team to be a risk, long expects the team to main­tain a high caliber of play. 
“emilie vanneste and katlynn dee were our pro­gram’s first all-miaa selec­tions, and i have even higher expectations for them this season,” long said. “vanneste along with [sophomore] clare Theisen will lead our offense and midfield. dee will continue to have an important role as a main leader for our defense and our two goalies, shannon weyer and [freshman] cara givens who will also serve as vocal leaders.” 
The belles are looking to ex­pand upon their reputation for strong defense this season. last season, weyer had 120 saves as goalkeeper last season and the belles totaled 185 caused turnovers. 
on top of sustaining its strong defense, the saint mary’s la­crosse team has optimistic hopes for the season as a whole. as long outlined, the team hopes to both start and finish the season in a strong manner. 
“our team goals include coming back from our spring break training trip to hilton head with at least one win and qualifying for our conference tournament this season,” long said. “more than qualifying for the miaa tournament which is accomplished through a top-four finish, our goal is to win at least six of our eight conference games to earn a home game in the tournament.” 
The belles will embark on their season during their spring break trip from march 5 to march 13, when they will travel to hilton head, south carolina, to take on shenandoah, elms and bryn mawr. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 


ND SOFTBALL 

ND puts winning streak on the line in Florida 

paid adverTisemenT 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 21 notre dame will return to Florida this weekend to compete in the Four points by sheraton spring break classic hosted by Florida gulf coast in Fort myers. 
The irish (12-3) spent this past weekend in kissimmee, Florida, playing in the diamond 9 citrus classic. in five games, the team swept its competition and out­scored their opponents, 33-6. 
This weekend, the irish will play four more nonconference games before their regular weekend slate of acc games gets underway. on saturday, notre dame will face stony brook and host Florida gulf coast. Then, on sunday, the team will battle stony brook for a sec­ond time before finishing their weekend against ball state. 
The irish will carry their eight-game winning streak into the weekend, which includes wins over no. 13 ucla and no. 25 ucF. during this streak, the irish line­up is averaging over seven runs per game, while the pitching staff is holding opponents to less than two runs per game. 
The offensive success has largely been an all-around, team effort for the irish this season, as the team has nine players batting over .300 and a team average of .359, which is currently the 16th best mark in the country. Junior outfielder karley wester has been particularly effective at the top of the lineup, as she leads the team with 19 runs, 29 hits and a .492 average. The freshmen class has made its impact felt as well, as third baseman melissa rochford, outfielder ali wester and pitcher caitlyn brooks all have averages of .390 or better. 
The pitching staff has also be­gun to find its form on the field during this winning streak. Junior rachel nasland leads the rotation with a 1.22 earned-run average, while senior allie rhodes has a team-high five wins. rhodes also sports an era of 2.84 and leads the staff with 58 strikeouts in un­der 50 innings pitched. while no other pitcher has an era under three, the rotation has shown improvement in the last eight games. each pitcher saw her era drop last weekend, and sopho­more katie beriont saw the most improvement after throwing a one-hit shutout against bryant on saturday. 
stony brook (4-6) has strug­gled offensively this season, with their team average of .220. The seawolves have been carried by senior catcher allie pisciotta, who is the only member on the team batting over .310, and she leads stony brook in eight offensive categories. The seawolves are also led by a senior on the mound, as Jane sallen has five complete games in six starts and a 3.10 era. 

Florida gulf coast (9-5) carries an eight game winning streak of its own into the weekend, with six of those wins coming over oakland and sacred heart last weekend. offensively, freshman first baseman racquel Fournet leads Florida gulf coast in seven offensive categories. The strength of the team, however, is its pitch­ing staff. in 14 games this season, the eagles’ staff holds an era of 2.38, which ranks 49th amongst division 1 teams. 
ball state (8-6) also carries an extended winning streak into play this weekend, having won its last six games. The cardinals have won primarily behind the strength of their lineup, which features three players hitting at least .400. They also boast power in their lineup, as five hitters have better than a .500 slugging per­centage. Their rotation has strug­gled thus far, however, as their staff era is 6.94 and opposing lineups sport a .330 batting aver­age against them. 
notre dame will first take the field this weekend saturday at 
1:15 p.m. when they battle stony brook at Fgcu softball complex in Fort myers, Florida. 




ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish to host Clover Cup over spring break 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
during spring break, notre dame will be busy as the irish host the clover cup in mesa, arizona, at longbow golf club. 
The irish opened their spring campaign two weeks ago at the westbrook spring invitational, where the team finished sixth among a field of 15 teams. despite drop­ping four strokes in the fi­nal three holes on the last day of the tournament, irish head coach susan holt said she feels her team is ahead of where it should be at this point in the season, and is focused on improving as the clover cup approaches. 
“after the tournament, they all had their own areas they needed to work on, so we’ve had a really good couple of weeks of practice,” holt said. “i was happy with the overall play from the tournament, i mean first tournament out and we played really well and shot below our stroke aver­age for the year and there were a lot of positives. i feel like we’re ahead of the curve as far as preparations from where we would normally be this time of year.” 
holt also said she is excited to host the clover cup and plans to get in multiple prac­tice rounds before the tour­nament begins. 
“i’m excited for the tourna­ment in arizona, especially since it’s a tournament we host and there’s a lot to do with all of that and with the planning,” holt said. “i think we are in pretty good shape. we are going to get out there on saturday so we are actu­ally going to get four practice rounds in before the event and have four solid days of practice and play so i think we will be ready to go once the tournament starts.” 

led by senior captain Talia campbell, who finished in ninth at the westbrook spring invitational, the no. 25 irish will compete against a field that includes Tcu, smu, oklahoma, Tulsa and arizona state, among others. holt said the team will rely on the freshmen trio of isabella dilisio, emma albrecht and maddie hamilton, who came in ninth, 33rd and 48th re­spectively in the westbrook invitational, to perform well again. entering the tour­nament, holt said the irish expect to face stiff compe­tition from smu, Tcu and oklahoma. 
“well based on the rank­ings, i mean, we are the best ranked team in the field,” she said. “smu, they beat us by one shot at the last tourna­ment we played in and they are ranked right behind us so i think they are our most immediate competition. There’s also Tcu — they’re a good team — oklahoma, so i think us and those three teams will probably be in contention come the last day.” 
“[The freshmen] have cer­tainly been a big part of our success,” holt said. “i thought all three played re­ally well in the first event of the spring and i’m just look­ing for them to continue their good play.” 
sophomore kari bellville and junior Jordan Ferreira will also be important fac­tors in the contest. bellville finished tied for 79th at the westbrook spring invitational with a 15-over par 231, while Ferreira tied for 56th place with an eight-over par score of 224. holt said she likes her team’s depth and that the team’s busy schedule will allow it to improve rapidly as the spring season picks up. 
“we’ve had really good team depth and team effort all year and we’re going to re­ally need that to continue as we move through our spring schedule,” holt said. “we have big goals and i think this team is good enough to do some really special things this spring. we’re just excited to get things going, because when we play three tour­naments in a month, we’re gonna be super busy. but i’m also excited for the fact that i think our weather is going start turning once we get back. it’s supposed to be in the 50s and 60s which means we should be able to get out­side and practice here, which is huge as well.” 
The irish tee-off march 11 in mesa, arizona, for the clover cup. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
that night. notre dame then held off a late charge from the Terriers (19-10-5, 12-6-4) on saturday night to clinch the third seed with a 1-0 victory on senior night at compton Family ice arena. 
The 1-0 win in the final game of the season for the 

irish  snapped  the  team’s  
three-game  losing  streak  
entering  saturday  night’s  
action.  

notre dame found success against both northeastern and maine during the regu­lar season. The huskies vis­ited compton Family ice arena on nov. 12 and 13, when notre dame won the first night’s contest 3-2, and then the two teams skated to a 2-2 tie the following night. 
The irish swept the black bears when maine visited south bend exactly three months later, Feb. 12 and 13. notre dame took Friday’s contest 4-1 while triumph­ing again 5-1 in saturday night’s matchup. 
sophomore goaltender cal petersen started every regu­lar season game in net for the irish, allowing just 2.08 goals against per game while posting a .932 save percent­age. petersen was named a mike richter award nomi­nee last Friday and currently leads the ncaa in saves with 
970. no other goaltender has more than 900 (st. lawrence sophomore netminder kyle hayton is second with 880). 
petersen posted his first shutout of the season in saturday night’s 1-0 win over bu, but after the game he said it was more impor­tant for the team to build momentum heading into the postseason with a high-quality win. 
“That was a total playoff game,” petersen said follow­ing saturday night’s win. “ … They were battling for their playoff lives, and we were too, even though we had that bye. we need to put ourselves in the best posi­tion to be successful and to reach one of our goals: going to boston garden. 
“That was a playoff game for both teams, and i think it showed.” 
sophomore center Jake evans leads the irish with 32 points this season (eight goals and 24 assists), but notre dame boasts one of the most balanced offenses in the country. seven play­ers have registered more than 20 points and the team boasts 12 skaters with at least 10 points. senior center Thomas dipauli has a team-high 12 goals while left wings sophomore anders bjork (11) and seniors mario lucia and sam herr and freshman dylan malmquist 
(10) have also hit double-digits in the goal category. 
The irish pulled off a sur­prise run to the hockey east semifinals in boston during its first season in the confer­ence in 2014 after defeating bu in a single-game elimi­nation series in the first round and then winning two games on the road against boston college in a best-of­three series. 
notre dame reached the second round of the hockey east playoffs last season, defeating massachusetts in a three-game series at compton Family ice arena before falling to umass­lowell in three games. 
The winner of the series between notre dame and ei­ther northeastern or maine will advance to the semifi­nals of this season’s confer­ence tournament held at Td garden in boston. puck drop for game 1 will be march 11 at 7:35 p.m. while games 2 and 3 (if necessary) will start at 7:05 p.m. the fol­lowing nights at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


KELLY VAUGHAN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore goalie Cal Petersen protects the net during Notre Dame’s 3-2 loss to Boston University on Feb. 26 at home. 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 

the no. 5 cardinals (5-2) in a three-game series, kick­ing off acc play for both squads. 
“This weekend, alabama’s an sec team with a lot of potential, and louisville is ranked pretty high in the polls across most of col­lege baseball,” smoyer said. “To have those teams this early is challenging, but it also puts the task upon us to raise our level of com­mitment as far as our work goes day to day. The focus we put into our preparation with those kinds of teams is a great challenge that we’re ready to take on, and, espe­cially with the talent those teams bring, it’s going be a great test to see what we’re made of right away. hopefully down the road it helps us out.” 
Following the end of the a stressful midterms week, smoyer said being able to focus on baseball should help the team gel early in the season. 
“we’re gonna be travel-ling a lot over spring break,” smoyer said. “we have a little bit of a bus ride from north carolina to kentucky when we’re in between those two weekend series, but for our routine it doesn’t really change much. … it’s just a little more down time. guys get to kind of hang out and decompress from the stress of the academics that have been hitting us at the end of this half of the semester. it kind of gives us that men­tal break and allows us to focus on something other than academics for a little while.” 
The irish will play sev­en road games over break before returning for their home opener against Toledo on march 16. 
The usa baseball-irish classic gets under way Friday evening as notre dame faces alabama in cary, north carolina. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 


Irish junior Ryan Smoyer pitches during Notre Dame’s 8-3 win over Central Michigan on March 18 at Frank Eck Stadium. Smoyer is currently leading Notre Dame with a 1.35 ERA through seven games. 
paid adverTisemenT 




W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
seed virginia. This season, the irish edged the blue devils (19-11, 8-8) on the road Feb. 1, 68-61, and blew past the cavaliers (16-14, 6-10) on Jan. 7, 74-46. 
notre dame then would most likely play no. 4 seed Florida state in the semifi­nals, followed by either no. 2 seed louisville or no. 3 seed syracuse in the cham­pionship game. 
“we’ve got a tough, tough draw with duke ending up in the 8/9 game, which 
— nobody expected that,” mcgraw said. “Florida state was picked to finish second, finishes fourth, and then louisville and syracuse in the other games, so it looks like we’re played what were originally the top three teams in the league each round, if we can advance. 
“and that is gonna be a big question for us. i think this is the toughest draw, and we’ve gotta be ready. duke really will be ready for us, and everybody will be. everybody’s trying to knock us off and make their seed in the ncaa tourna­ment a little better, so we’ve gotta be ready.” 
mcgraw said she has no­ticed her players, especially the younger ones, lose fo­cus in the second halves of games recently, a trend her veteran leaders add they’ve seen as well and need to correct if they want to cap­ture their third consecutive tournament title. 

“us, as upperclassmen, we’ve got to set that mental­ity,” senior guard michaela mabrey said. “it’s not a game. it is possible for us to lose. i know that they [the freshmen] might not think that that’s a thing, but it is. i think just setting the tone of being really mentally and physically focused.” 
Joining mabrey in the starting lineup will the be usual group of junior guard lindsay allen, gradu­ate student guard madison cable and sophomore for­ward brianna Turner, all three of whom were named Tuesday to the 10-player all-acc first team, while Turner earned the confer­ence’s defensive player of the year award wednesday. 
however, the fifth spot is still up in the air, as usual starting forward kathryn westbeld has not played since suffering an ankle in­jury against Florida state on Feb. 22, and she has not participated in practice through Tuesday of this week. 
mcgraw said westbeld is “probable” for Friday’s game, adding she hoped to have her back in practice by Thursday. 
“we’re a little thin in the post, and without kat late­ly, it’s seemed even worse,” mcgraw said. “i like the 
paid adverTisemenT 
four-guard look, but we play a couple of teams that have a lot of big guys, so it’s difficult to go four guards against some of them, so i think subbing is goings to be really key. we’re going to really need the fresh­men to be ready; we’re go­ing to need koko [junior forward kristina nelson] and [junior forward] diamond [Thompson] and [sophomore guard] mychal Johnson; we’re going to need everybody, so every­body has to be able to come in for three or four minutes and give somebody a spell and give them a rest.” 
Fortunately for mcgraw, the freshmen she’s tasked with being ready for the tournament are two of the conference’s best: both marina mabrey and arike ogunbowale were selected for the acc all-Freshman team Tuesday. 
with a target on their back, the irish will open the acc tournament on Friday at 2 p.m. against either duke or virginia, with pos­sible semifinal and final-round games to take place saturday and sunday, re­spectively. all matchups will be held at the greensboro coliseum in greensboro, north carolina, and the tournament’s winner will secure an automatic bid to the ncaa tournament. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
leading scorer and junior guard demetrius Jackson starting the game 2-for-11 from the field while junior guard steve vasturia missed all nine of his shot attempts. 
“when your guards can’t get going like that — and i love my guards, and our guards have been key — we 
won’t  beat  many  teams,”  
brey said.  
The  irish  were  able  to  

bounce back to a degree, at one point closing the gap to 29-22 late in the first half with an 8-0 run. The hurricanes would coun­ter with a 6-0 run, however, making the halftime deficit 
13. notre dame would only get within nine points from that point on. 
“we gave ourselves chanc­es,” brey said. “it would have been interesting to see how the second half would have been if we didn’t turn it over three times in the last three minutes, when you’re get­ting a bit of momentum.” 
senior forward Zach auguste led the way for the irish, finishing the night with 18 points and 11 re­bounds. with just under 10 minutes to play, auguste and sophomore forward bonzie colson had 25 of notre dame’s 38 points. 
“i thought Zach auguste, again, in an ugly afternoon was just a warrior,” brey said. “he’s been flat-out fabulous.” 
with the win, the hurricanes tied no. 8 north carolina atop the acc stand­ings. They were led by se­nior guard angel rodriguez with 19 points. senior guard sheldon mcclellan added 17 points while senior forward Tonye Jekiri was good for 14 points and nine rebounds. 
despite the loss, notre dame can still earn a double bye in the acc tournament next week. with pittsburgh’s loss to virginia Tech wednesday night, the irish now just need a win and a duke loss to north carolina on saturday. 
looking to salvage the double bye, notre dame now looks to its saturday mati­nee tilt with north carolina state. 
nc state (15-15, 4-12) has struggled this season after notching 22 wins last sea­son and reaching the sweet sixteen. despite their poor showing on the year, the wolfpack did upset miami on Jan. 30. 
The wolfpack are led by ju­nior guard anthony barber, who has scored 30 or more points eight times this year on his way to averaging 23.2 points, 4.6 rebounds and 4.4 assists per game. outside of barber, the wolfpack have threats in freshman guard maverick rowan (12.7 ppg), sophomore forward abdul­malik abu (12.6 ppg, 8.6 rpg) and freshman guard caleb martin (11.3 ppg). 
“saturday, i want it bad for Zach and [senior forward 
a.J. burgett],” brey said. “… i’d love to win for them and have a little juice going into d.c.” 
Tip-off is scheduled for noon saturday. 
after senior day, notre dame will have a few days off before the acc tourna­ment begins Tuesday. The irish will either play their first game wednesday in the second round or Thursday in the quarterfinals. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 

KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 
Zach Auguste attempts a free throw during Notre Dame’s 68-50 loss to No. 7 Miami on Wednesday at Purcell Pavilion. 



MEN’S BASKETBALL | miami 68, nd 50 
Notre Dame’s offensive struggles continue at home 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no. 7 miami dominated notre dame from the open­ing tip at purcell pavilion on its way to a 68-50 victory over the irish. 
The hurricanes (24-5, 13-4 acc) scored the first 12 points of the game and jumped out to a 21-3 lead just over six minutes into the game. 
“i wouldn’t be surprised if they win the national cham­pionship, first of all,” irish head coach mike brey said. “They’re really good. and they’re really old and their men were playing against our boys i thought most of the night. we can’t get off to a start like that and try and dig out of a hole against a team like that.” 
notre dame (19-10, 10-7 acc) never looked comfort­able during the game, with 
see m bball PAGE 15 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
irish aim for third straight title 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
whenever no. 2 notre dame takes the court at purcell pavilion, the stands are packed, most of the time at almost full capacity, with fans decked out in blue, gold and the ubiquitous lime green. 
but when the irish go down to greensboro, north carolina, for this weekend’s acc tournament as the con­ference’s top seed, they’re not expecting that same kind of friendly reception. 
“The welcoming commit­tee gets smaller and small­er every year we go down there, and i think that we’ll have a lot of people cheering against us,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think that they’d like to see some of the familiar teams win, and so it’ll be good for us to really get motivated to be ready.” 
There will be plenty of teams eager to knock off the top-seeded irish (28-1, 16-0 acc), with plenty rea­son: in just three seasons in the conference, notre dame has collected three outright regular-season ti­tles, two conference tourna­ment rings and amassed a 47-1 acc record, along with all but locking in a no. 1 seed in the upcoming ncaa tournament. 
on paper, it might not look like the irish have much to be challenged by, espe­cially after sweeping acc competition with a perfect 16-0 record this season. but that’s not how mcgraw, who was named this season’s acc coach of the year on wednesday, and her team see it. 
They’ll open the tourna­ment Friday with a match-up against the winner of Thursday’s game between no. 8 seed duke and no. 9 
see w bball PAGE 15 
BASEBALL 

squad travels to north carolina 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
after taking three of four games at the alamo irish classic last weekend, notre dame heads into spring break looking to build on its newfound momentum. 
Junior righty ryan smoyer, who has opened the sea­son with a 1.35 era in two starts, said the way his team was able to win two close games last weekend should give them confidence head­ing into a tough stretch. 
“it’s great, especially the comebacks — those walk-offs,” smoyer said. “The game where we gave up the lead late and were able to battle back and grab that win is huge. it really gives the pitching staff confidence to know that we can come back and get bailed out by our hitters. They did a great job all weekend at having re­ally good at-bats. 
“especially in the begin­ning of the season, it just seems like the bats across college baseball are a little behind. To know that we have that kind of sup­port behind us, not only in the field but at the plate is a great feeling.” 
over the first weekend of break, the irish (4-3) hit the road for the usa baseball­irish classic in cary, north carolina, at the usa baseball national Training complex. 
notre dame will face op­ponents from four different conferences at the classic, including alabama (7-1) on Friday, brown (0-0) and bucknell (4-3) in a saturday doubleheader and niagara (2-8) to conclude the classic on sunday morning. 
while each of these teams will present a specific challenge to the irish, the crimson Tide, who have won their last six games, will ar­guably be their toughest opponent. 
Then, following the con­clusion of the usa baseball irish classic, the irish will head to louisville the fol­lowing weekend to take on 
see baseball PAGE 14 
HOCKEY 

ND turns focus toward Hockey East tournament 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 

after clinching the third seed in the hockey east playoffs last weekend, no. 10 notre dame will host a best-of-three series next weekend against either northeastern or maine in the second round of the conference tournament. 
The irish (19-8-7, 15-5-2 hockey east) earned a bye during the first round of the playoffs because they clinched a top-four fin­ish in the conference dur­ing the regular season. notre dame will meet the winner of a best-of-three series between the sixth-seeded huskies (16-13-5, 10-8-4) and the 11th-seed­ed black bears (8-22-6, 5-15-2) at northeastern’s matthews arena this weekend. 
The irish clinched a first-round bye last Friday despite losing to no. 9 boston university, 3-2, 
see hockey PAGE 14 





