The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 96 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
President Mooney leaves 12-year legacy 
Saint Mary’s leader reflects on her tenure at the helm of the College as she prepares to reitre in May 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
during her her twelve-year presidency, president carol ann mooney accomplished many things, including the successful capital campaign “Faith always, action now,” launching gradu­ate programs, increasing diver­sity, the voices of young catholic women project, the presidential Taskforce on sexual assault and many other projects and initiatives. 
mooney said she has always loved to interact with students since taking office June 1, 2004. 
“it’s certainly the students i will miss the most,” she said. “i only get to know a few really well, but i have the opportunity to interact with quite a few, and what i really enjoy is seeing the people they become at the end of their four years here. whatever else we do, if at the end of four years they are people we’re proud of, then everything is worth it.” 

she said she is continuously impressed not just by the stu­dents’ accomplishments and confidence, but their goodness and sense of purpose. “it feeds my soul,” she said. 
when the college launched the capital campaign, “Faith always, action now,” in 2008, the recession wasn’t fully realized. mooney said many doubted that the college would achieve her ambitious goal of $80 million, 

see mooney PAGE 5 LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



University hosts annual Junior Parents Weekend 

By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
continuing a treasured notre dame tradition, the class of 2017 welcomed their parents to campus for the university’s an­nual Junior parents weekend (Jpw). 
The event takes nearly a year of planning so madi purrenhage and Tommy yemc 
— current sophomores and co-chairs of next year’s Jpw — started in their roles this past weekend. 
“For the past month, we’ve been mostly shadowing, learning how to plan and all that,” purrenhage said. “abby [radomsky], who is the chair for this year, along with her team of commissioners, has been planning this for about a year, but we want them to be able to enjoy the weekend so we do a lot of the leg work on the actual weekend itself.” 
see Jpw PAGE 4 


visiting artist conducts workshops at saint mary’s 
By MARTHA REILLY and NICOLE CARATAS 
news writers 

anna deavere smith, known for her roles on “The west wing” and “nurse Jackie,” hosted act­ing and playwriting workshops at saint mary’s over the weekend, teaching participants that before they can run to a curtain call, they have to learn how to break a leg. 
smith said actors should block out distractions while they listen closely to their stage partners’ scripts and observe their gestures. 
“it is really about being present with the other, and that’s the first step,” smith said. “you have to ask yourself, ‘what are the things that keep me from being present?’” 
Through devoting complete at­tention to a scene, actors can best emulate reality, she said. 
“i think that at a certain point while i’m rehearsing and perform­ing, there could be something about that person that knocks on the door of my subconscious,” smith said. “i’m not interested in that. i’m asking you today to free yourselves from that idea. i want you to think about what it means to focus on the other. so why not explore that other land that has absolutely nothing to do with you whatsoever?” 
smith said actors can make a greater impression on audience members if they take a natural approach, allowing themselves to experience every emotion the scene demands. 
“you shouldn’t underestimate how much you can actually ab­sorb if you are really listening,” 
see workshop PAGE 5 


Labor café focuses on art 
By MEGHAN SULLIVAN 
news writer 

last Friday, members of the labor café, a biweekly event host­ed by the higgins labor studies program to foster discussion on work, inequality and social justice issues, met at the snite museum of art to discuss henry mosler’s “Forging the cross.” bridget hoyt, curator of education at the snite, led the discussion. 
“we do these single-work exhi­bitions once in a while in order to show that the meaning of a work of art is fixed, and in fact, it’s in dialogue by all of us,” hoyt said. 
“Forging the cross,” the focus of the discussion, is a painting of craftsmen laboring over an iron cross with a priest nearby and community members in the background. much of the discus­sion was centered on the labor component of the piece. 
“although this is work, it is not private work. it is work that has a public dimension … it’s not just that the workers are exerting themselves, but that they’re do­ing so for these people who are waiting for their product,” kevin christiano, professor of sociology, said. 
hoyt then focused the discus­sion onto the possible class 
see labor PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney                       cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What would your patronus be? 

Allie Kroehler 
junior 
le mans hall 
“penguin.” 
Jasmine Salazar 
junior 
le mans hall 
“dolphin.” 
Bridget Packey 
junior 
le mans hall 
“german shepard.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Jackie Schramm 
junior le mans hall 
“owl.” 
Emily Crimmins 
junior le mans hall 
“guinea pig.” 
Michael Antipas 
freshman Zahm hall 
“moose.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

rachel o’grady ben padanilam alex winegar victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lauren weldon miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Getting Started in Nonprofit Breakfast Lecture ND Women’s “Flint: Water, Race 
caitlyn Jordan claire radler 

Research” Series Geddes Hall Basketball vs. Clemson and Accountability” Brownson Hall Mendoza College of 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Purcell Pavilion Law School 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Business “Fair Use in the 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Workshop on initiating 7 a.m.-9:30 a.m. Academic Environment: The Irish take on the Lecture presented by 
The observer regards itself as a project on campus. Overview of wages. A Scholar’s Primer.” Tigers. Julie Hurwitz. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
An Evening with Bengal Bouts Sorin Scholars Fr. Ted Talk Hockey vs. BU 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Anna Deavere Smith Semifinals Lecture Recker’s Restaurant Compton Family Ice 
however, recognize that we will make 
O’Laughlin Auditorium Joyce Center Hesburgh Library South Dining Hall Arena 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30 pm-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 8:30 pm-9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Performance on the Funds benefit Missions Featuring Professor Professor Daniel The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

narrative of Ferguson. in Bangladesh. Carl Ackermann. Lapsley will present. Terriers. 


Lecturer highlights modern entrepreneurship 
By JP GSCHWIND news writer  
entrepreneurship inmodern economy has damentally changed   the fun-the  

business models of tradi­tional corporate giants like general electric (ge), ac­cording to viv goldstein, the global director of innovation acceleration at ge. 
goldstein gave a talk in the Jordan auditorium of the mendoza college of business on Friday morning. The lec­ture was part of the Ten years hence lecture series that aims to “explore issues, ideas and trends likely to af­fect business and society over the next decade,” accord­ing to mendoza college of business’s website. 
goldstein said the lessons manifest in the success of startups have transformed ge’s mindset. 
“you’ve got to drive change and this change has to be constant,” she said. 
it may be tempting, goldstein said, to reduce the importance of entrepreneur­ship to simply technology, but the principles behind the silicon valley paradigm are much more far-reaching. 
“change is no longer just about technology, because the world of business and the world of innovation [are] changing,” goldstein said, 
goldstein said the contrast between the prevailing busi­ness models at the end of the 20th century and those of today profoundly emphasize this change. 
“if you look back 20 years at some of the largest, most successful companies, they grew through productivity 

“Change is no longer just about technology, because the world of business and the world of innovation [are] changing.” 
Viv Goldstien 
Global Director of Innovation 
General Electric 

which basically means they did things faster, better and cheaper,” goldstein said. 
goldstein said ge was a per­fect example of this during the welch era, from 1981-2001 when Jack welch served as ceo of ge, as an interna­tional giant that continually and incrementally improved cost and efficiency to remain dominant in the marketplace. however, goldstein said this strategy is untenable in the modern dynamic economy. 
“you’ve got these indus­tries that have huge barriers to entry like motor vehicles and then you look at Tesla,” goldstein said. 
in almost every area of the economy, goldstein said, startups can now quickly ri­val well-entrenched mono­liths that were previously unchallenged. goldstein said this is due in large part to the decreasing importance of physical capital like factories, equipment and inventory. 
“if you look at some of the 
paid adverTisemenT 


unicorns, the billion dollar startups, there is not one sin­gle physical asset,” 
airbnb is a prominent ex­ample of this phenomenon, goldstein said, because it achieved a multi-billion dol­lar valuation by offering a service and has no significant tangible, physical assets. 
goldstein said ge has ad­opted a number of policies in order to adapt to this new environment and imple­ment the successful prin­ciples of entrepreneurship. connecting with creativity of the public to find solutions to problems is one of these ini­tiatives, she said. 
“not all great ideas are in­vented by our own employ­ees,” goldstein said. 
goldstein said ge recog­nized the power of crowd-sourcing and the potential of looking outside its own organization for intellectual capital, and thus, started giv­ing prompts and challenges based on real business issues to the public. 
goldstein said eliminating the red tape and complacen­cy of bureaucracy has been another major priority for ge. 
“what we are now saying to 325,000 people is: do the right thing, and sometimes that means just cut through the clutter,” she said. 
ge is trying to get its em­ployees to look more close­ly and creatively at the situations their customers face, which means going beyond simply asking the customers what they want, goldstein said. 
“The true disruption comes from real deep understanding of the customer experience, of the customer journey, of pain points they have in whatever they’re using or experiencing at that moment,” goldstein said. 
one of the most tangi­ble and important entre­preneurial shifts ge has made, goldstein said, was the creation of the portfolio optimization growth board. This organization reviews proposals about new prod­ucts and services by ge em­ployees and grants funding. The board defines what stag­es the proposal is at: seed, launch or growth and gives financial support to match each stage. 
“what too many products have done is gone from idea to scale, and that’s a miser­able way to lose a lot money,” goldstein said. 
goldstein said the multi-step process of ge’s growth board is designed to care­fully nurture entrepreneurial endeavors and to make sure they do not flame out or ex­pand too quickly. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

JPW 
conTinued From page 1 
For purrenhage and yemc, this “leg work” involves a lot of small tasks they had not necessarily even considered prior to working this weekend. 
“basically, there are a lot of little things that go into this all, and i think we’ll learn more about those as we’re going into next year and planning, but right now it’s a lot of just little things,” purrenhage said. 
Their jobs started on Tuesday with stuffing the 1,300 envelopes for the members of the junior class. 
“That’s a painful job,” yemc said. “it wasn’t just us, we worked a lot with the junior commissioners as well, but basically it worked out to be about 24 hours of work, which is a lot. spread that out over a number of people, obviously that changes, but it’s a fair amount of work.” 
The weekend formally opened with the opening gala at the Joyce center (Jacc) on Friday night. 
“as far as we could tell, the gala went really well, madi walked around a bit more than i did, but it seemed like everyone was having a good time and enjoying them­selves,” yemc said. 
The transformation of the Jacc was spectacular, purrenhage said. 
“The facilities for the gala are huge, and they really do a great job at making everything just look so incredible. purrenhage said. 

“[There are a lot] of cash bars ev­erywhere, so people are walking around with their wine glasses, and it’s very classy.” 
The event included a dance floor and general room for mingling, according to purrenhage. 
“There’s a giant dance floor in the middle of the room, and that’s really cool because you have par­ents and kids, and it’s a giant mass of people just talking and danc­ing,” purrenhage said. “and ev­eryone looks so beautiful, they’re all dressed up because it’s a for­mal event. ... it’s a really incredible event. everyone i ran into was re­ally enjoying themselves...” 
according to yemc, the saturday night president’s dinner was the main event of the weekend. 
he said the dinner had the larg­est turnout and featured Fr. John Jenkins, as well as erin hoffmann harding, 
The weekend concluded with a brunch that starts at 9 a.m., also hosted in the Jacc. “it’s a great way to close out the weekend,” yemc said. 
For yemc and purrenhage, the end of the weekend only marks the beginning of their planning for next year’s Jpw. 
“The size of the project is just way bigger than i ever thought it would be. i didn’t think they would give this much responsibility to students. i think it’s crazy how much they’ve done and how much we have to do for next year,” yemc said. 
purrenhage said she’s excited about it, but there are a lot of ways to improve on this year. 
“i would also say that it’s cra­zy thinking about all the little things that go into it — things you wouldn’t think about necessarily or think about at all,” purrenhage said. 
For now, both purrenhage and yemc are exhausted from the weekend, but enthusiastic about next year. 
“i’ve been taking down notes all weekend of things we can do bet­ter, things we’re doing well,” yemc said. “it’s a lot. we’re a little tired, but it’s worthwhile.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
Labor 
conTinued From page 1 
divisions portrayed in this paint­ing, especially regarding the role of the priest. 
“i feel that the priest’s presence shows that they’re making it [the cross] as part of their business; they’re not necessarily thinking about the religious implications … he is sort of the patron paying for this, and they are providing the priest and upper class this service,” freshman Julie mardini said. 
daniel graff, director of the higgins labor program, offered a different interpretation of the sig­nificance of the various roles in the painting. 
“you can read this completely positively, that forging a cross, forg­ing a church or forging a religious community, [this painting] shows the work involved in that. even though it’s showing men at work and women watching, they’re still in the frame,” graff said. 
hoyt and cheryl snay, curator of european art, furthered the dis­cussion by speaking on the time period and context of the piece and the artist henry mosler. 
“mosler, as an artist, has a ca­reer that’s really emblematic of american artists of the later nine­teenth century,” hoyt said. 

hoyt explained that henry mosler immigrated to the united states after spending much time in europe, and he painted “Forging the cross” in 1904 in new york city. 
“by the time this painting was painted, he had moved back to the united states, set up his studio in new york and had embarked on a series of historical paintings,” snay said. 
snay explained that mosler de­scribed the community members in the painting as being dressed in puritan clothing when he ap­plied to copyright his work, but the 
paid adverTisemenT 
priest in the painting is not illus­trative of a puritan minister. This has led to ambiguity surrounding the priest and the meaning of the work. 
graff also commented on the historical context of the piece. 
“he’s painting this in 1904 … this in the midst of class conflict of urban america. … [mosler] may be somehow commenting on some­thing to do with religion and the workplace and community,” graff said. 
similarly, the discussion then concluded on the meaning of the work and the significance of this painting in relation to present day america. 
“i’m wondering what the effect of this painting is today, … and i don’t really know what it is besides thinking about … [how] every­one in their lifetime will experi­ence some type of work, whether they’re viewing it … [or] doing it,” senior hannah petersen said. 
“Forging the cross” will remain in exhibition at the snite museum of art until march 13, and the next labor café will be hosted by the higgins labor studies program on april 1 in the geddes coffeehouse. 
Contact Meghan Sullivan at msulli41@nd.edu 




Mooney 
conTinued From page 1 
but the campaign concluded in February 2015 after surpassing the initial goal and raising $105 million, making it the most suc­cessful fundraising campaign in the college’s 171-year history. 
mooney said it is in the college’s dna to ignore obstacles and the success of the campaign is a tribute to the great education at saint mary’s. 
“The campaign was a success because saint mary’s is a good place because it does good work and its needs to continue,” she said. 
The campaign wasn’t the suc­cess of one person, she said, but it was about getting the word about saint mary’s out and showing people what the stu­dents, alumnae, faculty and ad­ministration are doing to make a difference in the world. 
she cited historic women of the college and their can-do at­titudes as her inspiration. 
“mother pauline built le mans hall when she didn’t know where the money was going to come from,” mooney said. “she got a fair amount of grief from other sisters in the congregation for moving forward on such a huge project, but she did it anyway. 
“sister madeleva wolff started the school of sacred theology when there was no place in the world where women or even lay­men could do advanced study in catholic theology.” 
renovations to madeleva hall were completed early in her presidency and the campus map looks different than it did when she took office in 2004. mooney led fundraising and oversaw the completion of spes unica hall in 2008, as well as the beginning of renovation to purcell athletic Fields, angela athletic Facility and science hall. 
There are lots of people today who keep declaring the end of women’s colleges, but nobody at saint mary’s is thinking that, she said. 

“There’s a sense here that if it needs to be done, let’s get on with it and do it,” she said. while it is important to get things done, mooney said she hopes mem­bers of the college community will be inspired by her own pride for the college. 
“what i hope has been the result of my presidency is a re­newed confidence in saint mary’s, a renewed pride.” 
new graduate programs align with both the mission of the sisters and the college are part of that renewed pride. 
“having the kind of graduate programs that we have started fits with our emphasis on teach­ing and fits with what we’ve learned from the sisters, to see what the current needs are  and then try to meet them.” 
The sisters of the holy cross have had a deep impact on mooney, and she said they in­spire her to live out her faith each day. 
“working with the sisters has been a real privilege. my family has worshipped at the church of loretto for years before i became president.” 
The hospitality of the sisters has very important in both her personal life and her profes­sional life at the college. “i really admire the sisters. i think what they exude is a real sense that they see the face of god in every single human being,” she said. 
like the sisters, mooney be­lieves in the impact of diversity of ideas and experiences at the college. when she became pres­ident racial and ethnic diversity was 9.1 percent and when mea­sured in 2015, it increased to 17 percent. 
“The church is universal, em­bracing people from all cultures and races,” mooney said. “as an educational institution, we need the richest possible classroom conversations, and what i’ve emphasized is racial and ethnic diversity because those are still markers in our society for differ­ent lived experience. 
“having students with a va­riety of lived experiences in the classroom enriches the educa­tion for every single student in that classroom,” she said. “it makes it a more vibrant intellec­tual community, and all of our students deserve that.” 
The voices of young women project was an initiative campus ministry launched nationally in september 2014 with the sup­port of the college’s division for mission. campus ministry in­vited millennial women to write letters to pope Francis express­ing their love for the catholic tradition and sharing ideas that could contribute to the church’s outreach to young women and support them in meeting today’s challenges. 
mooney, along with her hus­band george efta and two stu­dents, grace urankar ’14 and kristen millar ‘15 traveled to rome to deliver the more than 200 letters written by saint mary’s students and women across the country. 
carrying the letters across the globe was the most impactful part of the experience, mooney said. 
“meeting the pope was won­derful, but carrying those let­ters where young women had poured their hearts out to the pope was what was most power­ful to me, and the hope that what those women had to say will help form our church so that it better serves everybody, that was the real privilege.” 
she further described the ex­perience that built her faith in both the college and in god. 
“it was one of those moments where i thought saint mary’s gave me the privilege of doing this and now i get to keep tell­ing people about it. so what does it do for my faith? it calls on me. sometimes it’s easy to respond to that and other times it’s not.” 
during her presiden­cy, mooney has had many opportunities to travel around the u.s. to meet with alumnae, donors and important catholic leaders, including meeting with pope benedict Xvi in washington dc and traveling to rome for the beatification of Father basil moreau. 

regarding the presidential Taskforce on sexual assault, mooney said the group will meet to discuss the findings of the campus climate survey that was sent out earlier in the semes­ter and plan next steps for edu­cation and prevention of sexual assault. 
a saint mary’s woman to her core, mooney said she’s working through feelings of leaving the college. 
“i’ve told a lot of seniors that i will be as much as wreck on commencement day as they will be. 
“i know intellectually — and probably in my gut — that it’s time for me to go,” mooney said. “it’s a good time at the college that all of our projects will be completed. we did our accredi­tation this fall, finished the cam­paign, we’re coming to the end of a strategic planning period. so i know it’s the right time, but i feel so connected here. it’s going to be hard to step aside, but i will.” 
mooney and efta have lived in south bend for more than 36 years and she plans to stay in the area, except for trips to spend more time with her three grand­children and two to be born in spring or summer. 
“i’ve lived on the fringes of saint mary’s pretty much my whole life. it’s turning into a long goodbye, but i’m trying to find the pleasure in each day.” 
her contract ends may 31, and president-elect Jan cervelli will take over June 1. Though she plans to distance herself from the college, she said she’ll be back for her 45th reunion in June 2017. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
Workshop 
conTinued From page 1 
smith said. “when we open to oth­ers, they open to us, and then, we can go from me to you to we.” 
smith said actors should free themselves of inhibitions since they cannot always anticipate ex­actly what will happen on stage. 
“you are inclined to want to come to conclusions quickly, but when asked to examine it, your conclusion is disrupted,” she said. “we wait for the people who ap­pear to have the power to make us comfortable, but do we make them comfortable with us?’” 
smith said interpreting others’ gestures and learning the mean­ings behind their mannerisms helps actors more fully under­stand one another. 
“if your aspiration is to become a communicator, whether that is to lead or to help someone who is suf­fering, wouldn’t it be useful to have a way of communicating that’s re­ally in response to the moment?” smith asked. “i don’t think we can know each other if we don’t make the jump to know each other.” 
smith said actors can give mem­orable performances if they take original approaches and make their characters different from anything audience members have seen before. 
“we all are mimics, and we are sponges, so my question is always ‘when does it become individu­al?’” smith said. “i don’t even like it that all babies cry exactly the same all over the world. i’m like, ‘why can’t you laugh?’” 
First year ev dundon said Friday’s workshop built on her previous experience and helped her explore new and unfamiliar dimensions of acting. 
“it’s so much harder than i thought,” dundon said. “i’ve [act­ed] for a while, and i love it. it’s one of the most familiar things i’ve done … but i never realized that it’s not only memorizing lines.” 
according to dundon, smith emphasized the importance of remaining open to others’ man­nerisms and ways of speaking, for in embracing distinct ges­tures, actors can best portray their characters. 
“i learned how to completely throw myself away and be some­one totally different,” dundon said. “it was challenging, but i felt like it helped because i’ve had struggles with that. i thought i had to have a little of myself that i could relate to, but now i don’t think so. maybe i just need to throw it all away and start fresh.” 
dundon said she values the op­portunity to learn from an expert such as smith. 
“To have a professional eye around us, that was a benefit be­cause we are surrounded by stu­dents and professors who have had experience, but [smith] has been on a Tv show, and she’s been recognized from that show,” she said. “i think it’s important to see it from that perspective.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu and Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

a musical remedy 
Manny De Jesus 
sports writer 

life can get rough sometimes. it’s no one’s fault, but that’s the reality we live in especially as notre dame students. we’re constantly stressed over getting our assignments done, competing for summer internships and juggling extracurricular activities with having a healthy social life. 
i admire how much work some of the people i know put in on a daily basis. many go to class from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., have work afterwards, and finally, head to the library for a four-hour study session. it’s pretty incredible when we sit back and think about it. 
but, again, that’s life. 

here are my two cents on how to make life just a little bit easier. For many of us who think there isn’t a way out from the pressures of being a col­lege student, pull out your headphones, plug them into your ears and let the music take you away. 
create a nice playlist of songs that you know can put you in a zone outside of reality and listen to it for about 30 minutes a day. lay down and close your eyes while the tunes fill your head, or take a walk around the scenic parts of campus as you lis­ten. i am a firm believer that music is the the per­fect remedy for relieving stress and easing people back into a clear state of mind. how are you going to do anything well if you’re not thinking straight or feeling comfortable with yourself? 
we can’t forget that we’re just human. a lot of our lives revolve around being productive aca­demically and career-wise, and after a while, it can become a monotonous routine that can bog our minds down. instead of falling victim to the pressure, we have to find moments when we can remind ourselves that life is much more than tests and fluffing our resumes. 
Just to be clear, i’m not saying that we should take the foot off the pedal and stop looking for ways to excel in those things, but if we can just sit back and find ourselves through something as soothing as music, we won’t be as drained at the end of each night. 
after four straight classes the other day, i got back to my dorm, pulled out my laptop and im­mediately started working tirelessly on the three different essays i have due in the next couple of weeks. Then, i shifted my focus to a research pro­posal i’m presenting next month for a summer project i hope to receive a grant for. as soon as i wrapped that up, i put my jacket on and headed out for a three-hour shift at work. i was mentally strained by the end of the night, but instead of let­ting it linger, i put my headphones on and listened to ed sheeran. 
i listened to “The a Team,” “The man” and “bloodstream.” during that 12-minute span, i for­got about everything that had happened that day, the worries subsided, and my mind was at ease. 
That’s just my version of how i used music to soothe the headaches of the day. everyone has a couple of songs or playlists that they know can do the same for them. use them more often. music is, without a doubt, one of the most accessible remedies out there, so put down the advil, plug the headphones in, and let the good vibes take you away for a bit. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Of nominees and applesauce 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 

on Feb. 13, supreme court associate Justice antonin scalia was reported as having died while on vacation in Texas. before the evening news could even report it to the nation, speculation swirled as to who would replace him. senate majority leader mitch mcconnell vowed not to confirm any nominee president barack obama might send him, and democrats pounced on those words and accused mcconnell of obstructionism not yet seen in consideration of supreme court nominees. 
i’d like to begin by saying that i don’t agree with mcconnell’s strategy here. i think he should’ve stayed quiet, memorialized Justice scalia, and waited until obama sent him a nominee. at which point, he could drag on the nomi­nation hearings for months and ultimately reject the nomi­nee. at least then the senate would look to the american people like it was doing its job. mcconnell instead may have backed himself into a corner. mcconnell would probably prefer obama’s nominee to the nominees of two potential presidential nominees, Ted cruz, who frequently uses the “five lawyers in washington” line to discredit the supreme court and question their authority in judicial review and has been an irritant of senate leadership, or donald Trump, who practically never spoke of supreme court Justices or rulings before this election season. now, to stay true to his word, he would have to reject any nominees and wait until the next president is inaugurated in January 2017. That president’s name will be clinton, Trump, cruz, or rubio, and mcconnell is likely only satisfied with one of those options. 
regardless, i would like to turn your attention to the claims of the democrats regarding mcconnell’s comments. among the arguments most utilized is the argument that mcconnell voted to confirm Justice kennedy during an elec­tion year, and saying that fact makes mcconnell a hypocrite. in the words of the late Justice scalia, that argument is “pure applesauce.” what democrats fail to mention is the full story. They fail to disclose their own varied collective past on nom­inations of supreme court nominees. 
in June of 1987, associate Justice powell announced his resignation from the supreme court. days later, senate majority leader and democrat robert byrd said that president reagan’s possible nomination of d.c. circuit appellate Judge robert bork to the vacant scoTus seat “would be inviting problems” in the senate. The democratic whip, alan cranston of california, sent a letter to his democratic colleagues instructing them to form a “solid phalanx” against reagan’s nominee. 
“‘i’m going to hit them where it hurts,’ he said, referring to delaying planned recesses and keeping the senate in session into november. ‘They’re going to pay,’ he said.” all of these quotes can be found in the new york Times article here. 
The democrats definitely made republicans “pay” by obstructing the confirmation of bork and ultimately reject­ing him. after a long battle over bork, reagan nominated anthony kennedy in november of 1987, and he was ulti­mately confirmed to the supreme court in early February of 1988. That is the full story of mcconnell’s vote during an election year, and it serves to make two points: First, that the timing and debate of a supreme court nominee was a full six months longer than what would be possible this time, and second, that democrats have obstructed the nomination process in the past. 
This isn’t the only time that democrats have obstructed the nomination process. in 2004, an election year in which democrats hoped they would upend president george bush, senate democrats invoked the “Thurmond rule” to obstruct the confirmation process of some of bush’s nominees. in 2007, senator chuck schumer fought the idea of bush ap­pointing another supreme court Justice. “‘we should re­verse the presumption of confirmation,’ schumer told the american constitution society convention in washington. ‘The supreme court is dangerously out of balance. we can­not afford to see Justice stevens replaced by another roberts, or Justice ginsburg by another alito.’” schumer will likely be the democratic leader after harry reid retires and has been one of the loudest critics of mcconnell’s vow not to confirm a new Justice. schumer’s greatest regret of that congress was that “alito shouldn’t have been confirmed.” he said, “i should have done a better job. my colleagues said we didn’t have the votes, but i think we should have twisted more arms and done more.” ironically, bush white house spokes­woman dana perino responded to schumer with a refrain that democrats are currently pointing to republicans, “schumer’s comments show a tremendous disrespect for the constitution by suggesting that the senate not confirm nominees.” 
again, i’m not endorsing mcconnell’s strategy for han­dling supreme court nominees, but democratic senators and strategists should be held to their statements and have their past obstructionism pointed out. as the old saying goes, live by the sword and you will die by the sword. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying accountancy. He welcomes any challenges to his opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The art we neither deserve nor need 
beyoncé knowles-carter recently started a firestorm with her super bowl halftime performance. i mean my head is burning with anger. good god, bey! what are you thinking bringing politics and activism into the public domain? don’t you know the role of the artist is to portray universal themes? as albert camus empha­sized during his nobel prize acceptance speech, artists must separate themselves from the community, live on a different level from everyone else and never take sides. art rarely takes on serious issues experienced by societies. The beyoncé critics are right: society does not need artists who actually portray the world in which we live. 
Quite frankly, history supports this view. many of the best-selling and most-respected literally pieces that make up the western anthology are neutral and simplistic. plato’s “allegory of the cave” was a fun bed­time story about being tied up to a cave and had noth­ing to do with the philosopher’s search for knowledge. nathaniel hawthorne’s “The scarlet letter” is histori­cally misunderstood. it was really a lesson in fashion. have you seen the outfits of that time? They needed it. Furthermore, i assume everyone knows that “The great gatsby” was a narrative of the partying culture of post-world war one america in which everyone partook. 
This is the way we, as a society, like it. There should be no difference or creativity portrayed in art. That’s not the point of art, is it? some people speak of “alle­gories” and such, but we all know that is simply liberal propaganda. 
we don’t want works of art that divide us. consider uncle Tom’s cabin, if you can call that literature! That was nothing short of an attempt to throw an otherwise civilized, united, and happy society into chaos. indeed all it took was eight years after its publication for the nation to be ablaze. 
don’t we prefer the time when artists stayed out of public life? let’s go back to that time! or perhaps have them refrain from taking opinions and sides. i, for one, would have preferred a super bowl halftime in which beyoncé sang the news to the country. maybe i’m alone in that wish. 
how about that performance by kendrick lamar at the grammy’s? deplorable and inartistic to say the least. don’t you agree? 
Patrick Ntwari 
senior Feb. 16 


la búsqueda de la Felicidad 
Devon Chenelle 
The gadfly 

when donald Trump announced his presiden­tial campaign last June, he declared if elected president “i will build a great, great wall on our southern border. and i will have mexico pay.” since then, each republican candidate has scrambled to match Trump’s proposal’s bombas­tic fury. interestingly, america and immigration appear so inseparable that a primary process re­warding fiery nativist rhetoric is being contested among candidates with strikingly cosmopolitan families. marco rubio is the son of two immi­grants, Trump and cruz each have one immigrant parent, and both of John kasich’s parents were first-generation americans. The vanquished Jeb bush married a foreigner, though Trump outdid him and wedded two. Ted cruz, whose website proclaims “we have a serious immigration prob­lem in america,” is a canadian-born immigrant himself. grandiose denunciations of immigra­tion are political theater impotently railing against the truth: immigration is fundamentally american, integral to our past success and fu­ture prosperity. americans ought still call for the world’s tired, poor and huddled masses, in a voice louder than ever. 
immigration is deeply ideologically compat­ible with conservative and liberal ideals. Though this will not, perhaps, persuade many of its foes, it clears the way for a powerful presentation of its pragmatic appeal. 
For liberals, immigration offers one of the best opportunities to aid the world’s victimized and downtrodden. The perilous journey to the united states up through mexico is traveled by desper­ate immigrants for whom braving the route is their families’ only hope. once in america, these immigrants are hounded by officials intent to deport them for the crime of working to ease their family’s burden. a path to amnesty for illegal immigrants, and further opening of immigra­tion policy, promises to swiftly ease the burden of countless put-upon souls and offer a path to a better life for untold millions suffering abroad. 
The appeal to conservatives is comparably compelling. immigration has, since days of hazy posterity, been one of america’s key values. The original colonies were built through immigration, and foreigners alexander hamilton, the marquis de lafayette and Thomas paine were integral to the american revolution. Free-market values of open competition and equality of opportunity seem to demand immigration — or are those for born americans only? — and little is more indi­vidualistic than leaving behind home, family and friends for a new life in a strange land. whether cloaked in americanisms or in free-market prin­ciples, the conservative case for an open immi­gration policy is clear. 
For those bored by ideological romanticism, the numbers make an obvious case for an open immi­gration policy. in a university of chicago survey, 89 percent of economists “strongly agreed” or “agreed” with the statement “the average us citi­zen would be better off if a larger number of high­ly educated foreign workers were legally allowed to immigrate to the us each year.” although less educated immigrants attract less excitement and more opprobrium, they are vital to our economy. such immigrants often do the silently essential jobs americans won’t, a reality demonstrated by the consequences of a 2011 georgia immigration bill intended to push illegal immigrants from the state. anticipating a massive labor shortage for the state’s farms, georgia’s governor planned to replace the immigrant workers with probation­ers. The governor’s foresight was apt, but limited; the farms were abandoned by migrant workers, but the probationers recoiled at the backbreaking labor and walked off the job. as a result, tons of produce rotted away in fields across georgia. The data supporting claims that immigration low­ers employment and wages is murky but incon­sequential, because as the cato institute’s alex nowraseth writes, “discussion of immigration’s small impact on native wages and employment misses the forest for the weeds,” as “the real question is whether immigration would increase wealth. The answer is a resounding yes.” 
plunging fertility rates are an increasingly ur­gent concern across the developed world; Japan’s economy is dragged down by its dwindling youth’s obligation to support increasingly dis­proportionate numbers of elderly, while putin’s adventurous foreign policy is undermined by the slow dying of russia’s population. The u.s. fer­tility rate, currently 1.88 children per woman, is well below the replacement rate of 2.1. only im­migration is able to fill the labor gap created by our low fertility, and luckily america is one of the few countries open and attractive to immigrants. we ought work for an america that stays this way, as declining numbers of working-age adults could place existentially threatening pressure on our pension schemes and labor markets. 
america must preserve and expand its legal im­migration programs, while reaching an accom­modation with its undocumented residents that eases our government’s quixotic persecution of illegal immigrants. doing so is, at the very least, compatible with the predominant ideological concerns of american liberals and conservatives, and at the same time, bears crucial economic and demographic boons. 
Devon Chenelle is a sophomore in Keough Hall. He is a history major with an Italian minor. He can be reached at dchenell@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Response to ‘Threat to our religious roots’ 
i’d like to begin with a bit of full disclosure. i’m an officer of the college democrats and a veteran of several democratic political campaigns. in the current election cycle, i am not a bernie sanders supporter. in fact, i am quite the opposite: i’m actively working to ensure that hillary clinton wins the democratic nomination for president. with that said, i find these claims about senator sanders to be not only misguided and wrong, but fundamentally dangerous to our nation’s guiding principles. 
The author writes, “The truth is sanders doesn’t belong to a religion. while bernie has often de­scribed himself as “culturally Jewish,” he ad­mitted to the washington post late last month that he “isn’t actively involved with organized religion.” 
on the surface, senator sanders appears like many of us. many of us call ourselves christians, catholics, muslims or Jews, and yet we do not go to organized services on the weekly sabbath or live our lives strictly in accordance with each faith’s teachings. That’s quite alright. religion is not meant to be an exclusive club. religion is some­thing that comes to people in different ways. 
damstra questions senator sanders’ own ideas regarding his faith: “in a recent interview with the washington post sanders said, ‘i think ev­eryone believes in god in their own ways. To me, it means that all of us are connected, all of life is connected, and that we are all tied together.’ what does that even mean?” 
For senator sanders, that means that his faith is tied into his own ideas; it is a personal journey, just like so many of ours. rather than living his life in the shadow of being “culturally Jewish,” the senator has, i’m sure, struggled with his own faith and come to a realization that works for him. as catholics, we are not asked to judge and speak condescendingly of other faiths. in fact, we are called to address others and their closely held views with respect. 
america was founded on principles shared by abrahamic faiths, sure. but these principles are not exclusively “Judeo-christian,” as the author writes. They are not even religious by nature. 
“life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness” — and not to mention freedom, equality, democ­racy, justice and so many more — are what make this country great. To claim them strictly for christianity is not only wrong, but it is in opposi­tion to one of the most important principles we have: a diversity of opinions. 
as we enter into the homestretch of the presi­dential race, let us not question the supposed degree of religiosity of each candidate. rather, let us question their ideas, their temperament, their judgement, their commitment to our great nation and its guiding principles. let us appreciate the diversity of faiths not only in our society but in our presidential candidates as well. For those of us who call ourselves catholic, let us continue to live our lives in the spirit of the beatitudes and not in the pursuit of a misguided and exclusive club. 
Andrew Galo 
junior Feb. 13 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

“i will show him what true love is!,” the recent widow elena ivanovna popova frustratingly declares as she stares at a picture of her recently deceased, un­faithful husband. Farce, from the light­hearted to the heavy, is the main vehicle in investigating human relationships in notre dame’s department of Film, Television and Theatre’s production of “The bear” and “afterplay.” 
directed by FTT department member carys kresny, “The bear” and “afterplay” are two consecutive one-act comedies from the late irish playwright brian Friel and are presented as part of notre dame’s keough-naughton institute for irish studies celebration of irish history and culture. Friel’s acts are interpreta­tions from the works of the russian play­wright anton chekhov, considered to be one of the all-time greatest short fiction writers. “The bear” and “afterplay” are playing at the philbin studio Theatre in the debartolo performing arts center and 
By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
scene writer 

Traveling comedy troupe second city’s performance at the university’s washington hall this past Friday, in many ways, attempted to cap­ture the weight of the question of if one should feel alone in an age that bom­bards its denizens with constant feed­back and constant company. 
second city is an improvisational comedy troupe based in chicago, well-known as the launching pad of several of today’s comedy greats, including steve carell, Tina Fey and stephen colbert, to name a few. They have the­atres in los angeles and Toronto in ad­dition to a traveling crew that puts on shows all across the nation and abroad. 
it would be an insult to the group, however, to assert that their work is merely comedy, as to do so would be to remove from it all measure of meaning. elements of their Friday performance, rather, came together to form something more akin to a manifesto, an address of the 21st century’s elephant in the room 
— comically overblown and popped like a balloon animal. our laughter, if nothing else, was self-defense. 
Their numerous skits — some script­ed, some totally improvised — ranged highlight the best of student actors. 
The first act, “The bear,” opens to a woman in black awkwardly swaying to a low-light clarinet serenade in a posh, bohemian living room, immediately es­tablishing the act’s farce backbone. set sometime in the early 1920s in moscow, “The bear” traces the budding relation­ship between widow elena ivanovna popova and oddball landowner grigory stepanovitch smirnov. The story begins when smirnov attempts to collect the debt of popova’s late husband, but is im­mediately met with stern opposition. yet, what begins as disgust melts into a ridic­ulous embrace as the foolish characters fall helplessly in love, despite the warn­ings of the hilarious luka, popova’s trusty footman. 
while “The bear” mainly follows the duo of popova and smirnov, it is the un­likely luka who delivers with the laughs. by presenting quality acting, spot-on timing and the correct amount slapstick, sophomore ben vasquez seized the atten­tion whenever on stage, whether by de­sign, or despite it. unfortunately though, 
between topics as diverse as time travel, “burritophilia” and the mar­keting strategies of hygiene products. whether explicitly or not, almost all of them touched on the topics of love, shame, awkwardness, desperation and abandonment in ways that for many hit unexpectedly close to home. 
yet the actors were unapologetic in their delivery. in one skit that runs for less than a minute, a troubled woman speaks to her therapist about her aban­donment issues; her therapist proceeds to abruptly leave the room to answer a phone call. The response of the audi­ence was somewhere halfway between laughter and flinch, like schaden­freude that feels all too familiar. not that many of us, thankfully, have been abandoned in such a tactless fashion, but many of us have experienced rejec­tion in much more subtle ways, which the troupe similarly lampooned. 
in a scene that feels frighteningly realistic, for instance, a woman in her late 20s runs into her high school crush, and in attempting to ask him out, can’t prevent herself from digressing into a monologue of self-loathing in which fe­ces, lesbians and cancer-afflicted chil­dren make frequent cameos. in another, a couple returns to the woman’s apart­ment after a date, only to be frequently while the leading senior imani parker­robinson and freshman Tyrel london may have mastered their respective roles, the noticeable lack of chemistry distract­ed from the humor of much of the act, and especially so at the finale. yet, between the brevity of the 40-minute act and luka’s understated comedic reprieve, “The bear” satisfied. 

while “The bear” may have left a bit to be desired, primarily in the acting catego­ry, all was redeemed with the play’s sec­ond act, “afterplay.” a simple café setting stood at the center of the elevated stage as an imposing gorgon, played by sopho­more kelly carr, arranged a meek meal for two. The act begins when two unassuming middle-aged people reunite after a drunk­en night of casual conversation. senior lesley stevenson shines as frustratingly timid sonya, and london played the per­fect foil with his lovably down-on-his-luck character andrey (Editor’s Note: Stevenson is a copy editor for The Observer). as the act progress, the lies the two told one another the night before begin to unravel. Quickly, the reality of lost loves and missed success 
disturbed by the wailing of the wom­an’s divorced and lonely sister; whether you identify with the woman or her sis­ter, there was plenty in the scene with which to relate. other skits deal with ul­tramodern concerns like the paranoia in watching “the three dots” appear on your phone›s screen but never receiving the text, and the disappointment of be­ing matched with creepy men who lie about themselves on dating websites. 
as much as 21st century technology may bring us together, these skits as­sert, there is an enduring awkwardness about how we go about our relation­ships today. perhaps, indeed, it is this forced proximity that causes us to step on each other and embarrass ourselves in characteristically modern ways. 
but the mood seemed overall opti­mistic. a skit in which a group of con­temporary adventurers travel back in time to tell racist jokes ends badly as they discover the very real bigotry that has shaped the american landscape over the years. They poke fun at our past, but they also suggest that we have come a long way — that is, until a cam­eo by politicomedian donald Trump indicates that we still have a long way to go. 
in the last skit before the show’s outro, troupe members sequentially comes to light, creating a poignant air of vulnerable genuineness, which played nicely with the farcical undertones. 
both acts thrive in the intimate setting of the philbin studio Theatre. simple fur­niture and ornaments allowed the vul­nerability to become the focal point of the performance, evoking a very human ex­perience. both “The bear” and “afterplay” rely heavily on the interactions between the two leading roles, and the close quar­ters of the theatre helped facilitate these relationships. lighting also played a cru­cial role in sustaining this vulnerability. spotlights were used effectively in focus­ing on the back-and-forth antics between main characters, and varying degrees of intensity helped create crucial tension in the pivotal scenes of each act. 
“The bear” and “afterplay” work in their simplicity and are worth the price of the ticket. The productions will run in the debartolo preforming art center through Feb. 28. 
Contact Adam Ramos at                                         aramos6@nd.edu 
reveal deep secrets about themselves at a slumber party. when the first and second reveal that they are lesbian and transgender, respectively, their confes­sions are met with virtually no reaction 
— which we are meant to interpret as a positive reaction — since “it’s 2016!” one could argue that here the show is at its most political, but they are just as likely trying to assert that respect and understanding are the ways of the day, prejudice and intolerance to be relegat­ed to the distant past. 
second city’s performance was a “where are They now?” of contempo­rary american sociology — are we a di­lapidated version of “a simpler time” or an improvement upon it? The answer, this show seemed to assert, is compli­cated. but life is complicated. and it’s awkward, embarrassing and depressing … but it’s also just funny. awkwardness is funny, as our roaring laughter reflect­ed. embarrassment is funny (to watch). depression — well, mental illness is not a joke. but if we take the time to step back from fate’s chaotic ridicule and laugh together, we may yet make a co­zier place for ourselves in this strange, strange world. 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at asanch11@nd.edu 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


WANTED 

Need Tutor(s): high school biology & Algebra 
2. Tutoring may continue summer & beyond. Prefer our house, 10-15 minutes from ND, but open to other locations. Contact Linda at lwaelchli@datacruz.com 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: look, and you will find what you are searching for. embrace what’s important to you and make this year one of gratitude and fulfillment. it’s up to you to make good choices. depend less on others and more on your abilities, experience and desire to do what you do best and enjoy most. nothing will change if you don’t take the initiative. your numbers are 2, 13, 20, 26, 31, 42, 48.. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Face any challenge with strength and courage, and you will make a lasting impression. once you have taken care of pressing matters, it will be time to enjoy what you have accomplished. make your love life a priority. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): do what you can, but don’t feel the need to go past the call of duty. someone will take advantage of you if you are too eager to help. Take time to be with friends or work toward a similar goal as your peers. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): dkeep your thoughts and feelings precise and out in the open. keep tabs on your spending and stay away from those who may be prone to indulgence. make personal improvements that will increase your confidence and point you in a new direction. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a walk down a path that will teach you self-awareness or give you inner strength. be receptive to alternatives and look for ways to incorporate positive changes into your everyday routine. don’t be afraid to be different. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): instead of stewing over something that’s gone wrong, fix it. Take the initiative and make the changes that are necessary to make you happy, healthy and in control. an important relationship will take a positive turn. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): listen, assess situations and hold steady until you are certain that the move you make will take you where you want to go. don’t believe everything you hear. Question your beliefs and act responsibly. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make a point to help someone today and you will feel good about yourself. Try to bring about positive changes for someone in need. your kindness will be appreciated and will impress someone you love. romance is featured. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t fight opposition. go about your business and give everyone the freedom to choose to do what he or she wants. you’ll face less interference if you aren’t intrusive or controlling. work on self-improvements, not on trying to change others. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): a day trip will do you good and spark your imagination. include someone you love or make a point of getting together with the people you share fond memories with. a reunion or a chance to make personal improvements will turn out well. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can make an unusual discovery that will help you improve your reputation or current professional position. check out a job prospect that grabs your attention. starting your own business or having a side job that you enjoy will pay off. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a subtle physical change will draw compliments from someone special. express how you would like to see your relationship with someone grow, and start putting plans in motion. The changes you make will help you improve your vocational prospects. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): getting together with someone who can help you develop your professional skills will pay off. Taking a unique approach to something you love to do will draw attention and unexpected considerations that could lead to greater income. 


Birthday Baby: you are captivating, humorous and persuasive. you are sympathetic and persistent. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
“All the art of living lies in a fine mingling of let­ting go and holding on.” -Havelock Ellis 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

deadline fizzles, but nba shines 
R.J. Stempak 
sports writer 
The greatest day of the year for those of us who are addicted to enacting out our fantasies through espn’s nba trade machine was this past Thursday, the day of the nba’s trade deadline. 
last year was highlighted by dead silence until the final hour, when it seemed as though every roster had a player move in a chaotic scramble that took hours to untangle and under­stand. key players that moved were goran dragic to the heat, michael carter­williams to the bucks and brandon knight to the suns. personally, my favorite move of last year’s trade deadline was the celtics picking up isaiah Thomas from the suns. The diminutive guard, listed at only 5’9”, has found his niche in the league as a scorer. Thomas has always been able to get buckets, and he averaged over 20 points per game in his third year in the league despite being the last overall pick in his draft class. The celtics got him on a good contract, and the move has paid dividends for the team this season, as Thomas was selected as an all-star. 
This year, however, it was much less exciting. The team with the most personnel change was the detroit pistons. The pistons, in exchange for brandon Jennings and ersan ilyasova, acquired Tobias harris from the magic. harris is a young, emerging scorer who can play both the small forward and power forward posi­tions and fits in nicely with the timetable of the other pieces of the pistons’ core — reggie Jackson, kentavious caldwell-pope and andre drummond. detroit also added some depth to their bench with two former members of the houston rockets, marcus Thornton and donatas motiejunas. Thornton and motiejunas will provide some depth and scoring to what was previ­ously a thin, weak pistons bench. 

perhaps the most im­portant move of the day was made when the cleveland cavaliers ac­quired channing Frye. Frye provides the east’s leading contender with another big man with a killer shooting stroke and another piece to space the floor around lebron James. with the other two main contend­ers for the title, the golden state warriors and the san antonio spurs, happy to roll into the playoffs with their current rosters, the cavaliers’ latest addition could be the missing piece that finally gives James the chance to bring a title to cleveland. 
even though the moves that were made are fun to discuss, the most important takeaway from a dull trade deadline day should, inter­estingly enough, be the lack of movement. in the past, teams were quick to pull the trigger and mortgage their future in hopes of hitting a home run or reinvigorating a franchise with a big name deal. These deals often did not work, and in the worst case scenarios, they left a team without young assets and with an aging and over­paid star. 
Teams are now becoming self-aware and unwilling to overpay for a half-year rental of dwight howard or al horford at the hopes of becoming contenders. what is the point in trading away your next six years’ draft picks simply to have stephen curry hit 3-pointer after 3-pointer and knock you out of the playoffs in the second round? instead, big moves can be made in the offseason through free agent acquisitions or trad­ing disgruntled stars after at least a full year of evalua­tion. look forward to roster shakeups not in the heart of winter, but in the heat of the summer. 
Contact R.J. Stempak at rstempak@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PGA | norThern TrusT open 
watson rallies for another win at riviera 
Associated Press 

los angeles — bubba watson ended his big week in 
l.a. as the star of his own show sunday at riviera. 
Two shots behind with four holes to play, watson made bird­ie on two of his last two holes to overtake Jason kokrak and hold off adam scott for a one-shot vic­tory in the northern Trust open. 
watson, who closed with a 3-under 68, won at riviera for the second time in three years and moved back to no. 4 in the world. 
he was among a half-dozen players who still had a chance over the back nine under warm sunshine. watson took advantage of some late mistakes by kokrak, who was going for his first pga Tour victory, and his two birdies were enough to turn back the late heroics of scott, who chipped in for birdie on the 18th for a 67. 
That group of contenders did not include rory mcilroy. 
in his riviera debut, mcilroy made eagle on the par-5 first hole to tie for the lead. he didn’t make a birdie until the 18th, giving him a 75 to tie for 20th. 
watson, scott, kokrak and 
k.J. choi were tied for the lead through 11 holes remaining and all of them dropped shots to fall out of the lead. 
“For me to come back ... and pull one out in a tough way means a lot,” watson said. 
he finished at 15-under 269 for his ninth career victory on the pga Tour. 
kokrak had the lead to himself when choi made bogey on no. 12, scott missed 5-foot par putts on the 14th and 15th holes, and watson went long of the 13th hole and watched his 20-foot par putt spin out of the cup. 
kokrak was firing at dangerous flags and pulling off the shots, stretching his lead to two shots with a daring approach to 4 feet on the 13th. 
but one shot changed the dy­namics of the final hour. 
From the middle of the 15th fairway, kokrak went long on one of the more difficult greens at riviera and badly missed an 8-foot par putt as his lead shrunk to one. watson stuffed his tee shot into 5 feet for birdie on the 16th, and kokrak did well not to lose the lead by making a bend­ing, 6-foot putt to save par from a bunker. 
“you’ve got to eliminate the mental mistakes,” kokrak said. “hitting it in the middle of the green on 15 is just ... i had a two-shot lead at the time.” 
The decisive moment was on the par-5 17th, where watson hit his tee shot so hard that both feet came off the ground. he reached the green with an iron and two-putted for birdie from about 40 feet. kokrak hooked his tee shot into the trees, hit his second into a bunker and had to make a 6-foot par putt, falling one week. 
ahead of them, scott stayed alive with a 10-foot birdie putt on the 17th to get within one shot, and then the former masters champion chipped in from 25 feet behind the green on the 18th, the ball slamming into the pin. That momentarily put him in a tie for the lead until watson made his birdie on the 17th. 
once watson hit his approach to 15 feet, scott knew his chances were over. 
“a guy like bubba, he’s very tough to beat,” scott said. “he’s proving tough to beat from that position. he’s wearing the course out on the toughest day.” 
kokrak had a putt from about the same distance to tie for the lead, but the ball slid by the left side of the cup and he settled for a 68. Two putts later, watson was waving to the crowd and headed to another trophy presentation. 
what a week for watson. he took his 3-year-old son to hang out with Justin bieber. he made a cameo appearance in a “girl meets world” episode (they even gave him a line), and he dashed out of riviera to hang out with his pals at the los angeles clippers-golden state warriors game saturday night. 
best of all was winning another tournament. 
dustin Johnson also was in the mix for much of the day, mak­ing too many bogeys to hold him back. he closed with a 69 and fin­ished fourth, two shots behind. marc leishman of australia, one shot behind for much of the back nine, failed to save par from a bunker on the 16th and closed with a 69 to join choi three shots behind. 
NBA | pacers 105, magic 102 
Ellis, George lift Pacers to 105-102 win 
Associated Press 

orlando, Fla. — monta ellis scored 21 points and paul george added 20 to help the indiana pacers beat the orlando magic 105-102 on sunday night. 
cJ miles and ian mahinmi had 14 points apiece for the pacers who have won four of their last five. Jordan hill add­ed 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
evan Fournier led orlando with 23 points. nikola vucevic added 19 points and 13 re­bounds and victor oladipo had 17 points, eight assists and seven rebounds. 
The magic had the ball trail­ing 103-102 with 9.3 seconds left, but the only shot they got was a forced 3-point attempt by oladipo that wasn’t close. myles Turner rebounded and made two free throws for the final margin. 
indiana led 103-99 going into the final minute of the game, but couldn’t hit another shot. ellis missed a wide-open 3-pointer that led to a dunk by orlando’s aaron gordon, who had 10 points and 11 rebounds. 
george missed again on indiana’s next possession and vucevic made one of two free throws with 30 seconds to play to cut the deficit to 103-102. 
ellis missed again from 18 feet, giving orlando one more chance to win the game. however, after a timeout the magic never got organized at the offensive end. oladipo’s duck-under 3-point attempt was emblematic of their in­ability to get a good shot at critical points in the game. 
The game was close, though not well played throughout. neither team led by more than eight points. indiana had to overcome 21 turnovers, includ­ing 17 in the first half when it shot 56 percent and nine points apiece from reserves cJ miles and Jordan hill. 
Tip-ins 
pacers: pF Turner has aver­aged 13.1 points 7.4 rebounds and 2.3 blocks per game since being inserted in starting line­up 10 games ago. ... indiana is 8-1 in games this season when ellis leads the team in scoring. ... pacers reserves contributed 30 points and 12 rebounds af­ter having only eight points and 11 rebounds in the last game. 
magic: orlando has played 10 straight games against teams with a winning record, going 4-6 in that stretch. ... orlando has lost 11 of its last 12 against indiana. ... magic team president alex martins said the team will make bids to host the all-star game in either 2019 or 2020. ... c vucevic is averaging 
22.8 points and 12.8 rebounds in his last four games. 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 14, bosTon college 4 
ND scores 10 straight goals to down Eagles 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 9 notre dame cruised to a win over no. 11 boston college on sunday, as the irish scored 10 unanswered goals on the way to recording a 14-4 victory at loftus sports center. 
The eagles (2-1, 0-1 acc) had a strong start. after winning the opening draw, they took an early lead following a free position goal from eagles senior midfielder caroline margolis. irish senior attack rachel sexton tied things up for the irish (3-0, 1-0 acc), but another free position goal from eagles junior midfielder mary kate o’neill restored boston college’s lead, 2-1. 
From there, the irish took com­plete control. after giving up those two goals within the first four minutes, the irish did not allow another until the 13th minute of the second half. on the offensive end, the irish scored 10 times in that stretch, including three goals in the last 1:01 of the first half. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny said her team was able to settle into the game, which cre­ated the opportunity to go on that run. 
“it just speaks to our defense fu­eling our offense and our midfield being incredible connectors,” halfpenny said. “once we settled down, we had the opportunity to play them live and not just go from a scout report. we settled in, we played our game, and it’s a standard that we want to contin­ue to play to. 
“The girls are setting the bar which they want to play at, which i’m very excited about. They’re keeping it very focused on our­selves and on each other.” 
halfpenny said she believed her team’s ability to keep pressing into the second half showed their determination. 
“obviously i’m thrilled and so proud of my team’s efforts today from start to finish,” halfpenny said. “i think that the entire team had a great week of preparation again, and we keep on talking about how great weeks of prepa­rations translate into great game days. 


“we’ve talked a lot about focus­ing and having our style, and i think that we really proved our­selves in so many areas today, es­pecially with our determination and our desire to play our brand for 60 minutes. The really neat thing was to find our second gear 
— that second wind we got in the second half, which was really ex­citing — to be able to match the first half in scoring output, fueled by our defense. it was just amaz­ing today.” 
The eagles offense came into the matchup having scored 37 goals in two games, wins over boston university and holy cross, and having converted over half of their shots this season. however, they were unable to come close to those numbers against the irish defense and freshman goalie samantha giacolone. giacolone had 13 saves for the irish, and the eagles only scored on four of their 23 shots. halfpenny said giacolone’s performance shows her potential as a young goalie. 

“we had some different chang­es, some new faces in the lineup today, [graduate student defend­er] barbara [sullivan], [senior de­fender stephanie peragallo] and [senior midfielder] brie [custis] holding down the fort back there with sam giacolone, who [had a save percentage of] 76 percent,” halfpenny said. “but the reality is that as sam continues to settle in, we’re giving her the saves we want her to make. she’s mak­ing most of the saves she should make, she’s making a couple of that next category, and today she had a couple of those momentum one-on-none saves in the second half, and that’s all you can ask of your goalie. she did a great job of handling the ball and making de­cisions in the clear, so i’m really excited about that.” 
although the irish looked in control for most of the game, halfpenny said she felt her team’s performance could always be improved, citing the number of times her team turned the ball over. 
“i’d still like to limit some of these turnovers,” halfpenny said. 
“i think that every player would have liked to get one back, maybe a check from behind or maybe a toss or a pass here or there. but i think the reality is that we played a very aggressive boston college team, and when you look at our 17 turnovers, 12 of them were forced, and they were forced with a great deal of pressure, a great deal of skill to check our sticks, and you have to credit boston college there. you’ve got to credit them for making it really difficult for us. 
“i would consider us to be a nice transition team. i think we take care of the ball really well, i think we work really well together, but they made it really hard for us to­day, and for us to have made the adjustments we did is what i’m excited about. we can still get bet­ter. it’s still February, but i think that if we tighten up a couple of those things, it could be a really fun swing here.” 
The irish will return to action Friday, hosting colorado at loftus sports center at 7 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 6, indiana 1; nd 6, louisville 1 
notre dame rides hot streak to weekend sweep 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame capped off its third and fourth matches of the week by defeating indiana and louisville by identical 6-1 scores saturday and sunday at eck Tennis pavilion. The irish (7-3, 2-0 acc) have now won three consecutive match­es and six of their last seven. 
Two irish players won in both singles and doubles action for notre dame in sunday’s vic­tory over the cardinals (6-4, 0-2 acc): sophomore allison miller and junior mary closs. miller teamed with junior Jane Fennelly to win the first match of the day at no. 3 doubles, 6-0, while closs and doubles partner senior Julie vrabel followed that win with a 6-3 victory of their own at no. 2 doubles. 
miller then competed at no. 
3 singles, winning in straight sets, 7-5, 6-1. closs finished her day with a 6-2, 6-4 win at no. 4 singles. 
senior all-acc performer Quinn gleason, who entered the weekend as the no. 44 singles player in the nation, made quick work of her oppo­nent at no. 1 singles, winning 6-1, 6-2. 
Junior monica robinson was victorious in her no. 2 singles match, 6-1, 6-1, and sophomore brooke broda won at no. 5 singles match, 6-1, 6-2. 
sunday’s action continued notre dame’s strong play from the day before, when the irish downed the hoosiers (6­2, 0-0 big Ten). 
gleason and robinson, the 15th-ranked doubles pairing in the country, cruised to a 6-1 victory at the top doubles position. after closs and vrabel fell at no. 2 doubles, miller and Fennelly teamed up for a 6-4 victory at third doubles to seal the first point of the match for notre dame. 

gleason, robinson, closs, broda and Fennelly all brought home victories for notre dame during the sin­gles portion of the match. miller was the only player to lose saturday, but she fell in a hard-fought match, 2-6, 7-6 (7-5), 10-8. 
The irish will look to contin­ue this momentum through­out acc play, but have a few days to rest after their busy week. notre dame returns to action on Friday, when the team will head to boston college. Following that matchup, the irish will stay in the northeast and take on syracuse on sunday. 



TRACK & FIELD | aleX wilson inviTaTional 
Irish gather momentum heading into ACCs 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
with only one week left before the acc indoor championships, notre dame hosted the alex wilson invitational on saturday, and the irish set set 12 personal records in preparation for the championship meet. 
“as a team today, we had a doz­en personal records set today,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “so we’re peaking right at the right time, so i’m very satis­fied with where my team is right now.” 
Turner said notre dame ac­complished one of its goals for the meet when women’s distance medley relay team of sophomore Jessica harris and seniors danielle aragon, margaret bamgbose and molly seidel qualified for the ncaa championships. 
“The women, we knew they were going to run very, very well, and we ran about 11 [min­utes] flat … which is right where i thought we would run,” Turner said. “we could have run a little bit faster, molly [seidel] went down and ran the anchor leg in the 1600-meter, and that’s like an all-out sprint for her. so she doesn’t have quite the foot speed, but anything longer than that she’s lights out. she did what she needed to do, and we got the qualifying time for nationals.” 
before seidel’s anchor, aragon led off with the 1200-meter run while bamgbose and harris rounded out the event with the 400-meter dash and the 800-me­ter run legs, respectively. 
Turner said the men’s dis­tance medley relay squad also put together a strong showing over the weekend. The team of juniors Jacob dumford, harvey smith, patrick o’connell and christopher marco finished with a time of 9:31.20 which was sixth at the meet but stands 11th nationally. 
“i’m very happy with the re­sults today, especially my men’s men’s distance medley relay,” Turner said. “i didn’t expect a lot out of them today — we were ba­sically running just to be in the fast heat of the acc meet, but it looks like we may be on the verge of going to nationals, which was something i didn’t even think about at all.” 
Turner also said both his men’s and women’s 800-meter runners’ performances at the alex wilson invitational put them in a good position to make an impact in the acc championship meet. 
“[The 800-meter runners] ran very well today,” Turner said. “[Junior] Jamie marvil had a [per­sonal best] today. [sophomore] kirk hansen had a big [personal best] today, and those times are some good solid times.” 
in the field events, junior nathan richartz took first place in the pole-vault with a personal record of 5.43 meters and junior thrower anthony shivers broke the school-record with a mark of 

20.07 meters in the weight throw. Turner said he was especially ex­cited for shivers, who has come close to breaking the school re­cord all season. 
“i’ve talked about shivers all season long,” Turner said. “he finally got over 20 meters and broke our school record. i gave him the [performer] of the meet. There’s a lot of them, but he’s the only one that actually broke a school record, so i’m happy for him. a lot of meets we had here other guys were throwing over 20 [meters] and for whatever reason he didn’t get to that mark, but today he got after it and finally broke the school record.” 


The irish also saw two familiar faces at the invitational as notre dame alumni chris giesting, ’15, and rebecca Tracy, ’13, partici­pated in the meet. giesting won the 200-meter dash and came in second in the 400-meters, while Tracy set a personal-best mile time, finishing in 4:32.71. Turner said he likes seeing alumni race because it boosts the confidence of his current student-athletes. 
“it speaks volumes about this place, that we have alums who come back and run so well,” Turner said. “giesting is one of my volunteer assistants, along with Jade barber and pat Feeney. … having the alumni here and training and then coming back, that speaks volumes to the kids on the team now, who say ‘wow, look at all these people running professionally. if they can do it, i can too.’ it just helps elevate our program all around.” 
The irish head to the acc indoor championships next weekend, and after his team’s performance, Turner said his team should be confident going into the conference meet. 
“we’re where we need to be, we really are,” Turner said. “i’m excited for next week.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
“we talked about coming out strong and wanted to lock in and make sure we were successful in doing so,” soph­omore attack mikey wynne said. “playing with a lead is much nicer than playing from behind, so we put a lot of energy and focus into com­ing out and taking a quick lead.” 
perkovic, a first-team all­american last season, scored a game-high four goals. senior all-american attack matt kavanagh scored a goal early in the second quarter and added a game-high four assists. Junior midfielder p.J. Finley lead the irish in the face-off battle, winning 16 of 21 face offs. 
wynne, who scored six goals against the hoyas in last season’s opener, added another three goals for the irish. wynne, who scored 33 goals last season, said he credits his success against georgetown to his team­mates’ ability to get him in scoring position. 
“i have the same approach to every game, not just georgetown,” wynne said. “i always look at the film and scouting reports that our coaches out together and try to take advantage where i can. my teammates played extremely well and put me in situations to score goals, so a lot of the credit goes to them.” 
Junior goalie shane doss also had a solid performance, tallying 14 saves, including six in the first quarter. it took the hoyas some time to find their offense, but down 7-3 at the start of the third quar­ter, junior midfielder peter its development throughout the season will only make the team better than the ranking it owns, he said. 


“i don’t think being num­ber one had any effect on us as a team going into the georgetown game,” wynne said. “it’s an honor to be ranked there, but we know that ranking doesn’t mean anything until the end of the year. if anything, we just wanted to get out and play and prove we are the stron­gest team in the country.” 
notre dame will host bellarmine on wednesday in its home opener at arlotta stadium at 5 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
ALARISSE LAM | The Observer 

Irish senior attack Matt Kavanagh attempts to shake an Air Force defender during an exhibition game Jan. 30. Kavanagh registered a hat trick for the Irish during their win over Georgetown on Saturday. 
conley and freshman attack daniel bucaro tallied two goals to shrink the deficit to two goals. conley and bucaro led the hoyas offense with two goals apiece, but it took them 15 shots combined to score four goals. 
early in the fourth quarter, the irish and hoyas traded goals, but in the final four minutes of the game, fresh­man long-stick midfielder hugh crance and wynne added the final two goals to secure the victory. 
The irish aren’t intimi­dated with living up to the no. 1 ranking, wynne said. despite committing several errors against georgetown 
— which resulted in 15 turn­overs — notre dame believes 
Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
goals. 
irish senior center steven Fogarty scored the team’s only goal of the night at the 15:48 mark of the second period, cut­ting providence’s lead in half before the third period. 
in the final frame, notre dame was able to get 18 shots on net, but providence junior goaltender nick ellis denied them all while guiding his team to victory. 
“i felt we played better to­night than we did last night,” Jackson said saturday. “we could’ve easily cashed it in af­ter the way we lost last night, but our guys came back. i thought they played with a lot of character tonight.” 
The irish will look to get back on track when they return home for a season-ending se­ries against boston university. 
The no. 9 Terriers (18-9-5, 11-5-4), tied for fourth place in hockey east with umass lowell, sit just four points be­hind the irish in the standings. both teams will be fighting for a place in the top four of the final hockey east rankings in search of a bye in the first round of the conference tournament. 


“you never know how the schedule’s going to work out,” Jackson said. “considering how it worked out, it’s a tough final four games for us. i’ve been noticing that for a while 
— even though we’re focused on the next game, and that’s all we really need to do. bu is an­other great team. it’ll be a real challenging game next Friday night, and we just have to pre­pare for it.” 
notre dame will return to action at 7:35 p.m. Friday night when the irish host boston university at compton Family ice arena. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 




W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
which clinched a double bye in the conference tournament for the squad. 
The irish defense was in full force against the demon deacons, holding them to more than eight points below notre dame’s average points allowed (60.3). wake Forest’s 52-point output also marked the 13th straight irish opponent to score fewer than 70 points and the sixth in the past seven games to score 61 or fewer. 
“we played some man, we played some zone [against wake Forest],” mcgraw said. “we got out on the shooters — the only 3s they got came at the end of the game when we had subbed people. i was just really pleased.” 
long known for high-octane 
offense,  mcgraw’s  team  has  
grown on the  defensive  end  
throughout  the  season.  The  

irish rank 103rd in the nation in scoring defense, but they top the acc, allowing the fewest points per game in conference play. 
That defensive prowess will be important against Florida state, who sits right behind notre dame in points scored per conference game and field goal percentage and ahead of the irish in rebounding and assists. 
“They’re ahead of us is a lot of categories,” mcgraw said. “it should be a good game, a good offensive game.” 
sophomore forward brianna Turner will likely be tasked with containing bulgak and Thomas as she comes off one of her best 



paid adverTisemenT 
games of the season. Turner put up 19 points, 11 rebounds and three blocks against wake Forest for her second double-double of the year. 
she is also the main reason notre dame ranks 38th in the 
M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 

a tie-up, possession was awarded to the yellow Jackets, who called timeout with 10.4 seconds to play. georgia Tech went to its best player after the stoppage, as se­nior guard marcus georges-hunt spun past irish junior guard steve vasturia and drove to the basket for a contested short jumper. 
“even though steve got a pretty good chest on [georges-hunt], he’s so physical and strong,” brey said. 
with the loss, notre dame was dealt a crucial blow in its quest for a double-bye in the acc tourna­ment. with the top four teams securing byes, the irish now sit in a tie for fifth with no. 20 duke. notre dame is now two games behind no. 5 north carolina and a game behind no. 11 miami (Fla.), no. 7 virginia and no. 18 louisville with two and a half weeks until the tournament begins. 
georgia Tech improved to 11-5 at home with the win. although a tough loss for the irish, the yellow Jackets may be better than their record indicates: eight of their nine acc losses have been by single digits. 
The georgia Tech offense mainly revolved around georges­hunt, who led the yellow Jackets with 19 points in a team-high 40 minutes. georges-hunt was aid­ed in securing the win by a host of his senior teammates in red-shirt senior forward nick Jacobs, senior forward charles mitchell and graduate student guard nation in blocked shots per game. her 3.45 blocks per game ranks seventh in the ncaa, though she will have to match up against a frontcourt in which no player shoots below 49.4 per­cent from the field. 
The irish and the seminoles face off at 7 p.m. monday at donald l. Tucker civic center in Tallahassee, Florida. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 


adam smith. Jacobs scored nine points and grabbed 12 rebounds, while mitchell and smith scored 14 and nine points, respectively. 
brey referenced the yellow Jackets’ veteran makeup as being a key for georgia Tech. 
“They’re old, and they’re men,” brey said. “They’re physical. we had a hard time dealing with them in the post with those big guys early.” 
The irish were led by junior forward v.J. beachem and senior forward Zach auguste in the loss, who each scored 13 points. Jackson scored 12 on just 5-13 shooting, while sophomore for­ward bonzie colson added 10 points. 
For the third straight game, the irish hurt their chances early. This time, it was due to cold shoot­ing and more first-half turnovers (6) than assists (3). notre dame closed the gap steadily in the sec­ond half, as it cut georgia Tech’s lead to 46-45 with 11:33 left in the game following a beachem three-pointer. auguste gave the irish its first lead since 3-2 just one pos­session later with a layup. 
later that half, the irish went up by as much as 60-54 before fading down the stretch. 
“we dug ourselves out of a hole,” brey said. “we gave our­selves a chance.” 
notre dame will look to re­bound wednesday when it hits the road again to take on a strug­gling wake Forest team, which has lost its last 11 games. Tip-off is set for 9 p.m. at lawrence Joel veterans memorial coliseum. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | georgia Tech 63, nd 62 
Notre Dame stung late against Georgia Tech 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
after trailing at the half re­cently against both north carolina and louisville, no. 19 notre dame looked like it was going to pull off its third straight come-from-behind victory after storming back from seven down at georgia Tech on saturday. 
That wouldn’t be the case, however, as the yellow Jackets (15-12, 5-9 acc) went on a 9-2 run to end the game, including the game-winning bucket with two second left, to beat the irish (18-8, 9-5 acc), 63-62. 
“They made clutch plays,” irish head coach mike brey said. “we just couldn’t get that last stop.” 
The winning basket came after the irish missed a chance to extend their one point lead on junior guard demetrius Jackson’s missed jumper. after 
see m bball PAGE 15 


HOCKEY | providence 3, nd 2 (oT); providence 3, nd 1 
nd falls twice in important series 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame fell twice to con­ference rival providence on the road this weekend, dropping from first to third in the hockey east standings in the process. 
The no. 7 irish (18-7-7, 14-4-2 hockey east) blew a two-goal lead Friday night before losing 3-1 saturday to the no. 5 Friars (23-5-4, 14-3-3). 
what had the makings of an important road victory on Friday night turned into a “dis­appointing” loss, irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“i thought we came out strong,” Jackson said Friday. “i thought we did a great job in the first two periods. They came heavy, but we played sound — at least until the pen­alties started happening. you wear guys out when guys are playing too many minutes. it starts catching up to you.” 
Freshman left wing dylan malmquist put the irish on the board early against providence on Friday, netting a goal at 
5:50 into the first period. sophomore center Jake evans extended his team’s lead late in the second period with a goal of his own. 
The defending national champion Friars did not give up, though, scoring a pair of goals on sophomore goaltender cal petersen late in the third period to force overtime. 
providence senior forward Trevor mingoia scored the game-winning goal on a re­bound following a save by petersen at 1:23 into the over­time period, lifting the Friars past the irish. 
Then, on saturday night, providence and notre dame skated to another close fin­ish. The Friars halted an irish comeback attempt late in the third period when providence senior forward kevin rooney put his team back up by two 
see hockey PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

squad readies for Fsu, final stretch 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
only three games remain in the regular season for no. 2 notre dame, but they will come in a flurry over the coming week, as the irish try to lock up their third straight acc regular season title. 
That stretch begins monday, as the irish (25-1, 13-0) travel to Tallahassee, Florida, to face no. 10 seminoles. Florida state (21­5, 11-2) is notre dame’s ninth and final ranked opponent this year. 
“They’re one of the best in the conference, one of the best in the country,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said of the seminoles. “They’ve got a big margin, something like [14.2] on the boards. They’re an aggres­sive team, they’re talented.” 
That rebounding margin ranks fourth in the country, as does their average scor­ing margin (20.4) — one spot ahead of notre dame. They are led by senior center adut bulgak and sophomore for­ward shakayla Thomas, who both average more than 13 
points and five rebounds per 
game.  
mcgraw  highlighted  
Thomas  as  a  particularly  
tough matchup.  

“she’s just so hard to guard, especially coming off the bench like she does,” mcgraw said. 
The seminoles are coming off just their second confer­ence loss of the year, as they fell behind early against no. 23 syracuse and never re­covered, falling 83-73. but before that contest, Florida state had won 11 consecu­tive conference games, a program record, and the team has yet to lose at home this season, posting a perfect 14-0 record. 
“They’re coming off a loss … so they will be really ready for us,” mcgraw said. “playing on the road, in front of a big crowd … we need to be sure we’re ready as well.” 
notre dame, on the other hand, is coming off a vic­tory, having beaten wake Forest on the road this past Thursday. The irish never trailed in the 86-52 win, 
see w bball PAGE 15 

MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 12, georgeTown 7 
Irish dominate Hoyas  to kickstart season 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 

no. 1 notre dame walked away victorious in its season opener for the 14th consecu­tive season saturday, and for the second straight year the team’s first win came against no. 13 georgetown. 
The irish (1-0) traveled to kennesaw state university to take on the hoyas (0-1), and after getting off to a fast start offensively, the irish cruised to a 12-7 win. 
notre dame wasted no time getting on the board. Junior all-american mid­fielder sergio perkovic split two georgetown defenders and fired a shot from about 20 yards out to give the irish a 1-0 lead about two minutes into the opening quarter. later in the quarter, the irish scored three straight goals in a little more than three minutes to give them a 4-0 lead heading into the second quarter. 
The four-goal advantage gave the irish a lead they would not relinquish for the rest of the contest. 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 

ALARISSE LAM | The Observer 

Irish All-American junior midfielder Sergio Perkovic protects the ball from two Air Force defenders during an exhibition game Jan. 30. 




