The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 81 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Council bars campaign 
Robinson-Blais presidential bid suspended until Tuesday 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
news editor 
Judicial council issued a press release early Friday morn­ing announcing the “complete suspension” of junior corey robinson’s campaign until 12 
a.m. Tuesday. 
robinson, a receiver on the university football team, and sophomore rebecca Blais are candidates for student body president and vice president, respectively. 
The suspension comes as a result of supposed violations of section 17.1(d) of the student union constitution. The sec­tion details the specific times and places candidates may campaign for the student body election. 
“section 17.1(d) was violated due to an interview which was conducted with a media out­let before campaigning could constitutionally begin; this in­terview was determined to con­stitute campaigning,” Judicial council said in the press release. 
The campaign period official­ly began Jan. 26 when Judicial council announced the three tickets that had received suffi­cient petition signatures to se­cure a spot on the ballot in next wednesday’s election. 
Juniors louis Bertolotti and elizabeth Fenton as well as juniors dominic alberigi and Jennifer cha will also appear on the ballot. 
Judicial council declined to answer which interview led to the allegations filed last week, however a number of local and national media outlets 
see campaign PAGE 3 



NDI implements new policy 

Speaker explores potential of cochlear implants 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news writer 
The communicative sciences and disorders department at saint mary’s hosted a lecture on cochle­ar implants by board certified au­diologist, Jason p. wigand. wigand is an assistant professor and clini­cal director of the cochlear implant program at the university of south carolina. 
wigand himself has a bilat­eral cochlear implant, an im­plant on each ear. his lecture, “From candidacy to implantation through rehabilitation,” focused 
see lecTure PAGE 4 


By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
notre dame international (ndi) is implementing a new policy beginning in the fall 2016 semester, under which the university will no longer pay airfare for students studying abroad during a semester. This change allows more students to study abroad. 
Tom guinan, associate vice president for administrative operations for notre dame international, said this change was made in an attempt to in­crease acceptance rates for students applying to study abroad. 
“86 percent of applicants got offered acceptances into the program this year, and we were down, you can see from just two years ago, it was closer to 70 percent, which is terrible,” guinan said. “For kids who are qualified and able to go, we did not want to turn away 30 percent of the students … our goal is to have 90 percent or more acceptance, with the limitations being just capacity in a program.” 
Junior Frank wamsley, who, along with guinan, gave a presentation about this change to the student senate in november, said the lower ac­ceptance rates were due 
see aBroad PAGE 3 




Lecturer examines Shakespeare legacy 
By MEGHAN SULLIVAN 
news writer 
Throughout January, the university hosted the First Folio exhibit, which is a col­lection of shakespearean works, and held perfor­mances, tours and lectures to celebrate the Folio. 
michael witmore, director of the Folger shakespeare library, concluded the “Folio Fridays” lecture series last Friday with his talk entitled “centuries of shakespeare.” 
“The Folger is celebrat­ing the 400th anniversary of shakespeare’s death, and that anniversary is part of what inspires my visit to­day,” witmore said. 
“Four centuries is a long time in literary history, and in theatre history, the name shakespeare has become synonymous with longevity.” 
witmore credited this lon­gevity in part to the printed press. 
“an actor can memorize lines from a play, and a scribe can write them down, but a printing press can ensure that these words are carried far and wide,” he said. “The introduction of print was the first major media revolution that we know, and the First Folio is a landmark in this longer history.” 
he said the repeatability of words is important and that the printed press was the first step in allowing words to be repeated. he contended that shakespeare himself was a great repeater, and he cited many words that have been accredited to shakespeare but that actu­ally have origins in earlier works. 
“if you find one of those webpages that lists all of the words that shakespeare coined or created, you should say to yourself, ‘shakespeare gladly took these from some­body else,’” witmore said. 
The re-creation of shakespeare’s is important and contributes to his lega­cy, he mentioned. 
“Being for the century means not only that your words are repeated, but that they’re repeated in new ways,” witmore said. 
witmore said shakespeare’s plays have been adapted in a variety of mediums, such as films, 
see Folio PAGE 4 


news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 men’s BasKeTBall PAGE 12 FooTBall PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who do you think is going to win the Super Bowl? 


ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 


Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndmscobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 




Joe Faulkner 
sophomore Zahm house 
“super cam.” 

Shailen Naick 
junior Zahm house 
“Beyoncé.” 

Chris Bowers 
freshman Zahm house 
“Broncos.” 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 


Henri Ulander 
senior Fisher hall 
“panthers.” 

Lydia Costello 
freshman lyons hall 
“panthers.” 

Maddie Coole 
freshman lyons hall 
“Broncos.” 

Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
“No Cross, No  Lecture: “Beyond the  Christ for the Curious  Yoga in the Galleries  Indoor Track  
Crown”  Pub”  Coleman-Morse  Snite Museum of Art  and Field: Meyo  
Snite Museum of Art  Geddes Hall  Center  4 p.m-5 p.m.  Invitational  
all day  8:30 a.m.-9:30 a.m.  7 p.m-8 p.m.  Mats will be provided  Loftus Sports Center  
Print exhibition by  Learn about  Fire-side chat series  for this free and  all day  
James Barry.  community in Dublin.  on the life of Jesus.  relaxing class.  Friday and Saturday.  
“African American  Workshop: “Getting  Film: “The Organizer”  “Islam and ISIS”  Labor Café  
Voices”  Started in Research”  DeBartolo Performing  Mendoza College of  Geddes Hall  
Snite Museum of Art  Brownson Hall  Arts Center  Business  5 p.m.-6 p.m.  
all day  4 p.m.-5 p.m.  8 p.m. & 10:10 p.m.  8 p.m.-9:30 p.m.  Casual conversation  
African-American  Learn how to start a  Monicelli’s historical  Reza Aslan will speak  on work, inequality and  
artwork exhibition.  creative endeavor.  drama.  and answer questions.  social justice.  

letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 


Students discuss ‘colorblindness’ 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday community, the recognition of diversity is as the norm. 
except during exam and vacation periods. By ALLISON SANCHEZ 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one news writer a necessity. “i don’t watch Tv often, but when i do 
semester. 

The observer is published at: “you have to acknowledge that some-i’m constantly appalled by the abundance 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-0779 The saint mary’s Justice education one is different than you to move forward. of all white commercials,” shambery 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 

posTmasTer program hosted a panel of students who To get all the best perspectives, you have said.“ i rarely see people of color. i rarely 
send address corrections to: 

The observer discussed the importance of recogniz-to acknowledge diversity and that you see interracial couples. i rarely see queer 
p.o. Box 779 

024 south dining hall ing diversity in our everyday lives and the come from different backgrounds and couples. i rarely see muslims or Jews or 
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. media, as part of the Justice Friday series. have different experiences.” disabled people. i rarely see commercials 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

The conversation was led by seniors shambery noted how important it is to of poor black kids in america. i rarely see Taylr davis and courtney lamar, junior see people as who they are, rather than la-reports of hispanic, of Black kids going caylin mccallick and sophomore alex beling them by the color of their skin. missing.” shambery. “yes, i‘m black, but just because i’m lamar also commented on how im­

lamar explained there are a lot of black no one should assume they know portant it is to normalize diversity in the aspects that makeup the concept of me, what i stand for or what i’ve been media 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen alex carson diversity. through just by looking at my skin tone,” “seeing underrepresented people rachel o’grady marek mazurek 
“diversity includes all aspects [of a she said. “i think that’s something that’s in the media shouldn’t be shocking … 
megan valley victoria llorens 

person] whether that’s race, gender, so-very important to think about when we movies shouldn’t focus on stereotypical 

Graphics Scene 

cioeconomic status, sexual preference, et talk about whether or not we believe in struggles of [black people], that creates a 
lauren weldon Jimmy Kemper 

cetera.” the idea of being colorblind.” stigma about it.” 

Photo Viewpoint 

when asked about the validity of the mccallick said people benefit from lamar said there is hope for the future 
mary o’neill claire radler 

term “colorblind,” davis said that concept both their personal and professional and she has already seen some positive can be misconstrued to promote hatred. lives by engaging with diverse groups of examples of diversity in modern media. “i truly believe that if you teach people people. “i see good influences with the 

Corrections 

that seeing others is not about the color “groups that are diverse [explore] more Buzzfeed and Facebook videos and their 
The observer regards itself as of your skin then yes, people can use the avenues because people are coming from incorporation of different types of people a professional publication and 
idea of being ‘colorblind,’” davis said. all these different intersections in their into their videos,” she said. “These videos strives for the highest standards 
“however, many people use it as a crutch lives and are seeing things from differ-relate to our generation, are very popular 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

... They use it to say, ‘oh, i don’t see color’ ent perspectives, which allows a group and can influence our generation into be-
however, recognize that we will make 

but then they go off and do something to solve more problems and think more coming more diverse and open. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
racist so i feel like it doesn’t have an equal creatively.” 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so proponent.” The panel also focused on the influence Contact Allison Sanchez at  
we can correct our error. lamar said in order to progress as a media has in perpetuating white culture asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

ndsmcoBserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | The oBserver 


Abroad 
conTinued From page 1 
to ndi’s budget not being in­creased in the past several years while the cost of sending stu­dents abroad has risen. 
“The amount of money that notre dame international gets to send students abroad has stayed the same, however, the costs for sending students abroad … have gone up over the years, and as a result, they’ve had to decline more people in the application process,” wansley said. “[guinan] and his team at ndi decided that the one thing that they could fore­see cutting out and having the least amount of impact was the cost of the overseas flights.” 
cutting airfare not only made sense in comparison to other expenses covered by the university, guinan said, but it also would fit more with the pol­icies of other schools through­out the country. 
“we found that really there are no other schools that actually fund airfare the way we had in the past, and i think it was something that we had been interested in looking at,” he said. “when we were looking at ways to have more resources to send students abroad, there were three things that we con­sidered … one was tuition that we pay to the school, one was lodging and one was airfare.” 
guinan also said the possible ramifications of this policy for students who may not be able to afford overseas flights were carefully considered before making a final decision. 

“Just based on the fact that the summer programs are so popu­lar and the students pay airfare for summer programs, we said let’s see if there’s a way that we can make sure the students who are on financial aid aren’t cut out of it because of the airfare component,” he said. “as long as we can assure that the financial aid’s available to the students, we think we should be able to kind of have a win-win situation where the cost of the plane tick­et will actually be able to send 35 to 40 more students abroad a year.” 
while he understands and supports ndi’s decision now, wamsley said he wishes the ad­ministration had been clearer with students about the deci­sion-making process. 
“i think something that’s lacking in the administration’s decision-making is how they’re going to relay news and informa­tion that pertains to students to the students,” he said. “whether it’s holding a town hall meeting to explain big changes that ap­ply to students or using the stu­dent senate and hall presidents’ council…i think that the ad­ministration ought to find more ways to convey the reasons for the things they do with the stu­dent body.” 
sophomore meghan santella, who will be studying abroad at 



Campaign 
conTinued From page 1 
including The observer, espn and Bleacher report reported robinson’s candidacy the day it was announced. 
Both the Bertolotti-Fenton and alberigi-cha tickets re­leased statements sunday night in response to the sanctions. 
“it is always a shame to see an allegation filed, especially this early into the campaign,” Trinity college in dublin dur­ing next fall said she would have appreciated more of an explana­tion for the change. 
“we got an email over the sum­mer, i think, and then i didn’t re­ally think too much about it, but i didn’t understand why they were doing it,” santella said. “i feel like if [ndi] explained [the reasoning], that would’ve been more beneficial for them.” 
santella said despite the change, having to pay for the airfare didn’t affect her decision to study abroad. 
“i wasn’t going to not do it be­cause of [the airfare],” she said. “notre dame’s so good to me for financial aid, just in general, that honestly, if they won’t pay airfare, it’s not a big deal, they’re already doing so much for me.” 
guinan emphasized his hope that acceptance levels won’t be affected by any extra costs and students will seek help, if necessary. 
“i’m excited that we were able to send out so many acceptanc­es, and i hope that the students are excited, as well,” he said. “The acceptances or the deci­sions from the students are ac­tually due on monday, and [we] expect that we’ll see 800 plus acceptances or that most of the students will accept.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
the Bertolotti-Fenton ticket said in the statement. “our ticket has the utmost respect for the constitution of the stu­dent union, and we hope that it will be respected for the re­mainder of the campaign by every candidate and by what­ever administration eventu­ally takes office.” 
The alberigi-cha ticket said they hope to avoid further distractions throughout the remainder of the campaign period. 
“it saddens us to see the fair election process broken down by violations, because they distract from the candidates’ platforms,” the alberigi-cha ticket said. “all of us have in­triguing ideas to offer, which should be presented to the students in an honest man­ner. we truly believe that ideas, passion and capability should ultimately determine who wins this election, and we trust our peers to vote in the best interest of the irish family. 
“we sincerely hope that the remainder of the campaign period will be conducted with greater fairness and respect.” 
The student body debate will take place next monday Feb. 8 in the basement of laFortune student center, and the elec­tion will occur wednesday Feb. 10. 
The robinson-Blais cam­paign did not respond to The observer’s request for a comment. 


Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 



The oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 




Lecture 
conTinued From page 1 
on his own personal experience with cochlear implants and the process of getting an implant. 
wigand said he was an roTc student in college but failed a hearing test and was medically discharged. he said his doctors believe he had an inner ear at­tack in 1993. 
“in the four to six years be­fore i failed my hearing test my hearing was getting worse bit by bit,” wigand said. over the course of about four years his hearing got progressively worse, he said. 
wigand said he received his first implant at yale university in 2005 after an audiologist at an ear, nose and throat (enT) group in connecticut suggest­ed cochlear implants. 
“i ended up looking for an­other pair of the best hearing aids because my hearing was going quickly. so i get the hear­ing aids ... and end up going for a new pair and the audiologist said, ‘has anyone talked to you about cochlear implants?,’ i had heard about them, by this time it was 2004, but didn’t know a lot.” 
wigand received his under­graduate degree in manage­ment and worked for Fedex for 15 years when he found him­self tired of the job. he said he learned about the field of au­diology when he began a new career at ohio state university. 
“i had a great career … you just find yourself not wanting the next step. so i get an op­portunity to go to ohio as a re­gional manager. Basically i find myself in the same position … 78 hour weeks, i didn’t like it … so i started doing some testing as a subject at ohio state with a researcher and after a couple months he was looking for a re­search assistant and i thought, ‘i want to do this, i really like this, i want to know more,’” wigand said. 
he said he then talked to pro­fessors at ohio state and went back to school to become an audiologist. 
wigand said a cochlear im­plant is surgically placed on the round window of the inner ear, which is behind the eye. The implant bypasses the in­ner ear and goes directly to the nerve that sends the signal to the brain. 
wigand said that for an adult to qualify for a cochlear im­plant, the adult has to meet requirements medically, with speech intelligibility and have a moderate to severe or pro­found sensorineural hearing loss. 
“in adults, the criterion has changed over the past 10 years, initially you had to be severe to profound hearing loss,” he said. “The conversation [of get­ting a cochlear implant] starts when they are not doing well with their hearing aids.” 
Contact Alex Winegar at awine01@saintmarys.edu 



Folio 
conTinued From page 1 
different theatre produc­tions, for example plays act­ed out on tabletops with salt and pepper shakers. 
“shakespeare’s works are always on their way to be­coming something else, which is an excellent way of sticking around,” he said. 
There are many new mediums through which shakespeare’s plays are told, witmore said. 
“Being for the centu­ries also means being for new mediums,” he said. “whether its television, vid­eo, microbes or the humble printed book, new technolo­gies often prove their worth by showing that they can reproduce shakespeare’s words, his characters and stories.” 
Just as the meanings of shakespeare’s word shift, so do the ways people celebrate his legacy, witmore said. 
“The long afterlife of shakespeare depends on the possibility that whatever was sent to posterity in the moment of this man’s death would be misunderstood, which is another way of say­ing adapted and creatively remade,” he said. 
“every century has to mis­understand shakespeare in its own way, and we ought to be judged by the temper of that misunderstanding.” 
witmore raised his con­cerned regarding today’s changing media. 
“a printed book can sur­vive for hundreds of years; digital media can become unplayable within decades,” witmore noted. 
witmore said he believes more needs to be done with shakespeare in the present day. 
“i’m here tonight because i believe that we have more work to do when it comes to shakespeare,” he explained. “whether it’s to misunder­stand in interesting ways, or simply to try to catch up with where he seems to be taking us. 
“i think and hope that shakespeare is part of the broader trend of thinking inclusively when it comes to culture … [and] our re­search and our collection could be tapped to inspire teaching of the performing arts and humanities.” 
witmore suggests shakespeare is seemingly and deeply connected to the contemporary issues our so­ciety is facing. 
“Think, for a moment, about what we struggle with today,” witmore said. “sectarian violence, eco­nomic inequality, environ­mental degradation, media change. shakespeare lived in an age that saw very simi­lar upheavals, not only in the mass communications challenge presented by the printed book, but in ideas about the dignity of the in­dividual, about freedom of conscious and expression. 
“shakespeare’s london world is a world of urban­ization, crime, intelligence, networks, mercantilist stock exchanges and a new form of secular entertainment called theatre. part of what makes shakespeare’s sto­ries resonate with us today is the fact that the world he was writing about was in the process of becoming our own. 
“we can only hope the subsequent centuries of shakespeare will find their own way of beautifully, creatively misunderstand­ing his work, which is the best way to make it rich and strange.” 

Contact Meghan Sullivan at msulli41@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 



Bobby Wozniak 
scene writer 
i was at first a little reluctant to take on an article re­volving around the extremely controversial and socially relevant concept of white privilege. we live in a country where there are constant divides and debates about the realities of racial inequalities in our nation. Though it seems the dialogue has been very much present in the past year or so, many have attempted to ignore, oppress and quench the fire that is the Black lives matter (Blm) movement. “But all lives matter,” they say. 
cue macklemore and ryan lewis’s “white privilege ii,” a nearly nine minute anthem featuring the incred­ibly talented black poet and social activist Jamila woods that shines a heavy spotlight on white privilege and supremacy. as expected, the song kick-started a series of debates behind the authenticity of the message and macklemore’s intentions. some claim he was “trying too hard” while others praised him for “starting the con­versation” on the reality of white privilege. and, as also expected, the white supremacists continued to claim that white privilege does not exist. 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 
if there is anything to be heeded from aqueous-set films it’s this: never, under any circumstances, trust a boating trip on the ocean. it is our human nature to challenge the elements, get cocky about our dominion and throw cau­tion to the wind. But there’s always some kind of angry ex­ternal force out there — pick your poison for the particulars 
— ready to remind the overzealous of their insignificance and mortality. 
of course, the characters in christopher smith’s “Triangle,” an ambitious, disorienting psychological thrill­er that leaves viewers even more stunned after the credits than during its confounding m.c. escherian plot, either haven’t watched enough movies, or otherwise, like their chances against the external forces they’re unknowingly pitting themselves against. 
The film opens with Jess, the single mother of an autistic son, preparing for a day trip on her friend greg’s sailboat. Jess is visibly exhausted, and the prospect of even a short getaway seems more than welcome. Joining her and greg on the sterile expedition is a handful of greg’s friends. while the film starts out slow in pace and almost repetitive in dialog, smith does his damnedest to both establish and hammer home the relations of the characters and, most important, the axis of Jess’s existence: her son, Tommy. 
shortly into their trip, an eerie storm quickly material­izes and capsizes the boat, and forces the group onto a just as eerie, just as quickly materialized ocean liner. once on 
The song begins with macklemore joining a Blm march and immediately asking, “should i even be here marching?” There is an evident conflict in supporting the Blm movement as a white person; i want to stand up and fight for those who have been marginalized and oppressed for countless years, but i do not want it to seem like i am speaking on behalf of a group of people that have experienced hardships that i will never understand. 
macklemore makes one point clear from the get-go: this song is for white people. Black people do not need to hear about white privilege, as they are the ones con­stantly experiencing the injustices that are produced from it. This “conversation” that macklemore is appar­ently starting was started years ago but has been con­tinuously ignored due to the fact that black people were the ones initiating it. now that a white man has come to the forefront of society and spoken his mind about the matter, white people are finally starting to listen. This fact is unfortunate, but it is true, demonstrating just how necessary “white privilege ii” is at this moment in our society. 
cultural appropriation is running rampant in this country, especially when it has to do with black culture. 
the liner, the shipwrecked survivors explore what appears to be an abandoned series of corridors and floors, save for one unseen, ominous presence. 
what happens next can’t properly be arranged and de­scribed, as it does not, and cannot, logically make sense. The film’s twisting plot is constructed impossibly as to convey a harrowing sense of confusion and futility. Try as you might, there is no way to piece back together the scenes that follow into a neat timeline. as frustrating as this may sound on the surface, the experience smith builds abso­lutely achieves the feelings he wishes to suggest. 
using mirrors and surface reflections wherever he can, smith creates a much larger and completely disorienting landscape out of the relatively small and claustrophobic few areas of the ship the group explores. he saves certain angles and perspectives of rooms until the last act, to reveal new information up until the film’s final shot. 
as a result, you can’t take anything for granted at first glance. what you think is familiar is challenged repeatedly until you are not only guessing what you think you know, but also what you are sure you know based on previous scenes. 
still, the film is completely insular — and not just in its confined physical space. as Jess moves from her home to the pier to the sailboat, smith is very careful to reference extremely little of the outside world. This helps to con­tribute to the devastation of the russian-doll-like series of reveals, the internal conditions feeling more and more inescapable and impossible without exterior reference points. as the film progressively unveils its truths, it falls macklemore repeats, “we take all we want from black culture, but will we show up for black lives?” he bravely calls out miley cyrus, elvis and iggy azalea for stealing cultural aspects from black people in pursuit of their own self-interest. The hope is that the entirety of white society will hear this song and recognize how incredibly unfair our world is. we ignore what is blatantly happen­ing around us in fear of sacrificing our own benefits. we turn our heads to lost opportunities, lost experiences and lost lives because we cannot bear the thought of los­ing our advantages. our silence is a luxury that no one can afford anymore. 

“white privilege ii” is necessary, but it says noth­ing groundbreaking. if we open our eyes to the world we have created for ourselves, macklemore’s “insight” is simply common observation that has been ob­served time and time again. instead of acknowledging macklemore for “starting the conversation,” we must address the conversation that has existed long before the birth of america and work toward justice. 
Contact Bobby Wozniak at rwozniak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
further and further into a blackening, pinhole-sized abyss. Throughout the movie, there are hints of the gravity of the plot, but none is more shattering than the sight of one of the characters dying in a mass pile of her already dead bodies. 
playing Jess, melissa george carries the bulk of the emo­tional weight and delivers alternating bursts of quiet sor­row and glazed-over determination. unfortunately, most of the other characters are not given as much to work with and fall into one-note casualties defined by a single trait, and nothing more. nevertheless, they are sometimes ele­vated through the isolated and compressed acceleration of anxiety caused by their surroundings, pacing through the stages of grief erratically. even Jess falls prey to these script issues; as noted, we hear about her child enough to expect him to be her sole motivation, but the upending final se­quence turns her early worrying into an incomprehensible mix of denial and amnesia. 
The film’s looping timeline of events is not meant to be rationalized, but presented as a representation for the emo­tions experienced as a result of loss. rather than limit the film to that, though, smith also considers complications involving the consequences for that loss and the possibility of getting stuck amidst the stages of grief by taking from the greek myth of sisyphus — which he makes painfully clear in his transparent symbolism and referentiality. despite these hiccups, “Triangle” is an engaging experience that grapples with insignificance and mortality in a uniquely sobering way. 


Contact Matt McMahon at mmcmaho7@nd.edu 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 


The oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 


INSIDE COLUMN 


what is called thinking? 
Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
“what is called thinking?” 
most of my classmates from philosophical inquiry last semester would laugh when posed with this question. asking it became a running joke that stemmed from the title of a series of lectures by martin heidegger that we read, as it became a sym­bol our experience as a group in this particular pro­gram of liberal studies (pls) tutorial. 
however, after a recent discussion with my room­mate on the subject of free will and determinism, i was brought back to this question. yes, my room­mate and i are the kind of people who often have dialogues on a multitude of issues, and often times we are diametrically opposed in our views. and don’t worry, we still get along quite well. 
my roommate took the side of determinism. it wasn’t that he preferred to think of the world in this way, but rather that he couldn’t understand it to be any other way. with all that we know about the brain and its synapses, he stated that we can’t actually have choice because this would require stopping chemical processes that simply can’t be stopped. we continue to make strides in our understanding of the brain, and we could very well come to predict decisions before they are made should we come to fully understand it, he said. 
while i know very little when it comes to the sci­ence of the brain, i still have the belief that humans have free will. This causal chain my roommate believes in begins with a “first mover,” but this sug­gests there is something that exists outside of the chain. if that’s the way we both understand the system of our universe, then i believe it is certainly reasonable to understand our brain in this way as well. while we have not proven the existence of a soul through science to this point, that doesn’t mean it can’t exist. 
after going back and forth with my roommate on this question, i ended the discussion feeling much less confident in the way i understand the world. i felt as though i had taken for granted some of life’s most important questions. all of a sudden, the ques­tion “what is called thinking?” took on a new mean­ing for me. i wasn’t experiencing the existential crisis that prompted our discussion as my roommate was, but i started to wonder if i should have been. 
every day, i get the opportunity to ask myself these questions with all the great books i read as part of the pls. and yes, that was a shameless plug for pls — deal with it. But perhaps i haven’t truly taken advantage of that opportunity and thought about what i truly believe. 
i think this is true of a lot more people than just myself. The idea that we might not have free will is frightening, even disturbing. But is that an excuse not to ask ourselves these kinds of questions? i be­lieve in god, but i often struggle with how to deal with the problem of evil in the world. The implica­tions of these questions are significant, too sig­nificant to ignore. They shape the way we view the world, thus affecting the way we live while we are on it. 
maybe we can’t answer these questions, but shouldn’t we at least think about them? maybe it all starts with asking ourselves, “what is called thinking?” 
Contact Benjamin Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



history shows otherwise 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 
The 2016 presidential field boasts a range of well qualified candidates from all walks of life: a neurosur­geon, a former senator/first lady/secretary of state, a business executive, former governors, a billionaire and several members of the senate, just to name a few. many americans seem to want a fresh face and perspective in washington, free of the perceived bag­gage and tarnish of capitol hill. But are people who have no political experience really better equipped to instantaneously assume the most important political position in the world? experience in state government or on capitol hill may be a prerequisite to assuming the office of president. 
candidates including donald Trump and carly Fiorina argue that their extensive business experience and records of accomplishments demonstrate how prepared they are to balance the budget and grow the economy. But history shows otherwise. according to robert mcelvaine of the washington post, “the na­tion’s gdp has grown more than 45 times faster un­der presidents with little or no business experience than it has under presidents with successful business careers.” 
This reality reflects the fact that the president does not have as much control over the fate of the economy as we might think. independent economic events, unrelated congressional action, tax and regulatory activity and decisions made by the Federal reserve are among the primary economic change agents. The president may have little or no control over these economic influencers. For example, herbert hoover was a prominent international businessman who achieved tremendous personal wealth and won the white house in 1928 with promises of economic pros­perity. unfortunately, the stock market collapsed only months after hoover took office, doomed the agenda of this dc outsider and turned him into a one-term president. The simple reality is that our government does not run like a business, and it certainly can’t be controlled like any entity which these executives are accustomed to running. 
on the other hand, “career politicians” carry bag­gage that is turning off american voters. They often find themselves subject to the influence of major do­nors or political allies, influences which may not be as significant for washington outsiders. For example, it’s no secret that presidents often choose ambassadors to foreign nations or other top posts as rewards to cam­paign contributors. unfortunately though, we may have to accept the price of politics. dc is often a world where contacts and political ious are the major cur­rency. is this something that can be changed anytime soon? most likely not. 

The biggest complaint which the presidential pri­mary race has exposed is that politicians don’t un­derstand what its like to be a working class american. many candidates and office holders are part of what is perceived as the political elite. They’re seen as hav­ing worked primarily for the government for most of their lives. many are perceived rightly or wrongly as being part of an insulated bureaucracy for so long that they are incapable of relating to those working in the private sector. voters are asking how their officials are supposed to represent those whose lives they can’t understand? 
The president’s concerns obviously include issues larger than those which dictate our daily lives. i would argue that we need a president who can look beyond the weeds that cultivate our trees in order to create a thriving forest. consequently, we need a president who is well versed in the domestic political process, who can stand up to aggressive foreign nations, and who can negotiate and enforce fair deals with our in­ternational trading partners. we need someone who can translate our needs and ambitions into a realistic policy and legislative agenda and break through the dc gridlock to implement those priorities. it is diffi­cult to argue how a person with this requisite skill set could be a washington outsider. 
of our 44 presidents, 16 are former senators, 19 are former house members and 17 are former governors. obviously, the electorate values political experience when choosing a president, and they do so for good reason. anyone who aspires to our nation’s highest office must understand the fourth dimension that is the presidency. you have to understand the system in order to determine how to improve it. 
The presidency does not provide a margin for error necessary for on the job experience. while many of our current candidates have incredible private sector cre­dentials and the best of intentions, the white house is no place for a novice. if these politically inexperienced presidential aspirants truly are committed to public service, let them gain an understanding of the system by spending time in congress or as a state governor. let’s instead move forward with a president who pos­sesses the appropriate skill set to get the job done. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall,  studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business  economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“i owe my success to having listened respectfully to the very best advice, and then going away and doing the exact opposite.” 
G. K. Chesterton Writer 



The oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Muscles, Inc. 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 
i recently was subjected to a youTube ad in which a muscly 24-year-old describes his scientifically backed workout regiment via voice-over while me­andering around a hampton-style mansion and driving a lamborghini to a luxury gym. needless to say, the man appears shirtless throughout. 
i would compare the ad’s flashy medium to the opening scene from “american psycho,” in which a young, exorbitantly wealthy and narcissistic stockbroker details his morning routine, but it seems the beefy entrepreneur has beaten me to the punch. indeed, he deliberately styles the ad for his body-building program off this very same scene, going so far as to repeat the opening lines nearly word for word, substituting his name and age for those of american psycho’s patrick Bateman: 
“my name is gregory o’gallagher, and i’m 24 years old. i believe in taking care of myself and maintaining a lean and powerful body and striving each day for self improvement.” 
That might sound fine and good, but bear in mind that this youthful titan is consciously com­paring himself to a fictional character who chops off (or imagines himself to be chopping off) the heads of prostitutes, humiliates homeless people by pretending to offer them dollar bills and above all, brandishes an unrelenting arrogance of the highest caliber. 
is o’gallagher not aware of this connection? does he not think his viewers aren’t? since “Batman” music is playing throughout, does he just think that all the characters played by christian Bale are interchangeable? is a city-saving hero equivalent to an egomaniacal psycho so long as they have the same glamorous, chiseled body? 
with the exception of the second question, i’m fairly certain that the answer is no. one has to re­member that this is an ad, and the only logic that ads feel the need to obey is the logic of grabbing attention. 
what’s troubling about this ad is not so much the glitzy portrayal of sports cars and summer homes which o’gallagher assuredly does not own — he talks about renting the lambo in another video. rather, it’s the industry of superficial self-improve­ment which the ad embodies — in the six-pack chest of its creator — that is worrisome. 
now, i understand that body-building can be a route to confidence, physical well-being and other less-tangible modes of self-betterment for many folks along the spectrum of dissatisfaction. i know people for whom this has been the case, and even suspect that this is the case for o’gallagher. however, lingering beneath all of this is the sus­picion that, for some individuals, having highly visible abs and glory muscles is understood to be a kind of panacea, which all of sudden will set their life on course, if they merely follow someone’s preset workout routine, or as o’gallagher claims, simply fast for the first eight hours of their day and exercise intensely thrice a week. 
we’ve all seen the commercials for instant ab workouts, the miracle body-shaping pills and fit­ness routines. it all sounds very nice. But that’s it. it sounds too nice. it’s the definition of specious. i like to call it muscles, inc. 

The fatal flaw of muscles, inc. is the same flaw apparent in the youtube ad. it promises holistic happiness through the simplicity of physical mim­icry. so long as you follow my workout or purchase my product, self-improvement — and gorgeous romantic partners — will descend upon you like sweat to the brow of a body builder in mid lift. it doesn’t matter that these programs often contra­dict each other, as one emphasizes pre-workout fasting while another demands carbo-loading before exercise. it doesn’t matter that having a six-pack might only give the appearance of healthi­ness. what matters is that you will become a better person simply by becoming a leaner, stronger body. 
perhaps it is a truism that having a so-called “per­fect” body does not make one a perfect person. yet, the american media seems to worship bodies of a certain sort. Bodily health, assuredly, contributes to overall well-being, and in part, to happiness. But the people hitting the weight room every evening, whether with their protein powder or their inter­mittent fasting, might want to double-check their motivations. muscles, inc. cannot secure our health for us, anymore than a six-pack can secure our hap­piness. patrick Bateman, with his enduring ennui and rock hard chest, at least knows that much. 
Charlie Ducey waxes poetic without warrant, but who needs a warrant to write poetry? He studies English and German and is in his final year at Notre Dame. Please direct fan art and gripes to cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Yes, income inequality really is that bad 
This is a response to mimi Teixeira’s viewpoint “is income inequality that Bad?” published on Jan. 
27. in her article, Teixeira argues that concerns sur­rounding income inequality are overblown and serve only as a political talking point. she contends that “even if income inequality were increasing at alarming rates, it wouldn’t matter.” 
income inequality is increasing at an alarming rate — the bonuses wall street employees received last year alone are double the combined annual salary of 1,007,000 full-time minimum wage earn­ers, despite a decline in profits. The 400 richest in­dividuals in our country hold more wealth than the poorest 150 million americans combined. in other words, the top 0.1 percent is worth more than the entire bottom 90 percent. But these statistics alone are perhaps not enough to decry income inequal­ity — although they can arouse a visceral feeling of injustice. a depression of gdp, deficit of opportuni­ty and a severe decline in social mobility, however, are enough. 
Teixeira claims “economic growth … [has done] far better than any redistributive program could. Focusing on income inequality doesn’t help the poor.” capitalism works because of incentives, and these incentives must naturally give rise to income inequality. even though inequality rises, all mem­bers of society are better off. 
we neither dispute the nature of this process nor seek to dissolve the “uncontrollable monstrosity” of capitalism and replace it with a “redistributive program.” instead, we acknowledge the positives of capitalism as an economic system as well as the ne­cessity of some level of income inequality. however, the potential for extreme levels of income inequal­ity is a flaw of capitalism, which can be addressed. 
The current level of income inequality is beyond what is required by growth. a 2014 oecd study found that the extreme level of income inequality in the united states has led to the loss of approximate­ly 0.3 percentage points worth of gdp growth per year for the last twenty years. while some level of inequality is the natural result of economic growth, the current level serves only to depress economic growth by degrading educational opportunities and social mobility 
Teixeira also says, “There was a time when only the rich could afford refrigerators, phones and com­puters. as income inequality has grown, standard of living inequality has shrunk.” although we can all appreciate the wonders of indoor plumbing, refrigerators, cable television — to name a few — and how widely available these commodities now are, we cannot equate certain material possessions with opportunity. Teixeira points out that “most working americans have the same basic appliances and necessities as the rich.” although a ceo and a public school teacher both own phones, only one of them can afford a college education for his child. education is supposed to be the engine of opportu­nity, but studies show “increasing gaps in academic achievement and educational attainments have ac­companied the growth in income inequality.” when you lack the resources to invest in your children’s futures or summit mountains of college loans, a refrigerator loses relevancy. 
it is hard to say the united states is a meritocracy when government policies, tax cuts and special interests help the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. For example, the Federal reserve has cre­ated “economic distortions,” according to a leading wall street bond expert, that result in a transfer of wealth to those seeking short-term gains and who need it the least. it’s easy to only see the world through the lens of our own experience, but we have to realize that people face different barriers than our own if they do not win the lottery of birth and circumstance. without first hand experience of the effects of the deleterious effects of income inequality, we should not be so quick to declare it non-problematic. 

Further, a general lack of opportunity affects the ability of the less well-off to live up to their full potential. often disadvantaged for reasons beyond their control, they are forced to live life dreaming of what might have been had the circumstance of their birth been different. opportunity lies at the crux of the american dream — in its absence the free-market system is rigged from the start. not only is this fundamentally unfair, but it violates the principles of equality of opportunity and the pur­suit of happiness we hold sacrosanct as a nation. To stand by and do nothing while income inequality threatens these values would be irresponsible. 
at some point we have to ask ourselves: is this really the society we want to live in? Teixeira says she wants to “challenge you to look at statistics and consider that their only real impact is in shock value used for political purposes.” The ‘shock value’ of income inequality is not so much its usage as a political soundbite, but rather its negative im­pact on everyday americans. The entrenchment of wealth at the top, and the deficit of opportunity at the bottom — that’s the real impact of economic inequality. we challenge you to not simply discard the issue of income inequality because it does not directly affect you, but rather to remember pope Francis’s words: “human rights are not only vio­lated by terrorism, repression or assassination, but also by unfair economic structures that create huge inequalities.” 
Natasha Reifenberg 
sophomore 
Patrick LeBlanc 
sophomore 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 
JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


PERSONAL 
Want a pro to help edit/polish your disserta­tion or other research paper? Utilize an experi­enced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: consistency and forward motion will help you achieve whatever you set out to do. size up whatever situation you face and be quick to take action rather than waste time arguing. actions will speak louder than words, and what you do now will set the stage for years to come. stay focused on your goals and don’t stop until you reach your destination. your numbers are 7, 12, 20, 26, 34, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t give up on the changes you want to make. a disciplined attitude will help you finish what you started, as well as ease your stress and take your mind off any negative situations you are facing. 



TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Believe in your abilities. step up to the podium and voice your opinions. standing up for your beliefs and sharing practical solutions will put you in a good position. romance is on the rise, and celebrating your success is encouraged. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): good intentions will not cut it if you don’t follow through. don’t let anyone lead you astray with gossip or rumors that aren’t based on facts. emotional concerns about a partner or older person in your life will cause uncertainty. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll have plenty of opportunities to mix business with pleasure if you host an event or attend a networking function. your charming demeanor will attract attention as well as make those you love proud of your accomplishments. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t waste time. Keep the momentum going and head in a direction that promises to bring about positive change. don’t let jealousy turn into a costly loss. Think outside the box and you’ll find a workable solution. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): enjoy the youngsters in your life or plan a romantic adventure with someone you are deeply in love with. The attention you pay to others will result in an unexpected, unique response. plan a vacation around something you find entertaining. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let anyone put you down or control your life. make decisions based on what works for you, and if change is required to find the peace you need in your life, take the initiative and make it happen. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make your home a place for interesting people to gather. surrounding yourself with eclectic decorations and talented people will allow you to hold court and become a leader. romance will help stabilize an important relationship. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll face plenty of interference if you are too vocal about what you are up to. make changes while no one is watching. it’s best to avoid people who confuse you or are known to be a poor influence. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t wait to see what everyone else is doing. if you want something, go after it. don’t let a last-minute change of plans alter your course. Follow your heart and your dreams, and head in whatever direction makes you happy. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): helping others will exhaust you. Taking on more than you can handle will result in ill feelings between you and the person counting on you. make your position clear and don’t let yourself be overwhelmed by your problems. Quarreling will not resolve the problem. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in something that concerns you, or offer support to someone you love. your gesture will raise your awareness of important issues. love is highlighted, and a romantic encounter will lead to a brighter future. make a commitment. 


Birthday Baby: you are practical, goal-oriented and proactive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Ace high, I’m going all in. / Visualize it / I’ll give you something to do / Spread it like peanut butter jelly / Do it like I owe you some money / Spread it like peanut butter jelly / Do it like I owe you some money / Money, mon­ey, money / Spread it like / Spread it like / Visualize it / I’ll give you something to do / Spread it like 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcoBserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | The oBserver 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Esports are definitely sports 

Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
on Friday, Zach Klonsinski penned a sports authority column in which he attacked my belief in the validity of esports. Klonsinski claims that es-ports are not sports and instead, he mockingly calls them “egames”. 
here is my response to mr. Klonsinski and those like him. 
To argue his view that esports are not sports, Klonsinski turns to the oxford dictionary defini­tion of “sport” which is defined as “an activity in­volving physical exertion and skill in which an indi­vidual or team competes against another or others for entertainment.” 
Klonsinski then says, “it’s easy to see egames meet almost every requirement outlined in the definition of sport, except one: physical exertion.” 
Basically, Klonsinski is saying that we have some­thing that walks like a duck, talks like a duck and smells like a duck but isn’t a duck. makes sense right? 
if you chose to focus on the physical aspect of sports and make that the para­mount criteria for what it and is not a sport, you walk down a slippery slope. 
By that logic, jump rope should be a sport. hopscotch should be as well and i hear rock, paper, scis­sors has a big following. 
To say something isn’t a sport based on its perceived lack of physicality is a nar­row view to take. especially for esports which has all the other criteria of a sport in spades. 
Klonsinski even admits this and agrees with me that espn was wise to pick es-ports up. it has more excite­ment, rivalry and skill than most traditional sports. would you rather watch synchronized swimming or league of legends? 
and for those who say esports aren’t physical enough, the leading cause of retirement for esports athletes is actually physi­cal injury. The amount of practice these professional athletes endure is physically and mentally punishing. i predict Klonsinski could not last a week on a professional esports athlete’s practice schedule purely because of the physical rigors. 
But in the end, it doesn’t actually matter if i convince you esports are a sport. you can think whatever you want to on that front, be­cause esports are not going away anytime soon. 
espn picking them up is just one piece of evidence for that. in my prior two articles on this topic, i’ve shown that esports viewer­ship is increasing by the year, something that cannot be said for the most popular sports today. more people watch league of legends matches than watch game seven of the world series. 
investors from all over are taking notice of this. mark cuban, owner of the dallas mavericks, recently invested in a esports betting company called unikrn, and former nBa player rick Fox bought a league of legends team. 
“i’m excited to be involved with a new sport just as it’s poised for huge growth,” cuban said when announc­ing his decision to invest. 
if there’s one thing mark cuban isn’t, it’s stupid. 
To quote the film “all the president’s men,” “follow the money.” and right now the money is flowing into esports both in america and around the world. 
again, i know esports are a sport. you can agree with me and be right, you can disagree with me and be wrong, but it doesn’t mat­ter because, like it or not, esports are the future, and they are here to stay. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC BASKETBALL | alma 72, smc 65 

late run not enough for saint mary’s in defeat 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s fell to alma in a close game saturday, 72-65. The Belles’ only win this season came against alma (7-11, 2-8 miaa) in december, however, saint mary’s (1-19, 1-10) was not able to grab a second win this year against the scotties. 
Belles head coach Jennifer henley said she was pleased that her team was able to keep up with the scotties for much of the game, even holding the lead on multiple occasions. 
“we played well for three quarters on saturday,” henley said. “we struggled in the third quarter to find a way to put points on the boards. we didn’t have a way to answer alma’s run.” 
The Belles outscored the scotties in the first quar­ter, 13-11, and in the fourth quarter, 24-14. despite this, saint mary’s was unable to stop alma in the middle of the game. henley said a major turning point in the game came in the fourth quarter. even though saint mary’s had a strong quar-saturday, the only by saint ter, both offensively and de-mary’s on the day. Kohler fensively, two 3-point shots scored 17 points in the loss, by alma came to define the second only to fellow senior game. captain eleni shea, who led 
“we had some big stops all scorers with 19 points. in the fourth quarter and however, the Belles were closed the gap,” henley unable to keep the scotties’ said. “But they hit two big 3-point percentage down, as 3-pointers down the stretch the home team shot 9-of-18 as we gambled on defense, from behind the arc. which widened their lead.” The loss to alma brings 
one bright spot in the the Belles’ losing streak to game for henley and her 11 straight games. despite squad was Belles senior cap-the disheartening mark, the tain maddie Kohler’s perfor-Belles have been keeping mance from behind the arc. more games close, dropping Kohler hit 75 percent (3-for-five of their last six by 13 
4) of her 3-point attempts points or less. 


while the season has been far from ideal, henley is hopeful for the Belles’ pros­pects in the coming weeks. 
“it’s difficult being in so many close games and com­ing up short,” henley said. “But we will continue to work hard as we close out the season. we have a big week coming up.” 
The Belles will look to add another win to their record wednesday when they take on Trine at home at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
Bcs national championship loss — but he denied any in­terest at the time. 
at 226-80-2, Kelly’s all-time coaching record makes him the winningest ac­tive coach in the ncaa Football Bowl subdivision (FBs). he has coached notre dame to six straight bowl games, a feat no other irish coach has accomplished since lou holtz, and post­ed two seasons of double-digit wins, equaling holtz, ara parseghian and Knute rockne. 
assuming Kelly stays at notre dame through the length of his contract, he will be the second longest tenured football coach in program history, behind only Knute rockne. 
Kelly 
conTinued From page 12 
heels of a 10-3 season in which the irish shrugged off injuries to 20 players with starting experience to advance to the BattleFrog Fiesta Bowl and finish the year ranked no. 11 in the country, with their only loss­es coming to no. 2 clemson, no. 3 stanford and no. 4 ohio state. 
“i want to thank [university president Fr. John Jenkins] and the leadership of notre dame for their confidence in me,” Kelly said in a press release. “i coach football be­cause i believe there are few better avenues for impact­ing the lives of young men, and i am certain that there is no better place to do that than the university of notre dame. during the next six years i look forward to con­tinuing to lead a champion­ship caliber program, but more importantly i look for­ward to continuing to help the student-athletes i coach to achieve greatness as foot­ball players, as students and as men who will make a dif­ference in families, com­munities and organizations they will someday lead.” 
Before the Fiesta Bowl, rumors began to circulate that several nFl teams were interested in hiring Kelly. it was the second time in his tenure Kelly has been con­nected to nFl jobs — the first came after the 2012 team’s 


W Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
so they’ve got really good size, and they’re a really good team that we’ve battled with ever since joining the confer­ence, so i think it’ll be a really good game.” 
The irish travel to durham, north carolina, coming off their worst offensive game of the season, a 54-42 win over georgia Tech. it was notre dame’s lowest point total in a win since 2006, and the team 
re-injury out of his mind on the 
shot just 39 percent from the 
M Bball 
floor sunday. 
field, 13 percent from 3-point 
conTinued From page 12 
“nah, i just try not to think 
territory and 42 percent from about stuff like that,” Jackson 
the free throw line. arc. said. “Because you can some­
“we just needed to be a The senior captain, who typi-times think things into exis­
little more patient,” mcgraw cally serves as the “handshake tence. i just wanted to go out, 
said of the team’s offensive guy” during pregame warmups, have fun, smile and be really 
struggles in the win. “we said it was a different experi-happy to get back on the court. 
needed to execute a little bit ence before tipoff. This is what i love to do.” 
more, run a little more of­“it was weird sitting down The breakout game from 
fense. we were quick-shoot­watching the intro video and Burgett and return of Jackson 

ing the ball when we could junior forward oderah monday” program. Three of going through the handshakes to notre dame’s rotation over-
have worked it around a little chidom and graduate stu-notre dame’s next six games and whatnot,” Burgett said. “it shadowed the best statisti­
more.” dent center/forward amber will be nationally broad-was a little different, but it felt cal performance on the floor 
still, mcgraw said she was henson. cast, and with that exposure, right.” sunday, as auguste led all 
pleased with how her team meanwhile, the irish will mcgraw said her team will irish head coach mike Brey players with 21 points and 12 
battled back and “got the bad be hampered by illness. be facing some of its biggest said that after Thursday’s lack-rebounds, notching his 12th 
game out of their system” graduate student guard and challenges of the season. luster performance at syracuse double-double of the year. 
moving forward. leading scorer madison cable “February’s going to be that he wanted to start with age, Brey praised the performance 
notre dame will have to was dealing with congestion really tough. we’re playing not youth against the demon of his other senior captain post-
find a cure for its shooting throughout the georgia Tech the tough half of the league deacons. game, reiterating his belief that 
woes quickly against duke, game, while sophomore for-now. we just got to be ready,” “he is a stretch four. here’s a Burgett’s presence aided his 
who boasts a top-25 defense ward Kathryn westbeld had mcgraw said. guy that’s been in our program teammates. 
in field goal percentage and flu-like symptoms that limit-duke and notre dame for a while,” Brey said of Burgett. “[auguste] was unbelievable 
3-point percentage. The Blue ed her minutes. Both illness-tip off at 6 p.m. at cameron “no one’s respected more on and fearless,” Brey said. “you 
devils also rank in the top 35 es will likely linger through indoor stadium in durham, our team than him because he know what helped him? having 
in the nation in rebounding the week, mcgraw said. north carolina. leads, he has a great attitude, his roommate playing with 
margin and blocked shots per Tonight’s matchup with and he really hadn’t played him. That’s not lost either in the 

game, led by sophomore for-duke will be broadcast Contact Greg Hadley at much. group dynamic here.” 
ward/guard azurá stevens, on espn as part of its “Big ghadley@nd.edu 
“ … i think what [playing auguste matched up against Burgett] does, it really helps the wake Forest senior forward other three captains to have devin Thomas on sunday, who him out there, to have another like auguste averages a dou­man out there and i was just in ble-double this season. while the thing of, ‘let’s start old.’” Thomas finished with 19 points, 
Burgett, who averaged 14.8 most of them came with the minutes per game his sopho-irish well ahead. more year before playing just “i love the challenge, man,” 180 minutes over the last season auguste said. “i wanted to go and a half, said it was difficult out there and prove that i’m one persevering through his spell on of the best bigs out there in the the bench. country, and i just love to do that 
“it was hard at times,” Burgett and to go up against the best.” said. “ … you’ve just got to come with the win, notre dame to practice every day, be willing moved to 6-0 this year following to work really hard and try and a loss. get people better even if you’re “i think it’s just that edge we not playing.” get back,” auguste said. “we 
Burgett wasn’t the only irish got slapped in the face out there player reappearing in the start-[Thursday], and we want to get ing five though. Jackson re-back and get another win.” turned after missing Thursday’s Junior forward v.J. Beachem game against syracuse with a hit a trio of 3-pointers on his way strong all-around performance, to 15 points sunday while junior grabbing 14 points, eight assists guard steve vasturia chipped and seven rebounds in the win. in 10 points and four assists to 
“sure is nice having the best get all five starters into double guard in the country back,” Brey figures. said. “god, i’m a much better with a trip to no. 15 miami coach when that guy’s around.” (Fla.) on wednesday followed 
irish senior forward Zach by saturday’s marquee home auguste said there was an im-tilt with no. 2 north carolina, provement offensively from Brey said he expects the same Thursday to sunday, crediting starting five to get the nod this that change to Jackson’s return. week against a pair of veteran­
“he was doing a lot of things led foes. multiple ways, and it was great “i looked out before the center to have him back,“ auguste said. tip; two seniors, three juniors. “obviously, our offense flowed Kinda like that math right now much better than usual.” in this league,” Brey said. 
Jackson, who noted he hadn’t suffered a similar injury be-Contact Alex Carson at  fore, said he kept the thought of acarson1@nd.edu 





ndsmcoBserver.com | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | The oBserver 




Hockey 
conTinued From page 12 
the play of our goaltender,” york said. “i thought [demko] was just in control of the game. his angles, his position throughout the whole night, i thought was outstanding. we’ve seen it before, but you can win a game with his play.” 
york also praised the recent ef­fectiveness of the irish power play unit, once again citing demko’s perfect performance as a big rea­son for his team’s success on the penalty kill. 
“Tonight the penalty killing was a huge part of our game plan,” york said. “They’re outstanding on the power play, but Thatcher was a key to that.” 
The irish special teams saw a great deal of ice during the game, both on offense and defense, as each team was awarded five pow­er plays throughout the course of the evening. Boston college con­verted the only power play goal of the evening on a five-on-three chance during the second period. 
The eagles were also afforded a penalty shot attempt at the end of the second following a last-sec­ond slashing call on sophomore defenseman Jordan gross, but eagles forward colin white was unable to convert as irish sopho­more goaltender cal petersen managed to catch the puck on the edge of his shoulder, deflecting it wide. 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson cited an overabundance of emo­tion as a source of frustration for the irish as they found themselves down early and struggling often to execute their game plan. 
“my concern going into the game — i had been stressing all week about being emotionally in control,” Jackson said. “Because we are a younger group, and i think that was a factor. Just being too amped up, and i think things spiraled. 
we made uncharacteristic plays with the puck. if you think about the turnovers, a lot of times we were in the offensive zone, making a play with the puck and making a play under pressure.” 
Jackson was quick to look beyond what was ultimately a single game in the regular season, however. 
“when you’re winning, when you’re having success … we came off a pretty good streak here,” Jackson said. “it was bound to end, and this will help get our at­tention back.” 
senior left wing and alternate captain sam herr echoed his coach’s sentiments regarding the team’s struggle with focus at the beginning of the game. 
“yeah, a little bit. it’s easy to get distracted with a big game like this,” herr said. “obviously with a bit of a rivalry between us and Bc, we needed to come into the game thinking about what we could control, and i think it’s safe to say we didn’t do that. we let the distractions take over, we didn’t play our game, we didn’t stick to our system at all, and we never got back to it.” 
still, when asked about his team’s ability to bounce back from the tough loss, herr seemed optimistic — both in the capac­ity of the upperclassmen on the team to lead and the ability of his younger teammates to regain their confidence. 
“i think it’s not going to be that hard, because the guys know we have a special team here.” herr said. “if you look at where we were at a year ago, the team has grown significantly because every single person has bought in to trying to get better every single day. our job is just to remind the guys, ‘hey, we got a little lazy last week. we know we’re better than that.’ The guys are going to respond to that. 
“everyone’s pumped to get an­other win streak going, and we’ve got to be the ones that lead the way. we have to keep everyone engaged and keep everyone talk­ing. us as leaders need to be the ones that are going to buy in every single day at practice just to show the others that this is what needs to happen.” 
The irish resume play this com­ing weekend as they travel east to face off against vermont at gutterson Fieldhouse. The first of two games against vermont will take place Friday at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 





The oBserver | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 85, waKe ForesT 62 
Bouncing back 
Burgett scores 14, Auguste records double-double in win as Jackson returns 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
neither senior forward 
a.J. Burgett nor junior guard demetrius Jackson had much of an impact Thursday as no. 25 notre dame fell at syracuse, 81­
66. Burgett saw three minutes of late action, while Jackson was out with a pulled hamstring. 
That was far from the case sunday afternoon, however, as the irish (15-6, 6-3 acc) rolled to an 85-62 victory over visiting wake Forest at purcell pavilion. 
Burgett, who had played just 41 minutes all season prior to starting sunday’s contest, made his impact felt early on against the demon deacons (10-11, 1-8), grabbing the rebound on notre dame’s first two defen­sive possessions before hitting an early 3-pointer on his first attempt from the field. 
That early momentum was something Burgett was able to carry forward in his first start since 2014, as he shot the ball well en route to a 14-point per­formance on the strength of a 4-for-6 day behind the 3-point 
see m BBall PAGE 10 

FOOTBALL 
Kelly inks new contract 
Observer Sports Staff 
Brian Kelly is staying put. 
The head coach and notre dame have come to terms on a six-year contract exten­sion, which will keep Kelly on the sidelines of notre dame stadium through the 2021 sea­son, notre dame vice presi­dent and athletics director Jack swarbrick announced Friday. 
“in the classroom, in the community and on the playing field, Brian has built the foun­dation of a great notre dame football program — one that reflects this university’s values and its unique relationship to the game of football,” swarbrick said in a press release. “i could not be more excited about the future of our football program under Brian’s leadership, and i am especially thankful that our student-athletes will continue to have the benefit of that lead­ership in the years to come.” 
The extension comes on the 
see Kelly PAGE 9 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
irish enter heart of acc schedule 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
halfway through the acc conference schedule, the fun begins now for no. 3 notre dame. 
starting with monday night’s road clash with pe­rennial power duke, the irish (20-1, 8-0 acc) will enter a three-week long stretch in which they will face the very best the conference has to offer. 
over the course of six games, notre dame will face the five teams closest behind it in the acc standings. Three of those matchups will come on the road, beginning tonight with one of the toughest road en­vironments in the country — cameron indoor stadium. 
“it’s a little different for the women, but it’s a tough place to play because you’re on bleachers and there’s fans right behind your bench,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “so it’s very close, which makes it a tough place to play.” 
and on the court, the Blue devils (16-6, 5-3) have pre­sented a significant challenge to the irish ever since notre dame joined the conference for the 2013-2014 season. The two teams have faced off five times since then, and al­though the irish have won all five, their average margin of victory in those games (13.4 points) is well off the team’s overall mark over the last two and a half seasons (21.8). 
Just last season, duke near­ly knocked out notre dame in the semifinals of the acc tournament, although the irish were able to pull out a 55­49 victory. This year, the Blue devils return three starters from that game, and all three stand 6-foot-1 or above. all told, eight Blue devils are six feet or more, compared to just five for notre dame. 
“They’ve got terrific size,” mcgraw said of duke. “last game i think they started [6­foot-3, 6-foot-3, and 6-foot-2], 
see w BBall PAGE 10 
HOCKEY | BosTon college 4, nd 0 

ND dominated by rival 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The irish saw their 12-game unbeaten streak, the fifth-longest in program history, snapped Friday night as no. 5 Boston college blanked the home team 4-0 at compton Family ice arena. 
Boston college (17-4-4, 10­1-4 hockey east) had the irish on their heels from the very first shift of the game, as eagles sophomore forward austin cangelosi scored his eleventh goal of the season just 16 sec­onds into the fixture. 
From there, the irish (14-5­7, 10-2-2) struggled to create scoring chances; even when the home team’s forwards did manage to generate something on the rush, their attempts were stifled by eagles junior goal­tender Thatcher demko, who made 28 saves en route to his eighth shutout of the season. 
demko’s play was lauded by eagles head coach Jerry york, college hockey’s all-time win­ningest coach. 
“[i was] really impressed with 
see hocKey PAGE 11 


MACKENZI MARINOVICH | The Observer 

Irish senior center Steven Fogarty takes a draw against Boston  College junior Austin Cangelosi during Friday’s 4-0 Irish loss. 





