The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 101 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
McCarthy, Dingler elected 
Emma McCarthy, Mary Joy Dingler to serve as College’s SGA president, VP 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
saint mary’s student government association (sga) announced the incoming stu­dent body president and vice president, emma mccarthy and mary Joy dingler, on Friday morning. 

according to mccarthy, the pair had been planning to run for office for over a year. They both joined sga as sophomores and began talking hypotheti­cally about one day running, and eventually, decided this was the right path for them, she said. ZACH LLORENS | The Observer 
Saint Mary’s Student Government Association announced Friday morning that juniors Emma see sga PAGE 5 McCarthy, left, and Mary Joy Dingler will serve as student body president and vice president next year. 





Sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
a 19-year-old female who lives on campus at notre dame reported that she was sexually assaulted at a party wednesday night, according to the south bend Tribune. 
The woman reported the crime to the south bend police department and said she did not know the suspect, according to the Tribune report. The police log said the crime occurred at a residence on the east side of south bend. 


doctoral student launches book on newman, scotus 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
The strong intellectual con­nection between medieval theologian duns scotus and 19th century thinker cardinal John henry newman has ma­jor ramifications for catholic thought, according to Fr. edward ondrako. 
a doctoral student of the­ology, ondrako presented on his recently-released book “The newman-scotus reader: contexts and commonalities” 


in the hammes bookstore on Friday afternoon. along with ondrako, theology professor cyril o’regan and doctoral student Jay martin spoke about the importance of the work. 
o’regan said it is important to think of scotus as part of the Franciscan tradition that produced many other deeply influential theologians and philosophers including st. bonaventure. 
“The Franciscan school continues to be, philosophi­cally and theologically, rel­evant today as seen in how it played a role in vatican ii,” o’regan said. 
scotus’s thought, much like newman’s, challenges enlightenment and post-enlightenment philosophy, o’regan said, because of its focus on grounding in metaphysics. 
“in modern philosophy from descartes to kant and all the way on, they dispense with metaphysical realism and present their thought in solipsistic self-reflection,” o’regan said. 
o’regan said part of this contrast can be attributed to the secularization, or the lack of christian doctrine in 
see book PAGE 3 



SUB hosts 58th annual collegiate jazz festival 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 

The 58th annual collegiate Jazz Festival (cJF), which cel­ebrated women in jazz this year, was held on Friday and saturday in washington hall. 
This year, the panel of judg­es was made up of five female jazz musicians, trumpeter ingrid Jensen, alto and so­prano saxophonist christine Jensen, pianist helen sung, string bassist marion hayden and drummer allison miller. This lineup is a change from years past, sophomore karen chen, this year’s sub pro­grammer for the event, said. 
“in the past there have been 171 male judges but only nine female judges,” she said. “so we wanted, with the fe­male empowerment move­ment going on in society, to acknowledge that there are so many other talented female musicians in the jazz field, too.” 
while the festival fea­tured performances from the university of notre dame Jazz band 1 and the notre dame new orleans brass band, as well as groups from lee university, roosevelt 
see JaZZ PAGE 4 


smc student activities board hosts midnight madness 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 

saint mary’s student activities board (sab) decid­ed not to reveal the Tostal per­former at the annual midnight madness to emphasize the healthy competition between classes through games and contests in angela athletic Facility on Thursday night. 
sab vice president and senior colleen burke said though sab has traditionally revealed the Tostal performer at the conclusion of midnight madness, the board opted to create more suspense and excitement about the reveal this year by making the an­nouncement over snapchat. according to burke, students can check snapchat each Thursday after spring break to find out which three coun­try musicians sab selected for this year’s Tostal. 
This year’s midnight madness attracted an audi­ence with a genuine interest in bonding with classmates, burke said. 
“This year we really wanted to focus on having midnight madness be its own event,” she said. “in past years, a lot of people have come to midnight madness mainly just to find out about the Tostal artist, and 
see madness PAGE 5 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What’s the first thing you’re going to eat on spring break? 

Adam Mallette 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“eggs.” 
Nicole Driscoll 
graduate student pasquerilla east hall 
“whataburger.” 
Patricia Portmann 
freshman pasquerilla east hall 
“steak.” 


Sarah Drumm 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“pineapple.” 
Tyler Duffy 
sophomore Zahm house 
“seafood.” 
Maddie Hetlage 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“smoothie.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen Zach klonsinski 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
rachel o’grady ben padanilam megan valley victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

lauren weldon Jimmy kemper Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Photo Viewpoint 

kathryne robinson claire radler “The Right to Vote” Blood Drive Fulbright Information Yoga in the Galleries Graduate Student Law School Grace hall Session Snite Museum of Art Mass 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. 10 a.m.-2 p.m. Brownson Hall   4 p.m.-5 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Discussion on voter ID Outside of Grace Hall. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Free and open to all Heart 
Corrections 

laws, voter fraud and Donors will receive a Discuss how to apply experience levels. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 
The observer regards itself as federal oversight. t-shirt. competitively. Mats provided. Weekly graduate mass. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
International “Stand Up Women” Men’s Basketball vs. Iron Sharpens Iron ND Black Lives Matter 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Scholars Program DeBartolo Performing Miami Coleman-Morse Center Edit-a-thon 
however, recognize that we will make 
Hesburgh Center Arts Center Purcell Pavilion 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. Notre Dame Center for 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
6 p.m.-7 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Weekly student-led Arts & Culture 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Informational meeting Lecture on female The Irish take on the praise and worship 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

for freshmen. stand-up comics. Hurricanes. service. Write Wikipedia pages. 


Author’s work explores race, communism 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
author david beasley con­trasted the african american communist movement and civil rights movement in mid-twentieth century america on Friday in vander vennet Theatre as part if a campus-wide black history month event. 
beasley worked for 25 years as a writer and edi­tor of the atlantic-Journal constitution, and has writ­ten two books,“a life in red” and “without mercy,” assis­tant professor of history and gender and women’s studies Jamie wagman said. 
“in many ways young peo­ple learning for the first time about the civil rights move­ment, are always committing themselves to social action. and the first step to social ac­tion is always information,” wagman said. 
“a life in red” is about the interracial couple Jane and herbert newton, beasley said. herbert became a com­munist after world war i during the tense period of 
Book 
conTinued From page 1 
modern philosophies, 
“The Franciscan tradition sees revelation as a gift and this makes it the antithesis of the kant-hegel axis of mod­ern philosophy,” he said. 
speaking about ondrako’s background, o’regan said his previous work prepared him well to create “The newman­scotus reader.” 
“Father ondrako is a well-known newman schol­ar, and he is aware of the veterans returning from bat­tle and receiving no jobs or hero’s welcome, he said. 
“The soviet union start­ed a program where they would take young african americans, and bring them to russia and train them in the communist doctrine,” beasley said. “They had some military training, the red army would actually in­struct them. They were train­ing them to come back to the united states and start a revolution.” 
in russia, where the gov­ernment did not tolerate racism, herbert and about one hundred other african americans were treated as celebrities, even marrying russian wives who couldn’t return with them to america, beasley said. after training, herbert returned to atlanta. 
“i’ve often thought about how much courage that would take, to go to the south in the 1930s,” beasley said. “it was cruel in the 1960s, so it was pretty risky then, the ‘30s in particular. he went to atlanta and was passing out pro-communist literature.” 
beasley said the “atlanta six,” including herbert, two other african americans, and three white men, were arrest­ed for these actions and later bailed out by the communist party. hebert then left atlanta for chicago as head of the negro division of the communist party, he said. 
“The communists found it was easier to recruit south­ern blacks in chicago than it was in the south due to mass migrations north,” he said. “They were heavily recruiting blacks here in chicago.” 
There, herbert and Jane met and got married, both com­munists devoting their lives to converting blacks to com­munism, beasley said. after a dispute with a landlord who kicked them out due to being an interracial couple, he said. 
Jane was actually put on a sanity trial because she was married to a black man and her father was the head of the american legion, he said. The first round of psychia­trists said she was crazy be­cause she believed blacks and whites were equal, but an­other round of psychiatrists brought in by the communist party changed that viewpoint. 

Their mission of starting a communist revolution in american did not succeed, he said. 
“i think one of the main reasons [for this failure] were that african american’s of the deep south were so deep­ly religious, and the churches were not a part of the commu­nist doctrine,” beasley said. “The communists didn’t have access to the church network ... as you see later dr. king, literally a baptist minister, emerged in montgomery.” 
beasley said after studying communism, dr. king con­cluded that the communist doctrine was all about mate­rialism and not spirituality. king saw the church as a ve­hicle to bring about change used the energy and passion of the church networks in a way that changed this coun­try, he said. 
communism looked to overturn the u.s. government and implement a russian model where racism would not be a part of the system, while the king movement 
the theological arguments in their own detail and specific­ity have certain spiritual im­portance,” martin said. 
ondrako spoke after martin, explaining his moti­vations for creating the book and the significance of its content. 
“This book argues in de­tail that newman was overall sympathetic to many of the major themes characteristic of duns scotus’s metaphys­ics,” ondrako said. 
This has large implications for catholicism’s philosophi­cal and theological stances in sought the implementation of rights that already belonged to african americans under the constitution, beasley said. 
“what i was trying to do with this book was contrast the communist effort in the deep south and also the civil rights movement under king,” beasley said. “They had sepa­rate paths and of course one was nonviolent revolution and the communist was very much violent with violent un­dertones. ... 
“This choice is relevant today if you look at prob­lems we’re having with race, in Ferguson, [missouri], baltimore … ” he said. “The african americans in this country basically said we’re all in this together, and we fought it out together. we’re one country.” 
The event was sponsored by the office of multicultural services, student diversity board, the history de­partment and the english department. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
the the modern era, ondrako said, particularly as it re­lates to the connection be­tween reason and faith or spirituality. 
“This is what pope John paul ii was so upset when he wrote ‘Fides et ratio’’, that there is a decline in understanding the importance of metaphysics and clear-headed thinking,” ondrako said. 
The newman-scotus reader sheds light on these kinds of issues by offering complementary perspectives that work together towards the same goal, ondrako said. 
“The metaphysical ap­proach of duns scotus un­covers the foundations of newman’s thought, while the phenomenological style of new helps the reader grasp the realism and profound spirituality lying behind the more abstract presentation of scotus,” ondrako said. 
while the content can be quite rich and complex, ondrako said he always kept his audience in mind. 
“‘my friends have asked me, ‘can i read this book?’, ‘will it confuse me?’, ‘will i get bogged down in the termi­nology and language that you theologians throw around?’,” ondrako said. 
ondrako said he was careful to write and edit the book for undergraduates and people interested in major concepts in theology and philosophy, hoping that the larger non­academic audience will ap­preciate the work. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
way cardinal John henry newman saw liberalism as a challenge,” o’regan said. 
Following o’regan, martin spoke about his role indexing the book. 
“as the indexer, i may have the dubious distinction of having read this book more than anyone else,” martin said, 
much like o’regan, martin said the personal and spiri­tual qualities of ondrako are present in his work. 
“This book is a decanting of the sort of spiritual life that Father ed exemplifies to his fellow classmates and to the faithful he serves,” martin said. 
martin said this means the book can be read for both the intellectual arguments and comprehensive scholarship it embodies as well as the more practical and spiritual mes­sage it contains. 
“i would encourage you as you read this text to allow Father ed’s vision of the ho­listic religious life that isn’t always terribly neatly com­partmentalized, to be chal­lenged by the theology of it, but also the insistence that 


paid adverTisemenT 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Jazz 
conTinued From page 1 
university, western michigan university, alma college, columbia college and the university of mississippi, the highlight of the festival was the Judges’ Jam on saturday afternoon, chen said. 
“The judges were all so amazing and it was great watching the way they kind of all interacted onstage and they’d like turn to each other and smile,” she said. “i had a lot of fun watching them be­cause you could tell they were having a lot of fun, too.” 
senior maddie mchugh, an alto saxophonist in the new orleans brass band, the Judes’ Jam surpassed her expecta­tions as a first-year member of the new orleans brass band. 
“They were absolutely in­credible musicians,” mchugh said. “i kept watching the drummer [allison miller]. she just looked like she was hav­ing so much fun while she was playing that i wanted to pick up a pair of sticks and try a drum set for the first time.” 
senior adam henderson, a trumpet player in the Jazz band 1 and the new orleans brass band, said inviting a new group of judges each year creates some variation in the judges’ performance. 
“The Judges’ Jam was differ­ent and it was good in a very different way than last year’s was, just because they played a different type of jazz than last year’s did,” he said. “it [was] not confined to the traditional type of jazz that you usually think of, and so it [was] very fun and interesting to listen to, whereas the type of jazz that they played last year was a little bit more standard and what you would think of when you would think of jazz.” 
henderson said another dif­ference between this year’s and last year’s festival was attendance, particularly at the event’s preview night on Thursday night in the la Fortune ballroom. 
“sub did a great job of pro­moting the event this year,” he said. “people were really buzzing about it and preview night this year, they did a great job of promoting it, they had a chocolate fountain and everything, so this year in comparison to past years has been awesome… we had a lot of people at preview night on Thursday, where last year it was dead, there was no one there.” 
chen said attendance was high enough to cause a pro­gram shortage, a phenomenon unheard of before this year. 



“we’ve printed the same amount of programs every single year for the past couple years [and] we ran out of pro­grams within the first half of the first night,” she said. “i be­lieve the final count for audi­ence members, not including the bands that were watching, was somewhere around 260 on the first night.” 
mchugh said the cFJ served as an opportunity to explore a different side of her instru­ment and music. 
paid adverTisemenT 

“i feel like jazz is so much more personal than anything else,” she said. “[in] marching band, concert band, you sort of play what’s on the page… Jazz is just everyone putting their personality through their instrument and sort of communicating with each other.” 
henderson said the new orleans brass band chose to play without sheet music onstage to allow even more flexibility. 
“For our performance, the trumpets, we [did] not have a folder in front of us because we like to be able to just listen to everyone else and play what the spirit moves you,” he said. “being able to get up there in front of a packed house, in front of people and just have fun, sing, dance around, move, interact with each oth­er, that’s what makes it fun.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 



SGA 
mccarthy said the first step when assuming these roles 
conTinued From page 1 
will be to pick their cabinet when they take office april 1. 

“i think it’s such a big deal The first idea the pair plans just to be student body vice to implement is a security president and president,” liaison who will be the voice dingler said. “i think it’s for the students when dealing amazing to think we can ac-with security to ensure every­tually make a change because one’s needs are met and com­as social concerns co-chair, i munication between students plan [support a belle love and security is improved. a belle] and love your body “we want that position to week, but there’s a kind of be up and running in the fall a specific formula to follow when everyone gets to cam-when you plan those weeks. pus so everyone can be safe … with this, it’s in our own as possible,” mccarthy said. hands now, and we get to en-dingler said they will also act change and do something create a weekly newsletter to different.” send out to the student body 
mccarthy said she is ex-that will have all campus cited to be the representative events happening that week. for the school, and while this she said this will decrease can be intimidating, she is the volume of emails stu­excited to be the person that dents receive while also con-students come to. solidating everything that 
“we get to make saint is happening to one place so mary’s what we want it to be,” students can find it easily. mccarthy said. “all of our according to mccarthy, platform ideas, we now get the pair wants to start strong 
from the beginning, making sure students know they can 
“Everyone here is 
approach either mccarthy or 
my sister. I want to 

dingler with any thoughts or be  a big sister to concerns they have. the underclassmen “our number one job is to 
be their voice and to make 
and a great sister 
things happen that they want 
to our senior 
to see,” mccarthy said. 
class.” 

dingler said they are excit-Emma McCarthy ed for freshman orientation 
encourages teamwork, ac-continued. 
Madness cording to reyes. “it is one of those events Saint Mary’s College them the opportunity to be 
student body president elect in the fall because it gives 
conTinued From page 1 “i had a great time with when if i stop what i am do-leaders for the first years. she 
my friends, and i got to bond ing for just a moment and to execute. it’s a huge honor. said it’s a unique opportunity 
they’re not there for the ac-with the rest of the sopho-look around, i realize how we get to represent the best because as school leaders, 
tual event itself.” mores,” reyes said. “i think much i love this school and school in the world.” they will be the first people 
burke said the event midnight madness is super the community that makes campaigning was a the incoming class will inter-
serves as an integral part of important because it brings it my home,” michael said. stressful but exciting time, act with. 
the saint mary’s experience. the classes together.” “it brings everyone together, mccarthy said. Though both have expe­
“if we were to take away burke said midnight spirit is high, and the en­“it was really nerve wrack-rience in sga — dingler as 
midnight madness and not madness distinguishes it-thusiasm is contagious. The ing to put yourself out there social concerns co-chair 
have it one year, it would just self from other sab events more people, the more fun it for all to see,” she said. “but it and mccarthy as the mis-
be taking away an oppor-because it simultaneously is.” was a super fun and reward-sion co-chair — dingler said 
tunity for everyone to cel-unifies each class while michael said midnight ing process.” they plan to shadow current 
ebrate saint mary’s,” burke strengthening overall saint madness solidifies students’ dingler said it was a strange president and vice president 
said. “it’s important for all mary’s pride. love for the college by al­experience because now peo-kaitlyn baker and maddie 
members of saint mary’s to “we have a lot of events lowing them to interact with ple know who she is. kohler and to ask for guid­
be involved in the activities during the year that really one another in different “i think the weirdest part ance as they prepare to take 
that go on on campus.” get the entire campus to-ways than they normally do. was being recognized around on their new roles. 
sophomore renee reyes, gether, but they don’t nec-“it gives the classes an op-campus,” she said. “our fac-dingler said this is a unique 
who participated in the essarily allow the grades portunity to work together es were everywhere. i would time to be student body lead-
event, said this year’s ac-to interact and play games on a common goal, it allows tell people, ‘oh, i can’t meet ers because saint mary’s 
tivities included trivia, with each other,” burke them to be proud of their tonight because i’m doing recently announced the in-
giveaways and a singing said. “The whole purpose of year, and it focuses on sup-something because i’m run-coming president of the 
challenge that engaged it is really to get the whole porting each other,” michael ning for student body vice college, Jan cervelli. 
attendees. school together and em-said. “students are given president.’ and they would “it’s especially cool be­
“everyone in the audience brace saint mary’s and have the opportunity to come to-say, ‘i know,’… That’s so cause president-elect cervelli 
sang along and danced,” a bunch of school spirit.” gether as a community. it is weird.” is going to be here,” dingler 
reyes said. “it was so much senior colleen michael, a time for spirit and a little mccarthy said she is dedi-said. “it’s a great opportunity 
fun to see everyone jam-sab president, said bit of competition.” cated to being the voice of to work with the new presi­
ming out to classics.” midnight madness serves the students by holding of-dent and be the student body 
midnight madness pro-as an honored saint mary’s Contact Martha Reilly at fice hours and by making president and vice president 
motes community and tradition that deserves to be mreilly01@saintmarys.edu sure students know how and while the school is going where to contact both her and through this big transition.” dingler. she said they plan to according to mccarthy, have a suggestion box in the the pair is dedicated to the student center as well, in case student body because saint students do not want to con-mary’s is their home. tact them directly. “everyone here is my sis­
dingler said they will be ter,” mccarthy said. “i want very visible to the student to be a big sister to the under-body. classmen and a great sister 
“i think attending events to our senior class. everyone around campus and being here is amazing, so intelli­very present is going to give gent and so incredible. how students the opportunity to could you not be dedicated to come to us and get to know us them?” and talk to us so that we are more in touch with what’s go-Contact Nicole Caratas at ing on,” she said. ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

One eye on the past 
Margaret Hynds 
editor-in-chief 

on my first night working in The observer’s office my freshman year, it took me 20 minutes to figure out how to turn on the computer. 
i’ve told that story a lot recently, generally followed by the punch line “and now they’re let­ting me run the place!” but as much as i like to joke about it, it’s a humbling position to be in. 
The first-ever edition of The observer ran november 3, 1966. The paper printed weekly for about a year, then four times per week for another, and we’ve been more or less daily ever since. 
i’d be lying through my teeth if i said that legacy weren’t daunting. but i’m up to the chal­lenge, because what we do is important. it can be easy to lose sight of that; there are plenty of nights when spending hours tucked away in a dusty basement seems as though it can’t be worth it. 
but for every time i tell myself what we do doesn’t matter, there’s another moment we play a crucial role in telling the story of this commu­nity and its students. 
if you did the math a few paragraphs up, you might have noticed we’re coming up on our 50th anniversary, and i inherited the unique situation of commemorating that milestone. in the last 50 years, the notre dame and saint mary’s communities have witnessed and af­fected enormous change. 
For better or for worse, we’ve been there with it, and we’ve been writing things down — what we saw, how students felt about it and what hap­pened next. 
personally, i’ve only been on this campus for two-and-a-half years, and i’m more than halfway done. i wasn’t here for things that fun­damentally shaped the conversations this com­munity has today — significant moments like the admission of women to notre dame, and less significant, everyday moments that shaped the future nonetheless. 
i think it’s important to take time to look back and understand our history, the wonderful mo­ments, and perhaps more importantly, the mo­ments we would rather forget. That is what we intend to do. 
in our archives, we have the stories of 49 years worth of students, alumni, faculty, staff and other members of this community who fought to make notre dame and saint mary’s what they are today, and i hope we can share some of those stories with you. 
For our part, we’re going to keep doing what we always do. my biggest hope for our golden jubilee is simply that we keep reaching higher, keep trying to do better. and if we don’t, consid­er this your personal invitation to let me know. 
my first time sending down the paper all by myself was Thursday night. actually, it was not-very-early Friday morning. i’d like to think i’ve come a long way since freshman year, but 
The religion of politics and the politics of religion 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 
a few weeks ago, my sources tell me, papa Francisco apparently crossed the line between politics and religion by saying that a certain candidate (i.e. the donald) “is not christian” for thinking “only about building walls” rather than bridges. Trump replied, interestingly enough, by partially reinforcing the division between politics and religion, as he claimed that “no leader, espe­cially a religious leader, should have the right to questions another man’s religion or faith.” 
The pope’s remarks, however, were less political­ly pointed than Trump made them out to be, as his holiness also stated that he would not get involved in saying whether to vote or not vote (for Trump, i presume?). The whole fiasco, however, reminded me of the tenuous relation between politics and re­ligion, as expressed in a series of recent viewpoint articles about bernie’s religious affiliation. 
in the the initial article “Threat to our religious roots,” eddie damastra raised the concern that the potential election of a nonreligious president would “fundamentally change the essence of america” and identified bernie sanders, with his culturally-but-not-religiously Jewish background, as such a contender. Three letters were published in response to the article. 
The first response misconstrued the phrase “christian nation” as somehow necessitating that such a nation be founded on theological writings and dwelled a lot on deism without seeming to recognize the real concern of damastra’s article, which was the division between the religious and nonreligious, not that between deism and christianity. The second response saw the critique of sanders’ non-religiosity as “fundamentally dan­gerous to our nation’s guiding principles” which the author described as “not even religious by na­ture.” The final response ups the ante of those re­marks by going to great lengths to paint the u.s. of a as a country based in “secular values,” which ap­parently amount to pluralism, equality and liberty, back in the times of the Founding Fathers (because what could serve as a better paradigm for a plu­ralist, equal and free society that one in which property-owning men have exclusive suffrage, own slaves and run natives off their land?). 
my contention is that the original article and the responses it generated operate on an understand­ing of religion that is far too narrow and a divi­sion between the secular and religious that is too simple and clean-cut. if the problem is that bernie doesn’t identify with a religion, then religion seems to be important only insofar as it is used as label. does the president call himself religious? if so, good. end of story. The other articles, however, either make religion seem exclusivist, in the case of the first, or arbitrary in the voting process, in the case of the latter two. 
what lies underneath the third article is the no­tion that beliefs don’t matter, that religious affili­ation is as arbitrary as whether one supports the Jets or the packers, as the authors write that we should hold a potential leader’s “accomplishments higher than what religious ceremonies he ob­serves.” accomplishments are great, but it seems to me like they’re saying that we should grant absolutely no heed to the religious background of a candidate. The second article espouses this view more directly when the author writes that we should “not question the supposed degree of religiosity of each candidate. rather, let us ques­tion their ideas, their temperament, their judge­ment, their commitment to our great nation and its guiding principles.” my question quite simply is: does religion really not matter in voting for a can­didate? and, moreover, isn’t the religion of candi­dates part of “their ideas, their temperament, their judgement?” 
The whole point here is that religion involves much more than frequenting a place of worship or professing membership in a particular organized community. rather, religion consists of ritual practices, a sense of identity, and, at the most basic level, a set of beliefs about the world. 
whether beliefs are perceived as religious or non-religious, they are still part of candidates’ platforms. some religious beliefs are probably less important to consider in the political process, but that does not mean that all religious beliefs are irrelevant. when religious beliefs come into the political fray in a meaningful way, however, they operate not as mere appeals to authority but as one set of value judgements versus another. 
For example, deciding that abortion should be legalized for the sake of female bodily freedom is not based on an incontrovertible fact, but on the belief that a right to bodily freedom exists and that this right extends to the right to terminate a preg­nancy. similarly, deciding that abortion should be illegal is based on a belief that the right to life exists for a human person and that the developing fetus is such a person. The point is that politics necessarily involves drawing on values and beliefs that occupy the religious sphere; it is not purely a matter of quantifiable facts to which we can all agree. we necessarily have to talk about values in talking about politics, and religion is a source of such values which cannot be discounted. 
when we understand religion more broadly as a set of beliefs, we can see that those who profess themselves to be religious or non-religious are of­ten talking about markedly similar values. when bernie works up a sweat talking about how he hurts when a child in america goes hungry, or the need to care for the marginalized, he’s sounding a whole lot like another famous Jew from history. regardless of bernie’s perceived religious identity, he is drawing from beliefs shared by religious be­lievers. There is no clear and easy division between many religious and non-religious beliefs, so what we should be thinking about is not whether bernie holds “religious” beliefs but which “religious” be­liefs he holds. 
Charlie Ducey waxes poetic without warrant, but who needs a warrant to write poetry? He studies English and German and is in his final year at Notre Dame. Please direct fan art and gripes to cducey@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
it certainly wasn’t without a lot of work, some tears and the occasional sleepless night, and i certainly have a long way to go. nevertheless, i’m going to keep at it, with one eye on the past and another on tomorrow’s paper. 
Contact Margaret Hynds at mhynds@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A dangerous mistake 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 

The detention center established at guantanamo bay has been a hot button issue since its creation in 2002. president obama has been vocal in his objec­tion to the continued operation of the facility and has remained steadfast in his commitment to close it. in fact, closing guantanamo bay was one of the president’s core campaign promises in the 2008. he pledged that he would have guantanamo closed within one year of taking office. of course, this never occurred. 
on February 23rd, president obama announced his renewed intention to shut down guantanamo, also known as “gitmo.” The decision, unsurprising­ly, quickly developed into a partisan issue. speaker of the house paul ryan released a statement claim­ing that, “after seven years, president obama has yet to convince the american people that moving guantanamo terrorists to our homeland is smart or safe.” The possible closure of gitmo and the trans­fer of what are perhaps some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists to american soil are incredibly important issues which could have dramatic effects on american security interests. 
gitmo was refurbished in 2002, in the post-9/11 environment, with the intent to house international terrorists who are believed to pose threats to u.s. interests. The facility has been largely cleaned out over the past 14 years with approximately 678 of the 779 total detainees having been released since 2002. since assuming office, president obama has released 146 detainees. The release of the remaining 91 is now his express goal. 
president obama intends to not only close the facility, but also to transfer 56 of the remaining 91 detainees to prison facilities in the united states. 
These remaining individuals are committed killers who present clear dangers to united states security interests and the communities where these transfer facilities are located. according to kevin liptak and elise labott of cnn, these prisoners are so danger­ous that they simply cannot be transferred else­where in the world. 
not only is president obama’s stated plan irre­sponsible, it is outright illegal. in 2011, president obama signed into law bi-partisan supported legislation expressly prohibiting the transfer of guantanamo bay detainees to u.s. soil. attorney general loretta lynch confirmed last week that it would be illegal to transfer the remaining gitmo detainees to the united states.it now is illegal under 
u.s. law to transfer gitmo detainees to the united states for trial, to hold them on domestic soil or use federal funds to prosecute them in civil court. These individuals pose an immediate threat to the national security of the united states. They need to remain under guard by the united states military and contained in an appropriate secure facility away from american citizens. 
The procedure established by the obama admin­istration for determining which detainees are safe to release is also subject to well-founded criticism. The guantanamo periodic review board decides which terrorists should be released. The board is staffed with members of the departments of defense, homeland security, Justice and state; the Joint staff and the office of the director of national intelligence. The board members convene, deliber­ate and make recommendations as to the release of specific individuals from the guantanamo complex. The board was established not through congressional authorization, but rather through a 2011 executive order of president obama. of the 21 detainees thus far reviewed, 18 have been cleared for release. many of these decisions are, at best, questionable. 
oftentimes, released detainees return to terror­ist activities. according to the director of national intelligence, 116 released detainees have reen­gaged in terrorist activities. look to the infamous example of the bowe bergdahl terrorist swap. in 2014, the united states, with the direct involvement of president obama, released five known Taliban fighters detained at guantanamo in exchange for the return of army deserter bowe bergdahl. once released, all five terrorists were put under a one-year house arrest in Qatar. The one-year period ended in 2015 and, following the expiration of their house detention, at least one of the prisoners al­ready has reengaged with al Qaeda. The potential reengagement of even one detainee in a terrorist act is a risk our government cannot responsibly afford to take. 
The closing of guantanamo and the transfer of the terrorists safely housed there should not be a politi­cal issue. The decision to set free or relocate these highly dangerous, committed killers implicates fun­damental national security concerns. There is no margin for error. unfortunately, president obama is abdicating his first responsibility as commander in chief, to protect the lives of american citizens, in order to pursue his liberal legacy and fulfill an un­informed and misguided promise which he made to his core constituency. congress must act to enforce existing law and stop the president from making what will likely be a costly mistake with potentially horrific consequences. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

archaic double standards 
perhaps the most unique, yet dismaying, thing about the notre dame is the horribly archaic way in which it treats men and women differently in its dorms. unlike many universities, notre dame is catholic. unlike many universities, notre dame leans conservatively in its student body and certain decisions. unlike many universities, almost all students remain in their freshman year dorm until at least the end of their junior years. notre dame is determined to be unique in ways unthinkable by many other top univer­sities, and in many cases, this is a good thing. many love the community of their dorm, or the spiritual nature of notre dame, or how quiet it gets after midnight. how differently notre dame treats its men’s and women’s dorms, however, cannot be endorsed. 
almost universally on notre dame’s campus, men’s dorms are much more lax in enforcement of rules than women’s dorms. in particular, al­cohol consumption and parietals are rarely en­forced in most male dorms and enforced almost to a fault in female dorms. 
if someone is found drinking alcohol in a men’s dorm, the worst that will happen will probably be loss of alcohol. parties are routinely held in the male dorms and can sometimes host hundreds of people. sections become flooded with people and booming music. in contrast, most women at notre dame are almost afraid to throw even moderate sized parties in their dorms, and heav­en help you if an ra finds you drinking liquor. 
similarly, parietals are almost nonexistent in most men’s dorms. hall staff deliberately tries not to find women staying past parietals. if a woman is found staying hours after the forbidden deadline, there likely won’t be punishment for the parties involved. meanwhile, if a man is found walking down the stairwell to exit a wom­en’s dorm at 12:05 a.m., there almost certainly will be repercussions, sometimes severe. The staff of women’s dorms are known to track wom­en who come in with men and then subsequently check their rooms to make sure that the guy has left after parietals. 
everyone can argue all day about whether parietals actually “build community,” as the university states. we can try to ignore that how differently men and women are treated in their respective dorms contributes to the horrid gen­der relations on campus. we can argue whether it is even worth it to argue about parietals or alcohol consumption in dorms; with how in­credibly easy it is to get away with breaking the rules in guy’s dorms, why does it matter? and obviously there are exceptions; some male dorms are very strict, and some female dorms even slightly avoid the rules! and if it both­ers someone that much, they can just move off campus! 
it doesn’t matter that women can move off campus to avoid the incredibly unfair enforce­ment in their dorms. it doesn’t matter whether the university’s rules on parietals or dorm alco­hol consumption build community. The problem is that the university’s administration is system­atically declaring that men should act one way with regards to alcohol and sex, while women should act in another. i have gradually become more and more alarmed by this revelation as i have realized the full extent of it; that my school is so horribly backwards in one aspect of its thinking that it cannot bring itself to treat men and women the same way on the topics of alcohol and sex. 
This revelation should be unacceptable to any student, any alumni, any faculty member, anyone even remotely associated with the university. For a university which strives to follow catholic ide­ology, a religion which prides itself on doing unto others as you would have others do unto you, it is certainly treating its very own notre dame women extremely poorly. i certainly hope that any women at notre dame does not feel slighted by the way she is treated by the university, but i cannot possibly expect this of any woman here; i, a male, am livid. i can hardly imagine actually living in a women’s dorm. 
The university can fix this. it will take a con­centrated effort, however, from administration, current students and alumni. as a community, we must realize that women deserve to be treated the exact same way as their male peers. we must push this on the university. domers cannot give the administration a free pass on this issue. we must hold the administration accountable for changing how parietals and alcohol consump­tion are handled in notre dame’s dorms. if that occurs, notre dame will destroy one of the few negative features about it. notre dame will re­tain its amazing and unique features: it will still be the same university we all love, but it will also be home to a happier and more comfortable community. 
Andrew Pott 
sophomore Feb. 10 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

“dope” begins with an easy transition from naughty by nature’s “hip hop hooray” to a bitcoin breakfast table dis­cussion. The 2015 film, directed by rick Famuyiwa, contin­ues in this “‘90s and now” limbo like your local F.m. radio station — but thankfully with a much better soundtrack. 
The three protagonists, malcolm (shameik moore), diggy (kiersey clemons) and Jib (Tony revolori) are into “white sh*t” like magna comics, donald glover, Tv on The radio and getting good grades. (note: revolori starred in wes anderson’s “The grand budapest hotel” as Zero — further affirming the crew’s “white sh*t” associa­tions.) The three indie nerds pick up clothes and vinyls at thrift stores to play up their ‘90s aesthetic, bicycle around inglewood and play in a punk band they formed (awreeho, pronounced “oreo”) after quitting marching band when prompted to learn the “harlem shake.” 
The above activities set them up as prime bait for corny bullies who steal their shoes in chase scenes — one of the satirical plays on ‘90s movies (the only memory malcolm has of his dad is being gifted “super Fly.”) another grating ‘90s retrospect is the beginning narration which superflu­ously introduces information any viewer would have fig­ured out soon enough on his or her own. Furthering the unfortunate narration, the stuck-in-the-‘90s narrator ques­tionably introduces diggy as “a lesbian — although, from 
By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

The last time i saw a movie in theaters, i watched the world end five times before the opening credits began to roll. apocalypse films have seemingly flooded the market; somewhere in hollywood is a room full of writers trying to script one starring Jennifer lawrence and a ragtag crew of animated minions. yet so few apocalypse films feel, well, apocalyptic. The end of the world is such a terrifying idea because it involves the death of everything and everyone we know. a commercial film simply doesn’t have the time to develop a world which we really care about saving or a cast of characters who we can’t imagine living without. 
The best apocalypse films know this. They don’t focus on bombastic images of falling skyscrapers or explod­ing planets. They focus instead on the personal, whether it’s the loneliness and survival of people in a dying world (“mad max: Fury road”) or the coping methods of those who find themselves looking their mortality in the face (“melancholia”). 
This focus on “personal apocalypse,” as pc powerplay’s excellent review notes, is what grants “life is strange” its incredible power. “life is strange” is a video game that follows in the footsteps of “gone home” by ditching con­ventional gameplay in order to craft a world and story of near-unparalleled richness and power in gaming. a twist between a mystery, adventure and art game, “life is strange” invites the player to investigate, explore and 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

the way she dresses you might not have noticed she was a girl.” 
alongside the cringe-worthy narration and stereotypi­cal bullies, the drug-dealing and violence of the inglewood neighborhood, named “The bottoms,” harkens back to movies produced during the ‘90s — but sometimes “dope” does so distastefully. in a beginning scene, a nerd is killed at a burger joint — it could be a poignant depiction, but it’s ex­ploited for laughs when blood covers his gameboy and Jib attempts to acquire his impressive comic book collection. 
an aspect of the ‘90s that “dope” gets right, alongside the colorful wardrobes, is the music. The soundtrack features nas and a Tribe called Quest next to watchTheduck and 
m.i.a. while roles are played by a$ap rocky, vince staples and casey veggies: the transition between the time periods is seamless in sound and more convincing than the “‘90s in 2016” plot aspects. alongside these tracks are the trio’s punk band songs — produced by pharrell williams. The reasoning behind the crew’s decision to form a punk band is never justified. doesn’t this contradict their acclaimed ‘90s hip-hop adoration?  is it to reiterate their indie persona? still, the music they perform is catchy and stands up to the proven tracks surrounding it. 
The film’s comedy lies in juxtaposed, not overdone tech­nology references: Jib longs for a waze-esque app that would show them bike routes to avoid thugs, a drug dealer chases malcolm via the Findmyiphone app on his ipad, and malcolm goes back and forth with his harvard interviewer/ 
photograph their environment in order to unravel the dis­appearance of rachel amber, a laura palmer-esque high school beauty queen. 
rachel’s disappearance is one of the many “personal apocalypses” that has devastated the individuals of the fictional, coastal oregan town of arcadia bay, which pro­vides the setting for the majority of the game. The loss of family members and the deterioration of characters’ men­tal health are mirrored in the ominous natural phenom­ena that wrack the area. as soon as the player steps into the wonderful universe of “life is strange,” the world is already ripping at the seams; a monstrous tornado tears across the pacific toward the town as adolescent protago­nist maxine “max” caulfied stumbles towards a mysteri­ous lighthouse for shelter. all of a sudden, the game snaps into the perceived present, where max struggles to under­stand her vision from her assigned seat in her high school photography class. as max searches for a connection be­tween her premonitions and rachel amber’s abandoned case, the lines between global and personal trauma blur to the point of indistinguishability. 
The time-shifting element hinted at in the opening scene is at the very heart of “life is strange.” as max, the player gains the ability to rewind time in order to change the outcome of events. how the player chooses to act drastically affects how the game’s story plays out; the sur­rounding characters in the game can be saved, killed, be­friended, alienated or provoked according to the player’s choices. as max approaches what she knows to be the end drug lord — another troubling plot aspect — in an analogy over amazon, macklemore, casey veggies and online mu­sic consumption. 
perhaps the line that best describes malcolm’s complex persona is when he touts his college essay as “if neil de grasse Tyson were writing about ice cube — this is what it would look like.” 
in the end, he scraps this essay for a variation on “the predictable piece about his struggle growing up poor in inglewood with a single mom.” however, he frames it as the two aspects of his personality: one, a straight-a kid who plays in a punk band, rides a bmX bike and watches “game of Thrones,” and also, a kid who goes to an underfunded school who lives with a single mom, never knew his father and has sold dope. The two powerful images are inter­twined as malcolm goes on to speak about never fitting into prescribed boxes and how it forced him to view life from many different angles. although the ending was a bit aesop Tale-esque — “the moral of the story is ... ” — the effect was powerful, especially as malcolm questions if people would ask him why he wants to attend harvard if he was white as he throws up his hood-evoking images of Trayvon martin. 
psa: do not turn off the movie during the credits. There is a montage of malcolm dancing solo to digital underground’s “The humpty dance,” and it was maybe my favorite part of the whole film — take that how you will. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
of the world, she is forced to come to terms with her in­ability to save everyone and everything she loves. pairing darkness with gorgeous, hand-drawn graphics and beau­tifully developed characters, “life is strange” deftly dives through a gauntlet of harrowing topics such as loss, guilt, drugs and sexual assault. at its conclusion, max learns how to cope with the suffering of those around her and ul­timately, her own. 
perhaps the greatest testament to the game’s success is the list of statistics revealed at the end of each chapter. upon the completion of one of the game’s “episodes,” the user can see what percentage of players made each choice; many of the most important decision a player can make are split with about half of the player base choosing each option. “life is strange” manages to do justice to the issues it tackles by capturing the difficult decisions a person must make while facing them. This, combined with the very vis­ible impact each choice has on the rest of the player’s ex­perience, makes it a remarkably rewarding game to play. 
“life is strange” manages a tough balance between a host of explosive elements that many other games, books and movies have fumbled in the past. at once hugely en­joyable, beautifully textured and exceptionally poignant, it captures at once the wonder and pain of the moments that shape the rest of our days. even when its world teeters on the brink of existence, “life is strange” finds a way to make its audience feel a little more alive. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


PERSONAL 

LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
“However [political parties] may now and then answer popular ends, they are likely in the course of time and things, to become 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: do your best to make a difference. don’t fold under pressure or work in service of something or someone you don’t believe in. Follow your heart and delve into the things that make you happy. if you make the most of your opportunities, you will be able to stand proud and tall. be the conduit that brings your dreams, hopes and wishes to fruition. your numbers are 2, 9, 13, 27, 36, 39, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): do your part. if you don’t agree with what’s going on, or if you have a better solution, say so. money will come to you from an unusual source. put it away in a safe place so you aren’t tempted to spend it frivolously. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): accept what you cannot change and move on. don’t let emotional matters get to you. Take a practical approach and look for alternative plans and you will find your way to a better place mentally and financially. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): emotional ups and downs can be expected. Try not to blow situations out of proportion or try to compensate for something you don’t like by being indulgent or difficult. Focus on yourself, make personal improvements and don’t be confrontational. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): an interesting proposition will come your way. look at all the angles and consider how you can use your time to take part in something that interests you. a change of location will inspire you. 



LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): gullibility will lead to vulnerability. Try to keep things in perspective and concentrate on making personal changes that will have you operating at your optimum levels. your good attitude and gentle nature will eventually rub off on others. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t hesitate or second-guess what you are capable of doing. Take ownership of your ideas and share your plans with the people you feel are capable of grasping what you want to do. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take it upon yourself to make the first move, and suggest something entertaining and fun that you can enjoy with loved ones. you can make subtle improvements to the way you look that will help rekindle a relationship in need of a pick-me-up. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get a clear picture of what you want and you won’t falter when putting your plans into motion. an opportunity to collaborate with someone with an abundance of talent will inspire your creativity. offer what you can in return. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): approach what you want to do in a reserved manner until you know where you stand and what challenges you face. don’t leave room for misunderstandings, and don’t make assumptions about the motivations of others. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): aim for victory. do the unexpected and keep everyone guessing. your ability to keep a secret and make changes without being noticed will help you win no matter what. a gift will come to you from an unusual source. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let emotions stand between you and what you want. if you get into a dispute with someone, choose to back away. bide your time, look at your options and choose the route that ensures your safety. learn from experience. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a secret matter will be revealed if you are not discreet. consider whether a situation you are in is worth your while. explore other options and you may discover that you can do better. put your own needs first. 

Birthday Baby: you are relentless, imaginative and progressive. you are entertaining and unique. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
potent engines, by which cunning, ambitious, and unprincipled men will be enabled to sub­vert the power of the people and to usurp for themselves the reins of government, destroy­ing afterwards the very engines which have lifted them to unjust dominion.” 
George Washington, Farewell Address, 1796 
To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

indiana hoops carries history 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
at this point, it’s become a tradition. 
The first week in march of every year, i watch the same movie. as a young kid, i watched it at home, unaware of the complexity of the under­lying plot. in junior high, our principal made sure to play it in the lunchroom during the week of the county tournament. and now in college, i’ll sit down in my dorm room Tuesday, turn the lights down and enjoy my favorite film. 
as any good indiana boy should answer, the movie is “hoosiers.” There is, however, a real-life story that parallels fictional hickory high’s 1952 title. 
you see, in 1954, 161-student milan high school blitzed through indiana’s all-comers, single-class state tournament to down 1,662-student power­house muncie central 32-30 in the state final when bobby plump — the real-life version of Jimmy chitwood — sunk the winning shot in the clos­ing seconds to power the single greatest result in my home state’s legendary high school basketball tradition. 
but while those milan indians inspired generations of small-school athletes until indiana finally shifted to class basketball in the late 1990s, a still-controversial decision nearly 20 years later, the team that won the title a year later may well have been more in­fluential in the landscape of indiana high school hoops. 
The story of that team goes back to the 1920s, when indianapolis opened crispus attucks high school, the first all-black high school in the city. while the original mission of attucks was to create a high school to get african-american students out of the city’s other public high schools, it grew into a school that thrived due to the segregation of the era — the school arguably had the best teachers of any in the state, with its black masters- and phd-holding faculty not being able to teach at the university level. 
sports, however, weren’t a strong focus at crispus attucks. The school was built with a gym of just 800 seats, incredibly small by indiana standards and smaller than the student popu­lation, and was denied mem­bership in the indiana high school athletic association for years. 
by the time head coach ray crowe ended his seven-year stint at crispus attucks however, basketball would become what the school was known for. after making deep runs in 1953 and 1954, only to be blocked by officiating and the aforementioned milan team, oscar robertson and his attucks team broke through, becoming the first all-black team in the country to win a state championship. 
while milan won its state title 32-30 behind a probing, methodical style, the “Flying Tigers” won theirs in a com­pletely different one, putting up 97 points in the state title game, a record high that stands to this day. it was a historic win, one that changed the face of basketball in indiana for years to come. 
but unlike the dozens of champions that had come be­fore it, crispus attucks didn’t get to properly celebrate its title in its home city, despite remarkably being the first team from indianapolis in the 45­year history of the tournament to win it. while previous cham­pions got to enjoy a celebration at monument circle, the cen­tral meeting spot in indiana’s capital, the attucks team was sent to a park for a bonfire. 
it was a stark reminder of what attucks had to face in the 1950s. and a story that a 700­word column can’t come close to properly telling. 
and like they do every march in indiana, the historic wins of milan and attucks, forever intertwined with each other, return to the forefront. while milan won one for all the other small schools that never had the chance, attucks blazed a trail, opening up the promised land for african-american ath­letes statewide. 
milan is the beautiful, hollywood-ready story that’s about a classic underdog, a tightly-knit rural community. That’s easy to portray. There’s nothing particularly nasty or difficult about it. 
yet, although attucks was just as deserving of a hollywood film as milan, they didn’t get it. a coming documentary, “The school That opened a city,” will have to suffice. 
our beloved state tourna­ment starts once more Tuesday, where action will open at 64 sites around the state. and across it, we’ll remember the legends that made it what it is 
— including robertson, crowe and their attucks team that changed everything in indiana. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | nd 14, colorado 4; nd 21, caliFornia 2 
offense propels notre dame to weekend sweep 
By BRETT O’CONNELL and ALEX CARSON 
sports writer and associate sports editor 

no. 6 notre dame kept its perfect start going over the weekend, downing colorado on Friday, 14-4, and topping california on sunday, 21-2. 
The irish (5-0, 1-0 acc) opened their weekend slowly against the buffaloes (3-1, 1-0 mpsF), with both teams struggling to maintain pos­session in their respective of­fensive zones in a game that stayed scoreless for the first twenty minutes. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny credited the poise of freshman goalie samantha giacolone for keeping her presence in the net and al­lowing the irish defense to play aggressively. 
“sam’s outstanding,” halfpenny said. “i think that she did a really nice job seeing the ball today — it’s something we know that she’s capable of. obviously we saw the fruits of all of her hard work and labor pay off last weekend, and i think it continues to speak to her getting comfortable with the speed of the game, trusting that defense in front of her. she made every save that we thought she should have tonight.” 
The game seemed poised to become a defensive show­case as the first half ticked on. however, once senior midfielder stephanie Toy broke through the colorado defense to score the game’s first goal, the irish had little trouble flexing their offen­sive muscles, scoring 12 un­answered goals on the way to their 14-4 victory. 
The irish relied on a bal­anced scoring attack during their spree, with the first nine goals of the game be­ing registered by nine dif­ferent players. halfpenny highlighted the play of junior midfielder casey pearsall, who registered a goal and two assists in the first two minutes of the second half. 
“[casey’s] vision is incred­ible,” halfpenny said. “This is the casey that was highly sought after in high school, and she has been nothing but a blessing to this pro­gram since she’s gotten here. definitely in the second half she kicked it into another gear. she’s showcasing her speed and her vision, as well as her game management, so i was really pleased.” 
where the irish struggled Friday, they thrived sunday, scoring twice in the first 34 seconds to open the 21-2 rout of california (0-3, 0-0 mpsF). 
Just 12 seconds after notre dame won the opening draw, junior attack cortney Fortunato fed senior attack rachel sexton for the first goal of the game and 22 sec­onds later, the irish were ahead 2-0 when pearsall scored. The irish won the first two draws of the game en route to a 20-4 advantage in draw controls, but halfpenny said there was more to notre dame’s early success than with the draw unit. 
“it might be simplistic, but we’ve been very, very focused on getting better each game out,” halfpenny said. “i think that part of getting better to­day was making sure that we just stuck to the game plan, which was [making sure that] when we have that fastbreak, [we] win the draw, push the break, push our second break and keep it unsettled as long as possible. 
“i think that we just took advantage of our speed, we took advantage around the draw circle and everybody had each other’s backs be­cause it wasn’t just our draw unit that helped us get out to that quick start.” 
it took a little over six min­utes before the irish scored again, but when they did, they hit quick, with sexton and junior attack heidi annaheim scoring 11 sec­onds apart to push the ad­vantage to 4-0. 
Freshman attack nikki ortega scored back-to-back goals before Fortunato bagged her first of the after­noon, putting the irish up 7-0 before 10 minutes had been played. senior attack kiera mcmullan scored just past the midway point of the half to extend notre dame’s lead to 10-0, instilling a running clock. all told, the irish led 16-0 before the golden bears got on the board when junior attack elizabeth pellechi scored a free-position op­portunity with 1:46 left in the half. 
it was a balanced offen­sive attack for notre dame on sunday, with each of its four leading scorers bag­ging hat tricks: sexton led with five goals while Fortunato, annaheim and ortega all snagged hat tricks. giacolone, who made two saves on three shots on goal in her 50 minutes and 37 sec­onds of action, had a rela­tively easy day as the irish defense was successful on 7 of 11 clear attempts. 
notre dame will look to stay unbeaten in its return to acc play saturday at louisville. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu and Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 


CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish junior midfielder Casey Pearsall carries the ball down the field during Notre Dame’s 14-4 win over Colorado on Friday at Loftus Sports Center. Pearsall had a goal and two assists in the Irish victory. 

The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

punches coming his way. The for chestnut’s head as much as retaliated with solid head shots, both fighters waiting for their 
Bouts 

bell sounded and carroll, a possible. his strong combina-and one blow of his knocked time to strike. willis found an 
conTinued From page 16 

senior captain, won by unani-tions allowed him to maintain Flint down as the round ended. opening and landed a blow 
mous decision. control. shea said the key to his The second round began to mcosker, which started a def. Danny “Nacho Tigre” carroll said the key to his vic-victory was his experience. with Flint rushing shepard into standing count from the refer-Espinoza tory was his conditioning. “[The key to the win] was ex-ropes and then across the ring ee. both fighters landed head-
The first round began in a “i just pressured right from perience,” shea said. “i think to the opposite corner. Flint shots to close out the round. game of cat-and-mouse, as the start and relied on my lungs i had just a little bit of an edge kept on the offensive, forcing The second round started both fighters patiently looked to keep a heavy pace the whole in ringmanship and that was shepard to keep his guard up with willis attacking and forc­for an opening. alcantara, a ju-fight,” carroll said. “i took a lot what the difference was. ryan’s and be on the defensive. a big ing mcosker to the ropes. nior in alumni, sought to gain of shots trying to work my way a great boxer — watch out. in swing from Flint and a strong mcosker managed to escape a quick advantage by bringing in, but i was able to stay on a the next few years, he is going counter by shepard brought the and land a strong hook, causing the fight into close quarters, high enough motor to win.” to tear it up.” fighters into the third round in willis to bleed from his nose. where he could use his quick-chestnut stayed in the fight, an even bout. unfazed, willis rebounded and ness to land some good hits 157 pounds however, using his mobility to in the third round, the boxers landed four consecutive hits to to the body, while espinoza, a his advantage. shea took con-met in the middle and connect-force another standing count senior in st. edward’s, tried to Patrick “Starsky” Lawler trol with a more offensive ap-ed on hits to each other’s head. before the end of the round. catch alcantara off-guard with def. Sean Himel proach in the final round, and Flint said he understood the in the third round, willis his reach. both fighters man-lawler, a sophomore in one particularly strong left importance of the third round maintained control of the fight. aged to land some hits, but the Fisher, started the fight with hook to the side of chestnut’s and turned his focus to closing he used a barrage of punches bell sounded with neither hav-an aggressive pace, immedi-head left chestnut looking out the match strongly. to force mcosker into a corner, ing a clear advantage after one ately attacking himel. lawler’s shaken. although chestnut “i’m a third round guy,” Flint where he was able to dodge and round. mobility allowed him to force was able to recover and use his said. “going out, i knew i had hit mcosker. as fatigue set in, 
it was much of the same in himel, a duncan senior, to reach to his advantage, it was two hard minutes ahead of me. mcosker was able to connect the second round, as alcantara move around the ring, and he not enough to fend of shea’s ad-i knew Jack hadn’t been in that on some hits, but ultimately, kept coming inside before get-was also able to simultane-vances, and shea took the fight situation before and i had.” he could not catch up to willis. ting wrapped up by espinoza. ously evade himel’s advances by unanimous decision. Flint bull-rushed shepard willis won the title by unani­as time went on, however, the by getting low. The fight main-into the ropes and connected mous decision and the senior fight started to loosen up, and tained a fast pace throughout 175 pounds with a big blow to open the final credited his length as the key to just before the bell sounded, all three rounds, and lawler round. The match ended with his success. both fighters exchanged a flur-said he wanted to come out Zach “Bedrock” Flint def. a series of dodges and one-two “eamon is so fast,” willis ry of punches. aggressively. Jack “Not the guy from punches by Flint before the bell said. “i was just a little bit lon­
in the third and final round, “[himel] is the captain,” lost” Shepard sounded. Flint was awarded the ger, that’s what it came down alcantara came out swing-lawler said. “he’s gonna be re-in the 175-pound weight di-victory by split decision. to. we were trading on almost ing, and looked to land a big ally technically sound. and i vision championship bout, all our blows in the first and blow before the bell sounded. knew i was the shorter boxer seniors Zach Flint and Jack 182 pounds second round, but i don’t have espinoza tried to set the tone, going in. so i just focused on shepard boxed for their final to expend quite as much energy but alcantara kept up his game getting low and keeping my time at notre dame. The two Brian “Cheese” Willis def. since i’m longer, and i was able plan of staying inside, where he hands up. i’ve worked my butt experienced fighters began the Eamon “Gravy” McOsker to sit back and hit eamon where managed to land several good off this season, and i let [that] fight calmly, neither willing both boxers opened the he couldn’t hit me.” hooks to the head and body. as get the victory for me, because to overcommit and put them-match with strong and fast a result, alcantara was award-it was a long six minutes.” selves in a position of weak-punches. willis used his reach 191 pounds ed the victory by unanimous lawler remained in control ness. midway through the first to get off relentless combina­decision. in the second round, knocking round, they met in middle and tions of left and right jabs. Jack Considine def. Jason 
“i think i did a good job of set-himel around. himel was able began exchanging blows. Flint, mcosker countered the on-“Downtown” Ellinwood ting the pace early and really to come back slightly, catch-a resident in siegfried, rushed slaught with jabs of his own. The boxers began the match being controlled with my ag-ing lawler against the ropes shepard into the ropes. shepard The first round continued with meticulously, waiting each gression,” alcantara said. “hats multiple times, but lawler was 
paid adverTisemenT 
off to danny, he’s a great fighter able to dodge and escape on and he fought a great fight and each occasion. lawler’s speed really pushed me, but i couldn’t and mobility allowed him to be happier with the result.” back himel across the ring. 
lawler’s punches were strong 152 pounds and impactful, ending the sec­
ond round with a solid punch to Kieran Carroll def. Jack himel’s head. “Hi my name is Liam” in the final round, lawler McDermott maintained his control, picking 
The opening round began himel up and tossing him com-with a flurry of blows from pletely to the ground which re­carroll, who came out look-sulted in a stoppage of play by ing to set the tone against his the referee. himel’s strong de­younger opponent. mcdermott fense allowed him to keep the tried to keep up, but carroll match close, but lawler won managed to land some early the fight by split decision. hits to seize the advantage. as the round went on, mcdermott 163 pounds did manage to gain his footing and get some punches in, but as Pat Shea def. Ryan the bell sounded, carroll was Chestnut still in the lead. both fighters bided their time 
in the second round, carroll to start the first round, with once again came out swing-chestnut, an o’neill sopho­ing, but mcdermott was ready, more, going on the offensive and managed to catch the se-first with a strong hook to shea’s nior off-balance and send him head. however,  the keough se­sprawling. carroll got right nior shea came back quickly, back up, however, and contin-knocking chestnut off balance. ued his barrage. mcdermott shea quickly took a more ag­stood tall and took some blows, gressive approach, aiming for but only managed to land a few chestnut’s head, and chestnut of his own. was forced to duck to defend 
The final round began with himself. chestnut’s mobility both fighters trading punch-kept the fight very close, how-es. as time went on, however, ever, as he was able to keep shea carroll used his reach to land on the run throughout the fight. punch after punch to the head chestnut maintained a similar of mcdermott. mcdermott aggressive strategy early in the tried to fight back, but tired as second round. both fighters the fight went on and could do took their time and attacked little to stop the multitude of strategically, with shea going other out and looking for a time to strike. both men had dif­ficulty connecting on hits as each boxer was skillful in their blocking. The round continued with blocks until considine fi­nally was able to break through ellinwood’s guard and connect on a hard swing right before the bell sounded. The even match continued into the second round, but considine said he came out with a new strategy. 




“it’s so hard to tell [who was in the lead],” considine said. “it was pretty even the first round, but then after that i was charg­ing the entire time.” 
The junior focused on put­ting the senior ellinwood on the defensive for the rest of the fight. Finally breaking down ellinwood’s defense, considine connected on a series of hits, while ellinwood was barely able to counter. 
as fatigue set in during the third round, the defensive bout turned offensive. both ellinwood and considine made strong swings left and right, but considine was more suc­cessful in landing his. a series of one-two combinations from considine against the weak­ened defensive ellinwood put considine in the driver’s seat. ellinwood was able to land a strong uppercut towards the end of the round, but ultimate­ly could not come back in the fight. The title was awarded to considine by unanimous decision. 
207 pounds 
Pat Gordon def. Montana Giordano 
gordon came out strong in the first round, landing several hard punches to the face of giordano, including one that sent giordano to the floor right before the bell.  in the second round, gordon continued land­ing quality punches, frequently employing combinations of punches that the morrissey freshman could not counter. gordon said his strategy was to counterattack his way to victory. 
“my strategy is being a coun­ter-puncher,” gordon said. “i like to sit back and wait for the other guy to throw a punch, try to parry and then counter-punch — either my two versus a righty or my jab versus a lefty — but obviously you cannot coun­terpunch the entire match.”  
gordon successfully mixed up his punches, and as a re­sult, giordano was unable to do much offensively. giordano was constantly on the defensive against gordon, who landed a flurry of punches right before the end of the second round. 
giordano did not let up in the third round, as several times he pushed giordano up against the ropes while simultane­ously landing punches to the stomach and head of his oppo­nent. by the end of the match, gordon was running giordano, who was protecting his face at all costs, all around the ring. gordon secured the victory by unanimous decision. 
Heavyweight 
Matt “Here comes the” Boomer def. Fr. Nathan “The Exorcist” O’Halloran 
The first round started with both fighters swinging aggres­sively. both landed punches early on, but o’halloran land­ed a flurry of blows that drove boomer against the ropes and forced a tie-up. boomer recov­ered, however, and the round ended with both fighters will­ing to conserve some of their energy for the later rounds. 
boomer controlled the early part of the second round, land­ing multiple punches to the face of o’halloran. boomer fol­lowed that up by landing a few more quality punches, and the round ended with o’halloran visibly frustrated. 

in the last round, boomer landed a couple of direct punch­es to the face of his opponent. however, o’halloran, buoyed by the crowd, came back with a bull-rush against boomer, landing several punches and severely bloodying the nose of boomer. boomer was able to land one hard punch to the head of o’halloran before the bell sounded. boomer said the fight boiled down to who could throw more punches. 
“[it was] two [big] guys throwing heavy haymakers — there wasn’t a lot of rhyme or reason to what was going on in there,” boomer said. “we were just going right at it.” 
in the end, both fighters were visibly exhausted, and the judg­es awarded boomer the win by split decision. 
Super heavyweight 
Logan Plantz def. Jackson Wrede 
in the first round, there was an evident contrast in styles, as the smaller, yet quicker wrede had trouble landing punches against plantz’s much larger frame. plantz dominated the center of the ring and was fre­quently able to land punches to the body of wrede. 
in the second round, wrede was able to land uppercuts to the side of plantz’s head. however, plantz was able to land a huge punch that sent wrede tumbling to the floor, causing a stoppage. plantz said the key to fight for him was stamina. 
“i just tried to control my heavy breathing, push through the whole morbid obesity hold­ing me back, and i made it through,” plantz said.  
wrede was able to bounce back during the later portion of the second round, landing sev­eral punches to the head of the slower plantz. 
in the third round, wrede continued his tactics from ear­lier, but plantz was able to coun­terattack with strong punches to the face of wrede. however, wrede, with more energy than platz in the final round, was able to dance away from some punches while landing many of his own — fearlessly launching himself at plantz. however, it was not enough, as the judges awarded a split-decision vic­tory to plantz. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu, Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu, 
R.J. Stempak at  rstempak@nd.edu and Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 



MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 14, deTroiT 5 
Wynne’s six goals power Irish victory 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
Just three games into the sea­son, no.1 notre dame already appears to be in midseason form. 
The irish (3-0) ousted detroit, 14-5, this saturday afternoon at loftus sports center. 
against bellarmine on wednesday, the irish struggled to get into an offensive rhythm in the second half, but it seems that those issues have been addressed since then. despite allowing a score to the Titans (0-3) within the first minute and nine seconds, the irish re­sponded by taking off on a 7-0 run. 
sophomore attack mikey wynne recorded the first three goals of notre dame’s run. The first was a result of junior midfielder sergio perkovic’s shot being deflected in front of the net. wynne immediately picked up the ground ball in front of the goal and scored the first of his six goals during the game. 
after wynne’s dominant first quarter performance, the irish offense went on to score three more goals in the first two minutes of the second quar­ter. Freshman midfielder drew schantz scored his first colle­giate goal off an assist by senior attack matt kavanagh early in the quarter. kavanagh scored a mere 15 seconds later, and then, perkovic fired a shot to score the first of his four goals just 33 seconds after kavanagh’s score. 
“we were outplaying them,” irish head coach kevin corrigan said. “we had 22 shots to [detroit’s] nine in the first half. we had the better of play the whole time, but some­times the ball doesn’t go in. Their goalie made some saves, and we didn’t finish some balls that we would’ve liked to finish. … something we need to con­tinue to work on is being more selective shooting the ball. we sometimes settle for something early in a possession when i know we can get better if we just are a little more determined to [get] a better shot.” 
in the second half, the irish picked up right where they left off in the first. 
notre dame went on a 4-0 run in the third quarter to make it a 12-2 lead. at that point in the game, corrigan removed most of his starters to both prevent injury and to allow some of the less experienced players play­ing time, he said. The Titans outscored the irish 3-2 in the final quarter to cut the deficit down to nine goals, but it was too late to make any serious at­tempt at a comeback. 
The irish outplayed the Titans across all aspects of the contest. They won the face off battle 15-7, had a 32-29 advan­tage in ground balls and main­tained a 28-16 advantage in shots on goal. despite the dom­inant performance, corrigan said there were flaws in his team’s play. 
“They won the first face off, had a good possession and got one there,” corrigan said. “but honestly, i thought that the big­gest thing there was that our stick work was a little bit sloppy. when i look back at most of the turnovers we made, we were playing good offense, doing all the right things, and then, just throwing the ball away. we just need to be cleaner with our stick work, and that’ll be a point of emphasis for us this week.” 
after the game, corrigan had a strong message for his team: “before becoming champions, you need to carry yourselves as champions.” corrigan said he has stressed that he is more concerned about the quality of his team’s play than what the scoreboard displays. by focus­ing on the quality of play, the accolades will surely follow suit, he added. 
“i don’t think we’ve changed our style at all,” corrigan said. “i don’t think we’ve changed anything, and that’s a reminder that we’ve given our guys for a long time. you carry yourselves as champions, and that’s how you get to be a great team at the end of the year. whether you’re the national champion or not, there are a given number of teams within any given year that have a great year, and we want to be one of those teams. we feel like the character as­pect to that and conducting themselves right, on and off the field, is a big part of that. That’s nothing new.” 
The irish will travel to orange county, california, on saturday to face maryland in the pacific coast shootout at 8 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
Terriers (18-9-5, 12-6-4). 

“it really helps morale [en­tering the playoffs with a win],” petersen said. “we’ve played pretty well, at least the effort’s been there. … The last couple games it was more or less a couple bounces here, a couple bounces there and little minor breakdowns that unfortunately ended up in our net. and i think that was kind of frustrating because we felt like we were playing good games. 
“ … To get another top-10 win, which have been kind of hard to come by, is fantastic.” 
“i had told the guys this morning, ‘we may have to win 1-0,’ and obviously cal was listening,” irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. “he was phenomenal. he played extremely well and obviously saved the game at the end. 
“ … That was his best game of the season, certainly.” 
petersen’s best save saturday night came with just under five minutes re­maining in the game and the Terriers flying around the irish zone. notre dame’s defense lost track of bu se­nior forward danny o’regan at the far post, leaving him wide open just a few feet from the irish net. a Terrier defenseman found o’regan with a pass from the opposite point, and he had time and space to cut to the middle of the ice, alone and in front of petersen. 
“i saw that he was over there, and he was kind of uncovered,” petersen said. “when the guy made the pass over there, i was able to kind of figure that [o’regan] was going to try to go back the other way went i went over, so i was able to catch my edge when i slid over and [was] able to push back against the grain. 
“but look, i mean, it was kind of an educated guess there that he didn’t try and shoot right away, but i knew he was probably going to try to pull it back to the center of the net where he had more ice, and i was just lucky to get a pad on it.” 
“he’s an elite goalie.” 
The craziness was far from over after petersen’s stone­walling of o’regan though, as the Terriers pounded shots towards the irish net in search of the equalizer. notre dame blocked four shots in the final 1:30 after bu pulled senior goalie sean maguire for an extra attacker, and the one puck that made it past the irish shot blockers was turned away by petersen, who emphatically gloved the shot through traffic by bu freshman defenseman charlie mcavoy with just 1.5 seconds remaining. 
“i think this was the most important game of the year, from a confidence perspec­tive but also knowing how we’re going to have to play in the playoffs,” Jackson said. “keep the game small, not try to do too much, not over ex­tend ourselves. … Just mak­ing smart puck decisions and making sure that we do a good job coming back help­ing out in our own end. 
“and you win in the play­offs with special teams and goaltending. That’s what we had tonight.” 
in addition to killing off all three bu power-play chances saturday night, notre dame capitalized on its own: irish freshman left wing dylan malmquist registered the lone tally in saturday night’s game on the power play, as his centering feed to senior center Thomas dipauli in front of the Terrier net hit maguire’s stick and pads and somehow trickled its way across the goal line with just over eight minutes left in the second period. 
it was malmquist’s 11th goal of the season, which leads all irish freshman skat­ers and puts him one behind dipauli, who leads the team. 
dipauli and senior left wings mario lucia and sam herr, along with backup goalie nick stasack, defense-man andy ryan and center and two-year team captain steven Fogarty, were all honored before saturday’s contest as part of the team’s senior night. The festivities also included a rendition of the national anthem by Jim cornelison, the regular an­them singer for the nhl’s chicago blackhawks. 
Fogarty scored on a re­bound with 1:32 remain­ing Friday night to bring notre dame within a goal in the closing seconds, but the irish were unable to find the equalizer, falling to the Terriers, 3-2, in the first game of the weekend series. irish sophomore center connor hurley buried a power play goal in the closing seconds of the first period to tie the game, 1-1, but goals by Terrier senior forward mike moran and mcavoy were too much for the irish to overcome. 
with saturday night’s vic­tory, notre dame clinched the third seed in the hockey east playoffs and has a bye during the first round next weekend. notre dame then hosts the winner of northeastern and maine the following weekend for a best-of-three series, and the winner advances to the hockey east semifinals at Td garden in boston. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
sharpshooting from behind the arc set the tone in a good day for the seminoles, who hit on 11 of 24 attempts. 
“i thought they made some tough 3s that kind of broke our back anytime we looked like we had a little life to close it,” brey said. 
The win snapped a five-game losing streak for a Florida state team that had drifted out of serious con­tention for an ncaa tour­nament slot; only one team has ever made the tourna­ment as an at-large team at four games under .500 in its conference slate, a record the seminoles could have only avoided with two wins to close their regular sea­son, including the one they got saturday over the irish. “i give Florida state all the credit in the world, thought they played 

fantastic, and they shot the heck out of the ball,” brey said. “They deserved it. i think they played with more edge than us, which i was disappointed in, but we had really a hard time defend­ing them at all [saturday].” 
while Florida state was looking to keep slim at-large hopes alive saturday, notre dame had plenty to play for as well, with a shot at a top-four seed in the acc tournament on the line. 
“i was hoping we’d be a little more energized,” brey said. “but you know, you’re in the dog days now a lit­tle bit. These guys aren’t robots.” 
notre dame returns to action wednesday night at 7 p.m. when it hosts no. 12 miami at purcell pavilion in its penultimate regular-season game. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
it’s one thing to have the ex­pectation, but it’s something else to be able to get the job done.” 
notre dame (28-1, 16-0 acc) became the third dif­ferent school to claim three straight acc crowns out­right, a feat that has not hap­pened since duke did so from 2001-2004. The irish join that duke team as the only two acc squads to wrap up a three-season span with just one conference loss. 
The victory also marked the final home game for senior guards michaela mabrey and hannah huffman and gradu­ate student guard madison cable. notre dame has won 26 of its last 28 senior day matchups. 
“They were in charge of the culture,” mcgraw said of this year’s senior class. “They’ve done a great job with that. what we are going to miss from them is so much more than statistics because of the way they lead and the tough­ness that they bring. They are competitive. They have a sense of urgency. They un­derstand what it takes to be at the level we want to be at. They try to get the freshmen to understand that, too. 
“Their leadership this year has really been phenomenal. statistically, they’ve done great things, too, but all three of them have added so much more in terms of our culture.” 
with huffman joining mabrey and cable in the starting lineup, the irish raced out to a fast start, led by their seniors. within the first four minutes of the game, huffman had collect­ed a steal and ensuing coast-to-coast layup, cable swiped two more steals, and mabrey had hit two 3s. 
notre dame made basket after basket and had built itself a 25-12 lead by the end of the first quarter, with the irish offense shooting 83.3 percent from the field. 
by the time halftime rolled around, the irish were up over the eagles (14-15, 2-14 acc), 42-24, and boston college was shooting just 34.6percent. 

“They shot 73 percent in the first half, and it wasn’t that they shot the lights out,” eagles head coach erik Johnson said. “when they get an open 3, sure, they make it. what makes them special is that they are the highest 3-point percentage shooting team around, but they don’t shoot that many because they go out and get layups, they get great shots. They are able to be balanced, and they are able to share the ball and create shots for each other.” 
For notre dame, cable had already picked up 11 of her team-leading 20 total points by the break. 
“she’s the heart and soul of our team,” mcgraw said of cable. “she is the most com­petitive, the hardest worker, and she will give it all for the team every single day. she will take a charge, dive for loose balls and give it 110 percent every single minute she is on the floor — practic­es or games, it doesn’t mat­ter. she plays hard every day. … we would not be where we are without her.” 
Though notre dame start­ed the third quarter with an 18-point lead, that advantage 

paid adverTisemenT 

gradually decreased as the home team struggled on of­fense in the second half, shooting 36.7 percent and making just one of its 10 3-point attempts. The eagles heated up a bit, coming through on 46.4 percent of their shots in the second half and outscored notre dame in the final two quarters, 34-28. 
sophomore forward brianna Turner and freshman guard arike ogunbowale each contributed 15 points and eight rebounds as the irish had established enough of a cushion in the first half to secure the final 70-58 victory. 
“i wish the second half as been as good [as the first half],” mcgraw said. “it would’ve been nice to finish it better.” 
with the acc regular sea­son title in their possession, the irish earned the no. 1 seed and a double-bye at this week’s acc tournament in greensboro, north carolina. They will play Friday at 2 p.m. against the winner of no. 8-seed duke and no. 9-seed virginia. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 70-58 
Notre Dame tops BC, completes 14-0 home slate 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
before each season begins, notre dame writes out a list of goals its players want to accom­plish as a team. 
The no. 2 irish checked the first off their list saturday, when they clinched the outright acc regular season title with a 70­58 win over boston college at purcell pavilion. 
The conference champion­ship is the fifth-straight one notre dame has earned, going back to the team’s final two sea­sons in the big east. 
“it’s been amazing, it re­ally has, the run that we’ve had,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “no matter who graduates, we can keep our tra­dition going, and i think that means a lot to me. … Just to have the players come in with those kinds of expectations and to be able to fulfill them. 
see w bball PAGE 15 


HOCKEY | bu 3, nd 2; nd 1, bu 0 
petersen blanks bu on saturday 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
sports editor 
cal petersen has started ev­ery game for no. 10 notre dame this season, allowing just 2.08 goals per game and posting 
a .932 save percentage while leading his team to a 19-8-7 re­cord and a first-round bye in the hockey east playoffs. The soph­omore goalie from waterloo, iowa, was also named a mike richter award nominee on Friday, which is awarded an­nually to college hockey’s top netminder. 
yet for all his outstanding numbers and performances in net this season, there was one achievement that still eluded him this season enter­ing saturday night: a shutout. whether it was tough bounces or goals late in the game — like the one maine scored on him with just 2:49 left in regulation two weekends ago during notre dame’s 5-1 victory — petersen had still been shut out of that column. 
he chose the perfect time to buck that trend. 
with his team on a three-game losing streak and the third seed in the hockey east playoffs on the line entering its series finale with no. 9 boston university, petersen turned away all 39 shots he faced to lead notre dame to a crucial 1-0 victory saturday night at compton Family ice arena. 
“Finally,” petersen said, laughing as he settled into his chair for postgame availability. 
as important as the shutout was to him, peterson said it was even more meaningful for the team’s momentum head­ing into the postseason: notre dame (19-8-7, 15-5-2 hockey east) had lost three straight contests to top-tier teams after being swept on the road by no. 5 providence two weekends ago and dropping a 3-2 decision in Friday night’s contest with the 
see hockey PAGE 14 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | Florida sTaTe 77, nd 56 
nd blown out  at Florida state 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
no. 23 notre dame’s shot at a top-four seed in the acc tournament suffered a blow saturday, as the irish were thrashed at Florida state, 77-56. 
despite 12 points and a ca-reer-high 17 rebounds from se­nior forward Zach auguste, the irish (19-9, 10-6 acc) never got things cooking saturday in a game it never led. after ties at 3-3, 5-5 and 7-7, the seminoles (17-12, 7-10) burst for a 9-0 run to take the lead it would hold the rest of the way. 
Two free throws from junior guard demetrius Jackson cut the hosts’ lead to 18-17 just past the midway point of the first half, but notre dame never had the chance to go ahead, surren­dering seven points in 31 sec­onds to start the onslaught that put the irish in a sizable hole at halftime. 
Florida state’s quick 7-0 run cascaded into a larger 28-11 one that saw Florida state car­ry a 46-30 lead into the half. it marked the 10th time in 16 acc games this season the irish trailed at halftime, and just as was the case in road losses at virginia, syracuse and miami (Fla.), notre dame failed to mount a comeback in the sec­ond half. 
“i was over it at about the 15-minute mark of the second half,” irish head coach mike brey said. “ … i wasn’t feeling it because Florida state was really playing well.” 
brey attributed his team’s of­fensive struggles — the irish scored a season-low 56 points 
— to an all-around, quality ef­fort from the seminoles. 
“They’ve got length that can really get in passing lanes,” brey said. “when you do get some stuff at the bucket — how many did they block? They blocked seven. […] when you can’t any of those easies that make you feel good, god, that demoral­izes you. i think it was a com­bination of their bigs and their guards on the point of attack.” 
while auguste set a career high on the boards, it was seminoles freshman guard dwayne bacon who stole the show saturday. he went 3-for-5 from 3-point range and 7-for-11 from the field in a 21-point performance. bacon’s 
see m bball PAGE 15 
BENGAL BOUTS | Finals 

Bouts crown champions 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT, ELIZABETH GREASON, R.J. STEMPAK and JOE EVERETT 
sports writers 
137 pounds 

Michael “Munchkin” Kappaz def. Atticus “Finch” Coscia 
The first fight of the finals began in tremendous style, as the first round saw both fighters come out swinging. kappaz managed to land some early body shots, but coscia picked up momentum as the first round drew on. kappaz continued to land the occa­sional right jab, but the high­light of the round came when coscia caught his opponent on the ropes and managed to string together a series of hits. 
The second round started with both fighters trading blows once again, but coscia was able to control the pace and move kappaz around the ring, landing punch after punch. kappaz tried to get off his back foot with the occa­sional big swing, but coscia held firm, and continued to land punches. however, kappaz was not finished yet, and he said he was able to turn the fight around by becoming more aggressive. 
“i tried to get inside of him because he’s got long arms and he goes non-stop with one-twos one-twos,” kappaz said. “so getting inside and throw­ing hooks to the body early helped to bring his hands down and open up some opportuni­ties for me. you get really tired by the third round, but you just gotta push through it and see the finish line.” 
kappaz came out with a ven­geance in the final round and began to dictate the fight with some powerful jabs to both the head and body of coscia. coscia tried to hang on, but as both fighters tired, kappaz kept swinging and landed multiple right jabs that sent coscia reeling. kappaz held on and ultimately won the fight by split decision. 

144 pounds 
Alex “El Cadejo” Alcantara 
see bouTs PAGE 12 




