The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 86 | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ESPN’s College GameDay visits Notre Dame 
Ahead of ND’s upset of No. 2 North Carolina, fans pack Purcell Pavilion for live broadcast 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
espn’s college gameday analyst seth greenberg prom­ised an unforgettable show and an even more incredible game at a media session Friday af­ternoon. as students packed purcell pavilion for the broad­cast and the irish overcame a 15-point deficit saturday eve­ning to beat the basketball pow­erhouse and second-ranked north carolina, greenberg’s promise was fulfilled. 
“This game is just gonna be a good game, and this place is just steeped in so much tradi­tion, to see and experience it in a different way, it’s pretty great,” greenberg said. 
hours before tip-off, greenberg appeared on the espn college gameday show with fellow analysts Jay williams and Jay bilas and host rece davis. 
“what makes a great gameday show for us is when you walk in and it’s a packed house. when you’ve got that ownership and energy and pas­sion and the students are into it, for me that’s the closest i get to coaching again,” greenberg said. 
That positive energy is a ma­jor component of a good show, greenberg said. 
“but really it’s about the en­ergy in the building. you know, you come out and play a game november and it’s half full, 
see gameday PAGE 5 



Mendoza highlights ethical business practices 

By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
mendoza college of business will host its 19th annual ethics week, devot­ed to examining different facets of ethical business practices, from Feb 8. to 11. The week will include a va­riety events and several dif­ferent speakers. 
mendoza teaching pro­fessor brian levey said the week is also a continuation of the legacy of John houck, a notre dame management professor who died in 1996. 

“our last two deans were very fond of saying ‘ethics is in our dna,’ and so much of what we do today goes back to this quote from Fr. o’hara [the first dean of the college], that the primary function of commerce is to serve mankind,” levey said. “we think of it in terms of management and market­ing and accounting and finance, but all of that ulti­mately is to serve mankind on some level and create something where there is nothing.” 
The week is co-spon­sored by the notre dame deloitte center for ethical leadership, and the events are free and open to the pub­
lic. levey said the events are aimed at the entire notre dame community, 
see mendoZa PAGE 5 


Janitor charged with possession of child pornography 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this story appeared online Feb. 5. 
st. Joseph county police ar­rested a saint mary’s janitor Friday and charged him with nine felonies “related to the pos­session of child pornography and child exploitation,” accord­ing to press release from the st. Joseph county prosecutor’s office. college students, fac­ulty and staff received an email Friday afternoon from college counsel rich nugent notifying them of the arrest. 
“building services employee luis morales was taken into po­lice custody at his home yester­day for allegedly downloading and distributing child pornog­raphy from his personal com­puter. The st. Joseph county police department cybercrimes unit attributed the criminal ac­tivity to a single ip address on our campus. police would later determine that morales used the college’s wireless network during his overnight shift when he was scheduled to clean the library,” nugent stated in the email. 
nugent said the college acted promptly to identify the per­son responsible for the crimes. both nugent and the st. Joseph county prosecutor’s office stated there is no evidence that stu­dents, faculty or staff were in danger or harmed by morales. 
“The charges against morales are very troubling. such activ­ity is heinous and deplorable and will not be tolerated by this administration. The college suspended morales without pay pending the outcome of our own investigation. he has also been informed that he is not to come to campus,” nugent said. 
a saint mary’s maintenance worker was fired and arrested in april 2014 for voyeurism at the college. david summerfield pled guilty to misdemeanor voy­eurism and criminal mischief in august 2014, and he was sen­tenced to 30 days in prison and a 30-day probation period follow­ing his prison sentence. 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What sign would you have made for College GameDay? 

Joe Lemna 
sophomore 
o’neill hall 
“‘university of nasal congestion,’ with a photo of marcus paige picking his nose.” 
Pete Freeman 
sophomore 
knott hall 
“i predict an 80-76 upset.” 
Dane Jeong 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“There’s a court storm coming.” 

Ryan Richelsen 
freshman morrisey manor 
“bonsai bonzie.” 
Jack Hughes 
freshman 
morrisey manor 
“‘unc wins.’ – steve harvey.” 
JJ Janzer 
freshman 
morrisey manor 
“i [heart] south bend.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers Zach klonsinski 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

rachel o’grady marek mazurek megan valley 
Scene 

Graphics Jimmy kemper 
lauren weldon Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Viewpoint 
Photo claire radler 

caitlyn Jordan Data Breach: Failures “The Collapse of Christ for the Curious Mindful Meditation Freshman Retreat and Follow-Ups Arthur Andersen” Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse Giovanini Commons Giovanini Commons Center Center Center 
12:30p.m.-1:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 7 p.m-8 p.m. 5:15 p.m-6:15 p.m. 4 p.m.-11 p.m. 
Corrections 
Notre Dame Ethics Larry Katzen explores Fireside chat series on Open to participants of Retreat for integrating 

The observer regards itself as Week speaker.  ethics issues. the life of Jesus. all faiths. faith with college life. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Student Recital “Crafting a Strong Paul Cunningham Iron Sharpens Iron Hockey vs. Maine 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Little Theatre Grant Proposal” Reading Coleman-Morse Compton Family Ice 

however, recognize that we will make 
12 p.m.-2 p.m. Brownson Hall Hammes Bookstore Center Arena 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Performance by 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 7:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 6:35 p.m.-8:35 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Saint Mary’s Music Learn how to craft a Former Notre Dame Weekly praise and The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 
Department students. compelling application. M.F.A. student will read. worship service. Black Bears. 



Students participate in Polar Bear Plunge 
paid adverTisemenT 



there’s hazards involved, there’s a lot of other things that come into play. 
massoud said students’ mo­tivations for deciding to take the plunge ranged from help­ing their dorm win the “gold­en plunger prize” for most participation, to crossing an item off the notre dame “bucket list.” 
“it’s for a really good cause and it’s one of those typi­cal notre dame ‘bucket list items,’” she said. “you try to hit up the cool signature events. how many people re­ally get to say that they’ve done something like this? and it does give you an adren­aline rush.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmc observer 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
with temperatures hov­ering just around freezing saturday afternoon, notre dame students plunged into st. Joseph’s lake for badin hall’s seventh annual polar bear plunge. 
registration for the plunge cost $5, and all proceeds benefit the hope initiative, a charity founded by badin hall fellow ann-marie conrado, an assistant profes­sor in the department of art, art history and design. Junior angela massoud, who over­saw the organization of this year’s plunge, said the event 
— as well as another of badin hall’s fundraisers, conscious christmas — raises money for an orphanage and women in nepal. 
“They have an orphan­age over in nepal, so what we’re raising money for is so those kids can go to the good schools in the area,” she said. “we’re supporting women and their jobs in nepal, so you’re kind of supporting the women’s movement, as well. what we do for conscious christmas is they make all their items, so everything we sell at conscious christmas is handmade in nepal and all the proceeds go back to them.” 
senior chau-ly phan, who was in charge of organiz­ing last year’s plunge, said badin residents who wanted 

paid adverTisemenT 

to bring a polar bear plunge event to notre dame started the plunge as a way to raise money for the dorm’s signa­ture charity. 
“They decided to have the polar bear plunge and make it a fundraiser for hope initiative, and it worked out really well,” phan said. “They planned it as some­thing that would keep going on because you can see on the poster for the first one it says ‘First annual,’ so they definitely planned it to keep happening.” 
sophomore casey valentine said in addition to helping a good cause, students partici­pate in the event to foster a sense of community. 
“The cause is attractive to a lot of people,” she said.“i think that notre dame is a place with a lot of giving peo­ple and people want to sup­port that kind of cause. 
“we’re small and the com­munity is so strong in badin. all of the freshmen are re­quired to go to hall council, and, last year at least, we hyped it up real big at hall council. ... it’s really that the upperclassmen love the polar bear plunge so much and everybody thinks the hope initiative is such a great cause.” 
phan said participating in the actual plunge is not the only way badin residents get involved with the event be­cause there the event requires much more planning. 
“There’s so many differ­ent ways that we get the girls involved,” she said. “we’re like, ‘here are all the differ­ent ways you can be a part of it,’ and the girls choose what they want to do. it’s not like there’s any forcing.” 
part of the planning that goes into the event includes contacting the fire depart­ment and making sure each student who plunges signs a required waiver, massoud said. 
“whle it’s warm, there are still technically hazards and you would need a lifeguard, and a lifeguard is not going to run into freezing cold water, so we have these firefight­ers out there in their wading suits,” she said. “we started [planning] as soon as we got back to campus [after winter break], we had the request in, because it’s an outdoor event, 

paid adverTisemenT 




to be around.” 
GameDay 
bilas said notre dame is 
conTinued From page 1 
that’s one energy. but you come out and you’re playing north carolina on nation­al Tv on a saturday night, there’s another energy, and that’s the same thing for us at the show,” greenberg said. “i think the ownership of the student body, the participa­tion, you know we’re hope­fully gonna have coach brey out there, and he’s always fun one of the show’s favorite places to broadcast. 
“getting digger [phelps] here always helps, but this has always been a really special place for us, so we’re really lucky to be here. ‘Touchdown Jesus’ is ‘3-point Jesus’ right now,” bilas said. 
greenberg said irish head coach mike brey was not only a friend but also a talented coach. 
“mike brey is incredible, you know, his approach, his energy, his relationship with his players. … he’s so nor­mal, he’s abnormal. he just has such a great outlook on things,” greenberg said. “The essence of who he is is what makes him so special. i mean, just who he is, how can you not want to be around him? it’s infectious. how can you not want to play for mike brey?” 
greenberg said brey’s coaching philosophy con­tributed to notre dame’s victory over louisville in 2013, which was the last time college gameday broadcast before an irish home basket­ball game and the longest game in big east regular sea­son history. 
“The last gameday game against louisville, you know, i see rick pitino losing his mind and you’ve just got mike like, ‘here we go, here we go,’ and that’s what makes him special,” greenberg said. “he’s very competitive; he’s tough, but he’s got a great connection with his players and he very much knows how he wants to play.” 
greenberg said this ap­proach to coaching is impor­tant when it comes to men’s basketball. 
“as a coach, you can’t be a chameleon. This has got to be who you are and how you win, and it’s important to stay committed to that, you know, you’ve got to play to that, recruit to that and you’re gonna empower those guys,” greenberg said. 
as far as the show goes, greenberg said gameday draws an audience because of both content and the peo­ple on it. 
“we have great content, you know, the people that produce our show, they have great vision and imagination so having fun, but sharing inside information, getting inside these conversations,” greenberg said. “we all look at it through a different prism, Jay’s got a different vision of it than i did after coaching for 30 years … and that’s what makes the show good, that we’re all looking at it through different prisms.” 
Jay williams said the great student attendance made for a “fun show” on saturday. 
“The show’s for the Tv audi­ence, really, but what makes it exciting for us is — we don’t see it, we’re not in the liv­ing room, we’re not in the Tv audience — but what makes it so great is the students,” greenberg said. “what makes a great show, besides hope­fully good content, is the en­ergy, passion, the ownership and that’s what makes it re­ally, really good.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 


Mendoza 
conTinued From page 1 
as well as the south bend community. 
John d’arcy, associate professor at the university of delaware, will deliver a presentation titled, “data breach: Failures and Follow­ups,” at the giovanini commons in mendoza on monday at 12:30 p.m. d’arcy is a former assistant profes­sor for mendoza. 
“his expertise is iT secu­rity and his particular topic is data breach,” levey said. “he’s going to talk about things like the Target data breach, going back a few years ago – this was prob­ably the biggest and earli­est exposure of credit card information.” 
larry katzen, a former partner at the accounting firm arthur andersen, will speak about the collapse of the company Tuesday at 
12:30 p.m. at the giovanini commons. 
“ … The popular narra­tive about that company is it started as a firm of technical competence and integrity but somehow lost its way, leading to its demise,” levey said. “although the firm col­lapsed, he’s made it his mis­sion in retirement to tell a competing narrative about the firm and the many people that went down with the ship 
— in his view — wrongfully. 85,000 people lost their jobs, and he’s on something of a mission to tell that story.” 
The keynote speaker for ethics week, susan ochs, will give her presentation wednesday at 4:30 p.m. in the giovanini commons. ochs is a senior fellow at the better banking project and founder of the better banking project and will speak on bettering corporate behavior. 
“her focus is on organiza­tional culture and, in partic­ular, financial institutions, banks, investment banks, wall street,” levey said. “one of the things she’s come upon when looking at banks is this notion of complexity. on wall street, folks seem to value complexity–‘the more complex the better.’ in most other walks of life, we try to keep things simple and there seems to be some sort of bias toward complexity.” 
ethics week closes Thursday night at 7 p.m. 
with a showing of the movie “margin call,” followed by a panel Q-and-a session in the Jordan auditorium in mendoza. The 2011 film fol­lows people at an investment bank during the first twenty-four hour period of a finan­cial crisis. 
“each of the characters deals with this very practi­cal, but also ethical, issue of what they should do,” levey said. 
The panel Q-and-a follow­ing the film will include pro­fessional specialist walter clements, associate pro­fessional specialist Jessica mcmanus warnell and se­nior management consulting major kevin Frost. 
“ethics and ‘asking more of business’ is a hallmark of the mendoza college of business. students have many op­portunities to explore is­sues of ethics in business in and outside the classroom,” mcmanus warnell said in an email. “ethics week is a chance for our notre dame community to come togeth­er and hear from experts in the field on key issues fac­ing business today. These events allow us to hear from and discuss real-world im­plications of ethics in busi­ness—an important part of developing our own capaci­ties to lead and serve.” 
levey said ethics week is just a part of mendoza’s dedication to making its stu­dents aware of ethical issues that arise in business. 
“we certainly have a repu­tation for ethics, and ethics week is just a part of that— it’s part of this ongoing and cumulative effort to expose students to ethical issues and raise their awareness, give them tools and hope it does some good in the long run.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Don’t spoil my meal 
Kelly McGarry 
scene writer 

it’s a strange feeling when you’re hav­ing a meal and realize that the entire conversation is based on the food you’re eating. when the dining hall conversation is good, the food itself doesn’t really come into play. you’re talking about class, work, friends, movies, making plans, basically anything but the same food that we’ve grown so accustomed to and don’t often have a reason to talk about. 
conversation can run low for many rea­sons. you might be eating with someone you don’t really know as well, or maybe are just not in a conversational mood but feel forced to talk. in any case, you talk about what is right in front of you: the food. 
Though always boring, dining hall food banter can be harmless. simple comments like “the beef looks extra green today” or “water came out of the orange juice spout” can serve as an effective stand-in for real conversation over your meal. 
Then there is another class of food-re­lated comments. as you shovel spoonfuls into your mouth: “This is so unhealthy,” “This is going to make me so fat,” “i shouldn’t be eating this” or even “i didn’t eat all day, so i’m getting away with this.” 
being conscious of the food we eat may not be a bad thing, but it doesn’t really help once you’re already eating it. 
This kind of talk is much more likely to make your friends uncomfortable. The person eating a huge bowl of pasta might be embarrassed when you complain that the bread on your sandwich has way too many carbs. 
Talking this way about your own food can’t be mentally healthy either. The con­flict of saying one thing and doing the op­posite can make you feel out of control. 
There’s no use in feeling guilty if you’re going to eat it either way. might as well en­joy that special treat. 
using language like “fat” promotes a negative body image. 
maybe you picked a spinach salad or maybe you picked a cheeseburger. but that’s your prerogative, so own it. whether or not the food on your tray is healthy, let’s keep the talk surrounding it healthy. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

confronting isis 
Gabriel Said Reynolds 
guest columnist 
last Thursday night, i had the pleasure of host­ing a dean’s Fellows event at which reza aslan, author of “Zealot” and “no god but god,” spoke to a packed house in Jordan auditorium on the topic of “islam and isis.” when all the seats were filled, people began to sit on stairways, or on ledges, or in the overflow rooms with video feeds elsewhere in the building. clearly, aslan’s fame preceded him. 
now aslan’s fame is due not only to his books, but also perhaps above all to his exchanges with hosts on Fox news and cnn. in one of these ex­changes aslan, a muslim, defends his scholarly cre­dentials to write a work on the historical Jesus, and in another he accuses the media (and bill maher in particular) of spreading simplistic, hurtful ste­reotypes of islam. Through these appearances aslan has become famous as a critic of anti-islamic bigotry. 
There was some of this sort of criticism last Thursday (he told the audience that he “throws up in his mouth” every time he tries to pronounce the words “donald Trump”), but there was also a different sort of message, a message that might have surprised many of those in the audience. aslan repeated on a number of occasions that it is not enough for muslims — or for that matter, non-muslims — simply to declare that isis (or any other jihadi group) is not islamic, or that their bloodletting has nothing to do with islam. as aslan put it: “if someone says they’re a muslim, they’re a muslim.” 
This was only one of the surprises in aslan’s en­tertaining talk (he also shared his belief that the Qur’an, the bible and the beatles’ abbey road are all inspired), but it does raise an important point. For years now public figures in the west, muslim and non-muslim, have been repeating, almost as a mantra, the message that islam is a religion of peace and that jihad is only a peaceful struggle against sin, or a defensive struggle against aggres­sion. This was the principal message of president obama when he visited a baltimore mosque last week. it was also the message of george w. bush al­most 15 years earlier when he visited a dc mosque after the 9/11 attacks. he declared simply: “That’s not what islam is all about. islam is peace.” 
aslan’s point, of course, is not that islam is violent. his point is that islam is complicated. speaking about the Qur’an, he insisted that it contains passages which seem to promote coexis­tence with unbelievers and passages which seem to promote war against them. in fact, violent jihadi groups do use material in the Qur’an (and the had­ith, or the traditions associated with muhammad) to justify their actions and to inspire other muslims to join them. To see their interpretations in action one need only check out their flashy english language online magazine: dabiq. 
in other words, the material in the Qur’an which is used to justify jihadism can’t be wished away, isis can’t be defeated with the hashtag #unislamicstate, and the appeal of jihadi rhetoric to many can’t be denied. most experts estimate that more than 30,000 foreigners have travelled to iraq and syria to join isis. and the problem is not only isis: extremist movements continue to grow in popularity in the sunni world, from boko haram in northern nigeria to various movements in libya, somalia, afghanistan, pakistan and elsewhere. as aslan pointed out, the victims of these extremist movements are very often other muslims. it should not be forgotten, however, that many of these movements specifically target those whom they la­bel unbelievers or apostates, including christians, yezidis and shi’ite muslims. The only sin of those killed while they were sipping coffee at cafes in a christian neighborhood in Qamishle, syria in december was being christian. The only sin of the yezidi women who have been made into sex slaves was being yezidi. The only sin of those killed while praying at a shi’ite mosque in bangladesh in november was being shi’ite. 
as a catholic university, notre dame should con­stantly look for ways to defend those — christians and others — who are persecuted for their religious identity. in the beautiful vatican ii document “dignitatis humanae” the church declares that all people have a right to religious freedom which “has its foundation in the very dignity of the human person.” one way the university is already doing this is through the dynamic program organized by professor dan philpott, under caesar’s sword (ucs. nd.edu/). we should support his efforts. we who live in the security and comfort of the west should not be silent about the fate of those (christians and others) who live under the shadow of groups such as isis. we must tirelessly advocate for reli­gious freedom everywhere and for everyone — for christians, for muslims and even for ex-muslims who are threatened by the islamic law of apostasy. 
The only effective way to advocate for the cause of religious freedom is together with muslim friends such as reza aslan (who, as he shared with the audience last Thursday, spent part of his life as a christian). groups such as isis cannot be ignored or wished away. They must be confronted, and we must do so together. 
Gabriel Said Reynolds is a professor of theology at Notre Dame. Contact him at reynolds@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Listen up, America 
Matthew Kobunski 
guest columnist 

“we will carpet-bomb them into oblivion. i don’t know if sand can glow in the dark, but we’re going to find out!” – Ted cruz 
“donald J. Trump is calling for a total and com­plete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.” –donaldjtrump.com 
welcome to the republican presidential race, everyone: where sand is going to glow and xe­nophobia runs rampant. This election cycle has been plagued by donald Trump’s bombastic, absurd rhetoric that even moderate candidates have begun to follow in their own diluted way. although i am conservative, i cannot vote for a candidate who says things simply to get people out of their seats. and i speak to conservatives, independents and democrats everywhere when i say this: do not be fooled by militaristic rhetoric and xenophobic speeches. There is a rational an­swer among this haze of ridiculousness and wide range of candidates. 
That answer is John kasich. his credentials are lengthy; his message is positive. The ohio gover­nor is not going to tell you about how he’s going to “bomb the s--- out of [isis]”or how he’s going to tear up the iran deal on day one in office. he’s going to tell you that the federal budget will be balanced, that he’s going to work with all par­ties to solve this country’s issues with rational rather than emotional solutions. his resume in­cludes 10 years on the house budget committee, where kasich was a main architect in balancing the federal budget in the 90s. he’s no stranger to foreign policy, either, with 18 years on the armed services committee. 
and in his more recent role as governor, he has found similar success. during his tenure, he has taken ohio’s $6 billion budget shortage and turned it into an $2 billion surplus. in five and a half years in office, employment under kasich has increased 6.5 percent, as compared to the 4.1 percent increase of his gubernatorial counter­part chris christie. one of the most telling signs of kasich’s common sense politics was his expan­sion of medicaid. conservatives have chastised him about the acceptance of federal money that allowed the expansion, accusing him of not stay­ing true to conservative principles. but here is the bottom line: a governor’s job is to care for the citizens of his or her state. if that means accept­ing federal dollars to create a healthier society, then so be it. kasich contends that the expansion of medicaid isn’t about politics, it’s about a call to help those who are in need. it’s not politics; it’s common sense. That is what we need in the white house. 
but the main point here is not just kasich’s credentials, it’s his message. he is going to bring unity to this divided country. he’s not going to play off of people’s fears like fellow candidates Trump or cruz have — kasich speaks to people’s hopes and dreams. we are a fractured country, and having candidates exacerbate those divi­sions is not going to help the nation. we need John kasich. we need a candidate who preaches unity and problem solving. This country has become severely polarized — best emulated by recent congresses’ lack of progress. if this grid­lock is going to end, we need a president who can work with both sides of the aisle. John kasich is that president. he can break the gridlock and unite this country. unity will not come over­night, but kasich is the man who can facilitate this process. 
gov. kasich’s unifying message has been a ma­jor topic of his debate performances. compare this: 
“we have to come together as a country. and we have to stop all the divisions. … it’s because i’ve been assembling a team of people who want to be involved in something that’s a little bigger than themselves.” – gov. John kasich 
“if i’m our nominee, i will unite this party and we’ll defeat hillary clinton and we will turn this country around once and for all, after seven years of the disaster that is barack obama.” – sen. marco rubio 
now, i concur that they both talk about unity. but notice the context, notice the stark divi­siveness that rubio perpetuates as opposed to kasich’s clear call for unity. The problem with the gop — and democrats themselves are not innocent of this — is the constant need to polar­ize the parties to the point of no return. kasich is fully against this divisive movement. if we want real change, real results and real unity, John kasich is the man for the job. 
so although new hampshire is kasich’s elimi­nation game, i urge voters to take a serious look at the governor. let’s return the republican race back to sanity. let’s stay away from the dema­goguery propagated throughout the race. let’s elect real unity. let’s vote for John kasich. 
Contact Matthew Kobunski at mkobunsk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The tree of liberty 
Devon Chenelle 
The gadfly 

Four centuries after the fall of rome, seafaring raiders from europe’s northern fringes were the scourges of the continent, looting wherever their longships could take them. northern France suf­fered particularly gross depredations, as generations of vikings pillaged the seine and loire watersheds. in 859, while the region’s nominally protective no­bility was distracted by fratricidal infighting, local commoners received word of approaching vikings. The desperate peasants armed themselves and organized a militia that miraculously repelled the marauders. yet their victory was short-lived; unlike norse freeholders, carolingian peasants were for­bidden from bearing arms. The original chronicler wrote “because their association had been made without due consideration, they were easily slain by our more powerful people,” the peasants massacred for daring to defend themselves. 
Though that episode was outrageous, it was one of many events signaling medieval society’s com­plete subjugation of peasants to lord and priest. during the ninth and 10th centuries, once-free French peasants were stripped of their rights to pub­lic assembly, due process of law and to bear arms. eventually the populace was left cowed serfs, their labor thanklessly supporting the knights and clergy that controlled them. it is unsurprising this process to rob the people of their freedoms is highlighted by egregious violation of their right to bear arms, for substantive freedom cannot exist when citizens cannot arm themselves. 
This claim is more controversial than it should be, for it is ancient knowledge that freedom (both private and public) and arms are linked. most obvi­ously, weapons provide for self-defense when our governments are unable to defend us, be it from viking attacks or petty crime. These occasions are rare but always possible; i doubt the korean mer­chants who fortified their stores’ rooftops during the rodney king riots ever expected to use their guns in such a way. 
political representation and arms are also in­separable; as for most of history the only truly free, rights-having peoples were the members of the mili­tary aristocracy, who jealously guarded their right to bear arms. The free citizens of the greek poleis shared a common right and duty to bear arms; even socrates fought in the citizen armies that had once turned back persian despotism. it is a universal mark of slavery to be unarmed. The confederacy refused to arm their human chattel until their war’s desperate final hours, and a thousand years earlier, the saxon ceremony for freeing a slave presented the freedman with weaponry. Though they have since forsaken it, the english swiftly and clearly established subjects’ right to bear arms after avoid­ing tyranny in the glorious revolution of 1688. This knowledge was hardly limited to europeans; the basuto gun war was provoked when the british attempted to confiscate the arms of the basotho chiefs. The conflict nearly drove the british from south africa before they relinquished their claim to the tribal weaponry. it is no coincidence oppres­sive regimes prioritize taking their population’s weapons; aggressive gun control may be the only common policy of all the 20th century’s tin-pot dictators. 
a common objection from gun control advocates mockingly states the jets and tanks of the american army surely tremble in fear at the prospect of facing middle-aged men with hunting rifles. The objection is a gross falsehood. every revolution in the history of mankind has depended upon the soldiery’s will­ingness to shoot on their own people. The French, german and russian revolutions would have all ended swiftly had the monarchs been confident their armies would fire on the people, and the old regimes fell when it became obvious the soldiers would refuse to give them “a whiff of grapeshot.” indeed, the claim is actually opposite the truth, for the pace of popular revolutions is linked with the growth of military technologies. peasant rebellions in the ancient and medieval worlds were dismal and rare affairs, with centuries between failed insur­rections. how unlike the modern world, where no government has felt completely safe from popular malcontent since the bastille fell. similarly, the suc­cess rate of partisan fighters has increased mark­edly. once they had crushed the local elites, past empires could rest assured the common people would fall in line. by contrast, the two greatest powers of the 20th century were repeatedly frus­trated by resistance fighters across the globe, with afghanistan and vietnam now catchwords for impe­rial misery. 
unlike many gun rights advocates, i do not con­test whether lawful gun ownership increases vio­lence, for though i suspect guns’ connection with increased violence is exaggerated, the data sug­gests higher gun ownership rates lead to increased violence. my argument is narrower, claiming only that as a necessary prerequisite of freedom, gun rights must be defended. i finish by borrowing from a source more forceful and lucid than any­thing i might approach. For those who remain un­convinced, i have four words: shall … not … be … infringed. 
Devon Chenelle is a sophomore in Keough Hall. He is a history major with an Italian minor. He can be reached at dchenell@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

yeezy season is approaching. This Thursday, for the first time in 968 days, we will finally have a new kanye west album, his first since 2013’s “yeezus.” This currently unnamed album (previously called “so help me god,” “swish” and “waves” throughout the creative process) will debut dur­ing a special new york Fashion week event that will take place in madison square garden and be streamed in theaters across the globe. 
you see, ye is more than just a rapper these days. he’s a producer, entrepreneur, potential presidential candidate and world-class fashion designer. For Thursday’s event, kanye is going to be dropping yeezy season 3, his latest clothing collaboration with adidas. 
but how did kanye go from the dim lights of the recording studio to the flashing lights of the world’s biggest runways? 
long before kanye became the world-topping fashion mogul he is today, he was a world-topping producer with a great, and under-appreciated, sense of style who was desperately trying to be­come a rapper. back around the turn of the cen­tury, west was crafting massive hits for some of the biggest names in hip-hop, including Jay-Z, ludacris and alicia keys but wasn’t able to secure a recording contract for himself. 
kanye struggled to make the transition from producer to artist in part because of his looks. mr. west did not carry the gangster-rapper style that the industry was looking for at the time, foregoing white t-shirts, massive jeans and gold chains in favor of pink polos, skinny pants and backpacks. 
but, as we all know, things quickly changed for kanye. in 2004, ye released “The college dropout” to critical praise and quickly skyrocketed to be­come one of the biggest names in hip-hop, if not the entire music industry. 
his looks, too, would catch on. hip-hop has greatly transitioned away from the gangster-rapper stereotypes of years past and has diversi­fied to incorporate the new, more emotional, less “tough guy” aesthetics pioneered by kanye west in his clothing and in his music, especially those of “808s and heartbreaks,” which has inspired the likes of drake, The weeknd and so many more. 
but kanye had always wanted to take complete creative control of his looks and break into the high fashion industry. in sept. 2005, west announced that he would release his pastelle clothing line in spring 2006, claiming, “now that i have a grammy under my belt and ‘late registration’ is finished, i am ready to launch my clothing line next spring.” This, unfortunately, did not pan out, and the clothing line was ultimately cancelled in 2009. 
despite his initial rough start, kanye eventually had a number of successful ventures, including collaborations with bape, louis vuitton and giuseppe Zanotti. 
Then in 2009, kanye west made his biggest breakthrough yet into the fashion industry, when he and nike teamed up to release the air yeezy, the shoe brand’s first non-athlete full collabora­tion. The first three colorways sold out almost im­mediately, and kanye quickly started working on the follow-up. 
This resulted in 2011’s highly anticipated air yeezy 2 line, which sold out literally within sec­onds and became the absolute hottest shoe in the market. even now, 2014’s “red october” variant of the shoes regularly sells for upwards of $20,000 on ebay. For its high-profile releases, nike releas­es a limited number of shoes; in the case of the air yeezy 2, only 5,000 pairs were ever made for each colorway. by reducing the supply like this, nike creates an artificial demand that ensures increased media attention and exorbitant resale prices, despite the low cost of production. 
kanye wasn’t satisfied with his nike agree­ment and this business model. specifically citing nike’s alleged refusal to give kanye royalties for his products, west abandoned the shoe manufac­turer and turned to adidas, one of nike’s biggest competitors. 
with adidas, kanye’s ambitions for the clothing industry became even more realized. Together in Feb. 2015, they produced the yeezy boost 750, a controversial high-top sneaker, and premiered the theatrical yeezy season 1, an even more con­troversial fashion line, especially among industry critics. 
yeezy season 1 was very different from the stan­dard fashion runway show, incorporating ele­ments of streetwear and a more casual, dystopian aesthetic. kanye also made his music an integral part of the fashion campaign, tying together the two main aspects of his artistry in ways that no other fashion designer could, with the world pre­miere of “wolves,” a track off of his upcoming al­bum that also employs these darker aspects. The establishment raged against kanye’s sartorial dreams and pioneering attitude, bashing his mut­ed tones, baggy hoodies and shabby chic. 
west ignored the critics and advanced his vi­sion, releasing the yeezy boost 350, a low top sneaker, over the summer and premiering yeezy season 2, a continuation of the themes estab­lished in season 1, at new york Fashion week in september. he also debuted “Fade,” another track from his upcoming album. again, critics were taken aback. cathy horn, one of fashion’s most respected critics, particularly dug into kanye, saying that “this second round of drab, broken-down basics proved he can’t be taken seriously as a designer.” 
but again, kanye kept faith in his concept. west arguably has created the most popular shoe in the world, as the sales of the yeezy boost 350 firmly established kanye’s position as a world-topping fashion icon, with all four different colorway re­leases sold out within minutes of their announce­ments. even more colorways are expected to be released in 2016 to keep up with demand. 
since then, word from kanye regarding his clothing line was relatively silent until January, when yeezy season 3 was finally announced along with the debut date of his seventh solo studio al­bum. unfortunately, kanye’s latest clothing line will most definitely take a backseat to the new al­bum because of the long delay between “yeezus” and this album. 
while we still do not have many details on what to expect, season 3 is definitely worth paying at­tention to, as it is shaping up to be kanye’s most impressive fashion release yet. not only will this be taking place in madison square garden, a much more impressive venue than the two previ­ous seasons, but, according to ads posted online, west is looking for 1,200 extras to model his new outfits, far more than were required for either season 1 or season 2. it has also been rumored that the yeezy boost 550, a mid-top variation on the line, will be previewed at the show. 
more importantly, kanye’s fashion line is mean­ingful because of its influence beyond the harsh criticism of the sartorial industry. west is break­ing the glass ceiling of the fashion world as a black man and as a musician, expanding the scope of this traditionally exclusive industry to previously untapped audiences. 
The great thing about kanye’s fashion is that he isn’t trying to restrict it to high-class individuals. he has worked with adidas to continually release new variations of his shoes so that fans don’t have to pay $20,000 to look good. and while the rest of his official line may be beyond the means of many consumers, kanye’s new look is readily available and achievable by most, incorporating jean jack­ets, hoodies and yoga pants in stylistically simple greys, blacks and beiges that look great with any­thing. ye has further stripped the pretentiousness of an elitist industry by making high fashion com­fortable and more wearable on a daily basis. 
by doing this, kanye west has successfully over­come the exclusivity of the high fashion world. Time and again, kanye has proven that no dream is too big nor any critic too discouraging. he has continuously broken through barrier after barri­er, first by transitioning from producer to hip-hop icon then from hip-hop icon to fashion mogul. as much as he is criticized for his claims that he is a pioneer and a visionary, ye can readily back these claims with his successful yeezy fashion line. 
so you should be hyped for Thursday. This is bound to be a fashion show worth remembering. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 
The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By RILKA NOEL 
scene writer 

netflix has gripped audiences all across america with its riveting 10-part documentary series “making a murderer.” This true account, filmed over the course of 10 years, tells the story of steven avery, a poor wisconsin native who was exonerated on dna evidence after spending almost two de­cades behind bars for a crime he did not commit. he brought a $36 million suit against manitowoc county, wisconsin, and its law enforcement for taking away nearly a quarter of his life. only days after his first deposition however, avery was ar­rested again, this time for the murder of 25-year-old photographer Teresa halbach, who was last seen on the avery property. Just as steven avery seemingly starts down the road to getting his life back togeth­er, the questions of guilt, innocence, justice and corruption resurface throughout this documentary series. 
The first episode of the series focuses on avery’s conviction in 1985 and how the manitowoc county police, despite conflicting evidence and suspects, appeared to be solely concerned with convict­ing avery. when the series picks up in 2003, after proof that avery was not the culprit comes to light, we are left with a clear-cut ending. a simple, quiet man convicted of a violent crime was conclusively proven innocent and sent home after 18 years — a happy ending to a sorry tale. but the show only be­gins there. 
in 2005, when avery is charged yet again, we can’t help but rethink his presumed innocence. The evidence against avery in the murder of Teresa halbach seems astounding: avery’s blood is found in halbach’s car, avery was the last person to see halbach alive, halbach’s car and remains were found in the avery auto-salvage yard, and halbach’s keys were found in the living room in avery’s house. if this does not seem reprehensible enough, avery’s own nephew, 16-year-old brendan dassey, even confesses to law enforcement that he witnessed the crime and helped dispose the body. 
although this seemed like a open and shut trial, series creators laura ricciardi and moira demos reveal how the investigation was rife with several unethical actions performed by the officials sur­rounding avery’s case from lawyers, police officers and even lab technicians. The evidence presented is no longer clear. The series leaves us feeling in­dignant, questioning whether or not one man likely endured not one, but two of the most egregious in­justices imaginable. 
similar to stories like npr’s “serial” or hbo’s “The Jinx,” “making a murderer” is a jarring and ad­dictive crime drama. it is a beautiful but tragic de­piction of the powerful versus the powerless within the american criminal justice system. The series reveals much more than just the standard retelling of a man’s crime — it reflects on something not-so­obviously true about human nature and the human experience. Through media footage and police ma­nipulation, the filmmakers’ argument is convinc­ingly made; ricciardi and demos, in a way, set up a shocking reminder of how the justice system can exploit the poor and marginalized. 
critics of “making a murderer,” like the new yorker, have attacked the series for its bias and de­scribed its lack of perspective as “ … a one-off — a preposterous crusade by a grudge-bearing county sheriff’s department to discredit and imprison a nemesis.” The new yorker also argued that the se­ries leaves no room for differing angles and we are only left with the notion that avery is a good guy and the manitowoc county police department are the bad guys. in other words, the show seeks to vin­dicate the wronged individual rather than “fixing the system that wronged them.” 
despite the overwhelming bias in favor of the de­fendant, “making a murderer” surpasses the stan­dard through its particularly chilling depiction of a man wronged again and again by our criminal justice system. we are witnessing a great injustice unfold before our eyes. This hauntingly appealing documentary series gets stuck in your head and possesses the “binge-worthy” hallmark quality of all great netflix programming. 
Contact Rilka Noel at rnoel@nd.edu 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: your emotions will rise to the surface this year, forcing you to address issues that have been bothering you for some time. put an end to bad habits and make it a point to choose a healthier lifestyle. if you strive to be your best, you will boost your morale and have more energy to do the things you enjoy the most. your numbers are 3, 6, 18, 21, 26, 37, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): make an effort to reconnect with the people you miss or who have inspired you in the past. research subjects of interest and you may learn something that will help you make a difference or change your current direction. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t let emotions or stubbornness set in. you’ll do much better if you cooperate with others. Talk matters through and offer love and affection instead of complaints and arguments. The choice is yours to make. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you’ll get the satisfaction you are looking for if you follow through with your plan and are disciplined about achieving your personal pursuits. don’t let someone with poor habits influence you. make wise choices and you’ll get good results. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): look for something unusual to motivate you to get started on a project that will improve your life and your surroundings. a relationship can make a huge difference to your future. alter your living arrangements and you will prosper. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try something new and different. The people you meet along the way will get you thinking about doing things that you hadn’t considered in the past. with a little discipline, skill and finesse, you will achieve something great. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t hold back. if there is something you want, put pressure on whoever is standing in your way. you can make things happen if you are persistent and offer incentives that are hard to refuse. romance will brighten your day. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): do things with children, friends or your loved one. sticking around home will lead to conflict and leave you stuck doing things you don’t want to do. a good friend will offer a solution to a problem you face. embrace change. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get together with the people who share your concerns and interests. a chance to do something nice for someone in your community will put you in the spotlight and enhance your popularity. romance is in the stars. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stick to simple pleasures and you will avoid going into debt. a well-thought-out change at home will cut your overhead and make your life easier. avoid anyone who is indulgent or takes advantage of your generosity and kindness. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t argue. you have better things to do with your time. getting together with someone who shares your interests will take your mind off any concerns you have. a fitness program will help you feel good about your appearance. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Time is on your side. if you are uncertain, wait until you have proof that you are doing the right thing. an emotional matter will dissipate if left alone. concentrate on something that brings you joy and has the potential to become prosperous. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in something that makes you feel good or that can offer you the experience you need to pursue your own goal. a relationship that means a lot to you should be nurtured. be affectionate and make future plans. 

Birthday Baby: you are intelligent, curious and a humanitarian. you are imaginative and insightful 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city state Zip 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

My tragic tale of past PSG love 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
a few years ago, when i started following soccer for the first time in my life, i did the standard thing. i flipped on premier league coverage, then provided on Fox soccer, every saturday and sunday morning, watched the games and settled on a favorite team. 
That team is aston villa, so i’d rather not talk about that. 
but beyond the standard thing that almost every american soccer fan does, i wanted to do a little more, to dive deeper. soccer on the in­ternational stage is unlike any other sport in the world. where it’s commonly accepted that each of the “big four” sports leagues in the united states are at the pinnacle of profes­sional competition — that’s why we can get away with call­ing teams “world champions” or holding an event titled the world series contested among one canadian and 29 american teams — that’s simply not the case in international soccer. 
ask a handful of people around the globe what the best soccer league in the world is, and you’ll get a handful of responses. nowadays, most would say the premier league, but the two best teams in the world reside in la liga. others, like i did in a previ­ous sports authority, would argue the bundesliga is tops for non-sporting reasons, while Juventus, from italy’s serie a, made the ueFa champions league final last year. 
it’s a wide, unique world, and that’s why when i picked up soccer, i wanted to take it and run with it; i wanted to appreci­ate and experience everything it had to offer. 
while i fell for aston villa first, it wasn’t much later that i fell for a club from France’s ligue 1: paris saint-germain. when i first backed psg, it was off one of the club’s worst sea­sons, one in which they spent the majority of the year fighting to avoid relegation en route to a bottom-half finish. 
Five years ago, psg were an anomaly amongst capital clubs: They always had the potential to be one of europe’s best, but they never were, winning just two ligue 1 titles in their first four decades. 
and i fell in love with the club. it was the perfect mix for someone like me — a team for which a league title would be significant, in a location that was easily-accessible and from a city that i had fallen in love with as a 12-year-old on a fam­ily vacation. 
in the second year i followed psg, that scenario was rapidly unfolding. The capital club was locked in a tight title race with upstart montpellier, who was led by now-arsenal striker olivier giroud, and it was going down to the final week of the season to settle the score. it was gripping, meaningful and drew me into the club more than i had been before. 
The only problem with me backing psg occurred the summer before that season, in which montpellier nicked the parisians to the title. Qatar sports investments took over the club and splashed out the money to buy a title, bringing Zlatan ibrahomivic and Thiago silva to the French capital. The squad proceeded to pull away and take the league champion­ship by a 12-point margin. 
Though the club had won the title, it meant nothing to me. it was bought, not built, and in­credibly anticlimactic. The club has gone on to win two further titles and is well on its way to a third, and i’ve stopped follow­ing psg and ligue 1 entirely. 
For the first time in a couple years sunday, i watched a psg match. ibrahimovic and the rest of the club’s hyper-expen­sive squad, sitting 21 points clear of second-place monaco at the start of the day, were vis­iting their arch-rival, marseille, in France’s fiercest game. 
Five years ago, i would’ve been amped for the occasion. and sunday, i was again. 
i was just pulling for the other side. 
i figured there was no better way to “get back” at psg for ru­ining my love of ligue 1 than by pulling for their eternal, much-maligned rivals. 
au revior, psg. 
bonjour, l’om. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


HOCKEY | nd 2, vermonT 1; nd 3, vermonT 1 
irish sweep weekend series on road against vermont 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
sophomore goaltender cal petersen and his 38 saves saturday night led notre dame’s sweep over vermont this weekend. 
no. 10 notre dame (16-5-7, 12-2-2 hockey east) kicked off the road series with a 2-1 win over vermont at gutterson Fieldhouse and re­sponded the following night with a 3-1 victory. petersen made 38 saves in his 28th­consecutive start this season to solidify the sweep. after the two wins, the irish stand tied with boston college for first in the league standings. 
“cal did a great job,” irish head coach Jeff Jackson said. “it was his first time playing in vermont, and [gutterson Fieldhouse] is a tough build­ing. our defense did a great job not giving up a lot of second shots, but cal was responsible for controlling his rebounds. he’s been con­sistently good over the last couple months. some nights he has to play in order for us to win. 
“vermont was tough [saturday] night, and he was the difference maker.” 
petersen halted all 20 shots vermont put on net in the first two periods saturday night, but the contest took off in the third period. sophomore center Jake evans put the irish up, 2-0, during the 10th minute of the period when he tipped in a shot from the point by sophomore defense-man Jordan gross. 
The catamounts respond­ed with a goal from sopho­more forward anthony petruzzelli who tipped in a teammate’s shot from the point with 6:24 remaining in the period, the only one of vermont’s 18 third period shots that found the net. 
The irish opened the scor­ing in the first period when gross blasted home a shot off a faceoff win by sophomore center connor hurley. senior left wing sam herr snapped a wrist shot into vermont’s empty net late in the third to secure the 3-1 irish victory. 
“our guys have done a good job when games are on the line,” Jackson said. “we’ve had big games that we had with two goal leads and given it up. we scored the second goal and then [vermont] scored with seven minutes left, and for us to hang on and score the emp­ty netter was good for our confidence. 
“we faced a little adver­sary but definitely played our best period [in the third period].” 
notre dame also found success in its penalty-killing unit against vermont, hold­ing the vermont power play scoreless in six chances on saturday night and two on Friday. 
“we’ve done a great job over the past weeks [with our penalty-killing unit],” Jackson said. “we have three and even a fourth pair of for­wards and the defensemen have done a great job in front of cal. 
“since we’ve settled down into pairs we’ve gotten better and better. we minimize the penalties we take, especial­ly in third period in games when they’re close.” 
Friday night, senior centers steven Fogarty and Thomas dipauli each netted a goal for the irish, as they helped notre dame improve to 7-1-1 in road/neutral site hockey east games this season. now the irish look to add to their home record as they return home to host maine next weekend at compton Family ice arena. 
“we need to out work our opponent,” Jackson said. “maine is one of hardest working teams in confer­ence. … They’re playing hard right now. 
“Their goaltender has so­lidified their game, and they have guys that can skate. i hope our guys can take ad­vantage of being at home.” 
notre dame hosts confer­ence opponent maine at the compton Family ice arena. Friday’s series-opening game will start at 6:40 p.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 
my teammates cheering me on.” 
Turner said he attributed his team’s success this weekend to peaking at the right time and increased energy and effort. 
“it’s all a part of our train­ing,” Turner said. “unlike team sports where you have conference games and you have to get a certain record, in track you can basically mess up until championship time because that’s when it really counts, so we gear our training towards peaking at that time. so we knew perfor­mances were gonna come, but what i was bothered by the last few weeks was the effort wasn’t there, and they really stepped up.” 
Turner said after what he saw this weekend he knows “my kids can compete with anyone in the country.” notre dame will be put to the test next weekend when it splits the squad to partici­pate in the iowa state classic in ames, iowa, and spire d-i invitational in geneva, ohio. 
Contact Molly Murhpy at mmurph40@nd.edu 
Track 
conTinued From page 16 
about a dozen personal bests and season bests today, so my women’s team is really coming along at the right time.” 
Turner praised the perfor­mances from seniors molly seidel and margaret bamgbose and graduate student kaila barber in particular. 
seidel broke the school re­cord in the 3,000-meter run in her first action of the indoor track season and first race since winning the ncaa cross country championship nov. 
21. her time of 8:57.13 bested molly huddle’s previous re­cord (9:08.60 at the 2004 meyo invitational) by more than 11 seconds and topped the meyo invitational record by more than a second. 
bamgbose and barber also clocked impressive times that should qualify them for the ncaa indoor championships in march, Turner said. 
“margaret bamgbose in the women’s [400-meter dash], she’s a three-time all­american in that event. her time, 52.52 [seconds] today is going to get her into the meet solid,” Turner said. “and kaila barber in the women’s 60-me­ter hurdles, she had a big [personal record] today, 8.14 [seconds], and that should get her in, that time has gotten into nationals about the last five or six years.” 
Turner also said the irish re­ceived key contributions from new-comers such as freshman anna rohrer, who competed in the mile run, and crossed the line in 4:50.02 to finish 22nd overall. 
“The mile’s not really my main event, so it was really fun to just go out and see what i could do in it, and i ended up running my best time and met my goal, so i was happy over­all,” rohrer said. 
rohrer said her perfor­mance and growth in her young career have been influ­enced by irish veterans such as seidel. 
“my training has been really great since coming to school here and having people to train with, especially molly,” rohrer said. “Just having that solid training behind me and 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
big defensive play, rebounds,” mcgraw said. “ … i really think that madison is one of the best players in the conference.” 
mcgraw said cable wasn’t close to 100 percent before tipoff sunday, and she tweaked her knee on a defensive play in the second quarter of the game, though she returned from the bench less than a minute later. 
“she actually had turf toe and wasn’t really supposed to prac­tice the last couple of days, and we didn’t know how much she’d be able to play,” mcgraw said. “she turned her ankle maybe in the last game, so that was still a little bit sore, so she’s gonna need this week off, and that’s gonna be really good for her.” 
louisville saw its lead rise to as many as nine points in the first half over the irish, who strug­gled to put up shots against the cardinals’ defense and posted just 13 field-goal attempts in the first quarter to louisville’s 20. notre dame also had difficulty boxing the cardinals out on the defensive end, allowing 20 offen­sive rebounds during the game. 
“They were really good de­fensively,” mcgraw said of louisville. “They’re very physi­cal. we were trying to go inside, had some trouble getting the ball in, wanted to shoot a few more 3s, didn’t have a lot of openings. defensively, i thought we had some breakdowns, and we didn’t rebound at all.” 
notre dame trailed by five at halftime, 35-30, but louisville came out strong to begin the third quarter, opening with an 8-4 run that forced mcgraw to call timeout with the score at 43-34. 
after that, however, the irish quickly regrouped and went on a 9-2 run that sparked the come­back, never trailing by more than six points the rest of the way. Following that timeout, notre dame outscored louisville, 32-18. 
“i think it was more about keeping our poise and, ‘here’s what we need to do, and here’s what we’re gonna run on offense, and let’s get some stops and get some rebounds,’” mcgraw said. “i think they got a little more fo­cused on rebounding.” 
cable picked up a double-double with 13 points and 12 re­bounds while freshman guard arike ogunbowale led notre dame with 15 points. sophomore forward brianna Turner (13) and junior guard lindsay allen (12) rounded out the double-figure scorers for the irish. 
sophomore forward myisha hines-allen paced the cardinals with 16 points before fouling out with three minutes to play on the call that led to cable’s two free throws. 
notre dame now has a week off before it returns to the purcell pavilion hardwood for an acc matchup with no. 16 miami (Fla.) next sunday. 
Contact Mary Green at  mgreen8@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame shows growth in big win 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
what a difference time makes. 
seven weeks ago, with a 16-point, second-half lead against indiana at the crossroads classic, notre dame capitulated. The irish were outscored 40-17 over the game’s final 16 minutes that day at indianapolis’ bankers life Fieldhouse, giving away a win that good teams secure. 
For the irish that day, not ev­eryone stepped up. sophomore forward bonzie colson notched a then-career-high 24 points and junior guard v.J. beachem dropped 18, but the rest of notre dame’s squad was missing in action late. 
Fast forward 49 days and you’ll see one thing: a complete­ly different story. 
with fewer than three min­utes to play in the first half saturday, notre dame was going nowhere. like against indiana, not enough bodies showed up. sure, senior forward Zach auguste had 13 of his team’s 22 points, but the irish also trailed by 15. 
but one by one, notre dame’s crew rallied. First it was junior guard demetrius Jackson, who twice got to the line in the fi­nal minutes to bring the irish closer. Then it was colson, who grabbed notre dame’s first five second-half points to keep the game within reach. 
once junior guard steve vasturia buried a 3-pointer — notre dame’s first of the game 
— 5:48 into the second half and 
v.J. beachem knocked down his first field goal of the night a few minutes later, the starting five had joined the fold. 
it let notre dame do the op­posite of what it did seven weeks ago: sin from a near-impossible position rather than lose from a near-unassailable one. 
That indiana loss looked like a backbreaker, and a couple weeks later, when notre dame was simply outplayed by virginia, it looked like the most it could hope for was to sneak into the tournament as a double-digit seed, maybe pull a first-round upset but likely fall out of the field before the end of the first weekend. 
a Jan. 9 home loss to pittsburgh, in which the irish started each half slowly in an 86-82 loss, seemed to further reinforce that. 
but a funny thing happened along the way to mediocrity: guys stepped up, freshman guard rex pflueger emerged and the irish turned what could have been a lost season into one with loads of promise. 
if the win at duke on Jan. 16 didn’t prove this irish team was still capable of matching up with the most talented teams in college basketball, saturday’s one over no. 2 north carolina did. This is a year of great parity in the sport — a three-loss team is almost certain to hold the no. 
1 spot in the ap poll when it’s released monday — and on any given night, notre dame has shown its ability to play with anyone. 
while notre dame’s next two games are tough — a trip to clemson isn’t easy, while no. 19 louisville will still be a tough beat next saturday despite its postseason ban — the final five acc games aren’t too dif­ficult for irish head coach mike brey’s squad, with no. 17 miami (Fla.)’s visit the only game against a team in the top half of the league standings. 
and notre dame’s veteran core? it’s been there before in tough games against the na­tion’s best, where the irish thrived last year, notching two wins against north carolina. 
“it’s one of the things i said before the game that i thought was an advantage for us,” brey said. “we beat ’em twice last year, we were able to come back and dig it out twice in chapel hill and in greensboro in the [acc] championship game. and i just think — the nucleus of guys, there’s a big nucleus in my locker room that did that — and i said, ‘i think we’re gonna be in the same position again fellas; let’s just keep the heat on ‘em.’” 
Just as brey projected, notre dame found itself in the same position saturday as it did last year against the Tar heels. and just as it happened a year ago, the irish pulled through. 
at the end of the day, here’s where we sit: The irish have shown they can play with the nation’s best — remember, they also hold a win over no. 5 iowa 
— when things are clicking. They have an opportunity to go on a roll. 
so i’ll ask: why can’t notre dame do it all over again? 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
immense task ahead of it signif­icantly easier with a strong close to the first half, where 6-for-6 shooting at the free-throw line led the irish to an 8-2 run, clos­ing north carolina’s lead to 39­30 at the interval. 
“we were lucky to be down nine, quite frankly, as bad as we were and as good as carolina was,” irish head coach mike brey said. “so you’re feeling like, ‘okay. nine ain’t bad. i think we’re gonna find a rhythm, an offensive rhythm,’ and we did in the second half.” 
without senior forward Zach auguste, who scored 13 of notre dame’s first 22 points and had seven rebounds in the first 20 minutes, notre dame would have been even further behind when it mounted the comeback. 
“i wanted to be that leader,” auguste said of his first-half per­formance. “i wanted to lead by example. i wanted to show them that you know, even though for some guys, shots aren’t falling, that we could still have that en­ergy, that i could bring that en­ergy for us and kind of pick us up.” 
having trimmed the gap to nine points, brey praised the leadership of his three active captains — Jackson, auguste and junior guard steve vasturia — in the locker room at halftime. 
“halftime was fabulous. They were talking; they were poised,” brey said. 
but when the irish came out in the second half, they still needed to find a couple shots to spark the rally. in a rare oc­currence, notre dame went the whole first half without hitting a 3-pointer — but when vasturia got the irish off the schneid nearly six minutes into the sec­ond half, it got the comeback rolling. 
Jackson scored on a tip-in the next time down to cut north carolina’s lead to 47-44, en­ergizing the purcell pavilion crowd and forcing Tar heels head coach roy williams into a timeout. 
“when you’re playing in front of a great crowd like that, it makes you believe a little bit more,” brey said. “our crowd was fabulous. That was one of the great nights in our building, and you just never were tired, and you believed because you had the crowd behind you.” 
vasturia had a layup on notre dame’s next possession before junior guard v.J. beachem tied the game at 48 with two free throws, and the Tar heels never led by more than one score the rest of the way. 
notre dame took its first lead of the second half at 57-55 when Jackson scored his 1,000th ca­reer point in transition, but Tar heels senior guard marcus paige, who broke his shoot­ing slump with a 5-of-8 perfor­mance from behind the arc, put his team back up 60-57 just over a minute later. 
The teams traded the lead once more before a layup by sophomore forward bonzie colson, who also notched a double-double with 19 points and 10 rebounds, put notre dame ahead for good at 65-64 with 6:34 to play. 
From there, a combination of offensive rebounding — notre dame had 20 — solid free-throw shooting — the irish hit 31 times from the stripe — and turnover-free basketball — brey’s team committed just two — saw the irish home. 
notre dame had its largest lead at 75-70 when auguste laid in a wide-open layup with 2:15 to play. paige had a chance in the closing seconds to tie the game, but he missed his shot, vasturia grabbed a rebound, and the irish held on. 
at the end of the day, the spot was far from being too big for the irish. 
“one thing i’m really proud of, our program, when we’ve been under the bright lights and the big stage, we have flat out delivered,” brey said. “Flat out delivered. gameday again here, and i’m really proud of our program, and i’m so proud of this group. They’ve played in some big ones, and they find a way to really deliver. couldn’t be happier for them.” 
while it was far form a per­fect performance — the irish shot just 34.8 percent from the field and 3-of-16 from 3-point range — Jackson said that’s not required to get wins. 
“Just the will to win, just finding the way,” Jackson said. “we know it doesn’t have to be a perfect game to win it, and like i said before, we were just mentally tough, we made game-winning plays.” 
brey trusted rex pflueger, whose four free throws pro­vided the only bench points the irish got, down the stretch, putting the freshman guard in the firing line late in a crucial game. 
 “it really makes me feel good to see that [brey] trusts me in situations like that because i feel like our relationship’s just going to keep growing throughout my tenure here,” pflueger said. “it’s so awesome to see him trust me and get­ting that experience of playing against north carolina with four minutes to go, i knew i just had to dig down deep and play hard.” 
notre dame has a quick turnaround, jetting off to greenville, south carolina, for a monday night matchup at clemson — and brey said he likes where his team sits right now. 
“To get to seven league wins is big,” brey said. “when you look at our résumé and you’ve got iowa at a neutral court, you’ve got duke in [cameron indoor stadium], which i think will continue to be a good win and you’ve got these guys … your résumé is pretty strong.” 
brey said he wants to see his team build on saturday’s result on monday and avoid a letdown against the Tigers (14­9, 7-4). 
“you’d hope to be able to ride some momentum off of it,” brey said. “we’re gonna have to be ready; they’re really good, and they’re physical. 
“ … we’ve put ourselves in a good position after tonight. let’s not waste it.” 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 






Toughness 
conTinued From page 16 
top-ranked opponent. on saturday, that victory came on the back of 20 offensive rebounds, sheer grit and 38 free throws. 
“i’m really proud of our toughness,” brey said. “i thought our toughness real­ly showed in the second half. … i thought we really dug in and made some great stands. we were a flat-out mess of­fensively in the first half. i thought a lot of that is be­cause carolina was playing great defense. we really got into a good offensive rhythm in the second half and we wanted to keep driving the ball, and getting to the foul line certainly was a key to winning the game.” 
‘Flat-out mess” is certainly 
one way to describe notre 
dame’s first-half offense. 
paid adverTisemenT 
The irish shot just 28.1 per­cent in the game’s first 20 minutes, going 0-for-5 on 3-point shots. by con­trast, the Tar heels shot 48 percent, and senior guard marcus paige, who had been in a shooting slump, found his rhythm to the tune of 4-of-5 from 3-point range. 
while north carolina kept racking up 3-pointers, it also kept racking up fouls, in­cluding five in the first four minutes of the second half. The Tar heel foul trouble continued throughout the game, and the irish reaped the rewards by getting to the free-throw line 38 times. 
notre dame made 31 of its 38 attempts, and the 31 dead-ball points were enough to give the irish a chance. 
Junior guard demetrius Jackson was 9-of-9 from the line, sophomore for­ward bonzie colson was 5-of-5, freshman guard rex pflueger was 4-for-4, and junior guard steve vasturia was 4-for-4. without senior forward Zach auguste, who went 5-for-11, the team had a combined total of 26-for-27. 


prolific free-throw shoot­ing is not something the irish are known for, Jackson said. 
“we even did a decent job from the free-throw line,” Jackson said. “we were at­tacking downhill — we shot 38 free throws so that’s re­ally big for us because we’ve been struggling to get to the line, so we were just strug­gling, going for it.” 
in addition to the 31 points from the charity stripe, the irish comeback was fueled by a renewed defensive en­ergy in the second half. The irish defense forced 13 north carolina turnovers and only gave up the ball twice by comparison. The Tar heel shooting percentage also dropped to 42.9 percent in the second half. 
on the offensive glass, colson stood out, snagging four key offensive boards in the final seven minutes of the game to preserve the irish lead. 
colson credited his strong second-half performance to inspiration he received from his teammates during halftime. 
“in the locker room, my teammates just talking to me saying, ‘you gotta bring that, gotta bring that juice, that edge,’” colson said. “i knew i had to do that in the second half. it was a great win for us we needed this. … you can’t give up on the play, when you crash and rebound you can see where the ball’s going to land and you have to get the loose balls, you have to get the tips, you have to do all the little things to help you win.” 
pflueger factored large at key moments of the game as well, including a defen­sive rebound and a steal in the final 1:30 of the game. pflueger was also tasked with guarding paige for most of the second half and held the standout guard to only nine points on 3-of-7 shooting. 
“i guard a possible lot­tery pick every single day in demetrius Jackson,” pflueger said. “both [Jackson and paige] are great guards, and coming into play­ing against marcus paige, i knew i just had to chase him around make sure every shot’s a tough shot and make sure he misses really.” 
a year ago, the irish beat the Tar heels twice. but that was with Jerian grant and pat connaughton. 
without them, doing the little things has become all the more important. 
Just ask north carolina. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


The observer | MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 80, norTh carolina 76 
Back from the brink 
Irish overcome 

ND does little 15-point deficit, things in come-
upset No. 2 UNC from-behind win 
By ALEX  CARSON By MAREK MAZUREK 
associate sports editor sports writer 
For 17 minutes and 22 sec­

it’s one of the oldest cli­onds saturday night at purcell 
chés in sports: “Take care pavilion, it simply looked like 
of the little things.” but the notre dame wasn’t ready for the 
saying rang true saturday bright lights of primetime bas-
night, when the little things ketball. no. 2 north carolina had 
piled up to give notre dame raced out to a 37-22 win in those 
another big-time, home win opening minutes, pounding the 
as the irish squeaked by no. ball inside to their quartet of big 
2 north carolina, 80-76, in men without much response 
front of a sellout crowd at from the home squad. 
purcell pavilion. The final 22 minutes and 38 
although the ending was seconds, however, were a com-
storybook for notre dame, pletely different story as the irish 
most of the game was any­(16-7, 7-4 acc) rallied, pulled 
thing but as the irish (16-7, close and then hung on for an 80­
7-4 acc) trailed by 15 at one 76, upset win over the Tar heels 
point in the first half and (19-4, 8-2). 
scratched their way back “in my time here, we’ve been 
to a nine-point deficit at through it all,” irish junior guard 
halftime. demetrius Jackson said. “down 
but just as head coach nine, down 18, down 20, so it’s 
mike brey’s squads have never too high and never give up, 
done so often in the past, just always keep fighting.” 
the irish found a way to pull notre dame made the EMMET FARNAN | The Observer out a home win against a 
Sophomore forward Bonzie Colson lays up a shot during Notre Dame’s 80-76 victory over North Carolina see m bball PAGE 14 on Saturday night at Purcell Pavilion. Colson put up 19 points and pulled in 10 rebounds in the game. see Toughness PAGE 15 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 66, louisville 61 
irish complete comeback victory 
BY MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
it wasn’t a buzzer-beating 3 or a half-court miracle heave, but no. 3 notre dame’s last field goal in sunday’s matchup with no. 13 louisville was the one it needed. 
The irish (23-1, 11-0 acc) had finally taken a one-point lead over the cardinals (18-6, 10-1) af­ter trailing for nearly 32 minutes, but the pressure was on to pull out the win and take sole posses­sion of first place in the acc. 
Fortunately for notre dame, madison cable doesn’t get rat­tled too easily. 
The graduate student guard had just hit two free throws, the first to tie the game at 58 and the second to give the irish the 59­58 advantage, and senior guard hannah huffman found cable out on the wing a minute later, where she delivered a 3-point shot to extend the lead to four. 
at that point, notre dame was able to hold off louisville for the final two minutes for a 66-61 road win at the kFc yum! center, bringing the irish win streak to 16 games and snapping the cardinals’ after 15 straight victories. 
“everybody was just thrilled because it’s a huge road win against a great team in front of a big crowd,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “it was just an amazing atmosphere, and we kept our poise, and we found a way to win.” 
The irish closed the game by making six of their final eight shots, while the cardinals con­nected on just two of their last 19 field-goal attempts as their upset bid came to a halt. 
cable’s big shot was one of only two 3-pointers she attempted sunday afternoon, and notre dame as a team yielded an un­characteristically unproductive performance from downtown, going just 2-for-9. 
but, as she did in a close win over duke just six days ago, cable knocked down the key shot from long range when her team most needed it. 
“i think madison is — you know, you saw her at the end of the duke game, big play, 
see w bball PAGE 12 
TRACK & FIELD 
Seidel sets school record at Meyo Invitational 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
notre dame hosted the annual meyo invitational at loftus sports center this weekend, searching for bet­ter results after several meets that left head coach alan Turner disappointed in his squad. 
“i was looking for both my teams, the men and the wom­en, to just raise the level, and they needed to do that be­cause we had top notch com­petition here in almost every event,” Turner said. 
by the end of the weekend, the irish proved they were up to the challenge, Turner said, especially on the women’s side. 
“my women’s team, they really stepped it up. it looks like we should have about four [ncaa] qualifiers based on the times from last year, the times they ran today should get them into nation­als,” Turner said. “we had 
see Track PAGE 11 






