The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 88 | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Debate examines Supreme Court ruling 
In the wake of Obergefell v. Hodges, visiting authors discuss ongoing conflict over same-sex marriage 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
eight months after the land­mark supreme court ruling obergefell v. hodges, which de­cided same-sex couples had the fundamental right to marry, the debate over the decision is still going. as part of this ongo­ing discussion, the Tocqueville program and bridgend spon­sored a debate between stephen macedo, a professor at princeton who defends the ruling, and ryan anderson, a senior re­search fellow at the heritage foundation, on Tuesday night. 
macedo, author of “Just married: same-sex couples, monogamy and the future of marriage,” spoke first in the lincoln-douglas format debate. 
“public opinion on gay rights and same-sex marriage, specifi­cally, have shifted astonishingly over the last 15 years and even more so over the last 20 or 30 years,” he said. “americans in their 50s and older didn’t know any openly gay people when they were younger — i certainly didn’t. but as americans came out of the closet, partly in re­sponse to the aids epidemic, and americans began to come to grips with the fact that homosex­uality is not a lifestyle choice but rather a settled and deep-seeded feature of one’s personality.” 
only a quarter of americans supported same-sex marriage 
see marriage PAGE 3 



lecture explores business ethics 

By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer 
larry katzen discussed the collapse of the accounting company arthur andersen on Tuesday afternoon, as part of the annual ethics week host­ed by the mendoza college of business. katzen, who was a managing partner at the com­pany when it was indicted for obstruction of justice in associa­tion with enron, said the media played a large part in the com­pany’s downfall. 
“everything people learned about the arthur andersen and enron case was what they read in the papers and saw on Tv,” katzen said. “it all said that arthur andersen did a terrible 
see eThics PAGE 3 



‘Pizza, Pop and Politics’ addresses health care 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
mark fox and waldo mikels­carrasco spoke about the issue of health care in the context of american politics and policy at the second installment of “pizza, pop and politics,” a plat­form for political engagement sponsored by ndvotes’16, on Tuesday in geddes hall. 
fox, dean of indiana university-south bend school of medicine, said the rheto­ric surrounding health care throughout the presidential race raises two key points about health care in america. 
“it poses some fundamental questions that i think all of us really ought to engage about,” fox said. “how do we view health care in the context of the community, and what are our obligations to ourselves and our fellow community members? and then, at a different level, what’s the role of government in helping us meet those goals?” 
fox said one problem facing americans are the risks that come with not having health insurance. 
“basically, you have between one and a half times and two and a half times the risk of being diagnosed late with … various types of cancers if you’re unin­sured,” he said. “uninsurance rates matter. They affect health access, they affect outcomes, they affect longevity.” 
fox said the main reason for lack of insurance and problems with health care is many people can’t afford health care rates. 
“politics aside, i think there are some things that we need to be honest about [concerning] american health and health care,” he said. “first is, it’s ex­pensive. we have the most ex­pensive health care without the results to justify it. The poor in the united states have very poor outcomes.” 
The results of the health care system do not justify the amount of money spent on it, because only about 10 percent of premature deaths in the united states are caused by a lack of health care, fox said. 
“if our fundamental ques­tion as a society is how do we improve health … health care plays a very small role in that. and yet, we spend all this mon­ey on health care and perhaps much less on all these other problems,” he said. “we’re the most disproportionate with respect to what we spend on health care versus social servic­es, compared to other industrial countries.” 
mikels-carrasco, director of community and population health development for the michiana health information network, said because the level of frustration with health care is so high, candidates should be focusing on the “triple aim” of health care. 
“The market-driven health care system that we have in the united states doesn’t work re­ally well,” mikels-carrasco said. “The triple aim is improve qual­ity of care, reduce the cost of care and improve patient satis­faction. That third one has never really been part of the equation, but as voters go to the polls, they should be supporting things that are improving what we think we should be getting out of our health care experience.” 
some of the responsibility for improving the health care sys­tem lies with voters, 
see poliTics PAGE 3 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor Business Manager
 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


If your life was a TV show, which show would it be? 

Ian Tembe 

Josh Erickson 
junior 
junior 
fisher hall 
dillon hall 
“‘blue’s clues.’” 
“‘neature walk.’” 

Grace Garry 

Maggie Arriola 
sophomore 
junior 
ryan hall 
badin hall 
“‘grey’s anatomy.’” 
“‘inside amy schumer.’” 

Terence Clines 

Colleen O’Mahoney 
junior 
junior 
duncan hall 
badin hall 
“‘maron.’” 
“‘friends.’” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 


Want your event included here?
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators Lecture: “Raising Letters for Soldiers Women’s Tennis vs. Men’s Basketball vs. Women’s Basketball 
(574) 631-8839 

America’s Pay” LaFortuneStudent Pittsburgh Louisville vs. Miami (Fla.) Andrews Auditorium Center Eck Tennis Pavillion Purcell Pavilion Purcell Pavilion 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 11 a.m.-2 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-7 p.m. 1 p.m.-3 p.m. 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre Focuses on low-and-Send a St. Patrick’s Irish take on the The Irish take on the Play4KAY game for dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
middle income finance. Day card to soldiers. Panthers. Cardinals. women’s cancers. 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. Bites and Brews with Guided Mindfulness Pink Zone Spin-A-Men’s Rowing Erg-A-Bengal Bouts The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Bell’s Brewery Meditation Thon Thon Preliminaries 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant Morris Inn Snite Museum of Art Rockne Memorial Joyce Center Joyce Center 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 9 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-4:45 p.m. 12 p.m.-12 a.m. All Day 3 p.m.-8 p.m. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
$15 for beer tasting Relax and recharge Cycling for breast Donate to pancreatic The 86th annual men’s 
necessarily those of The observer. viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free and snacks. through meditation. cancer research. cancer research. boxing tournament. 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

author links dostoevsky to politics 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. 
what he thinks the real is behind the ideal,” “he predicts a second catholic reforma­
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER semester. 
she said. tion for the west, which he realizes po-
The observer is published at: news writer 024 south dining hall 
blake began with a discussion of what etically in the grand inquisitor, since ivan 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
elizabeth blake, assistant professor dostoevsky believed to be the ideals of the karamazov’s ethic that an egoism permit­
posTmasTer send address corrections to: 

of russian at saint louis university and catholic church. dostoevsky, according ting everything must be allowed for the
The observer p.o. box 779 

author of “dostoevsky and the catholic to blake, took great issue with the chivalry man who does not believe resembles the
024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 

underground,” explored how the inter-which the catholic church supposedly image of the Jesuits ... as those who allow
The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

play between religion and politics helps to endorsed. for the permissibility of violence against guide a nation’s decisions Tuesday night “chivalry, for dostoevsky, is one of the those of another creed,” she said. through the lens of russian author fyodor most deceptive ideals propagated by the blake said she believes a large part of dostoevsky’s views on the catholic church catholic church,” she said. “knighthood dostoevsky’s criticism of catholics and de­and its influence on the politics of the west. ... rests on a paradoxical chivalric tradi-fense of russian orthodoxy comes from a 

according to blake, dostoevsky adopt-tion because the privileged position of the feeling that, “russia had not been accept-
News Sports 

katie galioto kit loughran ed a wholly negative view of the roman knight, who vowed to protect the power-ed on a equal footing,” when being com­andrea vale ben padanilam 
catholic church, especially the “military less, relied upon a feudal order which relied pared with the western powers. This led 
alex winegar victoria llorens 
catholicism” of the Jesuits, because he upon the exploitation of serf labor.” dostoevsky, according to blake, to become 
Graphics Scene 

found the ideas threatening to russia. blake then moved on to discussion of a fervent nationalist, supportive of the im­
lucy du kelly mcgarry 
“[dostoevsky believed] this use of what dostoevsky believed to be the “real” perial tendency to demand assimilation
Photo Viewpoint 

militant catholicism ... aimed to expand goals of the catholic church. from others.
caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 
catholic monarchs’ sphere of influence “dostoevsky maintains that great ideas “[dostoevsky] robs nations of their own at the expense of orthodox beliefs,” blake inspire revolutionaries and shape the his-traditions,” she said. said. tory of nations,” she said. “ ... he believes dostoevsky’s belief in the inferiority
Corrections 

blake said dostoevsky sought to coun-that catholicism does not merely represent of catholicism and nationalistic sympa-
The observer regards itself as ter the political and religious influence of a metaphysical ideal but an international thies led him to portray many flat char-a professional publication and 
catholicism by exposing the moral bank-conspiracy armed with papal Jesuit troops acters who fit stereotypes, blake said. he strives for the highest standards 
ruptcy of roman ideas. dostoevsky’s criti-and a political program — the roman idea especially targeted polish people, who 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
cism of the catholic church can be divided worldwide.” were both catholic and revolting against
however, recognize that we will make 
into two parts, she said. dostoevsky, according to blake, de-russian rule during dostoevsky’s lifetime. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
“i’ve divided ... what [dostoevsky] con-scribed this view in the parable of the
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so siders ideal about catholicism, meaning grand inquisitor in his novel “The brothers Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at
we can correct our error. the ideal that catholicism creates, and karamazov.” lmasinmo@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | The observer 

Ethics 
conTinued from page 1 
auditing job, and this was re­sponsible for the demise of the company.” 
katzen disputed this por­trayal, arguing there was no evidence arthur andersen did anything wrong during the au­diting process. 
as an accounting firm for enron, arthur andersen had millions of documents subpoe­naed after enron was exposed for accounting fraud, katzen said. however, he challenged the accusation that arthur andersen shredded important documents prior to the subpoena. 
“it’s a requirement that before you get an indictment, you must destroy all documents that are irrelevant to the auditors,” he said. 
furthermore, katzen said enron’s fraud was mainly related to special purpose entities, while another accounting firm was responsible for auditing. katzen said arthur anderson, through­out his 35 years at the compa­ny, maintained a high ethical standard. 
“The reason why i joined arthur andersen was their in­tegrity,” he said. “These people walked away from clients that they felt were not operating un­der conservative accounting principles.” 
katzen said the effects of the scandal were devastating. 

within 90 days of the indict­ment, arthur andersen had lost its right to audit and was out of business. 
“eighty-five thousand people lost their jobs because of arthur andersen’s association with enron,” he said. 
although katzen said he was about to retire right before the scandal hit, he stayed on for longer in order to help other em­ployees find new jobs, he said. 
“i can proudly say that almost all 85,000 people have landed on their feet well and have done great things in their new organi­zations,” he said. 
katzen said he learned from this experience “to do the right thing, no matter what the politi­cal ramifications might be.” in addition, katzen said his deci­sion to delay retirement helped him learn the sacrifice that is often necessary for the greater good of the company. 
“you will go through situations where you have to make tough decisions and must make per­sonal sacrifices,” he said. 
katzen also said his desire for new knowledge and strategies helped him to have a long and accomplished career. up until his retirement, he regularly at­tended new training sessions and workshops, he said. 
“The only way you can stay ahead of this game throughout your entire career is to continu­ally learn new things,” he said. “don’t get soft and lean on your past. you have to always rise to the top.” 
finally, katzen said a com­pany must have a culture that values integrity in order to be successful. 
“The common culture is the glue that holds an organization together,” katzen said. 
ethics week at the mendoza college of business will continue tomorrow with the keynote ad­dress, to be delivered by susan ochs, a senior fellow and found­er of the better banking project. The lecture, titled 
“managing mindset: The key to better corporate behavior,” will take place at giovanini commons at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 
Marriage 
conTinued from page 1 
20 years ago, but today, around two-thirds of the population is in favor of it, according to macedo. 
There is a difference, macedo said, between the sacrament of marriage and civil marriage and how they combine to form the public meaning of marriage. 
“people want to get married, not just because it’s a matter of private commitment to another person, but because they want it to be recognized that they’ve entered into this public commit­ment,” he said. “The law facili­tates this recognition. you wear a ring — it’s very public. it’s ex­tremely private and very public to enter this sort of commitment, and it makes the understanding known in society.” 
according to macedo, the opposing view of same-sex marriage is centered on the pos­sibility of children, disqualifying same-sex marriage. 
while he said he acknowl­edged some legitimate points in anderson’s argument against same-sex marriage, macedo said these concerns are not enough to justify using them as the basis for law. 
“i think the question is wheth­er it’s appropriate in a religiously diverse society to make one par­ticular ideal of marriage — and i think it’s a very respectable ideal of marriage — the basis for the law of marriage so that it ap­plies to everyone within this reli­giously diverse society,” he said. 
paid adverTisemenT 

in anderson’s response, he said his opposition to same-sex mar­riage is based on the unknown consequences it could have on the american family and the deterioration of marriage in the united states. according to him, more than half of the children in america’s two largest minor­ity groups — latino and african american — are born out of wed­lock, another sign of a deteriorat­ing state. 
“gays and lesbians are not to blame for the breakdown of the american family,” he said. “They’re not to blame for the increase of nonmarital child­bearing — they’re not the ones creating children outside of mar­riage. i do want to suggest that the vision of marriage and hu­man sexuality that is to blame, a liberal ideology, is the vision of marriage that has largely fu­eled the public discourse for the past decade, and now that it’s en­shrined in law, it will further the deterioration of marriage in the united states.” 
This “vision of marriage,” anderson said, has convinced people that love and consent be­tween adults are enough to justify a marriage. 
“professor macedo said it was principles of ‘liberty, equal­ity and justice’ that propelled the supreme court’s decision, and he thinks it rightly was decided to redefine marriage in all 50 states and to say the constitution requires it,” he said. “i don’t think there’s anything in the constitution that tells us what sort of consenting adult relation­ship is a marital relationship.” 
anderson said, using macedo’s own logic, the legalization of non-monogamous marriages should also be covered — macedo is not in favor of legalizing these types of marriages. 
“This is where i don’t think we’ve heard enough from same-sex proponents, about why they’d limit it to just two people in a committed relationship. increasingly, if you look at the academic and popular literature, they’re arguing that there is no reason to limit it as such. … all i’m going to say about this [non­monogamous marriages] is that it directly undercuts the state being in the marriage business in the first place.” 
The government is only in­volved in the marriage business because of the consequences marriages and families have on american society, anderson said. 
“The state’s not in the mar­riage business because it’s a sucker for your love life,” he said. “The state’s not in the marriage business because it’s concerned about the romance of consenting adults. The state’s in the marriage business because sexual unions between men and women can result in children, and children deserve mothers and fathers. governments try to get men and women to commit permanently and exclusively to one another and fulfill their obligations to their kids. when this doesn’t hap­pen, social costs run high.” 
anderson also said the legal­ization of same-sex marriage has had consequences for religious freedom, specifically for those whose faith doesn’t support it. 
“There are a number of stories of bakers, florists, photographers 
— people of faith who have no problem serving gays and lesbi­ans, no problem employing gays and lesbians, but they do have a problem celebrating a same-sex wedding because they believe that would be using their god-given artistic gifts and talents for something against their beliefs — they have been fined in both their professional and personal live,” he said. 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 


Politics 
conTinued from page 1 
mikels-carrasco said. 
“if you’re going to vote for a candidate, make sure that their party has some kind of plat­form that accounts for health,” he said. “There [are] problems with [the affordable care act]. it could use a lot of reworking, but saying we’re just going to get rid of it and we’re not going to replace it with anything, that’s problematic.” 
mikels-carrasco said because poor health in childhood leads to an increased possibility of prob­lems later in life, he believes the fo­cus should turn toward ensuring childhood health improves. 
“i think the point is that we have to look at … head-start pro­grams that provide education for parents and children and teaches them how to be well-resourced individuals, because if they’re better, they’ll be healthier,” he said. “research has shown that they’ll have better educational outcomes, healthy children, and they’ll be better citizens in life. They’ll have better outcomes at lower cost to society in general, in a health care system that we can all manage, that we can all participate in and that we can all afford.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

it’s really no wonder the mash-ups on the kanye wes anderson Tumblr fit together so naturally. despite the ap­parent diametrical stylistic opposition between the two, both musician kanye west and filmmaker wes anderson cre­ate their individual works in the post-postmodern mindset of new sincerity. eschewing the cynicism and irony of the previous generation, the two em­brace the earnestness of a bygone era 
— think of the supreme sincerity of dickensian characters such as oliver Twist and Tiny Tim. 
when so many of their peers use the trendy antithetical lenses of de­tached irony and hollow parody to dis­tance themselves from their material, anderson and west actively — increas­ingly so throughout their careers — seek to inhabit their projects, leaving parts of themselves within, making it impossi­ble to remove their identities from their work. as a result, you get film charac­ters like the disheveled, sunglasses-clad richie Tenenbaum espousing prototyp­ical kanye west lines like “sunglasses and advil / last night was mad real,” without the image feeling like much of a stretch in either direction. 
kanye west began his music career when the concept of new sincerity had already been present in film, literature and even music for close to 20 years, but the mode had yet to transform hip-hop’s predominately gansta rap trappings of decades prior. yes, songs like nwa’s 1988 hit “express yourself” pushed for truth in rap storytelling years be­fore west wrote a rhyme, but “express yourself” was couched in a tremendous dose of hypocrisy — a proverbial diss track that committed the same fallacies it attempted to call out. 
not until west’s emergence and rise in popularity had anything like his melodramatic introspection and un­hip, unselfconscious conviction found its way so holistically into rap. from his earliest production efforts (the uplift­ing soul samples and vocals on Talib kweli’s heartbreakingly honest “get by”) and debut singles (the raw tear-jerking, jaw-wired-shut performance on “Through the wire”) to his most re­cent artistic endeavors (the cheesy, low budget “bound 2” video and his ragged­ly earnest fashion line), west has forged a sub-genre and influenced a new wave of rap artists, becoming the de facto fa­ther of rap’s new sincerity. 
since his beginnings in exploring sen­timental emotions through such black and american conventions such as re­ligion and family, west’s inspirational breadth can be traced in conjunction with his many slight artistic shifts ev­ery two albums or so, the first of which coming in the form of his sub-genre­establishing “The college dropout” and “late registration.” The reverence for childhood purity and confession on both releases struck chords with fel­low chicago natives lupe fiasco and chance the rapper. 
both lupe and chance embrace similar themes of spirituality and un­abashedly pine for the innocence of childhood in the face of hood violence and drug addiction. on fiasco’s latest album, he paints a rich collage of his adolescent memories over soul-indebt­ed production with “murals,” while ar­guing for peace throughout. 
likewise, chance the rapper’s own childishness is a key component to his artistic identity. along with the other members of his childhood­friends-turned-musicians collective #savemoney, chance takes heavily from the gospel sounds and over-earnestness of west’s first two studio albums. like west on “The college dropout” opener “we don’t care,” chance raps for the kids, a younger generation that’s easier to shape for the future than the broken men of the present are to repair. 
with his eternally pubescent sing­ing voice, chance has sung odes to his ma, his newborn baby and to his grandma for taking him to church. he has extravagantly, gorgeously covered the theme song of one of his favorite childhood cartoons and turned it into an anthem for his equally young fan base, and he’s even produced his own version of west’s “family business.” 
after two albums of unabashed cel­ebration and honest scrutiny of his surroundings, west turned inward and carved out an entirely new breed of de­scendants. in the stadium-sized pop anthems of “graduation,” west showed flickers of self-reflection and braggado­cio that completely manifested them­selves in “808s and heartbreak.” The biggest, most obvious offspring pro­duced by these two records are drake and kid cudi. drake, the king of emo­tional rap tinged with, most recently, boasts and self-celebration; kid cudi, the most insular, aggro-emotional artist to emerge from the presence of kanye. 
The most popular hits of both rappers’ early career combined the pre-kanye oppositional elements of grand pop pro­ductions and extremely intimate con­fessions into something still ultimately labeled “rap.” There has perhaps been no more personally exposing line in rap than drake’s “The one that i needed was courtney from hooters on peachtree” off his sub-genre-cementing “nothing was the same” from 2013 — an album whose top hit was a straightforward pop ballad, and yet on which drake nonetheless boasted, “who else mak­ing rap albums, doing numbers like it’s pop?” 
but while drake takes far more from kanye’s ego, kid cudi tends to retreat further towards the id. cudi hides noth­ing about his feelings; he’s often criti­cized for being too sincere, joked about for being too emotional, chastised for pursuing what he wants to pursue no matter the public response — including forgoing a follow-up to his successful “man on the moon” projects in order to make guitar-led rock albums. his frac­tured, isolated aesthetic nevertheless works to capture his moodiness per­haps better than any of his writing can. he cares deeply, and he’s misunder­stood: what’s more new sincerity than that? not to mention he recently acted as co-host and bandleader for a late-night television show whose major in­fluence is “The pee-wee herman show.” 
yet, as west’s ambitions continue to grow through his career, he has in­spired not only more expansive but also more polarizing brands of musical successors. The pristine decadence of “my beautiful dark Twisted fantasy” and the overblown extravagance of “yeezus” have paved the way for acts like young Thug, future and especially Travi$ scott. These artists have taken the ornateness of west’s most recent albums and turned its elements into over-the-top, post-kanye soundscapes taking as much from “graduation” as “yeezus.” after all, auto-tune would not be employed in the twisting, encom­passing way it is now without T-pain’s vocals on the hook of “good life.” most emblematic of this style is scott’s 2015 rap western “rodeo.” 
like west — and cudi — scott’s pro­duction establishes dense moods on each song that fit together like a sprawl­ing tapestry across the highly concep­tual album. and while, also like cudi, his lyrics often leave something to be desired in the way of depth, he often ex­presses himself in the same manner as west, if tougher to swallow. 
There are also the rappers that have cropped up more as a result of kanye west’s career as a whole than as a result of any one phase in particular. These artists watched as west opened up non­traditional avenues in rap, allowing them to explore themselves through a genre that was at one time not as ac­cessible for introspection of this nature. The crushingly introverted, extremely personal “doris” and “i don’t like s---, i don’t go outside” by earl sweatshirt borrow more thematically than aurally from west. still, the heartbreak that dominates “808s and heartbreak” and “my beautiful dark Twisted fantasy” set up earl to be able to write two al­bums as emotionally affecting as he did and have an audience for it. 
similarly, childish gambino, whose narrative “camp” and “because the internet” are indebted to west as main­stream-rap/alternative-rap bridge pio­neer, drew his clearest parallels to west during a series of late-night instagram confessional posts leading up to the release of his latest album. The stunt, captured via photos of handwritten let­ters on hotel stationary, revealed just how vulnerable and human even stars of gambino and west’s stature can feel, wiping away the façade of stardom and embracing true human troubles. 
in a 1993 essay on the future of enter­tainment titled “e unibus pluram,” one­time rap historian david foster wallace predicted a movement that read an aw­ful lot like new sincerity. 
“The next real literary ‘rebels’ in this country might well emerge as some weird bunch of anti-rebels, born oglers who dare somehow to back away from ironic watching, who have the childish gall actually to endorse and instantiate single-entendre principles,” wallace wrote. “ … The new rebels might be art­ists willing to risk the yawn, the rolled eyes, the cool smile, the nudged ribs, the parody of gifted ironists, the ‘oh, how banal.’ To risk accusations of sentimen­tality, melodrama. of over-credulity. of softness. of willingness to be suckered by a world of lurkers and starers who fear gaze and ridicule above imprison­ment without law.” 
if this description doesn’t bluntly re­call kanye west and the wave of rappers he has inspired since mainstreaming rap’s new sincerity movement, you may have been too busy rolling your eyes at him to notice. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                  mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
LUCY DU | The Observer 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Time slips away 
Selena Ponio 
news writer 

london spring, Toledo fall, dublin fall. combinations of foreign cities and sea­sons that may confuse the typical college student but hold a lot of meaning for notre dame sophomores. 
at a school where a good portion of stu­dents study abroad, sophomores are thrown into the process early to compete for a spot in one of these coveted programs. This year, my friends and i found out our study abroad decisions at the most inopportune time — 12 a.m. on a friday night. 
well, for me it wasn’t exactly 12 a.m. i couldn’t muster up the courage to actually open my email until about two hours later, when finally, i saw it: Toledo fall. 
The next five minutes was a hodgepodge of conflicting emotions. initially, i was hit with a wave of relief and excitement. i got it, i thought, thank god. i’m going to spain. Then, i experienced panic and disbelief at how little time i suddenly felt i had knowing i would be in a completely different country in a matter of months. 
my heart flipped realizing this would be my last semester at notre dame until 2017. it killed me when i realized i would not see my friend, who was currently studying abroad and would be going abroad again next spring, until our senior year. lastly, i grew anxious realizing i would not be able to experience the inexplicable combination of fatigue and bliss after a successful foot­ball saturday next fall. 
by knowing mine and everyone else’s study abroad plans, i could envision the fu­ture more clearly, and i did not particularly like it. i suddenly had plans of reuniting with friends and football games senior year, when before, senior year felt like a myth or an urban legend — something you hear about from afar but have no tangible evi­dence that makes it personally concrete. 
i felt as though time was escaping me, and i was desperately trying to dig my heels further into the ground in an effort to slow it down. i just sat for a while, head spin­ning and heart racing, allowing the bouts of panic, nervousness and excitement whoosh through me. 
To be completely honest, i’m still at this stage right now. i think the reality of it will probably hit me in stages, but as of now, the word “spain” still feels foreign on my tongue. don’t get me wrong; i am beyond excited and ready to embark on this new experience and feel incredibly fortunate for the chance to study a language and culture i love. 
however, is it weird that in the midst of this excitement for where i’m going, i’m al­ready a little homesick for where i am right now? maybe so, but at the end of the day i guess there are worse things than trading touchdown pushups and burgers for coun­try-hopping and churros con chocolate. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

i’m in chicago this week for some graduate acting auditions, and i decided to use my free time, as any good notre dame student is wont to do, exploring the various museums the city has to offer. 
my first stop was to see the art institute, as i had been there my freshman year to see a lichtenstein exhibit that had been absolutely gorgeous. i walked up to the desk, asked the woman for a student discount, and she replied the cost was $19. 
$19? my immediate thought was that she must be joking. how on earth do they expect to bring up cultur­ally aware children if they require people to pay such a ridiculous fee? 
i’m a college student. i’m not made of money. but ac­cording to my british principles, i simply paid the ad­mission fee because it would be far more embarrassing not to and walked away muttering to myself about how most of the museums in england are free and how even in new york most of them are pay-as-you-will. fuming, i stayed until the bitter end, sitting at the singer-sargent exhibit for at least an hour to use up my time. 
why would chicago have such an expensive museum fee? why would any city have such an expensive mu­seum fee? 
firstly, it deters people from going to see museums. someone not as well off is not going to pay that price, and they shouldn’t have to. This is part of culture, it’s a part of our shared history. frankly, you shouldn’t have to pay anything. but the chicago museums appear to be part of a capitalist scheme to restrict the art world to a few small elite, and i cannot say i am a fan. 
now i’m not saying new york doesn’t have its prob­lems. at the met, signs are so misleading most people will pay the $25 fee because no one likes to go against the norm, especially a norm printed on a large sign by the check-in desk. but at least there is the option to pay less when you research it. chicago seems to not want to put its museum prices on its websites, probably to sneakily trick unsuspecting tourists like myself. 
secondly, there are plenty of cities with free muse­ums. i spent a semester in london, where i could walk into the national gallery every day at lunch if i wanted to and wander the halls filled with classic paintings. i could do homework next to a monet for free. for some reason, american cities seem keen to deny that exciting prospect to people because of money. 
now this brief rant might seem ridiculous to some. for one, admissions fees are meant to pay for the up­keep of the museum, and secondly, how else is the museum going to make any money? but the first com­plaint is actually incorrect. most of the money museums make is actually from donors and corporate sponsors. admissions make an absolutely negligible dent on the costs of a museum’s upkeep and acquisition of new paintings. 
To the second point, why doesn’t the state do some­thing useful for once and fund cultural centers? yeah i get it, socialism is a scary prospect, and once we give into one aspect of it, then it’s just a slippery slope to the soviet union. but i frankly don’t mind paying taxes to walk around ancient fossils and andy warhols. in fact, that seems a rather good use of my money. 
why deny a whole group of people that cannot afford to go see these things the opportunity to do so? 
i did go through the websites and discovered people who live in illinois can get discounts or free admission to certain exhibits or museums most of the time, which is actually pretty good, so i applaud chicago for that. and dupe the tourists all you want i suppose. 
but this message is as much for chicago as it is for the rest of the major cities in america. stop making it diffi­cult for people to experience history, to stand next to the ancient world, to experience a world outside of them­selves for once. 
whatever your arguments about museums, as long as we have them, please make them public. 
Kitty Baker is a senior majoring in the Program of  Liberal Studies and film, television and theatre. She is a proud Cavanaughty. Contact her at cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
‘The force behind the message’ 
dear students, 
The past two weeks of campaigning have been inspir­ing and humbling, so we would like to start by saying thank you. Thank you to all the students who have taken the time to read our platform, talk about our shared vi­sion for this university and vote today for student body president and vice president. 
years of experience and dedication from our ticket 
— whether it be our unique experiences in student gov­ernment, campus employment or student clubs — have resulted in a five pillar platform, modeled after the five pillars of holy cross, that represents the voice of the stu­dents and their ideas for the future of our campus. The following are the pillars. 
community engagement: we will connect the many vibrant communities of south bend and notre dame to provide both with the resources to strengthen existing bonds and build lasting relationships. 
sexual assault prevention: we have coordinated with survivors and activists alike to build a comprehensive group of initiatives building on transparency and real preventative action. 
diversity and inclusion: we focus on giving every stu­dent a voice on campus through the promotion of stu­dent-led initiatives, clubs/groups and forums that push for a more open and inclusive campus. 
sustainability: we will pair the environmental work of notre dame students with the south bend office of sustainability to address the shared responsibility of sustainability in our community and beyond. 
health and wellness: we strive to create an environ­ment that is built on awareness, respect, understanding and immediate, personal care for the many mental and physical health issues that our students face every day. 
Together, we have built a comprehensive policy plan that is both tangible and effective in bringing necessary resources to students and responding to their needs. we will follow through on the commitments we have made to the student body to make notre dame an innova­tive and national leader in every pillar of our platform. we will accomplish our goals through the courage to lead, the perseverance to connect an d the conviction to serve. 
Thank you, notre dame, for the opportunity to cam­paign, the students we have met, the passionate ideas we have heard and the friends we have made along the way. in the first few nights of campaigning, corey shared a private message with our team after a long night of pol­icy planning and visiting dorms: “how relevant is this bible verse today? ‘as a prisoner for the lord, then, i urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. be completely humble and gentle; be patient, bearing with one another in love.’ keep y’all’s heads up!” 
The force behind the message is one we wish to carry into student government. please vote for robinson-blais today. we will be available all day to speak with students and answer your questions. 
god bless and go irish. 
Corey Robinson 

student body presidential candidate 
Becca Blais 

student body vice presidential candidate 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Examining 1920s xenophobia with ‘Millie’ 
beginning Thursday, the pasquerilla east musical company (pemco) will raise the cur­tain on its mainstage production, “Thoroughly modern millie,” a show about a small-town girl who arrives in 1920s new york with big dreams of living like a modern woman. 
although the production team and cast has worked to make our “Thoroughly modern millie” go beyond clichés, it is also important to recog­nize the role that stock characters — characters whose essence stems from cultural or social ste­reotypes — play in millie’s journey. 
The flapper girl stands out as the most recog­nized trope in “millie” and the one most associ­ated with this show, but other tropes are just as crucial. upon arriving in the city, millie meets other aspiring young professionals who stay at a women’s residence run by mrs. meers, a middle-aged chinese woman, as well as ching ho and bun foo, her bellhops who recently immigrated from china. 
unbeknownst to millie and her friends, mrs. meers is actually a washed-up actor, david crumpler, masquerading as a woman and black­mailing ching ho and bun foo into working for him. The plot seems absurd but, in fact, it aligns with historically accurate attitudes and fears of the 1920s. 
The united states in the 1920s was not only a modern and romanticized place. for chinese immigrants, america was simultaneously a country of widespread employment opportu­nity and legalized discrimination. beginning with the chinese exclusion act of 1882, chinese immigrants (like ching ho and bun foo) and chinese-americans were routinely marginal­ized and forced into terrible work situations with the hope that an employer-sponsor (like david crumpler/mrs. meers) could bring their families to america. 
as a history major and director of the show, sophomore katie mackin could not ignore this background when bringing ching ho and bun foo to life. They are determined, loving and hard-working, not malicious, in their actions. That they are chinese only serves to illustrate the american xenophobia of the 1920s. 
by contrast, david crumpler is the only charac­ter choosing to play a stereotype in the show. he tries to be a “dragon lady,” a domineering, older asian woman, but fails horribly and offensively. we as an audience laugh at him, as he offers a satirical portrait of the very xenophobia that per­meated u.s. society in the 1920s. 
To further emphasize this role-playing, we chose to cast a male to pose as mrs. meers — the script allows for either a “david crumpler” or a “daisy crumpler” to fill the part. we felt that choosing a male character to masquerade as a woman strengthened the fact that this character is highly aware of the stereotype he portrays. This awareness helps david characterize his mrs. meers and further intimidate his employees. he also teaches the audience about the legally tolerated and even enforced discrimination of the time, an often-forgotten aspect of american history. 
we hope this approach creates some laughs during the show, but we also see this as a chance to teach a little about our own country’s history. racial and ethnic discrimination, as well as dis­crimination of immigrants, still very much per­sist today, and we welcome conversation about those topics through “millie.” 
To that end, the pemco producers and direc­tor of “millie” invite you to join us for a panel discussion, “This is 1922: stereotypes and satire in Theatre,” immediately following the Thursday performance in washington hall. 
Tickets to the show are on sale now in the lafortune box office, and we encourage every­one to see the show before attending the panel. The panelists will include Jason ruiz, associate professor of american studies, lionel Jensen, associate professor of east asian languages and cultures, and cecilia lucero, assistant profes­sional specialist in the first year of studies and faculty advisor to “show some skin.” we look for­ward to hearing your thoughts and contributing to the discussion of inclusion on campus. 
Katie Mackin 

“Thoroughly modern millie” director 
Jon Olansen 
pemco executive producer 
Evie Bauman 
pemco producer 
Meg Gegick 
pemco producer 

some thoughts on election day 
while we are disappointed to see The observer’s endorsement go to another ticket, we remain as confident as ever that our ticket, bertolotti-fenton, is the most qualified and most experienced one in this race for student body president and vice president. 
our message is the same as it’s been ever since we knew we wanted to run: notre dame students deserve a student government that is transparent in what it does, delivers on what it promises and unifies our campus. 
our ticket has a combined four years of experi­ence in student government, and we know how to get things done. we have solid, achievable goals we’ve had the privilege of discussing with many of you over the last two weeks. 
our platform is specific, tangible and neces­sary. if we earn our way to office, we promise you will see fast and impressive results. 
at the end of the day, there’s only one endorse­ment that truly affects this race — yours. we’ve been door to door at every dorm on campus, talk­ing to you all about the issues you want dealt with. 
our campaign isn’t flashy. we don’t have celeb­rity endorsements or the support of national news organizations. what we have is important years of experience and a deep appreciation for this beau­tiful institution. 
Today, spread the word to your friends. Think about what this election means. above all, vote. a vote for bertolotti-fenton is a vote for transpar­ency, deliverability and unity. Thank you all for your support. 
Louis Bertolotti 

student body presidential candidate 
Elizabeth Fenton 

student body vice presidential candidate 
A final call to vote 
“The very essence of leadership is that you have to have vision. you can’t blow an uncertain trum­pet.” — fr. Theodore hesburgh 
let us be frank. why us, dom alberigi and Jenn cha, and not the other candidates? because we have vision. our ideas — which include an ex­pansion and diversification of ucc resources, animal therapy rooms and providing a respectful learning ground on important social issues by inviting prominent public figures to speak in de­bate — are fresh, concrete and crucial to mental, physical and community health for notre dame students. 
we have the perspective of regular students who care deeply about the university, who have been involved in almost every sphere of student activity. collectively, we have been directly in­volved in prismnd, diversity council, Take back The night, the grc, division i rowing, club rugby and boxing, esl tutoring and so much more. we’ve actively talked to students across backgrounds of different race, gender, sexual­ity, socioeconomic status, etc. about how nd can support them better. we are the only candidates with a progressive vision for notre dame who are also willing to dedicate their full energy and time to student government. 
we have policy and internal experience, but we also have the hands-on, in-the-trenches experi­ence necessary to represent notre dame. would you trust a pilot who had only run simulations to fly you across the atlantic? for example, the robinson-blais campaign has a substantive sex­ual assault response policy, but ours is equally as substantive, and Jenn has worked in the grc on sexual assault and other difficult topics for years. 
lastly, we have been criticized for being too ambitious in our vision for notre dame. but we say there is no such thing, so long as we have the experience, drive and resources exist to support it. for example, in regard to our mental health initiatives, notre dame received a generous $10 million donation specifically endowed toward mental health in 2014, with $700,000 in interest per year available to spend. why not use these substantial resources to dream big, expanding the existing infrastructure to change the statistic from 12 percent of students using ucc resources to eventually 100 percent? These improvements will come gradually, and we recognize we are just part of that change. we are fighting for tangible, short-term initiatives, but we are also investing in the university’s future. Thank you for your time, and vote alberigi-cha 2016. 
Dominic Alberigi 

student body presidential candidate 
Jennifer Cha 

student body vice presidential candidate 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: don’t panic if you don’t know where to begin with your projects. Tackle whatever comes your way and keep moving forward one step at a time. Take action and be an active participant. focus on love, happiness and success, not regret and disappointment. keep busy, take care of business and steer clear of people who want to argue. your numbers are 6, 13, 22, 24, 31, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): offer to help others, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you. Take on responsibilities that help you advance. learn from your dealings with others, and you will feel good about who you are and what you can do. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you’ll instinctively know what to do. once you begin to head in the direction of your choice, you will find the path to success is one of great ease and joy. embrace life and emphasize what you know and do best. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): listen and consider all the angles of every situation you face. don’t feel obligated to make a decision until you are ready to do so with confidence. Too much confusion will lead to inconsistency and promises you won’t want to keep. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): explore new interests and let your creative imagination lead you in a new direction. be open to new friendships and sharing ideas with people you feel have something to contribute. romance is highlighted and will leave a memorable impression. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): embrace change. fighting the inevitable will lead to stagnation. connect with the people who have always offered you good advice and support. recognize that time is on your side and a slow build in the right direction is your best choice. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take more time for yourself. spend time with the people who bring you the most joy. expand your interests and be open about how you want to move forward in regard to important relationships. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t get trapped by someone who is trying to control your every move. you have to take responsibility for your life. make the alterations that will produce the freedom you need to follow your heart and your dreams. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t leave anything undone if you want to avoid criticism. find out what you need to know in order to bring about change and make a difference to your world. a unique approach or technique will lead to good fortune. love is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll get worked up easily if you believe everything you hear. Take a step back from whatever situation you face, and you’ll realize that things aren’t the way you originally perceived them. make personal changes that will enhance your knowledge. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): your determination and desire will not let you down. you will outdo anyone who challenges you and bring about an opportunity that will improve your life emotionally, financially and physically. romance is encouraged. speak up and make a difference. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): listen and consider all the angles before you make a decision that will influence your direction for an extended period of time. refuse to back down or give in if there is something you really want. explain your strategy and make things happen. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): consider what you are up against, and you’ll find a workable solution that will lead to recognition and a chance to do something you’ve always wanted to do. love and romance will help bring you closer to a personal goal. 

Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, caring and original. you are passionate and efficient. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 



To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 
make checks payable and mail to: 
Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds 
The observer 

must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The 
p.o. box 779 

Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
notre dame, in 46556 



enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name address city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Louisville ban raises other issues 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
late last week, louisville announced a self-imposed postseason ban for its men’s basketball program this sea­son in response to allegations that prostitutes were used in the program’s recruiting practices. 
The ban itself was not un­precedented; nearly a year ago, syracuse announced its decision to not participate in postseason play amidst allegations of academic mis­conduct. as was the case in syracuse’s scandal, louisville likely hopes taking the initia­tive of banning itself from the postseason will mitigate some of the penalties handed down by the ncaa once the governing body completes its investigation. 
The recent developments in the scandal highlight two separate rules in the ncaa that need adjustment. The first is simply the al­lowance of midseason self-imposed bans. yesterday, ben padanilam addressed this point within the context of louisville’s ban in detail, characterizing the ban overall as misguided. 
This interpretation of the situation is absolutely cor­rect. permitting teams to an­nounce sanctions midseason is nothing short of ridiculous. because players who were not involved in wrongdoing are regularly the ones who have to deal with ncaa sanc­tions, allowing any bans to be placed midseason definitely should be regarded as unfair. historically, when postseason bans have been placed in the offseason by the ncaa, play­ers were given the chance to transfer to another school immediately without hav­ing to redshirt a year, which is typical protocol for non-graduate transfers. obviously, this option cannot reasonably exist for players when their school decides midseason they will not attend postsea­son tournaments. 
moreover, while it is yet to be determined how much the self-imposed ban will ameliorate louisville’s ulti­mate punishment, it seems dubious to reward teams for constructing their own punishments. The fact that louisville announced the ban during a season in which it is a legitimate contender suggests how severe the pro­gram’s wrongdoings are, but that was certainly not the case last year when syracuse assigned itself a ban in the middle of a underwhelming season which had very few projecting the orange as an ncaa tournament team. it’s far from sensible that syracuse was potentially re­warded (the ncaa’s sanctions did not include any further postseason ban) for volun­teering out of a postseason they likely would not have been a part of anyway. 
in addition to the need for the ncaa to outlaw or at least not recognize self-imposed midseason bans, the louisville situation brings to light, though less directly, the need for the ncaa to regulate its graduate transfer rules. 
when the news of the ban broke over the weekend, the typical reaction across the sports world was to sympa­thize with louisville’s star grad transfers Trey lewis and damion lee, who were es­sentially cheated out of their last year of college basketball. while the midseason ban is certainly unfair to lewis and lee, the grad transfer rule that allowed both of them the chance to play at louisville this year is perhaps equally unfair. 
in recent years, the grad transfer rule, which provides players who have graduated but still possess one year of eligibility the opportunity to immediately play at another school, has become popular among college programs. while the idea of letting college graduates transfer schools for specific graduate programs is not intrinsically bad, the rule has undeniably gotten out of hand. according to ncaa data, only approxi­mately 32 percent of college basketball graduate trans­fers actually earn graduate degrees, and in football the number is an even lower 24 percent. 
it is naïve to suggest col­leges and the ncaa currently prioritize academics over ath­letics or will so in the future. but the expansive tolerance of graduate transfers only fur­ther enlarges the discrepancy between players being stu­dents and student-athletes. 
so, while louisville’s self-imposed policing efforts were undeniably unfair, it doesn’t seem egregious to hypoth­esize that Trey lewis and his undergraduate communica­tions management degree are collectively taking advantage of an entirely separate rule the ncaa needs to adjust. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | maryland 93, bowie sTaTe 62 
no. 2 maryland cruises to win over bowie state 
Associated Press 
college park, md.— second-ranked maryland got 16 points from rasheed sulaimon and cruised past bowie state 93-62 on Tuesday night for its school-record 27th consecutive home victory. 
Taking a break from their rigorous big Ten schedule, the Terrapins (22-3) enjoyed a stress-free encounter with bowie state, a division ii school in maryland. 
maryland coach mark Turgeon went to his bench early and received a solid performance from backup center michal cekovsky, who usually sees little playing time behind diamond stone and damonte dodd. 
cekovsky scored 11 of his 14 points in the first half to help the Terrapins take a 47­29 lead. his previous career high was 10. 
maryland’s home winning streak eclipses a 26-game run at cole field house from feb. 10, 1979, to Jan. 10, 1981. The Terrapins are 14-0 at home this season and haven’t lost on their own court since falling to virginia on dec. 3, 2014. 
although maryland’s re­serves saw ample playing time, each member of the usual starting five played at least 16 minutes. sulaimon went 7 for 10 from the field and stone had 14 points. 
miles Jackson scored 13 points for the bulldogs (13­10), a member of the central intercollegiate athletic conference. 
maryland originally in­tended to face bowie state in a preseason exhibition, but the Terps asked for this regular-season date because they didn’t want to go a week without a playing a game. 
The intensity that accom­panied last saturday’s home win over purdue was notice­ably absent. although at­tendance was announced as a sellout at 17,950, the arena was just over half full. 
it was apparent early that maryland was too tall, too quick and way too talented for bowie state. The bulldogs picked up nine fouls in the opening 6 1/2 minutes in fall­ing behind 14-5. a 3-pointer by reserve Jaylen brantley and two straight dunks by cekovsky made it 21-7. 
The Terrapins made only two more baskets than bowie state in the first half, but outscored the bulldogs 19-4 at the free throw line and owned a 25-12 advantage on the boards. 
The second half was more of the same. 
Tip-ins 
bowie state: The defeat ended the bulldogs’ two-game winning streak. ... after scoring 20 and 21 points in his previous two games, andre Jackson was limited to nine points on 2-for-8 shooting. ... bowie state’s previous most lopsided loss of the season was by 13 points, at alderson­broaddus on nov. 21. 
maryland: melo Trimble had five points and three as­sists before leaving with 13:13 left. ... maryland finished with a 39-27 rebounding ad­vantage. ... This was the first meeting between the teams in the regular season. They played an exhibition in 2014. 
Up next 
bowie state: hosts virginia union on wednesday night. maryland: hosts wisconsin on saturday. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Connecticut looks toward the NCAA tournament 
Associated Press 
columbia, s.c.— uconn coach geno auriemma smiled at his three upperclass start­ers, savoring the latest vir­tuoso performance on the big stage by breanna stewart, morgan Tuck and moriah Jefferson — and fretting about their departure next season. 
“i carry five cellphones now with all the coaches who want to schedule us next year when these guys leave,” auriemma said monday night. 
count south carolina coach dawn staley among them after stewart, Tuck and Jefferson combined for 53 points in no. 1 uconn’s 66-54 blowout of the second-ranked gamecocks. 
stewart led the way with 25 points, Tuck had 16 points and Jefferson 12 as the huskies (23-0) won their 60th straight game and improved to 19-3 in no. 1-vs.-no. 2 matchups. 
“These games are a lot of fun,” said stewart, who also had 10 rebounds and five blocks. “They are exciting for us.’ 
auriemma felt the increased vibe as his team stepped out of its american athletic conference schedule. his players soaked in the antici­pation of the season’s big­gest game — the gamecocks (22-1) came having opened with 22 straight wins — and played with a fire in front of a sold-out, 18,000-seat arena to prove themselves the best, the longtime coach said. 
“The fun part is the look in their eyes,” he said. 
uconn took control early, up 30-15 midway through the second quarter. 
stewart was the main rea­son why, finishing with her ninth double-double this sea­son. The 6-foot-4 senior also played strong defense against south carolina’s inside stars in a’ja wilson and alaina coates. The gamecocks duo, averaging 28 points combined this season, ended with just about half that (15) in their first loss of the season. 
uconn  handed  the  
gamecocks  their  first  loss  
here  since  falling to Texas  

a&m 50-48 on feb. 10, 2013. wilson and sarah imovbioh had 13 points apiece to lead 
south carolina. 
uconn again showed quick­ly why it has no equal in the women’s game. stewart and Tuck each had six points as the huskies opened up a 16-8 lead. They were still ahead 20-12 when stewart hit for a 3-pointer and a driving layup to increase the margin. 
uconn was eventually ahead by 15 points before the gamecocks put forth a burst in the final four minutes of the second to cut the lead to 35-25 at the break. 
staley said last week when discussing uconn she’d easily trade a win over the huskies at the final four for one during the season. “i told our players that there’s a long way to go, a lot of basketball left, before we get there” to the final four, she said. 
south carolina lost its lead­ing scorer in wilson with 4:22 left in the second quarter as she injured her left leg. wilson was jostling for a rebound she landed hard and was in obvi­ous pain just off the court. Trainers worked on her lower leg before she was helped up and led to the locker room. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND SOFTBALL 

irish set to begin season in arizona 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame opens the 2016 sea­son this weekend at the kajikawa classic Tournament in Tempe, arizona. 
The irish are set to play two doubleheaders over the weekend. They will open the tournament friday, first taking on utah at 2 
p.m. and then no. 18 kentucky at 7 p.m. on saturday, the irish will face byu at 1:30 p.m., followed by no. 21 california at 4 p.m. notre dame closes out the weekend with a late morning matchup against georgia state on sunday. 
notre dame ranks 24th in the preseason usa Today national fastpitch coaches association division i coaches poll, released two weeks ago, marking the sec­ond straight season it has en­tered the season within the top 25 teams. conference foes florida state and north carolina state are also ranked alongside the irish. 
individually, 13 monogram winners from 2015 return for the irish. These veterans will be joined by freshmen catcher maddie mccracken, pitcher caitlyn brooks, outfielder/infield­er ali wester and infielder melissa rochford. last season’s squad made the program’s 17th and 20th all-time consecutive appearance in the ncaa championship. The team also broke several single-season program records, with 543 hits, 395 runs and a .419 on-base percentage. 
The 2016 squad coming off a 42-15 record last season. The irish hosted an ncaa regional round at melissa cook stadium as part of the ncaa tournament. after losing their first game of the tour­nament to ball state, the irish rebounded with wins against northwestern and ball state be­fore losing to kentucky on may 17 in an elimination game. 
The irish will spend the first five weeks of the season competing in out-of-conference tournaments in warm-weather states like arizona, california and florida. Then the irish kick off acc con­ference play against virginia in charlottesville, virginia, on march 12, before hosting their first home game march 17 against bowling green. notable matchups include a home series against no. 10 florida state on april 2-3 and the sixth annual strikeout cancer weekend against louisville on april 30-may 1. looking ahead to the postseason, the acc con­ference tournament will take place at dail softball stadium in raleigh, north carolina, from may 12-14. 
The irish swing into the spring season at the kajikawa classic Tournament in Tempe, arizona, this weekend. They open friday with a doubleheader, leading off against utah at 2 p.m. 


SMC BASKETBALL 
SMC prepares to host annual Pink Game 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
The belles kick off the last of their regular season games playing for a good cause. 
saint mary’s hosts confer­ence foe adrian for the pro­gram’s annual pink game on wednesday at angela athletic facility. The belles (1-21, 1-12 miaa) raise mon­ey for a cancer-related cause during this annual event. This year, the team has cho­sen again to fundraise for an organization that sup­ports children who have lost a parent to cancer with various resources, ranging from scholarship opportu­nities to cancer education programs. This organization has a special meaning for the team and belles head coach Jennifer henley. 
“our team has chosen once again to honor the angel wings fund,” henley said. “This fund was created by a good friend of mine, keisha brown.” 
brown was the head wom­en’s basketball coach at alma, another miaa con­ference opponent, as well as a close friend of henley’s. she was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 2007 and fought the disease on four separate occasions until her passing in the spring of 2014. when brown was first diagnosed with cancer, her daughter angel was only a year old. while brown knew her friends and family would be there to support and raise angel if she lost her battle with cancer, she was moved to consider children in a similar situation who would not be so fortunate, henley said. not only does the angel wings fund help to support the child’s education and promote education about cancer, but it also takes some of the weight from the sur­viving parent’s shoulders, she said. 
The players are equally 
supportive  of  the  game’s  
purpose.  
“coach  brown  was  a  

very close friend to coach henley,” senior captain and guard maddie kohler said. “it really means a lot to her to dedicate this game to angel wings and to coach brown’s family. 
“The pink game has al­ways been close to our hearts and special since we played against coach brown 
paid adverTisemenT 
and know her story and long battle with cancer.” 
last year’s pink game raised $2,660 for the angel wings fund, which is more than double the amount raised in 2014. The belles will be raising money throughout the game by sell­ing headbands and pink des­serts. The proceeds will go directly to the angel wings fund. 
on the court, the belles will be battling another tough opponent. adrian (9-11, 6-6) stands fifth in the confer­ence but enter the matchup after falling, 76-56, on the road to kalamazoo this past saturday. The belles also lost that day to hope, 95-58. 
as the season comes to a close, henley said she has high hopes for her team, which has been improving over the last few games, she said. 
“we have three games left and we are looking to send our seniors off on a great season,” henley said. 
The belles host adrian on wednesday at angela athletic facility at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | The observer 

Mazurek 
conTinued from page 12 
championships in three weeks, the irish need to show they can match up against tough competition, as they did in the prior meet, to give themselves some momentum going into the postseason 
at iowa this weekend, the men’s team will face seven programs ranked in the top 
25. how the irish stack up may be a good indicator of what to expect for notre dame in the conference championships. 
The irish certainly are not be expected to win against powerhouses like no. 1 florida and no. 10 georgia, but a competitive showing at the iowa state classic is es­sential for notre dame’s star athletes, as they will likely be rested next weekend right be­fore the acc championship. 
bamgbose and seidel al­ready have their slots in the ncaa championships locked 


Hadley 
conTinued from page 12 
defensive end.” 
The reason for notre dame’s newfound dominance on de­fense, mcgraw said, is the player who was missing when the irish lost to connecticut: Turner. 
after missing six games due to a shoulder injury, Turner has come back with a vengeance for notre dame, ranking first on the team in points per game, rebounds per game and blocks. indeed, she has swatted 60 shots in just 18 games, ranking her sixth in the nation in blocks per game. 
“brianna certainly is huge. The difference when she’s not there, the games she missed was almost a 20-point swing,” mcgraw said. “when you have that shot blocker back there, it gives you a little more confi­dence in your defense.” 
but Turner is not the only irish player excelling on the defensive side. graduate student guard madison cable has enjoyed a breakout year offensively and is tied with Turner for the team lead in points, but her defensive work has been solid as well, as she ranks second on the squad in steals and blocks and third in rebounds. freshman guard marina mabrey has also swiped the ball 44 times. 
what’s interesting is these three players are also among notre dame’s biggest offensive weapons. while no one can question the defensive effort of loyd, mcbride or diggins, it is unusual for the irish to have so many players that are equally ef­fective on both sides of the court. 
it’s been said time and time again over the past couple years, but notre dame began this sea­son looking ripe for a fall. five straight final fours notwith­standing, the departure of loyd last season was a massive blow to the team’s offensive firepower, and the loss of freshman guard ali patberg and junior forward Taya reimer cannot have done anything positive for its morale. while the irish had too much talent to completely crumble, a third consecutive national championship game seemed unlikely. 
yet once again, the team has reinvented itself. Though it took some time, the players are gell­ing, and although the irish are not blowing out opponents like they have done in years past, they have built a solid two-way team that can defend with the best of them. hope springs eter­nal for notre dame. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


up, but it would be great for the team to see middle dis­tance runners like miller, english and harris get near-personal bests. 
for the men, junior sprinters alex groesch and harvey smith should also continue to improve as well as they aim to place well in the acc championship. 
at the end of the day, notre dame’s individual athletes will succeed. however, whether that amounts to seidel and bamgbose winning hon­ors or the team as a whole placing highly in the acc remains to be seen. This is an important weekend for the irish, and consistency is key. 
The irish compete against 35 other programs at the iowa state classic on feb. 12 and 13 at lied recreation athletic center in ames, iowa. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish reinvent identity on defensive end 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 
This past monday, no. 1 connecticut did what it does best and blew out no. 2 south carolina, 66-54, on the road, never trailing the entire way. 
That result means, in all like­lihood, no. 3 notre dame will move up to take the gamecocks spot as the second-best team in the country. The irish (23-1, 11-0 acc) have also lost to the huskies, but they did so by only 10 points, in storrs, conn., on dec. 5, and without the acc preseason player of the year, sophomore forward brianna Turner. so they certainly deserve the no. 2 spot. 
it’s a place the irish have been often in the past few years, but the way in which they have reached it is decidedly different from muffet mcgraw’s previous squads. over the past six sea­sons, notre dame has ranked in the top 11 nationally in scoring offense but never in that range on defense. led by stars such as skylar diggins, kayla mcbride and Jewell loyd, the irish have been an offensive juggernaut that also played sound, though never spectacular, defense. 
but 2016 has told a new story. since the new year, notre dame is allowing just 53 points per game and has yet to allow any opponent to score more than 66, which has shot it to the top of the acc in scoring defense in conference games. if the irish are able to keep that 53-point average up, it will be their best conference mark in more than a decade. 
even mcgraw has acknowl­edged her players are doing things on the defensive end her other teams just didn’t. after notre dame topped north carolina state, 82-46, last Thursday, she praised her team’s effort. 
“i looked the other day and we’re first in the conference. That’s astounding. we’re nor­mally up there offensively, but it’s a nice change to be up there defensively,” mcgraw said. “it means we’re really working hard. and that’s where you see the team chemistry, on the 
see hadley PAGE 11 


TRACK & FIELD 

nd roster full of talent, seeks consistency 


Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
There is no debating that notre dame boasts a solid track program. 
The irish women’s team has the reigning 10,000-meter ncaa champion and all-acc indoor championships most valuable Track performer in senior distance runner molly seidel and an eight-time all­american in senior sprinter margaret bamgbose. 
having a deep rotation of 400-meter and distance run­ners, including senior kaila barber, sophomores payton miller, Jessica harris and parker english and freshman distance runner anna rohrer, doesn’t hurt either. 
and even though the men’s team has lagged behind the women’s in recent years, standout performances from junior thrower anthony shivers and junior pole vault­er nate richartz figure to give the irish relevance in the acc this season. 
however, as the irish split up this weekend to compete in ames, iowa, and geneva, ohio, they still have to prove they can consistently perform against other top programs. 
The team opened the sea­son slowly, placing second out of two teams at the wisconsin open on Jan. 16 and then fin­ishing fourth at home in the notre dame invitational on Jan 23. 
after the meet, head coach alan Turner said he expected his squad to perform with more effort. The team re­sponded at the indiana relays on Jan. 29 and 30 and again at the meyo invitational last weekend. 
at the meyo invitational, seidel and bamgbose won the 3,000-meter run and the 400-meter dash, respectively, and barber posted an im­pressive time of 8.14 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles. richartz won the pole vault for the third time this season after notching the top spot at the blue and gold invitational on dec. 12 and again at the notre dame invitational. senior danielle aragon also returned from injury with a solid showing in the meyo mile. 
now, the team stands at a critical point in the indoor season. with the acc 
see maZurek PAGE 11 




