The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 74 | THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Ireland program offers internship opportunities 
Wide-ranging internships grant students exposure to cultural and professional environment of Ireland 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
many notre dame students are all too familiar with the arduous search that is find­ing a summer internship. with that experience in mind, irish internship program offers stu­dents a unique and challenging opportunity of not just an intern­ship experience but a chance to live abroad in a country many on campus hold dear: ireland. 
senior megan ball, who par­ticipated in the irish internship program last summer, said the program lasts for eight to 10 weeks and offers a wide variety of internship opportunities for students. The program is made possible by the o’connell house, notre dame’s study abroad headquarters in dublin. 
“it encompasses around 50 internship opportunities in various sectors from education to finance to research to the arts,” ball said. “The program also incorporates, in addition 
see ireland PAGE 4 


 Photo courtesy of Ciarán Pollard 

Last summer, Notre Dame student interns immersed themselves in the culture and scenery of Ireland. The O’Connell House intern program offers around 50 opportunities in a variety of industries. 

2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: DAVID CAMPBELL 


Professor provides insight on developments in primaries 
Jack rooney: iowa caucuses david campbell: This, of 

By JACK ROONEY 

managing editor in less than two weeks and new course, is the $64,000 ques­hampshire votes about a week tion. everything we know — Editor’s Note: Throughout the after that. with voting now im-or thought we knew — about 


SMC launches hashtag campaign 
much i love that blog and thought, 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 

news writer ‘why don’t we do something 
here?’” Fitzmaurice said. 
saint mary’s initiated a new “humans of new york” is a blog social media campaign this started by photographer brandon semester by implementing stanton, according to its Facebook 
2016 presidential campaign, 
The Observer will sit down 
with Notre Dame experts to 
break down the election and its 
importance to students. In this 
first installment, Managing 
Editor Jack Rooney asks 
Political Science Department 
Chair David Campbell about 

presidential nominations has 
two new instagram hashtags, 
been upended by Trump. based 
#bellesofsaintmarys and 
on past research, it would seem 
#smcseniormoments. 
that he does not have a chance 
Junior communications ma­
— his supporters have a low 
jor kate Fitzmaurice, who is 
likelihood of turning out, the 
a new saint mary’s media re-
party establishment is against 
lations intern for director 
him and (it is easy to forget) he 
of media relations gwen 


page. stanton goes around new 
york to interview people on the 
street and features these peoples’ 
stories on his blog. 
“he finds and brings out in­teresting things about them,” 
Fitzmaurice said. she thought a similar idea would 
is actually not all that conser­

the upcoming primaries  minent and donald Trump still  vative. on the other hand, he  
and the biggest issues of the  near the top of most republican  keeps defying expectations. i  
campaign.  polls, does he actually have a  

shot at the nomination? 
see elecTion PAGE 5 



panel probes islamophobia 
o’brien, thought of the hastag be a fun way to bring campus to #bellesofsaintmarys in order to life on social media, Fitzmaurice 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer 
a panel of international studies scholars discussed the rise of islamophobia in europe on wednesday after­noon at the hesburgh center for international studies. The panel, which is spon­sored by the kroc institute for international peace studies and the nanovic institute for european studies, examined reasons for the recent spike in anti-muslim activity in several european countries, as well as possible solutions. 

maurizio albahari, an as­sistant professor of anthro­pology, said islamophobia is nothing new, as the term itself was created in the 1990s. 
“when the world is com­pelled to coin a new term to account for increasingly wide­spread bigotry, that is sad and troubling,” albahari said. 
however, albahari said islamophobia now is worse than it has ever previously been in europe. 
“opinions that you could not say out loud a few years ago abut muslims — opinions that would have sounded rac­ist — are allowed,” albahari said. 
visiting assistant professor aysegul Zeren said recent ter­rorist attacks are largely re­sponsible for the recent rise in islamophobia. 
“Today, the escalation of islamophobia in europe has an obvious link to the January 
see islam PAGE 5 
get students involved with the college on social media. 
o’brien said she initiated the campaign due to the past suc­cess of another instagram tag, #smcsummerlearn. 
“social media is one way ... to give other students, prospective students, and parents an oppor­tunity to have a glimpse of what goes on here and what the student experience is,” o’brien said. 
Fitzmaurice said her idea was inspired by the popular blog, “humans of new york.” 
“i was thinking about how said. 

“i thought there are a lot of faces that you see and recognize on campus, but you don’t re­ally know anything about them,” Fitzmaurice said. 
o’brien said she quickly ap­proved of Fitzmaurice’s idea. 
“i wouldn’t have come up, hon­estly, with the ‘humans of new york’ idea on my own,” o’brien said. 
“i need the younger perspective 

— it’s very valuable.” 
see insTagram PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney                        cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

If you could choose any celebrity to be a presidential candidate, who would it be? 

Cassidy Purucker 
senior 
le mans hall 
“leonardo dicaprio.” 
Colleen Quinn 
junior 
le mans hall 
“morgan Freeman.” 
Katie Dwyer 
junior 
le mans hall 
“Jennifer lawrence.” 


Nina Hartman 
first year 
regina hall 
“benedict cumberbatch.” 
Taylor Schuler 
senior off campus 
“brad pitt.” 
Janecsy Estrada 
junior 
regina hall 
“ellen degeneres.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Ann Marie Jakubowski. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

kayla mullen Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Jp gschwind marek mazurek kathryn marshall maureen schweninger 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du John darr 
Photo Viewpoint 

“Finding Vivian Labor Café Education and La Misa en Espaol Sustainability Expo 
emily kruse scott olehnik 

Maier” Geddes Hall Research Forum Dillon Hall LaFortune Student Snite Museum of Art 5 p.m.-6 p.m. Jordan Hall of Science 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Center 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. Discussion related to 8:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. All are welcome to this 7:00 p.m-8:00 p.m. 
Corrections 

Film about the street work, inequality and Focus on technology mass celebrated in Environmental 
The observer regards itself as photographer. social justice. use in education. Spanish. research opportunities. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“A Midsummer Camille A. Brown & Men’s Basketball vs. Women’s Basketball Passionist Volunteer 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Night’s Dream” Dancers Boston College vs. Virginia Tech Campus Visit 
however, recognize that we will make 
Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Joyce Center Purcell Pavilion Geddes Hall 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7:30p.m.-9:55 p.m. Arts Center 12 p.m.-2 p.m. 1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m. 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Performed by Actors 7 p.m.-8 p.m. The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Information about the 
we can correct our error. 

from the London Stage. Storytelling and dance. Eagles. Hokies. program in Jamaica. 


STUDENT SENATE 

group approves secretary, discusses residential life 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
student senate met wednesday evening to approve sophomore mae raab as the new student union secretary for the remainder of the 2015­2016 school year, and discuss re­cent announcements regarding housing changes. 
student body president bryan ricketts nominated raab for the position, citing her com­mitment to the green dot ini­tiative and “a safe and inclusive campus for all,” as a valuable addition to the administration. raab will take the place of for­mer secretary sibonay shewit, who is now student body chief of staff. 
“mae’s communications will be an asset as she crafts the min-efforts aided in the completion of dorm week and the it’s on us campaign launch. 
Following the approval of raab’s nomination, director of internal affairs rebecca blais resigned from her position, stat­ing that her goals for the semes­ter come into conflict with the student union constitution: “election committee members may not campaign for any ticket while holding this position.” 
“one of the duties of director of internal affairs is to serve as a non-voting member of the election committee; therefore, in respect of the duties of my position and the constitution of the undergraduate student body, i am formally resigning my position on cabinet in order to pursue a position in the next term of student government,” forward … Talking and working through issues, in terms of dis­cussion about what it means to be in leadership and the kinds of responsibilities that exist,” ruelas said. 
The senate proceeded to dis­cuss recent announcements about future adjustments to housing, exchanging questions and giving feedback. Zahm house senator John Julien ad­dressed the rumors of removing common rooms from five-man rooms, which are often used as spaces for social gather­ings, in order to accommodate overcrowding. 
Julien and keenan hall senator wilson barrett raised concern about the impacts such actions would have on tight-knit dorm communities. others expressed concern about ef­

nd alumnus named in Forbes ‘30 under 30’ 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 

since age 12, emerson spartz has been obsessed with what makes online content go viral. 
Forbes recently named spartz, a 2009 graduate of notre dame, as one of its “30 under 30” in the me­dia category for his work as founder of dose, a tech-driven media company that curates content based on detailed analytics and pre­dicts what stories will have success. 
spartz said he started his entrepreneurial career as a young “harry potter” fan who wanted to make a successful stories on the internet are inspiring and connect with positive hu­man emotions. 
“we share what images of ourselves we want to promote to our family and friends,” spartz said. 
according to spartz, typ­ically, this image aligns with positive content and uplifting stories. 
dose has received more than $30 million from in­vestors and has grown into a substantial compa­ny with about 50 employ­ees, according to crain’s chicago business. since its inception, spartz said his role and his priorities have shifted. 
“my work now involves 

utes for our various committees, stated blais. fectively targeting overcrowd-
but more importantly, she is in members of senate proceeded ing in dorms and the lack of 
it for the team, and values the to successfully vote on closing transparency in the announce-
interpersonal relationships that the previous semester’s discus-ment of the temporary dorm 
she is able to build wherever she sion of diversity council lead-movements. 
goes,” ricketts read from his let-ership in order to move forward pangborn hall is currently 
ter, addressing the senate. with other agenda items. The planning an open house for the much more time manage­

ment and delegating,” 
spartz said. 
at notre dame, spartz 
said he developed habits to 
become a more disciplined 
learner, including culti­
“i trust she will ably lend her skills to catalyze change on behalf of the student body,” ricketts said. 
raab previously served on the residential life and gender issues committees, where her diversity council leadership had chosen not to attend the senate meeting, according to nidia ruelas, student body vice president. 
“we will be talking to diversity council about moving residents of walsh hall, badin hall, and morrissey manor, according to pangborn hall senator Taylor still. 
Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


website. mugglenet quick­ly found success, and it hooked him on concep­tualizing and using the mechanisms behind the popularity of online con­tent to attract readers. 
“The principles are still the same, but dose is sig­nificantly more techno­logically advanced,” spartz said of this particular project. 
spartz said the funda­mental goal of his work is to evaluate what content has the best potential to go vi­ral, a task aided by sophis­ticated analytic tools that can pinpoint what makes certain pieces of content succeed and others fail. he said internet content is becoming increasingly de­mocratized — good content stands out and is rewarded by views and shares. 
“Quality [of internet con­tent] is getting easier to measure,” spartz said. 
spartz said while nega­tive internet content that elicits anger may attract some attention, the most vating a voracious reading habit and completing tests to improve his information retention. 
“i promised myself i would read one nonfiction book every day during col­lege in order to get a broad perspective,” spartz said. 
spartz said college stu­dents interested in entre­preneurship should read widely. he recommends “The lean startup” by eric ries and “80/20 sales and marketing” by perry marshall, in particular. 
“you need to learn how to sell — everything is sales, no matter what job you’re in,” spartz said. 
These days, spartz de­votes the first couple of hours of his day to personal development and learn­ing, which involves a lot of research, reading and w riting. 
“if you can discover how to motivate yourself, then you can apply yourself,” he said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Ireland 
conTinued From page 1 
to valuable work experience, a cultural enrichment program that exposes participants to all aspects of irish culture through trips, and a professional develop­ment series.” 
ciarán pollard, intern coor­dinator for the program, said internship placements for 2016 include the bank of ireland, abbey Theatre, department of Foreign affairs-press section and the irish cancer society. 
ball said her favorite part of the program was the immersion ex­perience of living and working in ireland. 
“The best part of program is certainly the opportunity to com­pletely immerse yourself in the world of another culture,” ball said. “while studying abroad is a truly great experience, to live and work in a city brings things into a whole new perspective. 
“you are a part of the hustle and bustle of a busy work day,” she said. “The office culture differs, and the lifestyle of irish work­ing persons is slightly different than americans, [and] experi­encing these things allows you to re-enter the u.s. with a new perspective.” 


sarah witt, a senior who also participated in the internship program last summer, said any­one can apply to the program. it is not restricted by interest or ma­jor but simply to students looking to spend time getting to know ireland and irish culture, witt said. 
ball said the program is espe­cially helpful for students in the college of arts and letters, who often struggle the most with find­ing summer opportunities. 
“it is rare to find great intern­ships in your particular field of study that are funded if you study in the liberal arts,” ball said. 
“but the irish interns program allows for a fully-funded oppor­tunity that is not only fabulous for career and educational develop­ment, but is also super fun!” 
witt said she encourages all students to consider spending their summer in ireland. The deadline to apply for the program is Friday, witt said. 
“This past summer was one of the best experiences of my life,” witt said. “i strongly encourage you to apply. … you will have a wonderful summer going on ad­ventures across ireland, gaining work experience and making life­long friendships.” 
Contact Emma Borne  eborne@nd.edu 
Instagram 
conTinued From page 1 

Fitzmaurice said she hopes the campaign promotes a sense of community for students. 
“i hope that #bellesofsaintmarys further promotes the sense of com­munity we have here at saint mary’s,” Fitzmaurice said. 
“it gives us a chance to cel­ebrate and be supportive of each other’s unique talents and ideas.” 
senior melissa Fitzpatrick, who is also a media rela­tions intern under o’brien, came up with the hashtag #smcseniormoments exclu­sively for saint mary’s seniors. 
“it’s their bucket list of things they want to do before they graduate, or their feel­ings and thoughts about saint mary’s, or what saint mary’s means to them,” Fitzmaurice said. 
Fitzpatrick said her idea was inspired by her feelings about her final semester at saint mary’s. 
“There are so many emo­tions - excitement, fear, relief, accomplishment - overall, it’s bittersweet,” Fitzpatrick said. 
“i want this social media campaign to give the se­nior class a chance to slow it down, recognize our accom­plishments, laugh a little and most importantly, remember our final moments at saint mary’s.” 
both campaigns were made for the students, o’brien said. 
“The students have this en­ergy that is truly what saint mary’s is,” o’brien said. 
“it’s confident, it’s fun, it’s fresh. it really can be any­thing they want to be. 
“who knows what we’ll find out as students start sharing their stories.” 
both interns said how en­joyable they find getting to know the saint mary’s student body. 
“honestly, it’s just so fun getting to know people,” Fitzmaurice said. 
“i’ve loved interviewing people and i hope that i can bring that excitement to all of saint mary’s through the so­cial media campaign.” 
if anybody would like to be featured or knows somebody else who would, contact kate Fitzmaurice at kfitzm01@ saintmarys.edu to be featured in #bellesofsaintmarys, or contact melissa Fitzpatrick at mfitzp01@saintmarys. edu to be featured in #smcseniormoments. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 




“The reactions can vary from Islam verbal and physical attacks to 
conTinued From page 1 
negative stereotyping in the 

media.” 2015 charlie hebdo shootings however, albahari said and the november attacks on european governments have paris,” Zeren said. failed to provide any help to 
Zeren cited a reuters report muslims. as evidence of this disturb-“muslims remain outside the 
“We can make an argument that Islam is not the real danger, but fear from it could be very dangerous for individuals, communities and state.” 
Aysegul Zeren 
visiting assistant professor 

ing increase of islamophobia. domain of anti-racism legisla­according to the report, 400 hate tion in europe,” albahari said. crimes were committed against “This is applied for other racial muslims in France in 2015, triple and religious minorities, but not 
“The challenge that global peace holds for Muslims, Christians, Jews, people of different faiths and people of no faith is to work towards the building of more welcoming environments as well as inclusive cultures for immigrants.” 
A. Rashied Omar 
research scholar 
Islamic studies 

that of the previous year. for muslims.” 
Zeren said this rise in Zeren said this discrimina­islamophobia could continue to tion against muslims has con-have some extremely negative tributed to the rising number of consequences. terrorist attacks. 
“we can make an argument “This is a vicious cycle, with that islam is not the real danger, policies causing marginaliza­but fear from it could be very tion, and marginalization feed-dangerous for individuals, com-ing terrorism, and terrorism munities, and state,” Zeren said. igniting the islamophobia,” Zeren said. 
research scholar of islamic studies and peace-building a. rashied omar said the war on terror has only exacerbated the islamophobia problem. 
“The war on terrorism is not helpful in ameliorating the root causes that provide the fertile ground on which religious ex­tremism thrives,” omar said. 
“on the contrary, it is generat­ing conditions that favor extrem­ism, thus rendering the task of eradicating islamophobia ex­tremely difficult.” 
in order to end the “vicious cy­cle” Zeren described, omar said people of different faiths and cultures must set aside their dif­ferences and attempt to under­stand each other. 
“more efforts should be put in to mutual and respectful dia­logue and interactions, so that people of different cultures, of different faiths and no faiths can get to know each other beyond mere toleration,” omar said. 
in addition, an end to islamophobia and terrorism in europe will only be achieved if european citizens and govern­ments treat migrants and refu­gees more justly, omar said. 
“The challenge that glob­al peace holds for muslims, christians, Jews, people of dif­ferent faiths and people of no faith is to work towards the building of more welcoming en­vironments as well as inclusive cultures for immigrants,” omar said. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 
Election 
conTinued From page 1 

would put his chances, how­ever, at no better than 1 in 3. 
Jr: For the democrats, hillary clinton seems to be the consensus candidate within the party. is there any way she doesn’t get the nomination? 
dc: she is definitely the odds-on favorite. while it is tempting to compare sanders to obama in 2008, when obama was able to beat clinton in spite of her front-runner status, there are big differences between them. For one thing, clinton’s lead in endorsements among the democratic establishment is much greater this year than in 2008. and sanders is no obama. his difficulty attract­ing support among minorities is a huge problem for him. 
Jr: The primary debates, especially the republican debates, seem to have gener­ated more interest and atten­tion this campaign. based on political science research, though, how much do the de­bates matter for candidates and voters? 
dc: debates are like pep rallies, as they can fire up supporters. but they rarely change voters’ minds. 
Jr: moving beyond the up­coming primaries, in your research and opinion, which issue or issues are set to play the biggest role in the general election? 
dc: at home, income in­equality and the uneven per­formance of the economy are sure to be top issues — that is, by many indicators, the economy is booming, and yet wages have stagnated. i am curious to see whether the democratic nominee decides to make gun control a high priority issue. in the past, they have skirted this, but it has recently become more sa­lient. abroad, expect to hear a lot of discussion about isis and safeguarding americans from terrorism. historically, this would make the election like a combination of 2004 — a national security election 
— and 2008, which was fo­cused more on the domestic economy. 
Jr: more specific to a col­lege campus like notre dame, which issue do you think should matter most to college students this election cycle? 
dc: i would pick two. First, the inequality in the current economic system is a press­ing issue, as it means that america is losing its tradi­tional middle class. This af­fects all of us. second, the environment should con­tinue to be a concern, as it is for many millennials already. while i do not expect the en­vironment to be a top issue in the general election, this does not negate its importance for the rising generation. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

a four-way race? 
Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 

i’m a history major, meaning if you ask me po­litical questions dealing with the completely — or mostly — dead, i can usually give you a rough an­swer that at least rhymes with part of the truth. The most up-to-date information about this cycle of campaigns, though? not so much. 
which is why this election still allows my imagi­nation to roam free over the possibility of some­thing that hasn’t happened for more than 100 years in the united states: a presidential election with four tickets. 
The last time this happened was in 1912, when woodrow wilson (democrat) won the presidency over Theodore roosevelt (progressive), william Taft (republican) and eugene debs (socialist). 
The thing about 1912, however, is that Taft and debs combined garnered a whopping eight of the total 531 electoral votes. well, more accurately, Taft nabbed eight while debs was completely shut out. 
in fact, 1860 was the last time the united states had a four-candidate race where at least three of the candidates were competitive (meaning re­ceived at least 10 percent of the electoral votes.) abraham lincoln (59.4 percent) won the election over John breckenridge (23.8), John bell (12.9) and stephen douglas (4.0). 
The only time in american history where four candidates all won more than 10 percent of the electoral votes? 1824, when John Quincy adams 
(32.2 percent) was elected over andrew Jackson (37.9), william crawford (15.7) and henry clay (14.2). and yes, adams was elected despite losing both the electoral and popular vote to Jackson. look it up. 
all of this can change in 2016, though. we liter­ally have a chance to witness a historical cycle of an already historical event. 
why? 

as with perhaps too many questions nowadays, the answer traces back to one man: donald Trump. well, and maybe a little bernie sanders, too. 
here’s the thing: if the republican party doesn’t nominate Trump as its presidential candidate, he might just run as a third-party ticket. 
actually, scratch that: why wouldn’t he, given what we’ve seen so far? 
so the republican vote would be split between Trump and the party’s candidate, meaning an easy win for the democratic nominee. 
except sanders has absolutely nothing to lose by running on his own ticket either. 
The man is 74 years old and will be 75 before this election finishes. he’ll be 79 before the 2020 elec­tion, one where there’s an incumbent president he’d have to defeat, which rarely works out well for the challengers in politics. 
sanders has a strong and loyal following and is gaining in the polls on clinton, who hasn’t ex­actly seized the moment like party officials surely hoped. 
combine that with a weakened republican side, and this might just be perfect scenario for a guy like sanders to ascend to the oval office. 
like i said before, i’m no politician. i have no horse in the race yet and still have a long way to go before i even think about betting on one. 
i just think it’d be one heck of a ride. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Is ‘relatable’ overrated? 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 
last semester, my writing professor forbade us from using the word “relatable” to describe each other’s work. i thought it was because the word was over­used, the same way i was forbidden to use the word “skillz” in seventh grade (“you’ve got mad skillz!”). but, after thinking about it, it’s really the idea behind it that’s overused. yet only in some contexts. 
as consumers of words and stories in literature, film, art, music and theater, our relationship with “relatability” is a difficult one, closely linked to our majority or minority status in american society. everyone wants — and deserves — to see characters with whom they can relate on a personal level. we want to see people who “feel” like us, what they look like and where they live and what they do. we want to see our situations and identities validated through the arts. For children especially, this is an exception­ally powerful role that books, movies, shows, songs and art exist to fill. 
but on the flipside, some people have a lot more characters who look and live like them than others. men, white people, thin people, normally abled peo­ple and young people. and while some roles require a certain look or lifestyle, many roles that could re­ally be anybody are by default filled with people who look very much the same and presumably come from similar backgrounds: usually male, usually white. so what message is that sending? prioritizing white people, straight people and men for most major char­acters reinforces divisions based on our differences, selecting who is more deserving of our support and understanding. less urgently but also concerningly, it also robs white or straight or male or all-of-the­above people from the invaluable experience of con­necting to popular characters that are different than themselves. 
reading a book or watching a movie forces us to empathize with the protagonist; it’s how we know whom to cheer for, and studies have shown that read­ing fiction — that is, stories — increases our empathy. so if we’re always cheering for the attractive white guy, if we’re always learning to relate to him, when do we learn to relate to others? when can we identify with characters of other genders, races, beliefs, and abilities? when can we put ourselves in their shoes? 
increasingly, people of color, women and lgbTQ people have been gaining more representation in literature and films like “selma,” “suffragette,” “race” and “The danish girl,” which bring to the forefront the histories of oppressed minorities kept out of the spotlight. This is a great thing. so next, what about movies where the protagonist’s race, gender, ability and sexuality aren’t the focus of the conflict? why can’t we see more black superheroes, woman warriors (wearing decent outfits, please), gay secret agents or wizards in wheelchairs? 

boys, particularly white boys, are widely excused from engaging with stories focusing on girls or people of color, while girls and people of color have little choice but to engage with stories about white boys. Think of popular franchises that have, unsur­prisingly, also dominated the film industry: “harry potter,” “percy Jackson,” “spiderman,” “superman,” “batman,” “The lord of the rings” — all focus­ing primarily on white boys and men. “The hunger games,” “The chronicles of narnia,” “Fifty shades of grey,” “divergent,” “game of Thrones” — all focusing on white people. where are the movies for ursula le guin’s “earthsea cycle,” where the protagonists are mostly people of color? where is the wide readership and subsequent film adaptations for octavia butler’s 
— a woman author of color — science fiction and fan­tasy novels? 
it’s not that “white dude” books and movies aren’t worthwhile for everyone (i’m a born-and-bred potterhead and a devoted Tolkien fan myself). The point is: it’s important for underrepresented mi­norities — which includes women — to be more represented so they too can ”relate” to popular and academic culture, feel included, feel valued and see themselves as part of the movement. it’s also im­portant for “majorities” to not rely on relatability to judge the worth and value of a story. we who are used to seeing ourselves projected on screens and book covers don’t need to feel distanced by characters of different races, genders, ethnicities, ages, abilities or orientations. To enjoy a story we don’t need to fully re­late to the protagonist, especially in terms of appear­ance; we just need to sympathize with him or her. 
That’s when stories are at their full power: when, through them, we come to understand people who are different than us, without judgment, without dis­tance, without distinction. we come to respect them and to see them as the norm too, not just “us.” 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The world, unfortunately, rarely matches to our hopes and consistently refuses to behave in a reasonable manner.” 
Stephen Jay Gould Paleontologist, evolutionary biologist and historian 



My friend the Carmelite 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

This fall, a friend began her life as a carmelite nun. becoming a cloistered nun is, in a way, like choosing your death. Though she’s just reached her mid-twenties, i may never see or hear from her again. she can only receive visitors a year after her entrance, six years after, and 25 and 50 after. in between, time stops, and our last contact gives a final imprint, our lasting memory of each other. 
it’s hard to understand the life’s work of someone who has chosen to close herself off from society. i have work to do everyday and constant cares and concerns. she lives in silence and prayer. 
i made a small request of her when she joined, a prayer intention that was very important to me at the time. That intention now plays a different role in my life, but for her it will always be the same. if i never see her again, her memory of me will always be bound up with that prayer. 
in a way, that makes her more honest than me. she remembers me better than i remember myself. earthly life can be fickle. as our circumstances change, we come up with all kinds of excuses for forgetting the things that were once important to us. we feel the weight of the world and the desire to constantly pursue the novel, and the old falls aside as part of a past life. but that old thing that i’ve given her will be always be present with her prayers for me. 
i hope i can love like her. all she has now is her silence and her prayer. she’s given up everything else for them. so when she prays for me, she gives me everything that she has. everything is affixed to a religious promise made at barely 25. 
i suppose it’s easy to romanticize her life. i won­der if there are days that she regrets her decision, as she’s holed up in the carmel. i’m sure she won­ders what life is like outside, with the coffee shop conversations and careers and her family. 
i have access to countless books, lectures, and courses, but i suspect that she has learned long be­fore me one of the greatest lessons of ancient phi­losophy: the things that truly exist are the things that last. you love what you loved. i think often of the promise that spouses make at their wedding: to have and to hold for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do us part. i wonder what this promise means after a couple divorces. The test of the promise, like the test of all promises, is life. The answer to whether we meant what we said can only be the answer to whether we mean what we said. 
That’s why i have two questions when my friends’ significant others say things like, “i love you” or “i want to spend the rest of my life with you.” i want to know whether that person has said those things before and, if so, what those words mean to them now. it’s a question of honesty, in­tegrity and philosophy. were they the simple vows of a novice or solemn vows for a lifetime? and should you be bound by your folly when you meant the latter at the time and wished the former later? 
a philosophy professor once remarked that you’re old enough to marry when you’re old enough to be in love. This seems silly, and we’re left wondering whether we’d be better off with the marriage arrangements of Thomas more’s “utopia,” in which a couple is presented naked to each other prior to marriage. Those of utopia “wondered at the folly of mankind in all other countries; who, if they buy but an inferior horse, examine him all over and take off his trappings; yet a wife, on whom dependeth the happiness of the remainder of life, they take upon trust, regard­ing only her face, and leaving the rest of her body covered, where contagious and loathsome disor­ders may lie concealed.” similar tests of “sexual compatibility” and cohabitation mark the realism of contemporary life. and perhaps more’s utopia, which prohibits divorce, is less honest than mod­ern life, which is aware that deformities can take years to uncover. 

i don’t think my friend the carmelite is a realist, in the modern sense. she fell in love and made a choice. in a few years, she’ll make her final vows. and setting aside all possibilities of future contin­gencies, the vow takes the horse as it is. she focus­es on eternity and prays for lasting things. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence 
J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
elbel for everyone 
Rebecca O’Neil 
guest columnist 

after living for three years on the notre dame-saint mary’s campuses with their manicured lawns, my un-adventured eyes hadn’t yet seen the wonders that the true south bend has to offer. my move off campus senior year engendered apprecia­tion for new kinds of green space as i found it: crab­grass persevering through concrete, my house’s garden and overgrown empty lots. 
Then, as director of a nonprofit dedicated to facilitating urban youths’ engagement in the out­doors, my inclination to seek “green” became much more intentional. mentors from notre dame and saint mary’s took adolescents from the robinson community learning center and la casa de amistad to Juday creek to help researchers iden­tify kinds of life there that may indicate the creek’s toxicity. my nonprofit’s mission reflects the white house’s youth initiative every kid in a park. The national park Foundation is providing free passes for 4th graders across the country through the 2015­2016 school year. 
That said, it seems odd that the city of south bend intends to sell 332 acres — a quarter of the city’s parkland — for $747,500. The buyers of elbel park golf course, who are most certainly developers, will evade paying the additional half-million ($1.29 million in total) by delaying new home construc­tion on that property for five years and purchasing the land as a golf course. The proceeds are intended to “support other parks functions, as outlined in a five-year, $36 million master plan,” the south bend Tribune reported wednesday. This “master plan” seems to take little interest in merely preserving the land it intends to maintain. 
what the city doesn’t realize about the south bend parks and recreation’s sacrificial lamb is that elbel is worth far more than what it is selling for (which, by the way, isn’t even enough to run south bend for a day). The environmental, social and educational value the park has certainly su­persedes any — but particularly, its estimated — financial value. The park boasts rolling wetland, state-endangered species and a skyline touched by sycamore, beech, oak, dogwood and ash trees. before it was taken down, the elbel park’s website claimed that the appeal of this 18-hole golf course “designed with the natural beauty of mud lake in mind” was that it “blends perfectly with the sur­rounding landscape of farm land, wooded areas and water.” The un-groomed wetland along the park’s borders are federally owned and protected by the environmental protection agency. The land next to mud lake will not receive such preferential treatment without the intervention of south bend’s citizens. 
The rebirth of south bend that began under the guidance of mayor pete buttigieg will undoubt­edly include more initiatives to beautify the region. before the makeover continues, it is important to revere the assets we already have. a study conducted by the landscape and human health laboratory at the university of illinois showed that more green space is correlated to less domestic vio­lence in cities. in a city that struggles with crime, the commodification of such a space seems unfath­omable. a study from the university of sheffield, england found that “psychological benefits of greenspace increase with biodiversity.” 

The for-profit ownership of elbel will likely hin­der public access and inhibit environmental ac­countability. while the public maintains access and a say in the park’s future, i urge students to visit elbel, to make a leap for underclass-kind and venture into south bend — its urban areas and beyond. 
i encourage constituents of notre dame and saint mary’s who live on and off campus to engage. Those who regard public access and ecological responsi­bility as invaluable can tweet using the hashtags #ivalueelbel or #dontpawnourparkspete. if those reading are interested in dialogue with other resi­dents of south bend as well as their representatives regarding the privatization of elbel please attend a common council meeting monday at 3:30 p.m. at 227 west Jefferson boulevard in south bend. if you are interested in other events surrounding this is­sue “like” elbel for everyone’s Facebook page. 
Rebecca O’Neil is a 2015 graduate of Saint Mary’s College. She can be reached at roneil01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By JACK ROONEY 
managing editor 

life as an on-campus senior is great. i get all the ben­efits of living close to my classes, meetings and most es­pecially the dining hall (not having to cook for yourself is particularly clutch). most of these benefits involve more sleep and less travel time, especially when the weather is as bitterly cold as it is now (full disclosure: if i lived off campus, i probably just wouldn’t have gone to class this week). 
life as an on-campus senior is also awful. living on campus means i live farther away from a lot of my friends. and, as an adult, i have to endure one last year of parietals, and some on my fellow on-campus seniors may very well sleep in a bunk bed as a 22-year-old. 
and, although i do not have to cook for myself, i of­ten end up eating alone in the dining hall because none of my on-campus friends are available and none of my off-campus friends have meal plans. i don’t mind it too much, but i’ve missed being able to walk down the hall­way and instantly find five people to eat lunch with. 
but now there’s an app for that. down to lunch, or dTl for short, exploded onto notre dame’s campus at the be­ginning of the semester. it’s the latest place the app has taken off since stanford computer science grads Joe lau and nikil viswanathan developed it last may. 
The app allows users to notify other friends who have 
By DAKOTA CONNELL-LEDWON 
scene writer 

panic! at The disco’s fifth studio album, “death of a bachelor,” dropped Jan. 15, and it packs a punch. an in­consistent punch, but a punch nonetheless. 
in an interview with alt 98.7, vocalist brendon urie told the station that the new album would be “this mix be­tween sinatra and Queen, if that makes any sense.” 
it doesn’t. There are certainly songs reminiscent of sinatra, such as “impossible year” and the titular “death of a bachelor,” but Queen’s influence —a s well as the op­eratic rock present on panic!’s previous albums — seems to be absent. 
“house of memories” and “golden days” are both bland and unremarkable, and urie’s talent is wasted on the sing-songy “victorious.” while it’s an upbeat start to the album, the chorus “Tonight we are victorious / champagne pouring over us / all my friends were glori­ous / Tonight we are victorious” is trite. 
however, there are several standouts on the album that warrant a listen. 
panic!’s strength lies in their vaudeville-inspired spooky pop sound, furthered by brendon urie’s power­ful voice. This compelling combination is most evident in “emperor’s new clothes,” a chilling account that embodies the lyrics, “i’m taking back the crown,” in its the app when they are free to get a meal, chill, go out, study, get coffee or join in on a host of other activities. based on notre dame user feedback, you can now let others know when you are “down to Feve” and “down to mass.” 
when i spoke with lau and viswanathan over the phone wednesday, the san Francisco-based friends said notre dame is one of the first places where they have started integrating user responses. 
“we had a ton of people texting asking for down To Feve,” viswanathan said. “at first we thought it was a joke and after talking to a bunch of really friendly students we realized it was legit and added it.” 
users can also makes lists of friends within the app to notify only certain people when they are free. For in­stance, i have an “on-campus friends” list i use when i am looking for friends to eat with at the dining hall. when users tap the button that they are down to lunch, dinner, chill, etc., other friends get a notification on their phone and can text back if they are interested in joining. 
and while thousands of users across the coun­try and the world have downloaded the app, lau and viswanathan said it began as a simple way for them to re­connect with friends in san Francisco, and provided an alternative to sending blast text messages to make plans with large groups. 
“we had the idea one sunday afternoon and just built it for fun,” viswanathan said. “it was just a side project until 
execution. 
The track was released as a single before the album re­lease, accompanied by a disturbing music video featur­ing a half-naked urie falling from “heaven” and sprouting wings, horns and a gargoyle-esque chin. skeletons sing a few verses in the background, because what would panic! at the disco be without their tendency to tread the line between weird and cheesy? 
The song itself makes use of urie’s incredible range in low, quiet verses and an aggressive, self-assured chorus. at one point in the music video, urie spreads his (literal) wings and lets out a falsetto note so high you might won­der if you’re in heaven after all. 
The title track, “death of a bachelor,” showcases urie’s strong vocals as he channels sinatra to both mourn and celebrate the end of single life: “i’m walking the long road, watching the sky fall / The lace in your dress tangles my neck, how do i live?” he croons. 
The jazzy “death of a bachelor” is accompanied by an equally slick black and white music video where urie ser­enades an empty room with his falsetto. The video has over 5 million views. 
The rest of the album includes “crazy=genius,” anoth­er throwback to panic!’s jazz phase, and the melancholy “impossible year.” it’s not panic!’s best, but it’s certainly not their worst. 
“heroes always get remembered / but you know legends it blew up.” before the app took off at notre dame, lau said students at the university of georgia, university of connecticut and vanderbilt began using the app widely. 

lau and viswanathan said they still run the app from their apartment by themselves. app users have the op­tion to “Talk to Team dTl,” which directly connects them with the two founders on their personal cell phones, and the pair said they receive between 3,000 and 5,000 texts a day. 
some of my friends at notre dame have criticized the app, saying it’s no different than a group text or that they don’t understand the need for a whole app dedicated to the premise, but these critics appear to be in the minor­ity. lau and viswanathan said within 10 to 12 hours of the app popping up at notre dame, 15 percent of the school had downloaded it. 
“more than 15 percent of notre dame got it in less than a day. it was nuts,” viswanathan said of the rapid spread at notre dame, a growth that occurred despite the fact that he and viswanathan said they have not done any marketing or promotion for the app anywhere. and while they said they don’t know exactly where the app will go from here, they said they remain dedicated to interact­ing with users and incorporating their ideas into dTl. so, notre dame dTl users, look out for a “down to club hes” option coming soon. 
Contact Jack Rooney at jrooney1@nd.edu 
never die,” urie growls in “emperor’s new clothes.” This is certainly true of panic!, or maybe just urie. The band has been around since 2004, when childhood friends ryan ross, spencer smith, brent wilson and brendon urie began recording demos. 
urie is the only original band member remaining. in fact, he’s the only person on the band’s official lineup. he sings, plays lead guitar, bass guitar, keyboard, piano, percussion and synthesizer — a one-man show definitely worthy of being called a legend. despite the loss of his fellow band members, urie has persevered: panic! at the disco will be touring with weezer this summer and they created an album with a few great songs. 
Contact Dakota Connell-Ledwon at                               dconnel5@nd.edu 
“Death of a Bachelor” 
Panic! At The Disco 
Label: DCD2 / Fueled By Ramen Reccomded If You Like: Paramore, Fall Out Boy Reccomended Track: “Emperor’s New Clothes” 


LUCY DU | The Observer 


Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 

oscar isaac deserved to be nominated for an academy award this year. and no, i’m not talking about his work on the excellent new star wars movie as poe dameron. i’m talking about his excellent acting in april’s “ex machina,” a riveting sci-fi film that takes inspiration from the best the genre has to offer. 
“ex machina” tells the story of caleb smith (domnhall gleeson), a programmer who gets invited on a week-long visit to the secluded estate of nathan bateman (oscar isaac), the billionaire ceo of the software company that caleb works for. upon caleb’s arrival, nathan tasks him with giving a Turing test to his latest breakthrough: a hyper-intelligent and incred­ibly complex artificial intelligence named eva (alicia vikander). 
as caleb explores the extent of eva’s ability to repli­cate human behavior, he also learns more of her mys­terious and reclusive creator. isaac’s nathan is equal parts charming and intimidating, just as determined as he is reckless. behind his thin-framed dad glasses and thick, black beard is a complex man who repre­sents the worst of what silicon valley has to offer. 
by day, nathan is a relentless figure who pushes caleb to probe his creation’s and his own humanity. by night, he throws caution to the wind, abusively drink­ing and slowly letting caleb in on the secrets behind eva. and then he wakes up, works out, and starts the process all over again. 
he’s totally believable on every level – the embodi­ment of the swaggering, narcissistic tech billionaire. sarcastic, quick witted, charismatic and unbelievably egotistical, oscar isaac’s nathan captures and satirizes the titans who rule over silicon valley. 
plus, he can dance. in the middle of this menacing and moody film, we get something unexpected: the now famous choreographed dance sequence. in this scene, nathan and his assistant kyoko break it down to the grooves of “get down saturday night” set to some far-out disco lighting. isaac seamlessly transitions from dangerous drunk to disco master to relieve the tension that had been escalating since the opening credits and manages to unnerve caleb in the process. 
like the dance scene, all interactions between caleb and nathan are engaging and intriguing. over the course of the film, nathan’s narcissistic disregard to­ward and belittling of caleb slowly becomes more ap­parent and ultimately becomes his downfall. 

in the amazing, final, Frakenstein-esque sequence after caleb helps free eva, isaac’s nathan is murdered by his monster. Tellingly, nathan’s reaction isn’t one of anger but amazement. he’s proud of eva’s capac­ity for manipulation and cunning; more importantly, he’s proud of himself for creating her. even in his dying breaths, nathan is still only concerned with his own achievement and intellect. 
oscar isaac’s portrayal of tech billionaire nathan was more subtle and nuanced than the other roles that make up the list of best supporting actors this year, but he absolutely nails the little traits that make this char­acter great. his alternately restrained and bold acting forces viewers to question the titans of silicon valley who have elevated humanity to supposedly godlike sta­tus. he’s sharp, subtle and scary, and his performance certainly among the best that this year had to offer. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



FLING BY SPRING | riley  mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: Take money matters seriously and you will avoid a loss. helping others will prove to be costly and less rewarding than anticipated. Try to focus on the options that will lead to your own prosperity, good health and future prospects. This is a year to build and secure your position, reputation and your life. your numbers are 4, 11, 23, 25, 33, 37, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): express what you want through your actions, not your words. you will make the best impression if you are progressive and precise. someone you love will appreciate a romantic gesture or surprise. a commitment from the heart looks promising. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): you can make a strategic move that will influence your position, status or reputation. speak your mind and don’t be afraid to use a little pressure to get others on board. you will make a difference if you are bold. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): emotional issues are best resolved quickly. if you sit around ignoring what’s going on around you, matters will escalate. don’t follow what other people do if it isn’t what’s best for you. love can be deceptive. Try to assess your motives. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you can make a significant lifestyle change that will improve your quality of life, lower your stress and add to your enthusiasm. get out and do the things you enjoy most with the people who bring you joy. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): initiate change instead of waiting to see what happens. don’t expect to please everyone. your concern should be that you are true to yourself and your beliefs. Time spent with family and friends will be enlightening. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take care of domestic responsibilities before moving on to interesting pastimes with people who stimulate you. an unusual connection will be made if you attend a function that encourages networking. you have a tendency to be indulgent. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): plan a trip or make time for a little romance. an update to your image, appearance or to your fitness routine will bring good results. don’t let someone’s disgruntled attitude bring you down. bring about a positive lifestyle change. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): sign up for an activity or event that will motivate you to try something new and exciting. a unique change to the way you live will spark an original plan that will be conducive to working from home. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t lose sight of your goals. if you need to, pick up additional skills, but don’t overload your plate. Take one step at a time, and try to do things right the first time rather than getting in a hurry to complete your work.   


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): stick to what you know and do the best job possible. don’t be concerned with someone’s unpredictable nature. do your own thing and focus on getting ahead. keep your personal life a secret to avoid rumors. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take care of matters concerning parents or children. your help will be appreciated and make you feel good as well. romance is on the rise, and a pick-me-up that you can share with someone you love will bring you closer together. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): a partnership with someone who shares your beliefs or concerns will help you reach your objectives. look for donations that will make it easier to reach your goal. don’t let an emotional matter stifle your productivity. 


Birthday Baby: you are generous, creative and helpful. you are open and resourceful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

ESPN finally embraces esports 
Marek Mazurek 
sports writer 
oct. 13 of last year, i wrote a column that argued for a greater respect for esports in our culture. 
Thus, i was happy when espn recently included es-ports as part of its sports coverage. 
now, when you go to espn there is an “esports” tab just as there is one for the nFl, the nba or any other “tradi­tional” sport. 
setting aside the discus­sion of whether or not es-ports should be considered sports in the traditional sense, espn made an incred­ibly smart move by choosing to cover esports. 
For a traditional sports outlet like espn, esports fans are the textbook defini­tion of an untapped mar­ket. esports matches are televised live on sites such as Twitch, and in south korea, league of legends matches are shown on net­work television. last year’s league of legends world championship between samsung white and royal gaming drew 27 million viewers worldwide. For com­parison, only 23.5 million tuned in for game 7 of the 2014 world series between the san Francisco giants and the kansas city royals and 18 million watched the san antonio spurs topple the miami heat in the nba Finals. 
where did i find that sta­tistic? espn. 
The 2013 world champion­ships sold out the staples center in los angeles, and the number of esports play­ers is steadily growing. according to the creator of league of legends, riot games, the game has in­creased from 32 million players monthly in 2012 to 67 million in 2014. 
clearly esports has a huge following, not just in the u.s. but all around the world. and as the first traditional sports news site to cover esports, espn will undoubt­edly gain readers. many es-ports enthusiasts will turn to espn to get their esports coverage in the same place as they get coverage of their traditional sports. and many more traditional sports fans will check out espn’s cov­erage of esports just to see what the fuss is about. 
esports also fits in nicely with espn’s fan-centered, interactive content. league of legends recently started a “fantasy” league challenger series (lcs) system that works much like the fantasy football most traditional sports fans are familiar with. 
esports is also highly sta­tistically driven, something espn loves, and comes rife with offseason drama with players changing teams frequently. additionally, esports is divided by geo­graphic regions, which cre­ates debates as to which region(s) are superior, much like the conference system in college football. all of this creates content for espn in the form of fantasy cheat sheets, power rankings and offseason updates. 
however, the best part of espn’s decision to cover esports is the look of dumb­founded disgust that graced sports broadcaster colin cowherd’s face when he heard the news. For those new to the subject, cowherd said that if he were ever forced to cover esports, he would quit. cowherd is no longer with espn so he can­not quit the network, but it would have been enjoyable to see closed-minded people like him when arguably the most influential sports net­work in the u.s. decided it would move into the 21st century and cover a sport that deserves coverage. 
i commend espn for its decision to cover esports. it is a win-win scenario and hopefully espn’s example will pave the way for esports’ acceptance in american sports culture. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NBA | warriors 125, bulls 94 

warriors inch closer to history after win over bulls 
Associated Press 
chicago — stephen curry glanced at the “72” banner hanging from the rafters during the morn­ing shootaround. a number that for two decades seemed unattainable just might be in reach for the warriors if they keep playing this way. 
curry scored 25 points, and golden state made it look easy again, beating the chicago bulls 125-94 on wednesday night. 
curry tied a season high with 11 of his team’s 38 as­sists and grabbed seven rebounds. 
klay Thompson added 20 points. harrison barnes scored 19, and the de­fending champions sim­ply outclassed chicago after embarrassing lebron James and the cavaliers in cleveland on monday night. 
That’s two straight domi­nant wins over two of the eastern conference’s top teams after losing at detroit and dropping two of three. 
“good teams bounce back quick and we were able to do that,” curry said. “it says a lot about our resiliency.” 
The warriors are more than just a good team. They’re a team that set a league record with a 24-0 start. and they’re a team that could challenge the single-season mark of 72 wins set by the 1995-96 bulls. 
“i feel like we kind of have that chip back on our shoul­ders,” draymond green said. “it kind of fell off a little bit.” 
The warriors built a big lead in the first quarter and never were threatened af­ter that, improving their league-best road record to 20-4. 
derrick rose scored 29 and Jimmy butler added 

FOR RENT 
COMMENCEMENT RENTAL 
-PRIME LOCATION: 3BR house next to Eddy Street Commons is available for commencement week­end. Walk to everything. Email nd-house@sbcglobal.net for details and contact number. 
Home for Rent, avail. 2016­2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact
 jlafleur@gmail.com 

23 points after a slow start for chicago. pau gasol was a nonfactor with one point and the bulls missed 19 of 20 3-pointers on the way to their fifth loss in seven games. 
“it’s embarrassing,” rose said. “we stopped commu­nicating while we were out there. you could easily tell there was no communica­tion on both sides of the ball. The only thing we can do from it is learn.” 
Strong Start 

Two nights after they pounded cleveland in the arena where they captured the championship last spring, the warriors wasted little time seizing control in this one. 
playing in the shadows of that “72” banner, they con­tinued their assault on the mark. 
golden state was trailing by one midway through the first quarter when a cutting curry converted a three-point play. rose, who com­mitted the foul, got subbed out after a strong start. and in a flash, the warriors broke this one open. 
They were up 34-18 going into the second and led by as many as 21 before head­ing to the locker room with a 63-44 cushion. 
curry had 15 points and seven assists in the half. barnes scored 11 and the warriors simply put on a clinic in ball movement that led to 30 points in the paint. 
rose scored 21 for chicago, but the rest of the team combined for just 23 points in the half. The num­
bers barely  describe  how  
one-sided this was.  
There  were  comical  mo­ 

ments like when chicago’s e’Twaun moore crashed to the floor in the first quar­ter trying to defend a cross­over by curry, who buried a 19-foot jumper. There was a neat pass from shaun livingston to leandro barbosa for a reverse la­yup that made it 41-20 early in the second. There was also a somewhat scary moment when the bulls’ aaron brooks tripped rose, sending him into curry as they raced out to defend a 3-point attempt from the corner with 4:28 left in the half. 
Honoring Bach 
The bulls held a moment of silence before the game for longtime nba and col­lege coach John bach, who died this week at age 91. 
The funeral was wednesday, and hoiberg and his staff attended as well as golden state coach steve kerr and assistant ron adams. 
bach’s defensive exper­tise as an assistant to phil Jackson helped the bulls win three nba titles from 1991 to 1993. he was the head coach of the golden state warriors from 1983-86 before joining the bulls as an assistant. 
Tip-ins 
warriors: green said he was fine after taking a shot to the face from chicago’s Taj gibson early in the third quarter. he returned to the game in the fourth 
bulls: coach Fred hoiberg said c Joakim noah is “in great spirits” after hav­ing what could be season-ending surgery to repair his dislocated left shoulder on Tuesday. he said noah hopes to rejoin the team this weekend, although he is not sure when and where he will rehab. cornhuskers a 68-62 lead. 
Up Next 
warriors: host indiana on Friday. 
bulls: visit boston on Friday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
is provided; start date May 28, 2016. For more information and an 

SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: online application visit www.cam-Secure your summer job! Camp pranchoframasa.org Questions? Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, angi@campranchoframasa.org residential camp, located in south central Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 
WANTED PERSONAL 

1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 18 in various programs. We offer a wel­coming staff community in a beauti-Want a pro to help edit/polish ful outdoor setting. General Staff, your dissertation or other research Counselor Manager, Adventure, paper? Utilize an experienced editor Challenge Course Counselor, with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Wrangler positions available. All po-Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or sitions start at $250/week. Training email ajhughes71@gmail.com 

The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish prepare for ITA tournament 
By Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
notre dame travels to the iTa kickoff weekend Tournament at greenwood Tennis center in stillwater, oklahoma, this weekend to continue early-season action. 
The irish play the home team, 12th-ranked oklahoma state, on saturday and then either 26th-ranked northwestern or arizona state on sunday. irish head coach Jay louderback said he expects the competition at the upcoming tournament to be tough. 
“oklahoma state has a very strong singles lineup so we need to be ready to play great singles. i feel like our doubles combinations are very good so we will focus on our sin­gles,” louderback said. 
The irish got their spring season started Tuesday night with a dominating 7-0 win over western michigan at eck Tennis pavilion. The irish won all matches in the event as junior mary closs, sophomore allison miller, senior Quinn gleason, se­nior Julie vrabel and sopho­more brooke broda won their singles matches in straight-sets. Junior monica robinson won her match in three sets. The doubles teams of broda/ miller, closs/Fennelly and gleason/robinson picked up wins in the doubles competition for the irish. 
louderback said he be­lieves finishing the first match allows his team to fo­cus on the future. 
“i think getting the first match jitters out of the way will help us as we prepare for this upcoming weekend,” louderback said. “i was very happy with our doubles, and the way we handled our ser­vice games. we didn’t lose our serve in any of the dou­bles, which is such a key in winning the doubles point.” 
oklahoma state comes into the tournament with a 3-0 record which includes wins over adeline christian, oral roberts and wyoming. northwestern’s last event was a dual-meet that included wins over players from 15th­ranked alabama and no. 22 Tcu. arizona state enters the kickoff weekend after par­ticipating in their first spring meet of the season, the palm springs invite, last Friday. 
louderback reiterated that the opponents his team faces this weekend are going to be prepared for the irish, and his team needs to be pre­pared for them. 
“all three teams are very good teams that don’t beat themselves so we have to look to be aggressive and fin­ish points and not wait for them to miss.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 


NCAAM | nebraska 72, michigan sTaTe 71 

Michigan State loses third consecutive game 
Associated Press 
easT lansing, mich. — shavon shields scored 28 points, playing through hip pain, and denzel valentine missed a shot just before the buzzer to allow nebraska to hold on for a 72-71 win over no. 11 michigan state on wednesday night. 
The cornhuskers (12­8, 4-3 big Ten) have won four straight, three on the road. They’ve also won three straight against the spartans. 
michigan state (17-4, 3-4) has lost three straight and suddenly looks nothing like the top-ranked team it was earlier in the season. 
shields, who left the game with a hip injury in the first half and came back to play after halftime, made a shot to put nebraska ahead by eight points with 2:31 left. 
The spartans pulled within two with 45.8 sec­onds to go when eron harris connected on a 3-pointer. shields made a floater over valentine on the ensu­ing possession. valentine’s 3-pointer with 5.2 seconds left cut the deficit to one point, but he couldn’t make one more shot to win for a second straight game. The senior guard didn’t connect on a jumper to that could’ve given michigan state a win sunday at wisconsin. 

valentine finished with 24 points, six rebounds and six assists. deyonta davis had 13 points and seven points for the spartans, who made just 42 percent of their shots and let nebraska make half of it attempts. 
nebraska’s glynn watson scored 13 and Tai webster had 10 points and missed a free throw with four sec­onds left that gave the spartans an opportunity to avoid another loss, but they couldn’t make the most of the opportunity. 
Tip-ins 

nebraska: The cornhuskers got some rela­tively good news at halftime when shields was cleared to return to the game. The senior forward hurt his hip with four-plus minutes left in the first half, and had to be helped off the court as he kept weight off his right foot. shields showed he was healthy in the second half, making a pair of go-ahead baskets in the opening 
paid adverTisemenT 
minute. midway through the second half, he had his right hip stretched on the side­line before going back in the game slightly hobbled. The next time nebraska had the ball, he scored a three-play play on a driving layup and free throw to put nebraska ahead 64-56 with eight-plus minutes left. shields left the game again, briefly, to get his hip stretched before go­ing back on the court. 
michigan state: The spartans are struggling in part because bryn Forbes has lost his shooting touch, especially at home. he was 1 of 8 against nebraska and scored three points, one home game after going 0 for 5 and scoring just two points in a 17-point loss to iowa. Forbes had a chance to pull michigan state within a point, but missed an open 3-pointer with just less than three minutes left. shields made a shot on the ensuing possession to give the cornhuskers a 68-62 lead. 
nebraska hosts michigan on saturday. 




FENCING 

Notre Dame prepares for road trip 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
notre dame travels to Queens, new york, to take the strip in the st. John’s duels and the nyu invitational on saturday and sunday, respectively. 
This past weekend, the no. 1 women’s (5-0) and no. 2 men’s (4-1) squads hosted five varsity teams and nine club teams in the decicco duels. both teams swept the strip in a weekend that saw starters and reserves com­pete for the irish. 
“it’s like restarting the en­gine,” irish head coach gia kvaratskhelia said. “i felt like we needed to get togeth­er as a cohesive unit before we hit the road and face the toughest competition of the year.” 
The two duels will fea­ture five of the current top-eight teams on the women’s side and six of the current top-seven teams on the men’s side according to the collegeFencing360.com coaches’ poll. 
at the st. John’s duels on saturday, the irish face st. John’s, penn state, ohio state, harvard and columbia, the defending men’s and women’s na­tional champions. Then, on sunday, nyu and yale replace harvard and penn state in the field. 
given the strength of the competition, kvaratskhelia said this weekend will be a measuring stick for his teams as they work to­wards their goal of an ncaa championship. 
“This is usually a state­ment competition,” kvaratskhelia said. “usually, the teams that perform well at those two duel meets end up in a very desirable spot at the [ncaa championships]. so we’re going to gauge, at the end of this tournament, where we are at and what ad­justments we have to make to get to the top at the end of the season.” 
additionally, the duels will also allow kvaratskhelia to see how the team handles top competition without several of its best fencers, who have taken the year off to train for the olympics, he said. it is a test the team has not truly faced up to this point in the year. 
“This year is really special for us and unusual for us be­cause it is an olympic year,” kvaratskhelia said. “Three of our top athletes, potential ncaa winners, are taking the year off to train for rio. we’re going to miss them a lot, and having that caliber of athletes absent will have an effect on us, but our re­cruiting classes have been good and our returning ath­letes are strong, so we are hopeful that we will live up to the expectations of our fans.” 
after watching both 
paid adverTisemenT 


starters and reserves com­pete this past weekend, kvaratskhelia said the final lineups are far from set in stone, as the members of the team will continue to fight for their spots in the final lineup that goes to the ncaa midwest regional qualifier over the next few weeks. 
“i think it’s always a tin­kering until we get to the end,” kvaratskhelia said. “we have a lot of talented athletes, and they’re trying to find a place on the team to qualify and get a foothold on the squad that will go to the regional qualifiers.” 
kvaratskhelia said there will be a few athletes he will be following closely to see where they are at this point in the season and how they react to the competition. 
“we have a defending ncaa champion, [sopho­more sabreuse] Francesca russo, who is a second-year starter for our women’s team,” kvaratskhelia said. “a few freshmen too: [sa­breuse] Tara hassett, [men’s foilist] axel kiefer, [women’s foilist] sabrina massialas, and [men’s epeeist] dylan French. Those are a few heavily recruited athletes who are promising fencers for us. it will be good to see how the freshman react.” 
The irish will begin with the st. John’s duels on saturday before finishing the weekend with the nyu invitational on sunday. both duels will take place at st. John’s arena in Queens, new york. champaign, illinois. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
open man. ... i’m a point guard, so just trying to create, whether it’s for myself or somebody else.” Jackson hit another layup with 
2:06 to play, but hokies redshirt junior forward Zach leday an­swered with two free throws to cut the lead back to one. 
The advantage grew to four 
— notre dame’s largest lead of the night — when Zach auguste, the senior forward, drove the lane for a vicious dunk, put­ting the irish up 81-77 with 1:38 left. brey praised the leadership of auguste, who finished with 22 points and a career-high 15 rebounds. 
“i really have liked how he’s led,” brey said. “he has taken responsibility to kinda talk to guys. he was great at halftime, and it was a frustrating halftime. and he was great throughout the second half, kinda being a calm­ing guy and talking positively to guys, and i give him a lot of credit there. he really wanted it for his team, and he went and got it off the backboard to do it.” 
Two free throws from hokies redshirt junior guard brandon allen cut the margin back to two before junior guard vasturia drove for the bucket to restore notre dame’s four-point advan­tage. a leday layup on the next possession cut the lead to 83-81, but Jackson couldn’t close the game out for the irish on the next trip down the floor, missing as the shot clock wound down. 
it gave allen, who finished with 20 points on the night, and the hokies one last chance — but the guard’s 3-point attempt at the buzzer rimmed out, mov­ing the irish to 4-2 in league play and giving them a third straight victory. 
“i’m very proud of our group to do some really tough stuff to escape with a win because it was one of those escapes in league play, and we’re thrilled to be 4-2, and we’re fortunate to be 4-2,” brey said. 
The irish head coach praised the play of his three captains wednesday, each of whom fin­ished in double digits against the hokies. 
“i thought demetrius and steve were fabulous just driv­ing at key times after we moved it a little bit,” brey said. “Zach auguste was unbelivable. he was a force, he was all over the place, and that’s two games in a row he’s made two big free throws. i think that’s growth for him.” 
For the majority of the open­ing 20 minutes, it was a tight, back-and-forth affair. but after the irish took a 32-31 lead with 
4:05 left in the half, virginia Tech opened the first significant run of the game to seize an eight-point lead at the half. an 11-1 hokies run was thwarted by a quick 4-0 spurt from the irish to cut the lead to four, but Jackson fouled allen while the latter was heaving a half-court shot at the buzzer, handing virginia Tech three more points and a 45-37 lead headed into the break. 
changes were necessary for the irish in the second half, auguste said, to keep the hokies from putting up 90; virginia Tech scored all of its first-half points in the paint, behind the arc or at the free-throw line. 
“we had to lock in more de­fensively [in the second half],” auguste said. “They’re a great team, obviously they got to the rim easily. we just had to adjust and that’s something that we did.” 
despite redoubled efforts from both the irish and the purcell pavilion crowd after a flat first half, notre dame wasn’t able to claw back and take the lead for most of the second half. big shots from sophomore forward bonzie colson, who scored 15 off the bench, and auguste aided the effort, but whenever notre dame pulled close — or even tied the game, as it did at 54-54 

— the hokies had a response. 
when vasturia hit five straight points to tie the game at 69-69, it seemed as though the irish would finally grab the lead: Junior forward v.J. beachem forced a steal on the ensuing hokies possession, taking it coast-to-coast for what would have been the go-ahead layup. he left it short though, and leday, who posted a joint-high 22, made the irish pay straight­away, hitting a 3-pointer to put the hokies back ahead. The irish tied the game once more at 73 before Jackson put them ahead for good at 76-75. 
“you’re gonna take some punches, but for us to be a great team, i think we’re making great strides and you’re gonna have to take some punches along the way,” vasturia said. “To win close games like this, at the end of the day, it doesn’t matter how you win ‘em — you gotta win.” 
notre dame goes for a fourth consecutive win saturday when it hosts last-placed boston college. Tipoff is set for noon at purcell pavilion. purcell pavilion. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 


Kathryne Robinson | The Observer 

Irish senior guard Steve Vasturia dribbles through the lane during an 83-81 victory over Virginia Tech on Wednesday at Purcell Pavilion.Vasturia had 14 points and two rebounds in the win. 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 

having lost to no. 5 maryland, no. 8 arizona state and Tennessee. 
despite that, the orange are still a very difficult matchup on paper for the irish. in particular, the orange defense combines press and zone defense to force turnovers at a high rate, as they have gotten opponents to give up the basketball more than 25 times a game. 
“They have got some great players — [senior guard] brianna butler [and redshirt junior guard] brittney sykes are two of the best that have come through and re­ally built the program,” mcgraw said. “i think [orange head coach Quentin hillsman] has done a good job in who he’s recruited and how they’re playing. They play to their strengths, and they play well defensively, and i think that they’re going to continue to get better.” 
on offense, butler has been one of the driving forces for the orange. she currently leads the nation in three-point attempts and is second in conversions, which could pose a problem for the irish. 
“she’s a tough matchup for us,” mcgraw said. “i think we re­ally have to know where she is all the time. it’s a kind of game where, if you’re in the zone, you have to know if she’s on your side of the floor. it’s going to take a lot of awareness from the team. Transition is going to be impor­tant, and just trying to find her as soon as the ball goes up.” 
in order to come away with a victory, the irish will need to play a complete game and continue to improve in their rebounding ef­forts, mcgraw said. 
“every game is critical,” mcgraw said. “we’ve got to win every game with a really good plan. we’ve got to be prepared, and we have to play our game. we can’t have any let up in inten­sity on the defensive end, which is where we’ve been improving the most. 
‘we’ve got to shoot the ball well. i think that’s important if [the orange] play zone, and then we’ve got to handle the press. They are the two big keys. rebounding is always a factor for us. That is something that we’re just not that good at right now and we need to get better at.” 
mcgraw said sophomore for­ward kathryn westbeld will be an important player for the irish on Thursday, as the team will lean on her to make smart decisions in the high post and facilitate of­fense against the zone. 
“i think [kathryn’s] a big factor for us because she has the ball a lot at the high post, so she’s got to make a lot of decisions, and she’s making really good decisions right now. she finally got out to the 3-point line and made a shot [against Tennessee], which is something she’s been working on all year long, so i was happy to see her do that.” 
additionally, the irish will be counting on freshmen guards arike ogunbowale and marina mabrey to continue to be aggres­sive and provide an offensive spark off the bench, mcgraw said. 
“our bench, with arike and marina coming in, they’re just instant offense,” mcgraw said. “They can come in, and it doesn’t matter. you can’t take away ev­eryone, so they have to pick and choose, and marina has been benefitting from the defense that [graduate student guard madison cable] is seeing. 
“Fearless is what i like to say, because they don’t care who we’re playing, they don’t care about anything. They’re gonna take the ball to the basket, they’re gonna get their shots, and they’re gonna really make things happen on offense.” 
The irish and the orange are set to tip at purcell pavilion on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 



Turner 
conTinued From page 16 
able to move my body while i’m blocking players’ shots, so i think just in practice, having really great teammates.” 
The irish have felt Turner’s impact on defense this sea­son, most especially in her absence. during the six games she missed due to a shoulder injury, notre dame allowed 
76.8 points on average. in the 12 games she has played, that number drops down to just 56.2. 
The same holds true for op­ponent field goal percentage. without Turner, opponents shot 45.8 percent. with her, just 35.8 percent. 
Then again, that percentage comes from players who actu­ally shoot when Turner’s pa­trolling the paint. 
“i think there’s people who don’t even attempt to shoot it when she’s there,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “i think she gives that pres­ence to our guards, so that if they get beat, they don’t have to worry as much, when they know she’s behind them. and i think she’s really been active, going to look for blocked shots, where i think in the past, she waited until the ball came her way, but now she’s really going out and trying to get them.” 

while her 6-foot-3 frame certainly helps Turner on the defensive end, mcgraw said it might not even be her best skill when she’s trying to get a hand on the ball. 
“she has great timing,” mcgraw said. “i think she’s a really quick jumper. [against Tennessee on monday] she went down on the break and missed a layup, and i think before it came off the rim, she was already back up to try to get it in again. Timing with her blocking shots. she really has great speed, quickness and agility. i think she can really move well.” 
mcgraw said one of the next steps in Turner’s development this season on defense has been extending her zone out of the paint to the perimeter, where she has to adapt her playing style to guarding more agile ball handlers. 
“definitely i would have to say stay lower because the guards are just so quick, and i really have to be quick with my feet because in the post, i mean, you can kind of play more straight up and push more, but on the wing, you re­ally have to keep your hands off and be really fundamen­tal,” Turner said. 
her 130 career blocked shots, totaled in less than two com­plete seasons, have already put her in the top 10 in that category in program history, and it’s the player who sits at the top of that list, former irish great ruth riley, who has been helping Turner in her develop­ment of “every single aspect” of the game along the way. 
“she’s been here, done this. it’s just great to learn from ruth,” Turner said. “she’s just such a great person to be around on and off the court, so i just love learning from her.” 
mcgraw compared Turner’s impact on defense to what riley and former forward devereaux peters did for the irish in their time at notre dame, but added Turner’s play on defense can still take her by surprise. 
“it does,” she said. “ … some of them, she comes out of no­where, and she still gets it and gets the break going, and i think the transition game has been obviously much better since she’s been back.” back.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 


MEN’S TENNIS 
ND to play in tourney 

Observer Staff Report 
notre dame continues its early spring season action in the iTa kickoff weekend looking for a couple big wins in a national spotlight. 
The two-day competition is comprised of 15 four-team brackets, and it will be hosted all around the country, as the number one seed in each bracket hosts all four games that will be played within its respective 
bracket.  
The  37t h-ra n ked  irish  
have  been  placed  w it h  
sixth-ranked  illinois,  26th­ 

ranked northwestern and 29th-ranked Tulsa. notre dame will play high­est-seeded illinois with northwestern facing Tulsa on Friday, while on saturday the winners and losers will vie for first and third place, respectively. 
The winner of this bracket will be invited, along with the other victors, to play in the 2016 iTa national men’s indoor championship hosted by the university of virginia from Feb. 12-15. 
The irish have competed in the iTa kickoff weekend for several years, and last year the squad hosted the four-team bracket in south bend. The irish were upset by columbia in the cham­pionship, 4-2, denying the team a shot to compete at the national men’s indoor championship. 
although they face the fa­vored home team in the first round, this year the irish have plenty of reasons to be optimistic. 
The irish started their spring campaign with a strong performance last saturday, defeating michigan state, 6-1, and detroit, 6-1, at eck Tennis pav ilion. 
The irish are bolstered by a wealth of experience up and down the lineup — including a five-member senior class, led by all­american and 2015 ncaa semi-finalist Quentin monaghan. additionally, seniors alex lawson, eric schnurrenberger, kenneth sabacinski and nicolas montoya, and juniors Josh hagar and eddy covalschi also return as significant contributors for the irish from a year ago. 
The irish and illini are set to face off Friday at 6 p.m. at atkins Tennis center in champaign, illinois. 

MEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 83, virginia Tech 81 
Leaving it late 

Jackson, Auguste fuel come-from-behind victory as Irish win third consecutive game 
By ALEX CARSON 
associate sports editor 
when notre dame needed them most wednesday night, its captains stepped to the fore­front at purcell pavilion, lead­ing the effort down the stretch to secure an 83-81 win over virginia Tech. 
The irish (13-5, 4-2 acc), who trailed 45-37 at halftime, spent most of the second half trying to catch up — on three occasions, notre dame tied the game, but each time, the hokies (12-7, 4-2) answered to re-take the lead. 
“Tonight was the ultimate,” irish head coach mike brey said. “There was nothing — every time you cut that game to one possession, they made a big play or we fouled and an and-1 or we get screwed up on a matchup and they hit a 3 down 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish dive back into ACC play against Orange 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
Following a win over no. 18 Tennessee on monday, no. 3 notre dame returns to conference play as it welcomes syracuse to purcell pavilion on Thursday night. 
The irish (17-1, 5-0 acc) got everyone involved on offense in the win over the volunteers (11-6, 2-2 sec), as six players scored in double figures. Following the per­formance, irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she believes the team is beginning to come together on both the offensive and defensive ends. 
“i think we’re starting to gel,” mcgraw said. “i think we’re head­ed in the right direction. i thought we played really well at virginia and against north carolina. we played really well in the third quar­ter [against Tennessee] — i thought we had some really good stretches against Tennessee — so i think we can really see what we can be, and it’s fun to watch.” 
as the irish return to the acc slate, they look to keep that momen­tum rolling against the orange (14­4, 4-1 acc). The orange have put together a strong season but have struggled against ranked oppo­nents. They are 0-3 against teams currently ranked in the ap Top 25, 
see w bball PAGE 14 
the corner. but we kept coming back and kept digging, and i think we’ve grown in that area.” 
but when junior guard demetrius Jackson, the mishawaka native, completed a three-point play to put notre dame ahead, 76-75, with 3:23 left, it gave the irish a lead they didn’t surrender. 
“especially how the team looks at me this year, they look at me to execute in those situ­ations,” Jackson said. “That last media timeout, [i was] just looking to really be aggres­sive and create and make some things happen. 
“ … [i was] trying to stay within myself, just knowing what i can do, but at the same time not forcing it. if i’ve got an open man, then i’m hitting that 
see m bball PAGE 14 


Let the good times roll 

Turner shines on both ends of the floor for ND 

By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
it seems like five blocks listed next to brianna Turner’s name in postgame box scores has become more common than not this sea­son for the sophomore for­ward — she’s posted that number of rejections four times so far and twice in the last three games. 
but when it comes time for the no. 3 irish to practice, in sessions that can sometimes be harder than their own games, is Turner getting her hand on the ball that much? 
“i am not. no, i’m prob­ably averaging about one per practice,” she admitted with a laugh, before hitting the court for wednesday’s prac­tice in pursuit of that lone block. 
however, Turner also cred­ited those teammates who keep her average in check during practice with her de­fensive development from her freshman to sophomore seasons. 
“we have such great play­ers,” she said. “i mean, i’m never blocking their shots in practice, but in the game, i’m 
see Turner PAGE 15 





