The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 128 | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Town Hall addresses survey results 
Community meeting evaluates findings from the 2015 Campus Climate survey 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
managing editor 
Following the monday morn­ing release of the results of the 2015 campus climate survey on sexual assault, a campus community town hall was held wednesday evening in order to offer an “opportunity for fac­ulty, staff and students to come together to discuss the topic of sexual violence and its im­pact on … [the] community,” according to a poster for the event. 
current student body vice president becca blais and for­mer student body president bryan ricketts served as mod­erators of the discussion; and panelists included, among oth­ers, deputy Title iX coordinator heather ryan, former student body vice president 
see Town hall PAGE 3 




bavo, grc plan march 

By SELENA PONIO and  MARTHA REILLY 
associate news editor and associate saint mary’s editor 
students will put their best foot forward as they march around campus Thursday and protest sexual assault as part of the an­nual Take back the night initia­tive, coordinated by the belles against violence office (bavo) at saint mary’s and the gender relations center (grc) at notre dame. The event includes a kick off at 4:45 p.m. at lake marian at saint mary’s, a dinner and “speak out” at legends at 5:30 
see march PAGE 3 


Students consider accessibility of campus buildings 
Fourteen ND dorms lack wheelchair access 
By  CATHERINE OWERS 
senior news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the fourth day in a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories focus on student experiences with physical accessibility at the College and University. 
scott howland, coordinator in the office of disability services, said all current academic buildings are accessible for students with physical disabilities, aside from riley hall, which is home to the art, art history and design department. 
“if a student would have a class in that building, we would move it to a different location,” he said. 
howland said when he came to the university in the 1990s, the mod Quad residence halls — pasquerilla east, pasquerilla west, Knott and siegfried hall — were the most physically accessible 
see nd dorms PAGE 4 




New Angela facility will be more accessible 

By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
senior news writer 
Editor’s note: This is the fourth day in a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s. Today’s stories focus on student experiences with physical accessibility at the College and University. 
benjamin bowman, director of facilities, said all buildings on saint mary’s campus are handicap and wheelchair accessible. 
The college, which was founded in 1844, by the sisters of the holy cross, has several historic build­ings, including le mans hall and holy cross hall. 
“with buildings dating back to 1903, meeting today’s ada stan­dards are an ongoing challenge,” bowman said. “current ada stan­dards are designed into all new construction and major building renovations.” 
see buildings PAGE 4 


news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 soFTball PAGE 12 baseball PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com If you could speak any language, what would it be? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Brian Pulawski 
margaret hynds 
sophomore
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
                 Kayla mullen                      cristina gutierrez 
Zahm house 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinkski 
“polish.” 

Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 


Julia Szromba 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao 
sophomore 
Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper 
breen-phillips hall 
Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“sign language.” 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 


Katie Mackin 
Editor-in-Chief 
sophomore 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
breen-phillips hall 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
“russian.” 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 



Luke Muldoon 
sophomore Zahm house 
“c++.” 

Pat Feeney 
sophomore Zahm house 
“swahili.” 

Utkarsh Sonkiya 
sophomore Zahm house 
“dotharki.” 

Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Mindful Meditation Holi Celebration Fisher Regatta Basilica Mass Irish Rebellion 
Systems & Web Administrators 

Coleman-Morse North Quad Saint Mary’s Lake Basilica of the Sacred Exhibit 
(574) 631-8839 

Center 5:15 p.m. Noon Heart Hesburgh Library Policies 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. Celebrating the Watch students in 10 a.m. - 11 a.m. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
Open to students, festival of colors and homemade boats try Sunday Mass with the Information about the 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
faculty and staff. the arrival of spring. to sail across the lake. Liturgical Choir. 1916 Easter Rising. 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 

“Critique or “As You Like it” SUB Spring Concert: “As You Like it” Student Recital 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Dialogue” DeBartolo Performing All-American Rejects DeBartolo Performing Little Theatre 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the DeBartolo Hall Arts Center Stepan Center Arts Center Noon - 1 p.m. majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 7 p.m. 2:30 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. Performance by 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
Lecture on humanist World premiere, based Tickets in LaFortune Opera based on students from the 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. inquiry. on Shakespeare. Student Center. Shakespeare’s comedy. Music Department. viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
SMC garden promotes healing  
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday a prayer over the garden before the healing together.” 
except during exam and vacation periods. By NICOLE CARATAS a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
saint mary’s editor planting, mccallick said, and each The healing garden will be a place 
semester. 

The observer is published at: student will then receive a packet of for students to join in solidarity with 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-0779 The saint mary’s Justice education seeds and a piece of paper. each other, mccallick said. 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer student advisory committee (Jsac) “you can write down something re-“it would be a good opportunity to 
send address corrections to: The observer 

will plant a healing garden on cam-ally hard that you’ve been through. be surrounded by people who have 
p.o. box 779 

024 south dining hall pus saturday afternoon. caylin it could be sexual assault or sexual had struggles,” she said. “we need 
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. mccallick, junior and student as-violence, or it could be something to build a community of survivors. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

sistant for Jsac, said the creation like anxiety or a really stressful mon-we’ve all been a survivor of some trial of a healing garden is a practice in ey situation or anything that’s been in our lives. if we come together and reappraisal. bothering you,” she said. “we’re go-bond over those issues, i think we 

“it’s turning something bad into ing to plant that and have something can create a better community on our something good,” she said. “it can be beautiful.” campus. ... i want somewhere at saint 
News Sports 

catherine owers hunter mcdaniel really therapeutic, so i wanted to do mccallick said there will also be mary’s to be a place of healing where martha reilly maureen schweninger 
the healing garden because there was wooden stakes in the ground where you can see that other people have 
Kathryn marshall 

a lot of negativity going around. it was students can write something posi-gone through problems and things 
Graphics Scene 

something that i thought would help tive they learned from the hard situ-have grown out of those experiences,” 
lindsey meyers John darr 

me and i thought maybe it would help ations they went through. she said. 
Photo Viewpoint 

other people to heal from things that “in the ground there’s something sophomore and Jsac member 
chris collins scott olehnik 

have been bad and maybe see some-bad, and above ground is something morgan matthews said all are wel­thing good. good,” she said. come to attend, regardless of the per-The healing garden will be planted Jsac is also sponsoring a screen-ceived severity of the struggle they 
Corrections 

around the lizzy seeberg memorial ing of “The hunting ground” on have been through. 
The observer regards itself as garden, mccallick said. seeberg, a Thursday night, mccallick said. “it’s healing yourself if something a professional publication and 
first year at the college in 2010, killed “we recognize that the movie is happened to you,” she said. “you don’t strives for the highest standards 
herself after reporting that she had kind of jarring for a lot of people and even have to come and plant. you can 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
been sexually assaulted by prince can bring up a lot of emotions,” she come as a support system, just to be 
however, recognize that we will make 
shembo, who was at the time a notre said. “we wanted to do a reminder there.” 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
dame football player. that these issues are real and we are 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so sr. eva hooker, a faculty member in a community in which we can Contact Nicole Caratas at 
we can correct our error. of the english department, will say support each other and grow in our ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | The observer 

vulnerable within our com-voices and be heard.” 
March 
munity, we are the strongest,” The event raises awareness 
conTinued From page 1 
adams said. “if we want to see about an underrepresented is-
a reduction in violence, we are sue, which reflects the mission 

p.m., a march around notre all responsible for becoming of the college, adams said. 
dame campus at 7:45 p.m. and educated and committing to “saint mary’s has a long his-
a candlelight prayer vigil at the prevention.” tory of meeting the needs of the 
grotto at 8:15 p.m. adams said the initiative al-times as founded by the sisters connie adams, director of lows sexual assault survivors to of the holy cross,” adams said. 
bavo, said Take back the night talk about their experiences in a “by speaking out and addressing 
unites participants by inform-supportive environment. this prominent issue and need of 
ing them of the harsh realities of “sexual assault is a crime of our time, students become one 
violence on college campuses. silence,” adams said. “survivors with a long tradition of advocacy “when we recognize and deserve a space where they can and compassion. The first step stand with some of the most share their stories, use their in change is always awareness.” regina gesicki, assistant di­
paid adverTisemenT 
rector for educational initiatives at the grc, said in an email she hopes the event evokes emotion in students and sparks change. 
“i hope attendees of Take back the night will leave the event feeling supported by their com­munity, empowered to be part of ongoing initiatives to promote culture change and hopeful that with everyone working together, we can build a future at notre dame where the silence around sexual violence is eliminated,” she said. 
gesicki said Take back the night serves as a form of heal­ing for those affected by sexual assault. 
“we know that reclaiming one’s agency is so important in healing, individually and as a community, and this can serve as a powerful way to tell one’s story for the first time, or to share wherever one is on the journey, all in a safe and supportive en­vironment,” gesicki said. “The release of the [campus climate survey] statistics was one step further in breaking the silence 
paid adverTisemenT 



around sexual violence, and Take back the night is an­other way to continue the dialogue toward change, and [offer] support [for] our com­munity members who have been impacted.” 
sophomore abigail spica, chair of bavo’s events and campaigns committee, said one in five college women will be affected by sexual assault. 
“That’s a staggering amount,” spica said. “if you look at the statistics between notre dame and saint mary’s, our campus statistics reflect the national average, unfor­tunately. Twenty percent of our community is affected by this, at least, and those are just reported numbers.” 
spica said Take back the night empowers students to work to eradicate this cycle of violence. 
“i hope that people not only have more of an awareness of violence that occurs within our community, but also that they’re inspired to end this violence, to actually make our campus a safer space,” spica said. “it’s a movement that represents support for a common humanity.” 
sophomore marilla opra, marketing representative on bavo’s events and campaigns committee, said protesting sexual assault is a necessary step in preventing it. 
“it’s an issue that’s getting out of control,” opra said.“by uniting survivors and sup­porters, we can help.” 
opra said Take back the night makes a noticeable statement because it involves so many people. 
“There’s strength in num­bers,” opra said. “when people see a large group sur­rounding supporters of a cause, then they feel more empowered to reach out for help and share their voices and help others. it’s a positive chain effect.” 
opra said student involve­ment plays an integral role in the success of Take back the night. 
“it’s one thing to have a teacher or authority figure preaching, but to hear it from fellow students resonates more,” opra said. “it makes it more relatable and easier to understand. seeing it first­hand really puts things into perspective and makes it hit home and shows how much of an epidemic it really is.” 
spica said she hopes the event changes the minds and hearts of participants by demonstrating the ne­cessity to eliminate sexual assault. 
“it allows people to come to­gether as a group and learn,” spica said. “even if we can make one person recognize that this is a problem and it needs to stop, that’s our goal.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu  and Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
Town Hall 
conTinued From page 1 
nidia ruelas, director of the gender relations center (grc) and member of the committee on sexual assault prevention (csap) christine caron gebhardt and director of the office of community standards ryan willerton. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins opened the event, em­phasizing the importance of both prevention and effective response to sexual violence on campus. 
“let me just say what has been said before — sexual violence has no place at the university of notre dame,” Jenkins said. “we must do everything we can to prevent [sexual violence]. at the same time, we cannot be blind to the reality that it has occurred and does occur and thus, we must do everything we can to respond effectively when it does occur.” 
members of the audience were then invited to direct questions to the panelists per­taining to the results of the campus climate survey and sexual assault at the university. 
senior monica gorman asked how csap planned to address drinking culture on campus, as alcohol has been shown to play a large role in incidents of sexual assault. 
gebhardt said csap had dis­cussed the role of alcohol in obtaining consent, but is still working to find a way to ad­dress the drinking culture on campus. 
“our survey actually shows that students are quite clear about what it means to have consent, but that it gets confus­ing when it comes to the use of alcohol as to who is respon­sible,” gerbhardt said. “policy­wise, i think we have always been clear that intoxication and the use of alcohol is not an excuse for not obtaining con­sent. … The question is: why do students drink the amount that they do? why is that the coping skill that students utilize? why do students say certain levels of intoxication happen?” 
The difficulty of properly educating students on the idea of consent at a catholic uni­versity where premarital sex is disallowed was also raised during the discussion. The university’s role as a catholic university also allows it to offer a unique view on the very idea of consent, gebhardt said. 
“ … how do we challenge stu­dents to respect each other and have those awkward conversa­tions that really respect the dig­nity of each person involved? [how can we] do it in a way that you all are comfortable, in a way that people feel that they can ask and feel like they are learning on how to better com­municate so that every person involved is respected and given dignity?” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND Dorms 
conTinued From page 1 
dorms. 
“right when i started, they were building Keough and mcglinn and welsh Family. Those were kind of the ideal, at that point, to place students in,” he said. “and ryan hall — the ryan family was very interested in accessibility, so they ensured that a lot of things were put in place for ryan that were fully accessible.” 
university architect doug marsh said the americans with disabilities act (ada), which was passed in 1990 and took effect in 1992, has facility and “built-envi­ronment” requirements. The state of indiana also has separate acces­sible design criteria, and though the two codes are usually consis­tent, there are small differences. 
“any building after 1992 is con­sidered new construction and needs to be barrier-free,” he said. 
Jessica ping is a freshman at notre dame who has child syn­drome, a limb and skin deficiency, and has only partial limbs on her left side. 
“in order to get around for long distances, i have to use a chair or a prosthetic, which i don’t use very often because of the skin thing. most of the time, i just use the chair. i can hop short distances,” she said. 
ping lives in a quad in mcglinn hall, but has her own room that has buttons allowing her to leave and enter more easily, as well as a shower with similar modifications. she will be living in the new wom­en’s residence hall that will open in the fall of 2016. 
“other than that, i’m not going to lie — mcglinn is supposedly one of the most accessible dorms, but i’ve had an awful time with it. it’s been really bad. The snow situation was just awful this year, with the park­ing lot out in front and nobody was willing to do anything about it. so that’s one thing i’m not happy with,” she said. 
ping said the first snowfall of the year was on a saturday night. 
“i was hungry, the dining hall was about to close, but my rector said i wouldn’t be able to get out. she was right, i got stuck, had to be pushed back in,” she said. “long story short, we ended up calling ndsp to see if they could give me a ride in one of the cop cars to the dining hall, and they just threw a fit about it. They were so rude to my­self, my roommates and my rector. They were unbelievably terrible to deal with and i didn’t try ever again with them. 
“but i did keep in contact with the disability services on campus and was like, ‘hey, i’m having issues with the snow, can you fix it?’ and they always tried to word it in a way like they were really sorry, but they weren’t going to fix it,” she said. 
marsh said the university has also worked to identify barriers in buildings that were constructed before 1992 and create a program to remove those barriers. notre dame’s historic campus, with more than 100 buildings constructed before 1992, presents unique chal­lenges. For example, alumni hall, a men’s residence hall constructed in 1931, is sunk in the ground and has a “mid-level” entry. 
“They do each have those ramped entrances so people can get on the main level, but again, there’s the chapel, now has three steps down to step into.” he said. “you remove as many barriers as physically possible, but some just aren’t achievable.” 
ping said the lack of working el­evators in other residence halls, like lyons, has kept her from being able to visit friends in their own dorms. 
“i can hop up the stairs, but i don’t feel comfortable, especially at night, leaving my chair outside for any passerby to mess around with,” she said. 
megan crowley, a freshman in ryan hall with pompe disease, which progressively weakens mus­cles, said she specifically looked at wheelchair accessibility when she was visiting college campuses as a prospective student. 
Editor’s note: Crowley spoke to The Observer with the assistance of her nurse, Debbie Larsen, who is quoted below. 
“some of the colleges were not accessible, so those got crossed off the list. notre dame was one of the ones that was really accommodat­ing to her,” larsen said. 
crowley said she has a parking space for her wheelchair-accessible van and special access to closer spaces for some buildings. she also has her own room in ryan hall. 
“because she needs her own shower, she has a nurse twenty-four hours a day with her, and she needed the space as well for all the equipment and to accommodate her needs,” larsen said. “The room is just amazing because it has a shower, it has access to water, she has a remote that opens the dorm doors. it opens the main doors for her and it also opens her own dorm room so she can get in and out.” 
crowley said she is bothered by the fact that she might not be able to attend an event on campus because not all the buildings are wheelchair-accessible. 
“... but at this point in her life, she’s accepted that there are going to be places that she can’t access and, if they can fix it, that’s great,” larsen said. “but she does understand that some of these buildings are very old and they can’t be fixed.” 
marsh said the university con­siders the requirements set forth by ada and state codes to be mini­mums, and tries to exceed those minimums “in several key areas,” including ramp design. 
while ramps are allowed to have “about an 8.3 percent” slope, ramps on the university’s new con­struction aim to have a maximum slope of five percent. 
Transitions in floor material, such as going from carpet to tile, or vinyl to tile or a wood floor, is another issue the university tries to be cognizant of in new construc­tion, marsh said. 
“again, speaking with people who’ve endured these challenges, those transitions, even allowed, can be jarring or, depending on their condition, quite painful,” he said. “ryan hall was the first of its kind to have a no vertical floor transitions. 
News writer Megan Valley con­tributed to this story. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 
“i chose saint mary’s be­cause of the campus size, but it was one of the schools i didn’t visit.” 
when dedelow went on visits at state schools, she said those campus were difficult to navigate. despite saint mary’s small campus, dedelow said there are ways saint mary’s could improve the experience of a student with a physical disability. while handicapped parking spots are available near the cushwa-leighton library, these spots are not for student use. dedelow said she received a ticket when she parked outside of the library. 
south bend’s winter weather also creates challenges for stu­dents with disabilities on saint mary’s campus, dedelow said. 
“i can pretty much maneuver on my own, it’s more like get­ting around campus, especially in the winter,” she said. “even though i have adequate bal­ance, the slippery sidewalks can be difficult.” 
dedelow said she thinks it’s 



paid adverTisemenT 
Buildings 
conTinued From page 1 
senior bridget dedelow has cerebral palsy said she has done room selection with all the rest of the student body. 
her first year at saint mary’s, dedelow said she was in a room in mccandless hall with a full bathroom. she now lives in lemans hall and said the office of residence life and community standards has been helpful, but she doesn’t get special privileges. 
important for there to be more open dialogue about disability on the college campus. 
“i wish i would have advocated more for disability services and support, physically and mentally,” she said. “sometime you just need to talk to someone because you’re tired of being of disabled. it’s odd to say, but ... it takes a mental and physical toll on your body.” 
angela athletic Facility and wellness center, scheduled to open fall 2017, will be more accessible for students and visitors in wheel­chairs, bowman said. 
“The new angela building will meet all current ada codes,” bowman said. “There will be ramps at both the north and south entrances. within the building, there will be an elevator and proper restroom facilities to accommo­date ada needs.” 
bowman said the college con­tinues to budget capital dollars toward site improvements for ac­commodating ada requirements related to sidewalks and roadways. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By BOBBY WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

as the summer begins and the always-exciting season of music festivals commences, big names like coachella, lollapalooza and bonnaroo have broadcasted their lineups on various media plat­forms. at the top of each lineup, the names of the most popular artists (i’m talking lcd soundsystem, pearl Jam, red hot chili peppers, J. cole, etc.) stand out, isolated in large font as the most popular head­liners. as you make your way down the lineup, though, the names get smaller and harder to read, just as the artists’ set times get pushed earlier on in the day. Festival-goers unfortunately often opt out of seeing these lesser-known artists, missing out on a chance to experience some incredible music and expand their music taste. Just like previous years, the music festivals of 2016 have countless brilliant acts that reside at the bottom of the lineups. here’s a look at a few of the best: 
Hiatus Kaiyote 

This two-time grammy-nominated jazz-funk quartet have received critical acclaim for their uniquely captivating albums “Talk Tomahawk” and “choose your weapon” but have gathered only a modest following throughout their five years of working together. Featured in the lineups of lollapalooza, osheaga, pemberton and outside lands, this talented australian group will surely put on incredibly unique performances over the course of the summer. led by the beautifully po­etic front-woman nai palm, hiatus Kaiyote creates an original musical landscape filled with organic sounds that are backed by groovy beats. They’re perfect group to kick off the day. 
Louis the Child 

This up-and-coming electronic music duo have quickly popularized themselves with their single, “it’s strange,” which has over five million plays on both spotify and soundcloud. although they are still near the bottom of festival lineups for lollapalooza, Firefly and governor’s ball, their in­fectious synthetic beats and catchy remixes will certainly create a great atmosphere earlier on in the day. with no current original ep or lp, new mu­sic is sure to drop before the end of the summer as they continue their catapult up the electronic mu­sic ladder. 
SZA 

For some reason i cannot wrap my mind around, sZa still sits close to the bottom of each music festival lineup she is featured in, including those for pemberton and coachella. This Top dawg entertainment artist has not gained nearly as much popularity as her frequent collaborators (Kendrick lamar, rihanna and chance the rapper, to name a few); however, her soulful voice and clever song­writing (see nicki minaj and beyoncé’s “Feeling myself”) make her one of the most talented female artists in today’s music industry. with three alter­native r&b eps under her belt, sZa is far from new to the world of music, but she has consistently been given earlier and less-popular set times in past years’ music festivals. i would definitely recom­mend arriving early to catch this performance. 
Bas 

although this american rapper debuted his first studio album “last winter” in 2014, he has quickly proven himself as a talented artist through collabo­rations with J. cole, 50 cent and dJ Khaled, land­ing him a spot in the lineups of lollapalooza and pemberton. bas released his sophomore album, “Too high To riot,” back in march, further showcas­ing his fluid bars and witty, honest style. The record features a more stripped-back confidence that still maintains bouncy, percussion-based beats that are sure to put on a great show. 
Contact Bobby Wozniak at rwozniak@nd.edu 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
FRIDAY 


What: Holi, the Festival of Colors When: 5:15 p.m. Where: North Quad How Much: Free 
The indian association is hosting its annual celebration of holi, a tra­ditional festival where people of all colors can come together to become people of all different colors. grab some colorful dust and throw it in the air like you just do care about the sharing of culture. whether you’re staying for the holi dinner at ndh or just making a rainbow dash, this event should be on your wavelength. 
SATURDAY 

What: Dave Coulier When: 10 p.m. - 12 a.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free 
make sure to get to david coulier’s stand-up set early, because it’s go­ing to be a “Full house.” 

SUNDAY 

What: Opera Notre Dame Presents “As You Like It” When: 2:30 p.m. Where: Patricia George Decio Theatre, Debartolo Performing Arts Center How Much: $10 for students 
notre dame opera is hold­ing the world premiere of “as you like it,” a new musical take on an old  shakespearean comedy that’s sure to have you singing with joy. directed by stage veteran leland Kimball, the production will be showing at 7:30 p.m. from Thusday through saturday with a final show­ing sunday at 2:30 p.m. 
SCENECAST 

Scenecast is a weekly podcast featur­ing the best and brightest minds here in The Observer’s scene section. 
officially the best collegiate newspaper-affiliated podcast in the state, scenecast may not be seen but it definitely deserves to be heard. Tune in to hear some hipsters dis­cuss a range of topics including “records you need to hear because they’re great,” “records you need to hear because everyone’s listening to them,” and “records you shouldn’t listen to because everyone’s listen­ing to them.” 
LINDSEY MEYERS | The Observer 


The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bad cabs 
Kelly McGarry 
associate scene editor 

on any given weekend night, the main circle fills with minivans sporting the logos of a va­riety of taxi companies. The special deal is $3 per person in a group within the nearby area, and it’s a pretty nice deal. it’s comparable to the price of taking a bus, and each person is responsible for her own fare. For these nearby locations, it’s a pretty nice deal for the drivers too, who make more than the meter price. 
unfortunately, the hundreds of students who crowd main circle in search of a ride on the weekend are frequently abused. anyone who has ever taken a cab to a party or bar has heard this from the cab driver: “we have to wait for more people.” sometimes a driver will refuse to leave without packing the car past capacity. i had this happen when i, in a group of five, was waiting for the van to fill. in a seven-seater van, you can’t get much closer to full. my friends and i resounded “sir, the cab is already full.” in response, he squeezed the two young men looking for a ride together in the front seat. This wasn’t fair, safe or legal. 
sitting on another person’s lap is a common experience for cab patrons, so common that many of us don’t even react with the outrage the situation warrants. when you pay for a ride, you should expect, at the very least, your own seat. it’s not only uncomfortable to squeeze in next to too many people, but it’s also against the law. These cab drivers who are cramming up to 12 people in a vehicle that seats seven put our lives at risk. and even worse, the driver is rewarded for his bad behavior: he makes at times twice as much money from a single ride than his law-abiding counterpart. 
riding in a crowded cab may have you feel­ing anxious. you may sit fearfully in the back of the cab, thinking there’s nothing you can do. or, it might not faze you. so many people ride in these packed cabs like it’s nothing, like this is just the way it is. but really, we as customers have the right — and the responsibility — to demand better service, at the very least lawful service. 
students need to respond more actively to these situations. before getting into any cab, make a note of the company name and cab number. it’s our responsibility to call in a com­plaint of a bad driver. if a cab won’t leave until it is jam packed, simply leave the cab. chances are there are plenty of others around, and, if you’re lucky, one might meet your standards. lastly, if a cab driver puts you in a dangerous situation or engages in unsafe driving such as speeding and disobeying stop signs, it is cru­cial that you report it to ndsp and the south bend police. 
when cab drivers continue to abuse stu­dents, we don’t need to subject ourselves to their terrible service. with uber now in south bend, we have another option. uber drivers have a much better reputation on campus of respecting their customers, and the app’s fare-split feature makes it so an individual’s con­tribution to a group ride is comparable to the price of a cab. 
The current practices of the taxi drivers that take advantage of notre dame students are un­acceptable. we need to demand major changes, or stop giving them our service. 
Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Fighting irish, belles and saints 
Eddie Damstra 
dinner Table Talks 

notre dame is unique from most any other uni­versity in the world. The university offers the inte­gration of spirituality, academia and competitive sports at a level that is unmatched. Take a casual walk around campus and you could pass by peo­ple praying at the grotto, students flocking into hesburgh library and workers continuing construc­tion on notre dame stadium. spiritual growth, rigorous academics and world-class sports teams are just some of the defining characteristics of the university. The combination, and perhaps integra­tion, of such characteristics is what drew many of to love notre dame. i know that certainly was the case for me. however, there is one incredible character­istic of notre dame that is often underappreciated. such a characteristic is summarized by a phrase that can be seen on the websites of notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross college: “tri-campus community.” i have been fortunate enough to be directly engaged with two thirds of the tri-campus community. This is because, unlike the vast major­ity of notre dame’s class of 2019, i have spent my freshman year at holy cross college. i, along with close to 50 other holy cross freshmen, am a part of the gateway program. The program essentially entails living and taking classes at holy cross while also taking classes and getting involved at notre dame. contingent on meeting certain standards, those in the program are guaranteed to be admit­ted to notre dame after their freshman year at holy cross. 
while i first was disappointed with not being granted immediate admission to notre dame, i am now immensely grateful for this unique opportu­nity. without attending holy cross, i would not have met my amazing friends or gotten to engage in rivet­ing conversations with holy cross professors. holy cross has allowed me to experience things i would otherwise have not experienced, and meet people i would have otherwise not have met. consequently, being directly involved with both holy cross and notre dame has taught me the importance of the multi-campus community. 
however, the reality behind the tri-campus com­munity is that it often is perceived as a bi-campus community. everyone is familiar with — and some are directly involved with — the institutions of saint mary’s and notre dame, but often lost in the mix is holy cross college. This could be, and prob­ably is, due to the combination of holy cross being the newest member of the tri-campus community and possessing the smallest student body of the tri-campus community. while notre dame and saint mary’s were founded in 1842 and 1844 respec­tively, holy cross wasn’t established until 1966. additionally, while notre dame and saint mary’s possess undergraduate populations of over 8,000 and close to 2,000 respectively, holy cross has a stu­dent body of just over 500. it only seems natural that holy cross could be easily forgotten. 
however, i urge anyone who reads this not to for­get holy cross. holy cross isn’t just a small college next to a world-renowned university; it is that, but it is also so much more. holy cross, or “hocro” as many call it, is a place where a sense of community is palpable. if i had to pick one word that comes to mind when thinking of holy cross, it would be “relationships.” a typical school day could include conversations with college president br. John paige, faculty members and even the many friars study­ing on campus. holy cross, like notre dame and saint mary’s, is a unique place consisting of unique people. it is for that reason that i implore the mem­bers of notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross to appreciate and engage our unique community. i am grateful for the ability to spend my college years in a place where three different institutions can be asso­ciated with each other. i love that notre dame, saint mary’s and holy cross can all flourish together. i love the tri-campus community so much that i de­sire for it to be embraced even more. 
if you look at the front page of the observer, you will notice the subtitle “The independent newspa­per serving notre dame and saint mary’s.” i do not know the reasons for the exclusion of holy cross and there may be logical explanations for such an exclusion. however, the subtitle of the observer is a tangible representation of the current nature of the tri-campus community. unfortunately, holy cross is sometimes forgotten. This should not be the case. i hope that all of us within this amazing community appreciate and value the presence of all three insti­tutions. as i leave holy cross and move on to notre dame, i will always cherish and embrace holy cross and the tri-campus community. i pray that you do too. 
Eddie Damstra is a freshman from Orland Park, Illinois. He is majoring in political science and is con­sidering attending law school after his time as an un­dergraduate at the University of Notre Dame. He can be reached at edamstra@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A school for all views 
That’s the message notre dame portrays loud and clear to all students who want to apply. as the mission statement proclaims, “The intellectual interchange essential to a university requires, and is enriched by, the presence and voices of diverse scholars and students.” so, if this is true, can it not be inferred that here at notre dame we accept a large variety of perspectives, including some that might conflict with the traditional catholic viewpoint? 
hold your horses right there. so even people who speak against catholic doctrine are welcome here on campus at notre dame to share their thoughts and opinions? 
you bet your cute little buttons they are. 
if they were not welcomed on campus, notre dame could not be the fantastic institution of edu­cation that it is today. in order to have any place in the academic community, notre dame needs to welcome people of all walks of life and ideologies to fully educate the students of all the different perspectives that exist in our world. 
only exposing students to one viewpoint (pun intended) is immensely problematic. it brainwash­es students, not allowing them to see that there are other ways to think out there in the world. Though this can be easily combatted in today’s modern society and with easy access to technol­ogy, it is still important for young minds to realize that they are not alone in this world, that their ideas are not wrong and their thoughts are legiti­mate. r. roderick palmer, who writes on this idea, sees education systems that hinder their students’ freedom of thought as not really education at all, but indoctrination. mccauley, another expert on this matter, would say something similar, that ed­ucation calls for, “a full and undistorted presenta­tion of the evidence for a case and it is precisely in its distortion of the evidence that indoctrination offends.” by only presenting one side of a mat­ter, or just the catholic perspective of the matter, those institutions that shield their students from ideas that conflict with their own are guilty of not educating but indoctrinating their students. This is not a healthy idea of education. 
it is important for students to hear as many sides of an issue as possible. Just this week, wendy davis, who fought for reproductive rights in the Texas state senate, and speakers “restoring com­mon sense to feminism” (which was, unfortunate­ly, canceled) were brought to campus. To me, this is amazing. i am able to listen to all these different ideas, sort through them for myself and decide what to think, and notre dame is helping me do this. claiming that either one of those speakers is polluting young minds is incredibly flawed and speaks of the little respect that one would have for the students here at notre dame. we deserve to be given the respect to make up our own minds; we have agency, we have choice and we can under­stand what we personally think is right or wrong. we do not have to agree with everything just any­one tells us. we know who we respect and we know who to listen to. exposing us to more perspectives, including those that conflict with the traditional notre dame catholic viewpoint, gives us the abil­ity to listen respectfully to what other people have to stay, stand firm in our beliefs, and maybe even allow our world view to widen or change. 
listen to all the different perspectives surround­ing you, catholic or not. listen carefully, listen respectfully, but listen. That’s what we are here for. we are here to learn and we learn by listening. Take everything in, think about it, then decide what you think about it. do not take away our right to choose for ourselves. 
we deserve that much. 
Molly Burton 
sophomore april 6 

Sleep Out for Syria 
“no one leaves home / unless home is the mouth of a shark” - “home” by warsan shire 
no one leaves home unless home is the mouth of a shark. isn’t that interesting? and isn’t that something we so often forget? when we hear the phrase “syrian refugee crisis,” how many of us think about reports we’ve heard on biased news channels or read online or in newspapers? how many of our minds go straight to the politics sur­rounding this disaster? how many of us think “resettlement” or about the other countries be­ing affected by this emergency? To all those thoughts, i’d like to share something a new friend told me, “this isn’t a political issue; it’s a humani­tarian crisis.” our minds, so easily checked-out from a situation over 6,000 miles away, often for­get that this crisis is real and is happening right now to real people. This is why welsh Family hall sponsored sleep out for syria. 
For those of you who were spared from my constant chatter about the event or borderline obnoxious advertising on Facebook, sleep out for syria was held Friday, april 1. a group of whirlwinds and friends stayed out on south Quad in front of south dining hall from 6 p.m. to noon the next day raising funds and awareness to benefit the humanitarian efforts of usa for unhcr (united nations high commissioner for refugees) in syrian refugee camps. and for those of you who remember how awful the weather was that Friday night to saturday morning, it wasn’t easy. we persevered through rain, snow and some not-so-encouraging comments. The event started with an opening prayer by Fr. groody, and ended with some strong “Thank god we get to go back inside” sentiments. 
we’d like to thank those who stayed out all night, joined in on our dance parties, stopped by for a couple minutes, and all those who do­nated to the cause (special shoutout to those who donated twice, @youstedsguy). we were able to raise $1,500 to benefit the humanitarian efforts at the syrian refugee camps aided by usa for unhcr, and we could not have done it without all of you. 
we hope to see you this fall for the next annual sleep out for syria! 
Kyra Blas 
sophomore april 19 

The finest of formals 
as the voice of our generation, T-pain famously said: “spring is sprung.” That may be a misquote, but i’m pretty sure will Ferrell did say, “gotta have me more boats and bros,” and that’s even more relevant. because this coming wednesday, april 27, the men of st. edward’s hall are travel­ing to chicago to enjoy yet another night aboard the mystic blue. The night is sure to be replete with merriment and laughter, but there’s still one minor issue. as yet, many of the steds gentlemen do not have dates to join us. what’s the point of having the best dorm formal if you have no one to enjoy it with? 
steds is steeped in tradition, and so i come to you now, as my predecessors have before me, to humbly ask you to ask me to ask you to yacht dance. if you got lost in the “asks” there, i can clarify. check out the url below, which links to this year’s “steds’ president (and friends) yacht dance application presented by google Forms.” The application is filled with tough questions like “what is your favorite speech, real or fictional?” and “on a 1-5 scale, how much do you like to dance?” if it seems too daunting, be at ease know­ing there are no required questions. Feel free to answer all the questions — or none of them. i like a girl who’s mysterious. 
anyway, i’d love to get to know you, and hope­fully take you on a night out that would make the notre dame gender relations center say, “that’s what we’re talking about!” plus, i’ve got a really big team, and they really need dates too. maybe you’d rather go with them. For the first time ever, the steds president’s application includes that op­tion as well. apply any time up to one hour before yacht dance, but i’m probably going to make a decision on saturday so maybe apply before then. better yet, apply today and prepare to set sail! 
http://goo.gl/forms/bmpsFjoaaF 
i’m out for steds presidents to represent me, 
Griffin Hilly 
junior st. edward’s hall april 19 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


FOR RENT 

3 BR 1.5 BA graduate housing @ 1010 Hudson Ave, SB 46616. $800 + utilities. Washer/dryer, kitchen appliances included. Contact philipms@sbcglobal.net 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: getting along with your peers may not be easy, but it will make all the difference when it comes to advancement. strive for greater popularity by offering assistance and suggestions. be willing to adapt and collaborate and you will gain support. stabilize your home and personal life by putting a good budget in place. your numbers are 8, 11, 16, 21, 29, 33, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): stay on top of what you want to accomplish. an industrious attitude will put you in the running for advancement. spend wisely on items or information that will help you get ahead and be your best. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): put your heart into everything you do. Focus on your reputation and dealing with situations that include children or socializing. if you mix business with pleasure, you will achieve more. your focus should be on quality, not quantity. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do something active that combines exercise and conversation with others. romance is in the stars and will unfold unexpectedly. your tireless efforts will leave a lasting impression and set the stage for a promising future. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take note of what is going on around you. showing interest in others will help keep the peace and put you in a favorable position when you want something in return. For now, relationships will face stress if you complain or make a fuss. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): mingle with people who can offer you information or help you gain popularity or a chance to advance. boost your energy by getting involved in an exhilarating challenge with a friend or loved one. romance is on the rise. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): share your ideas and you’ll receive valuable suggestions from your allies. step up your game when it comes to long-range planning. don’t pass up a chance to get ahead because someone is putting unreasonable domestic demands on you. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): emotional sensitivity will surface if someone tries to control you or introduces last-minute changes. Try to maintain your balance and make plans to do what suits you best. getting upset will only make matters worse. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): broaden the possibilities by discussing your plans with someone who can contribute. Joining forces with others will make any project you pursue engaging and entertaining. Think outside the box, play to win and enjoy the outcome. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): consider a new hobby, but don’t go overboard spending on accessories until you are sure you are passionate about your pursuit. making alterations to your domestic situation will give your love life a boost and encourage greater stability. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): listen carefully so you fully understand the implications being made before you retaliate. protect your reputation, assets and possessions before you make anyone aware of your next move. be smart and you’ll have no regrets. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): being hospitable will ensure that you receive the backing required to achieve your objectives. work at putting together a routine that is ironclad and geared toward success. immaculate organization will be key. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): open up conversations with the intent of forming partnerships with well-established individuals whom you can trust to do their share. don’t be put off by concerns or questions. offer possible solutions and you’ll get positive feedback. 


Birthday Baby: you are reliable, imaginative and goal-oriented. you are assertive and open-minded. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
I got something we could start tonight. Lookin’ at you girl it’s hard to fight. Those stars need to be wished on. Your skin needs to be kissed on. My eyes, baby, they’re fixed on you in your snapback. T-shirt of your favorite rock band. Checkin’ your make-up in my Ray Bans. Breakin’ hearts like only you can in your snapback. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

CFP champs form an elite group 

Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
Editor’s Note: This week, the Sports Authority columnists answer the question, “In which competi­tion is it most difficult to win a championship?” 
The prospect of winning a championship in any sport at any level is a daunting one. particularly in team sports that participate in leagues, so many factors beyond individual abil­ity are counted towards a team’s ability to excel at a championship level that it seems next to impos­sible to manage it on a consistent basis. 
or does it? one would think that any championship that can be won consistently must not be that difficult to win. but then, this is assuming that teams and play­ers start off on equal footing in the first place. professional leagues like the nhl and nba have insti­tutions put into place to encour­age parity, and their respective leagues are limited in terms of program membership. The ravenwood high school basket­ball team simply cannot partici­pate in the nba, regardless of its talent level. professional leagues are meticulously crafted and maintained in order to sustain their dual identities as equal parts sporting competition and enter­tainment media. everything is so tightly maintained that parity is a rule rather than an exception. 
such a level of meticulous maintenance does not extend to the college game. i would argue that it is far more difficult to win a championship at the college level than in the pros, regardless of the sport in question. 
For the sake of this article, let’s turn our focus to ncaa division i football.  There exist so many barriers to parity in the college game of football that transition­ing from a struggling team to a championship caliber program proves a next-to-impossible task to accomplish. 
The first and most obvious bar­rier that exists is the sheer number of programs at play. most profes­sional leagues in america hover somewhere around 30 teams or so 
– and usually about half of those teams end up in postseason play. in division i Fbs football there are a whopping 128 teams eligible to compete for the national champi­onship. even if all of these teams were on roughly even ground as far as the ability to compete, this would mean an almost impossi­ble level of competition to adhere to and exceed in on a yearly basis. 
Further complicating the issue are matters of funding, recruit­ment, visibility and other pro­gram-specific barriers to success. The chicago cubs, despite their historic inability to win champi­onships, have never struggled to gain access to elite talent. every single year there is a player draft in which the cubs organization is guaranteed the exclusive rights to sign a number of all-world base­ball talents to their organization. so it goes for almost every profes­sional sports team. 
in college, though, it is very different. There is no official tal­ent pipeline. schools are left to fend for themselves when it comes to filling their programs with warm bodies, let alone talented players. Teams like alabama and michigan and oklahoma – peren­nial powerhouses and threats to win the national championship in any given calendar year – rarely struggle with recruiting talent and usually have the pick of the litter when it comes to incoming play­ers. For teams such as these, the lack of an official pipeline of talent (a la, a professional draft) barely matters at all. 
Those teams, however, aren’t where the difficulty emerges. For programs like akron or appalachian state, whose recruit­ment is largely restricted to the regions the schools occupy and even then is limited to the bottom of the talent barrel, long after the likes of the top 25 have had their fill of talented recruits, competing for a national championship is more a pipe dream than a realistic expectation. it is hard enough to get into the top 25, let alone con­tend for one of the final four spots warranting a trip to the college Football playoff. They simply can’t be expected to compete with elite programs in terms of talent – or financial, medical and instruc­tional resources, for that matter. 
but set all that aside for a mo­ment. what if a program man­aged to beat the odds? what if a marshall or a boise state was to run the table and win every game thrown at them? even if a team manages to play its season ab­solutely perfectly, with no errors whatsoever, they are still not likely to be afforded a chance at the title. The system is not constructed in the interest of parity. it’s designed to honor history and to grow the blue-bloods that have sustained college football’s success over the decades. 
The football players who win the national college title every year are not the best players on the planet. in that respect, it may be easier to win a college title than a lombardi Trophy. For all but a select few programs, though, win­ning a championship isn’t a far-off goal. it’s a virtual impossibility. in my opinion, that makes the ncaa championship uniquely difficult to win. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

There is no reason notre dame can’t win big games 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 

There’s two ways to look at notre dame’s season, and 11-5 record, as the postseason quickly approaches. either the irish are a team who can beat anyone out­side the top five and hang with national title contenders well enough to have a shot if things go their way, or they’re a better-than­most team better that is still a notch below the teams who really matter. 
monday’s loss to usc was the third to a team currently in the top-five, while the first irish loss of the season came against a louisville team that started the year hot. of those four losses, three were by a single goal. a 17-12 loss at northwestern remains the only major blip on notre dame’s resume. 
much like syracuse in march, usc was a potentially season-defining game for notre dame, as the irish held onto a high place in the polls and had a chance to get a signature win to push them towards the top four. but they couldn’t find a way to get their best win of the season. 
against the Trojans, the irish held the nation’s fourth highest-scoring offense (14.67 goals per game) to just five goals, but couldn’t get it done at the other end of the field, scoring only four. only one other team has kept 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 12 

thinking about my next at-bat. i knew i was going to get a big one coming up,” vierling said. “came up, and i think he threw me two of the same pitches be­fore and he hung that one, and i recognized it right away and put a good swing on it.” 
“That swing that he made was huge, you know,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “one swing of the bat changes it all around, ties it, and at that point it kind of felt like our kids 
— they kind of swelled up from there thinking it just doesn’t matter, we can go out there and give up a run and we’re still go­ing to win this game.” 
and vierling made sure of it. 

after starting the game in center field, vierling took the mound and threw two score­less innings in the eighth and ninth. 
chippewa sophomore left fielder daniel Jipping led off the eighth with a single but was thrown out trying to steal second by irish junior catcher ryan lidge to halt any response to vierling’s home run. 
central michigan then lead off the ninth with a double and within a single goal of the un­defeated Trojans, who look set for a top-four seed at the ncaa tournament, all year. so is that a promising sign, or are the irish just not able to actually beat the best teams? 
There’s nothing about the way the irish play that says they can’t beat a great team. perhaps the most promising sign for the irish this season came two days earlier, against duke. The irish were behind and without the ball with under two minutes left, but caused a turnover when they needed it to get the game-winning goal. it’s exactly what should make the irish so hard to play: Their high-intensity de­fense makes it difficult to close out any game, but usc closed out monday’s game with nearly eighteen scoreless minutes after junior attack michaela michael’s game-winner. 
it’s obvious the irish play with an intensity and passion that should allow them to thrive in close games against top competi­tion, but they haven’t done much more than make games close. 
The irish have the abil­ity to dominate good teams for stretches too. early in the season, runs of eight and 10 unanswered goals led them past stanford and boston college, respectively. even against north carolina, notre dame managed a 6-1 run over each side of halftime, but the irish just happened to be trailing 9-1 
then advanced the go-ahead run to third with yet another sac bunt, but vierling struck out the next chippewa batter and then induced a fly-out to left to escape the jam to give notre dame a chance to win it in the bottom of the ninth. 
“Just calm myself down,” vierling said when asked how to adjust from the field and the adrenaline of the home run to taking the mound. “obviously ryan lidge made a great play. it’s definitely a challenge going from the field and hitting and then pitching takes a lot of fo­cus and a lot of different things going on. you just put your­self in the right mindset, calm yourself down, relax yourself, focus on what you’re doing, and i’m glad things worked out.” 
Junior second baseman cavan biggio led off the bottom of the ninth with a double and then sophomore right fielder Jake shepski singled to move biggio to third and put runners on the corners with no outs. 
after an intentional walk to senior left fielder Zak Kutsulis to load the bases, vierling strolled to the plate. 
The freshman turned on an 0-2 pitch and sent it to the fence in left-center for the walk-off victory. 
when it started. 
when the irish find rhythm, they’re as good as anyone: it just doesn’t seem to happen consis­tently against top teams. 
it’s easy to imagine how this season could end for notre dame. a no. 7 or no. 8 seed for the ncaa tournament, and a hard-fought loss to maryland or Florida. That’s what the irish have to shake, and it needs to start now. a loss to ohio state on saturday to close the season would give notre dame five defeats in their final seven regular-season games. 
against this schedule, that’s hardly a crisis, but it’s not how you want to get ready for postseason play. a win would give the irish some much-needed momentum going into the acc tournament. There, the irish don’t need to win it all, but avenging a defeat to either syracuse or north carolina would make it clear that this irish team is for real. 
There’s no real reason to believe that notre dame can’t do this. The irish look like a team that can win big games. They consistently compete with the best, but after monday’s defeat, the irish will have to prove that they can win, not just compete. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“it really didn’t change my approach,” vierling said. “i was actually surprised they [walked Kutsulis], but i saw them walk him and i just said i’m going to stay with my approach and try to hit something to the outfield and i did, so i guess i’m happy they did that.” 
“he got into that 2-0 count, and i think he sat that breaking ball and he didn’t miss it,” aoki said. 
vierling’s final stat line? Three hits in five plate ap­pearances, four rbis, two runs scored and the winning pitcher of record, pushing his record to 2-0 on the year. both of his vic­tories on the mound have come after he delivered the walk-off hit at the plate. 
“it’s the right move to walk Zak, and then matt, two strikes, gets that [pitch], does a phe­nomenal job. The kid was really good tonight,” aoki said. 
The victory comes in the final home game of a recent stretch that has seen the irish play at Frank eck stadium in 12 of their last 13 games. notre dame hits the road again in a return to acc play and a visit to no. 9 Florida state this weekend. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsin@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | The observer 




Softball 
conTinued From page 12 
she was the most impressed how nasland closed out the game after surrendering two home runs. 
“rachel isn’t catching many breaks when she’s not hitting her spots right now,” gumpf said. “right now, she missed a couple spots and she paid for it. sometime the game is like that, it tests you and it challenges you and you just have to step up and keep attacking it. i think she came back and did a great job after the second home run. she came back and really shut the door. i loved the way she finished.” 
The first rough spot for the junior came in the top of the fourth inning when the crusaders worked runners on first and second with no outs. a fielder’s choice gave the irish an out with runners on the corners and a ground ball to rochford led to the second out of the inning. 
nasland escaped the inning, striking out valparaiso sopho­
more  first  baseman brenna  
boyle  and  stranding  three  
runners.  

in the bottom of the fourth inning, junior center fielder Karley wester singled to lead off and stole second — her 32nd steal of the year which ties a notre dame record for most steals in a season. ali wester advanced her sister to third on a fielder’s choice, and rochford delivered with a line-drive sin­gle back up the middle to score Karley wester and put the irish up 6-0. 

later in the inning with rochford still on base, arizmendi added to the irish lead by driving a ball deep to right field that scored rochford and sent arizmendi to third for a triple. 
valparaiso ruined nasland’s shutout in the top of the fifth as sophomore shortstop stephanie moreno led off the inning with a solo home run to centerfield to put valparaiso on the board 7-1. it was moreno’s third home run of the year. 
in the top of the sixth, the crusaders added to their lead as boyle snuck a two-run home run to right field to make it a 7-3 ball game. 
The irish went three­up,three-down in both the fifth and sixth innings, and sopho­more pitcher Katie beriont came in to close out the game for nasland. 
The colts neck, new Jersey native retired all three crusader batters to give notre dame its 34th win of the season. 
The irish are in action next against north carolina with a three-game weekend series that kicks off saturday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu 
Bookstore 
conTinued From page 12 
No. 1 Finnegan’s 21, No. 9 Harden the Paint 2 13 
The top-seeded Finnegan’s topped no. 9 harden the paint 2 by a score of 21-13 in the elite eight on wednesday evening. Finnegan’s, led by senior captain patrick mazza, are the defending bookstore basketball champi­ons and looked ready to repeat in this matchup, jumping out to a healthy 11-5 halftime lead and controlling the game from there. They moved the ball well against their opponent’s zone defense and found a good balance be­tween throwing the ball inside to mazza and knocking down jumpers from the outside. 
“i thought we played well,” mazza said. “i thought our of­fense looked good. … we have a lot of good passers so we were re­ally able to find the seams in the zone, and that’s working well so we’re feeling pretty good at this stage.” 
mazza, looking to lead Finnegan’s to back-to-back championships, talked about that specific goal of the team and what it would mean to repeat. 
“i think [repeating] has been our mentality all along,” mazza said. “even though we won last year, we’re still a hungry bunch. we want it just as bad as any­body, especially since no notre dame team has gone back-to­back in the last twenty years, it’d be pretty cool to accomplish that feat, so that’s what we’re looking to do.” 
Top-seeded Finnegan’s moves on to the Final Four, while harden the paint 2 is eliminated from the tournament. 
Team 2 21, Big Bodies 18 
on wednesday night, second-seeded Team 2 defeated no. 10 big bodies, 21-18, to move onto the Final Four. 
The game started out close, as both teams traded baskets throughout the first part of the half. early on in the game, as big bodies took off on a fast break, a player on Team 2 wrapped up the dribbler, throwing him to the ground. a short scuffle broke out, but the referees broke it up quick­ly, assigning a double technical foul. 
Team 2 graduate student Kyle rubbinaccio said his team was able to keep level heads despite the incident. 
“basketball is very mental,” he said. “if you let that kind of stuff trigger throughout the game you’re not gonna have an optimal performance.” 
big bodies answered by mak­ing three shots in a row, bringing the score to an even 6-6. 
coming into game, rubbinaccio said Team 2 was ready for a challenge. 
“They’re a very tough team, pretty good shooting team, very physical,” rubbinaccio said. “we knew we had to work hard, play as hard as we can, and whatever the score may be, it would be.” 
The shooters on both teams were hot later in the first half. after Team 2 made a shot from behind the line, the big bodies answer with one of their own be­fore Team 2 hit yet another deep shot, bringing the score to 11-9 at halftime in favor of Team 2. 
Team 2 started to pull away some in the second half. The big bodies didn’t go down easy, but Team 2 was able to utilize quick ball movement and dominant re­bounding to get some good looks in the paint. They closed out the game with a deep shot several feet beyond the 3-point line. 
Team 2 will take on the drones on court Four at 6 p.m. this Friday. 
rubbinaccio said his team has a great chance to take home the win and advance to the final round of the tournament. 
“we play a law student and a few holy cross students,” he said. “i saw them play a little bit. They’re very solid, very physical. we’ve just gotta stick to our game plan. i think we have enough tal­ent to come out victorious.” 
No. 4 Traded by the 76ers for Third Round Draft Picks def. No. 5 College Pilots by forfeit 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu, Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu, Dominic Ianelli at rianelli@nd.edu and 
R.J. Stempak at  rstempak@nd.edu 



ROWING 

nd to close regular season 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 
no. 17 notre dame stays relatively local this weekend as it travels to bloomington, indiana, for the dale england cup. 
irish head coach martin stone said he is looking for­ward to the weekend as a whole. 
“i think our teams really enjoy it,” stone said. “it’s a wonderful atmosphere, and indiana is a great host. mr. england is there throughout the weekend, and they host a dinner Friday night that all the teams go to. it’s pretty cool. it’s fun, and there’s a lot of stuff outside of just be­ing on the water and racing that goes into it. it’s a quality event, and quality teams so we’ll see.” 
last weekend at the lake natoma invitational in sacramento, california, notre dame raced against six ranked teams, which stone said helped the team identify things it can work on. 
“i think there’s areas we identified [to improve],” stone said, “i think each boat identi­fied some things in each boat and some things in our race strategy that we have to do. we’re still trying to process and maybe see if there’s a dif­ferent combination for the varsity four lineup, but other than that i don’t think there’s any changes. we may make changes on wednesday. we don’t know. There’s not any plan changes right now.” 
at the dale england cup regatta this weekend, notre dame will face no. 14 indiana, duke and navy. when indiana last raced april 17 at the clemson invitational, they placed second in their first varsity eight (6:45.5), sec­ond varsity eight (6:51.9) and second varsity four (7:37.3). in their first varsity four, the hoosiers placed fifth at 7:51.6. 
in their last race on april 9, duke lost in five races against then-no. 3 virginia. 
also on april 9, navy went 4-0 at the george washington invitational against miT and george washington. 
“i think indiana is ranked ahead of us nationally and did very well this past weekend at the events they were at,” stone said. “duke, conference foe, has shown some speed in some of their boats through­out the spring, so they’re al­ways a challenge. and navy’s gaining some speed it looks like, so that’s why it comes back to we just gotta do our thing. it’s not offense and defense or denying their wa­ter or anything like that so it’s all about making our boats be in the moment and not worry about what’s going on around us except our speed.” 
last weekend all of the irish boats improved their times from saturday to sunday, and stone again emphasized that their main goal for this up­coming weekend is progress. 
“our focus is more on the process and the effort and doing that and letting the re­sults come from that,” stone said. “so we put in max effort and believe in the process. Then we’ll be in good shape. [our main goals] are to go as fast as we possibly can. That’s what it is. whatever our max potential speed is, we want to get there. and we don’t know what that is. but when we’re done racing it’s like hey, we went as fast as we can for that day and in that race. and then we have to go from there.” 
The irish close out their reg­ular season this weekend at the dale england cup regatta in bloomington, indiana, be­fore looking forward to the acc championships starting may 13 in clemson, south carolina. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 


The observer | THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SOFTBALL | nd 7, valparaiso 3 
Irish offense in full swing against Valparaiso 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
in the second game in as many nights, no. 18 notre dame handled a nonconfer­ence opponent as the irish de­feated valparaiso 7-3. 
For the irish, (34-6, 9-3 acc) the victory over the crusaders (9-27, 4-9 horizon league) marks the 13th win against teams from indiana in the last 14 games and is the team’s 35th victory over the crusaders. 
Keeping with a theme for notre dame’s offense, the irish jumped on senior crusaders right-handed starter sierra pico. Freshman third baseman melissa rochford singled in the first inning before fresh­man designated player caitlyn brooks launched a home run that landed well over the fence and hit the back netting, scor­ing rochford and putting the irish ahead 2-0. 
To leadoff the second inning, senior second baseman carly piccinich singled and advanced to second base on a ground out. The next batter, freshman left fielder ali wester, added to the irish lead with an rbi double that was almost hauled in by junior crusaders center fielder Taylor lawson. 
The irish weren’t done, how­ever. with wester on second, rochford was hit by a pitch to put runners on first and sec­ond, and brooks walked to load the bases for senior first base­man micaela arizmendi. The huntington beach, california native walked to score wester, and sophomore shortstop morgan reed singled to score rochford and brooks before arizmendi was thrown out at the plate to end the inning with the irish up 5-0. 
“we just did a great job put­ting bat on ball,” irish head coach deanna gumpf said. “we were hitting the crud out of the ball. i just love the girls were attacking.” 
behind a fast start, junior irish starter rachel nasland put together a three-run perfor­mance, going six innings and giving up five hits. gumpf said 
see soFTball PAGE 11 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

energy flows high in elite eight 
By MANNY DE JESUS, JOE EVERETT, DOMINIC IANNELLI and R.J. STEMPAK 
sports writers 
No. 3 Drones 21, No. 6 Team 42 16 
The third-ranked drones took on the no. 6 ranked Team 42 in the first elite eight matchup of the 2016 bookstore basketball tournament. as soon as the game started it was evident the drones’ size advantage was going to be a factor. 
The drones’ center made three quick buckets on the in­side to open up the lead right out the the gate, 3-1. The game slowed down after the quick opening, as both teams played with tight 2-3 zones. strong de­fense from both kept the scor­ing low: it was just 5-2 after 10 minutes. 
while the drones relied on their size, Team 42’s offense ran through their dynamic point guard. before half the drones extended their lead to 9-6, but an immediate re­sponse from Team 42 kept it close. going into halftime, the game was tight with a score of 11-9. 
To open the second half the drones’ center grabbed five consecutive offensive re­bounds before being fouled. 
holy cross college se­nior and drones guard Karl columbus suggested their size advantage was their key to success. 
“our inside game is our big­gest strength,” columbus said. “if we keep pounding it inside we can win it all.” 
The second half began like the first, with scoring com­ing in bunches. soon after, the zones tightened up again, stalling the game at 15-12. The drones never found them­selves behind, but were unable to pull away from Team 42. 
“we had to be patient. They had some quick scrappy guys so we just couldn’t turn the ball over,” columbus said.  “we let them back into the game when we rushed it.” 
however, the drones soon found scoring from senior forward dalton wagner, who scored three layups in a row. Team 42 could not close the gap, and the drones moved on to the Final Four. 
see booKsTore PAGE 11 

BASEBALL | nd 7, cenTral michigan 6 
Vierling powers Irish to come-from-behind victory 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor 
it was the matt vierling show as notre dame walked off central michigan, 7-6, on wednesday night at Frank eck stadium. 
The irish (23-12, 9-7 acc) hadn’t been able to find the big hit it needed against the chippewas (8-29, 3-6 mac). The notre dame bats made solid contact all night but kept watching their would-be hits find the mitts of central michigan defenders, including two separate line­drive-turned-double-play incidents that smothered would-be rallies. 
Then matt vierling put a ball where no central michigan glove could get to it. 
with his team trailing 6-3 in the bottom of the seventh, runners on second and third and one out, the freshman turned on a pitch and sent it twenty feet beyond the left field wall to tie the game at six runs apiece. 
“being in the outfield, i was 
see baseball PAGE 9 






