thE iNDEpENDENt to uNcoVEr NEWSpapEr SErViNg thE truth NotrE DamE aND aND rEport SaiNt mary’S it accuratEly 

VolumE 50, iSSuE 125 | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | NDSmcobSErVEr.com 
University releases survey results 
Report shows greater awareness of sexual assault policy, available resources 
By MARGARET HYNDS 
Editor-in-chief 
the university released the results from the 2015 campus climate Survey on monday in an email to the student body, shed­ding light on the status of student perception and understanding of sexual violence on campus and related university policy. 
the email, sent from university president fr. John Jenkins, in­cluded a 28-page survey report as well as the committee on Sexual assault prevention’s (cSap) rec­ommendations moving forward and a one-page results overview. 
the questionnaire, conducted last January and february, asked questions about sexual assault and the campus atmosphere as it pertains to sexual assault, ha­rassment and misconduct. Vice president for Student affairs Erin hoffmann harding said this was the second administration of the campus climate Survey — the first occurred in the fall of 2012. 
“We do a survey every other year, and we do focus groups in the intervening years to be able to learn more information in conversations with students to compliment this overall assess­ment that we have of the entire student body,” she said. 
according to the report, the survey, which was administered to all enrolled Notre Dame 

see SurVEy PAGE 4 LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 





Service responds to award decision 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
News Writer 
responding to the university’s controversial deci­sion to honor Vice president Joe biden and former Speaker of the house John boehner with the 2016 laetare medal, stu­dents held a pro-life prayer ser­vice outside the main building on Sunday. 
in his opening remarks, se­nior timothy bradley said the gathering served as an oppor­tunity for members of the com­munity to come together in prayer, not a protest. 
“We’re gathered here to join together in prayer for a greater respect for human life, and es­pecially for Notre Dame’s com­mitment to its catholic identity and to protecting the sanctity of life at all stages,” bradley said. “i want to stress that this is a gathering for prayer, and not for protest. … i hope that in coming together here today, we may pray to our lady and to her son, both for our university and for all of us gathered here, asking for forgiveness for our own failure 
see laEtarE PAGE 5 


‘the best thing to do is stop ‘other-ing’ people’ 
coordinator at Disability grace agolia, a junior at and i think that’s something have to respect the experi-
By CATHERINE OWERS and 
Services, said. Notre Dame who is deaf and that people should enter into ences of people with disabili-
HALEIGH EHMSEN 

Senior News Writers “you might have certain uses a cochlear implant, said conversation about, ask them ties. i try to say ‘people with 
barriers that need to be she thinks “disability” is “the about, but that doesn’t mean disabilities’ instead of ‘dis­

Editor’s note: This arti-overcome to reach the same best possible term we could they are ‘differently-abled.’” abled persons’ because of the cle is the first in a series on goals,” he said. “i think some-use.” agolia said she dislikes ontological connotations.” disability at Notre Dame times with disability we tend “it’s not pejorative, in my when people say “we all have agolia said she does not and Saint Mary’s. Today’s to talk about it more as kind opinion. if you’re talking disabilities.” believe there should be a story examines the language of patronizing — that we see about words like ‘differently-“that’s just bad. because binary opposition between surrounding disability. someone with a disability as abled,’ ‘special,’ ‘abnormal-it demeans the experience of “disabled” and “non-dis­
someone who would be the ity,’ ‘defective’ — those are people who have a physical abled,” “deaf” and “not-deaf.” 

the 650 students registered recipient of our service, of pejorative terms,” she said. “i disability,” she said. “i would “yes, we have those differ-with the Sara bea center for our goodwill, type of thing. especially don’t like ‘differ-agree that we all have things ent experiences, but there Students with Disabilities So more of an approach of, ently-abled’ because it just that set us back, but disabil-doesn’t have to be a dichoto­have the same abilities, in-‘We’re providing these ser-avoids the fact that the per-ity is a very specific type of my — the experiences can be terests, motivations and vices and accommodations son has a disability. yes, peo-setback, and i don’t think integrated, in order desires as the rest of the stu-more for equality, giving ple with disabilities have a that’s something that can dent body, Scott howland, them equal access.’” differing perspective on life, be applied to everyone. you see DiSability PAGE 5 

NEWS PAGE 3 ViEWpoiNt PAGE 6 ScENE PAGE 9 ND WomEN’S lacroSSE PAGE 16 football PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, Notre Dame, iN 46556 024 South Dining hall, Notre Dame, iN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen                      cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinkski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: Erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: Susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: Emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 
Dame du lac and Saint mary’s college.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-chief, managing Editor, assistant 
managing Editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 

post office information the observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, iN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices poStmaStEr Send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, iN 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 

News Sports 

Katie galioto marek mazurek courtney becker rachel o’grady lucas masin-moyer 
Graphics Scene 

lauren Weldon Jimmy Kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 
Kathryne robinson claire radler 
Corrections 

the observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
What is your favorite thing about spring or summer? 

Sam Cavender 
sophomore 
Duncan hall 
“a scoop of ice cream. i do like ice cream.” 
Sarah Cruz 
sophomore 
pasquerilla East hall 
“hammocks and dynamics.” 
Sarah Olson 
sophomore pasquerilla East hall 
“the clothing — less-constricting clothing.” 

Kaela Crowley 
sophomore pasquerilla East hall 
“flip flops.” 
Erin Bradford 
sophomore pasquerilla East hall 
“boats.” 
Julianna Yee 
sophomore pasquerilla East hall 
“the beach.” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Monday  Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
Women’s Lacrosse  ND Votes: Pizza, Pop,  Softball vs.  Mindful Meditation  “Jumping Scale”  
vs. USC  and Politics  Valparaiso  Coleman-Morse  Flanner Hall  
Arlotta Stadium  Geddes Hall  Melissa Cook Stadium  Center  3:30 p.m. - 5 p.m.  
4 p.m.  5 p.m. - 6 p.m.  6 p.m.  5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m.  Lecture discussing  
The Irish take on the  Discussion will center  The Irish take on the  Open to students,  Irish novel and the city  
Trojans.  on U.S. foreign policy.  Crusaders.  faculty and staff.  of Dublin.  
Andean Health and  Softball vs. Western  MFA Thesis Readings  Lecture, “Critique or  “As You Like it”  
Development lecture  Michigan  DeBartolo Performing  Dialogue”  DeBartolo Performing  
Morris Inn  Melissa Cook Stadium  Arts Center  DeBartolo Hall  Arts Center  
7 p.m.  6 p.m.  7 p.m. - 9 p.m.  5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m.  7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m.  
Talk by Dr. David  The Irish take on the  Creative writing  Discussion of  World premiere, based  
Gauss, class of 1984.  Broncos.  students speak.  humanist inquiry.  on Shakespeare.  

Notre Dame unveils The Shirt 2016 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate News Edior 
this football season the Notre Dame student section will be decked out in royal blue, the official color of the Shirt 2016. 
president of the Shirt committee, senior molly howell, said the choice of color came after the committee saw success with a similar version in 2011. 
“We wanted something different and bold, and we wanted the color to look really great in the stadium,” howell said. “the 2011 royal blue Shirt did very well, and so after care­ful consideration we decided to do another bright blue. We like to have samples on hand so we know the ex­act color we’re getting and that takes time too. this year we went with a custom royal blue.” 
the committee decided to honor the late university president Emeritus, fr. theodore hesburgh, with two ex­cerpts from a quote he gave in an in­terview to Sports illustrated in 1958, after the university came under criti­cism for the firing of football coach terry brennan. 
“We wanted to honor [fr. hesburgh] in an appropriate way. last year he passed after the design was finalized, so we couldn’t majorly change the design. We did add his initials to the sleeve last year though. So this year it felt right to pay tribute again in a big­ger way,“ howell said. 
in the interview, hesburgh said, “there is no academic virtue in play­ing mediocre football and no aca­demic vice in winning a game that by all odds one should lose ... there has been a surrender at Notre Dame, but it is a surrender to excellence on all fronts, and in this we hope to rise above ourselves with the help of god.” the excerpts “rise above our­selves” and “surrender to excellence” are featured on the back of this year’s Shirt. 
“We loved the message it sent about always trying to get better and strive for excellence on all fronts,” howell said. “We then started to build around the design, including the championship year banners, the leprechaun, and the end zone marks. the front came together later, and i really wanted to use a football graph­ic instead of justing going with ‘Notre Dame football’ as we’d done in the past. after working to match the look on the back, i think we got it.” 
according to howell, this year the committee decided to switch the fab­ric back to 100 percent cotton. 
“this year’s Shirt is softer than some past 100 percent cotton ones, however, because it goes through a special wash process,” howell said. 
howell said the process was long but ultimately rewarding for her and the rest of the committee. 
“the Shirt has hands-down been one of the best and more influential parts of my time at Notre Dame. it’s an amazing project, and i have learned so much during my four years on the committee. it takes a lot of planning, organization and teamwork to run each year,” she said. 
howell said the design received positive reviews from both the foot­ball team and irish head coach brian Kelly. 
“We meet with coach Kelly before the unveiling, and he said very posi­tive things about this year’s design and color,” howell said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 


NDSmcobSErVEr.com | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | thE obSErVEr 


Saint mary’s breaks ground on new athletic facility 
By MARTHA REILLY 
associate Saint mary’s Editor 
the groundbreaking of the new angela athletic and Wellness complex on friday strengthened the comprehensive mission at Saint mary’s to educate students’ minds, souls and bodies. 
president carol ann mooney said she recognizes the universal value of building a new workout facility, so she wanted to begin construction as soon as possible. 
“all will have a place here — whether they are practicing for Saturday’s game, squeezing in a workout between classes and din­ner or simply looking for a place to gather with friends,” mooney said. “it was my dream that we would be able to break ground for this fa­cility before my retirement.” 
Sarah belanger Earley, a mem­ber of the president’s circle, said the college initially planned to upgrade the current angela athletic facility, but realized a more dramatic transformation was needed. 
“it soon became very clear to us that a different kind of renovation needed to take place,” Earley said. “true to our holy cross heritage, we assessed the needs of the time and quickly saw that health and fitness are key priorities for today’s women.” 
according to Earley, more than 1,400 donors recognized the college’s need for improvement and contributed to this project. 
“this milestone is not the re­sult of isolated board decisions or meetings with architects,” Earley said. “it is the product of the inten­tional investment of alumnae and friends in the health and wellness of Saint mary’s students.” 
according to colleen ryan, a member of the president’s circle, the Saint mary’s community should adapt to the evolving needs of its members. 
“When the current angela athletic facility was built in the 1970s, women’s interest in physi­cal activity was largely limited to athletic teams, and even those were far different from the teams we have today,” ryan said. “in the 40 years since its construction, a focus on fitness and wellness has emerged among the students of Saint mary’s and across the country. this shift has revolution­ized the way we think about ath­letic facilities and emphasize[d] the importance of buildings that serve all students, not just varsity athletes.” 
ryan said she hopes the new resources in the angela athletic Wellness complex will appeal to everyone. 
“a tennis player will be able to practice in the field house during the winter,” she said. “a yoga en­thusiast will have plenty of space to teach a group of fellow students in a dedicated classroom. … a stu­dent who decides to make fitness a part of her life will be able to find an open treadmill after classes.” 
ryan said the building will in­clude counseling services, provid­ing students with easier access to mental health resources that will enhance their college experiences. 
“Students will be more aware of the services available to them and have options across a wide variety of offices all in one building,” ryan said. “the new angela athletic and Wellness complex will create a future that emphasizes com­prehensive wellness, establishing healthy habits and patterns in the lives of every student that will last a lifetime.” 
beth culligan, board of trustees member, said she hopes athletes benefit from convenient access to workout materials and training 

paiD aDVErtiSEmENt 

spaces. 
“the current facilities really do hold our students and coaches back,” culligan said. “With this new building, Saint mary’s will be able to offer student athletes a top­of-the-line experience for both practice and competition.” 
this construction calls atten­tion to the importance of balanc­ing fitness and schoolwork, as both teach invaluable lessons, culligan said. 
“for many Saint mary’s stu­dents, athletics are an irre­placeable part of their college experience and a context for growth and learning,” culligan said. “membership on a team, as we all know, builds character and collaborative skills while fostering self-motivation and discipline.” 
Kathleen conley taiclet, class of 1985, said she envisions the angela athletic and Wellness complex as a location for students to form connections and bond over a shared value of health. 
“the cafe, full of healthy op­tions, will serve as the perfect location for a student to grab a post-workout smoothie or to take a snack break with her study group,” taiclet said. “Students can find a spot in one of the numer­ous lounges to work on a paper or to connect with friends. these spaces will not only enhance and strengthen relationships among the students — they will also help infuse the community with an emphasis on health and wellness.” 
taiclet said she hopes the new facility serves as a support system, since college is often the first time people make independent deci­sions about nutrition and exercise. 
“it is our hope that angela athletic and Wellness complex will become a social and cultural hub on campus where students can learn to incorporate fitness and health into their daily rou­tines,” taiclet said. “Students will graduate from Saint mary’s with lifelong friendships and the sup­port they need to pursue health and wellness throughout their lives.” 
Sr. michelle germanson, board of trustees member, said the friendships students form at the angela athletic and Wellness center will promote an atmo­sphere of acceptance and comfort on campus. 
“connection is why we are here,” germanson said. “belonging is what holds Saint mary’s commu­nity together.” 
germanson said the new com­plex will enable students to em­brace healthier and more active lifestyles that will expand the Saint mary’s community. 
“this is a dream that i know is going to affect student life, and i know is going to bring the people all over the place to this home,” germanson said. “how can they not want to be here?” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
College honors Mooney’s legacy 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
News Writer 
a tribute Dinner honoring the legacy of college president carol ann mooney included the unveiling of an official portrait, the praise of students and alumnae and the presen­tation of two awards friday night. mooney, who has led the college for 12 years, will be re­tiring in may. 
During her time with the college, mooney demon­strated extraordinary leader­ship, colleen ryan, member of the president’s circle, said. mooney’s accomplishments include overseeing the suc­cessful capital campaign “faith always, action Now,” the creation of three graduate programs and negotiating an unprecedented land purchase 
with  the Sisters  of  the  holy  
cross.  
“carol  strengthened  the  

mind, body and soul of this in­stitution,” ryan said. “She has been profoundly invested in the institution and brought others to the table who are equally in­vested. her legacy will continue long after may 31 and will serve our next president well.” 
malea Schulte, class of 2014 and past member of the board of trustees, and tom black, current member of the board of trustees, unveiled the official portrait of mooney. the portrait was painted by Daniel adel. 
black said presidential por­traits, such as the one of former college president madeleva Wolff, are visual records of a college’s heritage. 
“When we look down the row of presidents in the library we see a narrative of strong lead­ers, who worked to build Saint mary’s into what we enjoy to­day,” he said. “and now it’s al­most time for carol’s presidency to be archived and preserved in the institution’s memory. We want to be sure that future gen­erations remember the won­derful job she did, her profound leadership and her commit­ment to Saint mary’s college.” 
following dinner, Kelly Walsh, president of the alum­nae association board of di­rectors, presented the title of honorary alumnus, a title given only six times in school history, to mooney’s hus­band george Efta. the title of honorary alumnus is given to honor someone who has shown an extraordinary dedication to Saint mary’s college and its mission, students, faculty, staff and alumni, Walsh said. Efta has shown notable support of the college’s mission through a variety of means, including traveling to alumni tailgates, supporting mooney and sup­porting students at athletic events and performances. 
“though the recipient never stepped forth here as a student, they have pursued a member­ship with the Saint mary’s com­munity that is comparable to any alumna. they are someone the college is proud and eager to claim as one of its own,” she said. 
While previous recipients were given a Saint mary’s college class ring, the board commissioned a lapel pin with the signature design found on top of the college’s class ring for Efta, Walsh said. 
“his partnership with carol has provided a remarkable ex­ample of marriage for our stu­dents and benefited our entire community,” Walsh said. 
Student body vice president maddie Kohler, sophomore princess mae Visconde and senior Jennifer Vosters also reflected on mooney’s legacy. (Editor’s note: Jennifer Vosters is a Viewpoint columnist.) 
burke then honored mooney with the inaugural presenta­tion of the moreau medal, an honor created in 2007 by the Saint mary’s college board of trustees to commemorate the beautification of blessed basil moreau, the founder of the holy cross sisters, priests and broth­ers, she said. 
“the purpose of this med­al is to recognize outstand­ing individuals whose lives demonstrate extraordinary achievement or contributions to society,” burke said. 
burke said mooney’s trans­formational presidency in­cludes many outstanding moments such as a trip to rome to present over 200 let­ters from young catholic wom­en to pope francis, exceeding the goal of the college’s largest fundraising campaign, “faith always action Now,” despite its timing during the econom­ic recession, the construction and renovation of multiple campus buildings, the addi­tion of graduate programs, a land purchase from the Sisters and a significant increase of faculty and students from historically-underrepresented groups. 
after accepting the moreau medal, mooney gave thanks to those in attendance. 
“usually this dinner is known as the donor recognition din­ner,” mooney said. “right now, i want it to be that. because there is no success at Saint mary’s without you … your love of Saint mary’s and your generos­ity ensures that a Saint mary’s education will continue to be excellent, and it will be here for our daughters, our grand­daughters, and their daughters. … there is nothing i can say, except a profound and heartfelt thank you.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 


thE obSErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | NDSmcobSErVEr.com 

intercourse (defined as “any sexual personal reputation (61 percent) us really have on campus.” said. “it’s not true, and it’s not going 
Survey 
intercourse without your consent; and “afraid to get in trouble for oth-in addition to assessing student to be treated that way.” 
continued from page 1 
it includes oral, anal or vaginal er violations of university policies” attitudes and personal experienc-hoffmann harding said the re-

penetration, to any degree with (56 percent). es, the questionnaire also provides sponses to that question would undergraduate and graduate stu-any object”) while a student at Jenkins said the latter barrier, a general assessment of student shape how the university trains dents, had a completion rate of 38 Notre Dame. which pertained mostly to pa-knowledge of university policy as students in the immediate future. percent — 33 percent among male additionally, 16 percent of sur-rietals and underage drinking it relates to sexual misconduct, ha-“it’s safe to say, we will incor­students and 43 percent among fe-vey respondents — 25 percent of fe-violations, reflected a misunder-rassment and assault. porate that particular piece of in-male students. male respondents and six percent standing of university policy. in comparison to 2012, knowl-formation into every mandatory 
Deputy title iX coordinator of male respondents — reported “there’s some reluctance to re-edge and understanding of con-training that we have for students, heather ryan said the response experiencing non-consensual porting because people feel they’re sent — and who has the capacity to now that we’ve learned that that’s a rate was sufficient to draw conclu-sexual intercourse or other forms going to be accused of a parietals give it — has generally improved. real point of difference in terms of sions about the campus as a whole, of non-consensual sexual contact violation or some other thing, and the 2015 survey reported 94 per-policy awareness among the stu­but she hoped to increase the num-while enrolled at Notre Dame. that’s not true,” he said. “We won’t cent of students said students in a dents,” she said. ber of responses for the next ad-hoffmann harding said these do that, because we think sexual current or previous dating or sex-in conjunction with the release ministration of the survey. numbers reflect a national trend, assault is so serious.” ual relationship could not assume of the survey results, Jenkins, 
“i think we are comfortable in but also give the administration a the survey also looked at barriers consent, compared to 84 percent hoffmann harding, ryan and a that number in using the results to better idea of how many students to reporting for third parties or wit-in 2012. additionally, 93 percent number of other university ad-really evaluate our programming chose to not report sexual miscon-nesses. While the strongest listed of 2015 respondents said a person ministrators will participate in a and our efforts,” ryan said. “i do duct or assault to the university. barrier to reporting was “respect-“incapacitated by alcohol or other town hall meeting Wednesday at think, as an assessment subcom-“We’re not unlike any other in-ing the wishes of the victim who substances” was considered un-7:30 p.m. in Debartolo 102. mittee, we would like to get better stitution in the country in this is-would rather not report it,” with 72 able to give consent, compared to Jenkins said he hoped the town results and response rates.” sue nationally,” she said. “there’s percent of respondents listing it as 88 percent of 2012 respondents. hall would continue the conversa-
Jenkins said friday the re-under-reporting of the numbers. a serious barrier, 59 percent of re-however, the responses to the tion about the survey results, and sults reflected both encouraging i’m troubled in two ways — one spondents also listed “would rather following question left many ad-offer an opportunity to address stu­changes in student perceptions is the reports aren’t coming to us. stay out of it” as a serious barrier. ministrators perplexed: “Does dents’ questions about the survey. and attitudes since 2012, but also most importantly, so we can offer “that was one of the more dis-a person’s level of intoxication “this has to be a common effort, unsettling numbers in terms of the support, help and response. but couraging results in the survey for change their responsibility to ob-and, if i have anything to say, it’s current situation. secondly, that they’re happening at me,” hoffmann harding said. “in tain consent to sexual activity?” to urge everyone to be aware and 
“i didn’t find anything in there all, and that they’re happening to a community where we talk about thirty percent of the 2015 respon-to do what they can to eliminate that jumped out or was terribly that degree.” being a family, and we specifically dents said yes. university policy sexual assault from this commu­surprising,” he said. “there’s so-the “perceived barriers educate on being our brother and stipulates that a person’s level of intox-nity,” he said. “it is so profoundly at bering news, and some good news. preventing Victims from sister’s keepers, i think we’re all ication does not lessen their burden to odds with who we are and what we it seems that we’re making prog-reporting” section of the report called and we’re all obligated to re-obtain consent for sexual activity. stand for.” ress in some areas, but in others we compiles the questions that asked ally help our fellow students in this Jenkins cited the statistic and need to do more work.” students what would make them situation here. its relevant policies as an area in News Editor Katie Galioto and 
among the more sobering num-less likely to report sexual harass-“ … i don’t want that to be a bar-which the university needs to fo-Managing Editor Kayla Mullen bers found in the report, six percent ment, misconduct or assault. the rier,” she said. “i’m confused and cus education. contributed to this story. of female respondents and two per-strongest perceived barriers were a discouraged as to why it is, and it’s “the idea that intoxication di­cent of male respondents reported reluctance to discuss details of the a conversation that i hope the re-minishes one’s responsibility — we Contact Margaret Hynds at experiencing non-consensual incident (64 percent), fear for one’s lease of this information will help have to be clear that’s not true,” he mhynds@nd.edu 
paiD aDVErtiSEmENt 



NDSmcobSErVEr.com | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | thE obSErVEr 


Disability 
coNtiNuED from pagE 1 
to have a fuller vision of what the world is, of what our existence is like,” she said. “it lends us new per­spectives into the human experience.” 
Elizabeth anthony, a se­nior at Notre Dame who has autoimmune condi­tions, said there is a sense of discomfort in discussing disabilities. 
“but i think that’s kind of a societal thing — disabilities make people uncomfort­able, i think,” she said. “and i think it makes people with invisible disabilities really uncomfortable to identify themselves as disabled be­cause number one, they feel like other people won’t un­derstand, and number two, it can be a very defeating thing to yourself, to say, ‘i need these extra things.’ 
“Especially because — i mean, in high school, i slept six hours a night and i ran cross country, and i did everything and i thought it was awesome. and then coming in my freshman year, i had to be signifi­cantly knocked down a few notches, usually by getting sick. So i’d be pushing my­self too hard and i’d get sick and i’d be like, ‘oK, i need to step back.’ 
“and it’s really hard to ad­mit that to yourself when you’re used to living a cer­tain way, so i think that’s part of it too. people may not want to admit that they need the help that they might have to offer.” 
megan crowley, a fresh­man at Notre Dame, has pompe disease, which pro­gressively weakens muscles. 
Editor’s note: Crowley spoke to The Observer with the as­sistance of her nurse, Debbie Larsen, who is quoted below. 
crowley said she doesn’t see the word “disability” as a bad thing. 
“She knows she has a dis­ability, she embraces the fact that she has a disability. She can, however, see that someone might find that offensive. but for her, she knows she has a disability. if someone uses it in a negative way to hurt you, then that would be a problem, but she doesn’t think it’s always of­fensive,” larsen said. 
Jessica ping, a freshman at Notre Dame who has chilD syndrome, said she does not look at herself as disabled. 
“i get that that is the con­notation that comes with being as i am, so i don’t mind the word, but i would never describe myself as that,” she said. “i would never put that in my top descriptors of myself as a person because i think it’s beyond the disability. i’m just an average teen-aged girl trying to survive college.” 
ross Kloeber, a first-year Notre Dame law student who is hard of hearing, said he does identify as disabled. 
“i am disabled, i have a disability. maybe at some point, i was more reserved about it. i don’t necessarily feel like it’s a bad thing any­more,” he said. 



“the best thing to do is stop ‘other-ing’ people,” Kloeber said. 
“Sometimes with disabil­ity, when it is visible you can kind of pick something out and realize that they’re dif­ferent than you — and that’s really not a distinction be­cause everybody’s different than you,” he said. 
bridget Dedelow, a se­nior at Saint mary’s who has cerebral palsy, said the phrase “differently able” downplays the actual dis­ability, and that there seem to be two sides of the spectrum: people who try to overcompensate with wording and people who are offensive. 
“i’ve had people call me a cripple, and that’s just rude,” she said. “there will always be a negative conno­tation — there isn’t a happy word for disabled. people with disabilities do live su­per happy lives, but it’s not always recognizable on the surface.” 
Dedelow said she has stopped trying to hide her disability. 
“i hid for a lot of years 
— sat up straighter [and] walked more smoothly, try­ing to overcompensate and that’s exhausting,” she said. “it wasn’t an epiphany mo­ment, but i tried to hide out of fear of isolation and i was able to let that go. … it’s not about comparing myself, it’s about coming to that understanding.” 
people with disabilities are not “less valid,” but “less able in some ways,” Dedelow said. 
“i want ‘open-minded’ stamped on people’s fore­heads, because if you don’t talk to people about it you won’t know,” she said. 
fiona Van antwerp, a sophomore at Saint mary’s, said she has become com­fortable talking about her dyslexia. 
“at times i wished i didn’t have dyslexia be­cause it’s frustrating, but once i learned how to com­pensate for it, i’m alright,” she said. 
accepting her disability hasn’t been easy, but Van antwerp said her parents’ acceptance and love for her helped her to accept her dyslexia. 
“my mom when i was lit­tle tried to find out every­thing she could about how to help me,” she said. “if they can accept [my dys­lexia], then i can accept it.” 
News Writers Megan Valley and Madison Jaros contributed to this story. 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at  hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Laetare 
coNtiNuED from pagE 1 
to bring the gospel of life to those around us, and asking for the strength to serve as com­pelling witnesses to our faith in the midst of our culture.” 
Senior hailey Vrdolyak said she hoped the prayer service would also help students un­derstand the purpose of the laetare medal. 
“from our experience we saw that there are a lot of stu­dents on campus who are kind of misinformed about the purpose of the laetare medal and the caliber of people that deserve the laetare medal,” Vrdolyak said. “the laetare medal is given to american 
“I think it’s important to show the administration that there are students who are willing to speak up for what we believe they should be doing.” 
Alexandra DeSanctis 
senior 
catholics for their service to the church in public life and … we don’t believe that either boehner or biden has really done a lot to deserve it, espe­cially biden.” 
Senior alexandra DeSanctis said biden’s public stances that directly conflict with catholic teachings set him apart from boehner. 
“the positions that [biden] holds, many of them, such as being in favor of abortion and being in favor of the re­definition of marriage, are in defiance to non-negotiable teachings of the catholic church,” DeSanctis said. “With John boehner, the things where he disagrees with catholic teaching are prudential mat­ters, such that catholics can disagree on them and still be considered faithful catholics. … i don’t really think boehner has done much to deserve it ei­ther [because] he hasn’t done much for the church in his public service.” 
Senior Janelle Wanzek, presi­dent of Notre Dame right to life, said she is sad to see the university award the laetare medal to two recipients she be­lieves to be undeserving of the honor. 
“We are concerned for our university in light of the recent announcement of the laetare medal recipients, as we believe that they have lost sight of the truth, that truth being the un­deniable right to life of every human being,” Wanzek said. “the laetare medal bears the latin inscription … ‘the truth is ready and it shall prevail.’ it’s saddening to see that this medal is going to two men who have not been upholding the truth of the sanctity of human life.” 
Wanzek said those in atten­dance to pray for biden and boehner to reconcile their catholicism with their public service. 
“although people may lose their way and lose the sight of the right to life, absolutely nothing can diminish the god-given dignity of every human being,” she said. “thus, we must pray for those who have lost sight of the necessary respect for life, such as Vice president Joe biden, former Speaker of the house John boehner and the awarding committee of the laetare medal. We need to pray for them to regain their respect for life and for human dignity from conception until natural death.” 
Vrdolyak said university president fr. John Jenkins’ re­sponse to criticism of this de­cision didn’t offer any further clarity. 
“he kept saying he was look­ing forward to the possibility and the opportunity to explain his position, but i didn’t really get any further explanation other than what was already released,” Vrdolyak said. “he praised biden and boehner for their public service and their legacy, but he did not mention anything about their catholic service, which i think needs to be mentioned if he’s going to justify awarding the laetare medal to them.” 
DeSanctis said while she doesn’t believe the decision will be changed, she ultimately wanted to give students the op­portunity to demonstrate their disagreement. 
“i think it’s important to show the administration that there are students who are willing to speak up for what we believe they should be doing,” she said. “No one really expects them to rescind the award or anything, but just to let them know that there are very faith­ful catholic students who want them to hear us, i think that’s very important.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



thE obSErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | NDSmcobSErVEr.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

an author’s note 

Catherine Owers 
Senior News Writer 

“hi y’all, my name is catherine owers, i’m an English major from New orleans and i live in Walsh hall.” 
aside from the addition of a theology major, i’ve used this exact phrase countless times in the past four years, giving my “Notre Dame introduction” to classes, new friends and tour groups. my name, hometown, residence hall, course of study and use of “y’all” play a large role in how i choose to represent myself 
— as an expatriated Southern belle who re­ally likes books and lives in the best dorm on campus. 
the words we use to describe ourselves matter; the words we use to describe other people matter. 
this week, the News department is running a series on disability at Notre Dame and Saint mary’s. as the Senior News Writer coordinat­ing the series, i gave great thought as to what kind of story could provide the best founda­tion for the conversations we wish to spark across the Notre Dame and Saint mary’s cam­puses. and in the end, the English major in me decided the best place to start would be on the language of disability itself. 
We’ve talked to several students and ad­ministrators about accommodations and ser­vices currently available to students, faculty and staff, and gathered stories of students on both campuses. yet how can we begin to talk about disability at Notre Dame and Saint mary’s if we are unsure of the language to use in our conversations? 
the ap stylebook, which governs our newsroom, offers brief guidance, stating, “in general, do not describe an individual as disabled or handicapped unless it is clearly pertinent to a story. if a description must be used, try to be specific.” other organizations go further and advocate for “people-first” language, preferring “people with disabili­ties” to “disabled persons.” None of these guides are wrong, but they fall short of the task we’re undertaking. 
for individuals with visible disabilities, our language can serve to reinforce their dif­ference, can highlight the separation they already feel. for people with invisible disabili­ties, our language can struggle to adequately represent their disabilities and to adequately represent the reality of their separation. 
people with disabilities are not a homog­enous group and the perspectives provided throughout the week are not simply those of “students with disabilities,” but valued mem­bers of our community, brothers and sisters, who have a variety of opinions on how they talk about themselves and wish to be seen. these perspectives are unified in their desire for respect and desire for deeper engagement, yet they have great diversity in the language and viewpoints they promote. 
i invite you to read the piece in today’s paper, and remain conscious of how we talk with and about members of our community, as this series delves into the stories of our classmates. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Republicanism at a crossroads 
Kyle Palmer 
mr. precedent 
on march 30, chris matthews pressed Donald trump on his abortion stance; after initially side­stepping the question, trump stated that women should be punished if they get an abortion, as­suming abortion would be illegal at that time. Now, trump has walked that stance back, “clari­fied” it, and ultimately restated it, but that’s not the specific issue i would like to address. instead, i would like to discuss what i see as a crossroads for the republican party, one even more drastic than the crossroads it navigated in 2010, 2012 and 2014 with the advent of new movements from tea partiers and libertarians challenging the moderate mainstream. it’s a crossroads between two paths, one that i call hardline conservatism and another i call compassionate conservatism. 
for years, and increasingly so during the elec­tion cycle, i have been asked what i believe and how i identify politically, from outside or within the republican party. i’ve known since 2010 that i was a moderate republican, but as elections went on it was more and more difficult to explain where and why i differ with the platform of the party or its increasingly harsh conservative tone. What i’ve arrived at is describing myself as a compassionate conservative of my own brand. 
to explain, let’s go back to trump’s comments regarding punishment for women who have abor­tions. the day after these comments were made, a friend and i discussed them at length. this friend, who is by no means a trump supporter, explained how he perceived this as the most logically consis­tent stance that trump has posited so far. “if abor­tion is made to be illegal, as many republicans believe it should be, then why is it so outrageous,” he argued, “to believe women should be punished for breaking the law by having an abortion?” this argument was logically sound, though i definitely disagreed with it. i am as pro-life as they come, i am opposed to abortion, capital punishment and euthanasia, and i believe these practices should be outlawed. Still, i don’t believe that women should be punished for having an abortion. pro-life groups hold this same position, as they came out against trump’s comments while reaffirming their pro-life stance. 
i proposed an analogy of drug addicts to explain my stance on the issue. in most cases, drug ad­dicts become addicted through the influence of a drug dealer, social pressures or feeling like there is no escape from their personal problems except through the artificial stimulus produced by drugs. Similarly, a woman considering an abortion may only be doing so because her parents, would-be child’s father, or planned parenthood represen­tative apply pressure to have an abortion, or she could face the social consequences of being judged for becoming pregnant before marriage. She could have faced pressure from her boyfriend, friend group, or social pressures regarding sex between young adults. in both cases, the victim may have fallen into the unfortunate circumstance of drug use or having an abortion with the fault resting with those who sought to influence the victim. to be clear, i am not equating drug addiction with women who get abortions; i am simply analogiz­ing to illustrate how i view both to be victims of social pressures. 
yes, ideally the victims would have the fortitude to resist such pressures, but given the immense pressure bearing down on them as minors or young adults, they may simply not be able to make that decision. all this goes to say is that i view the drug addict or the would-be-mother as victims of social pressures or, more insidiously, drug dealers or abortion clinicians who stand to profit from the victim’s succumbing to their pressure. as such, i don’t feel that nonviolent drug addicts or young women who believed they had no choice but to have an abortion should be punished. rather, the punishment should rest on the shoulders of those who force the decision, in this case the drug deal­ers and abortion clinicians. 
this distinction explains why i want drugs and abortion to be banned but at the same time balk at the idea that addicts and women should be pun­ished for receiving them. instead, these victims need our assistance and compassion. Drug addicts need to be admitted to facilities that can help cure them of their addiction. pregnant women need to be given the opportunity to make their own deci­sions free of pressures of anxious boyfriends and abortion clinicians. in both cases, these victims need a bit of compassion from all of us. if we didn’t make harsh judgments of pregnant young women or young drug addicts, then maybe they wouldn’t be so ashamed to ask for help. crack down on those who encourage this detrimental behavior, the abortion clinicians and drug dealers, but not on the victims who may feel as if they do not have a choice. 
thus is highlighted a difference between what i see as hardline conservatism, which would pun­ish all involved with no exception for violation of the rule of law, and compassionate conservatism, which would seek to understand the issue, help the victims who may have violated the law and punish those who are at fault for the victim’s helplessness. Simply put, compassionate conservatism acknowl­edges that issues are complicated, and while i have a set of moral principles, i shouldn’t seek to condemn violators of those principles without first investigating who might really be at fault. We republicans need to reject hardline conservatism and instead seek to understand problems and find solutions that magnify the dignity of all people, like paul ryan on poverty or ronald reagan, Jeb bush and John Kasich on immigration. as time goes on, the american electorate will support less and less policies that have no stake in understand­ing or no purpose behind them. if the republican party is to survive the next few election cycles, it needs to adopt a belief in a government that works toward real justice and a tone that inspires people, and it needs to promote those candidates that es­pouse the same tone and beliefs. 
Kyle Palmer is a senior from Dillon Hall studying  accountancy. He welcomes any challenges to his  opinions. He can be reached at kpalmer6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



the storm on the horizon 
Devon Chenelle 
the gadfly 

aldous huxley’s 1932 novel “a brave New World” is in­creasingly found to track more closely to 21st century life’s worst features than does the other great dystopian vision, “1984,” as huxley’s portrayal of social control by consent supersedes in contemporary relevance orwell’s depiction of steel-booted totalitarian dictatorship. though the por­tions of huxley’s nightmarish landscape most often com­pared with modern life are its shallow media enhanced by sense titillation and its rampant consumerism, the most terrifying potential parallel with our world is first hinted at in its educational system. the system uses hypnopaedic indoctrination and pavlovian conditioning to produce individuals perfectly suited for their all-determining social caste, aided in this effort by fetal chemical manipulation. of course, such engineered hierarchical division of human so­ciety seems so foreign as to be unimaginable in our world. 
yet not so long ago, maintenance and production of the social order through bio-chemical manipulation was wildly popular, endorsed by such potentates as theodore roosevelt and Winston churchill. classical sources con­sidered artificial selection’s potential to reshape mankind, with plato advocating the notion in “the republic.” two thousand years later, eugenics became one of the 19th and 20th centuries’ cause célèbres, with parts of america and Europe passing sweeping eugenics legislation that sometimes included provisions for forced sterilization. Eugenicists, awestruck at artificial selection’s power and inspired by evolutionary theory, salivated at the potential of, in the words of francis galston, a “20th part … spent on the improvement of the breed of horses” directed towards selective breeding of mankind. racism was a power­ful force behind eugenics’ propagation, as certain races’ alleged biological inferiority was cited in attempts to justify slavery and wild interpretations of Darwinism argued inferior individuals’ and races’ destruction was just and inevitable. the Nazis’ fever dream of a blond-haired, blue-eyed society forged through undesirables’ extermination and the coupling of ideal aryans filled the world with moral horror so profound eugenics was banished from acceptable discussion. however, eugenics still excites the imagina­tions of many who, emboldened by genetic discoveries that 
E.o. Wilson’s “Sociobiology” argues indicates “virtually every behavioral trait possesses sufficient heritability to respond rapidly to selection” question whether the past’s follies ought forever foreclose study of artificial selection in humans. 
Would-be modern eugenicists still find themselves stymied by popular disapproval of the practice. however, the debate might be rendered irrelevant by new advances in genomics, a field recently seeming to progress daily. thus far, the science’s advances have been a splendid boon, adding to the physicians’ arsenal against a host of genetic diseases, heritable disorders and cancers. yet genomics’ progress brings dangers. therapeutic cloning has made it possible to use human bodies as sources of interchangeable parts, and pro-life activists are already agonizing over genetic engineering’s potential to height­en the frequency of abortions, fearing a future where im­perfect fetuses are discarded when, in the words of Notre Dame professor of history felipe fernández-armesto’s “So you think you’re human,” “a woman can pick and choose the most perfect specimens.” 
yet the rabbit hole extends much further than the abor­tion debate. the criSpr (clustered regularly-interspaced short palindromic repeats) interference technique offers stunning abilities to modify humans’ genomes, with sci­entists in china already using the technology to modify embryos. in one triumph, scientists at guangzhou medical university used criSpr to create hiV-resistant embryos. this new technology raises concerns about stark possible consequences. as man seizes control of his own evolution, would-be social planners may marvel at genetic engineer­ing’s potential to eliminate a society’s instances of social and physical unfitness. how far, however, is this from a huxleyan world where people can be bred like domes­ticated animals, with anatomical and mental features specific to their predesignated social role? the possibility of a society determined, from unbending top to immobile bottom, by radical genetic engineering of people for a pre­ordained purpose, must chill the most optimistic geneti­cist’s spine. Where do human agency, responsibility and personal autonomy go when men are created ready-made for long-decided purpose? could our societies become so hierarchical and anatomized that they come to resemble those of the insects, where Wilson describes “soldier castes of some ant and termite species,” castes “so specialized that they function as scarcely more than organs in the body of the colony”? 
genomics’ steady march forward in power and ubiq­uity seems to augur exotic possibilities and appallingly repulsive potential applications. genomics’ progress perhaps leads to a future that defies evolution similarly to eugenicists’ hopes and their opponents’ fears, personhood surrendered to a central planning committee of human lives. yet in gaining control over our evolution, we run the terrible risk of losing sight of what it means to be human. indeed, a brave new world approaches; are we possibly ready for it? 
Devon Chenelle is a sophomore in Keough Hall. He is a history major with an Italian minor. He can be reached at dchenell@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

ND for restorative justice: call to action 
according to the catechism of the catholic church, punishment for a crime “in addition to defending public order and protecting people’s safety, has a medicinal pur­pose: as far as possible, it must contribute to the correc­tion of the guilty party.” in 1980, 32 percent of americans agreed that the primary purpose of prison was to reha­bilitate, not punish; by 1993, 61 percent of americans felt that prison was a place strictly for punishment. this shift in opinion has filled our prisons with repeat offenders, wasted taxpayers’ money, perpetuated racial discrimina­tion, and, above all, harmed our communities. the time to shift the model of our justice system is now. 
Notre Dame for restorative Justice suggests the remedy of restorative justice. the theory of restorative justice ad­dresses the needs of the victim, the community and the offenders. While we tend to think first of the needs of the victims and communities that have been harmed, restor­ative justice reminds us that most offenders have needs as well. to quote howard Zehr, the pioneer of american restorative justice, “if we are to expect [offenders] to as­sume their responsibilities, to change their behavior, to become contributing members of our communities, restorative justice assumes that these needs must be ad­dressed as well.” 
one key tenet of restorative justice is that “crime is to be viewed as a violation of the individual, rather than just as an offence against the State.” this region of indiana is already well-versed in restorative justice, as the center for community Justice in Elkhart launched the first Victim offender reconciliation program (Vorp) in the united States. We have personally seen and experienced restor­ative justice in practice in South bend through talking circles at rise up academy, reading for life (a program that has recently received attention from the White house and catholic charities) and through spending time at Dismas house, the transitional housing program here in South bend for individuals recently released from incarceration. 
in addition to our shared humanity that necessitates a more compassionate justice system, the financial dimen­sion of the current justice system demands reform, as our retributive approach is expensive for the community and the taxpayer. the state of indiana pays tremendous daily costs for juveniles and adults incarcerated in the justice system. alternatively, restorative justice programs, while sometimes expensive to put in place, ensure lower recidi­vism rates and long-term cost effectiveness. ultimately it is better to invest in community-based initiatives and legislation that focus on the respect and dignity of each person involved in a crime, such as the Second chance act and the Sentencing reform act. 
While small-scale restorative justice programs do exist throughout indiana, we are nowhere close to be­ing able to implement them statewide. Engaging the humanity of every individual and encouraging an atmosphere of love in the face of hate is necessary, but changing our laws incrementally is also required in order to enable an environment in which restor­ative justice could be widespread. the Second chance reauthorization act and the Sentencing reform and corrections act of 2015 are congress bills on the docket that could direct the legislative environment and public opinion towards a more humane, cost-effective ap­proach to justice. 
the Second chance act strengthens reentry programs ranging from job training to substance abuse treatment and provides opportunities for behavioral change that would otherwise not be available in the event of incar­ceration. the Sentencing reform and corrections act repairs the mandatory minimum sentences for prior drug felons, gives judges flexibility, broadens prison-based reentry programs and limits solitary confinement for juveniles. these bills encourage our government to invest in community-based initiatives, such as Dismas house, that seek to break the cycle of crime for the benefit of both the individual and that of society. 
as an advocacy group through the center for Social concerns, ND for restorative Justice has reached out to the South bend community to understand how these Senate bills, if passed, would impact the local communi­ty. both state institutions and local initiatives are affected by the justice system in St. Joseph county, and all those to whom we have reached out fully support these two bills. 
restorative justice, in general, has the backing of groups such as the u.S. catholic council of bishops. in their 2000 document “responsibility, rehabilitation, and restoration: a catholic perspective on crime and criminal Justice,” the council wrote, “a catholic ap­proach leads us to encourage models of restorative justice that seek to address crime in terms of the harm done to victims and communities, not simply as a violation of law.” 
are you willing to stand with ND for restorative Justice in supporting the Second chance and the Sentencing reform acts in hopes of laying the groundwork for a restorative justice system? We will be communicating their urgency at a meeting with the office of u.S. Sen. Joe Donnelly of indiana later this week; you can sign our peti­tion to take an active step in making restorative justice a reality in South bend. 
peace, 
Evelyn Bauman 
senior 
Sofia Piecuch 
senior 
Seamus Ronan 
senior 
Adrianna Duggan 
sophomore 
Kelsey Feldmeier 
sophomore april 12 


By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
Scene Writer 

the sinking is slow, cold and dismal like the siren call of a foghorn. trapped in the bowels of an industrial massive, passengers and their histories are inextricably tied to their maritime casket. they move in vertical descent down a deep blue axis of perishing; in the ship’s mortality it is the closest one such titan has ever come to humankind. it is mid-april 1912; an unsinkable ship is sinking. 
as one of brian Eno’s most outspoken zealots, i took news of his upcoming album, “the Ship,” with excitement. Eno is easily one of the most influential figures in electron­ic music since its initial flourishing around the ’70s, dur­ing which time he released the game-changing “another green World” (1975). the plastic pop abstractions on that album would foreshadow Eno’s forward-looking method­ology, yet they are utterly distinct from what would consti­tute his output just half a decade later. his series of ambient releases would revolutionize our understandings of what he termed “discreet music,” and his marriage of subtle, intricately-built electronic spaces with tangible organic sounds gave albums like “fourth World, Vol. 1: possible musics” (1980) — in collaboration with Jon hassel — more life and dimensionality than my spatial cognition could grasp. 
“apollo: atmospheres and Soundtracks” (1983) is per­haps most exemplary of this face of Eno’s creative persona, and it is the closest thing to “precedent” to which “the Ship” can lay claim. “apollo” is Eno’s idea of a soundtrack to a lunar expedition, but rather than capitalizing on the quiet calm of outer space for what would have been a 
By KATHY MINKO 
Scene Writer 

‘tis the season for closet country fans to climb out of hibernation and prepare for quintessentially american music. i can think of no better way to kickoff the summer season than country music — specifically, through the band perry. 
the trio of siblings — Kimberly, Neil and reid perry — gave a low-key performance at the four Winds casino in New buffalo, michigan, this past friday night. With a limited number of seating, audience members filed in and took their respective seats — none of which were nosebleeds. 
the small-scale seating arrangement had no effect on the crowd’s vigor. 
audience members sang and danced as the band played some of their most popular hits. from “if i Die young” to “Done,” the perry siblings drew lots of energy through each performance, urging us all to sing and dance alongside them. they even performed mash-ups of “Sweet Dreams,” “Sexy back,” “crazy” and “love yourself.” though i didn’t feel comfortable standing up until people around me started the trend, i enjoyed jumping with the band and trying to mimic their choreography — or as Kimberly lukewarm ambient lp, Eno paints the black expanses that surround our satellite with eerie, almost anxious strokes, and the alien, feral world that emerges is his impression of lunar biomass as we do not know it. 
Similarly, “the Ship” is an impressionistic approach to a concept, this time a bit more historically rooted: the infa­mous sinking of the titanic. and if recently Eno has thrived primarily via collaborations, his latest album since “lux” (2012), by harnessing some of his greatest strengths, show­cases him once again as a master of evocative atmospheres. for one, the dark, croaking latter half of the self-titled al­bum opener, replete with metallic creaking and the sound of buoyant bodies, will swallow you as oceanic death itself devours the album’s expiring protagonist, rivaling in craft the oblique landscapes Eno perfected on “ambient 4: on land” (1982). and the noisy bowels of “fickle Sun (i)” ra­diate a maddening dark energy that perfectly develops the album’s familiar theme in a wholly original way. 
the return of Eno’s own vocals is particularly welcome. Eno’s vocals, an integral element of the album’s tone, have not been this critical to his music in what feels like decades. With such strong emotive value, Eno’s melancholy bellows — deep and authoritative like the sinking liner’s horn — are an essential element of the record that feels genuinely inseparable from the sound upon which it builds. this is true of both the first and the second track, the latter of which uncannily recalls something from coil’s saturnine industrial catalogue — a good thing, mind you. 
Just as the first two tracks on “the Ship” evoke the dark­ness of tragedy and death, the final two cuts — which i should note only represent about a sixth of the album’s runtime — evoke a sort of rebirth. the brief “fickle Sun (ii) 
called it, their “forward motion together.” 
the band could have made the concert as low-key and as somber as they liked. after walking into the small venue, i thought they’d give a coffee-house style performance — contradictory to dance-all-night, bang-your-head, wish­your-wife-hadn’t-left-you country concerts. 
they shocked me by doing everything right. 
between each song — whether original or covered — the band shared a story about their journey. from sto­ries about their reactions to “if i Die young” reaching top charts in malaysia to discussing their constant adjustment to country music’s ever-changing presence in the music industry, the perry siblings let us into their lives. 
as they said many times throughout the concert, “We’re in this life together.” 
cheesy or not, i felt included during the entire perfor­mance. Each song carried a relatable message. though many lyrics were stereotypically country — “here lies the girl whose only crutch was loving one man just a little too much” — lovers of all genres could somehow place them­selves in the band’s shoes. 
ironically, they took each song both seriously and light­heartedly. before performing “better Dig two,” Kimberly told the audience that she loved writing the song, since everyone could relate to loving a person a little too much. 
the hour is thin” incorporates a moving narrative over a calm piano that recalls the earliest of Eno’s ambient pieces. Stylistically, the piece differs significantly from the lp’s massive first half, and so it seems as more of an interlude than a piece of its own. but as it quickly moves into the stir­ring “fickle Sun (iii) i’m Set free” the lp’s back half devel­ops into a meaningful — indeed indispensable — portion of the whole. as its title would suggest, the closing cut is the soundtrack to a rebirth, a sense accentuated by the piece’s poignant lyrics, uplifting instrumentation, and livelier pace. it is additional testament to Eno’s ability to effort­lessly craft any desired mood and tone, and indeed i find it to be among the best tracks of its kind within his catalogue. 
in all, “the Ship” is an accomplishment for brian Eno, a bona-fide artist whose extensive catalogue of masterpieces make it understandably difficult to top his own triumphs. but this album, in its stunning recreation of a tragedy that proves rich, moving, and uplifting by turns, stresses the fact Eno is far from having lost his touch. 
Contact Adrian Lore at asanchez11@nd.edu 
“The Ship” 
Brian Eno 
Label: Warp Records Tracks: “Fickle Sun (I),” “The Ship” If you like: Coil, Jon Hassel, Stars of the Lid 

right after that, though, she warned any engaged man in the audience that if his fiancée played the song on their wedding day, he’d have the band’s approval to leave her immediately. 
their main message: learn to laugh at yourself … even if you’ve written a chart-topper. 
after playing their most popular hits, the band intro­duced a few new songs — each prefaced with a small an­ecdote of its meaning. 
With ever-present changes in the country music indus­try — particularly the shift from twang to pop — the band perry made great strides both to progress and to maintain character. 
you could heard a difference between their old and new songs, but their messages stayed the same: Everyone has rough patches, but together, we can all make it through. 
With that said, it didn’t matter how “new” the songs sounded: the band perry stayed true to themselves through the fame, through the changes and through the constant pressure to write hits. 
the band knew how to excite a crowd. they knew how to maximize space. they knew how to make it a perry great night. 
Contact Kathy Minko at kminko@nd.edu 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 


By AUGIE COLLINS 
Scene Writer 

What’s in a name? Well, for the Dandy Warhols, it’s everything. the band’s name highlights the constant stream of witty humor and irony they have been lac­ing their songs with since they put out their first album, “Dandy’s rule oK?,” in 1994. Now the Dandies are back with their ninth studio album, “Distortland,” which pays homage to the groups’ roots in portland, oregon. Even the album cover shows a dreary, smog-covered skyline of the city. the Dandies have remained offstage and out of the limelight for quite some time, but “Distortland” sees the band slowly coming out of the shadows. if anything, the Dandies know how to produce an album that touts the trademark sound they have been cultivating over the decades. 
by having the tapes recorded in lead singer courtney taylor-taylor’s basement on an ’80s cassette recorder before handing them over to be mixed and refined, the Dandy Warhols stay true to their normal grungy, dirty sound in “Distortland.” the end result is an album that is, as taylor-taylor put it, “organized like a pop record but still has the sonic garbage still in there.” 
the album kicks off with the opener “Search party,” which consists of drawling and blurry vocals, while a syn­thesizer lends a constant and edgy heartbeat to the song. thankfully though, the best is yet to come. the poster 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 

Nostalgia is a powerful tool, but only when held in the right hands. it can give us beautiful statements that recre­ate and revitalize the soundscapes of an era, the way Daft punk’s “random access memories” did, or, if misman­aged, can give us an utter mess of dad jokes, poorly timed laugh tracks and ingratiating, irritating references, the way “fuller house” did. 
anthony gonzalez, the man behind m83, knows a thing or two about nostalgia, having harnessed the power of an ’80s neon dreamscape to create some of the best indie-pop albums of the past decade, including 2011’s opus “hurry up, We’re Dreaming” and the ubiquitous, world-conquering single from that album, “midnight city.” 
Since the commercial success of “hurry up” and the worldwide domination of “midnight city,” gonzalez has leveraged his newly-found mainstream attention and fi­nancial security to explore a number of side projects form83, including scoring the tom cruise sci-fi thriller “oblivion” and his brother’s french erotic drama “you and the Night.” but neither of these compositions matched the sentimental overhaul and thematic ambition that “hurry up” pursued. 
m83’s latest studio album, “Junk,” is, at least on the sur­face, a return to the ’80s nostalgia that encompassed “hurry up” and their prior studio efforts. but that’s about where the similarities end. last month, in a discussion with pitchfork, gonzalez decried the attitude of the legions of m83 “fans” that gravitated around “midnight city,” saying, “this is how people listen to music nowadays. they’re just gonna pick child of the album, “you are Killing me,” produces an in­fectious melody that is easy to get hooked on. the con­stant strum of peter holmstrom on the base reverberates throughout the single, making for a great pop song that could see significant air play. continuing the poppy trend, a lazy beat punctuates the album’s second single, “catcher in the rye,” which is aptly named to reflect the Dandies’ playful attitude of being different than all of those other “bland” music acts out there. the final single “Styggo” features the tap of a hand drum in the background while taylor-taylor succumbs to a few verses of “doo-doo-doos” that will have listeners humming along even if they can­not make out the raspy phrases. the lyrics in these songs are not quite as wryly poetic as previous Dandies hits, but classic Dandy Warhol beats anchor them down. 
Straying away from the use of synthesizers and sure­fire melodies, the Dandies choose to delve into a muddier sound on some of the other tracks. While this works in their favor in some instances, sometimes it flops. “all the girls in london” makes use of a wheezing accordion-like synth noise, along with cracking vocals that makes me feel as if taylor-taylor is belting out this track in a seedy bar, while onlookers stomp their feet and clap their hands. the song reminds me of Shane macgowan’s slurred ren­dition of “london girl,” and while that may have worked for macgowan, i think the Dandies missed their mark on this chaotic track. 
overall, “Distortland” produces a remarkably Dandies 
certain songs they like – one, two, if you’re lucky – and trash the rest. all else becomes junk.” 
anthony gonzalez, frustrated with this consumerist attitude, has given us what he considers to be m83’s most personal record. but it’s personal in the way that a garage sale is, uncovering bits and pieces of a former life that may or may not be, well, junk. because of this, we’ve been given a hodgepodge of songs centered around the late ’70s and early ’80s that don’t add up to a complete, well-constructed thought the way “hurry up” did. 
like most garage sales, there are quite a few treasures in this album. take for instance, album opener and first single “Do it, try it.” this track seemingly comes out of left field given m83’s prior efforts, kicking off with a bouncing, rag­time piano before ripping into a more familiar, pounding synth jam that evokes the feelings of decades gone by. this hard grip on nostalgia continues with “go!,” arguably the best song on the album. here, m83 lures us in with a swirl­ing sax piece that could’ve come off “born to run,” 16-bit video game samples and the sultry vocals of french talent mai lan before climaxing with an explosive, face-melting guitar solo by Steve Vai that would make Van halen jeal­ous. finally, there’s “Solitude,” one of the few tracks on this album that actually features gonzalez’s vocals, surround­ing them in layers of beautiful violins before ultimately cre­scendoing in a magnificent keytar solo. these songs are the real treasures of the album, a perfectly-curated collection of the knickknacks and gizmos that made up this long-gone era, showing us what’s worth loving and remember. 
but also like most garage sales, those treasures are quick­ly snatched up by the early risers, leaving the rest of us with sound that old fans will love, and new ones will be drawn to. the album presents a spread of enticing options, but listeners may be disappointed in areas where the Dandies took a risk and fell short. however, even the less-catchy tracks lend an element to the record that further ce­ments what the Dandies are all about. taylor-taylor re­marks, “i’ve got to admit i’m too old for this s***” in the last song, “the grow-up Song,” and i know in my heart this may be true. from a band that has been around for decades, this statement seems akin to flashing the peace sign and flying away, but could we blame them if they did? Something tells me the Dandies aren’t quite ready to call it quits though, and we may see another set of more mature Dandies hits in the future. 
Contact Augie Collins at jcolli15@nd.edu 
“Distortland” 
The Dandy Warhols 
Label: Dine Alone Records Tracks: “You Are Killing Me,” “Catcher in the Rye” If you like: The Jesus and Mary Chain, The Racounteurs 

useless trash. in the case of “Junk,” that trash constitutes the majority of the second half of the album. here, we get some just plain unnecessary instrumental tracks, such as “the Wizard,” “tension” and “ludivine,” that make the al­bum feel like an overstuffed experiment in testing the lim­its of our nostalgia before segueing into the tragically dull, beck-laden “time Wind,” which confirms this album dug too deep into nostalgia. that’s not to say the entire second half is unredeemable. album closer “Sunday Night 1987” has the definitively best harmonica solo of 2016. 
Despite these missteps, “Junk” is an above-average al­bum, if only for its ability to transform so many discarded elements into something truly genuine and heartfelt. the problem with this is that the authentic emotions that com­prise this album are reactionary, and that m83’s reaction to worldwide success wasn’t fully fleshed out throughout “Junk.” 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Junk” 
M83 
Label: Mute Records Tracks: “Do It, Try It,” “Solitude,” “Go!” If you like: HAIM, Tame Impala, Radiohead 



LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | Will ShortZ 


JUST ADD WATER | Eric carlSoN & JohN roDDy 
SUDOKU | thE mEpham group 



FLING BY SPRING | rilEy mccurriE HOROSCOPE | EugENia laSt 

Happy Birthday: Keeping a steady, surefooted pace will be your saving grace. opportunities are plentiful, so choose what you are able to handle and make steady gains as you go. a sudden, unexpected change in your financial situation could come from an unusual source. Keeping a clear head will help you avoid being used. your numbers are 2, 16, 23, 28, 30, 33, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): initiate changes that will help you feel healthier. love is encouraged, and socializing and sharing your plans will bring you closer to the type of life you want to live. it’s up to you to make things happen. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): get involved, make plans, network or do something special for someone you want to get to know better. Speak from the heart and express an interest in whatever you are dealing with, and you will find out valuable information. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): a practical approach to whatever you do is a much better approach than casting your fate to the wind and seeing what unfolds. take control of the situations you face and harness what you want by using your skills strategically. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): focus on partnerships. Discuss your plans with others and explore your options. Someone you meet through a friend or while traveling will spark your interest in something you might not have previously considered. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you can make professional changes, but don’t leave one job until you have found another. it’s important to be responsible and not act impulsively. collect information and update your skills before you decide to make a move. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Speak up and those around you will listen and take note of what you are proposing. your intelligence and dedication will be recognized and help you gain respect as well as an interesting position. think big, but don’t lose sight of reality. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a transformation is taking place. facing difficulties will open your eyes and your mind to new opportunities. Don’t allow anyone to steer you away from a course that can bring you happiness. believe in yourself and do as you please. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stop and take note of what is going on around you. look for unusual opportunities and search for answers to the unknown. your curiosity will lead you to more fortunate circumstances. Don’t let the choices others make lead you astray. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Expect to face difficulties if you try to push your ideas on others. if you want to make changes, focus inward and do whatever it takes to improve mentally, physically and emotionally. Do your homework and you’ll get results. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotions will be difficult to contain. Don’t hide the way you feel when expressing your opinions. make a plan to do the things that will help you achieve greater happiness. Nothing ventured, nothing gained. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): abide by the rules and you’ll avoid unexpected headaches. it’s important to put greater effort into the relationships you have with others. a change of attitude will encourage others to strive to improve as well. love is highlighted. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): take a trip that will offer you a chance to learn something new or discover what you want to do next. greater involvement in an effort to bring about positive reforms or improvements to your community should be on your agenda. 

Birthday Baby: you are adaptable, creative and precise. you are willful and organized. 
JUMBLE | DaViD hoyt aND JEff KNurEK 



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to:  Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester  the observer p.o. box 779 Notre Dame, iN 46556 
Name address city  State  Zip  



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NBA takes the most pieces to win 
R.J. Stempak 
Sports Writer 
Editor’s Note: This week, the Sports Authority columnists answer the question, “In which competition is it most difficult to win a championship?” 
the larry o’brien championship trophy is the most coveted one in all of sports, because the Nba is the most difficult league to win. the Nba is the premier basket­ball league in the world, unri­valed in talent and popularity. at the start of this season there were a total of 100 international players on Nba rosters. Every basketball player in the world dreams of playing in the Nba, and everyone who is good enough ends up there. 
Despite the large talent pool concentrated in the league, over half of the league’s teams have either one or zero champion­ships. the fact that only give players are on the court means that each player is vital to a team’s success, and finding the right combination of players to complement each other can mean the difference between being in contention for the championship or being out of the playoffs. 
the nature of the league is that teams are stuck in their position in the standings for periods of a few years at a time. rosters remain stable, and team success is dependent on the development of each team’s own players. Very rarely will a single trade turn a team into a contender. this results in teams perpetually stuck where they al­ways make the playoffs but will never actually be a contender. So every year only two or three teams every year have a realistic chance of winning it all. 
this reality forces teams who want to move up the rankings to take risks. if these risks do not pan out a team can be stuck with an old team without draft picks, like the brooklyn Nets are right now. history has shown that the most successful teams either have lebron James (heat and cavaliers) or have hit home runs on multiple draft picks in consecutive years (Warriors, thunder and Spurs). for the rest of the league it is next to impossible to win. 
the format of the playoffs also makes it very difficult to win the Nba title. the seven-game series format makes up­sets unlikely. the better team will regularly win four out of seven games against an infe­rior team, even if they give up a game or two in the series. in the Western conference over the past few seasons, there have always been three or four really good teams that you would have to beat just to make the finals. in the Eastern conference you have to get through lebron, which has not happened since 2010. 
looking through the his­tory of champions, it is easy to see how these ideas hold up. michael Jordan was by far the best player in the league when he played, and had teammates that complemented his style of play, most notably Scotty pippen. pippen was traded to the bulls soon after being drafted, and developed along­side Jordan for the beginning of his career. if the bulls had not traded for pippen that early then they would not have been able to get him and they might not have won six champion­ships in the time Jordan played for them. 
on the other side of the spec­trum, chris paul and carmelo anthony have not been lucky enough to win a champion­ship. they both moved from the teams that drafted them onto big-market teams where they became the focal point of their respective offenses. however, these teams have never been able to construct the proper supporting cast to complement their stars to lead to a cham­pionship, essentially wasting the prime years of paul and anthony’s careers. 
the Nba is the most difficult league to win a championship in because the league is top heavy and formatted so that the best teams win. if you do not have the best players and you do not have luck in the draft, you have no chance to win. might as well try your luck in another sport. 
Contact R.J. Stempal at rstempak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TRACK AND FIELD | acc/big tEN challENgE 
ND has strong showing at ACC/Big Ten Challenge 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
Sports Writer 
in one of its biggest meets of the season this past Saturday at the acc/big ten challenge, Notre Dame managed to score five first-place finishes overall against a strong field. 
as a team however, the irish came in fifth and sixth on the women’s and men’s sides respectively. 
irish head coach alan turner, though, said he was still pleased with the overall performance of his athletes. 
“our focus was not to win the louisville invite … our goal is to win acc titles and Ncaa ti­tles,” turner said. “We actually had as a program 17 personal records set. Now that’s some­thing that won’t show up on any stat sheet at the meet un­less you go through each per­son and each event, but for me this was a very productive meet for the athletes that we did take. We are progressing very well.” 
in the field events, junior thrower anthony Shivers re­corded a throw of 55.45 meters on his second throw to win the men’s discus. in the high jump, freshman matt birzer claimed second in a tight field with a jump of 2.05 meters, and soph­omore hunter holton came in fifth with the same score. 
for the women, senior thrower lena madison set the tone friday night with a 51-me­ter toss in the hammer throw, good enough for 10th place overall. madison also came in tenth in the discus, right be­hind freshman alexa coubal, who came in ninth with a throw of 43.02 meters. in the long jump, graduate student carly loeffel came in third with a 5.84-meter jump, and freshman Dominique Demoe came in 10th after jumping 
4.88 meters. rounding out the solid performances, was junior taylor craft, who came in sec­ond in the triple jump with a 11.81-meter mark. 
but it was on the track where the irish performed the best. on the men’s side, the trio of junior grant Koch (1:52.71), junior andrew Stone (1:52.85) and sophomore michael morris 
(1:55.40) came in fourth, fifth 

FOR RENT 
1 BR fully furnished includes large sunroom and laundry on 3 acres walk­ing distance to ND. Heat and water in­cluded. Month-to-month lease. $650 + $50 electric. Call 574-271-7205 

and 10th respectively in the 800-meter run, while senior aaron Dunn came in 10th in the 400-meter hurdles with a time of :55.77. 
the women had multiple first-place finishes on the day, highlighted by graduate stu­dent Kaila barber in the 100-me­ter hurdles, sophomore Sydney foreman in the 5,000-meter run, sophomore Jordan Shead in the 400-meter run and se­nior margaret bamgbose in the 200-meter run. 
“We had a lot of good perfor­mances that i’m really excited about as the season goes on,” turner said. “for the people that were there, i was very proud of the performances they put forth.” 
in the 100-meter hurdles, barber (:13.03) and loeffel (:14.27) finished first and sev­enth respectively, while the irish also won the 5,000, where foreman came in first with a time of 17:07.60, and sopho­more Kaitlin frei finished fourth in 17:25.12. Shead won the 400in :54.32, and was fol­lowed by sophomore payton miller in sixth with a :55.91-sec­ond time. in the 200, the irish placed five in the top 12, head­ed by bamgbose, who won with a time of :23.34. Junior Jamie marvil ran a 2:08 in the 800, good enough for second, and the 4x400-meter relay team of Shead, miller, senior mikaila chamblee and sophomore parker English rounded out the day with a time of 3:47, good enough for fifth. 
turner is hoping the team uses these results as motiva­tion heading towards the acc outdoor championships. 
“anytime an athlete does very well in the middle of the season it’s gonna boost their confidence and they should do very well, much better in the actual championship part of the season” turner said. “So the team is very positive right now, it really is.” 
the irish race next at the Virginia challenge in charlottesville, Virginia, this friday and Saturday. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­
WANTED 
-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND family needs an energetic, outdoor-Need a babysitter for Sep 9th eve loving, reliable gal to travel to beautiful when Domer family in for a football Jackson Hole WY from end of May/ weekend. Contact info@greymat-early June to early August as our live­tersintl.com in nanny. Email: info@greymattersintl. 
com 



MEN’S GOLF | battlE at thE WarrEN 
Irish take first in home outing 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
this weekend, Notre Dame competed in the fourth install­ment of the battle at the Warren and finished the meet victorious, defeating second-place Detroit by 33 strokes and boasting an overall champion in freshman ben albin. 
irish head coach Jim Kubinski attributed the team’s success to a heightened focus and attention to detail. 
“our mindset coming in was to continue our growth, indi­vidually and as a team, by bring­ing the focus and trust required to execute shots to each shot,” Kubinski said. “We have done it in stretches this season but need to carry it all the way through rounds and tournaments. you can’t look back or ahead in golf. you must stay in the present. our guys did very, very well in that re­gard this week.” 
Kubinski also noted that with this win, Notre Dame will finish its season undefeated at home. 
“We now need to take all that we’ve done here and apply it on the road,” Kubinski said. “the rankings of teams we compete against, whether yesterday or throughout the year, are imma­terial. our game is about what we do, how we execute.” 
in addition to the overall vic­tory, the irish also had exciting individual performances, es­pecially for albin who earned medalist honors with a one­under-par 141 two-round mark. according to Kubinski, however, albin’s successes this season go beyond his statistics. 
“ben has played well all year,” Kubinski said. “i believe he has six or seven finishes in the top 20 this year, including his first col­legiate win on Saturday. the im­pressive thing about ben though isn’t any result. What impresses me is his ability to assess his game, looking for ways to im­prove, and then have the drive and dedication to do the work required, every day, to reach his goals. that’s how consistency happens.” 
Kubinksi also highlighted the performance of junior liam cox. 
“liam’s contribution, espe­cially in owning a share of the tournament lead with his morn­ing 70, was a huge lift for our team,” Kubinski said. “i’m so proud of him, of his ability to absorb some tough rounds and tough times and yet never stop working. it’s just great to see a player with such spirit enjoy earned success.” 
all eight competing irish golf­ers finished in the top 10 this weekend, meaning solid perfor­mances all around for a team that Kubinski said has “strug­gled through much of the year to get those four good counting scores.” 
“it was a record-setting day in that regard,” Kubinski said. “having all players, team and in­dividuals, post 148 or better.” 
the irish now look forward to the acc championships, and will take the success of the week­end forward with them as they prepare. 
“it’s time for this young group to apply all they now know, the lessons learned through the year, and go play,” Kubinski said. “our good is very good. Saturday proved that. it’s now just about having the belief to trust that fact, to lose the wondering if we belong, and just go play the way we can.” 
Notre Dame travels to North 
london,  North  carolina,  
this  weekend  for  the  acc  
championships.  

Contact Molly Murphy mmurph40@nd.edu 
Baseball 
coNtiNuED from pagE 16 
little bit early in the year, just kind of inexplicably lost the strike zone a little bit here and there, and i think it affected him. but he’s done a remark­able job of working his way through that, and to do that when the season is in swing isn’t the easiest thing.” 
“it begins and ends with their fastball command,” aoki 
said  after  Saturday’s  win.  
“these  guys  work  off  their  
fastballs.”  

Solomon’s and guenther’s dominance even had an ef­fect in Sunday’s game, as the irish bullpen was well-rested and able to record 26 outs af­ter junior right-hander ryan Smoyer walked three batters and hit another in the first inning. 
“in retrospect, that was hugely important,” aoki said. “We couldn’t have done it oth­erwise. … really gutsy perfor­mances from a lot of people.” 
all told, the irish used eight pitchers Sunday, with none of them going longer than 2 1/3 innings. aoki did, however, credit junior left-handed re­liever Jim orwick, who lasted the longest, for settling the game down and stopping boston college’s offensive explosion. 
Still, it was the irish offense who powered the team to vic­tory, collecting 17 hits, second most on the season, and scor­ing a combined seven runs in the seventh and eighth in­nings to erase a 9-4 deficit. 
“We just kept keeping on and stayed determined to keep on doing what we’re going to do,” aoki said of the offensive out­burst. “When you’re up there for an at-bat, there’s no con­trolling what the game situ­ation is — whether you’re up six, chasing six — so you just try to win the pitch, and our kids did a remarkable job of that today.” 
leading the way, senior left fielder ricky Sanchez fell a tri­ple short of the cycle Sunday, going 4-for-5 at the plate with three rbis and two runs, in­cluding the game-winner in the eighth. Sanchez’s produc­tive day at the plate marked a strong recovery after he went 0-for-6 in the series’ first two games. he now leads the team in batting average (.344) and slugging (.508). 
“the biggest [change] from years past is that ricky has made a tangible adjustment with two strikes,” aoki said. “[i’m] so happy for him, be­cause he’s a hard-working kid and he wants to be good, and he’s been great.” 
Sanchez also drove in a run in friday’s game with an rbi groundout, making him the team’s top run producer on the weekend, but he was by no means Notre Dame’s only of­fensive weapon. all told, the irish got rbis from all nine starters over the course of three games. 
Senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis drove in two runs apiece in the final two games of the series, junior infielder Kyle fiala chipped the game-winner Sunday, freshman out­fielder matt Vierling clinched things Saturday with a two-run home run and sophomore outfielder Jake Shepski picked up two rbis Sunday. 
“it’s great,” aoki said of the team’s depth. “it showed up [Sunday]. it showed up in our ability to put different people in the outfield. … all of that stuff is remarkable.” 
Vierling ended the series with just two hits, but his home run Saturday moved him to second on the team in four-baggers. Vierling also ranks third on the team in rbis and has started every game this season for the irish, who have won 13 of their last 15 games. 
“We’re walking this fine line between playing loose and staying focused,” Vierling said of the team’s recent success. “it’s a perfect balance of, we’re having fun, but we’re hitting it very well, getting great pitch­ing, great defense, and ev­erybody is on board with the plan.” 
Junior cavan biggio went 4-for-10 at the plate this week­end and added three walks, which moves him into the top five nationally for bases on balls. the second baseman also scored four runs and stole two bases in the series. 
While aoki stuck with the same lineup for all three games of the matchup, only one irish pitcher saw the mound more than once this weekend. 
Sophomore right-hander brad bass picked up the win Sunday, pitching 1 2/3 shutout innings while striking out two, and the save friday by striking out three over two innings. the 6-foot-6 reliever has only four appearances since re­turning from an elbow injury earlier this season but has thrown five scoreless innings while picking up two saves. 
“[bass] brings huge confi­dence [to the team],” Solomon said after friday’s win. “ … When he’s out there it looks like nothing bothers him; he just kind of does his own thing. i know all the guys be­hind him love playing behind him because he’s going to come out throwing strikes.” 
Notre Dame has now won five straight and are 11-2 at home on the season, but the irish will play five of their next six on the road, begin­ning Wednesday, when they face michigan State in East lansing, michigan. first pitch is scheduled for 3:05 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 

paiD aDVErtiSEmENt NDSmcobSErVEr.com | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | thE obSErVEr 




played today.” Day was a perfect moment for 
W Lacrosse 
the irish continued to cut her. 
coNtiNuED from pagE 16 

into the blue Devils’ lead into “it feels incredible,” Sexton 
the second half, with four said. “i think this team has 3-2, and sophomore attack goals in five minutes to give been searching to click and Kyra harney, senior midfield-Notre Dame its first lead of searching for a win over these er maddy acton and sopho-the day. Duke responded, last couple of weeks, so for it more midfielder maddie however, and opened up an-all to come together on Senior crutchfield made the game other two-goal lead. Day was really something 6-2. With two minutes left in With just over two min-special to be a part of.” the half, irish junior attack utes left, junior midfielder Next up for the irish is a cortney fortunato scored casey pearsall cut through clash with No. 5 uSc. the to make it 6-3 at the break. the center of the Duke de-trojans are currently un­gaining possession had not fense to make the difference defeated at 14-0, first in the been an issue for Notre Dame, just one goal. it was the blue nation in scoring defense who led the draw control Devils who won the fight on and offense, giving up only 
to improve his hang time on his count 7-3, but the irish strug-the ground for the ensuing 4.92 goals per game, and av-
Padanilam punts, and he did just that, mak­
coNtiNuED from pagE 16 

ing sure his punts hung up long nities into goals and were to only hold onto the ball for halfpenny said the trojans gled to turn these opportu-draw, however, and needed eraging 15.46 goals scored. 
enough for his coverage team to punished at the other end. two minutes to secure the are an especially impressive 
expected of it. although senior get downfield so that a return irish head coach christine victory. but when junior mid-team. 
running back tarean folston wouldn’t have been possible, halfpenny had praise for how fielder alex Dalton won the “they’re very good,” 
was limited to non-contact even if the rules had permitted her team, and especially her ball back, Notre Dame had halfpenny said. “they’re very 
participation, sophomores Josh it. seniors, responded to the dif-a final chance to score with disciplined and very athletic. 
adams and Dexter Williams So, in the end, what can we ficult first half. just over a minute remain-they have good size, great 
and junior Justin brent dis-say about this Notre Dame “i think that they did ing. that chance was dis-speed, great discipline and 
played power and speed on a squad after its first game action? what they’ve repeatedly patched by fortunato, who right now they know how to 
variety of runs, although they Well, we know the quarterback done throughout their ca-set up an overtime period, win. We’re coming up against 
didn’t always show up in the competition won’t be settled reers, which was respond,” where the irish quickly forced a team who will be looking to 
box score due to the impact of until at least fall camp, with halfpenny said. “i’ve really a turnover and Sexton won obviously be setting another 
the non-contact participants. Kelly confirming as much fol-appreciated their focus. i the game at the other end. first for their program as they 
Zaire, Kizer and sophomore lowing the game. We know the thought they took extreme halfpenny said her team’s finish this final stretch. but i 
quarterback brandon Wimbush offense can and should be both ownership of this game es-belief ensured that they could really like my squad, i like the 
all showed their ability to con-dynamic and explosive, regard­pecially out of halftime. they still get the victory. way my squad is playing right 
tribute in the running game less of who’s holding the reins of came into the second half “they know what they now. i think this was great 
as well, collectively gaining 52 the offense. very, very focused, very, very want,” halfpenny said. “this preparation today for how 
yards and a touchdown on the but we also know that the driven and really played to-team wants to win and be-hard we need to play and for 
ground. secondary still has some work gether. i think that was a big lieved that what we had would getting to where we need to 
and while the running game to do. Sure they’re pretty young difference in the second half: be enough. they trusted each be, which we’ll do one game 
took advantage of what few back there for the most part, but you could see them looking other, they knew the ball at a time and one win at a 
holes it had, the front seven and that showed at times Saturday. for each other, sharing the would go on the floor, they time.” 
secondary did a fairly good job and that can’t be the case if ball with full belief. i’m ex-knew they would get their the irish and the trojans 
of containing outside runs and Notre Dame wants to compete cited for the whole squad and chances, but they also made will begin play at 4 p.m. 
limiting the gains made against for a national championship. i think it just speaks to what their chances. they didn’t monday at arlotta Stadium. 
them. graduate student safety right now, this irish team this senior class has done leave anything to chance.” 
avery Sebastian and seniors looks very similar to last year’s for this team to see how ev-Sexton said scoring the Contact Daniel O’Boyle at 
cornerback cole luke and safety team — a team that found itself erybody, regardless of class, game-winning goal on Senior doboyle1@nd.edu 
max redfield led the irish in chasing a playoff berth but fall-tackles with six each, showing ing just short. the strengths are the secondary’s ability to con-pretty much the same, but so tribute in the running game. are its weaknesses. 
as good as they were at mak-but that doesn’t have to be a ing plays at the line of scrim-bad thing, either. the irish know mage, however, the secondary where they have to improve, showed itself to be vulnerable in and they’ve got plenty of time to the passing game. it’s this area do it. they are young at a lot of of the defense that has always these positions, so the growing plagued the irish — we know it, pains that come with this youth and they know it as well. luke are to be expected. but so is the said as much after the game, immense potential for success telling the media that he and the as they continue to gain experi­unit are looking to change that ence. plus, the special teams perception heading into this unit already looks stronger than season. it did last season, and it should 
but it didn’t start as well as only continue to improve as the they’d hoped Saturday, as there young group from last season were several times that the unit continues to gain experience. got beat long. Senior receiver So in the end, the blue-gold torii hunter Jr. had a 50-yard game might not have been all grab behind the defense, while that revealing where everyone brent got behind the defense on was looking for answers. but it his lone reception that went for also turned some eyes towards 28 yards. there could have been the areas that a lot of people more too, as freshman receiver are overlooking. after all, Notre Kevin Stepherson dropped an-Dame can compete for a na­other long pass down the field, tional championship with either while Zaire, Kizer and Wimbush Zaire or Kizer at the quarterback all missed on one or two op-spot come opening night at portunities to connect with a texas. but that’s only possible to relatively open receiver behind begin with if those “overlooked” the secondary. areas continue to improve. for 
and with the relatively stout now, though, the blue-gold run defense and missed oppor-game showed us that Notre tunities in the passing game on Dame’s development is moving both sides came seven oppor-in the right direction. tunities for sophomore punter tyler Newsome. and he deliv-Contact Ben Padanilam at ered, averaging nearly 53 yards bpadanil@nd.edu per punt and knocking three The views expressed in this of them inside the opposing column are those of the author squad’s 20 yard line. he’s said and not necessarily those of The all spring that he’s been working Observer. 



paiD aDVErtiSEmENt NDSmcobSErVEr.com | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | thE obSErVEr 




Football 
coNtiNuED from pagE 16 
team.” 
the low-scoring affair also did not convince Kelly one way or the other as to which quar­terback — the senior Zaire or the junior Kizer — will earn the starting nod come the fall. ultimately, Kelly said he will probably have to make a judg­ment call as he does not expect either quarterback to be able to distance himself from the other. 
“i think i’m going to have to make a judgment call,” Kelly said. “oh, i don’t know when i’ll make it. but there will be a time when i’m going to have to say, that’s our quarterback, let’s go with him, we’re all in, and let’s move forward. they are both that good; i already know that. but there will be a day, and we’re going to have to say: it’s time to go, he’s our quarterback, every­body’s behind him and we need to go, and that’s who the quar­terback is.” 
the Kizer-led blue team got Justin brent for a first down. off to a quick start. the junior on the next play, Zaire took a quarterback benefitted from designed quarterback run to the solid protection and found left and cut back to his right on sophomore running back the way to the end zone to tie Dexter Williams for a 15-yard the game at 7-7. gain to start the drive. a few the blue team answered back plays later, Kizer found sopho-at the end of the half, however. more receiver Eqaunimeous St. facing a fourth-and-9 on the brown for a 15-yard gain and gold team’s 40-yard line, Kizer then found freshman receiv-connected with Stepherson for er Kevin Stepherson 25 yards a 13-yard gain to keep the drive downfield to get the ball in the alive. the blue side was unable red zone. to get into the end zone though, 
Williams capped off the drive as Kizer was stopped on a quar­with a determined 16-yard terback draw on third-down touchdown run, breaking three from the 6-yard line. Senior tackles on the way to the end kicker John chereson made the zone. Williams was the game’s 23-yard field goal to put blue up leading rusher with 43 yards on 10-7 at halftime. 13 carries. Zaire finished the game 6-for-
the blue team held onto 15 with 120 passing yards in ad-the lead until six minutes into dition to 12 yards rushing on the second quarter when se-five carries. Kizer totaled 113 nior quarterback malik Zaire yards passing, completing 10 of sparked the gold squad with his 17 passes and rushing four a 50-yard pass to senior torii times for 21 yards. after the hunter Jr. the drive almost game, the toledo, ohio, native stalled, but on third-and-nine, said the spring game was about Zaire escaped the pressure having fun as opposed to prov-and found junior running back ing something. 
paiD aDVErtiSEmENt 
“this is awesome,” Kizer said. “you get caught up in all the pressure that comes along with this sports, obviously it’s a huge business, there’s always a lot go­ing on with the final four and the rankings and all that good stuff. When you’re out here, you’re able to take in those same vibes that you have and just fo­cus on the good times. malik and i have developed into who we’re going to be, everybody understands who we are. this wasn’t necessarily an audition in one night. i was able to take that pressure off, take off the competition, take off all the stuff that comes along with the final four and just have fun with my boys. 
“i’m out there laughing with guys after they try to tackle me, stuff like that. that’s what this is for. as long as we continue to have fun and keep that mindset that, at the end of the day, it’s all about having a good time and playing the game that we love. this is a great example of where our guys are and how much we love the game.” 
meanwhile, Zaire said he took the blue-gold game as another opportunity to build chemis­try and experience with the offense. 
“i think we’ve got a new team,” Zaire said. “last year’s team is different than this year’s team, so getting acclimated and adjusting to those guys, build­ing chemistry not only with the tight ends and receivers and running backs, but also the o-line. We mixed up the teams a little bit today, but i think the chemistry is only going to con­tinue to get stronger. 
“and we don’t want to be there now. i mean, we’ve got a lot of time before our first game. i think getting closer to that chemistry is something we worked on in the spring and is something we accomplished.” 
Kelly sat Zaire and Kizer for the second half and in­stead, sophomore quarterback brandon Wimbush played for both teams during the third quarter. the teacneck, New Jersey, native looked efficient and relied mostly on the option to move both offenses down the field. brent was also a difference maker in the second half with 19 yards on seven carries. 
No points were scored, how­ever, as chereson missed a 37-yard field goal in the end of the third quarter and sopho­more kicker Justin yoon missed a 47-yarder at the start of the fourth. 
Kelly said that while he has been impressed with Wimbush throughout the spring, he does not see him in contention for the starting job. 
“i haven’t figured out how i can get him involved in this race for starting quarterback,” Kelly said. “Somebody would have to give up reps, and i’m not pre­pared to do that right now. i’m not prepared to give up reps on Kizer or Zaire to fit brandon in. and so i would have to make that decision on my own to give up reps on those two guys to give more to brandon to actually give him a fair chance.” 
after one drive in the fourth quarter, junior quarterback montgomery Vangorder entered the game in place of Wimbush. Vangorder lead a blue touch­down drive in the waning min­utes of the game that ended on a 2-yard quarterback sneak. after the yoon extra point, the final score read 17-7 for the blue team. 
the blue-gold game marked the last spring practice for Notre Dame, and the team will not take the field again until sum­mer practices begin in June, where Kelly said leadership wand continued development will be priorities. 
“in may, they go home, they recharge, they kind of assess where they are and they hear it from us and they come back in June and they are focused on physical development and then the leadership element and they go to work on it,” Kelly said. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



thE obSErVEr | MONDAY, APRIL 18, 2016 | NDSmcobSErVEr.com 

FOOTBALL | bluE-golD gamE 
 Spring concludes with Blue-Gold Game 
Quarterback position still open after spring practice 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Editor 
With all eyes on malik Zaire and DeShone Kizer, it was se­nior punter tyler Newsome who had a busy day as both of­fenses struggled to put points on the board in Notre Dame’s blue-gold game. 
the final score was 17-7 in favor of the blue squad, led by Kizer, but more important than the final score was the team’s overall effort, irish head coach brian Kelly said. 
“i was really happy with the game in itself,” Kelly said. “i think what stood out for me, other than we gave the game ball to tyler Newsome…it was clean in the sense of, no turn­overs. it wasn’t sloppy. We had a couple of penalties here and there, but i thought it was dis­ciplined. it was organized. i thought the team knew what they were doing, both on of­fense and defense and that was pleasing from a head coach’s perspective, but that’s what i would expect at this time in the development of our football 
see football PAGE 15 

BASEBALL | ND 4, bc 1; ND 3, bc 1; ND 11, bc 9 
Irish sweep Eagles in ACC play 
By GREG HADLEY 
Senior Sports Writer 
matched up against one of the best pitching staffs in the acc, Notre Dame used two sterling efforts from its own starters and one offensive explosion to sweep boston college this weekend at frank Eck Stadium. 
the three wins push the irish (21-12) to 9-7 and fifth place in the conference, with four acc series remaining on Notre Dame’s schedule. None of the wins against the Eagles (18-14, 5-11) were blowouts though, as the irish took the first two contests by 4-1 scores and then rallied from a five-run deficit Sunday afternoon for an 11-9 victory. 
“any time you have the chance to sweep in this con­ference, it’s a big change,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “it’s such a competitive conference and bc is such a competitive team … so we feel fortunate and i’m really proud of how our kids competed all weekend long.” 
the Eagles pitchers entered the series ranked in the top 30 nationally and second in the acc in Era and walks and hits per inning pitched (Whip), and through the first two games were able to hold the irish bats relatively in check. 
but Notre Dame sophomore pitchers peter Solomon and Sean guenther were even more dominant, as both picked up wins to move to 3-3 on the sea­son. Solomon scattered three hits and one run over seven innings while striking out a career-high eight batters, and guenther went 6 2/3 innings, giving up one run on six hits while striking out five. 
“[Solomon’s] an enormously talented kid,” aoki said after friday’s game. “he struggled a 
see baSEball PAGE 13 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | ND 10, DuKE 9 (ot) 
ND gets revenge on Duke, takes Senior Day win 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Whether it was four goals behind in the first half, two goals down with three min­utes left in the game, or trailing by one with Duke possession and 90 seconds on the clock, No. 10 Notre Dame found ways to fight back dur­ing Saturday’s encounter with the No. 13-ranked blue Devils, pulling off a 10-9 overtime victory. 
on Senior Day, it was se­nior attack rachel Sexton who grabbed the game-winning goal for the irish (11-4, 4-3 acc), her third of the game to go with one assist. 
a close start to the game saw both teams score twice in the opening ten minutes, but Duke (9-6, 4-2) soon began to build a lead. Senior attack Kelci Smesko made the game 
see W laX PAGE 12 


What can we learn from Saturday’s scrimmage? 

Ben Padanilam 
associate Sports Editor 
in a game that had the po­tential to add some clarity to the quarterback competition at Notre Dame, the blue-gold game did everything but. 
malik Zaire and DeShone Kizer had their moments, but they also had their fair share of missed opportunities in the contest. they both showed off their arms and legs, displaying the ability to make plays, but neither one was able to do it consistently. 
So as far as another tool of evaluation between the two quarterbacks, the blue-gold game didn’t offer much for irish head coach brian Kelly to work with when it comes to deciding upon a starter in the fall. 
but if you put aside the quar­terbacks, you would see several other takeaways from this Notre Dame team’s first look at game action. 
throughout the entire game, the ground game showed the promise that has come to be 
see paDaNilam PAGE 13 




