The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 119 | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Pasquerilla East wins  Hall of the Year 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
The hall presidents council (hpc) announced pasquerilla east hall as the recipient of the hall of the year award at notre dame’s student leadership awards banquet on Thursday night. walsh hall won women’s hall of the year and fisher hall was named men’s hall of the year. 
seamus Quilty, co-president of hpc, said the committee select­ed the three award recipients af­ter evaluating the dorms’ rockne event reports, signature events, hall of the year presentations, resident testimonials and in-hall events. 
“This helped showcase a hall’s identity, engagement of all residents and drive towards 
see hall PAGE 5 



Mass remembers Fr. Elizondo 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
senior news writer 
notre dame faculty, staff and students gathered in the basilica of the sacred heart for Thursday afternoon for a mass in memory of theology profes­sor fr. virgilio elizondo, who died march 14 in san antonio. 
elizondo,  the  university  
of  notre dame  professor  
of  pastoral  and  hispanic  

Theology, is widely considered the founder of u.s. latino the­ology and received the 1997 laetare medal. university president fr. John Jenkins celebrated the mass, and fr. daniel groody, director of im­migration initiatives for the institute for latino studies, delivered the homily. 
groody said elizondo was a man who was devoted to re­lationships, gave generously and “greeted people with open arms.” 
“wherever he went, he often could be found around a table, gathering people together, forming new relationships, discussing new ideas,” he said. 
elizondo’s death was ruled a suicide, according to a south bend Tribune report. elizondo was named in a 2015 san antonio civil suit alleg­ing elizondo sexually abused the unnamed plaintiff when he was a minor, according to a report originally run by wsbT. elizondo last taught at the university during the spring 2015 term, university spokes­person dennis brown said in an email. 
The lawsuit was filed against the archdiocese of san antonio, fr. Jesus armando 
see eliZondo PAGE 4 


Students raise funds for charity 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
The Junior class council will host the second annual notre dame dance-a-thon from 3 p.m. to midnight on saturday in the Joyce athletic and convocation center (Jacc) to raise funds for renovations to the memorial children’s hospital in south bend. 
Junior Tegan chesney, dance-a-thon chair, said the dance-a-thon committee 
see dance PAGE 4 

university to award degree 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame will confer seven honorary degrees at this year’s commencement ceremony, the university announced in a press release Thursday. rita colwell, a molecular microbiologist, will re­ceive a doctor of science honorary degree. colwell, whose work fo­cuses on global infectious diseases, water and health will join six previ­ously announced honorary degree recipients. 
colwell is a distinguished university professor at the university of maryland and Johns hopkins university bloomberg school of public health, the re­lease stated. 
“a highly sought-after coun­selor on science policy and edu­cation matters, she has held advisory positions within school 
see recipienTs PAGE 5 


ndh fire forces evacuation 

Observer Staff Report 
a small electrical fire caused a complete evacu­ation of north dining hall just before 8 p.m. Thursday night. after all students and staff left the building, the fire was contained in the electri­cal room in the basement, according to the notre dame security police. emergency vehicles from several fire de­partments responded to the alarm. 
“as a result of that alarm, it’s standard procedure for notre dame to respond, along with clay [county] and south bend fire departments, along with the notre dame police department. so that’s why you see this large re­sponse,” paul browne, vice president for public affairs and communications, said in an interview with wndu. 
ndsp confirmed the fire was extinguished by 10 p.m., and the entire build­ing is currently undergoing safety checks. as a precau­tion, the power was turned off in north dining hall. additionally, the fire depart­ment at the scene blocked off parts of the surround­ing area, around farley hall, geddes hall and mod Quad. crews at north dining hall are working to restore power to the building. 





Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
With what non-beef ingredient would you make a hamburger patty? 


Jack Brooks 
junior morrissey manor 
“french onion soup mix.” 
Nate McCormick 
senior off campus 
“venison.” 
Matthew Domenech 
sophomore dillon hall 
“a south Quad rabbit.” 
Shaquille Johnson 
junior 
Keenan hall 
“lamb.” 
MacKenzie Cavanagh 
freshman 
farley hall 
“black beans.” 
Katie Hearn 
sophomore 
farley hall 
“nothing. That would be a disgrace.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

rachel o’grady hunter mcdonald Email news@ndsmcobserver.com megan valley elizabeth greason meghan sullivan victoria llorens 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 

susan Zhu matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 
Bengali New Year Softball vs. National Robotics “God Lives in the City” Artist Talk 

Zachary llorens Tabitha ricketts 
Celebration Pittsburgh Week Event Hesburgh Center for Snite Museum of Art Coleman-Morse Center Melissa Cook Stadium Compton Family Ice International Studies 6 a.m.-7:30 a.m 
6:30p.m.-8 p.m. 1 p.m.-5 p.m. Arena 5 pm.-6:30 p.m. Artist and community 
Corrections 
Experience culture The Irish take on the 12 p.m. - 4 p.m. Lecture on Pope activist Vanessa 

The observer regards itself as and traditional dinner. Panthers. Play with robots. Francis’ theology. German will speak. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Women’s Tennis vs. Eucharistic Adoration Men’s Lacrosse vs. Zumbathon “Subculture Wars” 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Clemson Basilica of the Sacred Duke Rockne Memorial 129 DeBartolo Hall 

however, recognize that we will make 
Eck Tennis Pavillion Heart Arlotta Stadium 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5 p.m. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
3:30p.m.-5:30 p.m. 11 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. Workout special event Lecture on social 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the 24-hour Eucharist The Irish take on the open to the community conservatism in 21st 
we can correct our error. 
Tigers. celebration. Blue Devils. for $5. century America. 



SMC fosters discussion on homelessness 
important than any services 
By MARTHA REILLY 

associate saint mary’s editor we provide.” according to schneider, 24 saint mary’s students percent of the people who hosted a panel discussion come to st. margaret’s house on homelessness in south are homeless, which reflects bend on Thursday evening. the flaws in the housing mar-panelists included represen-ket of south bend. tatives from st. margaret’s “it’s very expensive,” house, the youth service schneider said. “people get bureau, our lady of the into homes thinking ‘This road and the center for the is the answer,’ and it’s re-homeless. ally hard. There are a lot of Kathy schneider, execu-reasons people can’t stay tive director of st. margaret’s housed.” house, said she hopes to pro-mary hicks, a guest at st. vide women and children with margaret’s house, said the far more than basic necessi-center played an integral role ties: she also wants to pro-in helping her turn her life mote bonding and friendship. around. “The most important thing “They treated me like i was that we do is form a com-a person,” hicks said. “i found munity of people who care my way back. i have a job. i about each other,” schneider have my own place.” said. “i think that is more hicks said her struggle 
paid adverTisemenT 


taught her that establish-homeless and provide op-ability to succeed. ments such as st. margaret’s portunities to more than 275 “They’ve never been to house serve as essential individuals every day,” Kloski afghanistan, they’ve never resources. said. “The mission of the cen-been to iraq, but they’ve seen 
“people that are homeless ter is to break that cycle of people shot in their neighbor-need places like this because homelessness.” hoods,” august said. “guns go i didn’t know where else to brady august, who directs off all the time. They’re in a go,” hicks said. the street outreach program war zone.” 
homelessness and unem-for the youth service bureau matthew insley, a staff ployment are related issues, of st. Joseph county, said the member at our lady of the hicks said, because many program encourages young road, a ministry of the st. people can no longer afford to people to recognize their peter claver catholic worker pay rent after they are fired. strengths and resolve their serving as a house of hos­
“people live on the edge,” problems before they enter a pitality for those needing a hicks said. “sometimes there dangerous cycle of drug and place to stay indefinitely, said can be one thing that goes alcohol abuse. the individualistic structure wrong, and there’s just no “i thought ‘wouldn’t it be of society contributes to the safety net.” great if we could try to catch problem of homelessness. 
christin Kloski, community them when they’re in their insley said he encourages involvement and volunteer teenage years?’” august said. everyone to unite in a self-coordinator at the center for “The mission is to target peo-less response to others’ needs the homeless, said she works ple [ages] 16 to 24 who are in because this can reduce the with men, women and fami-need or at risk of becoming number of people struggling lies as they try to achieve and homeless. we do this through to find or afford a place to maintain self-sufficiency. trying to build or establish live. Kloski said the center for the relationships with young “begin to make people’s is-homeless prepares residents people.” sues your issues,” insley said. for life after they move out, august said individuals “That’s what we’re all about at even providing them with job who witness violence dur-the catholic worker.” applications and conducting ing childhood may continue mock interviews. to suffer from this trauma, Contact Martha Reilly at 
“we help to serve the which could hinder their mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
university fills new position 
inclusion, according to an position, young worked as 
Observer Staff Report 
april 7 press release. the director of institutional 
The university selected young, a graduate of notre diversity and equity at smith pamela nolan young to fill dame law school, will join college. she also worked for the new position for direc-the university’s provost staff north shore community tor of academic diversity and and focus mainly on enhanc-college for five years as their 
ing notre dame’s faculty cli-human resources director. at 
mate while also coordinating both schools, young managed diversity and inclusion with-affirmative action plans and in the academic sphere, the maintained diversity policies release said. and events. 
“The desire to bring to-“a prominent presenter gether diverse voices and on issues of equality, diver-perspectives is at the heart sity and inclusion, young has of what notre dame stands served in various community for,” Thomas g. burish, the leadership roles, including as university’s charles and Jill a member of the new england fischer provost, said in the resource center for higher release. “i am so pleased education multicultural to welcome pamela back to affairs Think Tank and on notre dame to lead us in this boards for organizations mission-critical area and to involved with cultural en-ensure we are both purpose-richment, educational ad­ful and effective in the ways vancement, abused women we seek to foster an environ-and children, food pantries ment where all may flourish.” and housing discrimination,” 
prior to filling this new the release stated. 
Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Dance 
conTinued from page 1 
appreciated the opportunity to make a difference in the local community. 
“[we] went on a tour of the children’s hospital, and we saw the rooms as they are now and the rooms how they’re going to be in the future with the new renovations, the new addition,” chesney said. “we wanted to raise money for this cause be­cause for other schools [dance­a-thons], often times they’ll raise money for a big organization, a big hospital where they may have a local branch, but we really liked memorial because it was so lo­cal and a lot of the residents and community members have been there.” 
The marathon’s move from south dining hall to the Jacc and its shortened time frame will allow more participation in the event, junior freddie stavins, dance-a-thon marketer, said. 
“i think the Jacc is sort of a more immersive experience. ... There’s a bit more room for peo­ple to play on the inflatables,” stavins said. “last year it went on really long and sort of the focus of the event is family-oriented and we want kids to show up as well, so by having a more concise time frame, that way we can draw 
Elizondo 
conTinued from page 1 
the archdiocese of san antonio, fr. Jesus armando dominguez and elizondo in bexar county district court. it alleges dominguez repeated­ly sexually abused the plain­tiff, listed as “John doe” in the 1980s. when the plaintiff asked elizondo for help deal­ing with dominguez’s abuse in 1983, the lawsuit alleges “elizondo began to fondle the plaintiff’s genitals, taking advantage of the same sexual liberties plaintiff complained of with father dominguez.” 
in his homily, groody spoke on the allegations of sexual abuse made against elizondo last year. 
“in may of last year, a man came forward with al­legations that he was sexu­ally, repeatedly abused by a priest more than 30 years ago. if such allegations are true, it’s an egregious injus­tice against this human be­ing. That priest, however, was not virgil elizondo,” he said. “These allegations [were] against another priest who fled the country and was never heard from again. virgil later became con­nected to the allegations through one disputed inci­dent of the plaintiff, which virgil completely denied. he was brought into this case not because he was a serial abuser, but because he was a highly visible, accomplished, respected cleric. … This one accusation put the spotlight more people and people will be able to experience more in the smaller amount of time.” 
paul davis, gift officer for beacon health system, said the adjusted time frame has already attracted many patients and their families to the event, in­cluding this year’s guest of honor, hannah bell. 
“[bell]’s been battling cancer for a few years, and there’s a vid­eo of her online singing the song ‘flashlight’… and she’s actually singing it while she is in her infu­sion bed getting chemotherapy, and then the video is intertwined with different kids in the hospi­tal,” davis said. “we’re going to have her probably at about 3:30 get up onstage, say a few words about what she’s gone through, how much it means to her hav­ing the dance-a-thon and every­thing and basically say ‘3, 2, 1, get moving.’ 
“it’s going to be really neat to celebrate her.” 
davis said he issued a chal­lenge to the hall presidents’ council for increased student participation in the event. 
“[for] the hall that raises the most money — with a minimum of a $1,000 — in our new facil­ity in the front entrance will be a large dance-a-thon plaque with a picture of the entire hall,” he said. “Then we’re also going to give that hall two exclusive visits to the new children’s hospital where they can go and visit with patients, physicians. … They’ll pretty much have the run of the 
“Our children’s hospital loses over $1 million every year because 64 to 70 percent of the kids that we see are either on Medicaid, or they’re completely uninsured and we don’t turn anybody away regardless of their ability to pay. .” 
Paul Davis 
gift officer 
Beacon Health System 
mill of our children’s hospital one time in the spring [and] one time in the fall.” 
chesney said in addition to music and dancing, the event schedule will feature a perfor­mance from the irish dance team at 5 p.m., a Zumba instructor at 7 
p.m. and inflatable bounce hous­es and activities throughout the marathon. 
“we’re trying to integrate the student performers within the event, but then also get students excited about it through all of the inflatable things which can either be geared toward the kids who can be coming from the hospi­tal or college students,” chesney said. “we’re trying to have these things that can appeal to any au­dience, any range of people who want to come. in the future we’d love to reach out to more groups and have different performers.” 
stavins said the dance-a-thon committee’s marketing cam­paign has focused on the joy of the event as well as the charitable aspects. 
“we’re just trying to promote the joy of dancing,” he said. “i feel like we all sort of have this great, childlike portion to ourselves and helping these kids experi­ence a rich childhood is the ulti­mate goal.” 
chesney said she hopes stu­dents enjoy the event in addition to gaining a new appreciation for the dance-a-Thon’s cause. 
“i hope that they — at the event, and before the event — they see the cause and they see what the money is going for, but then they also have fun dancing and have fun on the inflatables and face painting or having their own face painted,” she said. “i hope that they take joy from this event.” 
davis said he wants students to realize memorial children’s hospital’s unique and impor­tant impact on the south bend community. 
“our children’s hospital loses over $1 million every year be­cause 64 to 70 percent of the kids that we see are either on medicaid, or they’re completely uninsured and we don’t turn anybody away regardless of their ability to pay,” he said. “if we didn’t have memorial children’s hospital right here in south bend they would have to travel a minimum of two hours away to receive treatment. … i just want students to under­stand what a unique resource is just right down the road and how much it means to the community, and to partner up with the students, for us, is just amazing. 
“it’s definitely a blessing.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

entirely on virgil.” Those who gather to re­
groody said that elizondo, member elizondo “affirm who lived an “abundantly in faith that even as he went fruitful life,” but the weight through rejection in this life, of the allegations “eventually god did not reject him in the crushed him.” world to come,” groody said. 
“during this time, virgil “and as we have struggled became not only the embodi-in these weeks, ultimately ment of his christological realizing that the final ques­synthesis, but even our deep-tion about virgil can never est fears as human beings. he be, ‘why did he take his own became the reject,” he said. life?’” he said. “The central “To our eyes, he appeared to question must always be, reject the last moment of his ‘how did he give us life?’” life — even those closest to him do not know the reasons Contact Catherine Owers at why he took his life.” cowers@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Degree 
conTinued from page 1 
of public health, the release stated. 
“a highly sought-after coun­selor on science policy and education matters, she has held advisory positions within government, nonprofit science policy organizations, private foundations and the interna­tional scientific research com­munity,” the release stated. “The author or co-author of 17 books and more than 800 scien­tific publications, she has been awarded 61 honorary degrees.” 

paid adverTisemenT 

Hall 
conTinued from page 1 
residents and drive towards developing the residents per­sonally — as residents of the hall community and as people of the community beyond the hall,” he said. 
pasquerilla east hall intro­duced a number of programs during the past year designed to help its residents develop personally, meredith frasier, co-president of hpc, said. 
“[pasquerilla east] has had an exceptional year, meeting the needs of many residents,” she said. “with this in mind, hall council conducted sur­veys throughout the year to better understand residents’ wishes. as a result of this in­put, their two main goals for the year were to increase service opportunities and to increase the variety of the events.” 
mary white, president of pasquerilla east hall, said her goal was to reach a large por­tion of her dorm’s residents. 
“i honestly think it’s all due to the commissioners,” white said. “our goals in the begin­ning of the year, they really took to heart, and they not only did their two events per semester — they went above and beyond.” 
pasquerilla east hosted a number of events throughout the year for hall residents and members of the notre dame community, white said, in­
cluding  a  “women’s wisdom  
dinner,”  trivia  nights,  a  
“puppies  and  pancakes”  

event and weekly service opportunities. 
“Throughout the year, the leadership in this hall was humble in identifying its ar­eas for growth and then ef­fective in making specific improvements to reach more residents,” Quilty said. “Their organizational structure, second to none, made this possible.” 



Quilty said the women’s hall of the year, walsh hall, planned their year with three core values in mind — creativity, hospitality and fearlessness. 
walsh hall consistently gar­nered large turnouts at hall events, Quilty said, including the dorm’s overnight retreat, harry potter week and study abroad dessert crawl. 
walsh president amy ackermann said she was proud of the dorm’s service and spirituality program over the past year, which in­volved working working with the ronald mcdonald family house, the dorm’s new signa­ture charity. 
(Editor’s note: Amy Ackermann is a photographer for The Observer.) 
“i was surprised because we won hall of the year last year, and i didn’t think it was pos­sible to win twice in a row,” she said. “a lot of the other women’s halls had fantastic programming, so i’m really honored that they chose us. i’m so proud of my chairs and commissioners for all of the hard work they did this year.” 
men’s hall of the year, fisher hall, focused on formation this year, in a personal and communal sense, frasier said. 
“To encourage both faith-based and other personal growth, this hall invited guest speakers to enlighten residents, an intitiative that began to honors their hall’s namesake,” she said. 
proceeds from the dorm’s two signature events — a spikeball tournament and the fisher regatta — earned more than $6,000, all of which was donated to st. adalbert school, the dorm’s signature charity, frasier said. 
fisher president cory Jbara said the dorm helped its resi­dents grow by learning to live for others and learning to en­gage in the process of reflec­tion and development. 
“although these events are great on paper, the tradi­tion in fisher hall goes way further,” he said. “fisher is unique because of its com­mitment to brotherhood. The men of fisher are extremely dedicated to living not only as individuals, but also as a community. Together, we have made a great impact on each other and the campus as a whole.” 
“congratulations to these three halls and the remain­ing 26, each of which deserves genuine acknowledgement,” frasier said. 
all three winning dorms will receive monetary awards from hpc and a dome dance next year, Quilty said. 
News Editor Katie Galioto contributed to this report. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

How to get a college boy to notice you 
Sydney Enlow 
news writer 

my name is sydney, and i am horribly single. my desperate loneliness has come to the point that i have begun trying to determine if the names i picked out for my future children can be easily transitioned into whimsical pet names. 
so, in order to help myself and all the other single ladies in the south bend region, here are the surefire ways to get that cute boy you merci­lessly stalk on social media to finally notice you. 
1. Pass out Papa John’s coupons at dorm parties. 
after a couple of years of delving into extensive research, it can be said with quite certainty that most guys like pizza. go to your nearest papa John’s, ask for a handful of “10% off your next purchase” coupons, write your name and num­ber on the back and hand them out at the next big social gathering. better yet, just bring a pizza to the next party. it’s bound to get you a few min­utes of attention, even if it is only being yelled at for not bringing more garlic dipping sauce. 
2. Have a dog with you 24/7. 

it has been scientifically proven there’s no bet­ter wingman than a friendly dog. if you’re lucky enough to know where to borrow one for your group study session with that cute guy in your chemistry class, then you’re in luck. 
3. Speak only in Drake lyrics for the rest of your life. 
The greater portion of music genres played at college parties appears to be rap. seeing as how boys are more often than not the dJs at said events, the assumption can be made that boys like rap, and who’s better at rap than drake? by speaking in only his lyrics, it shows potential suitors you not only have a deep interest in the art, but you’re also a really good listener. 
4. Camp out for a weekend at Dick’s Sporting Goods. 
it doesn’t take a rocket scientist to know boys love sports. if, like me, your own dad benched you on your third grade basketball team, then you’ve tried to avoid the concept of sports alto­gether. by living at dick’s sporting goods for a long weekend, you’ll absorb all you could ever want to know about the history of sports. you’ll be a hit at the next football game. 
5. Limit your wardrobe to strictly Vineyard Vines and Sperry. 
salmon-colored chubbies and a smart quar­ter-zip sweater is the go-to outfit of most colle­giate men in the south bend region and nothing will impress them more than your dedication to the frat-life attire. revamping your wardrobe won’t be cheap, but the benefits far outweigh the possibility of bankruptcy. who knows, maybe matching vines hats will get you and the love of your life talking about potential wedding colors. 
now none of these ideas have been tested but don’t worry, i’ll be the girl at pigtostal carrying a pizza with a german shepherd and spending time with her woes. good luck! 
Contact Sydney Enlow at                               senlow01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
on hall of the year 
after last night’s announcement of the three 2015-2016 halls of the year, hall presidents council would like to provide background about this year-long process of promoting residence life, up to and including the award determina­tion. The year has been a frenzy of community building for each of notre dame’s 29 halls. 
we, hall presidents council, are a group of 29 sets of hall presidents and vice presidents that serve our individual halls and collaborate to bol­ster the notre dame community. our executive board consists of six former hall presidents and vice presidents: co-chairs meredith fraser and seamus Quilty, athletics chair erik siegler, social chairs brigid mumford and Ted cogan and finance chair Joseph schneider. our purpose is to serve as an information disseminating body, to provide a social marketplace for members to dis­cuss matters of residentiality and to coordinate programming among residence halls. in short, we hope to ensure that students of notre dame are developing personally, as members of the hall community and as members of the community beyond the hall. hall presidents council also al­locates funding for signature events. in the 2015­2016 academic year, there were 77 residence hall signature events, 11 of which were new this year. 
This year, the hall of the year calculation in­cluded 55 percent hall of the year presentation 
(47.5 percent presentation score, five percent hall council visit and 2.5 percent resident testimoni­als) and 45 percent rockne (35 percent total of seven rockne scores, five percent signature event form and five percent favorite event form), some of which was new this year. using this as a lens, the hall of the year review board was able to evaluate the degree to which hall communities flourished this year. final scores will be made available online. 
The first award, women’s hall of the year, was awarded to walsh hall. This women’s hall began the year with over half of the hall entering as new residents, which presented an opportunity for strengthening. The women of walsh began by sending handwritten welcome notes to every in­coming resident. This hall structured its hall life with buzzwords creativity, hospitality and fear­lessness this year, and thus all programming in­tentionally matched hall needs. walsh wizarding week divided floors into harry potter houses for competition and camaraderie. invitations were again personalized letters to each summoned res­ident. walsh hall’s study abroad dessert crawl of 70 participants allowed current residents to welcome returning ones. for the second year in a row, the walsh overnight retreat gathered 80 women to celebrate their fearlessness in faith. 
walsh hall established a new signature charity, ronald mcdonald house, and continued their soul sisters group for sisterhood and discussion. walsh hall council’s weekly meeting consis­tently gathers 90 women. Their signature event, mr. nd, doubled its attendance to 400 people this year. although they will be moving from their hall next year, the hall council team has ensured that this home remains wild. Thank you to amy ackermann, Kendall Kovalik and monica golbranson for their leadership in walsh hall this year. 
Editor’s Note: Amy Ackermann is a photographer for The Observer. 
The 2015-2016 men’s hall of the year award belongs to fisher hall. The final scores for men’s hall of year were separated by only 0.16 percent. because of the statistically insignificant separa­tion, the hall of the year review board deter­mined there was a tie between fisher hall and dillon hall. majority vote resulted in the award­ing of fisher hall for 2015-2016 men’s hall of the year. 
fisher hall focused this past year on formation modeled in the holy cross mission. They hosted fredTalks to hear from speakers about life les­sons, unexpected joys and meaningful friend­ships and honor the hall’s namesake. The hall also brought meaning to the common phrase, “we are praying for you,” when they gathered to pray nine rosaries over nine hours in celebration of the life of their friend Theresa sagartz. 
a definite success in fisher was friday night al­ternative programming, part of an effort to make a reason for those with friday night destinations outside the hall to instead stay in with hallmates. after the early setback of the terminated fisher roofsit, fisher men responded positively with a replacement 24-hour spikeball tournament that raised $1,300. The 2015 fisher regatta was simi­larly successful and raised $5,100, which was do­nated to fisher’s signature charity, st. adalbert school, to fund a new gymnasium floor. weekly tutoring trips and visits to cheer at st. adalbert soccer and basketball games show the love for service is important to fisher men not only on a signature event day, but every day. cory Jbara and andy miles, president and vice president respectively, have completed an excellent year. 
finally, the 2015-2016 hall of the year is pasquerilla east hall, led for two consecutive years by mary white and erin murphy. The pe hall council developed, with resident input, two main goals for the year: to increase service op­portunities and to increase the variety of events. The array of programs fueling the hall spirit and supreme organizational structure surely met these goals. 
programming toward personal development of residents included a women’s wisdom din­ner and pyro Talks. pe also created a new weekly berries mass. pyros night in expanded to spark opportunity for hallmates to develop community. The pyros held a service event every week, and their signature charity, hannah’s house, was the recipient of much of this time. pe improved four existing signature events and created a new signature event this year for the second year in a row. This hall repeatedly demonstrated the need for change to meet changing needs of residents. 
congratulations to these three halls and the remaining 26, each of which deserves genuine acknowledgement. our campus community will soon welcome two new residence halls. we can­not wait to begin fall 2016 as 30 homes under one dome. Thank you to all who contributed to hall presidents council’s mark on notre dame for the 2015-2016 term. 
Hall Presidents Council 
april 7 



The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Time to focus on mental wellbeing 

EDITORIAL 

soon, across both notre dame and saint mary’s campuses, students will be exhausting the last of their flex points and munch money on coffee, pulling all-nighters and engaging in other stress-inducing activi­ties as we wind down another semester. 
while these practices are more or less ubiquitous among the student bodies of the university and college, they are not necessarily conducive to estab­lishing mental wellbeing. 
next week, notre dame’s chapter of the national alliance on mental illness (nami-nd) will be host­ing daily events and activities as part of irish peace of mind, a week focused on raising awareness about students’ mental wellbeing. The week kicks off monday morning with the distribution of Tell me about your day bracelets, and it includes activities such as a stu­dent panel on mental health monday evening, free massages in the coleman-morse lounge on Tuesday, a study break with puppies wednesday and a screening of “mulan” on Thursday. 
does that sound familiar? perhaps that’s because last october, nami-nd put on irish state of mind week, which — like irish peace of mind week — aimed to encourage campus discussion surrounding mental health. 
with the similarity in name and theme, it’s tempting to write off irish peace of mind as a half-hearted sec­ond attempt at irish state of mind, the change in name from “state” to “peace” a mere game of semantics. 
but to discount the upcoming irish peace of mind week would be a disservice to us. whereas irish state of mind focused more specifically on mental illness, irish peace of mind takes a wider approach, exam­ining the issue of mental health through the lens of everyday mental self-care and wellbeing. rather than confronting the societal stigma placed on mental ill­ness (a primary goal of irish state of mind), irish peace of mind addresses attitudes and behaviors potentially harmful to our mental wellness and is important pre­cisely because we — often-stressed, overworked and sleep-deprived college students — all too frequently engage in the types of self-destructive behaviors the week seeks to highlight and alleviate. 
The high-achieving nature of the majority of notre dame and saint mary’s students tends to encourage a spirit of competitiveness and a culture of one-upping 
— a culture that at its worst can lead to an unhealthy obsession with outdoing one another’s accomplish­ments and achievements in academics, athletics and extracurricular activities. at times, this culture of competition is so pervasive it transforms would-be stress relievers into stress triggers, distorting beneficial activities to the point that they begin to feel like un­manageable burdens. The daily workout session turned weight-loss competition, the occasional sweet indul­gence turned shameful excess — our hypercompetitive personalities that make us successful in school and in our other activities also have the capacity to sabotage our own peace of mind. 
in addition to poisoning our harmless or even healthy behaviors, this competitive mindset can have an adverse effect, causing us to view destructive prac­tices as something acceptable or even desirable. all-nighters are worn as badges of honor, while the amount of coffee we consume on any given day is flaunted as proof of our unyielding work ethic. we skip meals and classes in order to study; later, we’ll brag to our friends about how we “spent 18 consecutive hours in the library yesterday.” we internalize these behaviors 
—
 after all, isn’t everyone else doing the same things? 

—
 telling ourselves that next week, next semester, next year will be different, when we have a little more time. 


but if we took a second to step back and evaluate our conduct, we would realize just how warped and un­healthy our mindset really is. it is not a sustainable life­style. we need to take time for ourselves, even if that’s doing something as simple as enjoying a short meal with a friend or taking 22 minutes to watch an episode of “parks and recreation.” no matter how little time we think we have, we need to make the time for self-care, and the only way we can do so is by viewing self-care as a priority. in some sense, our mental health is the most fragile of all: not making time now could prove disas­trous in the long run. 
mental well-being is a matter that demands our full acknowledgment and attention, and for this reason we, as an editorial board, find irish peace of mind week extremely important and applaud nami-nd for shining light on this important issue. additionally, we find saint mary’s lack of a corresponding event week surprising. as a universal issue, mental health applies to all colleges and all campuses, and it is crucial that personal care is emphasized to all students, regardless of enrollment at notre dame or saint mary’s. 
so while it may be fun to sing along to “mulan” or play with puppies, try not to lose sight of the week’s true goals. after all, if we don’t take things seriously now, we risk allowing the situation to get truly out of hand. 

any fortuneteller knows bernie will bust, but do his supporters? 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

“it’s the math, stupid.” That phrase is as simple an explanation of how to nominate a candidate or win an election. numbers matter, and who votes in a primary or general election decides whether the electorate endures obstruction, chaos, gridlock and dissatisfaction from their government for years or decades to come. in base­ball, a player is only as good as the next at bat. in politics, it matters most if a disappointed voter actually steps up to the plate during the next election. 
our presidential primary process for both major po­litical parties is straightforward: The candidate who reaches the party threshold with the requisite number of delegates wins the party’s nomination. as candidates compete through the various regions nationwide, the campaign clock compresses the calendar and narrows the winning path. calculating the winning threshold through milestone wins is an easy task when only two candidates compete. 
on the democratic side between hillary clinton and bernie sanders — as in the 2008 clash involving clinton and barack obama — the leader at this point in the process is the likely nominee. i dread serving as the for­tuneteller of political doom so soon in the presidential primary cycle, but this writer is constrained by a semes­ter publication schedule that draws near its end. it would be a scam if i claimed to be reading tealeaves or gazing through a crystal ball — or consulting the mattel magic 8 ball on my desk — when i predict that the delegate quest “bern” will officially become a mathematical fizzle in mid-may. 
clinton won this nomination in march when she bested sanders in a string of net delegate victories: south carolina (25), virginia and mississippi (nearly 30 each), alabama (35), georgia (45) and Texas and florida (70 each). clinton appealed to a wider cross-section of voters in highly populated states. Texas cast 1.4 million votes; clinton won by 460,000 votes. in florida, clinton earned 
1.1 million votes, beating sanders by 531,000 votes. moreover, clinton netted on average 20 delegates in a half dozen other states to bulge her lead. 
on the other hand, sanders’ “huge” new hampshire landslide victory netted six delegates. his “gigantic” vermont win shutout clinton by gaining “all” 16 del­egates. until this week, sanders’ greatest net single gain was utah (21) winning by 46,000 votes out of a total 77,000 cast. unfortunately, sanders trails by nearly 250 delegates, which is much larger than clinton’s deficit against obama at the same time in 2008. despite the media hype surrounding sanders’ current streak of wins, including his shellacking clinton in wisconsin this week — where he only netted a couple dozen-delegates at best — he has few lifeboats left on his Titanic campaign voyage. 
The question begs whether disappointed sanders supporters will back clinton in november like clinton supporters helped elect president obama. The stakes are so critical during every election that it is important for sanders’ supporters to vote during the remaining primary contests and not to “bust” away from voting in the fall regardless of how much the eventual party nominees appear to be a choice between the lesser of two evils. following nate silver’s live blog during Tuesday’s wisconsin election night tabulations, the facebook threads bristled with bernie-bots proclaiming that they vote on principle and will not vote for hillary in the fall. 
as a consequence of apathy or disappointment causing a low voter turnout in 2010, our nation and many states stand today suffering through gridlock and chaos. The anti-establishment fervor sweeping both parties this election cycle is a result of prior uninterested voters. our congress is locked into a decade of gop dominance in the house of representatives until new districts are drawn in 2022, directly a result of an anti-obama low voter turnout in 2010. That election tilted many state governor’s houses and legislatures into total republican control that in turn rigged congressional districts through gerrymandering antics that cannot be changed until after the next census redistribution six years from now. 
far-reaching legislative antics stem from elections when only party activists elect governors and state legislatures. since the total gop control of several states in 2010, all manner of ways to “take back” the past through assaults on unions, abortion procedures, anti-discrimination laws and voting rights initiatives keep percolating throughout a number of states. north carolina, mississippi, georgia and Kansas have flirted with ways for private entities to discriminate in the name of religion. despite more than 90 percent of planned parenthood offerings for women that are other than abortion, these legions of legislators march to completely defund the entire organization and disenfranchise wom­en seeking healthcare services. best of all, Texas has pri­oritized a constitutional amendment bestowing the right to hunt and fish as their way to “take back” their past. 
sanders is correct that revolutions ignite change. but voter participation is a revolution unto itself that prevents a further need for dramatic change. regardless of how bleak the candidates on the ballot, or how disappointed one might be when a beloved candidate fails at the bal­lot box, voter participation during every election creates better candidates. my crystal ball indicates that when bernie’s campaign cannot march on, his backers will vote on. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter: @GaryJCaruso or via email: GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By KELLY McGARRY Associate Scene Editor 

Upon entering the Chicory Café, the 
charming “French Quarter style coffee 
house” reveals itself to be so much more. The spacious yet cozy, playfully deco­rated downtown South Bend spot lends itself to any occasion. Open from 6 a.m. to midnight, the Chicory Café transforms throughout the day. 
Featured in a 2014 Observer article on the best study spots in South Bend, the Chicory Café is homework-friendly during most hours. It has plenty of space to pull out your laptop and even offers discounted coffee refills. The spinach artichoke dip served with fresh French bread is the per­fect study accompaniment. 
A modest breakfast selection featuring bagels and egg po’boys complements a plethora of coffee and latte options. Typical café items like sandwiches and soups ex­ceed expectations in flavor — the red pep­per Gouda soup was especially tasty. 
With a walk-up counter, the style of din­ing and the presentation of food is very casual, but the flavors themselves are any­thing but flippant. 
Authentic Cajun house specialties like 
jambalaya, gumbo and muffuletta provide 
for a hearty meal in addition to a unique selection of house mac & cheeses. A gen­
erous portion of light and fluffy beignets 
are a to-die-for snack or dessert. All of the menu items are executed well, so it’s hard to go wrong with any order. 
Daytime at the Chicory Café offers a calm atmosphere. Patrons relax on the sofa or enjoy laid-back activities like the café’s Thursday Scrabble club. With check­erboard tables and a shelf full of board games, the restaurant provides plenty of additional informal entertainment opportunities. 
By night, the café is frequently energized by live music, like these upcoming acts on their weekend music calendar. In addition to special acts, local musicians can take part in a songwriter showcase. 
The space gets more interactive with weekly events including live trivia on Wednesdays and open-mic comedy the first Thursday of every month as well as special events like wine tastings and salsa nights. During these events, patrons can take ad­vantage of the bar, which offers wine, craft beers and other spirits. 
A welcoming attitude permeates all as­pect of the venue. Music events have no cover and all ages are welcome. This is one of the few off-campus places where you could feasibly hangout all day, doing home­work, playing games, listening to music and, of course, eating great food. It works equally well as a destination for a group outing or simply for some alone-time. Even if you’re just stopping in, the Chicory Café has something for everyone. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at  kmcgarry@nd.edu 

A caprese sandwich on French bread from Chicory Café. 

An order of beignets from Chicory Café. 

The front counter and menu at Chicory Café. 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 

SUDOKU | The mepham group 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: This is a year for learning and implementing the knowledge and skills you acquire in unique and trendy ways. your insight and drive will give you the courage to forge ahead with confidence. your mindset will be that of a winner, and your dreams, hopes and wishes are all within reach. love is encouraged, and personal plans can be put into motion. your numbers are 6, 18, 20, 27, 32, 44, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): face emotional issues, and clear up pressing matters that could hinder your ability to focus. you’ll come up with reasonable solutions if you are understanding and remain calm. make plans to share something you enjoy doing with someone special. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): choose quality over quantity. an opportunity to work at something you enjoy doing will be made available. getting along with your peers will help you gain respect and clout. a money matter is best handled privately. don’t share personal information. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do something that will make you feel good. good fortune could result from doing something unexpected for someone you love. you can form a closer relationship if you surprise someone with a romantic rendezvous. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep your emotions under control. handle situations with diplomacy. Keep unique alternatives in mind in order to offset anything you may not like. Try not to make a fuss if you encounter difficulties. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t let your ego get in your way. concentrate on what’s truly important and put your differences aside. There is no point in arguing when your energy should be put into taking action and getting things done. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you’ll have some great ideas to share with your peers. working as a team will bring results that exceed your expectations. be liberal with your ideas and conservative with your spending, and you’ll reach a happy balance. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a partnership will help you explore new territory. Taking a vacation or just enjoying time with someone special will open your mind to an alternative lifestyle. let passion take over and romance lead the way. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): look for something that stands out, and you will find a workable solution. your keen perception and understanding will give you an advantage when dealing with relationships. seeing all sides of a situation will help you gain support. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): stay active. your involvement in physical challenges will require enthusiasm and the will to succeed. don’t underestimate your competition. put everything you’ve got into winning. a romantic evening will be celebratory.  

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take one step at a time. ease into any situation you face involving friends, family or community discussions. if you want to bring about change, do so by offering a solid plan as well as incentives. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): do something that will update your look or help you set a trend. your desire to experiment will be appealing to someone who wants to be more like you. enjoy the compliments and plan something romantic with someone you love. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your story straight. it’s important not to deviate from the truth and to allow others the benefit of the doubt. simple and straightforward dealings will bring the best results. protect your reputation. 

Birthday Baby: you are brave, bold and beautiful. you are entertaining, encouraging and motivated. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 




Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Against all odds, Portland rebuilds 

Alex Carson 
assistant managing editor 
in the nba this year, all the chatter’s been about two teams: golden state and san antonio. 
and clearly, it’s been de­served. we’ve been fixated on the warriors’ pursuit of chas­ing down the 1995-96 chicago bulls’ 72-10 best-ever record. and when we aren’t talking about the defending champi­ons, it’s about the san antonio spurs, who are two home wins away from becoming the first team ever to finish a season unbeaten on its home court. 
That the spurs could go 41-0 at home and still not be the western conference’s no. 1 seed is ridiculous — but the accomplishments of golden state and san antonio over­shadow the best accomplish­ment this season west of the mississippi. 
Just look to damian lillard, 
c.J. mccollum and the Trail blazers for that answer. 
in July, the outlook seemed bleak for portland. lamarcus aldridge, one of the game’s best big men, bolted for san antonio and with him, three other pieces from the blazers’ starting five followed him out the door. what once looked like a promising, strong core that could find success in the playoffs — who could forget lillard’s ice-cold 3-pointer in game 6 of the opening round to top houston in 2014? — had suddenly disappeared. 
well, except that lillard guy. somehow slighted for an all-star game spot once more 
— seriously, when are we go­ing to learn to get this kid in the game? — lillard has led the blazers right back to where they were a season ago: the playoffs. 
with portland’s win over oklahoma city on wednesday night, the best story of the year became official. i had the luxury of being in portland, oregon, during the start of nba free agency, and to say the future was bleak for the blazers would be an understatement. with four-fifths of the starting lineup gone, it was all about wondering how portland could rebuild moving forward. 
but general manager neil olshey didn’t panic and put to­gether a squad that could push for the conference’s no. 5 seed and a winnable first-round contest with the clippers. 
having mccollum in the arsenal, of course, made the job a lot easier. The former lehigh star — yes, the guy who dropped 30 to beat duke as a no. 15 seed in the ncaa tour­nament in 2012 — has seen his minutes explode this year, and he’s taken full advantage of it. after averaging just 6.8 points in 15.7 minutes per game a season ago, mccollum’s av­eraging 20.9 points per game this time around, putting himself in position to win the nba’s most improved player award. 
even before the mass exo­dus from rip city, olshey was making moves that would pay dividends this year, ac­quiring mason plumlee in a draft-night deal from the nets. plumlee has been an influen­tial addition, starting every game and averaging 9.1 points per game for the blazers. 
The signing of al-farouq aminu, who’s averaging dou­ble figures, was shrewd, too, and head coach Terry stotts has done a fantastic job of resurrecting aminu’s once-stagnant career — the former lottery pick will top 10 points per game for the first time in his career this season. stotts has worked his magic with allen crabbe, too, who’s been one of the nba’s best sixth men this season. 
of course, it’d be remiss to talk about the Trail blazers’ return to the playoffs without mentioning the difference between this season’s western conference and last’s. if the blazers win their final two games, they’ll finish 45-37, the exact same mark oklahoma city missed the playoffs with last year. 
regardless though, with a weakened portland squad, an aging, deandre Jordan-less mavericks team (remember that ordeal?) and a rockets team that had never showed its full potential, most expect­ed an open door to contention in the west. 
it’s just that most didn’t ex­pect the blazers to be the team walking through the door they created. 
where the pelicans and suns, among others, have failed miserably, portland’s succeeded — and there’s something to be said for that. 
There’s a certain assump­tion that the Thunder and clippers should have no issues moving onto their second-round matchups with san antonio and golden state. and while it’ll be good entertain­ment if it happens, don’t sleep on portland. 
we’ve all done it once this year. who knows what could happen if we all do so again? 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SMC TENNIS 
belles look forward to challenging matches 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 
The belles face two strong challenges at home this weekend as they look to con­tinue their winning streak in conference play against hope on saturday and non-conference opponent north central on sunday. 
hope (7-4, 1-0 miaa) has won seven of its last eight games and is on a three game winning streak. belles head coach dale campbell said the flying dutch will be a power just as they was last year with their first-place miaa finish. 
“hope is a perennial pow­er, so we will be coming in as the underdog in this match,” campbell said. “we have to be ready to play our best tennis. we have to play strategically sound, and put together our best combina­tions of shots.” 
The flying dutch are a strong team overall, and campbell said the belles will have to find a way to get the match wins they need. 
“well, of course it is im­portant to get off to a good start in doubles,” campbell said. “They are strong indi­vidually, so our team has to unify together to beat them in doubles. in singles, each player has to figure out their opponent and play their best. The bottom line is that you have to find a way to get five wins. 
“we should be more com­fortable [in these matches], since we have played a lot of matches to this point. That match against olivet gave us the feeling of playing a con­ference match. They were definitely coming after us.” 
with a game on saturday and sunday, campbell said the result against hope should not affect sunday’s play against north central (10-5, 4-3 cciw). 
“if we do a good job of pre­paring our team, [the back-to-back matches] should not matter,” campbell said. “we have to take one match at a time. saturday’s is most important because it counts for the conference standings. win or lose, sunday will be a new day, and we have to pre­pare to play well every day.” 
last week, flying dutch senior marie haloway was named miaa player of the week, and north central junior Kelsey forkin was named cciw player of the week. campbell said his team will have to work to­gether to mitigate the pres­ence of the two players. 
“mostly it will be a team effort on our part,” campbell said. “opening up with dou­bles, it is a team game where matching up with an indi­vidual is not as important. we play nine total matches, so we won’t be able to focus on just one.” 
The belles face hope at saint mary’s tennis courts saturday at 1 p.m. They fol­low that on sunday with a match against north central at 1 p.m. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 
MLB | whiTe sox 6, aThleTics 1 
ventura earns 300th win with defeat of a’s 
Associated Press 
oaKland, calif. — mat latos gave up one hit over six shutout innings for his first win since last July, Jose abreu hit a two-run homer and the chicago white sox beat the oakland athletics 6-1 on Thursday to give manager robin ventura his 300th career win. 
a free agent who struggled this spring after signing with chicago in the offseason, latos (1-0) was stellar in his white sox debut while striking out two and walking one. 
he retired 13 of the first 14 batters and didn’t allow a bas­erunner until chris coghlan’s one-out single in the fifth — one pitch after left fielder J.b. shuck dropped coghlan’s foul ball. 

FOR SALE 
Bible For Sale: First Catholic Bible Printed in America by Mathew Carey, 1790. Very Rare. Full Brown Leather. Good Condition. Approximately 45 known copies. $30,000. Call for de­tails. 207-299-3962 
abreu homered on a 1-1 pitch from oakland starter Kendall graveman in the sixth. The white sox slugger added a sac­rifice fly during chicago’s four-run ninth. 
it’s been a good start to the season for the white sox, who outscored the a’s 16-10 while taking three of four in the series. 
Zach duke, matt albers, nate Jones and Zach putnam com­bined to pitch the final three innings, completing the four-hitter for chicago. 
dioner navarro, Tyler saladino and melky cabrera added rbi singles in the ninth. 
graveman (0-1) pitched well, too, despite being ill with flu-like symptoms earlier this week. he allowed three hits in 5 2/3 innings with four strike­outs and one walk. 
coghlan singled home oakland’s lone run in the ninth off putnam. 
STILL THE MAN 
There was some uncertainty about who the a’s closer would be after oakland pitched lefty sean doolittle in the first two games and then used right-hander ryan madson in wednesday’s win. manager bob melvin said he’s open to using both relievers in the role depending on the circum­stances but was adamant that the job is doolittle’s. “if there is some matchup in the eighth that would suggest more of a lefty . we would make an ad­justment that way,” melvin said. “but as we sit here sean’s our closer when you’re break­ing down where our bullpen is.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
live-in nanny. Email: info@greymat-
WANTED 
tersintl.com 
TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND Need a babysitter for Sep 9th eve family needs an energetic, outdoor-when Domer family in for a football loving, reliable gal to travel to beau-weekend. Contact info@greymat­tiful Jackson Hole WY from end of tersintl.com May/early June to early August as our 



SMC LACROSSE | smc 12, adrian 9 
SMC wins first MIAA contest of the season 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports writer 
saint mary’s’ first confer­ence game of the 2016 season was a success as the belles de­feated adrian on wednesday, 12-9. 
The belles (4-5, 1-0 miaa) shone through offensively, de­spite the cold and rainy con­ditions. four players scored the belles’ 12 goals, each one scoring on multiple occasions. This win was an especially important one for the belles, head coach amy long said. 
“we only have eight confer­ence games so it was very im­portant we won our first miaa game of the season,” long said. “every game from here on out is very important and we will continue to prepare for each of them with intensity and discipline.” 
although the bulldogs (1-7, 0-1 miaa) struck first, saint mary’s quickly took control of the game by scoring the next four goals. freshman mid­fielder Kate Kelly made the belles’ first offensive move, scoring twice to begin their scoring run. Kelly’s two goals were followed by goals by sophomore midfielder clare Theisen and junior captain, midfielder and attack combo emilie vanneste. 
goalkeeper and junior cap­tain shannon weyer played the entire game and picked up 12 saves on the day, a sea­son high for the belles. long said she was very pleased with weyer’s performance in net. 
“weyer made 12 saves while only allowing nine goals in what i consider her best game ever,” long said. “she also helped out our defense by col­lecting five ground balls and one caused turnover.” 
meanwhile, adrian strug­gled to contain the saint mary’s offense, as its goal­keeper was only able to save one shot over the course of the entire game. 
weyer’s defense held the bulldogs to only three goals throughout the first peri­od, which was an especially promising sign for long. 
“adrian played solid mid­field defense and really chal­lenged us in our transition,” long said. “They had a couple players that were very fast so it was nice to see our de­fense step up and play body defense to slow them down effectively.” 
sophomore midfielder mary grace heller scored the belles’ final goal of the first half, bringing the belles’ total of the period to eight as the half ended with a score of 8-3. 
The second period brought even more success for the belles, who were able to main­tain their aggressive and con­sistent offense from the first half of the game. long said she was particularly happy with how her team’s offense performed. 
“we are improving each week, and i was impressed with our shots against adrian,” long said. “we scored our 12 goals on only 16 shots. although i would like to see us take more shots in a game, i was impressed with the accu­racy of our shots.” 
The belles and bulldogs traded goals to start the half, with heller scoring two more times. Kelly scored again to increase the belles’ lead to a margin of six and vanneste scored the belles’ final goal of the game, giving them a to­tal of 12. vanneste’s final goal also allowed her to pick up a hat trick, joining heller with three goals while Kelly tal­lied a game-high four. Kelly also had a very successful de­fensive game with five forced turnovers and eight ground ball pick-ups. 
next up for the belles is an­other conference game, as they take on olivet. long said her team needs to focus on limiting small mistakes going forward while still striving to meet the team’s ultimate goal. 
“our end goal has not changed,” long said. “we plan on qualifying for the miaa tournament. we are focused on smaller goals like limiting the turnovers we give up and winning both halves of each game we play that will get us to that ultimate goal of play­ing in the post season. we are focusing on playing tighter defense and executing an ef­fective midfield transition to prepare for saturday’s game. i expect olivet to bring as much to the table as adrian did and plan on preparing our team to be ready for better teams as i know we will be facing stron­ger teams in our upcoming conference play.” 
They will travel to play the comets (0-4, 0-0) at 1:00 
p.m. on saturday in olivet, michigan. 
Contact Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 
MASTERS 
spieth defends title at masters 
Associated Press 
augusTa, ga. — Jordan spieth is off to another great start in the masters because of the way he finished. 
his two biggest rivals were left behind because they couldn’t. 
spieth capped off the only bogey-free round in the wicked wind at augusta national by making a 15-foot par putt on the 16th hole and hitting an 8-iron into 6 feet for birdie on the final hole for a 6-under 66 and a two-shot lead, the first step in his bid to win another green jacket. 
Jason day couldn’t keep pace. on the verge of tying for the lead late in the round Thursday, day dropped five shots in three holes and had to settle for a 72. rory mcilroy pulled to within two shots of the lead until he made two bogeys over the last three holes. 
when a day of big wind, big numbers and far too many putts for ernie els was finally 
over, it felt as though nothing had changed from last year. spieth is the man to beat at the masters. 
he was atop the leaderboard for the fifth straight round, and he has had at least a share of the lead in six of the last seven rounds at the masters. one more and he matches the lon­gest streak since arnold palmer in 1960 and the opening two rounds of 1961. 
and just like last year, now it’s time for the rest of the field to try to catch him. 
“we’re through one round,” spieth said. “There’s going to be a lot of different changes. There are going to be a lot of different birdies, bogeys and everything in between. we know how to win this golf tournament, and we believe in our process. and if the putts are dropping, then hopefully it goes our way.” 
he had a two-shot lead over danny lee and shane lowry. Three shots behind was a group that included sergio garcia, Justin rose and paul casey. 
paid adverTisemenT 



paid adverTisemenT 



TRACK & FIELD 

Notre Dame heads west for Sun Angel Classic 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
The irish will compete out west in the sun angel classic this weekend, a meet hosted by arizona state in Tempe, arizona. a team of 16 jump­ers, throwers and sprinters will make the trip for notre dame against a field that includes several post-collegiate athletes and teams like Texas a&m, new mexico and byu. 
for irish head coach alan Turner, the game plan is simple. 
“for the competing athletes, the goal is to take advantage of the competition, the venue and the weather, using it to put up some fast times, big jumps and long throws,” Turner said. “[we] just have to build upon the performances from their previous meet and continue to improve.” 
in the field department, notre dame is coming off strong performances at the stanford invitational from juniors anthony shivers and Josephine Jackson. after winning the shot put with a throw of 14.76 me­ters and a tenth-place finish in the discus throw, Jackson will be the only true field per­former for the irish women over the weekend. shivers won the men’s discus throw with a distance of 54.15 meters in his last performance, and will be joined by senior thrower nick hauser, freshman jumper matt birzer and sophomore jump­ers hunter holton and drake stimson as the other field participants. 
The irish will also be com­peting in the heptathlon and decathlon, as grad-student carly loeffel and senior brent swanberg look to build on strong performances at the acc indoor championships in february. 
The no. 19 women’s team will be competing in a num­ber of its strongest events. The irish sprinting lineup includes freshman Kyla lewis and soph­omores allison bartoszewicz, parker english, payton miller and Jordan shead. senior margaret bamgbose, who is set to make her outdoor season debut, and grad student Kaila barber round out the field. 
bamgbose came in fifth overall in the 400-meter dash at the ncaa indoor national championships in march while barber won both the 100- and 400-meter hurdles at the yellow Jacket invitational in her last performance, garnering her acc performer of the week honors last week. 
“both bamgbose and barber have performed at a high level since their arrival on campus,” Turner said. “They are very fit at the moment and will be in peak shape in mid to late may. i am expecting them to run very well not only in their in­dividual events, but to also run well in both the 4x100-meter and 4x400-meter relays. Kaila will run the 400 hurdles and margaret the 400 meters. i am expecting both to post times that will place them in the top-five currently in the ncaa.” 
for the men, junior alex groesch is the sole sprinter competing. 
The star distance duo of se­nior molly seidel and freshman anna rohrer have yet to com­pete in the outdoor season, but Turner is confident they will return soon after dealing with minor injuries. 
“molly hurt her back slight­ly after the ncaa indoor 
paid adverTisemenT 

championships and was sched­uled to compete last week at stanford,” Turner said. “she will probably run at the end of the month or the first week of may. anna’s had pain in her calf and tibia area for the last month. we are not sure when she will suit up. probably at the virginia challenge meet in a few weeks.” 
The irish will compete this friday and saturday at the Joe selleh Track at sun angel stadium in Tempe. forecasts predict the temperature each day will reach the low 80s. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at  thoonhou@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

M Lax 
conTinued from page 16 
momentum going and make sure we don’t take any steps back,” landis said. “duke is a great team and an acc rival so it’s a game we’re going to take very seriously.” 
following a slow offensive start early on against then-no. 2 denver on march 13, notre dame saw itself hold­ing a five-goal lead against syracuse at the end of two pe­riods. They then scored eight of the last nine goals of the contest. and it’s that focus that’s going to be key against duke, landis said. 
“our offense was on fire [against syracuse], mov­ing the ball with efficiency, finishing shots and playing unselfishly,” landis said. “if we can keep that up, defens­es will have a tough time staying with us in extended possessions. 
“i think the biggest chal­lenge we face is internal. we need to stay disciplined and not lose our focus heading into this weekend’s game. we’ve had some very im­pressive wins heading into this game, but we can still improve.” 
The blue devils, despite an overtime loss to no. 11 north carolina on friday, have posted several high-scoring games this season. They fell, 17-16, to the Tar heels but beat syracuse on march 26 with 16 goals, georgetown on march 19 with 20 and loyola on march 12 with 15. 
“duke has some very im­pressive dodgers and shoot­ers in [senior midfielders] myles Jones [and] deemer class and the rest of the of­fense, so we need to play very disciplined and make sure we limit their opportunities,” landis said. “it’ll take all six guys — seven including [ju­nior goalie shane] doss in net — to maintain duke’s offense.” 
like the irish, the blue devils push every game to the very end. Their last three con­tests were decided in over­time, just as notre dame’s matchup against denver and an extra-frame victory over virgina on march 19 ended. 
“[duke is] a team that doesn’t quit, very much like ours,” landis said. “it will be a battle right until the final whistle, and i think it’ll be a great experience for the fans at the already sold-out game.” 
notre dame hosts acc­rival duke on sunday at arlotta stadium. The teams face-off at noon. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish look to rebound on Sunday in Illinois 

Observer Staff Report 
no. 7 notre dame has bounced back from defeat with a comfortable win on the road twice this season. after last week’s 14-8 de­feat at the hands of north carolina, the irish (10-3, 3-3 acc) have a chance to rebound again when they travel to evanston, illinois, to meet no. 19 northwestern on sunday. 
The game will not only be an opportunity to rebound from a defeat for the irish, but it will also be a rematch of last year’s ncaa second-round encounter. The irish took an early 3-1 lead during the game, but it was the the wildcats (5-6, 0-1 big Ten) who won, 16-11, to advance to the third round, where they were defeated by even­tual champions maryland. senior Kaleigh craig and sophomore selena lasota, who both return for the wildcats, were the stars of the game, each picking up five goals. for the irish, se­nior rachel sexton and ju­nior heidi annaheim each earned three goals and an assist. 
This year, neither team has been a stranger to highly-rat­ed opposition. The wildcats are the eighth of 11 current-ly-ranked teams on notre dame’s schedule, and the three irish losses have come against no. 5 louisville, no. 4 syracuse and no. 3 north carolina. a formidable out­of-conference slate has given northwestern a similarly dif­ficult schedule, facing a total of 12 currently-ranked teams this year. That strength of schedule has seen the wildcats remain ranked de­spite their current losing record, with the season so far highlighted by wins over then-no. 4 duke and no. 10 stony brook. 
The irish will hope to get out of the blocks quicker than they did last week against north carolina. in that game, the irish fell be­hind 9-1 after just over 15 minutes, their largest deficit of the season. despite bring­ing the game back to within three goals midway through the second half, the early hole was too much for the irish to overcome. 
The wildcats come into the game after rebounding from a two-game slide in emphat­ic fashion, with a comfort­able 20-4 win over michigan Thursday night, behind a 15-0 first half. 
irish graduate student defender and Tewaaraton award finalist barbara sullivan enters the game with an opportunity to make team history. with 43 caused turnovers — which currently leads all players in the country — she needs only three more to tie the school single-season record, a mark of 46 set by Jackie doherty in 2011. sullivan already shares the single-game record with seven and holds the career record with 
148. Junior attacker cortney fortunato will also look to continue a successful year for the irish. her 62 points currently place her first in the acc and sixth in the nation. 
The wildcats have not been a prolific scoring team this year, totalling only 115 goals, led by senior craig’s 25, and converting only .370 of their shots. however, northwestern has been a strong team on the draw this year, out-controlling their opponents 141-106. Key to that success in winning possession has been soph­omore midfielder shelby fredricks: fredricks has 62 draw controls this year, good for second in the big Ten behind maryland’s Taylor cummings. 
The irish will have the opportunity to avenge last year’s defeat to the wildcats on sunday at 2 p.m., when the two teams take the field at lakeside field in evanston. 



Baseball 
conTinued from page 16 
the team is led by junior catcher Zach collins and sophomore center fielder carl chester, both of whom have batting averages well over .400 in conference play. irish senior shortstop and co-captain lane richards, who has six hits and six runs scored in his last three games for notre dame, said the team’s success in re­cent weeks should give it confidence heading into such a tough matchup. 



“we just need to keep playing like we’ve been playing,” richards said. “we’ve really been on a roll, the last couple weeks especially. we’ve really found ourselves and kind of our team identity. That identity is work hard, put the past in the past – what­ever happens, focus on the next pitch and really grind through games. and so with that kind of iden­tity that we’ve built up, i think we’re ready to take on anyone.” 
although notre dame has the advantage of hav­ing played in colder weath­er more recently than miami, richards does not think it should affect how the games are played. 
“i think the only advan­tage [the weather] gives us is if [the hurricanes] let it,” richards said. “i think we play the same no matter what the weather is, and — we don’t take pride in play­ing in the cold, but we’re just as ready as we are for any other game.” 
after having to resched­ule wednesday night’s game against valparaiso to next wednesday because of rain, the irish again had to change their schedule with inclement weather expect­ed for the weekend. friday night’s game has been pushed back to saturday afternoon. 
should no other changes to the schedule be made, the series will open with a doubleheader saturday. game one will start at 1 
p.m. with game two im­mediately following. all three games of the series will be played at frank eck stadium. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Softball 
conTinued from page 16 
Zeremenko also leads the panthers with 12 home runs. 
“[pittsburgh is] very pow­erful,” gumpf said. “we want to keep them in the yard and make them swing at pitches we want them to swing at. so if we’re doing that, we’re do­ing some things really well.” 
on the mound, notre dame has relied on senior left-hander allie rhodes and junior right-hander rachel nasland to carry the bulk of the load. rhodes paces the irish with 12 wins in 18 starts and has accumulated 104 strikeouts on the year. 
nasland, on the other hand, leads the irish with a 1.93 era and picked up her 10th win of the sea­son against the Jaguars on Tuesday. gumpf said rhodes and nasland have been per­forming well and need to continue to keep games within reach. 
“The one thing our team always needs is, they need someone to keep us in the ballgame,” gumpf said. “i think rachel and allie have both proven that they are ca­pable of doing that and give us a chance to win. That’s their whole goal. Their goal isn’t to be perfect. Their goal is to give us a chance to win, keep us in the ballgame.” 
as it currently stands, the irish and the panthers will play a doubleheader on saturday, followed by a noon matchup on sunday. however, unusually cold weather in south bend may force some or all of the games to be cancelled. notre dame already postponed its game against depaul from Thursday to april 27. gumpf said the possibility of a can­cellation will not affect her team’s preparation. 
“That’s completely uncon­trollable,” gumpf said. “we try not to worry about that as much as possible. we’re going to go out saturday ready to play and if we play, if we get [the games] in, we’ll get them in.” 
The irish and the panthers are currently slated to begin action saturday at 1 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame to welcome 
miami offers tough 

ACC-rival Duke on Sunday 
matchup for nd 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
The irish make their way back to south bend to host acc-rival duke on sunday. 
after two road wins, no. 1 notre dame (7-1, 2-0 acc) return for home-field ad­vantage against the no. 13 blue devils (7-5, 1-1). notre dame shut down then no. 7 syracuse (6-3, 1-2) on saturday by a 10-point mar­gin, 17-7, handing the orange their worst home loss in 29 seasons. The week before the irish came out of columbus, ohio, with a narrow 9-8 vic­tory over ohio state (5-6, 0-1 big Ten), thanks to a domi­nant third quarter. 
heading into sunday’s matchup against duke, the irish have begun to find their rhythm, something they only hope to build, senior defense matt landis said. 
“we want to keep our 
see m lax PAGE 14 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The irish will look to keep their string of strong perfor­mances going this weekend against the highest-ranked team they’ve faced all sea­son — no. 2 miami. 
The hurricanes (24-4, 10-2 acc) come into the series as one of the hottest teams in all of college baseball. They’ve won their last eight games and 19 of their last 21 stretching back to the begin­ning of march. 
but notre dame (16-11, 6-6 acc) is on a hot streak of its own. The irish have won eight of their last nine as well as 10 of 13. 
in Tuesday night’s win over then no. 17 michigan, the irish offense put up nine runs to extend its tor­rid streak of scoring five or more to 10 straight. 
That streak will be tested against a miami pitching 
CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Irish senior defense Matt Landis looks to pass the ball during Notre Dame’s 8-7 victory in overtime against Virginia on March 19. 
staff that has limited acc opponents to a .263 batting average against so far this season. 
notre dame will likely need to rely on junior sec­ond baseman cavan biggio to continue getting on base and scoring runs, as he leads irish starters in both catego­ries with a .522 on base per­centage and 26 runs scored on the season. 
The team’s recent success, however, has come as a re­sult of finding contributions up and down the lineup as well as a starting pitching staff that has been nothing short of dominant over the last few weeks. 
miami will counter with a balanced team of its own. on the mound, the hurricanes field a trio of pitchers who all boast sub­3 eras – sophomore Jesse lepore, junior danny garcia and sophomore michael mediavilla. and at the plate, 
see baseball PAGE 15 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish to return to conference play against Pitt 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
following a brief interlude against iupui, no. 20 notre dame returns to conference play and hosts pittsburgh in a three-game series this weekend. 
The irish (27-6, 5-3 acc) enter the series against the panthers (24-13, 5-7 acc) having won two games in a row, including a 5-4 walk-off victory against no. 9 florida state. sophomore left field­er bailey bigler’s game-winning single handed the seminoles their first acc loss of the year, and clutch hitting has been a trend for the irish in their recent contests. 
in addition to bigler’s sin­gle, freshman designated player caitlyn brooks broke the iupui game open in the second inning with a three-run home run that turned a 3-2 irish lead into an insur­mountable 6-2 advantage. irish head coach deanna gumpf said she has been impressed with her team’s ability to get hits in key situations. 
have done a great job of, even when we’re behind, mak­ing things happen through­out the lineup,” gumpf said. “luckily it’s somebody new everyday. we don’t have to depend on just three hitters. we can depend on nine, and that’s really nice. i think it’s something our team is very confident with, if we can get a runner on, we can score.” 
but the irish offense isn’t only performing when the spotlight is on. led by junior center fielder Karley wester, notre dame is currently eighth in the nation in bat­ting average at .346 and 11th in runs per game with 7.30. wester sports an average of .437 and leads the team with 55 hits and 29 stolen bases. 
The panthers will bring offensive firepower when they come to town as well. sophomore catcher giorgiana Zeremenko high­lights a pittsburgh lineup that averages just under seven runs a game. The canonsburg, pennsylvania, native is hitting .429 on the year with 42 rbis and a slug­ging percentage of .952, cur­rently seventh in the country. 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

“i think if you look at our Irish junior center fielder Karley Wester swings at an approaching pitch during Notre Dame’s 10-2 win games this entire spring, we see sofTball PAGE 15 over Eastern Michigan at Melissa Cook Stadium on March 22. She leads the team with 55 hits. 




