The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 95 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Center celebrates 15 years of community 
Robinson Community Learning Center has promoted academic and cultural growth since 2001 
By SELENA PONIO 
news writer 
For the past 15 years, the robinson community learning center (rclc), lo­cated in south bend’s north­east neighborhood, has been running programs for lo­cal students in an effort to promote academic and cul­tural growth. This Friday, the rclc will be celebrating this accomplishment with an event open to the public. 
The event is called “rclc moments in Time” and will feature speeches from university president Fr. John Jenkins, manager of the rclc Jennifer knapp beudert and university 
president  emeritus  Fr.  
edward “monk” malloy.  
notre  dame  junior  and  

rclc volunteer sierra hajdu said this event is, at its es­sence, a celebration of the partnership between notre dame and the rclc. 
“it’s a place where all family members of the neighborhood can come to­gether,” hajdu said. “i love its breadth of multidisci­plinary organizations that are all so dedicated to cre­ating bonds between people and strengthening the com­munity. it’s a safe-haven, an academic center, a gold mine for imagination and creativity and a place of encouragement.” 
Junior marisa olsen has been tutoring for the rclc for three years and said the center is much more than an academic place — it is also a place of empowerment and inclusion. 
“i love asking the kids about their day, simply be­cause the answer is always 
see rclc PAGE 3 




professor explores racial movements 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
is there a difference between the civil rights movement and the black lives matter move­ment? is it one intergeneration­al movement? These are the questions students gathered to answer in a roundtable discus­sion Thursday in laFortune between photographs from 1967 protests in montgomery, alabama, and the 2015 protests in Ferguson, missouri. 
“This is the kind of imagery that tells us that things haven’t really changed — things are the same,” greene said. “what do these similarities say about the nation’s ‘progress’ towards eliminating racial violence? we 
every Thursday of February, with the concluding lecture slated to occur Feb. 25. 
stuart greene, associate pro­fessor of english with a joint ap­pointment in the department of africana studies, moderated the discussion. he began by challenging students to iden­tify similarities and differences ment from the black lives matter movement, explaining there is no definite end to the movement. 
“This has always been a hu­man rights movement, [and that] is what i think makes this a continuous movement,” 
see civil righTs PAGE 4 


Student produces YouTube videos, empowers viewers 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 

as a saint mary’s first year, marialicia garza has to bal­ance classes and extracurricu­lar activities — and a youTube channel. garza’s beauty and lifestyle videos on her chan­nel, mari g1007, encourage viewers to press play on their 
“i want them to know not ev­eryone is going to be perfect, and not everything is going to be easy in life, but if you keep striving for what you want, you’re definitely going to be able to do it, regardless of the circumstances,” garza said. “i hope they know or at least un­derstand that even if it seems like everything is going com­pletely wrong, they can totally turn it around themselves as long as they keep pushing to do as much as they can.” 
garza said this desire to in­still hope and perseverance in her viewers prompted her to upload a video titled “¡¡¡ si se pueden !!!” in which she mo-

tivates people to seek higher education. she filmed the clip entirely in spanish so that the message of empowerment could reach as wide of an au­dience as possible, garza said. 
“our younger generations have kind of lost what the point of getting an education is,” garza said. “it’s also im­portant that not everything always has to be in english. because this is in spanish, it can reach people all across the country and even down into latin america.” 

garza said she hopes the video resonates with students in her home city of detroit, michigan, where she attended one of the area’s few private 
schools and took classes with 
supportive teachers who mo­
tivated her to aim high. 
“They always pushed us to 

apply to schools, even if it was 
just to the local community 
colleges,” garza said. “yes, lease. There will be a discussion separate the civil rights move-techniques from her videos. 
student center.  gasp at the similarities. here  dreams and aspirations.  
The conversation, part of a  we are, 50 years later, and we’re  The channel gives her au­ 
black  history  month discus- still asking, ‘when did the po­ dience a candid glimpse into  
sion series, was sponsored by  lice become so militarized?’  her life through tutorials and  
multicultural  peace,  equality  and the answer is, ‘about 50  product reviews, but  garza  
and  community (mpec),  ac- years ago.’”  said she hopes people learn  
cording to a university press re­ greene said it is impossible to  far more than new makeup  

i came from not so great of a city and background, but, at the same time, it’s kind of like, ‘if i can do it, i’m sure you can do it as well.’” 
according to garza, people who doubt their capabilities should surround themselves 
see videos PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 8 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney                       cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What do you want to be when you grow up? 

Adam Logeman 

Monica Nye 
senior 
junior 
Zahm house 
le mans hall 
“an elf in santa’s workshop.” 
“nurse.” 

Maureen Daday 

Alex Dorsey 
junior 
sophomore 
le mans hall 
pasquerilla east hall 
“music therapist.” 
“astrophysicist.” 

Luke Brahier 

Erin Bradford 
sophomore 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
pasquerilla east hall 
“adam logeman.” 
“Famous lip-syncer.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
kayla mullen marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

nicole caratas manny de Jesus martha reilly ben padanilam 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
Janice chung matt mcmahon 
Photo Viewpoint 

“The Bear” and Alex Wilson ND Women’s Lacrosse “Getting Started in Nonprofit Breakfast 
caitlyn Jordan Tabitha ricketts 
“Afterplay” Invitational vs. Boston College Research” Series 
DeBartolo Performing Loftus Sports Center  Arlotta Stadium Brownson Hall Mendoza College of Arts Center all day  12 p.m.-2 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Business 
Corrections 

7:30p.m.-9:30 p.m. Men’s and women’s The Irish take on the Workshop on initiating 7 a.m.-9:30 a.m. 
The observer regards itself as Two spirited comedies. indoor track competes. Eagles. a project on campus. Overview of wages. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Improv Show: Junior Parents Solemn Vespers An Evening with Bengal Bouts 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
“Second City” Weekend Concert Basilica of the Sacred Anna Deavere Smith Semifinals 
however, recognize that we will make 
Washington Hall Ricci Band Rehersal Heart O’Laughlin Auditorium Joyce Center 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9 p.m.-11 p.m. Hall 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 7:30 pm-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Join Second City for a 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Evening prayer in the Performance on the Funds benefit Missions 
we can correct our error. 

night of laughter. Jazz performances. Lady Chapel. narrative of Ferguson. in Bangladesh. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | The observer 


professor explains gravitational waves findings 
By SARAH CATE BAKER 
news writer 
a long time ago, in a gal­axy far away, two black holes merged into one. Their colli­sion sent out waves of energy that moved across the uni­verse. however, these waves were not detected until Feb. 11, when scientists of the laser interferometer gravitational-
in this case, that mass is two black holes that orbited each other until they merged into one. according to howk, these black holes were about 30 solar masses each, or 30 times the size of our sun. 
“if you add the two black holes’ masses before they merged, the number was 65 ripples that propagate out.” 
Those ripples are the gravi­tational waves detected last week by ligo. according to its website, ligo is a world-wide collaboration of more than 80 scientific institutions, with two laboratories in the united states – one in louisiana and one in washington. The group used specialized lasers 
einstein’s theory of rela­tively predicted the presence of these waves in 1916, and astronomers discovered a set of neutron stars whose orbit confirmed their existence in the 1970s. 
“of course, we knew gravi­tational wave existed,” howk said. “but this is definitely the first direct detection.” 
there were black holes more than 25 times the mass of the sun, but we certainly never had any evidence. 
“now we have two of them, and now they’ve made an even bigger one,” he said 
This technology can also be used to study neutron stars, the leftover cores of stars that are large enough to super­nova but not large enough to 


to detect the energy waves, howk said the detection 
wave 
observatory (ligo) 
scientific collaboration 
heard them for the first time. 
“They’re basically ripples 
in the fabric of space-time,” 
associate professor of as­
trophysics Jay christopher the website said. is exciting because it offers form black holes, howk said. 

“effectively what they have a new way of studying black “now we can learn about 
are two sets of masses, and holes and other phenomenon. various types of supernova 
they can measure the dis-“any time you have some that we think are driven by 
tance between them very new way for gathering infor­neutron star merges,” howk 

precisely using lasers,” howk mation about the universe, said. “and that’s very impor­
said. it just opens up whole new tant for making some of the 
howk said. “you have to think a gravitational wave will fields,” howk said. “so now final elements on the period-about space as being pliable. solar masses,” howk said. make these masses move we’re going to be able to ask ic table, as one of the poten­it’s sort of like if you put a “after they merged, you had closer or father away from how often do black holes tial places they get made is in bowling ball in the middle 62 left over. so where did that each other, howk said. merge, how does that work … these neutron stars.” of trampoline, it warps the mass go? well, it turns out “That’s what we’re measur-even this event tells us some-space. mass does the same it was converted to energy, ing here, is the wiggling of thing we didn’t know before Contact Sarah Cate Baker at thing.” and that’s the energy of the these masses,” howk said. — we had an inkling that that sbaker6@nd.edu 
Group collects donations for Flint water crisis 
sophomore board member donations that can be sent should have, and could have, also teaches others about 
By MEGAN UEKERT 

news writer courtney weston said. to the Flint child health been avoided.” the injustice that occurred 
“The population of Flint, and development Fund. The The purpose of the collec-... [under] the Flint leaders,” 
This week, saint mary’s michigan, has been deeply af-fund was established by the tion is not only to raise money matthews said. college Justice education fected by their water crisis, es-community Foundation of for the residents of Flint, but according to the Flint board is hosting a fundraiser pecially the children,” weston greater Flint in order to re-also to raise awareness of the child health & development in the student center atrium said. “The children of Flint ceive state and federal fund-injustices that had taken place Fund website, all grants will for the ongoing water crisis in have been poisoned by the cor-ing, weston said. to lead to the crisis, sopho-be advised by a commit-Flint, michigan. rosive and lead-contaminated “This fund will help provide 
tee of community members 


according to sopho-water. any amount of lead is affordable care to the children 
more 

board member alex harmful to children and can of Flint who have been affect­
shambery, the primary focus have long term effects. ed by the lead exposure,” she 
of the Justice education board “These children have been said. “each of these children 
is to create awareness, under-exposed to the contaminat-deserve to recover and be 
standing and advocacy for jus-ed water for too long of a pe-healthy again. 
tice in any and all ways in the riod of time, and the damage “This is important to me be-
communities of saint mary’s done could inhibit them from cause i do not think it is fair with representation from 
residents, hurley children’s 
hospital, mott children’s 
health center, greater Flint 
health coalition, united way 
of genesee county and the 
community Foundation of 
greater Flint. 
college, university of notre dame, holy cross college and south bend. 
raising awareness of the events in Flint was an ide­al project for the board, this time on. To help these children of Flint, the Justice education board has created the ‘Flint Fund.’” 
according to weston, the board plans to gather that these children from Flint might not be able to function to their best potential due to something that was out of their control. The Flint water crisis was something which more board member morgan matthews said. 
“This project not only al­lows saint mary’s college to be a part of the solution, but 
To donate online, go to flintkids.org 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 
RCLC 
conTinued From page 1 
incredibly energetic, a bit over exaggerated and always full of lots of laughter and joy,” olsen said. “The rclc does a great job of giving students the academic tools they need to succeed, but also giving them a carefree and open environment to be themselves.” 
olsen said notre dame’s relationship with the rclc creates a stronger communi­ty network for the university and allows students to be ex­posed to the kind of diversi­ty that exists in south bend, whether it is socioeconomic status, ethnicity or academ­ic abilities. she said notre dame students act as men­tors and role models for the children at the center. 
“The diversity of indi­viduals we are exposed to is wonderful,” olsen said. “in addition, many of the stu­dents at the center look up to notre dame students and love hearing about our lives on campus. They all hope to go to notre dame one day, and it’s really exciting to hear how much they love the university.” 
hajdu says the center provides a place for her to step back from the chaos of the school week and enjoy herself. 
“i think that many of the students volunteer so that they can teach children and give back ... but oftentimes, they find that the people they work with in the cen­ter wind up teaching them greater life lessons,” hajdu said. “i find that it’s too easy at nd to get lost in the school work and what is expected of you. The time i spend at the center and volunteering for Take Ten is some of the best spent time of my weeks be­cause it gives me a chance to 
pause and have really mean­
ingful  interactions  with  
people.”  
The  celebration  Friday  

will include a video about the center’s history and an award ceremony for faculty and volunteers. 
“i am excited to hear the speakers talk about the rclc’s journey through time, the progression it has made and what it might look like in the future,” hajdu said. “This institu­tion means so much to so many people, and i am ea­ger to see the community come together to celebrate its achievements and, more importantly, the amazing people who are responsible for making the center such an incredible place.” 
To learn more about the RCLC, visit rclc.nd.edu 
Contact Selena Ponio at  sponio@nd.edu 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


impossible to delineate where washington was a march brutality in america, greene many think america is a po-
Civil Rights 

the civil rights movement about work. said. lice state that denies african­
conTinued From page 1 

ended and where the black “it’s a response to any gains “Jim crowe now manifests americans basic rights and 
lives matter began.” that black people get. you see himself in the mass incarcer-thus, unlike the civil rights greene said. “calling it a civ-according to greene, it is that most acutely in different ation of black men,” greene movement, which moved il rights movement actually important to understand the 
said. “we see the ways in through law or policy, the 

limits what people are strug-way activism exists within which protest can be crimi­black lives matter movement 
gling with. if we only think material, discursive and so­nalized. most of those march-is an outcry for dignity and 
about civil rights legislation cial spaces. These spaces con­ing [in birmingham]  were for opportunity, he said. 


and key leaders, we ignore tribute to creating movements 
what people are struggling that challenge how power op-
for — human dignity and the erates in law, institutions and 
ability to own spaces. media, greene said. youths — they were peace­“we miss the point if we 
ful. martin luther king was call the movement between 
simply arrested for peaceful 1948 and 1968 the civil rights 
protests. ... most of the adults movement when it was a 
“it’s hard in some ways to think the movement ended in 1968. whether you end the movement with the death of king or the demise of the panthers, the struggle never ended. i don’t see when the movement stopped — it’s 
“The movement was a se­ries of movements in differ­ent parts of the country with different goals,” greene said. “is the goal integration? That is the goal the naacp took up. is the goal about work? we forget that the march on periods of time.” 
The main struggle of the movement revolves around the disparity of opportuni­ty, childhood poverty, mass incarceration and police at this time refused to par­ticipate in protest, because it was a threat to their lives and their livelihoods.” 
according to greene, it would be more apt to call the civil rights movement a “human rights movement.” 
struggle for larger issues,” greene said. “i think the larger issue is, ‘why is be­ing black in this country a transgression?’” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 
Videos 
conTinued From page 1 
with ambitious individu­als who encourage them on the road to academic achievement. 
“making the video showed a little bit more awareness and that there are other peo­ple outside of the communi­ty who can make it possible for students to actually want to go and continue with their education,” garza said. “all i can hope is that maybe people put a little bit more thought into reaching out to services that either their high school or colleges them­selves can provide. There are all these resources out there, and i think they just need to utilize them better.” 
“¡¡¡ si se pueden !!!” has been shared more than 30 times on Facebook, but garza said she anticipated no such success, which made the decision to upload the video a difficult one. 
“i was hesitant at first when i did make it,” garza said. “i debated for about two and a half weeks wheth­er to post it or not. i put it out there, and the response i got was unbelievable. it turned more into something that i didn’t think it would be. it had more of an effect than i thought it would have.” 
Though she received praise for this particular video, the challenge of being a bilin­gual woman on youTube per­sists, garza said. 
“people are going to want to categorize you a little bit more and say, ‘you only do videos in this language. why can’t you do something dif­ferent?’” garza said. “There will always be criticism, but at the same time, it kind of helps you grow in a way be­cause you’re able to under­stand what other people are trying to tell you. you don’t take it to heart, but you learn to cope with it and readjust yourself through it.” 
garza said she hopes to continue producing qual­ity content while study­ing abroad in south korea this upcoming fall, as her knowledge of the beauty in­dustry may grant her distinct opportunities. 
“i’m really aware and up to date on the beauty aspects of business and the pro­cesses that go on behind the scenes,” garza said. “it will help me later. i’ll possibly be able to work with companies that make a wider range of global products that all peo­ple can use. it kind of gets tricky with makeup, espe­cially with skin tone.” 
For now, garza plans to film in both spanish and english and show viewers from all over that beauty lies in imperfections, she said. 
“i want to reach out to an audience and let people know i may have had similar experiences to them or even just brighten their day a little bit,” garza said. “i hope they see that even though they may come from harder back­grounds — and not every­thing is going to be handed to them in life — they can always still do what they want.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

paid adverTisemenT 



Wizard or Jedi? 
Megan Uekert 
news writer 

when i was a young child, i fell deeply in love with the wizarding world of harry potter, just like many children in my generation. i read ev­ery single book thrice and counted down the days until the next movie premiere. i would wish for poor eyesight so i would need glasses, and sometimes i would even use my mom’s eyeliner to draw the beloved lightning bolt scar on my forehead. it became my childhood and shaped me into the avid reader and coura­geous person i am today. against my parents’ will, i got a small tattoo to commemorate my wizardly love. 
looking back, i remember being aware star wars existed, and i knew who yoda was because i compared his reputation to dumbledore. however, the famed trilogies were just background noise. i was also driven away from the films because of their odd order of production. up until this year, my knowledge of star wars was based off the boxy lego figures i virtually battled with my brothers on our playstation. it wasn’t until the release of “star wars: The Force awakens” that i started to gain sincere interest. it seemed as if every instagram and every Facebook status i saw wor­shiped the new movie. “saturday night live” even had a grand time with the new release and especially actor adam driver. 
it was a Friday evening when i fi­nally caved and saw the movie with my roommate (who had already seen it twice). after being against the Force for so many years, i left that theatre in awe. it was easily the best movie i had ever seen — aside from “The goblet of Fire.” That week­end, i binge-watched all the star wars movies and watched countless youTube videos of interviews with the cast. Then my roommate asked me if i had to grow up as a wizard or Jedi, what would i choose? oh man. Toughest question of my life. The ability to travel to different galax­ies on a whim and have the Force within me would be amazing, but so would the ability to perform magic. when it came down to it, i had to stick to my upbringing. i’m not say­ing people who favor harry potter are better, but if it weren’t for those books, my life would be much differ­ent now. Those seven beloved books are what made me adore reading and the stories that lie within, be it a chemistry book, poetry book or fiction. it’s magic. 
Contact Megan Uekert at muekert01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL 


in may, about 2,000 undergraduate students will process into notre dame stadium and receive their diplomas. a handful of others — leaders in their fields and communities — will receive honorary degrees alongside them. 
bill cosby was one of 12 individuals awarded an honorary degree at the university’s commencement ceremony almost 26 years ago. The comedian and actor has received nearly 60 honor­ary degrees throughout his career. 
however, since several dozen allegations of sexual assault arose beginning in late 2014 and the subsequent release of a deposition in which cosby admitted to drugging women prior to having sex with them, more than a third of the institutions that chose to honor cosby have rescinded his degrees. 
several universities notre dame considers its peers, including brown university, boston university and catholic universities Fordham and marquette, have rescinded cosby’s degree. 
notre dame has not and has said it will not rescind cosby’s honorary degree. 
“as it does with all candidates for honorary degrees, notre dame weighed carefully the information in the public record on bill cosby before he was accorded the honor 25 years ago,” university vice president for media relations paul browne said in an email to The observer. “had the kind of deeply disturbing allegations surfaced then that that have been made since, notre dame wouldn’t have considered awarding the degree. however, it is not the practice of the university to rescind an honorary degree previously awarded to individuals for achievements recognized at those times and, in the absence of criteria applicable retroac­tively to all, we have no plans to do so now in his case alone.” 
university president emeritus Fr. edward “monk” malloy was at the helm of the university when cosby received his honor­ary degree in 1990. in an email to The observer this past fall, malloy said, “all honorary degrees are awarded in light of the information available at the time. bill cosby was honored on such grounds. i have no comment beyond that.” 
as an editorial board, we could not reach a consensus as to whether the university should rescind the degree — and if so, whether it should act now or in the future. 
however, we all find the lack of any sort of public discussion on the topic troubling. 
student senate formed a subcommittee wednesday night to address and debate the situation, and prior to that, junior grace watkins and alumnus alex caton submitted a letter to the editor calling for the university to rescind the degree. 
aside from that, however, public student and administration engagement with the issue has been extremely limited. while the university administration has remained largely silent outside of formal statements, so too has the student body failed to take ac­tion and demand a voice in this discussion. 
There should be a discussion. in our experience, this is an issue people care about, even if they have not been vocal about it. That’s not to say there’s a right or wrong answer. clearly there are well-reasoned arguments to be made on both sides of the issue, but we have to talk about it. we have to acknowledge our ties to a person from whom our peer institutions have chosen to disas­sociate, and we have to ask ourselves whether we should be doing the same. 
The answer may be no, but it does not suffice to repeat over and over again that, because we have not done something before, we will never do it in the future. This university has gone against precedent before and certainly will again. up until 1972, notre dame had no precedent for admitting women. 
This debate will be uncomfortable. it will require a discussion of what an honorary degree means and to what extent we hold our honorary degree recipients accountable for information that becomes available retroactively. it will require us to examine to what moral standard we hold those degree recipients, because by his own admission, cosby has engaged in behaviors that would have almost certainly led to his permanent dismissal were he a student. 
as an intellectual community and a catholic one, we have an obligation to talk about what makes us uncomfortable. more than 1,000 individuals hold honorary degrees from the university. revoking bill cosby’s honorary degree makes every single one of those degrees vulnerable to revocation. 
setting the precedent of revoking degrees based on retrospec­tive morality would open up the discussion of what kinds of mor­al transgressions are acceptable for honorary degree recipients and what kinds of moral transgressions are not. 
we implore the university administration and students to allow the entire notre dame community — students, adminis­trators, faculty, staff, alumni and all other members — to engage on where we go next, on whether or not we want to associate ourselves with bill cosby and whether now is the time to mean­ingfully set precedent or follow it. 
other schools, when grappling with the issue of whether or not to revoke cosby’s honorary degree, have fostered open dialogue and debate with great success. george washington university initially refused to rescind cosby’s degree, citing precedent reasons almost identical to notre dame’s. however, after the university’s president, steven knapp, continued to discuss the is­sue with students and colleagues, he decided george washington would revoke cosby’s degree. 
perhaps the notre dame discussion would follow a similar course, and perhaps it wouldn’t. we will never know though, un­less we have this discussion and do so in a thoughtful, respectful way. 
For our part, we’re having the discussion. we debated the issue, and we’re asking you to do the same. if need be, we’re more than happy to be the forum through which the debate beings. we wel­come any letters to the editor on the topic. 
if we are to create any meaningful debate of this issue, we must demand a voice in the discussion. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

never a christian nation 
in a viewpoint column, “Threat to our religious roots,” eddie damstra claims every american president since Thomas Jefferson has been a christian, abraham lincoln expressed faith in the christian scriptures and electing a non-religious president would damage the essence of america, although, he generously concedes, “the election of a non-religious president would not destroy america.” 
setting aside the conveniently fact-free nature of mr. damstra’s article, i would like to consider its primary implication: what if, throughout history, america elected only christian presidents? we would likely lose James monroe and george washington, whose minister, when asked of the first president’s religious affili­ation, replied: “washington was a deist!” 
Thomas Jefferson, whom mr. damstra erroneously described as an unorthodox christian, openly rejected not only the Trinity, but also the miracles of the new Testament, the resurrection of the body and, most importantly, the divinity of Jesus. if the author of the declaration of independence was a christian, he was indeed unorthodox, so unorthodox that he professed deistic beliefs. 
last, but certainly not least, abraham lincoln most closely re­sembled a deist or, dare i say it, potentially an agnostic. lincoln’s biographer, as well as his closest friends, deny that lincoln had any christian faith. by mr. damstra’s standards, lincoln’s confederate counterpart, Jefferson davis — who cited verses from the new and old Testaments to confirm divine support for slavery — would more closely fit with “the essence of america.” 
damstra also mistakenly claims america was founded on Judeo-christian principles. if support for democracy and the freedoms enshrined in the bill of rights exists within the bible, it is certainly well-hidden. in fact, muhammad — yes, that muhammad — drafted the first written constitution in world history to endorse freedom of religious belief and practice, though it fell short in guaranteeing freedom for non-believers. The secular philosophers of the enlightenment, not the writings of augustine and calvin, inspired our nation’s founders. in short, americans are mostly christian, but the united states never has been a christian nation, and, pardon the phrase, i pray it never will become one. 
sincerely, an indignant non-believer, 
Pat Wilson 
freshman Feb. 11 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
whose fault is it? 
April Feng 
story Time 

it was a sunny afternoon in washington d.c., and i was at my favorite starbucks, holding a cup of hot chocolate with extra whipped cream. it was a busy day for the café shop. every seat was occupied. as i looked for my favorite spot — the table in the corner next to the window with the street view — i spotted her. 
she was sitting in my favorite spot, quietly eating a tiny box of expired biscuits that were still soggy from the rain the day before. she was wearing a washed hoodie that was way too loose to stop the January freeze. beside her, there was a used backpack that she guarded carefully by wrap­ping it around both her feet. she looked confused, tired and profoundly sad. she was homeless. 
i approached her with a friendly smile and asked if i could join her at the table. in silence, she removed her belongings from the chair opposite to her. as i was sit­ting down, she suddenly said, “you know, i was thinking, maybe with this temperature, i can get through the night without going back to the shelter.” with that, our conversa­tion began. 
Ten years ago, she divorced her husband and had ev­erything taken away from her: jewelry, furniture, family, a roof, everything. in the same year, she was diagnosed with brittle bone disease, a condition that results in fragile bones that break easily. The disease shut the door to em­ployment in front of her. since then, she had been sleeping in the shelter. The guards in the shelter did not like her. They said her backpack, which contained all her belong­ings, would take up too much space and must be left out­side. They once refused to let her enter the shelter and shut her out in the cold, simply because she was five minutes late for the 10 p.m. bedtime. 
“The shelter gives you a bed, but the price for that is your dignity,” she said and looked me straight in the eye. “my biggest dream now is to have my own apartment again. every day i pray to the lord, ask him to help me, but i guess my dream would never come true, at least not in this life.” 
she also lost her family forever since she became home­less. The last time she got access to a computer in a public library, she sent her daughter a message saying she loved her very much. her daughter replied within seconds asking if she was on drugs. it was humiliating, she told me. since then, she never used Facebook. when she registered for the shelter, they asked her to provide an emergency contact, and she simply could not think of any. 
“being homeless is the worst thing that can ever happen to you. i’m not even worth having an emergency contact. nobody cares if i die tomorrow.” Tears ran down her cheek. she covered her face with both hands. 
That was an intense moment. her comment about an emergency contact deeply resonated with my own experi­ence. i understand her pain, though only to a very limited amount. every time i was asked to provide an emergency contact, i hesitated. my parents are in china, and i doubt they would pick up a phone call in the middle of the night from a strange u.s. number. even if they did, it would be very difficult for them to hop on a 14-hour flight and be with me when i need them the most. overwhelmed by a mixture of empathy, pity and sadness, i asked if she wanted to have my phone number — an offer i regretted immensely 30 minutes after, as i escaped from her, walk­ing away from the starbucks as fast as i could, deeply be­wildered and terrified. 
out of curiosity, i asked her to tell me her life story, and she did. 
she was a gymnastic child star. she had perfect balance on the beam and was artistically expressive in floor exer­cise. her talent and hard work won her a spot in a profes­sional gymnastic school, a place she dearly loved, until one day “that man” appeared. according to her, he would be there every day around the corner, waiting for her to finish morning practice. Together they would drive across the city to his place, where he would rape her and then drive her back to the school, just in time for her parents to pick her up. 
“do you know what hypnosis is?” she asked me as she was taking a break from recounting the story. 
“yeah, but only a little bit.” i answered with hesitation. For the first time since our encounter, a slight sense of dan­ger shadowed my heart. 
“he hypnotized me,” she said. “when you are hypno­tized, you have no control over your consciousness. you would do whatever he asks you to do. For example, he would tell you to kill somebody, and you would not even hesitate.” she stared at me with a strange smile. 
my heart started to beat faster and faster. i bit my lips and tried to hide my trembling hands under the table. she is a human being whose stories deserve to be heard. i forced myself to repeat that sentence over and over. 
but then her story made it impossible for me to maintain my coolness. all of a sudden, i found myself surrounded by terror as she went on. The man … a long drive from the school … the attic … the six-year-old girl who was her friend … the gun … her hand … a man’s voice … “make your choice!” … crying … a girl’s shriek … more crying … “don’t know where i am” … darkness. 
i was petrified in my seat, shaking uncontrollably and feeling physically sick in the stomach. i stared at her face, trying to decide if she was hypnotized at that moment. i could not help but glancing at her backpack, trying to see if there was a gun inside. i looked around the second floor of the starbucks, trying to locate the nearest staircase to es­cape. it was a story i wished i had never listened to. all my empathy, my concern, my kindness toward her was gone. The only thing i knew at that moment was that i needed to get away from her, as quickly as possible and as far as possible. 
as she stopped to take a breath, i quickly made up the excuse that i had to go to work and started gathering my stuff. before i left, i asked her if she knew the name of “the man.” she shook her head and said she did not dare to tell me. with that, i stumbled downstairs and ran out of the starbucks at full speed. 
before i turned the street corner, i looked up to the win­dow beside which she and i had been sitting. and there she was, on my favorite seat, quietly eating a tiny box of expired biscuits, enjoying the first sunny day in the week. she looked absolutely normal, a homeless person. standing in the sun, i suddenly recalled her comment on dignity and separation, and i started to feel ashamed of myself for abandoning her as everyone else did. it was not her fault she became homeless. life took her there. however, it was also not my fault to run away, since my fears were real. Then whose fault is it? 
i am still struggling with that question and will struggle with it for a long time. 
Author’s Note: This is an honest account of my encounter with a homeless woman in a random Starbucks in Washington. The story is for reflection and self-scrutiny only. 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior double-majoring in political science and economics. April was born and raised in Beijing and is currently studying “abroad” in Washington D.C., taking classes and interning with CBS News. April welcomes all comments and complaints at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR: IMMIGRATION SERIES 
Pro-immigrant life? 
as catholics, we can no longer stand by, passively allowing hundreds of vulnerable individuals to die every year on the u.s.-méxico border because we are neither informed nor motivated enough to change a deadly and ineffective border policy. 
by following this week’s viewpoint letters, you have been exposed to migrants’ experiences, stories of family separation and the deadly consequences of the u.s.’s current border policy. wrapping up immigra­tion week, this letter addresses how we — individually and as a catholic community — should address the issue of immigration from a pro-life perspective. 
speaking to congress last september, pope Francis charged public officials to defend life at all stages, including helping migrants across the world. while pro-life is often misrepresented as only pertaining to the lives of the unborn, caring for and supporting our vulnerable migrant brothers and sisters is essential to a pro-life ideology: defending the lives of all humans from conception to natural death. yesterday’s let­ter discussed how the “funneling effect” has caused thousands of attempted border-crossing deaths in the Tucson sector alone. while some see death as tragic but necessary for border security, the funneling ef­fect doesn’t deter migrant crossings but rather pushes desperate and vulnerable individuals into dangerous terrain to die of dehydration. 
while the simple solution to this staggering death rate is to provide basic humanitarian aid to those crossing the border, Fr. bill remmel, former priest of most holy Trinity, informed us that catholic churches along the border have generally been bystanders rath­er than active participants in giving this life-saving aid. afraid to polarize, parishes have disregarded christ’s call to protect human life. This is unaccept­able. it doesn’t matter whether you support open borders or isolationism, we as catholics cannot ignore those who are dying on our doorstep because we are too divided politically to provide water to dehydrated individuals. Their dignity cannot go unnoticed any longer. The pro-life perspective demands all humans have an equal right to the necessities of life, irrespec­tive of country of origin. our society should meet the needs of the most vulnerable, whether it be the un­born or undocumented migrants. 
in conclusion, we would like to echo dr. martin luther king Jr.’s words from “letter from a birmingham Jail.” addressing non-engaged religious leaders who considered his work “unwise and un­timely,” dr. king reminds us that amidst oppression, there are far too many good-hearted, caring people that stand by allowing injustice to occur. Just as dr. king could not sit by idly in georgia while horrific injustices occurred in alabama, we must act because “injustice anywhere is a threat to justice every­where,” for “whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.” 
This is not an easy task. standing up for migrants will cause tension. people will disagree with you. but as a catholic community, we cannot shy away from difficult subjects, because fighting for the rights of the oppressed is not a gentle suggestion — it is a moral imperative. our charge to you: learn about what’s going on along the u.s.-méxico border and join the fight to end the loss of life. bring the message back to your home churches. whether you live in arizona or maine, encourage family and friends to support hu­manitarian efforts in the desert through groups like no more deaths and samaritans, to speak out against the ineffective and lethal “funneling effect,” to mobi­lize to stop the deportation of families and to rally for the new sanctuary movement, always remembering, “we judge ourselves as a community of faith by how we treat the most vulnerable among us” (usccb, 28). 
Elaine Schmidt 
junior 
Owen Smith 
senior Feb. 18 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 

hollywood. it’s a commercial ma­chine, one reliant on tentpole mega-movies that often stick to established narrative conventions and plumb the depths of nostalgia in order to appease a mass audience — anything for a buck. of course, that’s not necessarily a bad thing, and no critic worth his salt would dismiss a movie just because of its scope or commercial appeal. nevertheless, it is impossible to understand contemporary hollywood without acknowledging the primacy of the blockbuster. 
That’s why i’m so surprised “mission: impossible — rogue nation” failed to net a single oscar nomination last month. okay, maybe i’m not entirely sur­prised, but isn’t the snubbing of movies like “rogue nation” a fascinating occur­rence? if the oscars are a glorified party where industry insiders can pat them­selves on the back (hint: they are), then why don’t they celebrate good movies that also embody industry imperatives in addition to the middlebrow “prestige pictures” that exist closer to the fringes of hollywood? 
This year has been a step in that di­rection; the academy was right to honor crowd-pleasers like “mad max: Fury road” and “The martian.” but while those movies broke new ground, “rogue nation” embraced much of what is of­ten criticized about contemporary hollywood — it was a derivative and for­mulaic sequel. it just so happened to also be ludicrously good. 
however, a careful examination of the “mission: impossible” franchise sug­gests that last statement is imprecise. “rogue nation” did not stumble upon greatness through chance or fate; rather, it expanded on a dynamic blueprint that was developed piece by piece, changing 
— 
at times slightly, at others drastically 

— 
from movie to movie over a 20-year span. we critics typically hope a movie feels organic, alive or even messy, but the beauty of the “mission: impossible” mov­ies is that they prove calculated thrills are nevertheless just that — thrilling. 


consider the directors who have taken us through each iteration of “mission: impossible.” each delivered a movie informed by different epochs of the ac­tion and thriller genres. in being deriva­tive, the “mission: impossible” movies remind us of what we love about those genres — in their variety they are never quite repetitive, never a bore. The five “mission: impossible” movies may not be capital-“o” original, but that is a small quibble when they function as an entertaining film school for lay people. 
brian de palma’s 1996 “original” (based on the original 1960s television series) was a moody, if at times muddled, affair. replete with dutch tilts and clutch stunts, “mission: impossible” was equal parts psychological thriller and action flick — it was hitchcock-lite. John woo’s sequel spliced the dna of the original with that of hong kong action movies. when woo’s heightened style verged on expressionism — like when two speed­ing cars locked together in a slow-mo­tion pirouette of a crash — you almost forgot you were watching a blockbuster, let alone one starring the world’s biggest movie star. with “mission: impossible iii,” J. J. abrams brought “mission” into the “bourne” era, foregrounding tech­niques such as the shaky-camera pho­tography and quick editing that were de rigueur for action flicks throughout the 2000s. 
The fourth “mission,” brad bird’s “ghost protocol,” was — pardon the cliché — a game-changer. in an era of blockbusters beholden to complexity — of narrative, of character — bird crafted a tentpole movie that was unabashedly simple. 
admittedly, the best of the recent complex blockbusters surpassed “ghost protocol” not only in narrative and the­matic ambition, but also in achievement: The chaotic narrative sprawl of “The dark knight” and heath ledger’s iconic turn as the Joker tapped into the public’s anxiety over terrorism, and “skyfall” ex­amined the evolution of terrorism in the information age through the vehicle of James bond’s origin story. 
but in bringing its franchise into a kind of stasis, bird’s movie succeeded where “The dark knight” and “skyfall” failed — “ghost protocol” set a high bar for its sequel but not one that was impossibly high. christopher nolan could never have replicated, let alone topped, the frenetic heights of “The dark knight.” yet the film’s popularity forced him to attempt just that in “The dark knight rises,” rather than take the tril­ogy in a new direction. it shows: “rises” is a mess. its bloated complexity verged on self-parody, and it thus lost the nu­ance and sense of reality that elevated “The dark knight” from popcorn flick to social commentary. similar problems plagued “spectre,” which was a continu­ation of the acclaimed “skyfall” when it should have been a departure; audiences could only take so much brooding, intro­spective bond. 
in “ghost protocol,” bird was not concerned with plumbing the depths of his characters or commenting on an ever-changing social climate. The movie never evoked the hitchcockian paranoia of the original — or of actual hitchcock movies, for that matter — and that was the point. what bird did borrow from hitchcock was structure: “ghost protocol,” despite its airy tone, was in many ways a spiritual successor to alfred hitchcock’s “north by northwest.” each uses a thinly plotted structure to con­struct stunning action set pieces, and each is preposterously enjoyable. 
but “north by northwest,” replete with political overtones, was too complex for bird to remake note-for-note. working in the late 1950s, hitchcock drew on cold war anxieties to create an antagonist that was relevant to the contemporary audience. viewers today, decades re­moved from the red scare, might feel the villain in hitchcock’s film is irrelevant or even forgettable. yet even for modern au­diences, “north by northwest” is effort­lessly re-watchable, a fact that speaks to the greatness of the film’s structure. The string of set pieces sprinkled with bits of melodrama is so thrilling that elements often thought essential — a memorable villain, a coherent plot — become dis­posable niceties. 

when “ghost protocol” was released in 2011, the threat of nuclear war was about as far-fetched as the old notion that duck­ing for cover could save one from such a war. nonetheless, bird opted to lift the plot — nondescript foreign agents and an atomic threat — directly from “north by northwest.” That the threat in “ghost protocol” was without the context that accompanied “north by northwest” was bird’s way of forcing it out of our memo­ry. The passage of time has shifted focus on hitchcock’s film from its politics to its mechanics; bird cut to the chase, offer­ing nothing but mechanics. 
in doing so, bird altered the paradigm for the “mission: impossible” franchise. action flicks are so often defined by their villains — there is an entire wikipedia page devoted to bond villains. indeed, “mission: impossible iii” is best re­membered as a vehicle for the late, great philip seymour hoffman as ultra-baddie owen davian. rather than fall into the same trap christopher nolan did by at­tempting to elevate bane to the level of ledger’s Joker, bird didn’t even try to give “ghost protocol” a memorable vil­lain. whereas “mission: impossible iii” was ethan hunt vs. owen davian via a string of fabulous stunts on bridges and buildings, “ghost protocol” was simply hunt vs. the bridges and buildings. it was “mission” at its most elemental: Tom cruise and stunts. 
“ghost protocol” was so successful that those raw elements became the formula from which the next installment, “rogue nation,” was crafted. indeed, “rogue nation” barely deviates from the formu­la. but why should it have? Topping the previous installment’s action set pieces was as easy as topping its iconic villain would have been difficult: all the film­makers had to do was find a taller build­ing to scale, a faster car to crash, a more elaborate safe to hack. “rogue nation” is every bit as good as “ghost protocol” for the same reason “north by northwest” is re-watchable after all these years — it’s all thrills. 
or not quite. writing for the boston globe, wesley morris argued cruise’s psychology — his masochism and his ego, each feeding off the other — is what made the stunts in “ghost protocol” so great. i’m inclined to agree with morris; there’s something positively spellbind­ing about watching the man compul­sively dart from one stunt to the next, seemingly without motive other than exertion for exertion’s sake. 
and you still get some of that in “rogue nation,” but this time out there’s some­thing more. yes, there’s the ego, the masochism, the coolness — watching all three coalesce as cruise clings to the side of an airplane, face flapping in the wind, you think he’s man-as-special ef­fect. but watching his conviction and sincerity during a scene in a train station (not on top of a moving train, mind you), when he lets himself be seduced, if only for a moment, by the charm of a woman who is clearly out of his league — that is to say, watching the world’s biggest mov­ie star become vulnerable — you realize that’s merely what he wants you to see. watching these quiet moments, you un­derstand the je ne sais quoi cruise brings to the proceedings has less to do with his disregard for the limitations of the hu­man body than it does with the simple fact that he can just plain act. 
cruise doesn’t elevate “rogue nation” above the rest of the franchise by him­self though. in fact, the best part about “rogue nation” is that seductress from the train station. as ilsa Faust, the au­burn-haired rebecca Ferguson is prac­tically a bottle of peroxide away from being fit to star in a hitchcock movie. she’s icy, calculating and manipulative 
— the best femme fatale to come from a mainstream american movie in years. 
Ferguson’s performance is as physical as it is psychological; watching her shed her heels before a brawl or slice through an adversary’s throat with a knife, you realize she totally kicks butt. but she knows when to save someone too, and does so on several occasions. The some­one in question? Tom cruise’s. of “rogue nation’s” many triumphs, humanizing Tom may be the most enjoyable, and it is certainly the most important. cruise is 53 years old now, and convincing the audience he has lost a step — while assuring us he is still supremely cool — is director christopher mcQuarrie’s major contribution to the franchise. like bird’s efforts, mcQuarrie’s ensure the repeat­able excellence of the franchise by con­trolling the audience’s expectations in a manner that never feels manipulative. rather, it’s outrageously fun. 
That’s really what every studio in the blockbuster game is after — repeat­able excellence. over five films and two decades, the “mission: impossible” franchise has evolved into the perfect model of how to achieve that excellence. it’s proof the stringent demands of stu­dios — that sequels exist, that sequels embrace what was successful before — need not stifle quality or fun. so, of all the best picture nominees, i have just one question: as the culmination of one of hollywood’s best franchises, “rogue nation” saved the blockbuster — what did you all ever do? 
Contact Nick Laureano at                   nlaurean@nd.edu 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 

The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALI LOWERY 
scene writer 

in case you were wondering, con­vincing your single friends to go see a movie titled “pride and prejudice and Zombies” on valentine’s day takes a lit­tle more effort than you might expect. i was mostly met with a lot of blank stares, and my roommate even inquired if it was a movie that was currently play­ing in theaters, obviously shocked that anyone could get real hollywood fund­ing for something that sounded much more like bad fan fiction than an actual screenplay. 
Jokes aside, “pride and prejudice and Zombies” actually is essentially glo­rified fan fiction. originally a book, “pride and prejudice and Zombies” was authored by Jane austen and seth grahme-smith, the latter of whom has made a career out of turning classic tales of love and adventure into sci-fi mashups that somehow create best-sell­ers, despite all odds (“abraham lincoln, vampire hunter” and “p&p&Z,” just to name a couple). honing in the largely untapped but obviously existent over­lapping “pride and prejudice” and zombie apocalypse fandoms, “pride and prejudice and Zombies” topped out at the no. 3 spot on the “new york Times” best-seller list and has since ob­viously gained enough hype to squeeze a blockbuster film out of zombie decay. 
i, a 21-year-old female who happens to spend a lot of her free time watch­ing “The walking dead” and re-reading the works of Jane austen on her kindle, am a lucky part of the niche audience the film’s producers were hoping would raise fan-girl excitement about such an unlikely adaptation. having watched the trailer and cast interviews months prior, i worried the film would spend too much time taking itself seriously and not enough acknowledging the inherent absurdity of such a premise. however, sitting in the theatre with jumbo pop­corn, Twizzlers and two loyal friends whom i managed to drag with me, i found my fears quickly settled and my friends quick converts. while “pride and prejudice and Zombies” did intertwine certain tones of seriousness through the violence and gore, at its core, the film felt light, in no way attempting to be the next great action romance but charm­ingly accepting itself as the pure enter­tainment it turned out to be. 

austen purists, many of whom con­sider “pride and prejudice” to be the holy grail of early 19th century ro­mance, find the film blasphemous. with numerous changes to the original plot, the absence of original characters and the whole flesh-eating undead thing, the movie is not what you would call “faithful” to Jane and her loyal follow­ers. despite having seen the life-chang­ing 1995 bbc miniseries adaptation of “p&p” enough times to be considered obsessed, i would in no way identify as a purist, but instead as someone who is very familiar with the source material. when sitting down to watch a “pride and prejudice” adaptation, especially one that throws a few zombies in, i’ve found i’m not looking for a page-by­page translation. “p&p&Z” gives austen fans another way to enjoy our favor­ite love story, the themes of romance and heroism remaining, while adding to the excitement of the story through a few scares and well-executed action sequences. 
even the novel’s central character, elizabeth bennet, considered by many to be one of the greatest heroines of all time, is given a bit of a makeover. already an anachronistic feminist with­in austen’s original tale, the lizzie we see on screen in “p&p&Z” is even more independent, making it very clear she is in no need of a man to marry or to kill zombies for her. 
“pride and prejudice and Zombies” is a fun, entertaining spin on classic ro­mance that doesn’t require being a die-hard fan of Jane austen to be enjoyed. Taken for what it is — entertainment at its most basic and brainless — “p&p&Z” is sure to be an hour and 40 minutes that won’t kill you. 
Contact Ali Lowery at                            alowery1@nd.edu 

WEEKEND AT A GLAN CE 
FRIDAY 


oscar best picture nominee “brooklyn,” adapted from colm Tóibín’s 2009 novel of the same name, beautifully captures the story of an irish immigrant’s journey to america and her complex relationships with her old and new homes. saoirse ronan shines as lead eilis lacey, and emory cohen will steal your heart as main love interest Tony Fiorello. 
SATURDAY 

What: “The Bear” and “Afterplay” When: 7:30 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing     Arts Center, Philbin Studio Theatre How Much: $7 for students, $15      for general admission, $12 for         seniors 
The department of Film, Television and Theatre presents a pair of comedic one-acts based on the plays of russian playwright anton chekov. “The bear” and “afterplay” touts an irish spin on chekov’s farcically vaudevillian characters. 

SUNDAY 

What: Arabian Nights: Volume 3 
— “The Enchanted One” When: 3 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing     Arts Center, Browning Cinema How Much: $4 for students, $7 for      general admission, $5 for seniors 
The debartolo performing arts center’s showing of portuguese director miguel gomes’s 2015 cannes Film Festival standout triptych “arabian nights” closes out with a showing of “The enchanted one,” the third volume of the political cinematic tapestry. 
WEEKLY WATCH 

skip classes on monday and watch the classic 80s hooky adventure “Ferris bueller’s day off” with senior scene writer miko malabute. Then grab the paper for miko’s thoughts on the classic John hughes comedy. 
JANICE CHUNG | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: good things will come your way if you are patient and let your intuition lead the way. don’t be afraid to be different or to share your vision with others. Think outside the box and use your wit and charm to attract positive attention and get the help you need to follow through with your plans. love others unconditionally and be accepting and kind. your numbers are 5, 17, 21, 24, 31, 38, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): change can be good if you think things through instead of jumping from one place to another without a plan. you will be granted favors and be given options if you ask. romance and personal improvements should be a priority. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Try to get along with your peers to avoid a problem at work. refrain from making personal changes to the way you look or what you believe in. wait until you are certain about what you want to do before taking action. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): check out new job opportunities. consider how your skills and talents can fit into the current economic trends and market yourself accordingly. showing affection and charm will win favors from someone you love. Travel plans should be made. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): revisit the past and document the things you want to remember. make a change at home that will give you more space or result in more people or pets living with you. don’t be afraid to do things differently. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you could use a change. whether you decide to go on sabbatical or just a short vacation, it will do you good. you need time to yourself in order to make a wise choice about your future prospects. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): get out and have some fun. Take part in events that you are interested in and make a difference. good fortune will arise through the people you meet. express your emotions and take positive action. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): make plans. This is not the time to sit around waiting for people and things to come to you. use your charm and intelligence to get ahead. network and you will make an impression that will lead to greater confidence and better partnerships. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel, attend an exhibit or sign up for a self-awareness course, and you will meet unusual people and discover alternative ways to put your talents to good use. don’t miss out because someone is unwilling to take part. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): make a choice not to overspend or indulge. put your money in a safe place and refuse to let anyone talk you into doing something foolish. romance is highlighted, but shouldn’t put you in debt. you can’t buy love.    

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): do whatever it takes to impress someone who can help you change your financial or legal status. a little extra thought regarding how you can be more entertaining will help you attract promising job offers. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a break in order to figure out how you want to move forward. life changes have sent you into a tailspin, and taking time to assess, regroup and make wise choices will be in your best interest. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you’ll be forced to reevaluate your past and present in order to build a brighter future. don’t be afraid to start over. new beginning may be difficult, but can also be rejuvenating. clear the way to freedom and good fortune. 

Birthday Baby: you are spontaneous, empathetic and mindful. you are persuasive and caring. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Premier League deserves attention 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 
nothing’s happening. 
it’s been almost two weeks since the super bowl, and we’re all tired of talking about cam newton’s press confer­ence. it’s February, which means the ncaa tournament is still a month away, while we’re two months away from mlb opening day and the nhl and nba playoffs. 
unless you pull for a college basketball team on the bubble or an nba or nhl squad that’s entrenched in a playoff battle, you’re probably feeling a little empty as a sports fan as we hit the middle of February. and if you only follow what’s going on in the united states, you’re probably justified. 
but that’s where you’re mis­taken: you’re wrong to focus only on what’s going on state­side. completely wrong. 
Take a look across the pond at what’s termed by most to be the “greatest league in the world” when it comes to soccer — the english premier league. Typically, by February, the title race in england is down to, say, two clubs — if there’s even a contest at all. and when the dust settles, it’s typically manchester united, manchester city or chelsea that has the chance to take home the title two-thirds of the way through the season. 
For those of us crazy enough to wake up at the crack of dawn on saturday and sunday mornings, however, we’ve been treated to what’s looking like an incredible season. 
chelsea, last season’s cham­pions, sit in 12th place in the 20-team league, 20 points back of the title with no tan­gible chance of doing much more than finishing in the top half of the table at season’s end. manchester united sit fifth, a slightly better posi­tion, but still lie 12 points 
— that’s four wins — behind the league leaders with only 12 games to play. Their chase is for fourth place and a champions league berth, not the league title. 
and manchester city had a chance to firmly entrench itself in the title race yester­day — if it could’ve gotten a result. but the citizens blew their chance at home and sit six points back with 12 games to play. They’re not out of it, but things aren’t looking good in the blue half of manchester. 
That leaves three contend­ers separated by two points, one of whom is likely to win the crown, that most thought the crown was beyond — or well beyond — this season: arsenal, Tottenham hotspur and leicester city. 
arsenal sit third and, amongst the clubs at the top of the table, they’re the most fitting to be there. mesut Özil is the best player on a side that’s used to being in the top four — the gunners have qualified for the champions league via a top-four spot for the last 18 seasons. and while arsenal is one of the most storied clubs in english soccer, it’s been a while since the gunners’ last true title push eight seasons ago, their fourth-place finish two sea­sons ago non-withstanding. i’d be shocked if that changes. arsenal’s title drought is just 12 seasons; not too long, but long enough that it would be a little refreshing to see arsène wenger lift the premier league trophy once again. 
Then there’s spurs, arsenal’s eternal north london rival. The two meet march 5 in what is going to be the most anticipated showdown of the year. if Tottenham come out on top, it could be the result that punches their ticket to the club’s first english top­flight league win since 1961. spurs have just one other title 
— in 1951 — and boast a club that’s got harry kane and a lot of really nice young play­ers. if you’d have asked me in august what i thought of their chances, i would’ve told you a top-four finish was a solid goal for a young side. but they’ve perhaps hit their peak well before schedule, and they’re reaping the benefits. 
of course, we haven’t gotten to league-leading leicester city, who are gun­ning for their first title ... ever. conventional wisdom said the Foxes needed to be concerned about relegation in august, not a league title, and conven­tional wisdom would’ve been right. it’s a squad chock full of players purchased for small transfer fees and led by Jamie vardy, a player who played in england’s fifth tier just a few years ago. in a league domi­nated by money and greed, leicester might just be the best example of a cinderella in club soccer. 
so sure, there’s nothing im­portant going on in the united states’s sports scene right now. 
but that doesn’t mean there’s not sports drama to be found. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | kenTucky 80, Tennessee 70 
murray leads wildcats to fourth consecutive win 
Associated Press 

leXingTon, ky. — Jamal murray scored 28 points, derek willis made seven 3-pointers for a career-high 25 and no. 14 kentucky beat Tennessee 80-70 on Thursday night for its fourth straight victory. 
sixteen days after blow­ing a 21-point lead in an 84-77 loss at Tennessee, the wildcats (20-6, 10-3 southeastern conference) held their ground this time against the volunteers. kentucky stretched a six-point halftime lead to as many as 22 for another dou­ble-digit win and has won by an average margin of 22.5 points during its streak. 
murray’s perimeter shoot­ing helped set the tone be­fore willis got hot to make five from behind the arc in the second half. 
armani moore scored 21 points and kevin punter Jr. added 19 for Tennessee (12-14, 5-8 sec), which got within 10 points in the final minute but really wasn’t that close in losing for the third time in four games since up­setting kentucky. 
Tyler ulis added 11 points and nine assists for kentucky, which shot 26 of 62 overall (42 percent) but made 11 of 24 from long range (46 percent). 
more importantly, the wildcats took control — for now— of the sec with a one-game lead over lsu. There’s still plenty of time for up­heaval with plenty of teams within striking distance of the top spot, but kentucky did what it had to do for one night at least. 
The volunteers shot just 38 percent and were out-rebounded 45-39 but made things interesting against the wildcats down the stretch. but kentucky had a lead and made sure it stuck in the rematch. 
kentucky’s challenge this time was getting the lead as it scored the opening bas­ket but didn’t regain it until murray’s 3-pointer nearly 9 minutes later for an 11-9 advantage. Tennessee’s ath­leticism had something to do with that as much as the wildcats’ shaky shooting, but the game remained close because the vols stumbled through a 1-for-13 drought from the field. 
Though the wildcats shot 40 percent through 20 min­utes, murray’s basket helped put nervous fans at ease and started kentucky toward a 36-30 halftime lead. The freshman guard was 4 of 6 including two 3-pointers in the half and he got outside help from willis, who made two from behind the arc. 
willis’ biggest basket might have been a buzzer-beating putback after Tennessee got within four, giving kentucky a crack that it broke wide open in the second half from long range. The wildcats be­gan 5 of 6 from behind the arc and outscored Tennessee 18-6 over 3 1/2 minutes for a 54-36 lead that provided a cushion to withstand the vols’ late run. 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | souTh carolina 65, georiga 51 
gamecocks clinch sec title with home win 
Associated Press 

columbia, s.c. — a quick team photo around the southeastern conference trophy, a wave to the crowd and off to the locker room. no. 3 south carolina has much bigger mountains left to climb this season. 
Tiffany mitchell scored 19 points as the gamecocks wrapped up a third straight sec regular-season title with a 61-51 victory over georgia on Thursday night. its celebration was noth­ing like the first two, much more matter-of-fact and low key. 
“Two years ago, it was new to us and to everyone here at south carolina,” said mitchell, looking for her third straight sec player of the year honor. “but i think we’ve set a standard where we kind of accept what’s happened. 
“we’ve just got take this game,” she says, “and move on.” 
For south carolina (25-1, 13-0 sec), that means a try at a perfect regular season, a chance to join Tennessee’s 2011 team as the only ones to finish 16-0. after that comes a try at a second sec tournament title and then going back to the Final Four. 
mitchell said she knew south carolina coach dawn staley would bring a pow­erhouse to campus and is just happy to be part of the landmark run. 
The gamecocks clinched a share of the champion­ship last monday night with a 62-56 win at Tennessee. This win meant they would not have to share the crown as they did with the lady vols last year. 
“last year’s sharing re­ally got under our skin,” se­nior point guard khadijah sessions said. “we didn’t want to have that feeling.” 
not that it was easy. 
The lady bulldogs (19-7, 7-6) are the sec’s top de­fensive team and kept the high-scoring gamecocks on their heels most of the contest. 
georgia cut a 16-point deficit to 50-45 on marjorie butler’s basket with 2:24 re­maining. but mitchell an­swered with a jumper and the lady bulldogs could not respond. 
a’ja wilson had 16 points, nine rebounds and two blocks for the gamecocks. 
Tiaria griffin led georgia finished a point off her ca­reer high of 25 points. she also had eight rebounds. 
butler was the only other double-figure scorer for the lady bulldogs with 12 points as they saw their five-game winning streak snapped. 
sessions scored 12 points, including a 30-footer as time ran out in the second quarter. The senior point guard also had a career-best six steals. 
south carolina won its 25th straight sec game at home, a streak that goes back to the 2013 season. 
The gamecocks posed with the championship tro­phy at midcourt while fans chanted “s-e-c, s-e-c.” 
The game matched up the sec’s top scoring team in south carolina against its no. 1 defense in georgia. defense, on both sides, won out the first two quarters as neither team found an of­fensive rhythm. 
The lady bulldogs moved in front 11-10 on merritt hempe’s short jumper to start second quarter. Then georgia went ice cold, miss­ing 11 of its final 12 shots of the period to trail 27-13. 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


WOMEN’S TENNIS | noTre dame 6, purdue 1 MEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame cruise to road win over Purdue 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame defeated rival purdue, 6-1, on wednesday at schwartz Tennis center in west lafayette, indiana. 
The singles competition was highlighted with wins by senior Quinn gleason, sophomore allison miller, junior monica robinson, sophomore brooke broda and junior mary closs. at the no. 1 spot, gleason won the first set against purdue junior nicole robinson, 6-2, before dropping a close sec­ond set, 7-6 (4). she then won the third and decisive set, 6-3. robinson had a simi­lar match at no. 2 singles, as she won the first set, 7-5, and narrowly lost the second, 7-6 (2). she then won the third set, 6-1. 
broda lost her first set, 6-4, before winning the final two sets, 6-2, 6-3. miller and closs both won their singles matches in straight sets. The only singles loss for the irish was junior Jane Fennelly, who lost her match 6-4, 6-3. 
in doubles competition, the irish dominated all three matches. gleason and robinson won their match 6-1, while the duo of senior Julie vrabel and closs won their match 6-0. Fennelly and miller were winning their match 5-1 before it was abandoned. 
irish head coach Jay louderback said he was ex­cited about the win and the improvement of his team in doubles play. in five of its six previous matches, notre dame had dropped the dou­bles point. 
“a mid-week win on the road is always a good win,” louderback said. “we played exceptionally well in the dou­bles, which is what we have been putting a lot of practice time in to.” 
louderback said his team began to show improvement in doubles play in its pre­vious two matches against pittsburgh and michigan. 
“i felt like the two matches before purdue we have seen improvement and to play doubles that well against purdue shows our improve­ment,” louderback said. 
The irish will now prepare for a busy weekend schedule against quality competition. This saturday morning, the irish will play a nonconfer­ence game against indiana. Then the irish will play con­ference opponent louisville at 2 p.m. sunday. 
louderback said he wants to make sure his team paces itself during practice this 
Irish welcome UK, WMU 

week. 
“we are in a stretch of five matches in 10 days, so we have to make sure we don’t overdo practice time and make sure we are ready for match day,” louderback said. 
The hoosiers come into saturday’s matchup with a 6-1 record, while louisville sports a 6-2 mark. louderback said the indiana match will provide a great opportunity to see just how well his team’s doubles play has improved. 
“indiana always plays great doubles, so we will have an­other opportunity to see how much we have improved in that area,” louderback said. “i feel we have a great bunch of competitors, so we will be ready for both matches this weekend.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at         mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
Observer Staff Report 
on saturday, notre dame will look to remain unbeat­en at home when it hosts 
kentucky  and  western  
michigan  at  eck Tennis  
pavilion.  

The wildcats (6-2) are coming off of a 6-1 loss to no. 20 northwestern this past saturday, which dropped their record on the road this season to 1-2. however, the wildcats boast a top-25 singles play­er in sophomore william bushamuka. additionally, bushamuka and senior beck pennington are the nation’s no. 23 doubles team. 
The broncos (8-3), mean­while, enter the match ridding a four-game win­ing streak after beating chicago state and Ferris state on monday. They also hold a losing record away on the road, sitting at a mark of 2-3. 
The irish (5-4) have won their past three match­es decisively: 5-2 against indiana, 7-0 against ball state and 6-1 against rival michigan. Their home-away splits are drastic, as the irish are 5-0 at eck Tennis pavilion but winless in four matches away from its friendly confines. 
heading into the match­es, the biggest storyline for the irish in the past week has been irish head coach ryan sachire’s ad­justments of the doubles teams. The pairing of se­niors alex lawson and Quentin monaghan was ranked no. 6 in the na­tion, but sachire has split them up over the last four matches to pair them with younger players and spread the talent throughout the doubles lineup. lawson has been playing with ju­nior eddy covalschi as the irish’s top doubles team and have won all four of their matches together. on the other hand, monaghan was paired with freshman grayson broadus, and they have gone 2-1 together. 
The irish look to extend their home-winning streak to seven games when they host the wildcats and broncos saturday at eck Tennis pavilion. The match against kentucky is sched­uled to begin at 10 a.m., and it will be followed by the match against western michigan at 6 p.m. 



BECKI JEREN | The Observer 
Sophomore Brendon Kempin winds up for a serve during Notre Dame’s 7-0 win over Ball State at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | The observer 

SMC BASKETBALL 

Seniors look to finish careers on high note 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s will try to end its season on a high note when it takes to the road to face albion this saturday at 
3:30p.m. 
The belles (1-23, miaa 1-14) have one more chance to tack on a second win to their total in their final game of the year. This will also be the final game for the belles’ four seniors, three of whom are team captains. 
captains eleni shea, krista knapke, forwards, and maddie kohler, a guard, will all be graduating in the spring and represent three of the four leading scorers on the team. shea averages 
12.5 points per game to lead the belles, and knapke is close behind, having scored 281 points this season for an average of 11.7 points per game. kohler has scored 159 points this season, making her the team’s fourth-high­est scorer, and she has also helped the squad on defense, with 29 steals this year. The upcoming game against albion will also be the final one for senior guard sarah macius, who has averaged more than six points per game this year. 
albion (9-15, 5-10) is in the midst of a three-game los­ing streak. The britons av­erage 62.3 points per game, in comparison to the belles’ 
55.1. The britons are also leads saint mary’s in field goal percentage, 3-point percentage, assists per game and rebounds. The belles re­cently fell to albion on Jan. 20, 62-54. The belles strug­gled offensively against albion, and the team’s lead­ing scorer for the game, sophomore gabby diamond, who scored 12 points against the britons, is currently studying abroad. 
albion has a record of 1-9 at home, with its other eight wins coming from away games or games played at neutral sites. 
The belles will need to get off to a strong first half in order to take down the britons. Throughout the season, the belles have been able to make strong runs in the second half, outscoring their opponents in the third and fourth quarters on mul­tiple occasions. however, their slow starts have often left them with deficits too large to overcome. 
although the belles lost their final home game of the season last week against kalamazoo, they have the opportunity to grab another win and send their seniors off on a high note. 
The belles will go head-to-head with the britons in their final game of the sea­son at 3:30 p.m. at albion. 
paid adverTisemenT 






Hockey 
conTinued From page 16 
balanced team,” Jackson said. “i think the biggest question going into the year was how they were going to replace [former goaltender Jon] gillies, but they’ve certainly done that with [junior goalten­der nick] ellis, because he’s been a stalwart back there for them. They’ve got a great defense, a really good defense. and they have a lot of seniors. it’s a senior-lad­en team. That’s a big part of it, the experience of what they went through last year has certainly given them a lot of confidence, and they play that way.” 
The next two weekends offer significant challeng­es to the irish, as they will face both providence and no. 9 boston university, but Jackson focused on the success his team has found recently, going 8-1-0 in its last nine games. 
“i credit (our recent suc­cess) to the upperclassmen, to the seniors,” Jackson said. “They’ve done an ex­ceptional job of leading this team. Two-thirds of our lineup is sophomores and freshmen. They pro­vide enthusiasm because they’re young and excited, and they’re all still trying to sow their oats. so the up­perclassmen have to keep that in check a little bit. i give credit to the leader­ship. i think that they’ve done a good job of keeping guys in check when they need to and also getting guys going when they’re not.” 

sophomore center Jake evans, who had a goal and three assists against maine last saturday, also said he wanted to keep the focus on what notre dame has to do rather than worrying about what challenges providence will bring to the table. 
“we’re pretty comfort­able right now,” evans said. “i think things are going pretty well. we’ve gotta stay focused on our game plan and stick to our game and not let them dictate the play. i think the biggest thing for us is getting off to a good start. 
“we have a young team, obviously. and i think some of the freshmen and sophomores are picking it up and getting used to some of the games, especially with the road crowd getting in your head a little bit. but i think now we’re definitely developing as a team and sticking to the game plan, not letting the other team get a better start than us.” 
evans was one of eight irish players to score over the weekend against maine, and that depth has been key to the team’s success, he said. 
“we have such a skilled team where anyone can chip in on any night, which is probably the big­gest thing going forward,” evans said. 
The irish will attempt to keep their slim lead in the conference Friday night when they travel to schneider arena to take on the Friars. 
notre dame will then close out its regular season when it returns to compton Family ice arena for a two-game series against boston university (17-9-4, 10-5-3) the following weekend. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 



M Lax 
conTinued From page 16 
midfield who aren’t neces­sarily freshmen, but a couple sophomores — [midfielder] brandon collins played for us last year but was a defen­sive midfielder. [and mid­fielder] pierre byrne will get an opportunity to play, and i think a couple freshmen are gonna contribute. 
“but i think you know they are gonna take their lead from the older guys, the experienced guys on the field, and those are the guys were really looking to be the stalwarts of our effort this weekend.” 
Those ‘guys’ include seniors and recently-named cap­tains defender matt landis and attack matt kavanagh, along with junior midfield sergio perkovic. kavanagh and perkovic ranked first and third in points on the team in 2015, netting 27 and 34 goals, respectively. all three play­ers were selected to the pre­season all-acc team. 
georgetown also boasts a roster full of returning play­ers, including midfielders sophomore craig berge and junior peter conley and soph­omore goalie nick marrocco. 
like landis, kavanagh and perkovic in the acc, the three were named to the pre­season all-big east team. 
“They’ve got all their de­fensemen back and a terrific group of athletic midfielders in the middle of the field,” corrigan said. “i think that ground balls and those kind of athletic plays in the mid­dle of the field are going to be very important against a team like this.” 
and the hoyas have started to fine-tune the development of those players, corrigan said. 
“georgetown has gotten a lot better every year. in the last four years they’ve got­ten a new coach, and he’s starting to get his guys that he’s recruited. and they all buy into his system. They’re very well coached, very good athletes, good players. it’s definitely going to be a re­ally good test. we’re looking forward to playing them, but we know it’s going to be a challenge.” 
The irish and hoyas go head-to-head at the cobby county classic on saturday in atlanta. The contest is slated to begin at 11:30 a.m. 
Contact Kit Loughran at kloughr1@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | The observer 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
demetrius Jackson. 
“i think what really helps you, not only overall in the acc, [but on the road] is to have great guard play,” brey said. “and these last two sea­sons, we’ve been blessed with great guard play, and that helps you steal road wins.” 
in notre dame’s 71-66 win over the cardinals, Jackson and vasturia provided the irish with just that. Jackson scored a career-high 27 points, and vasturia added 20 of his own. 
brey also praised the physi­cal presence sophomore forward bonzie colson and senior forward Zach auguste have brought to the team. 
“it really starts in [auguste and colson’s] rebounding and how physical they’ve been in the paint,” brey said. “i think that’s helped them play bet­ter on the offensive end, and they’re attacking the basket on the other side, but i think it’s really started with how aggressive and how physical they are [rebounding] on both ends.” 


time. you want to keep them confident, you want to keep them hungry, and you want to keep them really healthy, as fresh as possible physically and mentally.” 
“we would be thrilled to get 
[a] road win in atlanta and inch our way to a 10th league [win] and then do our part and see what everybody else does.” 
notre dame is slated to tip off against georgia Tech at mccamish pavilion on saturday at 8 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
lot more aggressive offensive­ly tonight,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “we were looking for her, and we got some mismatches inside. and we were able to take ad­vantage of them. 
“she really had an offensive mindset, and she was 7-for­7 from the free-throw line, which we were very happy with.” 
of her 11 rebounds, Turner hauled down four offensive boards to lead all players. all told, the irish scored 10 sec­ond-chance points, compared to four for wake Forest. 
after their game with the yellow Jackets (14-12, 4-9 acc), the irish travel to wake Forest and Florida state before host­ing miami and north carolina state to end the season. as the final stretch approaches, brey said he has confidence in his nucleus to perform well in key 
Turner recorded 14 of her points and seven of her re­bounds in the first half, nearly matching the demon deacons on the boards, 9-7. her domi­nance inside was hardly sur­prising, mcgraw said, as the irish planned to feed her early and often against the nation’s 169th-ranked defense. 
“The high-low was working for her, the guards were look­ing for her, we ran a lot of plays specifically to get it into to her, and she did a really good job with them,” mcgraw said. 
Turner also recorded three blocks in the game, bringing her season total to 69. despite missing six games due to a shoulder injury, Turner ranks 19th in the nation in blocked moments. 
“we’ve kind of found a new level of mental and physical toughness, and with that con­fidence in the last week, you want to keep it moving for­ward,” brey said. “i think it’s a group that found itself re­cently, and it comes at a great 
shots and ninth in program history for blocked shots in a season. her average of 3.45 blocks per game would also set a program record. 
by the game’s midpoint, the irish were already up 41-22, and Turner played just nine minutes in the second half as mcgraw turned to her bench. irish reserves scored 42 points in the game, compared to just seven for the demon deacons. 
notre dame’s top scorer off the bench and second-leading scorer overall was freshman guard arike ogunbowale. mcgraw has praised ogunbowale repeatedly this season for her aggressive, hard-charging style of play, and she kept that up against wake Forest, committing two charging fouls and one other turnover but also putting up 16 points in just 23 minutes of play. 
“arike is playing very well off the bench. she’s fearless,” mcgraw said. “she’s been in­credibly efficient in the last six games. … she didn’t take a lot of shots but she scored a lot of points. she’s shooting the ball very well.” 
ogunbowale was 7-for-12 from the field and a perfect 2-for-2 from the free throw line Thursday. midway through the second quarter, she con­nected on four straight jump­ers to aid the irish in a 10-2 run that put them up 36-18. 
in the frontcourt, junior for­ward kristina nelson also saw plenty of time on the court in the second half, playing 11 minutes over the final two quarters. with Turner resting on the bench, the irish offense continued to feed the post, as nelson ended the night with 10 points, four rebounds and one assist, all in the second half. 

Those 10 points tied a career high for nelson, who missed all of last season while recov­ering from shoulder surgery, and mcgraw singled out her performance after the game. 
“she played very well. very happy with her,” mcgraw said. 
with the victory, notre dame secured a double-bye in the acc conference tour­nament, which will take place in just under two weeks in greensboro, north carolina. The irish have now secured that double-bye in each of its three seasons in the acc and has yet to drop a conference tournament game. 
before that, however, the irish have one final away game in the 2015-2016 cam­paign before returning to purcell pavilion for a pair of acc games to close the regu­lar-season slate. 
This monday, notre dame will travel to Tallahassee, Florida, to face Florida state, who currently sits in third place in the acc. Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at     ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Turner leads Irish rout over Deamon Decons 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
it was hardly in doubt, but no. 2 notre dame made things official Thursday night, clinching a top-four finish and double-bye in the upcoming acc tournament with an 86-52 road win over wake Forest. 
The irish (25-1, 13-0) never trailed against the demon deacons (15-12, 6-8) as sophomore forward kathryn westbeld scored on a layup 38 seconds into the game, estab­lishing an edge for the irish that would eventually swell to 34 points late in the fourth quarter. 
westbeld finished the game with 10 points and was one of our four irish players to hit double figures, but it was her classmate, forward brianna Turner, who led the team on the night, racking up 19 points and 11 rebounds for her second double-double of the season. 
“i was really happy with [Turner] because she was a 
see w bball PAGE 15 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
squad travels to georgia Tech 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
as the irish prepare to face georgia Tech on saturday night, they find themselves in the middle of a slugfest for the acc regular season title. 
no. 19 notre dame (18-7, 9-4) currently sits tied for fourth in the conference be­hind no. 5 north carolina, no. 11 miami and no. 7 virginia. Tied with no. 20 duke and no. 18 louisville, the irish are among six teams within one game of the conference’s top spot. irish head coach mike brey said he expects the end of the regular season to be an exciting one. 
“with what happened in chapel hill [on wednesday] night, this is going to be an interesting stretch run,” brey said. “i love the posi­tion we’re in. i think it’s ex­citing for our team, and it’s exciting for our fans.” 
even though the team has momentum after beating the cardinals last saturday, the irish cannot afford to take any game lightly, espe­cially on the road, brey said. 
“i think georgia Tech’s going to be very confident, especially [with] how they played and how they shot the ball in Tallahassee last night,” brey said. “and it’s going to be a dogfight. i would love to see us scratch out a road win. it’ll be a hard one to get. records don’t mean much in this league ... especially when you’re play­ing on the road.” 
This will be the second meeting of the year between the two teams, as the irish notched a 72-64 victory over the yellow Jackets on Jan. 13 to spark a four-game win­ning streak, which includ­ed a road win over the blue devils (20-6, 9-4 acc). 
This year, the irish are 3-3 on the road in confer­ence play, and their next three games will be away from purcell pavilion. brey said the key for the team’s success on the road will be strong play from junior guards steve vasturia and 
see m bball PAGE 15 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

nd hosts hoyas to begin season 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
Following back-to-back sea­sons in which they watched a national championship title slip from their grasp, the top-ranked irish opens their regular season against no. 14 georgetown on saturday. 
The matchup will take place in atlanta as part of the 2016 cobb county classic. last year, notre dame kicked off the regular sea­son against the hoyas, and the irish took home the 14-12 victory. 
“i was impressed with [the hoyas] last year,” irish head coach kevin corrigan said. “i thought they were athletic, and they played with tremendous en­ergy. They really came and com­peted and that was a hard fought game for us. Quite honestly, i ex­pect them to be better this year. 
“i think it should be a huge game for them to open the sea­son, and i know they are a team that’s been improving over the last couple years, and i’m really expecting them to be a very good team.” 
georgetown faces the irish after a 2015 season in which it made the big east championship game. The hoyas fell to denver, 16-8, in the conference champi­onship, and the irish head into the 2016 season after a similar encounter with the pioneers. Three weeks after knocking out the hoyas, denver took the irish out of the running for the ncaa title with an 11-10 victory in the Final Four. denver went on to win the championship game for its first national title ever. 
with a chance at a fresh start, the irish have turned to focus on themselves. a mix of returning veterans and young faces, notre dame brings an interesting mix to the field, and after starting their college careers last season, this year’s sophomores will rep­resent the majority of the under­classmen, corrigan said. 
“we’ve got a lot of young guys who are gonna play,” corrigan said. “we’ve got guys in the 
see m laX PAGE 14 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame, Providence fight for Conference lead 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Sophomore center Jake Evans passes the puck during Notre Dame’s 5-1 win over Maine at Compton Family Ice Arena on Saturday. 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
First-place notre dame will head to providence this weekend to take on the de­fending national champions for a pair of games with both hockey east and ncaa tour­nament implications. 
The no. 7 irish (18-5-7, 14­2-2 hockey east) are coming off a home sweep of maine last weekend and will look to secure a first-round bye in the hockey east tourna­ment with a strong showing against the no. 5 Friars (21­5-4, 12-3-3), who come into the weekend in third place in the conference. 
irish head coach Jeff Jackson spoke highly of providence and said the Friars will prepare the irish for the level of com­petition they will see in the postseason. 
“i think they’re a very well 
see hockey PAGE 14 




