The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 100 | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND Votes discusses income inequliaty 
‘Pizza, Pop and Politics’ examines political and theological stances on modern wealth gap 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
nd votes ’16 hosted a “pizza, pop and politics” dis­cussion on Thursday evening in geddes hall to examine what presidential candidate bernie sanders has called “the great moral issue of our time ... and the great eco­nomic issue of our time” — income inequality. 
The event featured lectures from christina wolbrecht, associate professor of po­litical science and direc­tor of the rooney center for american democracy, and margaret pfeil, associate professor of theology and co-founder of st. peter claver catholic worker house in south bend. 
wolbrecht kicked off the discussion, describing the rise in income inequality in america. 
“in the post-war period, af­ter world war ii … all groups slowly made gains in income. people could expect that over time, their real income would grow,” she said. “That has changed since around 1980. what we have seen is that in­comes for people in the mid­dle ... have stagnated — same with the poor. but income growth for people above the 95th percentile has increased fairly dramatically.” 
wolbrecht then exam­ined specific policies in american politics that she said have contributed to this 
see nd voTes PAGE 5 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
Margaret Pfeil, who holds a joint appointment in the theology department, spoke at an event about  income inequality in terms of Catholic social thought and race. 


social media app connects users 


Surveys assess campus diversity, student health 

By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 

a notre dame alumnus is trying to transform social me­dia by introducing forward-oriented timelines that enable users to connect with other users based on their future lo­cations and travel plans. 
andrew mcgill, a 2007 graduate, is the co-founder and chief executive officer of Flypside. The smartphone ap­plication allows users to cre­ate a new form of a post, called a Flyp, which communicates 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 

where a user will be in the fu­ture, how long his or her trip will be and what he or she is interested in doing while there. after creating a Flyp, mcgill said, users can view and connect with friends, friends of friends and others with similar interests who will be at the same location at the same time. They can also find events, promotions and ac­tivities that will be occurring while they are at a specified destination. 
see Flypside PAGE 4 


By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
This semester has been characterized for notre dame students not only by snow flurries, but also question flurries — from google surveys for classes posted on Facebook groups to detailed questionnaires administered by the division of student affairs. The diversity and inclusion campus climate survey and the national college health assessment (ncha) sur­vey were sent to both un­dergraduate and graduate students, lissa bill, senior counselor to the vice presi­dent for student affairs, said in an email. 

This is the first time the diversity and inclusion campus climate survey is being administered to stu­dents, bill said. 
“at notre dame we would like students from all back­grounds regardless of color, 
see survey PAGE 5 


alumni commemorate hesburgh legacy 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
it has been one year since university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh died, but his leg­acy as one of the most in­fluential figures in higher education and social issues continues. 
mike cloonan, a 1995 alumnus, said in an email that hesburgh included the decision to allow women into the university among his greatest achievements. 

“in an interview with him, he told me that mak­ing notre dame coed was his greatest accomplish­ment and when he would eventually meet the blessed mother, he would have had some explaining to do, if he had not done so,” cloonan said. 
every year, the Thanking Father Ted (TFT) Foundation provides a copy of the 2007 book “Thanking Father Ted” to all notre dame freshmen women. ann palmer, one of the first female alumna of notre dame and chairman of TFT, said the book con­sists of a collection of letters 
see hesburgh PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 





QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com What is the best care package? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 


Jim English 
greg hadley 
sophomore

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
knott hall 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

“Food with a note attached.” 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice 


Lacey Silvestri 
Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper 
sophomore 

Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor 
welsh Family hall

Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“nyquil.” 


Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 



Morgan Dunn
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
sophomore 


Managing Editor 
lyons hall 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

“my mom’s homemade banana

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, 
bread.” 
wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Ross Laedtke 
sophomore 
keough hall 
“notes from my little sister.” 

Stephanie Konrady 
sophomore welsh Family hall 
“coloring books.” 

Sydney Foreman 
sophomore 
Farley hall 
“mango strips.” 


News katie galioto  Sports marek mazurek  THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:  
nicole caratas  ben padanilam  
rachel o’grady  
Graphics susan Zhu  Scene erin mcauliffe  Friday  Saturday  Sunday  Monday  Tuesday  
Photo caitlyn Jordan  Viewpoint Tabitha ricketts  “Flint: Water, Race  Axiom Brass  ND Women’s Lacrosse  “The Right to Vote”  Blood Drive  
and Accountability”  DeBartolo Performing  vs. California  Law School  Grace Hall  
Law School  Arts Center  Arlotta Stadium  12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m.  10 a.m. - 2 p.m.  
Corrections  12:30 p.m.-1:30 p.m. Lecture presented by  8 p.m.-9 p.m. ND Symphony  12 p.m.-2 p.m. The Irish take on the  Discussion on voter ID laws, voter fraud and  Proceeds will go towards the Relay for  
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and  Julie Hurwitz.  Orchestra will perform.  Golden Bears.  federal oversight.  Life at Notre Dame.  
strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error.  Hockey vs. BU Compton Family Ice Arena 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. The Irish take on the  Fr. Hesburgh Memorial Concert Basilica of the Sacred Heart 8 p.m.-9 p.m.  Solemn Vespers Basilica of the Sacred Heart 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. Evening prayer in the  International Scholars Program Hesburgh Center 6 p.m.-7 p.m. Informational meeting  Stand Up Women: Gender Performance Hesburgh Center 5 p.m. Lecture honoring  
Terriers.  In honor of Fr. Hesburgh.  Lady Chapel.  for freshmen.  women in comedy.  





Snite Museum premiers temporary exhibits 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
The snite museum of art, home to more than 28,000 piec­es of art and one of the top uni­versity museums in the country, has recently added five new ex­hibits, according to gina costa, director of marketing and pub­lic relations for the snite. 
”we’re like a mini art insti­tute,” she said. “notre dame students can own the fact that their university art museum is one of the top in the country, which is really important.” 
of the five current tempo­rary exhibitions, “new to the collection,” “african-american voices” and “The portage path” are the three most popular with students, costa said. 
“new to the collection: Twentieth-centur y photographs” is an exhibit of more than 60 photographs ac­quired by the museum since 2013, she said. The pictures span across many of the century’s artistic styles and technologi­cal developments, according to costa. 
costa said photography and contemporary art exhibits are the most popular with students, with this display being espe­cially popular. 
“This exhibition really re­veals the ongoing activ­ity to refine the holdings of the snite’s permanent collection of photography,” she said. “we have over 10,000 photographs 

— some of the most impor­tant [photos] in the history of photography are here at notre dame.” 
“new to the collection” will be displayed through march 13, 
costa said.  
“african-american  voices”  
features  multimedia  pieces  
by  african-american  artists  

pulled from the museum’s per­manent collection, costa said. one of the featured artists, vanessa german, will be vis­iting campus from april 12 to april 14, costa said. 
according to costa, german is one of the most impor­tant american artists at the 

professor reflects on personal faith journey 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
professor daniel lapsley, professor and chair for the department of psychology, reflected on his faith journey for the second Fr. Ted Talk, in honor of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh, in reckers on Thursday night. 
lapsley said the journey of faith forces people to confront two fundamental questions. 
“The journey of faith, as i understand it, is an attempt to answer two really important questions. The first is: who am i? This is the great iden­tity question. This is the ques­tion that becomes especially compelling to adolescents and adults,” he said. “The second question was actually asked by Jesus: who is the son of man?” 
lapsley said these questions can’t be fully answered until one’s journey of faith is fully developed into a narrative. 
“i want to elevate the cat­egory of narrative and story to equal footing with the metaphor of journey,” he said. “coming to grips with faith is not just a journey, it’s be­ing able to tell a narrative. it’s being able to tell a story. it’s an attempt to find interweav­ing of the two great questions i posed. … our journey does not make sense until we develop it into a narrative that makes sense.” 
one’s narrative is constant­ly evolving and tries to make sense of the past, present and future, lapsley said. 
“you’re trying to make sense of what your life has been prior to coming to notre dame, try­ing to wrestle with what life is like now and what you promise to be in the future,” he said. “in the decades ahead of you, you’re going to try to keep the narrative going. The story you’ve constructed for yourself from childhood through ado­lescence is not going to be the same story when you’re 30, and 40, and 50 and beyond.” 
lapsley said his narrative changed drastically when he reached middle school and fal­tered in his religious beliefs. 
“i was a religious boy, very pious. i took ritual and pi­etism seriously,” he said. “but [in middle school] i’m sort of trying to figure out who i am. i’m trying to answer the iden­tity question. … i was pushing back against borrowed ideas. 

paid adverTisemenT 

i’m trying to carve out a sense of self, i’m trying to write my own narrative.” 
This sudden decrease in faith, lapsley said, is very com­mon among adolescents. 
“From early adolescence to late adolescence, ritual ob­servance, religiosity among adolescents, declines into the university years — religiosity declines, but spirituality in­creases,” he said. “answering the question who am i and who do you say i am are going to be interwoven … but sometimes this bumps up against devel­opmental challenges, which kind of breaks the story apart, as you try to write a better narrative.” 
part of his journey of faith was reconciling the differ­ent storylines of his narrative, lapsley said. 
“as i struggle to keep the nar­rative going, a couple of other storylines come into my story,” he said. “one storyline is that as a scientist — i’m commit­ted to naturalism in ethics and in science. so that means that transcendental or metaphysi­cal or supernatural things kind of bump in. it’s hard to make that fit into a narrative. … i take solace in the fact that empiricism has it’s home in catholicism.” 
lapsley said being a member of the notre dame community helped him to reconnect with his faith. 
“i felt like it was the hand of god. i felt like this was not an accident, that somehow it was providential that i was here,” he said. “i began to reflect on this. i began to go to daily mass at the basilica, i began to get in touch with my faith life again. … i just felt a deeper connec­tion to the faith community here.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at  cbecker3@nd.edu 
moment, especially “when you think about social justice.” 
“she has an ‘art house’ near her home in pittsburgh,” costa said. “ ... it’s a safe place for women, for kids to go and make art. what’s coming out of there is just so empowering and so awesome.” 
“african american voices” will also continue running until march 13, costa said. 
“The portage path” is a collec­tion of photographs commis­sioned by the snite as part of south bend’s 150th anniversary. 
“kay westhues was commis­sioned by us to photograph some aspect of the local area, and she selected the st. Joseph­kankakee river portage,” costa said. “This path was used by the explorers, the fur trappers, and she’s visually documented this whole path, which is really why south bend grew along the river.” 

“The portage path” will be on exhibition through april 3. 
although those three exhibits are the most popular currently on display, costa said she hopes even more students will take an interest. 
“They’re three really exciting shows,” costa said. “everyone on campus will find something they love and [to] be inspired by.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
SMC club hosts Zumbathon to help fight cancer 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 

saint mary’s will join the fight against cancer with this year’s pink party Zumbathon hosted by the college’s stand up to cancer club this saturday. 
The fourth annual Zumbathon will take place in angela athletic Facility from 5:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. and is open to the public. Tickets are available at the door — $5 for students and $15 for the general public. proceeds will benefit the kelly cares Foundation. 
according to the kelly cares Foundation website, paqui kelly, wife of notre dame head football coach brian kelly, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2003 and started the kelly cares Foundation. The mission of the foundation is to help support other organizations that share the same values as the kelly family — health, education and community. 
This is the first year saint mary’s club will be working to benefit an organization in the south bend com­munity. in previous years, the Zumbathon proceeds have gone to the susan g. komen Foundation and the national stand up to cancer organization. 
The Zumbathon was first started by saint mary’s alumnae and physical fit­ness instructor kimmi Troy in 2014. 
“i’ve seen the success of other Zumba parties, and i knew that the potential for it to be here could be very big,” she said. “cancer touches everyone in some way. everyone has been affected.” 
club president catherine smith said many of the event’s participants are members of the south bend community. 
“it’s interesting to see the students and community interacting,” smith said. “it’s really cool to see every­one come together to make a difference.” 
claire condon, a member of the club, said there is a heightened sense of com­munity between students and the public at the event. 
“everyone’s from a differ­ent background, but they all come together for this one cause,” condon said. 
Troy said the event can inspire others, both in the local community and on a national scale. 
“it has the ability to make someone want to fight more 
— someone who’s fighting cancer or someone who’s never experienced it,” she said. 
Troy said Zumba will be led by a variety of expe­rienced instructors, each with their own style. There will also be vendors, re­freshments and a limited number of free t-shirts at the event. 
she said she hopes people realize the long-term ef­fects this event can have on others. 
“i hope that they walk out of here knowing that they made a contribution,” she said. “not only will they walk out of here sweating and smiling, but their mon­ey is going toward saving lives.” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 



Flypside 
conTinued From page 1 
“we wanted to create a plat­form for people in motion to connect with each other ahead of time and find cool events that match the user’s inter­ests,” mcgill said. “Flypside is the ultimate social planning tool, as it relates specifically to your future.” 
mcgill said the application also transforms the nature of a tag and hashtag in social me­dia by enabling users to now communicate future identity, interests or intent. 
“you can assign a #hostel­name to a Flyp, then select it to see who is staying at your hostel. if you plan to go surf­ing while on spring break, add #surfing to your Flyp to view other people interested in surfing who are also there,” he said. “you can even enter and then select ‘university of notre dame’ from your profile to see if there are other notre dame students crossing your path on spring break or dur­ing your summer travels. The [uses] are endless.” 
mcgill said he was inspired to create Flypside through his in­ternational travels. after seven years as a gasoline trader at bp, mcgill completed an around­the-world tour that included south america, australia, southeast asia, the middle east and the mediterranean. 
“This made me notice two main points related to being in motion: the ‘who’ and the ‘what,’” he said. 
The ‘who’ can range from meeting up with close friends or acquaintances, to strangers who share similar interests, mcgill said, while the ‘what’ is the events, promotions and ac­tivities taking place at a certain location. 
“like yelp filters restaurants based on a user’s interests, we want to sort and publicize people, events and promotions related to each of our user’s fu­ture location based calendars,” he said. 
while Flypside’s versatility and practicality make it use­ful for a very broad audience, mcgill said the initial target demographic is the millennial generation, particularly college students and frequent travelers. 

“when i was at notre dame, i studied abroad in london and thus know how beneficial 
“We wanted to create a platform for people in motion to connect with each other ahead of time and find cool events that match the user’s interests.” 
Andrew McGill 
chief executive officer 
Flypside 

Flypside will be for college stu­dents who are traveling,” he said. 
mcgill said privacy, a con­cern for most big social media and tech company’s today, is one of the company’s key priorities. 
“Flypside is making sure to create privacy barriers that us­ers can easily control,” he said. “in order to prevent harass­ment, users cannot send more than one introductory message to other users, which is similar to a Facebook friend request ac­companied by an introductory text.” 
mcgill said Flypside is still in its early launch stages, but has already released an appli­cation for iphone and android platforms. in order to make Flypside a successful compa­ny, mcgill said he has worked carefully to create a great team around him, including both employees and advisors. 
“good team members must, one, believe in the idea, two, believe in you and three, have the skills and resources to help,” mcgill said. 
aiming to boost growth, mcgill said, the Flypside team is now putting their collective efforts into user acquisition and the creation of strategic partnerships. 

“Friends and mentors can sometimes get you in the door, but after that you really have to sell and prove yourself,” he said. 
additionally, mcgill said the notre dame community has been supportive and helpful, especially as the university looks to bolster its presence in silicon valley through the california initiative. 
The president of notre dame’s mba entrepreneurship club, mike Ferrigno said Flypside is an excellent exam­ple of how notre dame is fos­tering entrepreneurship. 
“i am excited to see more notre dame startups develop­ing as notre dame increases their presence in silicon valley,” Ferringno said. “andrew’s pas­sion for getting the notre dame community involved with Flypside is very encouraging for the program.” 
Contact JP Gschwind at jgschwin@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT 




Survey 
conTinued From page 1 
gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class and na­tionality to experience and contribute to a community where they feel welcome and included,” she said. “This assessment is a step in iden­tifying areas where that is happening and where we need to improve. The ncha survey has been adminis­tered in previous years, most recently in 2013, and allows us to better understand gen­eral health behaviors of our students.” 
individual responses to the surveys will remain pri­vate, bill said. 
“The surveys are adminis­tered by national organiza­tions, ebi map-works and american college health association,” she said. “survey results that notre dame will receive will not contain identifying infor­mation for individuals. For the diversity and inclusion campus climate survey, aggregated results will be shared with university ad­ministrators and two advi­sory committees to the vice president for student affairs that are comprised of stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
“The aggregated results for the ncha survey will be shared with university administrators and the healthy campus coalition, a coalition facilitated by the mcdonald center for student well-being, also comprised of students, fac­ulty and staff,” bill said. 
each survey was sent to 5,860 students, bill said. both surveys are nation­al surveys that are be­ing administered at other institutions. 
“we will receive aggre­gated peer results, which will allow us to benchmark ourselves against other universities and, in turn, our aggregated results will be shared with peer insti­tutions,” she said. “notre dame will not be identi­fied by name in any shared reports. american college health association pub­lishes a national summary of ncha results describing general health behaviors of american college students.” 

data and feedback collect­ed in the stories will “enrich student life, programming and resources at notre dame,” bill said. 

“... we will use your feed­back to enrich student life, programming and re­sources at notre dame,” she said.  “These surveys are the best opportunity the university has to allow students to share informa­tion about their experience at notre dame and provide candid feedback. The more students that participate, the greater confidence we have in moving forward and improving the campus ex­perience for all students at notre dame.” 

Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 
our community better,” she are giving back to him what you Fight For?” spots during 
Hesburgh ND Votes 

said. is his. 
notre dame football games, 
conTinued From page 1 

conTinued From page 1 wolbrecht also discussed pfeil also discussed the im­
edited the video. how inequality could im-pact race has on inequality. 
“i offered to do the proj­inequality, focusing espe-pact popular participation. “The typical white fam­
to Fr. hesburgh. ect for free, but was told they cially on issues relating to “The other concern is that ily earns $50,400, while the 
“This is the last year our needed to empty their foun­housing. The application of [income inequality] breeds typical black family earns 
foundation will be donating dation’s account and it con-certain tax breaks that ap-apathy, that politics really $32,028, and the typical la-
books to the freshmen wom-tained $100,” he said. “like Fr. ply only to homeowners has just serve the 1 percent,” she tino family earns $36,840,” 
en,” palmer said in an email. Ted, i enjoy a fine cigar once proved to increase inequal-said. she said. “disparities in 
“with Father Ted’s death, our in a while and was told to ity, while also being politi-after wolbrecht, pfeil homeownership fall upon 
foundation’s reason to exist spend the money on remem­cally popular, she said. spoke on income inequality racial and ethnic lines as 
has ceased. so, we’re folding bering him with a fine cigar “[These policies] are not in terms of catholic social well — 73 percent of whites 
our foundation. notre dame and beverage or two, which i only not progressive, as in teaching, and also income own a home, compared to 
women connect will pay intend to do.” they help out the poorest, inequality as it relates to 37 percent of latinos and 45 
for and distribute the books The 26-minute video fea­but they are regressive. a lot race. percent of blacks.” 
starting in Fall 2016.” tures hesburgh’s audio re-more of the benefits accrue “The ethical issues raised pfeil concluded the talk by 
in the past, the book flection on the coeducation to the wealthy,” wolbrecht from the perspective of reiterating the words of pope 
was distributed by hall of notre dame, as well as said. catholic social teaching are Francis on the subject. 
president’s council (hpc) in cummings’s analysis and wolbrecht concluded her structural in nature,” she “when a society ... is will-
the fall. This year, the dis-remarks by kathy cekanski­talk by addressing the pos-said. “These structures, ob-ing to leave a part of itself on 
tribution was postponed to Farrand, the first female rec­sible effects of income in-jectively speaking, are mor-the fringes, no political pro-
coincide with the one-year tor of badin hall, and palmer. equality on the american ally skewed because they grams or resources spent on 
anniversary of hesburgh’s cekanski-Ferrand, now an political system. violate the standards of jus-law enforcement or surveil­
death. attorney for the south bend “[income inequality] can tice, specifically distributive lance systems can indefi­
senior meredith Fraser, co-city council, spoke at breen­undermine the collective, in justice, commutative justice nitely ensure tranquility ... 
chair of hpc, said she has phillips hall wednesday one sense. democratic poli-and social justice.” because the socioeconomic 
been working with palmer night to commemorate Fr. tics is that we’re all in one pfeil referenced st. system is unjust,” pfeil said. 
to prepare for this “celebra-hesburgh. she will also speak boat, and that we are work-ambrose, who said, “you are 
tion of coeducation and book at howard hall, pangborn ing towards not just mak-not making a gift of what is Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer 
dispersal.” The women of hall and mcglinn hall ing ourselves better, but yours to the poor person, you at lmasinmo@nd.edu 
notre dame’s freshmen class through monday night. will receive their copy of “several female halls are “Thanking Father Ted” today. using the video as the cen-

Fraser said she gained terpiece for their celebrations glimpses of Fr. hesburgh’s of Father Ted this month,” legacy while participating in palmer said.“our Foundation his funeral procession last has established a youTube year. she said partaking in channel and put the video this legacy with those closest on it so generations of notre to him made her feel out of dame women to come can place as well as part of a com-hear from him and us what it munity at the same time. was like.” 
“Those minutes of displace-cloonan also said he hoped ment and somehow simulta-future generations of notre neous belonging will remain dame students would be with me for my life,” Fraser aware of all that Fr. hesburgh said. “i thank Fr. Ted for his accomplished. welcome to this home.” “Fr. Ted was a hero of mine 
TFT also put together a vid-and symbolized all that is eo of a panel that kathleen good about notre dame and cummings, director of the the potential we all have to cushwa center, chaired for make a positive difference in the fortieth anniversary of the world,” he said. notre dame coeducation four years ago. cloonan, who Contact Megan Valley at  produces the “what would mvalley@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 
It was worth it 

Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief 

“it starts as a club, then it becomes a job. and then it turns into an obsession.” 
ann marie Jakubowski, my predecessor as editor-in-chief, said those words about The observer on the very first night of her term in February 2014, and i’ve thought of them often ever since, especially as my time as editor has drawn to a close. 
Those words perfectly sum up my expe­rience at The observer, as they do for so many others, i think. 
when i look back over the past four years and count the hours of my time i have devoted to this newspaper, i’m amazed. after all, it just doesn’t seem log­ical how much energy, talent and time my colleagues and i poured into this newspa­per every day. 
and yet, all the same, i don’t feel as though i wasted my time at The observer. i’m not ashamed of trying so hard on an endeavor that took so much and gave so little. 
i’m not ashamed, because i truly do believe this newspaper is an invaluable good to the notre dame and saint mary’s community. it creates dialogue, provides a forum, goes in-depth on issues and holds those in power accountable. it is worth obsessing over. 
if The observer were nothing more than an extracurricular activity, if it were sim­ply a training ground, then all the time each staffer puts in would not be worth it. it would not be worth the attention of the students, professors, administrators, staff members and others in this community. 
Thankfully, the people who work at The observer care about the university and college. They care so much they are will­ing to point out mistakes or flaws when they are present, just as they are willing to celebrate all that makes our commu­nity so unique. 
and that’s ultimately why so many of the people who work and have worked at The observer gradually became obsessed with it; to care about The observer and the work it does is to care for the notre dame and saint mary’s community. That’s why i’m proud of the all the time i spent on this newspaper, and why i am so excited to see what the future holds for it. 
it started as a club. Then it was a job. somewhere along the line it turned into an obsession. 
it introduced me to some of the best people i will ever know, then made me want to scream at them when we were still working at 5 a.m. Then it made us friends, because you can’t spend that much time together and not be friends. 
it took years off my life, stressed me out beyond belief and kept me in the base­ment of south dining hall an absolutely unreasonable amount of time. 
it was worth it. 

Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
bernie’s silent scoTus revolution 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

The time is at hand for presidential contender and vermont u.s. senator bernie sanders to dem­onstrate his raucous revolutionary power. The is­sue is not a sexy campaign matter but a serious and tedious procedural act that is uniquely accessible to but a few, namely members of the u.s. senate who have standing to force consideration of a nominee for the current supreme court vacancy. it is a mo­ment on the presidential journey that only sanders can clutch, but one he probably will fail to grasp. 
in his new hampshire victory speech and con­sistently on the campaign trail, sanders equates his candidacy with an anti-establishment politi­cal revolution “because we harnessed the energy, and the excitement” to succeed at the ballot box in november. sanders characterizes his quest by claiming, “This is the promise of america, and this is the promise we must keep alive for future generations.” 
political campaigns — especially presidential contests that are drawn-out, intense months when each candidate is scrutinized, oftentimes lending for several candidates to rise and fall in the polls as voters shop for their perfect candidate — are not only about lofty rhetoric, but also most impor­tantly about optics. who looks presidential? who can verbally react spontaneously on the spur of the moment rather than stick to a script? who seizes a rare moment to act decisively and define the entire campaign? 
presidential symbolism speaks louder than words. For example, John kennedy offered legal as­sistance to martin luther king, Jr. during the 1960 campaign, which ultimately converted african­american protestants to vote for the catholic kennedy. Thus far, the sanders campaign has acted merely in a rhetorical vacuum. while his personal history may include stellar moments of strong civil rights actions, sanders lags in symbolic gestures, which thereby lessens his standing among voters. as he plans now to visit Flint, michigan, hillary clinton interrupted her campaign weeks ago to visit Flint residents and show their lives matter more to her. 
sanders can claim he “will bring tens of millions of our people together.” however, if his claims are to come true, he must begin to act boldly on the campaign trail if, as he likes to say, americans “will all come together to say loudly, and clearly that the government of our great nation belongs to all of us, not just a few wealthy campaign contributors. That is what this campaign is about, that is what the po­litical revolution is about.” 
sanders proclaims he is “taking on the most pow­erful political organization in the united states of america,” but he has yet to show any fight during the campaign. Forget wall street and its rigged economy. Forget the clinton organization built up over a lifetime of her own progressive battles. Forget the democratic national committee whose structural operations now are geared to avoid past decades-long electoral massacres like george mcgovern in 1972 and michael dukakis of 1988 — having reset the party’s national prominence (to the independent sanders’ benefit) in 1992 with bill clinton and in 2008 through barack obama.  now is the time for sanders to prove just once that he and his revolution are real. best of all, he does not need to rally a single person for a mass protest. 
ironically, sanders can prove his anti-establish­ment rhetoric, which his opponents characterize as his one-issue candidacy, through a single action, namely suing the senate gop leadership in an ur­gent appeal before the supreme court. symbolically for him, it is the perfect fight. presently, no more powerful political organization exists than the gop senate leadership which refuses to hold any hearings on president obama’s upcoming supreme court nomination. sanders has the legal standing to challenge their obstruction this year as a viola­tion of their collective senatorial duties as specifi­cally written in the u.s. constitution. 
The bittersweet irony of a sanders appeal to the high court rests on the late Justice antonin scalia’s philosophy of strict constitutional structural origi­nalism. it would be as though scalia rose from the grave to mandate that his replacement must be fulfilled during this presidential and congressio­nal term. scalia would argue the nation’s founders wrote and intended it to be so. 
nobody argues that the constitution sets the president’s term of four years. The court would fur­ther never disagree that the president shall nomi­nate, and “by and with the advice and consent of the senate, shall appoint … Judges of the supreme court.” however, a sanders challenge would con­tend timeliness further covered in section 2., “The president shall have power to fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess of the senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their next session.” 
our founding fathers clearly foresaw times when a two-year congressional session ends and the president continues authority during their recess, but only for a year during which a new congress convened with its voice in the process. conversely, the opposite is just as true. without both branches mandated within their tenures, the next president could simply refuse to nominate another justice, preferring a chaotic 4-4 tie until after the next con­gress but during the last half of the presidential term. 
earlier this week while in greenville, south carolina, sanders referred to his polling deficit in tomorrow’s south carolina primary election with, “you know, we go around once so we might as well make history as we go around. we may as well do something that people will remember decades from today.” 
great words, but they too cry out for action. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter at @GaryJCaruso or via email at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Girls and women and maturity, oh my 
female characters.” women of color have to be women fact. and i’m still a girl to men whom i don’t know who 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 

whenever someone asks me where i go to school, i have a minor existential crisis. 
i love saint mary’s college. That’s not the problem. The problem is that i have to respond, “saint mary’s college. it’s the university of notre dame’s sister school, in south bend, indiana.” since many people aren’t familiar with smc, and since i always talk too much, i then have to make the decision of how i will describe my home: “an all-girls school” or “a women’s college.” 
The difference between “girl” and “woman” is a relatively simple one by definition. a girl is a female child, meaning “from birth to maturity.” girls are kids. girls are babies whose parents hang “it’s a girl!” streamers around their house. girls wear cute pink dresses and pigtails with bows in them. girls are im­mature. girls giggle. They’re members of the girl scouts and play with barbies. girls go to elementary school. 
a woman is an adult female, meaning “after reach­ing maturity.” women are grown-ups. women wear pantyhose. women buy women’s magazines, like “good housekeeping” and “cosmopolitan.” women have to worry about things like women in the work­place and women in combat and going to the gynecol­ogist. women have a special place in hell for those of us who don’t support one another. women are mature. women chit-chat. in media, women have to be “strong of color or strong black women. women have jobs. or children. never both at the same time, of course. 
sometimes, women are ladies. either a lady, like in england, or ladies, drinking half-price margaritas on Thursday nights at a T.g.i. Fridays. 
girls and women are distinct from one another, at least in our linguistic connotations. 
so what am i? 

of course, the standard definitions and connota­tions of girls and women, in contrast to boys and men, are stereotypical and often problematic for females as a whole, even more so for females of all diverse com­munities. i don’t have a problem being biologically or socially considered a female — saint mary’s has made sure of that. The existential crisis comes from declar­ing myself to be a grown-up or not. some days, i wear pantyhose and a name tag that says “miss phelan,” and teach children. To them, i’m another adult in the classroom. some days, i think about what it would be like if i move back in with my parents and how frus­trating it will be if they don’t respect me as an adult. 
other days, i make mom call the pharmacy to refill my prescriptions for me, because refilling prescrip­tions is hard and has something to do with insurance and credit cards and i just want my mom to do it for me. 
To some people, like the students i work with in my education field placement or my early childhood de­velopment center kids, i’m a woman. i’m a grown-up. but to some people, like my parents and grandparents, i’ll always be a girl. i’ll always be their little girl, in roll down windows to tell me that i’m a “sexy little girl.” This happened to me in a grocery store parking lot a few days ago. i was wearing a stained grey sweat­shirt and oversized grey sweatpants that are covered in cat hair. clearly, i am an extremely sexy little girl. 
This isn’t a problem unique to me or saint mary’s. it’s something i assume most college students deal with. we’re usually out of our familial homes, yes, and are testing the waters of real life through apartments and summer internships. but many or most of us are still reliant on our parents, not only financially, but emotionally, too. we make shopping lists and then buy our own groceries and, yes, college-aged women do go to the gynecologist, but we still think about things like “insurance” in the vague realm of “things i’ll have to do someday but at least not today.” 
males struggle with this issue as well, i’m sure. but saint mary’s makes me confront it head-on every time someone asks about my school. “all-girls” sounds much too juvenile, but “women’s college” still sounds too scary, even as a junior. so when asked to describe saint mary’s, i usually just make a nervous grunting sound and stare at them. a very grown-up, mature, womanly response. 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. All she wants is for her cats to be proud of her someday. She can be reached at cphela01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
a call for complete divestment 
Adam Wiechman 
guest column 

climate change is a thing. an overwhelming 97 percent of climate scientists agree that the unprec­edented, rapid change in the earth’s climate is real and caused by humans. however, if the past 21 climate conferences have proven anything, recognizing the problem won’t solve it. Faced with the media’s portray­al of climate change as a daunting apocalypse waiting to happen, we, as citizens, are left feeling absolutely powerless. if climate change is such a massive issue, how are we supposed to do anything about it? ride our bikes more? 
This viewpoint is meant to be both a catalyst for dis­cussion and a call to action; it is an opportunity for us, as members of a community that prides itself on ethi­cal reflection, to genuinely question the way our deci­sions intersect with the changing reality of our planet. Through this column, i want to provide a suggestion that is both feasible and impactful for our notre dame community: complete divestment from fossil fuels and reinvestment in the energy transition. 
The world economic Forum, in their annual global risks report, named climate change as one of the big­gest threats to global economic stability. The report particularly highlighted climate change’s consider­able impact on food security. as volatile rain patterns and rising temperatures take a toll on global crop cycles, the world’s vulnerable food supply will be un­able to meet the growing demand of a rising global population. on top of this, one needs only to look at hurricanes katrina and sandy to see the economic devastation of extreme weather events. as the climate continues to change, scientists predict that more is to come in our future if nothing is done. another aspect is large-scale migration. There is no better justification to leave your homeland than when it is underwater or you have lost access to fundamental resources neces­sary to live. 
now an instinctual response to this could be, “what do the economic effects of climate change have to do with divesting from fossil fuels? all that matters is the economic stability of oil companies, the source of the investment returns.” while the current buzz surrounding unusually low oil prices, expected bankruptcies of a third of today’s oil companies and exxonmobil’s near loss of its aaa rating all serve as potential responses, i have two potential responses that avoid the extremely volatile subject of oil prices. 
First, a rather simple argument is that the 200 fossil fuel companies identified by 350.org, the center for the american divestment movement, are not isolated from the rest of the economy. if climate change, as it already has, continues to affect global economic stability, exxonmobil cannot just avoid that. in fact, they may even become directly affected by the power of climate change, as hurricane katrina proved when a recorded eight million barrels of oil were spilled into the water­ways of louisiana and alabama. 
second, fossil fuel companies today are able to play a pretty misleading trick on the investment community. The list of 200 companies use their massive amount of reserves as claimed capital. The problem with this is that, as a 2012 carbon Tracker report points out, those reserves hold five times more carbon dioxide than the atmosphere can handle if runaway warming (2.) is to be avoided. essentially, if anyone comes to their senses and begins enforcing the emissions standards called for by cop21, all of those reserves will turn into stranded assets. The carbon bubble is set to burst, and we need to get out of it. 
however, what i hope people take away from this movement is that our decisions cannot only be about “economics.” Today’s changing climate shows us the environment is not simply an external cost, but a concrete social reality that extends beyond economic calculations. millions of people suffering from un­precedented climate patterns provide a wake-up call that short-term returns logic is ethically incoherent. we cannot continue to be associated with this suffer­ing. The university of notre dame can no longer profit off the destruction of our planet. 
we, Fossil Free nd, propose the university of notre dame undergo a complete divestment of any university investments as per the list of 200 fossil fuel companies and reinvestment of those funds in the following areas of energy transition: energy efficiency, renewable or low emission energy generation, sustain­able storage and distribution of energy, sustainable agriculture and mass transportation. 
beyond the economic argument i introduced above, i want to touch on the exemplifying role divestment can have. notre dame is the largest catholic univer­sity in america, and as Fr. Jenkins said in his letter explaining the china policy, “the mission of notre dame calls us to live up to high moral standards.” we are notre dame, and we need to recognize our duty as a model for moral decision-making. divestment and reinvestment sends a message, a message that the world’s premier catholic university will not tolerate any involvement with the injustices of climate change. 
my name is adam wiechman. i am a freshman at notre dame, and in the fall of last year, i joined Fossil Free nd. we are not a club. we don’t have a president, a secretary, a treasurer or a concession stand during football season. we are a collection of students frus­trated by the state of our world and our university’s role in contributing to it, and we want your help. The only way we are going to change anything is with peo­ple power, and we want the support of as many notre dame and saint mary’s students and faculty as we can get. 
This coming sunday, at 3 p.m., we will be hosting a call to action gathering in laFortune, informing our community of who we are and what we are fighting for, and we want all of you to come. This call is not a pat-on-the-back rally for those that already agree with us, but an engagement with our notre dame commu­nity. along with this, we strongly encourage those who are skeptical of the divestment movement to attend, to listen to what we have to say and to offer up any criti­cisms or questions you might have. This movement is not intended to reflect the perspectives of a hand­ful of passionate environmentalists, but our entire community. 
Adam Wiechman is a freshman living in Carrol Hall. He can be reached at awiechma@md.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 

There are no spoilers to this film, for those of us who can remember the financial climate in 2008. The mort­gage debt crisis situation is explained in the non-fiction 2010 novel by michael lewis “The big short: inside the doomsday machine.” knowing ‘The big short” the mov­ie is based on this novel, you might wonder how a docu­mentary could secure such big-name actors. steve carell, christian bale, brad pitt and ryan gosling are the names strewn across the movie poster. 
The movie isn’t sold as a documentary, it’s adapted from the novel into a drama — but barely. heavily nar­rated by ryan gosling, it features definitions of finan­cial terms at the bottom of the screen and metaphorical explanations through celebrity cameo: margot robbie explains sub-prime loans in a bubble bath, famous chef anthony bourdain explains cdos in a restaurant kitch­en and selena gomez explains synthetic cdos playing blackjack . The well-known stars draw attention to boring topics, but objective, scripted explanations are the least desirable way to enjoy your favorite celebrity. 
based on high ratings on imdb and rotten Tomatoes, viewers do not seem disappointed at the underdeveloped roles. only christian bale, as a socially awkward former doctor with an incredible knack for number-crunching and an appreciation for heavy metal music, could have conveyed a real character out of his few lines. steve carell’s character shows emotion, but nothing dynamic or unexpected. brad pitt’s character mirrors maturity in his acting career by serving as a mentor to a young pair of investors. no cast could have done more with the limited flexibility of these roles. 
The characters are not unimportant: they demonstrate the type of person that could have predicted the crisis. unaffected by mainstream media and popular consen­sus, these “outsiders and weirdos” were the only ones ec­centric enough to see past the illusion. 
The film is provocative, but this is a result of the actual events. as an audience, we grow to hate the banks and bankers while desiring the success of many characters. 
but the sad and complicated reality is that their success means doom for the economy. Throughout the film, we experience multiple realizations on the front of each character and just how doomed the mortgage bonds re­ally are, but these revelations lose their flavor through­out. perhaps most heart-wrenching is the realization that the big banks won’t be paying for their mistakes — it’s working people who are screwed over again and again, but this realization is only seen at a distance in the film. 
if “The big short” succeeds at anything, it’s at drawing mainstream attention to the irresponsible actions of the banking industry — the disguised historical account cer­tainly draws more popular attention than the book. The based-on-real-life aspects of this movie are the most com­pelling, but they would be more compelling coming from a reputable source than a hollywood movie.  personally, i would trade “The big short” for a documentary with ac­tual witnesses and experts, and give bale, pitt, carell and gosling the time to star in an actual drama. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
FRIDAY 


What: LunchMoney Lewis 
When: 10 p.m. 
Where: Legends 
How Much: free 

lunchmoney lewis has the hit single “bills,” alongside songwriting credits for major pop artists and a feature on nicki minaj’s “The pinkprint.” catch him at legends for no (lunch)money. 
SATURDAY 

What: “Show Some Skin” When: 7 p.m. Where: Annenberg Audiorium at the Snite How Much: free 
“show some skin,” a student-run production that uses the art of storytelling to explore identity, utilizes anonymous monologues to “facilitate a critical discussion on human diversity, inclusion and exclusion.” show up to the snite for a provoking, important insights on campus. 

SUNDAY 

What: “The Bear” and “Afterplay” When: 7:30 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Performing       Arts Center, Philbin Studio Theatre How Much: $7 for students, $15      for general admission, $12 for         seniors 
The department of Film, Television and Theatre presents a pair of comedic one-acts based on the plays of russian playwright anton chekov. “The bear” and “afterplay” touts an irish spin on chekov’s farcically vaudevillian characters. check out scene writer adam ramos’s review online. 
WEEKLY WATCH 

Weekly Watch is a series in which a Scene Writer picks a movie or show available on an instant streaming ser­vice and then discusses it for Monday’s paper. 
stream the critically-acclaimed (but oscars snubbed) indie film “dope” on netflix this weekend. come for the highschool punk band vibes, old school hip-hop and 90s-inspired fashion and stay for scene editor erin mcauliffe’s review in monday’s paper. 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


By SAM FENTRESS 
scene writer 

“love” begins and ends at a gas station. This is not where the first and final scenes take place, but it is the intentional starting and ending point for the romance — perhaps too strong a word for this relationship — at the heart of the netflix comedy whose first 10-episode sea­son dropped February 19. 
“love” plots the intersection of gus (paul rust of upright citizens brigade fame) and mickey (gillian Jacobs, britta from “community”), two 30-somethings rebounding from lopsided relationships in los angeles. mickey smokes pot and works for Fm radio. gus wears graphic band tees and tutors child stars for Tv. Though the title suggests something grander, the show stays true to its fairly singular goal of examining the slips and slides of its central relationship — a plodding, funny and fre­quently painful slow-dance. 
Ten episodes afford plenty — maybe too much — time for that, but the show is easily (and best) consumed in its entirety or a few big chunks. The episodes usually span the course of a day, ending in the middle of the night and picking up either moments later or the following morn­ing. This layout works to particular effect in a show like “love,” where a great deal of forward motion depends on whether a character will get up the next morning and pick up the phone. 
on texting: “love” is very much set in the present, though it chooses, rather refreshingly, not to beat its au­dience over the head with the nuances of 21st century relationships. yes, the show’s characters text, smoke and 
Nick Laureano 
scene writer 

colder. longer. higher. lower. Faster. slower. grosser. Farther. leonardo dicaprio’s performance in “The revenant” is one of “–ers.” what dicaprio endured dur­ing the shoot for alejandro gonzalez iñárritu’s film has become the stuff of legend: “i heard leo ate raw bison liver!” “i heard he almost lost his fingers to frostbite!” “did you know he acTually slept inside that horse carcass?” in “The revenant,” leo attempts to top the decadent heights of his last performance/failed oscar attempt — as Jordan belfort, emperor of excess, in “The wolf of wall street” — with an excess of exertion. more, more, more! 
and, so perfectly has that conceit been captured in the new internet flash game, “leo’s red carpet rampage.” created by line animation, “rampage” lets players guide an eight-bit leo through an obstacle course of a red carpet — leo must collect sag awards, outrun matt damon and dodge paparazzi all in pursuit of the oscar that has eluded him throughout his entire career. 
pressing the g and h keys in rapid succession brings leo to a sprint, though the game demands more than fine dexterity; players need visual acuity and quick re­flexes to spot obstacles then successfully hurdle them by pressing the space bar. Focusing on that little animated stream video, but the moments of contemporaneity are more atmospheric than anecdotal. That being said, a well-advertised moment where gus hurls a box of blu­rays out of the car window capitalizes in catharsis of the 2010s — dvds just wouldn’t have been the same. 
gus’ insistence on blu-rays and constant prioritizing of his “nerd” lifestyle over what mickey would deem a “normal’ relationship is surely a leaf out of “The 40-year­old virgin,” where steve carell’s character refuses to part with his mint-condition action figures. “you’re like a 40-year-old 12-year-old,” mickey tells gus in the show’s second episode. The statement could be aptly applied to lots of Judd apatow characters, who directed “virgin” and co-created “love” with married couple paul rust and lesley arfin. The show wears the apatow badge on its sleeve (which certainly didn’t hurt marketing), but rust and Jacobs play characters entirely their own. Their chemistry makes the show, and although they fit the apatow shell, they also frequently break out of it. (This might also be the appropriate time to note that in re­gards to Tv, Judd apatow is kind of like a less fat and less funny dan harmon. Jokes aside, “community” fans will appreciate the shared neuroticism in mickey and britta, though mickey is more lost and likeable.) 
“love” delivers laughs, and one of its great pleasures is how well it benefits from everyone involved. not only is the show exceedingly well-cast, but fans of rust will recognize pals from comedy bang! bang! and the ucb who bring texture and range to the show’s humor. in all honesty, the show’s comedic center of gravity is closer to these supporting characters than to rust or Jacobs; they give us something to laugh at, while their friends and 
oscar statuette is stressful, and after playing the game for just five minutes my jaw was clenched and my brow furrowed — just like leo throughout the entirety of “The revenant.” 
in provoking that response in its players, “rampage,” a silly meme-turned-video game, actually becomes a necessary meditation on hollywood. a quick look at the recent oscar winning performances is a troubling il­lustration of how sadistic the 6,000 voting members of the academy can be: in 2014 matthew mcconaughey’s exploration of extreme weight loss in “dallas buyer’s club” bested leo’s exuberant turn as belfort, and eddie redmayne, for his portrayal of als survivor stephen hawking, snatched oscar gold from the sublime michael keaton. The message is clear: physical pain — not emo­tional or psychological pain — is what wins awards. 
but in times of discomfort, anyone can clench their jaw and furrow their brow — just like i did when play­ing “rampage” — so are leo’s facial expressions in “The revenant” really that impressive? sure, leo looks like he’s suffering for two-and-a-half hours; but bare in mind, he actually is suffering. There’s no creation in the perfor­mance; it’s all reacting and no acting. 
Film critic matt Zoller seitz explores this topic in a recent essay titled “why leo winning an oscar for ‘The revenant’ would be bad for acting.” For Zoller seitz, leo winning “would only ratify the tendency to see act­ing greatness in terms of transformation and misery.” 
co-workers give us a reason to laugh. no one outshines rust and Jacob more than claudia o’doherty as mickey’s overly-chipper roommate, and the relatively unknown Jordan rock delivers some of the show’s best lines as the Tv caterer: “i’m like that black guy in every movie who comes out and gives his white friend perfect advice. but for some reason when i go out for those roles, i never get ‘em.” 
while the relationship at the center of “love” feels honest, it’s fatally complicated by a subplot involving mickey’s drug addiction. critics have praised the show’s focus on addiction, but drugs are hardly the the center­piece of “love,” which spends far more time cracking awkward jokes and stumbling through first dates and workplace melodrama. because of this diversion, worthy and interesting as it is, several of the season’s final mo­ments feel unearned, leaving the show’s main characters in a situation that’s mostly just confusing. The gas station ending, if nothing else, reminds us that the show is in­evitably going places —netflix has already renewed the show for a second season (it took them much longer to re­new “master of none,” a decidedly better show). 
The experience of binge-viewing “love” is perhaps re­flected most clearly in a scene where mickey swallows a whole handful of ambien and spends the rest of the night reevaluating her life. in all seriousness, “love” does, es­pecially in the season’s latter half, leave you a little empty 
— you pop the next episode not because you think it’s a particularly great idea, but because it’s that point in the night and, well, why the hell not.. 
Contact Sam Fentress at sfentres@nd.edu 
it’s hard to look at mcconaughey’s weight loss and redmayne’s physical contortions and not see install­ments in this trend that may culminate with leo’s victory on sunday. as Zoller seitz claims, “[these performances] are mainly about proving one’s devotion to the art of acting by suffering before or during production.” indeed, who else among this year’s acting nominees can claim to have weathered icy waters or eaten uncooked bison? 
but the trouble with leo’s performance in “The revenant” is that on the two occasions he eats uncooked meat he is just feet away from a fire. even more than mcconaughey or redmayne, leo seems to suffer for the sake of suffering. leo has become a parody of the artist who suffers for his craft. 
ultimately, i’m torn. leo didn’t give the year’s best performance — the oscar belongs to matt damon for his work in “The martian.” yet i almost want him to win. as my media industries professor, dr. christine becker, noted: leo may never do another comedy until he wins the coveted oscar. The thought of never seeing leo flex his comedic muscles — like the icy waters leo endured shooting “The revenant,” or like “The revenant” for that matter — is enough to make you shatter your own teeth. at matter — is enough to make you shatter your own teeth. 
The views expressed in this column are thise of the au­thor and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: go after your dreams. embrace change if it will help you eliminate the things that are holding you back. it’s time to fix what hasn’t been working or find something new to pursue. put yourself and your goals first. once you have stabilized your situation, you will be able to help others, but for now, help yourself first. your numbers are 3, 15, 24, 29, 37, 45, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): pace yourself and don’t offer something that is unrealistic. romance is in the stars. be receptive to the help being offered by someone who loves you. you will get a pleasant surprise if you tidy up your personal papers. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): share ideas with someone you feel can complement what you are trying to achieve. your dedication will impress outsiders, but not someone you are close to. be willing to walk away from a situation that is negative. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t believe everything you hear. someone will try to butter you up in order to get something from you. put your energy into self-improvement and a romantic encounter with someone you consider to be an intricate part of your life. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): stick close to home. work on projects that are intriguing. Taking an unusual approach to the way you do things will help you stand out and contribute to your advancement. an unexpected emotional situation must not be allowed to ruin your day. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of affairs of the heart. make a commitment that will lead to an alternative plan that promises to improve an important relationship. change should be put into play. personal opportunities and gains are apparent. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): don’t give in to someone who is using emotional manipulation to get you to do things. be firm and only do what you feel is fair. do something that will encourage you to look your best. Join a gym or update your appearance. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): do your part and you will make headway. a romantic relationship will allow you to explore new possibilities. your appeal will bring you greater popularity and help you change the way people treat you. a window of opportunity is heading your way. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll be sidetracked by what you want to do instead of doing what’s expected of you. it’s in your best interest to take care of your responsibilities if you want to be left alone to focus on your passion. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t let indulgence entice you. Trying to avoid situations that need to be dealt with will only lead to stress. being honest about the way you feel and what you want is the only way to live your dream. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): unexpected changes will change you personally, but if you look beyond your immediate circle, you will discover an opportunity to bring something or someone from your past back into your life. don’t be afraid to be different. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you won’t have any trouble claiming the spotlight. let your charm, grace and imagination help you spark interest in who you are and what you have to offer. hold court and command attention, and you will make progress. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): make sure you have all the pertinent information before you share your opinions. someone will put you in your place if you neglect to give a fair appraisal of what’s happening. if someone asks you to keep a secret, honor their request. 


Birthday Baby: you are a peacekeeper, a charmer and an ambassador of goodwill. you are popular and unique. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NLL highlights yearly trip 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
when a friend and i de­cided to go to denver over christmas break this year, i never thought the best expe­rience we’d have would come from a bunch of guys running around inside a hockey rink. 
running, not skating. 
a bit of background: every year, a friend from back home and i have gone on a hockey trip of sorts. The first year, we went to denver and watched four colorado avalanche games. The next, we met in scottsdale, arizona, to go watch some phoenix coyote games, as well as take in the wonders that are spring Training games. all of these i could devote an entire sports authority to. 
This year, though, we went back to colorado for a week over christmas break. we de­cided to splurge on avalanche tickets once again, but during the off-nights we searched for other, less-expensive alternatives. new year’s night, we found out there was a colorado mammoth game at pepsi center, so we said, “what the heck?” and dropped a whopping $30 on seats in row 5 at a national lacrosse league (nll) game between the mammoth and the georgia swarm. 
it ended up being one of the greatest decisions we made all trip. 
The entire event was in­credibly put together; it was the opening night of the sea­son, so from the cheerleader and mascot introductions through player intros the pyrotechnic, smoke and light displays had the place rock­ing, but i didn’t know what to expect from the game itself. 
it didn’t disappoint. 
as someone who hates watching score after score in sports like basketball, the game itself provided a great balance. as someone who’s grown up watching hockey, i appreciate a sport where scoring is still something to celebrate, so watching the mammoth slowly pull out to a 4-2 lead after one quarter wasn’t too much for me, es­pecially considering how the game flows in box lacrosse. 
see, as opposed to the ver­sion of the game played out­doors, box lacrosse has a shot clock set at 30 seconds. it’s got a very similar feel to an nba game, as the teams have to trade shots back and forth, but as opposed to the nba, i got to appreciate just how much defense matters in box lacrosse. 
see, every time the ball changes possession, both teams make wholesale changes: the team bring­ing the ball up field swaps a defensive unit for an offen­sive one, and the other team swaps an offensive group for an offensive one. as such, there’s always a group of players focused solely on stopping the other’s offensive group. The reward for a hard-fought stop and controlling a loose ball or rebound? a pat on the back and a seat on the bench. defenders rarely con­tribute offensively beyond fast-break opportunities: between the mammoth and swarm combined, defenders scored just two of the teams’ combined 31 goals. 
in an american sports cul­ture that can’t stand seeing a game that produces five or fewer scoring events (see: hockey, soccer and a pitch­ers’ dual in baseball), the game represented a beautiful balance between uninter­rupted flow and scoring. 
The game atmosphere it­self resembles an nba game 
— there’s a live dJ, plenty of chants, interactive activities and other gimmicks to satis­fy someone who has no inter­est in the game whatsoever and simply wants something to do on a weekend night. 
not that the product on the field demands distractions, of course: the fast-paced, high-intensity battles taking place every possession were enough to sway me. 
i never expected to be blown away by an nll game, but before halftime my friend and i were already looking at how much season tickets for a team would be. That’s when we discovered something even more incred­ible: season tickets for a 10­game home schedule in the fifth row are just $200, or $20 per game. considering you’ll pay at least that much for a fifth-row ticket for a single nhl, nba or nFl game, it’s a steal. 
box lacrosse might not get the attention of a big­ger sports league, nor does it fit the profile of a sport on the rise in this country like soccer. 
still, anytime i’m taking a trip somewhere and have a free night, the nll will be on my radar. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsinski@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | souTh carolina 66, mississippi 45 
wilson has 16, no. 3 south carolina tops mississippi 
Associated Press 

oXFord, miss. (ap) — south carolina’s a’ja wilson made every shot she tried on Thursday night. her team­mate alaina coates finished with her 15th double-double of the season. 
Just another night for the gamecocks’ talented post tandem. 
now the program is just one win away from finish­ing the sec regular-season schedule undefeated. 
wilson scored 16 points on 8-of-8 shooting, coates add­ed 11 points and 14 rebounds and no. 3 south carolina cruised past mississippi for the 66-45 win. 
“it was just kind of one of those nights,” wilson said. “we stayed within our sys­tem and our system is get­ting it inside. we just take what the defense gives us and play off each other.” 
south carolina (27-1, 15-0 southeastern conference) has won five straight games since its only loss of the sea­son to top-ranked uconn. 
The gamecocks jumped out to a 34-19 by halftime, holding ole miss to just five points in the second quarter. 
it was another rough night for ole miss in a season full of them. The rebels — who have lost nine straight and 13 of 14 — shot just 14 of 63 
(22.2 percent) from the field. 
“That’s the story of our season right there,” ole miss coach matt insell said. “look at the box score, look at the shooting percentages. we get great shots and we don’t make them.” 
ole miss (10-18, 2-13) made a brief run in the third quarter to pull within 36-29, but south carolina’s bianca cuevas stopped the charge with a pair of free throws and the gamecocks were on their way to the win. 
south carolina shot the ball well, making 23 of 41 
(56.1 percent) from the field, but struggled with 29 turnovers. 
“our offense has been something that’s a work in progress,” said south carolina coach dawn staley. “we took a few steps back tonight, but our defense sustained us all game long.” 
The rebels were led by madinah muhammad’s 20 points. shandricka sessom added 13. 
south carolina contin­ued its undefeated charge through league play thanks to the dominant night from wilson and coates. The gamecocks had a 40-8 scoring advantage in the paint with both players rou­tinely getting open looks. 
“They are a dynamic duo for us,” staley said. “They bail us out a lot. we prob­ably don’t get them the ball enough considering how efficient they are. They’ve done that all season long.” 
Tiffany mitchell added 12 points, four rebounds and three steals for the gamecocks. 
south carolina’s size ad­vantage was also evident on defense. ole miss was usually able to penetrate into the lane, but rarely had open looks around the bas­ket. wilson had five blocked shots and coates had two. 
south carolina only needs to beat lsu at home on sunday to complete its per­
fect run through the  sec  
regular season.  
south  carolina:  The  

gamecocks have won 10 of 12 games against ole miss since dawn staley became the gamecocks’ coach in 2008. ... south carolina had a 40-32 rebounding advantage. 
This was the rebels’ fi­nal home game of the sea­son, but there was no senior night. That’s because ole miss is the only team in the league without a senior.” 

NHL | predaTors 3, blackhawks 1 
Jarnkrok scores in 3rd as Predators top Blackhawks 
Associated Press 

chicago — with pekka rinne in goal, the nashville predators travel quite well. 
rinne made 38 saves and calle Jarnkrok scored with 1:51 remaining, sending the surg­ing predators to a 3-1 victory over the chicago blackhawks on Thursday night. 
“we’re playing some good hockey, we’re competing, we’re getting contributions from a lot of guys,” said mike Fisher, who had two assists. “we’re definitely playing a bet­ter game all around. it’s obvi­ously showing.” 
viktor arvidsson scored in the first and miikka salomaki added an empty-net goal as nashville won for the fourth time in its last five games and extended its point streak to eight in a row. The predators also extended their franchise-record road point streak to 10 games. 
“we’re gaining some confi­dence all the time,” rinne said. 
it was a lousy ending to a big night for chicago, which bolstered its shot for a second straight stanley cup title by reacquiring forward andrew ladd in a trade with winnipeg announced right before the game. 
“it’s a great acquisition,” blackhawks coach Joel Quenneville said. “There’s a lot of familiarity. i’m sure his old teammates are pretty ex­cited in a lot of ways. he brings the intangibles that you look for. he knows his way around our team. i’m sure he’s excited to come to chicago as well.” 
brent seabrook scored for the blackhawks, who have lost two in a row and five of seven. corey crawford had 29 saves. 
The game was tied at 1 be­fore Jarnkrok one-timed a slick pass from Fisher over crawford’s right shoulder for his 12th goal. it was Jarnkrok’s first point since he scored two goals in a 5-0 win at Florida at Feb. 13, stopping a five-game drought for the third-year center. 
salomaki tacked on his fourth goal 48 seconds later, prompting some of the fans to begin heading for the exits. 
“The third period was our smartest period and our best period, just defensively and methodically taking care of the minutes and eventu­ally we were able to chip one in,” nashville coach peter laviolette said. 
The predators played with­out all-star defenseman shea weber for the second straight game. weber, who has 15 goals and 21 assists, is day to day with a lower-body injury. 
but nashville still managed its second win in five games this season against chicago. The predators were eliminated by the blackhawks in the first round of the playoffs last year. 


The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame travels to take on two ACC foes 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to hit the road this weekend as it will take on both boston college and syracuse. The match against boston college (5-4, 0-2) will take place at 5 p.m. Friday and the syracuse (7-1, 1-1) match will be held at 11 
a.m. sunday. 
The irish (7-3, 2-0) are coming off of wins against indiana and louisville at home last weekend and won both contests 6-1. last saturday, the irish bounced the hoosiers in singles play as junior Jane Fennelly, junior mary closs, sopho­more brooke broda, senior Quinn gleason and junior monica robinson all won their matches. robinson and broda both lost the first set of their matches before coming back to win the next two. Fennelly won her first set before losing the second, but she won the decisive third set 6-3. The lone irish loss was sopho­more allison miller, who came up short in a close 2-6, 7-6, 10-8 contest. in doubles, gleason/robinson and Fennelly/miller came out on top in their matches. 

The next day, in a con­ference matchup against louisville, notre dame once again set the tone in doubles play. The irish swept the doubles compe­tition and miller, gleason, robinson, broda, and closs were all victorious in straight sets to end a domi­nant weekend. 
head coach Jay louderback said his team’s confidence grows with each match. 
“i think the confidence we have gained as the year has progressed shows up in our three set wins,” louderback said. “our doubles has im­proved significantly and it makes a big difference go­ing into the singles.” 
as notre dame’s con­ference schedule starts to pick up, the irish will face multiple raked teams. louderback said he believes the upcoming matches will be good competition for his team and he wants them to take advantage of it. 
“we are getting down to our conference matches,” louderback said. “each one brings a ranked team which helps put us in position to do well in the post season.” 
louderback believes both boston college and syracuse will both be strong competition. he said his team is ready to take on syracuse and will uses the notre dame’s past experi­ence with boston college as a template for what he ex­pects to see Friday. 
“syracuse is having a great start to their season with five new players in their lineup so we will be seeing the new players for the first time,” he said. “we always have a great match with [boston college] and this year will be no exception.” 
louderback believes the no. 1 singles match will be crucial in both matches, and believes his top singles player, gleason, is up to the task. 
“both teams are very good at no. 1 singles so Quinn will really be tested in both matches,” louderback said. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 


MEN’S TENNIS 

nd eyes key win versus osu 

By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
coming off a weekend split against kentucky and western michigan, notre dame looks to grab a signa­ture win sunday afternoon, as it faces off against one of the best teams in the nation: ohio state. 
The buckeyes (12-1), the no. 3 team in the nation is on a hot streak, with two wins last weekend against ranked competition in the form of Texas a&m and Florida. notre dame head coach ryan sachire recognizes ohio state’s tennis program for what it has accomplished, but stated that his irish (6-5) will be more than up for the challenge of trying to beat them. 
“[ohio state’s] obviously a really good team,” sachire said. “we play them every year and so we’re very fa­miliar with them and have a tremendous amount of re­spect for their players and coaches. They do have a great program, but we have great players as well, so i expect a great match and for us to go in and play well”. 
Though notre dame is 4-1 in its last five matches, the irish are considered the underdog in this matchup. however, as its 6-1 thrash­ing of michigan a two weeks ago showed, the team has the skill and capability to compete well with anyone in the country. sachire said the key for his team is for the players to play within them­selves with a high level of confidence and poise in key situations. 

“a big key for us is just having confidence in what we do,” sachire said. “hold serve, and being aggressive in going for our shots, but also knowing that we jut have to do what we need to do. we respect [ohio state] and what they do, but we also need to respect ourselves and have a high degree of confidence heading into the match”. 
and though the irish have enjoyed success recently, their one loss came last week­end at the hands of kentucky by the score of 4-0. sachire said the loss to kentucky is the type of performance he hopes to see less of in the future. 
“we played a very poor match against kentucky … hopefully a one match blip,” sachire said. “[we] didn’t have a great week of prac­tice leading up to it — guys weren’t hitting the ball well and i think it messed with their psyche a bit, but we have to be more resilient than that. we’re having a great week of practice and that should translate into a lot of confidence heading into our match on sunday.” 
The irish look to top the buckeyes on sunday at noon at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu 


MEN’S GOLF 

ND prepares for National Invitational Tournament 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
This weekend notre dame will head to Tucson, arizona to compete in the national invitational Tournament. with three freshman in the starting five, irish head coach James kubinski is looking to build off of the young team’s success from its previous matches, es­pecially notre dame’s strong showing at its last competi­tion, the yestingsmeier match play in dade city, Florida at the beginning of February. 
“we’re looking to use the momentum gained from win­ning two of three in Florida our last time out and continue to apply the lessons learned up to this point,”  kubinski said. 
kubinski noted the unfamil­iar terrain will be difficult for the team, but he is confident in his team’s preparation for the match and its ability to adapt and perform. 
“The environment, playing in arizona, is fairly unique for us. our team hasn’t played at [university of arizona] in a few years,” kubinski said. 

The team was able to famil­iarize themselves with the un­usual conditions on a trip to arizona last weekend, howev­er, and kubinski believes the advance scouting will make a difference for his players. 
“getting out to arizona for practice last weekend was beneficial, seeing how the ball flies and how the moun­tains and valleys influence putts,” kubinski said. “our guys should now have a jump on making the necessary adjustments.” 
This tournament is the be­ginning of an important part of the season for the irish; kubinski said the next several weeks will be critical for the irish. 
“we’re kicking off a great stretch of our season this week in Tucson,” kubinski said, “over the next three weeks, we will play several more head­to-heads than we did all [of the] fall season. This oppor­tunity is not lost on our team. 
it all starts this week with [the university of arizona’s] event.” 
despite an unfamiliar en­vironment and the pressure of improving, kubinski feels the depth of his team will be a significant weapon in Tucson and in the weeks to come. 
“what makes us a team to watch in the weeks and months ahead is that we can get significant contributions from our entire starting line­up,” kubinski said, “without a senior starter, our juniors will provide some leadership but, really, all five have the ability to contribute in a big way. we will rely on our preparation and the momentum we start­ed at the match play in Florida to keep moving forward in a good way.” 
The  national invitational Tournament will begin sunday and continue through to Tuesday as the irish contin­ue their season in arizona. 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 

NBA | warriors  130, magic 114 
curry breaks record in win 
Associated Press 
orlando, Fla.  — stephen curry scored 51 points and set an nba record with a 3-point­er in his 128th consecutive game as the golden state warriors beat the orlando magic 130-114 on Thursday night. 
a night after scoring 42 in a six-point victory at miami, curry made 20 of 27 shots from the field, including 10 3-pointers. The warriors pulled away in the closing minutes of the third quarter, with curry banking in a 44­foot shot at the buzzer for a 99-91 lead. 
The reigning mvp topped 50 points for the third time this season, the first player to do it that many times since lebron James and dwyane wade in 2008-09. 
That wasn’t his only high­light of the night. 
curry surpassed kyle korver’s mark of 127 straight games with a 3, which he tied while making six 3s at miami on wednesday night. 

“For steph, it’s just like making a basket in 127 games. it doesn’t matter that it’s a 3. That is like a layup to him. it’s not surprising at all,” warriors coach steve kerr said before the game. 
including the postseason, curry has made 3s in 149 straight games, also a record. 
“i have a hard time seeing how that streak is ever going to end. it would have to be kind of a fluke night,” orlando coach scott skiles said. 
“The way he makes them is totally different from kyle,” skiles added. “kyle is sprint­ing off screens and it’s possi­ble you could switch out and maybe take some away from him, whereas steph, there are so many of them off the dribble and from 30 feet and fading away. ... he’d just have to be off that night, and that certainly doesn’t happen very often.” 
The warriors improved to 52-5, the best 57-game start in league history. 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


“i think our captains have 

W Lacrosse 
done such a wonderful job of conTinued From page 16 
enjoying the moment in our 
first three games,” halfpenny important,” she said. “The tran-said. “every second you can see sition’s going to be massive, and us embracing the moment, em-winning that ground ball war, bracing the game. They’re play­that’s something that’s been ing 60 minutes for exactly what huge in our last three wins, they are. They’re not taking it then focusing on our off-ball lightly or taking advantage of movement which is creating a the time they have together. lot of opportunities for our at-The pure exhaustion at the end tack, those will all be massive of the game is very evident, be-keys to beating colorado.” cause not only are they playing 
The irish offense, led by ju-really hard, but they’re play­nior attack cortney Fortunato, ing with such great passion who leads the nation in points, and they’re playing with their will be attempting to put hearts out there together. so the ball past first-team all-the credit goes to the captains mpsF junior goalkeeper paige who are putting the effort and soenksen, who had a .489 save emotion into the moment and percentage last year. halfpenny the games which is making singled out soenksen as a key those games so exciting to lead part of the buffaloes team. up to. 
“another big focus is their “That said, they’re also en-goalkeeper, they have a joying it when they’re supposed very very good goalkeeper,” to enjoy it, and then shutting 
Friday, we were up two goals the line. it’s gone by quick, so halfpenny said. “she’s a strong that off, moving on and reset-
Hockey 

on a very good hockey team, hopefully we make the most goalie. i think she finished last ting for the next opponent and 
conTinued From page 16 

so we have to take the posi-of it.” 
year with something around a again getting back to focusing tives from that. but you can’t in addition to Fogarty, the 
48 or 49 percent save percent-on ourselves and getting bet-Jackson, the trick for the irish dwell on it too much, you gotta other seniors to be honored 
age, which is very good, espe-ter,” halfpenny said. “i think this weekend will be putting look forward. we got two huge on saturday will include for­
cially with the competition that that that’s the biggest takeaway. their first sweep of the season games coming up. There’s still wards mario lucia, Thomas 
we’re playing against. she’s a That’s what’s a big difference-behind them and instead fo-some standings to be figured dipauli and sam herr, defen­
nice tall lefty that plays a dif-maker for the team this year: cusing on what lies ahead. out too, so bu’s really our only seman andy ryan and goal­
ferent style than we’re used to their maturity and understand­“They’ve been good [af-focus right now.” tender nick stasack. 
playing against every day. a lot ing the road ahead has been ter the losses],” Jackson said. beyond the two games a single point against the 
of credit to her and what she’s massive, but taking advan­“They’ve been good in prac-against boston university and Terriers over the weekend will 
done so far in getting this pro-tage of these victories, even if tice. it’s just like after we lost the implications those games clinch fourth place for notre 
gram some attention after they they’re little, like a ground ball to boston college. you just have for playoff positioning, dame, meaning all they need 
knocked denver off in their pickup or a save or even just hope their confidence isn’t saturday night’s game will be is a win or a tie in either game 
season-opening win.” forcing the team to throw the affected too much, but we go senior night for notre dame, to achieve one of their season 
notre dame (3-0, 1-0 acc) ball out of bounds, they are re-into another game with a team the last regular season game goals and earn a bye in the 
comes into the game after ally living in the moment right that’s the same caliber.” the six irish seniors will play conference tournament. 
a comfortable 14-4 victory now, so i think that being able senior captain center steven together at compton Family “at the beginning of the 
over no. 14 boston college. to sustain that is the biggest key Fogarty, who had a goal and an ice arena. year, one of our goals was to 
halfpenny credited her team right now.” assist in the two games against “it’s a pretty special night,” get a bye first round,” Fogarty 
captains, graduate student de-The game will begin at 7 p.m. providence a week ago, reiter-Fogarty said. “i remember my said. “we’ve worked hard all 
fender and Tewaaraton award tonight at loftus sports center. ated this on wednesday. senior night in high school. year to put ourselves in posi­
finalist barbara sullivan, senior notre dame will also be in ac­“i think we’ve responded Just being with your best tion to do that.” 
defender stephanie peragallo tion sunday at noon when it pretty well,” Fogarty said. friends that you’ve grown up The irish close out their 
and senior midfielders brie hosts california. “obviously any time you get playing with, having your regular season looking to get 
custis and stephanie Toy, for swept it’s not fun, and it was a family there is pretty cool. back on track against boston 
instilling a winning culture in Contact Daniel O’Boyle at long ride home. but at the same we’ve been here for four years university. The puck drops at 
the team. doboyle1@nd.edu time, you have to look at the now. it’s been some of the best compton Family ice arena at positives from last weekend. i years of our lives. it’s gonna 7:35 p.m. Friday and at 7:05 thought we responded pretty be pretty special on saturday. p.m. saturday. well on saturday. i thought i remember like it was yester­we dominated the majority of day when we were freshmen Contact Hunter McDaniel at the game. at the same time on seeing the seniors go down hmcdani1@nd.edu 





M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
five assists and six rebounds. brey praised Jackson’s perfor­mance and ability to score in key situations. 
“i thought he was really poised,” brey said. “he defend­ed no matter what was going on offensively, especially in the first half. and it’s only a matter of time. i thought we did a bet­ter job of ball screening for him and putting him in some areas where he could drive it. but he sensed his team needed it and he delivered.” 
The contest against the seminoles wraps up a three-game road stretch for the irish, and the team has been away from south bend since Tuesday night. after saturday, however, notre dame will finish the sea­son with two games at home against no. 12 miami and north carolina state to end the regu­lar season. brey said the long stretch of road games can be difficult to manage. 
“it’s interesting how this league is a little different from the big east,” brey said. “you have amazing swings, [both] home [and] road. a lot of teams will have four days of prep, and the opponent they are playing maybe only has one day. That seems to come up a little bit. of course, Florida state plays Thursday night in durham, and we’ll be in Tallahassee.” 

brey also said being on the road during the beginning of midterms week presents a chal­lenge for the team, but praised his team’s — particularly the freshmen’s — ability to plan ahead. 
“our academic advisor pat hums will travel with us on [this] stretch if we have to proc­tor any exams,” brey said. “we’ll do some study hall sessions on the road. luckily my three freshman are amazingly orga­nized students and gifted stu­dents. They have hit the ground running right in summer school, so i’m very pleased with them handling their business.” 
notre dame tips off against Florida state on saturday at 4 
p.m. at the donald l. Tucker center. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
“we’ve got to take better care of the ball, but i think we can play better.” 
“after Florida state i would have said we were headed in the right direction, but i think we took a step backwards today.” 
in the third quarter, the irish were able to pull away, as the Tigers made only one of their first 13 shots in the quarter, giving the irish a 56­27 lead, before a clemson 3-pointer made the score 56-30 at the end of the quarter. mcgraw, however, said she didn’t believe her defense was responsible for shutting the Tigers down. 
“i think they just missed shots, i don’t think we did anything dif­ferently,” mcgraw said. “we were switching up man and zone, we played a little more man, but i don’t think it was that, i think they just missed shots.” 
during the fourth quarter, the irish bench players were able to get plenty of minutes as sophomore forward brianna Turner, junior guard lindsay allen and gradu­ate student guard madison cable all sat out. The Tigers were able to take advantage, scoring 22 points in the quarter and closing the gap to 19. 
Freshman guard arike ogunbowale led the irish in scor­ing, with 16 points, while Turner scored 14 points on 6-of-7 shoot­ing and added eight rebounds. mcgraw said she was pleased with both players, but would have hoped to see more opportunities for Turner. 
“i thought we did some re­ally good things, but i thought we could have got [Turner] the ball more. seven shots just isn’t really enough,” mcgraw said “i know she didn’t play a lot but i think we can get her the ball a little bit more. arike continues to give us great offense coming off the bench, we need that scoring punch, i thought we needed it really badly today. i would have liked to have finished the game a little bit stronger, but overall i thought we did some good things, got to the free throw line made our free throws. but it was a tough game coming off of Florida state.” 
The victory ensured the irish will take the top seed in the acc tour­nament next month, as well as at least a share of the regular season title with louisville. The irish have a chance to make that an outright title when they host boston college on saturday, and mcgraw said she would not be satisfied with only a share of the title. 
“i’m not interested in sharing,” she said. “we want to win it out­right, so we’ve got to get ready and play a lot better than we did tonight to win it.” 
mcgraw said her focus is already on saturday and the eagles, who the irish beat 63-50 in chestnut hill last month. 
“we’ve got to be ready for [boston college],” mcgraw said. “They’re a good team, they gave us a great game up there, so we’ve got to re­ally get back, get intense and get focused.” 
Turner echoed mcgraw’s senti­ment, and said freshman center mariella Fasoula could be a key part of boston college’s offense. 
“like coach said, it was kind of a really tough game last time we were up there,” Turner said. “They have a really good post player and i think the key to our success will be to shut her down.” 
notre dame’s three seniors, madison cable, hannah huffman and michaela mabrey, will all be honored before the game. Tip-off will be at purcell pavilion at 1 p.m. saturday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 



ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 71, clemson 52 
Notre Dame clinches share of ACC title in win 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame clinched the no. 1 seed for the acc tournament and a share of the regular season conference title with its 71-52 vic­tory over clemson last night. 
The irish took the lead after only seven seconds, with a three-point­er from freshman guard michaela mabrey, and did not relinquish it for the rest of the game. however, the victory over the acc’s last-placed team was not quite as comfortable as hoped. The irish led only 15-14 with just over a minute left in the first quarter, before extending that lead to 21-14 by the end of the quar­ter. in the second quarter, the irish continued to widen the lead, but could not quite put the Tigers com­pletely out of reach, taking a 40­25 lead into the break. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said she felt the team’s first half  performance left some room for improvement. 
“i don’t think we came out ex­tremely well, especially not defen­sively, and turning the ball over 11 times in the first half, that was re­ally disappointing,” mcgraw said. 
see w bball PAGE 15 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

irish travel to take on seminoles 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
Following a bounce-back win against wake Forest, no. 23 notre dame will stay on the road to face Florida state this saturday. 
with the victory over the demon deacons, the irish (19­8, 10-5 acc) sit tied for fourth place in the conference as it chases a double-bye in the acc tournament. The seminoles (16-12, 6-10), meanwhile, are not in contention for a bye but continue to fight for a spot in the ncaa tournament. irish head coach mike brey said the seminoles are still a dangerous team as they fight for a postsea­son berth. 
“i know they’ve got young guards,” brey said. “They’re fighting for their ncaa tourna­ment life. They are in a tough stretch right now — they’ve [had] to play at duke. 
“That’s been a tough place,” he said. “we’ve played a great game there two years ago, went right down to the wire. i think they hit a shot with about 10 seconds left to beat us there. 

but certainly it’ll be an impor­tant game for them as far as the ncaa, but it’s important game for us as far as positioning.” 
Florida state is led by fresh­man guards malik beasley and dwayne bacon. both play­ers average over 15 points per game. sophomore guard Xavier rathan-mayes also averages over 11 points per game to give the seminoles three solid scor­ers from the guard position. 
The seminoles are currently on a five-game losing streak af­ter winning four in a row start­ing the end of January. They also boast wins over virginia and clemson. 
as the irish make a run at the double-bye, they will con­tinue to rely on captains senior forward Zach auguste and ju­nior guard demetrius Jackson. auguste had 18 points and 12 rebounds in notre dame’s 69-58 win over wake Forest. auguste pulled down his 700th career rebound in the contest and now has a double-double in 14 games this year. Jackson, on the other hand, had 15 points, 
see m bball PAGE 15 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

nd prepares for home matchups 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 6 notre dame will hope to continue its strong start to the season tonight, when the irish host colorado. 
The buffaloes (2-0) have opened their season with two wins for the first time in the three-year history of the pro­gram, after beating denver 11­10 and Fresno state 18-4, and are currently receiving votes in the national polls. irish head coach christine halfpenny said she was very impressed by the colorado program. 
“They’re a really impressive team,” halfpenny said. “a three­year-old program, sound head coach, a solid coaching staff. They’re playing in a conference that sent two to the ncaa tour­nament last year in stanford and usc, so they haven’t shied away from competition. even out of conference they’ve been playing highly-rated teams, northwestern being one of them, and they’ve just steadily been improving. They’ve just steadily been moving in the right direction. They’re fast, they’re scrappy, lots of emotion, they have a lot of great emotion and they’re in the hunt to con­tinue to improve. 
“They’re a solid 1v1 team, there’s a couple of stars on the team in [junior attack/mid­fielder cali castagnola] and [sophomore midfielder darby kiernan], a strong midfielder in [junior marie moore] that we’ve been scouting out and getting aware of, but for us we have a couple of keys,” she said. “we’re looking to attack, continuing to play our game is important and then the ground ball battle is going to be really important against a team that’s so scrappy and has nice speed. and then playing our game on offense and making sure we focus on one-another, our high-octane and off-ball movement is going to be a big key to our success tomorrow. 
“i think that using our speed and our depth is going to be 
see w lacrosse PAGE 14  
HOCKEY 

Seniors lead team into final regular-season games 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame will close out its regular season with a pair of games against boston university and playoff implica­tions on the line. 
The no. 10 irish (18-7-7, 14-4­2 hockey east), who currently sit in third place in the confer­ence standings, will host the no. 9 Terriers (18-9-5, 11-5-4) at compton Family ice arena on Friday and saturday nights before turning their attention to the postseason. 
Though the team lost both of its games last weekend at defending-national champion no. 5 providence, the irish could still finish as high as first in hockey east if they finish strongly. a poor showing this weekend, however, could drop them to fifth and out of the safety of a first-round bye in the conference tournament, which starts next weekend. 
according to head coach Jeff 
see hockey PAGE 14 






