ThE INdEPENdENT TO uNcOVER NEWSPAPER SERVINg ThE TRuTh NOTRE dAME ANd ANd REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT AccuRATELy 

VOLuME 50, ISSuE 114 | MONDAY, APRIL  4, 2016 | NdSMcOBSERVER.cOM 
Class of 2020 statistics released 
Vice president of admissions breaks down key attributes of incoming class 



ND law student dies 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online April 1. 
Third-year law student Mosupatsela Kar V. Moleah died Thursday night in Philadelphia, according to an email sent to stu­dents Friday afternoon from Vice President of Student Affairs Erin hoffmann harding. 
Moleah had been studying in the law school’s Washington, d.c., program this semester but previously lived in the Fischer O’hara grace student commu­nity, according to the email. 
hoffmann harding said in the email that a date for a memo­rial Mass had not yet been set but would be announced in the coming days. 
“We realize that many of you may have been impacted by Kar’s death,” she said. “The university counseling center (574-631­7336) and campus Ministry (574-631-8011) are both avail­able to offer their support to you and other members of our com­munity. Please know that you can contact these offices even if you are away from campus. A campus memorial mass will be announced and held soon, with details shared as they become available.” 

Nd, SMc students injured in crash 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
News Editor 
A Notre dame junior and a Saint Mary’s junior were taken to Memorial hospital after a car accident on u.S. 12 in Niles, Michigan, on Saturday night. 
The hospital confirmed both students were still in critical con­dition Sunday afternoon. 
The car was heading east on a bridge over the St. Joseph River when the driver lost control and spun across the center line, where it was struck by a westbound car, Michigan State Trooper Jim Mcgaffigan said. 
Both students were en­trapped in the car with injuries, Mcgaffigan said. While emer­gencyworkers were attemptingto extricate the passengers, another eastbound vehicle struck a fire truck protecting the scene, which was pushed into the car with the 
see cRASh PAGE 4 


SMC conference examines diversity and leadership 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
News Writer 

In response to Saint Mary’s college’s selection of “community” as their core value this year, the Saint Mary’s Student diversity Board has chosen the theme for their 11th annual diverse Students’ Leadership conference (dSLc) accord­ingly, molding the confer­ence around the idea of “unity in community.” The conference will take place today and tomorrow, April 4 and April 5. 
Senior Angela Bukur, vice president and confer­ence chair of the Student diversity Board, said she hopes this year’s attendees will leave the conference with a new perspective on diversity. 
“I hope students take away something that they didn’t know from before,” Bukur said. “That they take a perspective in a different way, meet a lot of people and become leaders in their own communities, as well as realize that diversity is important.” 
Bukur said the fact that the conference is entirely student-run makes it more rewarding for students. 
see dSLc PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com What is your favorite planet other than Earth and why? 
P.O. Box 779, Notre dame, IN 46556 024 South dining hall, Notre dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Chris Jarocki
 Margaret hynds 
junior
Managing Editor  Business Manager 
                  Kayla Mullen                      cristina gutierrez 
Sorin college 
Asst. Managing Editor: Alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

“Saturn, because the rings are 
Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
pretty.” 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire Radler Sports Editor: Marek Mazurek 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graham Johnson 
Graphics Editor: Susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei cao 
junior 
Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper 
Sorin college 
Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 

“Jupiter, because it is the most ‘well endowed.’” 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Harrison Schurr 
Editor-in-Chief 
junior
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Sorin college 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
“Pluto, because people aren’t 
Assistant Managing Editors 
always nice to Pluto and we 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
should be nicer to it.” 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 


Sarah Christie 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla West hall 
“Saturn, because the rings make it unique.” 
Amy Eginton 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla West hall 
“Mercury, because it is closest to the sun.” 
Mary Lessard 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla West hall 
“Mars, because I like Matt damon and ‘The Martian’ was a good movie.” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

“For the Planet and 4th Annual Poetry Tax Assistance Easter 1916: The Irish “Agency, Persons, 
Systems & Web Administrators 

the Poor” Slam Program Rebellion and Kant” 
(574) 631-8839 

Campus-Wide Snite Museum Geddes Hall Hesburgh Library McKenna Hall Policies 6 p.m. 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 5:30 p.m. 8 a.m. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 

On development goals Competitive poetry Tax returns prepared Guided tour of Special Philosophers discuss 
in print and online by the students of the university of Notre 

and Laudato Si’. judged by audience. without appointment. Collections exhibit Kant’s works. 
dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s college.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 

“The End of Human Memorial Mass Christ for the Curious Mindful Meditation Women’s Tennis vs. 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 

Dignity” Basilica of the Sacred Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse Clemson 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the McKenna Hall Heart Center Center Eck Tennis Pavillion majority of the Editor-in-chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
7 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7p.m.-8:00 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 
Managing Editors and department editors. commentaries, 

Discussed by In memory of law Come discuss the Open to faculty, staff The Irish take on the 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. philosophers. student Kar Moleah. resurrection. and students. Tigers. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Saint Mary’s RHA hosts weekend 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 
Post Office Information The Observer (uSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 

of events for younger siblings 
semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South dining hall 

Notre dame, IN 46556-0779 co-chair of the event, said the annu-they can appreciate this beautiful 
Periodical postage paid at Notre dame and additional mailing offices By MARTA BROWN POSTMASTER 

News Writer al event helps bring students’ fami-campus and maybe become a part of 
Send address corrections to: The Observer 

lies into the college community. it when they’re older.” 
P.O. Box 779 

024 South dining hall Over the weekend, Saint Mary’s “The reason we have Little Sibs Julia Veome, also a first year, spent 
Notre dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 

Residence hall Association (RhA) Weekend is so that all of our younger time with her younger sister during 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 

hosted Little Siblings Weekend — an siblings or family friends are given Little Siblings weekend. opportunity for the younger siblings the chance to experience what Saint “I’m the oldest so my siblings of Saint Mary’s students to par-Mary’s is like,” she said. “It’s a great haven’t been around the college ticipate in activities and to become chance to show off our campus and scene too much,” Veome said. “My more integrated in the Saint Mary’s have a great time with our sibs while sister stayed with me and she loved it 

News Sports 

Selena Ponio Ben Padanilam community. doing so.” because she got to feel grown up and courtney Becker Rachel O’grady 
The weekend included an array of First year Molly O’Neill said she hang out with some of my friends. 
Lucas Masin-Moyer 

Olympics themed events, both on enjoyed spending time with her two Sleeping in the dorms seemed cool 
Graphics Scene 

and off campus. Beginning with an younger cousins in kindergarten, to her and was fun for me.” 
Lauren Weldon Jimmy Kemper 

Opening ceremony on Friday, at-Mara and Fiona. For the past four years, senior 
Photo Viewpoint 

tendees took pictures in a photo “I loved everything they had Bridget Enright’s younger siblings 
grace Tourville claire Radler 

booth and participated in Olympics-planned for us, especially the bus have participated in Little Siblings themed games and crafts. On that went to the bowling alley and Weekend. Saturday, students were able to take the ice skating rink,” O’Neill said. “It’s always been a lot of fun shar-
Corrections 

their siblings off campus to Strikes “It was nice to see how my cousins ing Saint Mary’s with them and let-
The Observer regards itself as & Spares, a local bowling alley that would get excited over the small-ting them get a glimpse of the college a professional publication and 
also has facilities for mini golf, bum-est things, especially staying in the experience,” Enright said. “I have strives for the highest standards 
per cars and arcade games. As other dorm and eating in the cafeteria. six younger siblings, so it’s always a 
of journalism at all times. We do, 

options, attendees could skate at the They loved every second and repeat-blast when we’re all together. It’s my 
however, recognize that we will make 

compton Ice Arena and throughout edly said how happy they were, and favorite weekend of the school year.” 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 

the weekend, RhA hosted crafts, how they couldn’t wait to tell their 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so games and movies on campus. friends. Contact Marta Brown at 
we can correct our error. Bridget McKinnon, who served as a “Even though they’re young, I hope mbrown04@saintmary’s.edu 


Series advocates service 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
News Writer 
This week’s Justice Friday series focused on inform­ing students about the St. Joseph chapter of Rebuilding Together, a national non-profit organization whose mission is to help revitalize houses of low-income, elderly and dis­abled homeowners. Its focus was on St. Joseph county’s need for the program and how Saint Mary’s students can be­come involved in Rebuilding Together. 
The talk was led by the stu­dent director of the Saint Mary’s Office of civil and Social Engagement (OcSE), junior Maggie carswell, and a student worker for OcSE, ju­nior Alyssia Parrett. 
carswell said, according to the national poverty guide­lines, 16.7 percent of South Bend inhabitants fall below the poverty level and 7.5 per­cent have an income below 50 percent of the poverty level in South Bend. 
carswell said this is an issue because oftentimes families have to give up basic survival necessities such as healthcare, transportation or proper home care. 
“A family of four falling be­low the poverty line is mak­ing $18,000 a year,” carswell said. “For a single adult to meet the survival guidelines in Saint Joseph county, they would need $18,000 … a fam­ily of four would need around $42,000 just to get by in Saint Joseph county.” 
According to Parrett, 22 per­cent of married social security recipients and 47 percent of single social security recipi­ents are dependent on social security for 90 percent of their income. 
“Oftentimes, the elderly run out of social security by the end of the month,” said Parrett. “They start neglecting some of their basic expenses including housing, you see that they live in unsafe houses which leaves a big risk for injury.” 
“Rebuilding Together be­lieves that everyone deserves to live in a safe, healthy home,” carswell said. 
carswell explained that the organization’s volunteers help with housing repairs free of charge such as lawn clean up, painting, and gardening, while experts help with elec­trical and mechanical work. 
Parrett said homeowner se­lection is done in January. In order to apply, the applicants must live in the targeted proj­ect area, own a single-family owner-occupied unit, be the primary residents, have the qualifying income according to federal poverty guidelines and be up to date on property taxes. Priority selection is giv­en to veterans, the disabled and the elderly. 
The program came to South 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
Joseph county in 1989 and since then 40,000 volunteers have helped improve 866 houses. 
“In 2015 alone the volunteers helped 19 homes, repaired 16 roofs and restored 7 furnaces in the Olive Street-Lincoln way area over two weekends in April,” carswell said. 
Last year, Saint Mary’s brought around 80 volunteers that tended to 4 homes in the community. 
“A sweet old lady we helped last year kept saying, ‘girl power’ because it was all Saint Mary’s students helping with her house,” carswell said. “[She] was so thankful and said she was going to sleep in her car that night so she could wake up and see her new house with the sunrise. 
“Every year it’s different sto­ries. It not only transforms their lives but it transforms their homes and it really trans­forms our community as well,” carswell said. “We get to see our hands and how they help the community. It contributes to part of our catholic mission of service to others.” 
Rebuilding Together takes place on April 16 and lasts from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Students can contact the director of OcSE, Erika Buhring, to sign up for Rebuilding Together. Food and transportation will be provided. 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

group performs music from Renaissance era 
By WEI LIN 
Senior News Writer 
church musicians, faculty of music programs and con­certgoers gathered Sunday afternoon at the deBartolo Performing Arts center (dPAc) to listen to the Tallis Scholars perform various works of sacred a cappel­la music composed in the Renaissance era or style. 
According to its website, the Tallis Scholars is a British group comprised of 10 sing­ers and at least two singers in each voice, all led by director Peter Phillips. They have per­formed at numerous venues, from cathedrals to concert halls, on every continent ex­cept for Antarctica. 
during their two-hour con­cert, they performed works by various composers including William Byrd, John Tavener, Richard davy, Thomas Tallis and Alfonso Ferrabosco. The music ranged in style and length, from single motets to the completed collection of “Western Wind” mass parts set by Tavener, as well as vari­ations of “Salve Regina” and “Lamentations.” 
Sean Martin, assistant di­rector of programming and en­gagement for dPAc, described the group as the preeminent experts on Renaissance po­lyphony and had advocated to invite them to perform at Notre dame. 
“ ... They are amazing mu­sicians, amazing interpreters of early music, and I think the best group in the world,” he said. 
Regarding the logistics of bringing them here, Martin said the planning process be­gan during the fall of 2014. The executive director of dPAc is expected to curate an entire season a year in advance and the planning process is depen­dent on the nature of certain artists and groups, he said. 
“[For] a group that is in­ternational, like the Tallis Scholars, ... their agent has to put together a tour so they need to work far in advance to see the routing to make sure a tour of the [u.S.] works,” he said. 
Bringing artists to the uni­versity requires a substantial amount of funding, Martin said, and while the Office of the Provost provides dPAc with a budget each year, they still look for co-sponsors to shoulder some of the costs. The Tallis Scholars con­cert was part of the Marjorie O’Malley Sacred Music Series and was partially funded by the series’ endowment. The sacred music program at Notre dame and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies were co-sponsors, as well, and provided additional financial aid, Martin said. 

In addition to the concert, the Tallis Scholars offered to rehearse with members of the sacred music program at Notre dame and to answer some of the questions people had about their music and performances, Martin said. 
“We hope to learn a lot more about the singers, about the group, about their practicing techniques, about how a pro­fessional touring ensemble like this functions,” he said. “It’s going to be invaluable for the students who are going to participate.” 
The singers arrive to any giv­en rehearsal knowing the mu­sic so they are not working on learning notes, and, instead, are working on interpretation, line and ensemble, Martin said. Since many of the stu­dents in the sacred music pro­gram aspire to be conductors or choir directors, they will be able to learn and develop their skills under the instruction of Phillips, who started the en­semble in 1973, he said. 
Senior voice and computer science major camilla Tassi rehearsed with the ensemble. The Tallis Scholars sat inter­spersed among the students and sang five pieces with them, she said. 
“I think what was obviously incredible was singing right next to a Tallis Scholar,” she said. 
The singers and Phillips held an informal question­and-answer session with the students during the workshop, Tassi said. The students asked questions ranging from sound quality and the use of vibrato to the comparison between European and American cho­ral settings, she said. 
Martin said he believes bringing the Tallis Scholars to Notre dame was an invaluable experience. 
“Nearly every choir on cam­pus ... sings music written by Thomas Tallis or Renaissance polyphonies, ... so to hear the best group in the world sing Renaissance polyphony, think, is the least we can give our students,” he said. 
“ ... It’s really important — and we do this with a lot of our artists — to engage with students or the community beyond the performance in some manner so that the op­portunity for students goes deeper than just listening to some performance.” 
Contact Wei Lin at  wlin4@nd.edu 




DSLC 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
“It helps start dialogue,” she said. “It helps students to attend events and talk about things they normally wouldn’t.” 
Bukur said dSLc’s mis­sion is to provide awareness of diversity by educating and uniting the Saint Mary’s community. 
“It’s such a broad topic — you can’t get it all,” she said. “We have tried to bring to­gether different aspects of diversity — different parts of religion, sexuality, race and social class.” 
The conference will tackle these aspects through seven different sessions in which faculty will lead discussions about diversity issues in their professions, Bukur said. 
Senior cinthya Benitez, a Student diversity Board member, invited not only students to attend the con­ference, but faculty and staff, as well. 
“Faculty and staff are also invited to learn about topics students are interested in,” Benitez said. “It brings the Saint Mary’s community to­gether and builds unity, as our logo says.” 
There will also be three keynote speakers at the event: investment banker in the food industry and a found­ing partner of Lakeshore Food Advisors, LLc, a bou­tique investment banking firm in chicago, according to the Saint Mary’s college website. 
Pellegrini ‘09 is a post­doctoral research assistant at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Bukur 
“It’s always a great experience. I learn a lot and I come out of it more culturally aware and inspired as a multicultural student. I hope students gain awareness, learn new things and get inspired to make changes outside of Saint Mary’s.” 
Cinthya Benitez Senior 
Mary Burke, Kristi Pellegrini and Bree Newsome. 
Burke ‘85, member of the Saint Mary’s Board of Trustees, is an experienced said. According to Bukur, her current research focuses on the chemistry of nuclear materials. 
The final keynote speaker to conclude the conference is activist and filmmaker Bree Newsome, Bukur said. Newsome is known for re­moving the confederate flag from the South carolina State house grounds. According to Bukur, she was arrested for her act of civil disobedience, but the publicity her act generated spurred state officials to permanently remove the flag in July 2015. 

As a member of the Board, Benitez said the conference is a worthwhile experience. 
“It’s always a great experi­ence,” Benitez said. “I learn a lot and I come out of it more culturally aware and inspired as a multicultural student. I hope students gain awareness, learn new things and get inspired to make changes on campus and outside of Saint Mary’s.” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 
Crash 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
students still inside it, he said. 
The students did not sustain any major injuries from the second ac­cident, Mcgaffigan said. 
The university declined to com­ment on the condition of the stu­dents due to privacy constraints. however, administrators have remained in contact with the stu­dent’s family, university spokes­person dennis Brown said in an email. 
“We keep their son and others injured in our prayers,” Brown said. 
The father of one of the students was driving the car and also taken to the hospital. he was discharged Saturday night, Mcgaffigan said. 
Mcgaffigan said icy road condi­tions were likely the cause of both crashes. Alcohol is not believed to be a factor. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 





PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

Admissions 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 1 
other statements that they make. We look at their activi­ties, the school recommenda­tions. We do our very best on multiple reads and discussions on applicants to see what mo­tivated them to do what they did and what they’ve done stronger, and give more evi­dence to this sense of reaching out, helping others and feeling you’re there for others, not just for yourself.” 
According to Bishop, Notre dame is more selective now than at any time in its history. undergraduate applications to Notre dame are up by “about 5,000” over the past six years, marking a 34 percent increase. This year, applications rose by 1,342, marking a seven per­cent increase, and over half of this increase in applications was comprised of applicants “who presented academic cre­dentials that place them in the top one percent of the nation 
– an 18 percent increase over last year’s pool with similar credentials.” 
The admitted class is 52 percent male and 48 percent female. Forty-eight percent ranked in the top one percent of their high school, while 94 percent of all admitted stu­dents ranked in the top 10 per­cent of their high school. The middle 50 percent of admitted students presented best SAT scores between 1420 and 1540, and best AcT scores between 33 and 35. 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
It was also a year of record numbers for diversity: The admitted class was 13 per­cent hispanic, nine percent African American, 11 percent Asian, and one percent Native American. 
Ten percent of admitted stu­dents are first generation col­lege students. 
This year’s admitted class makes Notre dame the most geographically dispersed ad­mitted first-year class among national research universities. Twenty-three percent is from New England and the Mid-Atlantic; 15 percent is from the 
“So our goal is to find 2,040 freshmen that are open to formation as much as possible. That they’re highly motivated, energetic, creative, but that at their core, they want to be there for others, not just their own success.” 
Don Bishop 
Vice President of 
Undergraduate Enrollment 
South and Southeast; 33 per­cent is from the Midwest and central Midwest; 23 percent is from the West and Southwest; and six percent is from outside of u.S. states. 
As academically competi­tive and diverse as the admit­ted class is, however, Bishop said that the numbers were not nearly as competitive as they could have been had Notre dame employed admis­sions strategies used by other schools looking to improve their university’s ranking. 
“There are colleges being criticized for going out there and getting a large number of applicants that they’re going to reject,” Bishop said, “A group of schools that seemingly are re­cruiting students they’re going to turn down. Notre dame has not engaged in that practice. We don’t need a lower admit rate to feel good about what we’re doing, or try to be rated higher in some guide book. We’ve chosen not to play that strategy … We have a higher re­sponsibility to not just over-en­courage students that are not gonna get in to apply. So that’s why you can have a seven per­cent rise in applications but an 18 percent rise in students that five years ago were being rated at a 50 percent rate or higher with those credentials.” 
“The metrics on academics are easy to track and provide 
— so we have done so,” Bishop said, “however, even more impressive are the service, leadership, creative and entre­preneurial accomplishments and attributes of our students. Theses attributes have become more important in choosing our vastly talented applicants.” 

About 50 percent of admitted students were viewed as a top leader in their school and com­munity. An additional 45 per­cent were viewed as a strong leader in their school and com­munity, and were most likely rated by their school to be in the top two to five percent of leadership and service. 
“We’re trying to not be overly impressed with an applicant who posts good numbers,” Bishop said, “Our bet is they’re going to be a stronger, better community servant and leader than other students who have singularly good numbers, but [whose] motivation is just producing good numbers and don’t seem impressed with the opportunity for forma­tion. Who say ‘Whatever, but what grad school am I gonna get into if I go to Notre dame? how much pay do your grads make in ten years?’ If that’s the way that they’re measur­ing success, they’re really just not open to this broader phi­losophy of what Notre dame intends to do to you. 
“So our goal is to find 2,040 freshmen that are open to for­mation as much as possible. That they’re highly motivated, energetic, creative, but that at their core, they want to be there for others, not just their own success. We think that will make them more successful.” 
Although this has been a record-breaking year for Notre dame admissions in many re­spects and although selectivity for Notre dame is at an all-time high, Bishop said the greatest selectivity that determines ad­mission to Notre dame is more than just a numbers game. 
“We’ve been more selective on match,” Bishop said, “We’re not really interested in being a generic top ten university. We think we’re number one at who we are, and we want to keep getting better every year at be­ing that, and not really caring about ‘where does this SAT average or admit rate put us?’ We’re looking for that fit, and fit here means mission. Notre dame has a strong sense of who it is, and what its mission is., and we’re looking for stu­dents that we think will take full advantage of that. 
“It is the philosophy by which we’re trying to engage the right kids to apply, for us to admit the right students and for them to decide whether to come or not. … What they get is, ‘I’m com­ing here to keep forming who I am, who I want to be, and how I’m going to be the best version of myself.’ But a part of that is not this external validation of success. And I think too many students in America today, no matter what highly selective college they go to, seem to be under a lot of pressure to conform to a certain status of what they think is impressive to others, but doesn’t impress them internally.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 

INSIDE COLUMN 
donald Trump: the beginning of the end 

Hunter McDaniel 
Sports Writer 
could this be the beginning of the end for donald Trump’s presidential hopes? 
Since he announced his candidacy last June, Trump has continued to gain followers because he “tells it like it is.” Vast numbers of Americans love the guy because they think he says whatever is on his mind without worrying about political correctness. 
That same trait could now be causing trouble for the Trump campaign as the election begins to heat up. 
We now sit only three months from the Republican National convention in cleveland, and Trump just closed arguably his worst week of the entire campaign. 
It started when corey Lewandowski, Trump’s campaign manager, was charged Tuesday with battery of a female reporter on March 8, and Trump publicly denied Lewandowski had done anything wrong. 
Next came his reversal on a previous pledge to support the Republican nominee if it happens to be someone other than him. (To be fair, Ted cruz and John Kasich also distanced themselves from the pledge.) 
After that, he suggested that Japan and South Korea, two of the united States’ strongest allies in Asia, should consider developing nuclear weapon programs so the American military can withdraw from the region. Leaders from both nations made clear their confusion and shock on a possible shift from agreements that have lasted for decades and provide stability in a region dominated politically by china and North Korea. 
Then on Wednesday, Trump floated the idea that women should be “punished” if they have abortions, should the practice be made illegal in coming years. After fierce criticism from both pro-choice and pro-life groups, he changed his mind Thursday to say the doctor who performs an illegal abortion should be prosecuted, rather than the woman. he then changed his mind once more Friday, saying federal abortion laws should remain unchanged. All of this happened in a matter of just 72 hours. 
Now, it seems as if Trump could be looking at a loss in the important Wisconsin primary this com­ing Tuesday, making a contested convention in July look like a much more realistic possibility. 
So far in this election cycle, donald Trump has been able to say pretty much anything he wants and still find support wherever he goes. 
But a series of serious missteps, on issues ranging from women’s rights to foreign policy to a growing 

The March 28 Capitol Hill shooting: on and off the record 
April Feng 
Story Time 

Whether you are on campus or abroad, whether you get your news from Buzzfeed, Twitter, The Washington Post or The New york Times, on March 28, you probably heard that there was a shooting in Washington, d.c. 
I happened to be working inside the newsroom of cBS News, located only 20 minutes away from capitol hill, when the incident happened. Inside the newsroom, there are television screens live streaming footage of the hill from every camera angle, computers monitoring the news coverage of every major media outlet and dozens of elite jour­nalists updating the situation from the d.c. Police department, the White house, and the Senate Office Buildings. At the same time, my friend was inside in the u.S. capitol Visitor center, getting ready to lead a tour. Inside the Visitor center, there were hundreds of people waiting to admire the glamour of the nation’s legislature center, kids with beautiful dreams and innocent laughter, and doz­ens of staffers just doing their jobs. 
here is an honest account of what happened on the afternoon of March 28, both in the newsroom, according to my observation, and inside the Visitor center, according to my friend’s. While my obser­vation was on the record, reported out to an audi­ence of more than 50 million, and archived into history, my friend’s account was off the record and was known to no more than a thousand people. 
2:32 p.m. ON ThE REcORd: The gunshot was fired, as re­ported later by d.c. Police. 
OFF ThE REcORd: I was waiting for my tour group to exit the North Theater and was looking down at my phone to research a fact about the capitol. I heard the doors burst open on the Senate side and saw one police officer come out shouting; then, about five seconds later, five or six more po­lice officers came out of the same doors and were in a hurry. That’s when I started running to hide, and one of the capitol staff told me to stay in the corner. 
2:45 p.m. 

ON ThE REcORd: cBS Newsroom staff saw the first Twitter post on the shooting, which was post­ed four minutes ago. Staff in the newsroom started to call everybody they know, including senators, capitol hill staffers and members of the d.c. Police department, to confirm the news. By 2:50 p.m., the news was confirmed and reported out. Breaking news: Shooting on capitol hill. 
OFF ThE REcORd: For a while, I just sat in a corner alone, but then police officers started ask­ing people to stay down. Next thing I know, I am surrounded by kids and their families, and I could recognize some one or two other interns. 
2:52 p.m. 

ON ThE REcORd: “house alert: The capitol com­plex is locked down. A police officer tells me this is not a drill.” –cBS capitol hill producer. The bureau sends the first correspondent to the hill. 
OFF ThE REcORd: Everything happened so quickly. I looked around for a second and saw that two mothers were hugging their daughters. One of them had tears running down her face and ap­peared to be mumbling words. Four people were holding hands and praying. I repeated to the two little girls in front of me that everything was go­ing to be okay, as I noticed her mom was breathing heavily. 
3:02 p.m. 

ON ThE REcORd: during the White house daily briefing, reporters surrounded Josh Earnest, the White house Press Secretary. he said since he has been briefing through the reports, he can’t comment. 
OFF ThE REcORd: When they announced that we must all shelter in place and that shots were reported at the cVc, I think I started to tear up, be­cause I did not know what to do or what was going on. I thought about calling my family, but did not want to worry them.
 3:19 p.m. ON ThE REcORd: cBS News set up live reporting on constitution Avenue. 
OFF ThE REcORd: One of the little girls asked her mom, “Mom, are we going to die?” The dad of the little girl then told his wife that, if anything were to happen, she has to run with the girls. 
3:20 p.m. 

ON ThE REcORd: Evening News producer re­ported that the d.c. Police department claimed the incident at the uS capitol hill was an isolated one. There is no active threat to the public. Three minutes later, Radio correspondent got the offi­cial word from capitol Police: “The suspect was in custody.” 
OFF ThE REcORd: A group right across from us started clapping, so I took that as good news, but I continued to tear up. 
3:24 p.m. 

ON ThE REcORd: Special Event producer report­ed: “‘Shelter in place’ lifted by u.S. capitol Police. People are being released out of the capitol.” 
OFF ThE REcORd: With all that’s been going on, and the recent terrorist attack in Brussels, the fear intensified in us all, I felt. 
The things that were on the record were later in­gested and then archived into history. And so when all the sirens stopped screaming and the capitol complex reopened on the next day, this is the last update of the capitol hill shooting: 
ON ThE REcORd: On March 28, 2016, in Washington, d.c., around 2:30pm, a man pulled out a handgun and aimed at a police officer. A u.S. capitol Police officer opened fire and wounded the man before he could get a shot. A female civilian bystander was injured. There was no fatality re­ported. The suspect’s name is Larry dawson and is now in custody. 
OFF ThE REcORd: 
Dan (April) Feng is a junior Political Science and Economics double major. She is from Beijing, China and lives in Lyons Hall. April welcomes all comments (or complaints :P) and can be reached at dfeng@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
rift within the Republican party, could signal the start of real trouble for the Trump campaign. 
Will he be able to bounce back? Or will he contin­ue to stumble now that he is facing real challenges, even before going head-to-head against such an ex­perienced politician in hillary clinton in the fall? 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



Devon Chenelle 
The gadfly 
Whether it be henry and William James, or Kim, Kourtney and Khloe, little grabs the popular imagination quite like remarkable families. One such family is that of (aunt) hanabiko “Koko” and (niece) Binti Jua. Koko’s innovations in linguistics and animal husbandry revolutionized both fields. Binti Jua became one of chicagoland’s heroines when, in Brookfield, Illinois, a three year-old boy suffered an 18-foot fall into a zoo enclosure filled with savage beasts. While onlookers screamed at the injured boy’s plight, bleeding from his face and suffering from a broken hand, Binti Jua leapt into action, picking up the wailing child and protecting him from the animals. When rescue personnel ar­rived, Binti Jua calmly handed over the boy – while still holding unto her own infant son Koola, at­tached to her back throughout the incident. Koko and Binti are, of course, western lowland gorillas. 
The universal declaration of human Rights is one of the modern world’s most important docu­ments, a profound reaction to the death and horror of World War II, and all the injustices that led up to it. Its first article declared “all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood,” a claim helpfully augmented in Article 2 with the provision that “everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this declaration, with­out distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status,” attempting to make amends for the evils of 

Behold the ape 
discrimination by race, sex, and class. yet a grow­ing body of scientific evidence seems to indicate that the declaration misses an even more perni­cious form of discrimination: species-ism. 
Koko the gorilla became famous through her apprehension of thousands of English words, and her use of that vocabulary to demand her own household pets. The gorilla pit the young boy fell into was Binti Jua’s home. It’s entirely possible to dismiss these accounts as distracting oddities, more suitable for “Ripley’s Believe It or Not” than serious thought. To do so, however, would be ut­terly wrong. The notion that humans, by virtue of their various unique traits, bear a status distinct and apart from the rest of creation, looks increas­ingly untenable. Every imaginable distinguishing human trait is found, likely widely, elsewhere in the animal kingdom. The honeybee’s waggle dance language can share huge amounts of information, and vocal dialects have been observed in whales and birds. Notre dame professor Felipe Fernandez­Armesto’s book A Foot in the River states “one of the commonest false assertions is that humans are uniquely tool-using or tool-making animals.” Scientists Peter Richerson and Robert Boyd noted in their book Not By genes Alone that “the com­plexity of chimpanzee tool traditions rivals those of the simplest modern human tool kit known, that of the Aboriginal Tasmanians.” Even, as noted in E.O. Wilson’s Sociobiology, “artistic impulses are by no means limited to man.” The similarity between bird and whale songs and human music has long been known and a 2014 study observed a chimpanzee drumming with “long-lasting and dynamically changing rhythms.” Our closest rela­tives, chimpanzees, wage war, dance for rain and undergo political revolutions. The sheer complexity of chimpanzee social development, described by 
E.O. Wilson as “manlike,” is compelling evidence for identifying ourselves as but one of the animals, separated not by kind but degree. 
It is not just primatological evidence that helps make this case, but also anthropological findings. The old pop-cultural stereotype of Neanderthals as uni-browed savages was woefully wrong. Measurements of their skull size hint that they may have been smarter than modern humans, and Neanderthal burial sites are as impressive as any human ones of the same period. could there be any reasonable standard for assigning rights that would deny them to the Neanderthals and grant them to the, at best, behaviorally identical early homo sapiens? 
If humans do have rights, as we all would like to affirm, it cannot reasonably be solely by virtue of our anatomy and descent alone, but only through the natural dignity afforded through our faculties of “reason and conscience.” As those faculties are partially shared with the apes, rights should be partially extended to them. No one wants to shove an orangutan into a voting booth, but it is our moral obligation to defend apes’ right to life and respect. charles darwin once wrote “how entirely vague and arbitrary is the distinction between spe­cies and varieties.” As usual, the evidence vindi­cates him. It is morally outrageous to deny rights to any beings on something so “vague and arbitrary,” as man’s putative separation from the animals. 
Devon Chenelle is a sophomore in Keough Hall. He is a history major with an Italian minor. He can be reached at dchenell@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The convergence of doing well and doing good 
Professor Ackermann’s lecture Tuesday evening concluded a series on personal finance, in which the celebrated educator deftly guided students through a secure investment plan. The Mendoza Student Leadership Association graciously or­ganized and sponsored the series, working with Professor Ackermann to provide informational presentations targeted to graduating seniors. Throughout the series, the corporate finance faculty member reflected on what he hopes Nd students’ good investment habits will allow in the future: the devotion of their time to “worthwhile causes” in an effort to do good and the realization of “immense satisfaction” in the process. 
While Professor Ackermann’s intentions were clearly well-intentioned, his didactic lectures did not include any advice on the ethical implications of investment responsibility. While he spoke quite briefly, the trained specialist should have none­theless taken a few minutes to explain investment responsibility, because our ability to do “good” in the world through our finances hinges enormously on our recognition of this responsibility, not just our future service or charity. 

Through macroeconomics courses, economics students and business students like myself come to consider money as another medium of democracy. That is, each dollar we invest and spend represents a vote toward a company’s success and contin­ued operations, and consequently, each investor and consumer contributes to business activity each time they invest or purchase. Every dollar held, then, accompanies a responsibility for the determination of a global future, which includes our environment and social futures, not just the economic. 
When we invest our money casually — with limited recognition of this responsibility, which may be the case in Ackermann’s recommendation of mutual stock indices — we miss an immensely significant opportunity to affect the kind of future we ourselves hope to see in the world. Sometimes it may feel like executives on Wall Street have all the power, and it is disheartening when they take advantage of that power to a negative effect, but we give them that power. Similar to the government, which owns nothing and can only spend tax dol­lars, Wall Street only owns that which we give it. 
classmates, faculty and staff, I challenge you with this thought: If you would watch a debate to discern a political candidate’s character before voting, shouldn’t you also learn about a company’s character before investing? 
And classmates, if you want to affect positive growth and change in the world, major in business. Or better yet, “ask more of business” by acting upon your responsibility as an investor. you have the power to affect the future now, so that, when you retire, the world may already be a better place. 
Kathryn Dennee 
senior Mar. 30 


ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2016 | NdSMcOBSERVER.cOM 

By KELLY McGARRY 
Associate Scene Editor 
“Wine, whiskey, women and guns”: They may not all be necessary to qualify the ruckus that Old crow Medicine Show raised at the Morris Performing Arts center on Friday. 
Emerging Americana musician Parker Millsap warmed up the stage in a trio consisting of fiddle, up­right bass and guitar, with the occasional harmoni­ca. The crowd howled back at his chilling wails, even as some audience members still found their seats. 
In an interview with the Observer, Millsap com­mented that Old crow draws a great crowd. his claim that “people come ready to listen to music” was prov­en before the end of his first song. 
The fun of the show was not without trickery. The audience at the April 1 show was told that there had been an altercation at the Burger King and the band was in jail: an appropriate scene for the art­ists of a litany of songs about old-time outlaws like “Bootlegger’s Boy.” 
The band’s appearance onstage was like a jail­break, and with “O cumberland River,” the string band quickly set the scene of “the heart of a guitar 
By ADAM RAMOS 
Scene Writer 
garret Borns makes good pop music. I know it, Tay knows it and over 100 million Spotify users will attest to it. BØRNS, the moniker used by the Michigan native to propagate his good pop mu­sic, brought his talent and band to Legends last Thursday night and played his good pop songs for everyone at Notre dame to hear. 
Listening to BØRNS’ good pop songs live was a good experience; I enjoy him when played from my computer, and the experience of hearing him in person was similarly enjoyable. And while “sat­isfying” may be the best adjective I can use in describing BØRNS’ predictable set, the opening act, Joe hertler & The Rainbow Seekers, seriously impressed. 
As the trickle of Notre dame students began packing into the familiarly sweaty night club, a pack of bohemian-clad davy crockett look-alikes and toga-donning vagrants approached the stage with incalculable aplomb. Before I could even fig­ure out what exactly these vagabonds were up to, I was hit by a wave of beautiful melodies. With pal­pable energy, the seven-piece Americana outfit got even the most conservative of domers channeling town” and were soon pulling heartstrings with the idealistic original “I hear Them All,” which sounds more like a classic folk song. 

Frontman Ketch Secor showed off his research, mentioning every nearby city the audience may have traveled from, even making a nod to the St. Joseph River. The knowledge fit the band’s persona: it’s im­portant to a band of traveling vagabonds to learn the roads they travel. 
A capella around a single microphone, the group sang “Barrett’s Privateers,” a song in the style of an old sea shanty, saying “This one’s for the fightin’ Irish.” 
American music icon doc Watson — who gave OcMS their start in Boone, North carolina — was not forgotten even at this performance 17 years later, when they played the bluesy tribute “doc’s day.” 
In the show’s apex, Old crow proved the claim of Secor, “We love to play hillbilly music!” Fiddle-and­banjo-heavy romps filled the ornate amphitheater, demanding hands to clap and feet to stomp. Quick, energetic melodies overlaid smooth guitar rhythms in aggressive yet harmonious layered dimensions. 
The musical dynamism of Old crow Medicine Show was matched by their physical movement. Musicians 
their inner deadhead, as their peculiarly provoking blend of folk, funk and rock flooded the house. 
Each member of Joe hertler & The Rainbow Seekers seemed blind to the audience, grooving and moving with the music like an excited four-year old at a wedding reception. The group’s combined syn­ergy and talent was remarkable, and when coupled with the frenetic stage antics, I couldn’t help but wish for more by the end of the short set. 
Eccentricities aside, Joe hertler & The Rainbow Seekers have found a collaboration that works, and their 2015 debut album, “Terra Incognita,” is worth a listen. Led by the sultry vocals of front man hertler, the rest of the Rainbow Seekers provide a fresh take on indie pop with their eclectic arrange­ments and grassroots approach. 
Next up was the man everyone was waiting for 
— the very same man that, up until Thursday, my roommate thought was a female because of the unnatural falsetto signature of the man. Opening with his early hit, “Seeing Stars,” BØRNS went on to perform his gauntlet of tracks, each maintaining an acceptable amount of energy. Making a little time for colorfully awkward dance moves and some fan hand touching, BØRNS performed a pretty stan­dard show. After playing about eight of his most popular songs off of his debut album, “dopamine,” passed around instruments fluidly. Each time bow went to fiddle, Secor was inclined to jump in a circle on one leg. Multi-instrumentalist cory younts set down his mandolin to steal the show with an ener­gizing dance: clogging, high-kicking and nearly even twerking across the stage. 
Introductions were give during hard-strumming bluegrass romp “8 dogs 8 Banjos,” which avoided a single dull moment but made following the descrip­tions of the six-piece group difficult. 
The set culminated in a uniting sing-along of Old crow’s adaptation of an old Bob dylan piece “Wagon Wheel,” leading many an arm to embrace a neighbor. 
Returning with playful cautionary ditty “Tell It To Me,” OcMS concluded the night in a stirring en­core. Parker Millsap returned to the stage to join OcMS in an affecting rendition of Van Morrison’s “Into the Mystic,” which fit his crooning vocals per­fectly. Bringing it home with Bob dylan’s “Just Like a Woman,” Old crow Medicine Show left their au­dience teary-eyed and speechless as they emerged from their country trek into the brisk downtown South Bend night. 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 
and one cover, BØRNS concluded his set with his hit, “Electric Love,” then quietly left the stage. Then everyone exited the club, satisfied, I guess. 
From a strictly musical standpoint, BØRNS im­pressed, and anyone new to his shimmering take on pop music was in for a treat Thursday night. Accessible but keenly fresh, the falsetto-rich “dopamine” — an appropriate name for the in­tensely fun album — was a highlight in 2015. Swinging melodies and infectious choruses are the hallmarks of BØRNS’ work, and tracks like “Past Lives” and “The Emotion” are testaments to this. While it may not be the most provoking of music, “dopamine” isn’t a bore by any means. 
I mentioned how BØRNS played a cover during his set; the song he chose was Arcade Fire’s semi­nal “Rebellion (Lies),” a personal favorite. And while I’ll admit to joining in as the chorus of Notre dame students chimed “lies, lies,” accompanied by BØRNS’ backing vocals, something was missing. The cover was fun, but it didn’t extend too far past that, failing to capture even a glimpse of the poi­gnant emotion and power of the track. But maybe that was just the theme for the set. 
I guess it’s better than hip-hop Night. 
Contact Adam Ramos at aramos6@nd.edu 

LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2016 | NdSMcOBSERVER.cOM 

Illustration by LAUREN WELDON | The Observer        Photos courtesy of Allison D’Ambrosia & Rahul Ramani 


CROSSWORD | WILL ShORTZ 
JUST ADD WATER | JOhN ROddy & ERIc cARLSON SUDOKU | ThE MEPhAM gROuP 



FLING BY SPRING | RILEy MccuRRIE HOROSCOPE | EugENIA LAST 


Happy Birthday: get involved in something you believe in and you will encounter people who will help you choose your course of action and the destination you long for. your insight into what’s right and wrong will give you a fair assessment of what needs to be done and the wherewithal to bring about positive changes. your numbers are 5, 18, 21, 27, 32, 39, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Being flexible will be the best way to reach your destination. choose to work with people who you know will work as hard as you. good fortune will come through a joint effort or venture. Invest in your future. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take part in an event that will educate and motivate you to do things differently. What you learn will distinguish you from any competition you face. Explore different philosophies or creative outlets that will allow you to express your thoughts and feelings. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Follow your heart and make adjustments that suit you and your chosen lifestyles. your ability to work through any differences you face will enable you to avoid interference. use your charm and intelligence to get what you want. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): choose to be different and you’ll attract someone who is interested in joining and contributing to your journey, making it that much more enjoyable. Travel, learning and indulging in projects that will improve your standard of living are all favored. Romance is highlighted. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Participate in whatever adventures entice you. getting involved in an activity that tests your strength, courage and intelligence is recommended. you will thrive when faced with challenges. Stick to a set budget. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): consider using assets, investments and tangible possessions to bring in cash if necessary. Question partnerships that have been costly or emotionally draining. Look for solutions and make suggestions that will improve the situation. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Personal improvements will make you feel good and help you take on a task that needs your attention. Added energy and bounce will help you drum up the interest you need to enlist others to pitch in and help. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Sign up to help with a cause. getting involved in humanitarian causes will give you greater insight into the existing problems and prompt you to do something to make a difference. A romantic evening will bring you closer to someone you love. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Observe what others do and say. Avoid getting caught in the middle of someone else’s problem. An accident is likely if you take a risk. Entertain at home instead of getting involved in activities or events that draw large crowds. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can offer help, but don’t let anyone take advantage of you. Look for any opportunity to practice and improve at your favorite pastime or hobby. Love is on the rise and will improve your personal life. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make the most of what you have. use your skills to generate something that would be of service to your community. Express your feelings and you will come to an agreement with someone who can influence your life. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Anger will rise if things aren’t done your way. Before you get upset, look for a way to implement your way of doing things in a diplomatic and friendly way. A positive and complimentary approach will lead to victory. 


Birthday Baby: you are distinguishing, curious and inventive. you are altruistic and caring. 
JUMBLE | dAVId hOyT ANd JEFF KNuREK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


To receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable and mail to: 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

city State Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 
West will shine  in playoffs 
R.J. Stempak 
Sports Writer 
The NBA playoffs are drawing near, and the two teams that are dominating headlines are the ones that are predictable and consistent. The San Antonio Spurs and golden State Warriors are the teams that get all the attention because they have put together two of the best regular-season performances in the history of the sport. 
So, if these two teams are guaranteed to win, why even talk about the other teams? Well, first of all, San Antonio and golden State are in the same conference, so one of these su­per teams will end its season without a Finals appearance. Secondly, basketball — more so than any other team sport — is star driven, as one player can single-handedly win a game for his team. 
There are only two teams in the league that have the star power on their roster to even have a chance to win a series against either the Spurs or Warriors. These two teams are the cleveland cavaliers and the Oklahoma city Thunder, who both have been inconsistent this season despite their star-stud­ded rosters. 
The Thunder have arguably two of the top five players in the entire league, and they have been playing together since be­ing drafted. Russell Westbrook is a triple-double machine who, when he plays under control, is an unstoppable offensive force. Kevin durant has returned to form, as he is currently riding a streak of 61 consecutive games of scoring at least 20 points. The Thunder have beaten the Spurs twice this season and have also played the Warriors tightly. On the other end of the spectrum, they have lost to bad Brooklyn and Sacramento teams by dou­ble digits and barely squeaked out a win this past week against a clippers team who rested four starters. 
If Oklahoma city can find consistency — which they have shown signs of while winning nine of their last 10 games — they have a chance to represent the Western conference in the NBA Finals. unfortunately, to do so they would have to beat both golden State and San Antonio in a best-of-seven series. That would mean they would have to win at least one game in their opponent’s arena. At home this season, the Warriors and Spurs are a combined 75-1, so beat­ing both of them in their arenas is essentially impossible for Oklahoma city, which is why the cavaliers have a better chance to take down the giants. 
calling any team with LeBron James an underdog is ludicrous. But during this season, the dominance of the super teams out west has done just that, as they have dwarfed the cavaliers. Off-the-court drama between LeBron and his coach, his team­mates, his ex-teammates and basically anyone LeBron comes in contact with has leaked onto the court and inhibited progress and cohesion for the cavs. Their rocky season has had its share of highs and lows, including two wins over the Thunder, a double-digit win over the Spurs, a 34-point loss to the Warriors and a nine-point loss to those lowly Nets. 
despite all of the extracur­ricular adversity, the cavaliers have a ceiling in the same range as the Spurs or Warriors sim­ply because they have LeBron James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love on their roster. Even though they are having trouble working together at times to­wards the end of their second season with each other, there is hope because everyone turns up their focus and effort in the playoffs. When LeBron decides to focus, his team wins, which is why he on track to earn his sixth straight NBA Finals appearance this season. 
So in June, an educated viewer should expect nothing but an­other Warriors or Spurs title. They are both great basketball teams who will increase their already astronomically-high level of play once the postseason starts. But do not be surprised if Oklahoma city or cleveland gives them a run for their money because the star players matter the most in playoff basketball. 
Contact R.J .Stempak at rstempak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC TENNIS | SMc 7, OLIVET 2 
Saint Mary’s tops Olivet 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s defeated Olivet, its first conference opponent, Friday by a final score of 7-2. 
Belles head coach dale campbell said it felt good for his team to get its first confer­ence win under its belt, and the knowledge of the higher stakes in conference play adds to players’ preparation and attitude. 
“Every win feels good, and you want to take care of busi­ness in all conference match­es,” campbell said. “It is a different feeling, and it is good to get that experience. I truly think it does [change attitudes to be in conference play], especially when [returning players] have that history and know the importance.” 
The Belles (8-3, 1-0 MIAA) finished the doubles por­tion of the match with a 2-1 lead. Senior captain Margaret Faller and sophomore Maddie Minaudo started the match strongly with an 8-5 win at No. 2 doubles and were followed by junior Kaity Venters and freshman Abbi Fleming, who also proved victorious with a 9-7 win in the No. 3 doubles match. campbell said the team dynamics and teamwork have continued to improve. 
“Our No. 2 doubles team has shown great composure as they figure out how to win their matches,” campbell said. “ ... This team and our No. 3 team had great comebacks to get critical wins. We had an excellent finish by [fresh­man] Monica davy at No. 1 [singles], Margaret Faller and Kaity Venters both had solid finishes in tight situations and Maddie Minaudo continued her winning ways. [Freshman] Elizabeth Preister also had a dominant win. We have won about 90 percent of our tie­breaker situations this year, which is very impressive.” 
In singles play, Preister, Venters, Minaudo, Faller and davy all out-played their op­ponents on their way to vic­tories. Junior Sam Setterblad fell 6-2, 6-4 in No. 2 singles. With that performance in the singles portion of the match, the Belles earned the over­all team win, 7-2. campbell said he is pushing continuous improvement this season within his team, even if it does not show results on paper. 
“On paper matters less be­cause improving is the key in my book,” campbell said. “But losing a conference match that you should win can cause a team not to make the final four conference tournament.” 
campbell said he is not very concerned by the two matches lost to Olivet, who currently sits in last place in the confer­ence standings. 
“We were without our top singles player, who had to be out, so there was no concern other than I thought we didn’t have a fast start in doubles,” campbell said. “That is some­thing we don’t want to repeat. doubles always has a greater level of volatility in terms of predicting the results. The teams do vary in where the strength of their team may lie.” 
Saint Mary’s will continue their conference slate with a home match against hope on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact  Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 

SMC LACROSSE | SMc 14, BENEdIcTINE 13; NORTh cENTRAL 14, SMc 4 
SMC squeaks out overtime win over Benedictine 
Observer Staff Report 

Last week told a tale of two different Saint Mary’s teams as the Belles overcame Benedictine with a 14-13 over­time win on Wednesday and fell to North central, 18-4, on Saturday. 
The Belles (3-5, 0-0 MIAA) were coming off back-to-back losses, including a 12-11 defeat to Illinois Tech last week. The game against the Eagles (4-5, 2-1 MWLc) closely mirrored the Illinois Tech game, as the game was a back-and-forth affair until the very end. The game was highlighted by the teams’ offenses, a significant number of lead changes and difficult weather conditions, which led to a delay at one point. 
Sophomore midfielder clare Theisen stepped up for the Belles both offensively and de­fensively, coming up with mul­tiple big plays, especially in the first half. Theisen scored three goals in the first period, which helped the Belles build an early two-goal lead. 
despite Theisen’s first-half heroics, however, the score was deadlocked, 7-7, at the half. Along with Theisen’s three goals, junior attack Lauren Telford scored the Belles’ first goal of the game, freshman midfielder Kate Kelly scored twice and junior attack Emilie Vanneste added another. 
Freshman goalkeeper cara givens was given the start in the game and played the en­tirety of the first period, giving up seven goals. Junior cap­tain and goalkeeper Shannon Weyer replaced givens at the half and played the remainder of the game. 
The Belles got off to a strong start in the second period. Junior attack Jackie Loesch scored twice in a 26-second span to give the Belles another two-goal lead, and it was fol­lowed up by Kelly’s third goal of the day. Freshman attack Molly Stout and sophomore attack hanna Makowski also picked up a goal apiece during the second period. however, the Eagles continued to rally back and tied the game up be­fore Theisen scored her fourth and final goal of the game to give the Belles a one point lead. With 30 seconds remaining, however, the Eagles scored once again to tie game and send it to overtime. 
The Belles put an end to the sudden-death overtime quick­ly, as Vanneste won the draw for the Belles and scored an un­assisted goal within thirty sec­onds to give her team the win. 
Later in the week, the Belles took on the cardinals (6-2, 0-0 ccIW) and fell 18-4, the Belles’ lowest-scoring output to this point of the season. The Belles defense was unable to contain the cardinal offense in the first period as they quickly fell be­hind 6-0. Kelly broke through to stifle the cardinals’ mo­mentum slightly, making it a 6-1 game. however, the Belles did not score for the rest of the period, whereas the cardinals continued their offensive onslaught. At halftime, the cardinals held a commanding 15-1 lead. 
The Belles had marginally more offensive success in the second period, although the defense was finally able to control the cardinals’ offense and slow their momentum. Sophomore midfielder Mary grace heller scored her first goal of the season and fresh­man attack Anna Perry tal­lied the first goal of her college career. Kelly scored a second time, but the team was unable to cut into the cardinals’ lead as they gave up three more goals in the half, making the final score 18-4. 
Saint Mary’s looks to come back from Wednesday’s loss when it plays Adrian at St. Joseph high School Field at 5 p.m. in its first conference game of the season. 



W Lacrosse 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
match. 
“We are playing in the best conference in the country at the part of our season where it’s top-10 team after top-10 team, and we didn’t come out the way that we needed to come out to assert ourselves as a top team,” said halfpenny. “We had to play from behind, and that makes it a little bit tougher mentally.” 
Still, halfpenny spoke highly of her team’s ability to fight back after falling into such a significant deficit early in the game. 
“I’m proud of my team and the way that they fought to make it a three-goal game,” halfpenny said. “We weren’t able to make it any closer than that. We have to assert ourselves and stay consistent to convert some of the pos­sessions. I’m confident in this group that they will respond. Their on-field leadership is with a perfect 4-0 conference record. The Irish have only one conference game remain­ing in the regular season — a home matchup with confer­ence co-leader duke on April 16. 
The Irish conclude their three-game road trip next weekend when they travel to Evanston, Illinois, to square off against Northwestern on Sunday. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
tremendous and they believe in who we are and where we are going.” 
Irish captain and gradu­ate student defender Barbara Sullivan continued to shine in her role despite the loss. Sullivan led the team in ground balls claimed and shared the team lead for draw controls with junior mid­fielder Alex dalton. Sullivan’s 37 ground balls and 47 draw controls also pace the team on the season. halfpenny praised Sullivan’s play as well as her leadership after Sunday’s loss. 
“I can’t say enough about Barbara Sullivan,” halfpenny said. “She’s leading the team the way we’re asking her. … She leaves it all out there. Our captains and other players are doing the same thing. We just need to continue to grow and learn how be a top team.” 
Sunday’s loss brings the Irish to an even 3-3 in the Acc, while North carolina re­mains tied with in-state rival duke at the top of the board 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


PAId AdVERTISEMENT 



Baseball 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
of negative play wins or loses a game for you, and you kind of feel for Freedman a little bit there on that play. 
“But yeah, that was a pretty funky game, that’s for sure.” 
The Irish spotted the demon deacons three runs on two hits, two walks, one hit batter and a throwing error by junior catcher Ryan Lidge in the top of the first inning and trailed the entire game before walk­ing off. Junior right hander Ryan Smoyer struggled to find the strike zone for most of the game. Smoyer threw for 4 2/3 innings and allowed four runs on four hits, four walks, one hit batter and two wild pitches. 
Mother Nature interfered again Saturday, as the forecast called for snow so the second game of the series was post­poned to Sunday, when the teams played a doubleheader. 
Wake Forest came out on top in a high scoring first game Sunday, pulling away for a 15­13 victory as it rode the big in­ning past the host Irish. The demon deacons scored three runs in the second, four in the sixth and a whopping seven in the top of the ninth to blow open what had been an 8-7 game entering the final frame. 
Notre dame, trailing by eight entering the bottom half of the ninth, mounted a valiant comeback attempt, trimming the final margin to just two runs and bringing the win­ning run to the plate, but se­nior shortstop Lane Richards grounded into a fielder’s choice to end the game. 
Senior utility man Ricky Sanchez went 3-for-4 game at the plate with an RBI while catching six different Irish pitchers — the demon deacons, on the other hand, used eight different players on the mound. Richards also fin­ished 2-for-5 with three RBIs. 
Notre dame jumped out to an early advantage in the se­ries’ rubber match Sunday afternoon though, using ag­gressive base running to capi­talize on a couple Wake Forest miscues and build a 2-0 lead after the first inning. The Irish added another run in the third and two more in the fourth to build a 5-0 lead. 
That would be more than enough for sophomore right hander Peter Solomon. 
Solomon struck out the side in the first and held a high-powered Wake Forest offense to just two runs on five hits while striking out eight demon deacons, the highest total for any Irish pitcher this season, en route to a 10-2 victory. 


“I was able to throw the curve ball for a strike early in the count, so that let them not just sit on the fastball the whole time,” Solomon said. “And then fastball in, slider late, just down: They were chasing it so I just kept throw­ing it.” 
“I thought Pete was out­standing,” Aoki said. “I thought he was really, really good. commanded his fast­ball, commanded — the slider and the curveball kind of went back and forth, but at the end of the day the slider was prob­ably the better pitch for him than the curveball was. 
“ … I thought he was really, really in command. I thought he did a really good job.” 
Aoki said a combination of Solomon’s pitching and the Irish defense being sharper in the rubber match was the key to turning the day around af­ter committing four errors in the first contest. 
“We just didn’t give them as many free 90s,” Aoki said of the difference between game one and game two. “Even when you think about some of the balls that fell in … it’s kind of one of those really weird days be­cause you don’t usually don’t see that out of our defense. 
“So as happy as I am win­ning two out of three, I can’t help but feel like we gave one 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 


away.” 
due to the length of the first game and Acc travel curfew rules, the final game of the series was shortened to just six innings, technically giving Solomon the complete game victory. 

Notre dame gets Monday off before it’s back on the Frank Eck Stadium turf Tuesday to host rival Michigan at 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 

Softball 
Rhodes took the mound and Reed at first. was solid through the first two Rhodes again worked her 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
innings, allowing three hits way out of a jam in the top 
and keeping the Seminoles off of the fourth inning. Florida baseman Alex Powers. In ad-of the scoreboard. State put runners on first and dition to the home run to The Irish kept the pres-second, but Rhodes notched break the game open, Powers sure up in the bottom of the three strikeouts in the frame recorded four hits in four at-second inning. Freshman to get out of the inning bats and knocked in five runs. catcher Maddie Mccracken unscathed. 
Florida State added two singled and advanced to “[Rhodes] threw a great more insurance runs in top of third on a sacrifice bunt and ball game, she just gave them the seventh inning to extend groundout. With two outs, too many runners,” gumpf its lead, bringing the game to Ali Wester chopped a ground said of her pitcher’s perfor­its final score, 14-5. Nasland ball to the shortstop and was mance. “When she didn’t give pitched four innings and gave called out on at first base on them runners, she dominated up eight runs — five earned — a controversial call to prevent them, and she did a great job.” as she picked up her first loss Mccracken from scoring. Not to be outdone in creat­of the season. Florida State In the third inning, Rhodes ing scoring opportunities, the junior Jessica Burroughs worked herself into a jam, Irish found themselves with pitched all seven innings for walking three Florida State runners on second and third the Seminoles and earned her batters to load the bases. A with two outs in the bottom of 16th win of the season. catcher’s interference call the frame, but King got Irish 

“We played really poorly plated one Seminole run, but senior first baseman Micaela the first game,” Irish head Rhodes got freshman desig-Arizmendi to foul out to third coach deanna gumpf said. “I nated hitter Zoe casas to fly base and the game remained just challenged them to step out to first base to keep the knotted at one. up and start fighting, and I score tied at 1-1. Notre dame broke the tie thought they did a great job of With the game tied in the in the bottom of the fifth, that in the second game, they bottom of the third inning, however. Brooks started the yet, the Seminoles came Irish. didn’t back down to the chal-the Irish threatened to score frame with a bloop single roaring back though, in the “I really just wanted to work lenge, they fought and I love yet again. Arizmendi singled and was replaced by a pinch top of the sixth inning as ju-on keeping the inning go-that.” to lead off the inning and runner, senior infielder carly nior second baseman Ellie ing and just make solid con-
The second game started on freshman designated hit-Piccinich. The substitution cooper lined a three-run tri-tact and do whatever I could a stronger note for the Irish. ter caitlyn Brooks ripped a proved to be important as ple along the first-base line to to help my team out,” Bigler Junior center fielder Karley double to right-center field Piccinich stole second on a tie the game at four. said. “I think it’s a big boost Wester lead off the contest to put runners on second and pass ball. The next batter, But the Irish would have the for us, after coming back from with a triple to the left field third as sophomore shortstop Reed, beat out a throw at first last say in the decisive sev-some tough losses, we worked gap. her sister, freshman Morgan Reed walked to load base to put runners on the enth inning. Sullivan singled really well as a team after that second baseman Ali Wester, the bases. corners with no outs. to lead off the inning, and first loss today.” reached base on an error by But the Irish could not Sullivan singled to left to Sorlie singled two batters After taking down the Acc-Seminoles sophomore third capitalize as junior third put the Irish ahead 2-1, and later to set up Bigler with the leading Seminoles, the Irish baseman Jessica Warren and baseman Kimmy Sullivan then, with two outs, sopho-opportunity to win the game next take on IuPuI Tuesday drew an errant throw on her popped out to the shortstop more left fielder Bailey Bigler with two outs. at 5 p.m. at Melissa cook stolen base attempt of second and Mccracken lined out to cracked a triple to center field And Bigler came through Stadium. that led to Karley Wester scor-Seminoles freshman pitcher to score Reed and Sullivan, with a bloop single to center ing the game’s first run. Meghan King who turned as the Irish exited the inning field, scoring Sullivan and Contact Marek Mazurek at 
Irish senior left-hander Allie the double play, throwing out with three runs to lead 4-1. winning the game for the mmazurek@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 
Kavanagh, and I think he’s 
M Lacrosse 
awesome — it’s great to see 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
him go out there and play like 
that. And I definitely think second-half goals, courtesy the rest of the nation took of junior attack Jordan Evans, note of that. he’s back and to close the gap, 9-6. Evans he’s ready to go, and I’m re-led the way for the Orange ally excited to see what the with three goals, while senior future has for him.” midfielder Tim Barber added Along with strong play from a goal and two assists. the Irish defense and 10 saves 
That would be the closest from junior goalie Shane the Orange would get, how-doss, Wynne and Kavanagh ever, as Notre dame scored helped deal Syracuse its third eight of the last nine goals of consecutive loss. In addition, the game. it was Syracuse’s worst home 
A few of those tallies would loss in 29 years. come from the stick of fresh-For Notre dame, however, man attack Ryder garnsey, one of the most important as-who scored a career-high five pects of the game was having goals for the Irish. Furthering the outcome wrapped up fair-Notre dame’s offensive out-ly early. The last three games put was senior attack and for the Irish had all been de­preseason All-American Matt cided by one goal, including Kavanagh, who tallied a ca-two that went to overtime. reer-high nine points with “Tight games definitely three goals and six assists. help you down the line with Prior to the game, Kavanagh experience and everything, had been having a quiet year but having a game where we by his standards, scoring could just go out there and only seven goals and notch-dominate, it was very nice — ing 11 assists in his first six kind of a relief to not be going games. Wynne said he be-down to the wire for once,” lieves Kavanagh’s big game Wynne said. against the Orange is a sign of Notre dame will return to things to come for the senior. action Saturday against No. 
“I think it’s huge,” Wynne 11 duke. The game, held at said. “We all know the kind Arlotta Stadium, is slated to of player [Kavanagh] is. We start at noon. see it every day in practice. he’s been busting his butt Contact Brian Plamondon at getting back to the old Matt bplamond@nd.edu 





Football 
cONTINuEd FROM PAgE 16 
competition.” 
Irish head coach Brian Kelly also discussed senior receiver corey Robinson’s progress as he continues to recover from a concussion he suffered over a week ago during practice. Robinson spent time Friday getting in work on the station­ary bike. 
“We’re going to get an evalu­ation with a specialist to make sure that we’re covering all the basis with [Robinson],” Kelly said. “he’s had a couple con­cussions, so obviously we want to do everything that we can to get him all the information necessary so we don’t put him in a position where he doesn’t feel comfortable getting back onto the field. 
“We’ll [get the evaluation] next week, and then I think we’ll have him in a better posi­tion relative to making a deci­sion to get back on the field.” 
Additionally, sophomore re­ceiver Miles Boykin, who had been out for over a week follow­ing surgery on a broken finger, and senior offensive lineman colin Mcgovern, who had been out with a concussion, both re­turned to practice Friday. 
Running back competition 
Addressing the competition 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT 

this spring for the start­ing job amongst the running backs, Kelly said senior Tarean Folston and sophomores Josh Adams and dexter Williams are all getting reps and could all see carries this season given the way their strengths complement one another. 
“[Folston’s] got some strengths,” Kelly said. “he runs the inside zone play very well, so when we get into some of our spread offensive sets, he’s very very good at keeping the ball inside the tackles. … Josh runs the outside zone extremely well, and dexter has the speed that we’re looking for, so it’s re­ally all three of those guys and balancing their rep work up over the last three days.” 
After entering last season as the starter, Folston tore his AcL in the season opener against Texas and watched Adams and former running back c.J. Prosise handle the majority of carries the rest of the way. despite no longer be­ing the guaranteed starter for the Irish, Folston has been fo­cusing more on his recovery and less on the competition, Kelly said. 
“It’s been really for Tarean just rounding himself back into the physical condition necessary to play in the of­fense and getting confidence to make that explosive cut,” Kelly said. “I think the last time he put his foot in the ground and really was explosive, he tore his AcL, right? So getting past that I think is where he’s more focused. I don’t think he’s frus­trated at all. 
“ … I think the competition has brought out the best in him.” 
Replacing Will Fuller 
With Will Fuller leaving ear­ly to declare for the NFL draft, the Irish now have to find a way to replace the 1,258 yards and 14 touchdowns they got from him at receiver last season. 
One player that Kelly thinks could develop into a similar role as a game-breaking re­ceiver is junior corey holmes, although he is not quite there yet, Kelly said. 
“There’s track speed and there’s in-line, straight-line speed and then there’s, quite frankly, football speed,” Kelly said. “I think that that’s been the struggle with corey in the first couple years, is to get that to translate through playing fast and playing with confidence. And I think he’s gaining that. he’s gaining the confidence, and we’re seeing definitely a different football player. 
“he’s not Will Fuller speed yet, certainly. Although he runs at the same speed, he’s not playing at that same speed yet. I think he’s capable — he’s certainly not there yet — but he’s moving and trending in the right direction.” 
Instead, Notre dame’s best bet to replace some of Fuller’s production right now is se­nior Torii hunter Jr., he said. hunter Jr. had 363 yards and two touchdowns last year for the Irish. 
“Torii hunter [Jr.] would be that guy right now,” Kelly said. “I think he’s got top-end speed, elite speed that he can compete with the very best in the coun­try. We think corey [holmes] is trending that way — he’s not there yet, he’s got to play with more confidence and attack the football a little bit more ag­gressively — but Torii hunter would be a guy right now that we think can continue to grow into that position.” 
Freshman Kevin Stepherson has also been impressive dur­ing spring practices thus far and could have an immedi­ate impact for the Irish, Kelly added. 
“Stepherson, I hate to put a lot on a freshman, but right now he is an outstanding ball catcher, maybe our best right now in terms of catching the football,” Kelly said. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
PAId AdVERTISEMENT ThE OBSERVER | MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2016 | NdSMcOBSERVER.cOM 


FOOTBALL 
Kelly discusses injuries, running back competition 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Associate Sports Editor 
Another injury struck Notre dame’s spring practice ses­sions, as junior cornerback Nick Watkins fractured his left humerus Saturday during drills. 
Watkins, who underwent a successful surgery for the in­jury that night, will be side­lined for the remainder of the spring and is expected to be ready for summer workouts. he had been seeing many of the starter’s reps alongside senior cole Luke at the cor­nerback spot this spring up to this point. 
“I’m a starter, being out there with the ones,” Watkins said of his approach to the secondary competition prior to the injury. “In my mind, I’m a starter, and that’s just how I feel. That’s the confidence you have to have to play the posi­tion. … I feel like I’m my only 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 15 


MEN’S LACROSSE | Nd 17, SyRAcuSE 7 
Irish offense explodes in win 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 
No. 2 Notre dame played spoiler to No. 7 Syracuse on Saturday, as the Orange cel­ebrated their 100th anni­versary season of the sport. In front of over 200 former players, the Irish routed the 11-time national champion Orange, 17-7. 
The Irish (7-1, 2-0 Acc) were not intimated by the huge crowd in Syracuse’s iconic carrier dome, as sophomore attack Mikey Wynne said it made the Irish hungrier. 
“It was in the back of our 
heads,  knowing  that  they  
would  have  a  big  crowd  
there,”  Wynne  said.  “But  I  

think we wanted it bad just from the start. We’ve been working really hard in prac­tice, offensively especially. We just really wanted to show the country how good we are.” 
despite being the second ranked team in the country, Notre dame has relied heav­ily on its defense this season. Prior to the Syracuse game, the Irish had scored in the single digits in four straight games. Against the Orange (5-3, 1-2 Acc), the floodgates opened for the Irish, who were partially led by Wynne’s four goals. 

“I think it was just a lot of offensive movements off ball, looking for good shots and not settling for a decent one,” Wynne said. “Earlier in the year, we’d been settling for mediocre shots, and that has gotten us in trouble. But yesterday, we fought for re­ally good ones, and we had a bunch of guys moving off ball, so I think that was a key.” 
The game was never really much in doubt for the Irish, who opened up a 5-2 lead and extended it to five goals, 9-4, by halftime. 
Syracuse scored two early 
see M LAcROSSE PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | NORTh cAROLINA 14, Nd 8 
Notre Dame falls in top-10 showdown 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Notre dame rallied early in the second half in their top-ten matchup with No. 3 North carolina this past Sunday, but ultimately fell to the Tar heels by a fi­nal score of 14-8. 
After falling into a 10-3 hole with 29:11 remain­ing in the contest, the Irish (10-3, 3-3 Acc) scored four straight goals in 12 minutes to shrink their deficit to 3. Four different Irish players scored during the stretch, including junior midfielder and leading scorer cortney Fortunato, who tallied her 39th goal of the sea­son. Senior attacker Rachel Sexton also scored twice for the Irish. 
The Tar heels (10-2, 4-0 Acc) found widespread suc­cess on the offensive attack. After the Irish tied the game, 1-1, just over three minutes into the first half after the first of Sexton’s two goals on the evening, the Tar heels answered with an offensive run of their own, scoring eight unanswered goals to take a commanding 9-1 lead. Five players scored multiple goals for the Tar heels in the game, who outshot Notre dame, 18-8, in the first half. The Irish managed to nar­row the shot margin in the second period, outshooting the Tar heels 13-10, but their offensive pressure was not enough to give them a lead. 
The Irish also struggled with penalties throughout the afternoon. Notre dame committed 48 fouls to North carolina’s 20, and the Irish also earned six yellow cards on the day, including one issued with 28 seconds re­maining in the first half. despite this disparity, the Tar heels managed only one goal from the free position. 
Irish head coach christine halfpenny praised the level of her team’s competition after the loss, claiming that she would have liked to see her squad assert themselves more readily early in the 
see W LAcROSSE PAGE 12 

BASEBALL | Nd 6, WF 5; WF 15, Nd 13; Nd 10, WF 2 (6) 
Nd weathers Acc challenge 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Notre dame and Wake Forest were just trying to play a nor­mal, three-game series this weekend. 
Mother Nature had other ideas. 
In the end, however, the Irish (15-11, 6-6 Acc) weathered the storm a little better, taking two of three from the demon deacons (18-12, 5-7 Acc) at Frank Eck Stadium in confer­ence action. 
The fun started at about the last possible moment in Friday night’s series opener. With Wake Forest staked to a 5-4 lead, two outs, runners on sec­ond and third and a 1-1 count on Irish freshman right fielder Matt Vierling, the game was delayed by freezing rain and high winds. After a 33-minute delay, Vierling took a cut at the first pitch and hit a soft ground­er to Wake Forest sophomore shortstop drew Freedman. Freedman’s throw was wide of first, however, and Irish junior pinch runner Torii hunter Jr. and senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis scored to give Notre dame its fifth walk-off victory of 2016. 
“That was pretty high up there,” Irish head coach Mik Aoki said when asked where Friday night’s contest ranks among the most bizarre games he’s coached. “ … you’ve got kind of a hail/rain delay, and then obviously, you’ve been in that situation where some sort 
see BASEBALL PAGE 13 

ND SOFTBALL | FLORIdA STATE 14, Nd 5; Nd 5, FLORIdA STATE 4 
Squad splits with Seminoles 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Editor 

Over the weekend, No. 22 Notre dame split a double­header with No. 9 Florida State after an unusual April snow­fall turned a three-game series into a two-game Sunday set. 
With the win in the second game of the doubleheader on Sunday, Notre dame (26-6, 5-3 Acc) snapped Florida State’s (27-4, 7-1 Acc) 22-game win streak. The weekend series did not begin well for the Irish, however, as they fell in the first game of the doubleheader at Melissa cook Stadium, 14-5. 
The game was a close con­test for four innings. Junior Rachel Nasland started on the mound for the Irish and was looking for her 10th win of the season. The Seminoles had other plans, however, and they knocked in six runs in the first three innings off of the right-hander. 
The Irish answered back though, with five runs of their own to make it a 6-5 game after the third inning, and it remained that way after a scoreless fourth frame. 
From there, however, the Seminoles took the lead and never looked back. In the fifth inning, the Seminoles scored two runs and added four more in the top of the sixth largely due to a three-run home run by junior Seminoles first 
see SOFTBALL PAGE 14 




