The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 107 | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Memorial Mass honors Sagartz 
Campus community celebrates life of Notre Dame junior 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
Family, friends and members of the notre dame community filled the basilica of the sacred heart wednesday evening to honor the life of Theresa sagartz, a junior and former resident of pangborn hall, who died last week in her off-campus apart­ment due to apparent natu­ral causes related to a medical condition. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins celebrated the memorial mass, and Fr. pete mccormick, director of campus ministry, delivered the homily. The notre dame liturgical choir provided music for the mass. 
“as we situate Theresa’s death into the fabric of our 
see mass PAGE 4 

college 
names


 speaker 
Observer Staff Report 
victoria “Tori” murden mcclure, president of spalding university, will speak at the 169th saint mary’s commencement ceremony, which will take place may 14 on le mans green, according to a college press release. The 350 graduating students represent 31 states and four countries, and three students will be valedicto­rians, the release said. 
mcclure is the author of “a pearl in the storm,” which docu­ments her adventure across the atlantic, according to the book’s 
see speaKer PAGE 5 



dinner aims to spark dialogue 
women’s month; this year, 

By MEGAN VALLEY 

news writer the theme is “working to Form a more perfect union: 

2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: LLOYD MAYER 



Professor analyzes election 
rachel o’grady: Trump just nomination? 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor pretty handily won a number lloyd mayer: short-term, of states [last night]. what does it makes it likely that Trump 
Editor’s Note: Throughout 
will have the most delegates 

students and faculty gath-honoring women in public 
the 2016 presidential 
ered wednesday night for service and government.” 
campaign, The Observer will 
the  celebration of  women  The  dinner  featured  Kym  sit down with Notre Dame  
dinner, as part of  women’s  worthy,  the  current  pros- experts to break down the  
week,  which  is  sponsored  ecutor from  wayne  county,  election and its importance  

by shades of ebony and the michigan, as the keynote 
to students. In this eighth 
gender relations center speaker. 
installment, associate news 

going into the republican 
convention, but it is less clear 
whether he will have a major­
ity of delegates. if Trump is 
nominated, it does not mean 
that the democratic party 
nominee will definitely win — 
(grc). 
rachel wallace, president of shades of ebony, said in her welcoming remarks that she is proud of how much women’s week, now in its fourth year, has grown. 
“when i was just a fresh­man, i remembered upper­classmen asking us to help them with an idea they had, and they wanted to celebrate women and 40 years of wom­en at notre dame,” she said. “we started out with the grc doing three events in the spring of 2013, and this year, we have six events. we’ve re­ally come a long way.” 
according to wallace, the women’s week theme re­flects the theme for national 
worthy, who graduat­ed from notre dame law school in 1984, is known for filing charges against for­mer detroit mayor Kwame Kilpatrick and for working on a massive backlog of un­processed rape kits. despite these high-profile cases, she said she never intended to be a prosecutor. 
“at that time, there weren’t very many female pros­ecutors at all,” worthy said. “There weren’t many wom­en, there certainly weren’t many people of color in the office — they kind of had the same view i had at the time, a skewed view that prosecutors 
see dinner PAGE 5 

editor Rachel O’Grady asked 
no one is willing to make such Notre Dame Law School predictions anymore, given professor of election law Lloyd this mean for the republican how wrong just about everyone Mayer about the possibility of party down the road? what are a brokered GOP convention. the implications of a Trump see elecTion PAGE 5 

smc postpones program 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
after a year of planning and coordinating, the directors of the saint mary’s Travel writing in Jamaica summer study abroad program decided to postpone the trip due to a warn­ing issued by the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) concerning the Zika virus outbreak. 
directors aaron and dionne bremyer implemented the three week summer program this year for students who were not able, or who did not want, to study abroad during the aca­demic year. 
There was interest in the pro­gram from both saint mary’s and notre dame students, as well as students from other universities, aaron bremyer said. students were set to study at the university of the west indies in Kingston, Jamaica, he said. 
“it’s a wonderful opportuni­ty,” he said. “we’re really almost heartbroken over this.” 
director of the center for women’s intercultural leadership mana derakshani 
see Jamaica PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 nd women’s lacrosse  PAGE 16 men’s lacrosse PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What will you be doing for Saint Patrick’s Day? 


Brittany Restic 

Lia Rocchino 
sophomore 
freshman 
ryan hall 
ryan hall 
“watching an irish movie.” 
“dyeing everything i see green.” 
Irena Oh 

Sophia Costanzo 
freshman 
freshman 
ryan hall 
ryan hall 
“nothing.” 
“eating chocolate gold coins.” 
Joanna Mulvey 

Cynthia Qu 
freshman 
junior 
ryan hall 
ryan hall 
“going to the parade.” 
“watching movies.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com martha reilly victoria llorens Kathryn marshall 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

lauren weldon 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
John darr 

Photo Viewpoint emmet Farnan 
Pasquerilla East Men’s Tennis vs. Hawaii Club’s Lu’au Men’s Tennis vs. Finding Your Place in 
scott olehnik molly o’neill 

Paddy Parade Duke Stepan Center Miami the Universe campus-wide Eck Tennis Pavilion 5 p.m.- 8 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion Spes Unica Hall 
4:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. 3:30 p.m.- 5:30 p.m. Hawaiian food, hula 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 12 p.m.- 1 p.m. 
Corrections 

Featuring ND bagpipes The Irish take on the dancing and a lei-The Irish take on the Career Crossings 
The observer regards itself as 

and campus clubs. Blue Devils. making station. Hurricanes. Speaker Series. 
a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Irish and English LGBT Retreat Men’s Lacrosse vs. Palm Sunday Mass Chili Cook-off 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Bilingual Mass all day Virginia Basilica of the Sacred Harper Hall 
however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, Basillica of the Sacred Sacred Heart Parish Arlotta Stadium Heart 4 p.m.- 6 p.m. please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so Heart Center 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 12 p.m. - 1:15 p.m. Proceeds benefit the we can correct our error. 5:15 p.m.- 6:15 p.m. PrismND’s 24-hour The Irish take on the Music by the Notre Harper Team for ND Celebrating St. Patrick. retreat. Cavaliers. Dame Folk Choir. Relay for Life. 

ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | The observer 

Film considers ramifications of Roe v. Wade 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s campus ministry and belles For life sponsored a screening of the film “40” in conjunction with a discussion with John morales, director of the film and founder of pro-life champions, and linda couri, a former planned parenthood counselor and the current director of the institute for lay Formation with the archdiocese of chicago. The film focused on the 40 years since roe v. wade legalized abor­tion and features women from both the pro-life and pro-choice movement. 
morales said he was not always at the forefront of the pro-life movement — he found his passion for the movement when he and his wife could not conceive and even­tually adopted their son. 
“i’m very passionate about this issue because i believe that the issue of abortion is not merely a religious issue or a political issue,” he said. “it’s not just acatholic issue or an evangelical or a protestant is­sue. it’s not a democratic issue or a republican issue. i believe that the issue of life is the most important human and civil rights issue of our time because without the right to life, there are no other rights to talk about.” 
couri said the two central features of her pro-life position are her past work with planned parenthood and the fact that she herself has had an abortion. 
“These features of my life have contributed significantly to my thoughts on abortion,” couri said. “i have come to the conclusion that in the long run, abortion is not the solution to truly help and pro­tect women.” 
according to couri, the issue of abortion “is tearing women apart from women.” 
“women need women. we need to get together. women need to save the world,” she said. “we’re just not talking. The woman-to­woman fight has become to ex­treme and so ugly that all of the gifts that women bring to the table in terms of communication and problem solving have been lost.” 

sophomore roni hanks said her concern is the potential danger that making abortion illegal pos­es. making abortion illegal will not stop women from having abor­tions, but instead would increase the number of women who die from unsafe and illegal abortions, she said. 
“according to my textbooks, over three-fourths of women who are considering abortion say that they would still go through with it even if it wasn’t safe or legal,” hanks said. “i think pro-choicers and pro-lifers alike can agree that the needs of women in our society are not met.” 
couri said her concern lies with the fact that the law has moral authority. Though she said if she could instantly make abortion illegal, she would do it, she also recognizes that the pro-life move­ment needs to consider what they will do if abortion does become illegal. 
“i very much care about this country,” couri said. “it makes me nervous that there is a law that says it’s okay to kill people. There is a moral authority that comes forth from law.” 
since roe v. wade made abor­tion legal in 1973, the sexual cul­ture changed drastically, couri said. premarital sex became more popular and abortion became the easy solution for unwanted preg­nancy, she said. 
“what i want to know is why women sleep with and have sex with men and give it away so of­ten,” couri said. “i’m very con­cerned with how much women can engage in sexual activity with people who are not willing to be fathers. … never in the course of history could women control their fertility, which really kept social mores kind of at bay. all of a sud­den, men now have access to the one thing they want the most. 
“The problem is, women have lost their power in a lot of ways be­cause one power we do have is sex­ual power. … i think prevention of unwanted pregnancy has to begin with who are women choosing to sleep with.” 
The blame for unwanted preg­nancy should not be placed solely on the woman, senior vanessa Troglia said. 
“my problem is it puts virgin­ity or abstinence in a box,” Troglia said. “it makes it a woman’s re­sponsibility and not a human responsibility. … if we’re really talking in feminist terms, it should be ‘nobody should be giving it away.’ my problem is the respon­sibility is put solely on women in­stead of putting it on both partners equally, which is a sad reality.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

speaker highlights inequality in sTem fields 
By MEGHAN SULLIVAN 
news writer 
The university’s physics de­partment hosted a colloquium on wednesday featuring elizabeth simmons, a distinguished profes­sor of physics at michigan state university, who gave a talk en­titled “moving Toward gender equity in sTem.” 
The first part of simmons’s lec­ture focused on the context of the situation and the current statis­tics on women pursing education and careers in sTem fields. To do so, simmons used graphical data and research results called a “scissors plot” that illustrated the sharp decline in the percentage of 
paid adverTisemenT 

women who pursue degrees and advanced degrees in sTem fields, particularly physics, despite the nearly 50-50 gender divide in background high school science classes. 
“This is a problem for physics, and this is a problem for sTem, because we are losing talent at a time when more and more of the really interesting jobs in the country require you to know something about science, and there are more and more jobs in the scientific and technological fields,” she said. “people are being cut out of these opportunities.” 
simmons said the gender dif­ference in sTem fields is also il­lustrated by the discrepancies between the resources provided to men and women. women tend to have less access to professional resources like funding, lab space, equipment, travel money and clerical support, she said. 
“This certainly is placing the women at a disadvantage in terms of career advancement,” she said. 
some of the causes that contrib­ute to this type of environment in the sTem disciplines — such as implicit bias, gender schemas and stereotype threats — promote judgments and viewpoints that produce different treatments of differing genders, simmons said. 
“regardless of our own gender, we are all prone to unconscious bias to unconscious assump­tions about what it means to be a certain gender … and what it is appropriate for a certain gender to do, or to act like, or to feel like,” she said. 
moreover, simmons said there are multiple possible solutions to the bias issues that contribute to gender inequity in sTem. 
“you take longer to match ‘women’ with ‘physicist’ than ‘men’ with ‘physicist,’ for exam­ple. it’s not that you might ratio­nally think that makes any sense, but we’ve been given these cul­tural predispositions,” simmons said. 
however, bias is not the sole issue women in sTem face — family life, namely marriage and parenthood, greatly influences a woman’s probability of receiving a tenured job or pursing a career in research, simmons said. 
“a married man with a child has 50 percent greater chance of landing a tenure-tracked job in any given year than a married woman with a young child,” she said. 
simmons said on average, the hours spent on caregiving rises sharply and more dramatically for women than it does for men after having children. simmons said the added caregiving hours make it difficult to maintain a previously high number of career work hours, and it calculates to working about a day less per week after having children. 
simmons said this situation would improve if employers pro­moted gender-neutral parental leave, clearly advertised paren­tal leave as an entitlement and scheduled meetings during regu­lar business hours. 
“you can build up that culture [in the workplace] over time, and it’s really important,” she said. 
simmons also said many wom­en in sTem fields tend to avoid ne­gotiation, a habit that stems from women’s possible uncertainty on what they “deserve” and desire to avoid harming work relation­ships. as a result, women tend to ask for less, subsequently receive less and ask in an “interest-based” manner, she said. 
simmons defined an “inter­est-based” negotiation as one in which a person determines their underlying motivations and needs and the motivations and needs of the other person to see where they match in order to figure out a mutually beneficial solution. 
“if i [as a dean] didn’t know what [employees] need to be suc­cessful, even if i managed to hire them, i might not be able to retain them,” simmons said. 
Contact Meghan Sullivan at msulli41@nd.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

STUDENT SENATE 

group discusses joint venture 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
student senate voted on wednesday to draft a resolu­tion to request more information from the university about notre dame’s partnership with Zhejiang university (ZJu) in china to cre­ate a joint residential liberal arts college. 
according to a white paper au­thored by J. nicholas entrikin, vice president and associate pro­vost for internationalization, and Jonathan noble, assistant provost for asia, the school “will be com­posed of six colleges and institutes, each developed in joint partner­ship with north american and european university partners. … This past summer, notre dame and ZJu signed an agreement to hold bilateral discussions about the feasibility of this joint venture.” 
This proposal was spearheaded by dillon hall senator sophomore michael Finan. 
“i was thinking about drafting a resolution to send to the admin­istration, expressing that students feel left out of the conversation,” he said. 
“The university that they are forming is a partnership with Zhejiang in china, but also six total schools. They are going to [include] the university of illinois urbana-champaign, the imperial college london, the university of edinburgh,” bryan ricketts, stu­dent body president, said. 
“The idea would be that every­body involved in this is contribut­ing something to this joint school, but it would be a school that awards a degree in part sponsored by notre dame, and notre dame would be responsible for provid­ing a liberal arts curriculum to this school,” ricketts said. 
senators expressed concern over the lack of information avail­able to students on this initiative, in addition to concerns about the religious atmosphere this joint school would have, due to its loca­tion in an area known for its reli­gious persecution. 
Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 

Mass 
conTinued From page 1 
day-to-day lives, we are in­vited to look back, not with sadness or regret, but with gratitude, to be thankful for the way she touched our hearts, both directly and indirectly [in] her love of her family and friends, the resilience with which she lived her life,” mccormick said.“Through Jesus’ life, death and resurrection, he demonstrated how far he would go to prove god’s love and lasting commitment to each of us. Jesus’ testimony and god’s desire to be in relationship with us now serves as the basis for our prayer tonight, to commend a sister, a daughter, a friend, a role model, back to god.” 
mccormick said sagartz was a woman who lived self­lessly and was known for both her compassion and leadership — evident in her multiple roles on cam­pus, which included being an “honorary mom” to sec­tion 2a in Zahm house who brought oranges to soccer games. 
“The list could go on forever of the things that made Theresa, Theresa,” mccormick said. “but what we celebrate is her turning back to god, a god who so deeply loves each of us that he has created a space for us in him to return. Theresa’s life has changed. it has not ended.” 
sagartz’s life was a mani­festation of god’s grace, mccormick said. 
“god blessed Theresa with the precise amount of time needed for her to make an 
“God blessed Theresa with the precise amount of time needed for her to make an impact on this world.  We no doubt would have preferred more of it, yet so goes the delicate and precious nature of life. ” 
Fr. Pete McCormick 
director, Campus Ministry 

impact on this world. we no doubt would have preferred more of it, yet so goes the delicate and precious na­ture of life. and while we are tempted to measure the quality of life in years, the true measure of life is what you do in the time that you have,” mccormick said. “if a person with 75 years mostly wraps himself in anger and greed, what good is that? is it somehow better than 21 years filled with love and service to others? ... no mat­ter the time we have here, five minutes or 100 years, we are invited to look for­ward, mirroring god’s love that extends beyond us and extends beyond death.” 
The fullness of sagartz’s life can serve as inspiration, mccormick said. 
“leaving the basilica to­night, my sincere hope is that each of us might be changed in some way,” he said. “perhaps we may ex­press a deeper gratitude for the family, friends and those lives that we come in con­tact with on a daily basis. ... or maybe, we develop a deeper trust through Jesus’ life, death and resurrec­tion — that we do not mourn Theresa’s death as if it were the end, but rather, prayer­fully, as she begins her jour­ney to eternal life.” 
Senior News Writer Catherine Owers contributed to this report. 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | The observer 

Election 
conTinued From page 1 
was about where the race would be at this point. but his pres­ence at the top of the ticket will alienate some voters who oth­erwise would vote republican, likely hurting turnout for republicans and negatively im­pacting republican candidates across the board. if he loses, the republican party will have a lot of ground to make up with vot­ers before the next presidential election. 
rog: hillary is gaining seri­ous momentum, but sanders could win the nomination yet. what are your predictions? 
lm: much smarter people than me have been dead wrong when making predictions for this election year, so i am hesi­tant to claim any ability to fore­see the future here. clinton will have to keep pushing hard to cross the finish line, and it is still possible that some unex­pected development or disclo­sure could derail her campaign. The odds are in her favor, but it will not be over until it’s over. 
rog: The potential for a bro­kered convention is becoming increasingly more likely. could it happen? what’s the result if it does? 
lm: if Trump does not have a majority of pledged del­egates, then the likely result of the first delegate vote at the republican convention will be no majority winner. i say ‘like­ly’ because some delegates, primarily republican national committee members from certain states, are not formal­ly pledged and so are free to vote for the candidate of their choice, even in the first round. if there is no majority winner on the first vote, at that point delegates are technically re­leased from their commit­ments based on the primary or caucus results of their state. even so, many delegates may feel bound by those results for subsequent votes, while oth­ers will have been chosen in a manner that ensures their loy­alty to the candidate for whom they voted in the first round. at this point it is therefore very difficult to predict the likely results. The key issue will be how far the leadership of the republican party is willing to go to block a Trump nomina­tion, which could include try­ing to change the rules i just described, so as to disadvan­tage Trump. 

rog: in your research and opinion, what do you think will be the most important issue in the general election? 
lm: at the moment the big­gest issue for many voters is the economy, including the apparent fragility of the eco­nomic recovery, the rapid pace of change in the workplace, and the resulting uncertainty for many workers and their fami­lies. related concerns include immigration, education, and healthcare costs, but events could easily shift this picture. The most obvious example 
board of the national outdoor 
Speaker 

leadership school, according to 
conTinued From page 1 

the website. 
prior to her presidency at website. she is best known for be-spalding, mcclure was a chaplain ing both the first woman and first of boston city hospital, a policy as­american to row solo across the sistant to the mayor of louisville, atlantic ocean, as well as to ski Ky. and the director of a shelter for to the geographic south pole, the homeless women, the press re-website said. a self-proclaimed lease said. according to the release, explorer, mcclure is chair of the she will be receiving an honorary 
paid adverTisemenT 

would be a major terrorist at­tack on u.s. soil, which could elevate national security and related issues such as immigra­tion to the forefront. 
rog: Taking it back to col­lege campuses, particularly here at notre dame, primaries in many of our home states are coming up. what is something we, as college students, should be paying particular attention to? 
lm: students should be pay­ing careful attention to the actual policy positions of the candidates, including whether their current positions ap­pear to be sincere ones based on their ideological commit­ments and past positions or instead positions adopted sim­ply to win the next election. student should also educate themselves about the issues, so they can form independent opinions about important ar­eas over which elected officials have significant influence, tak­ing into account not only what policies will best help them economically but the moral dimensions of policy choices. Finally, students, like all citi­zens, need to take what they learn, and apply it not only in the ballot box, but in between elections through involvement with politically active organi­zations and government bod­ies. The media may turn most of its attention elsewhere after nov. 8, but citizens should not. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
doctorate of humanities for her 
commitment to public service. along with mcclure, sister 
Joan marie steadman and portia 
prebys will be receiving honor­
ary degrees from the college, the 
release said. steadman will be recognized 
for her leadership abilities and 
her mission-focused efforts to 
preserve the legacies of both the college and the congregation, the press release said. she is the executive director of the leadership conference of women religious and a board member of loyola university health system in chicago, ac­cording to the release. she also served on the college’s board of regents, now known as the board of Trustees, from 1982 to 2006, and maintained her po­sition during her presidency of the congregation of the sisters of the holy cross, the release said. prebys will receive an hon­orary doctorate of humani­ties, according to the press release. she serves as the di­rector of saint mary’s study abroad program in rome and will be recognized for her life’s dedication to the cul­tural exchange between italy and the united states, the re­lease stated. a ‘66 graduate of the college, prebys received a Fulbright Fellowship to study renaissance history in italy, where she currently resides, the press release said. 
Dinner 
conTinued From page 1 
were there to put african americans in jail. That’s not true, but perception is reality for most people.” 
much of worthy’s work has been devoted to domes­tic abuse, sexual assault and other women’s issues. according to her, these is­
“If we want to have a more perfect union, we have to reexamine these issues, and it has to start with prosecutors.” 
Kym Worthy 
Wayne County prosecutor 
sues need to be addressed more fully. 
“why can we only be a more perfect union by pay­ing attention to so-called ‘women’s issues?’ because they’re exactly the issues we aren’t addressing,” she said. “and i feel they wouldn’t be ignored if it weren’t primar­ily female victims.” 
in 2009, 11,000 abandoned unprocessed rape kits were found in a detroit police warehouse. worthy said it was extremely difficult to get funding from the city to test the kits and carry out prosecutions, if possible. 
Jamaica 
conTinued From page 1 
said it was not the college’s deci­sion to postpone the trip. since the cdc did not place any restric­tions on travel, derakshani left the difficult decision to the direc­tors, she said. aaron bremyer said he and his wife felt it was their responsibility for the students’ safety to postpone the trip. 
“There are a lot of unknowns about the virus,” he said. “while the immediate risk might not be incredibly high, we don’t know potential long term risks.” 
according to the cdc web­site, if a pregnant woman con­tracts the virus, it can be passed to the fetus, which could cause major birth defects to the brain. however, the cdc is still unsure as to whether or not the virus will affect future pregnancies, the website said. 
with the program being part of an all-women college, this was one of the main factors taken into consideration when deciding to postpone the trip, aaron bremyer said. 
“nobody was interested. nobody wanted to help,” she said. “The police depart­ment wanted it to go away 
— it wasn’t on their watch. They didn’t care that it rep­resented 11,000 victims.” 
some of the rape kits dated back 35 years, according to worthy. she said while some women use the kits to make sure they’re not pregnant or have any sTds, most vic­tims do it because they want justice. 
“women do it because they want to find their per­petrator,” worthy said. “so, can you imagine finding out that, not only were you as­saulted, not only did you go through that rape kit pro­cess, but that rape kit sat on a shelf for 30 years and no­body did anything about it?” 
in order to form a more perfect union, worthy said the country needs to stop neglecting women’s is­sues, because they affect ever yone. 
“we have to break the do­mestic abuse cycle,” she said. “we have to break the sexual assault cycle. we have to look at sexual assault in a different way — it’s the for­gotten crime, no one really cares about it. if we want to have a more perfect union, we have to reexamine these issues, and it has to start with prosecutors.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
“The directors and the college need to feel extremely confident and assured people can be safe,” he said. “we can’t put students as risk.” 
sophomore maKayla roberts said she thinks the directors made the right decision. 
“i wasn’t too upset because i knew they did it for the safety of us,” roberts said. “They made the right call.” 
derakshani said she hopes the postponing of the trip will not make students fearful of studying abroad. 
“There’s always a lot of growing that happens when you go out of your comfort zone and discover new cultures and environments,” derakshani said. “There’s noth­ing like what you learn from studying abroad.” 
as of now, the directors intend to reschedule the trip for next summer. 
“my hope is that by then we will better understand the risks. it’s a very complicated issue,” aaron bremyer said. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 



INSIDE COLUMN 

A racial dialogue 
Justine Wang 
news writer 

This past week for spring break, i attended a social concerns seminar called “realities of race,” which brought a group of 10 stu­dents to st. louis, Ferguson and chicago, to meet with activists and their organizations, and to learn about the fight for racial justice in the united states. 
discussions about race and other social issues are hard. They are emotional, heartbreaking and exposing. most of the time, they are painful and awkward. immersed in a reflective dialogue on race, my peers and i cultivated a safe space for each other to share our ideas and thoughts, in order to unearth our covert biases and to speak about our struggles as members of different racial backgrounds. 
This safe space is what we need to create at notre dame, campus-wide. There have been attempts to tackle these discussions, yet the majority of the student body is not involved. worse, i believe that the way we conduct the dialogue compels many students to shy away from joining, because they fear being blamed for their privilege or are simply content with the status quo. 
what i have learned is that discussions on race are shaped by the collection of personal stories. as a systemic issue, race should not be viewed through an only-personal lens. There is the notion today that white people have to “check their privilege” and ideally, use their privilege to help people of color change the system. The system revolves around a myriad of multifaceted topics, including access to education, healthcare, transportation, housing, food and social services, among others. 
within the framework of “check your privilege,” however, little to no progress is made. under that saying, my white peers often feel as if they should feel guilty on behalf of their race, or that they are being targeted by the oppressed as being the sole reason that there is so much inequality in the system. 
however, those feelings of guilt that arise from blame suddenly make race a personal issue. when someone makes themselves the target of the race discussion — especially people who are not of color —they are making it personal, and about themselves, when it is not just about them. 
The discussion on race is made up of all the individual stories, the activism and the beautiful scars people of color bear from their bravery amidst their oppression. The intent of this discussion is to, at the very least, bring an awareness to the types of oppression that people of color face, if not to make tangible change in public policy and social systems. but this intent is diverted when people do not maintain a focused lens on the experiences of the op­pressed, or worse, actively choose to disengage themselves from the conversation. 
we need all of campus to be a safe space that allows people to reach beyond their comfort zones, to question the violence and hurt that systemic racism has brought about, and to productively speak in order to allow everyone to gain a better picture of the racialized world we live in. 
people of color are not anti-white. accept their frustrations and emotionally-charged protests against the system, because they have every right to combat the oppression they face. accept that this discussion will not be comfortable for any party involved, but in a safe space, it will feel raw and cathartic. The first and foremost goal, again, is to unearth and understand where our biases come from, and comprehend how they affect people of color. 
To combat dangerous stereotypes and biases, all students need to open their hearts to hearing the experiences of their peers. we all hold various types of privilege that come with a lot of power, but we can only begin to remove the prejudice from our lives and delve into the discussion on race, if we recognize that the goal of any social movement is not to guilt or to blame or to shame. it is important to recognize that everyone has very singular notions of their own ra­cial experiences and while they are linked by threads of similarity, every experience is very different. 
i hope that all students will adopt the mentality that it is our du­ties as members of a community of justice, diversity, and inclusion to begin to understand each other’s racial experiences. adopting that mentality is the first of many, many baby steps to achieve racial justice. only from there can we progress towards fighting for our own and each other’s freedoms. 
Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
laetare medal misstep 
Eddie Damstra 
dinner Table Talks 
earlier this month, the university of notre dame announced this year’s laetare medal re­cipients. according to the university website, the award, which has been awarded since 1883, “is presented annually to an american catholic in recognition of outstanding service to the church and society.” in order to emphasize its signifi­cance, the university website notes that the medal “is considered the oldest and most prestigious award for american catholics.” 
This year, the university of notre dame decided to give the prestigious laetare medal to two men: vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner. when i learned that Joe biden would be receiving the laetare medal, i was gravely disappointed. The decision to award biden upsets me and i am not even catholic. given that i am protestant, some may wonder why i am so passionately disappointed with the university’s decision. some may even question whether i have the right to judge the university’s decision. The reason for my disappointment is found in the de­cision’s inherent hypocrisy. one does not need to be catholic to recognize blatant inconsistencies between a description of an award and the words and actions of its recipient. 
while i recognize that Joe biden is a catholic who has garnered immense success within the american political system, i also am forced to acknowledge the fact that biden’s success is filled with support of ideas and legislation that are indisputably and absolutely opposed to basic catholic doctrine. Joe biden vocally supports the legality of abortion and has displayed so through his voting record. 
The national right to life committee, which rates politicians based on the degree to which they support legislation that protects the unborn, has given vice president biden extremely low rat­ings throughout his political career, often times rating his support for legislation protecting the unborn at zero percent. conversely, biden scored very high with the national abortion rights action league (naral) pro-choice america, often receiving ratings of 100 percent for support­ing legislation that furthered the pro-abortion cause. This voting record is in direct conflict with catholic doctrine. according to the catechism of the catholic church, “human life must be respected and protected absolutely from the mo­ment of conception. From the first moment of his existence, a human being must be recognized as having the rights of a person — among which is the inviolable right of every innocent being to life.” biden’s political history is not in line with this doctrine. Joe biden has chosen not to utilize his power and influence to protect the unborn. 
it is important to note that i do not intend for this article to be a political cheap shot at the vice president. my political affiliation has nothing to do with my disappointment with the university’s decision. i respect the vice president and do not doubt that he is a faithful catholic. however, the fact of the matter is Joe biden has endorsed a posi­tion that is against a fundamental moral principle of the church. while this obviously does not mean he can not be catholic, it does mean that he can not be awarded the “most prestigious award for american catholics.” i would love for the university to invite Joe biden to speak and engage in discussion, as that is the purpose of true educa­tion. however, presenting the vice president with the laetare medal is wrong, and it undermines the meaning of what the award represents. 
in addition to evaluating the university’s deci­sion to award Joe biden, it is also important to assess the decision to award the laetare medal to former speaker of the house John boehner. however, i believe that judging the decision to give the laetare medal to John boehner is much more difficult. while Joe biden’s political his­tory presents a rather stark divergence from the church on a core fundamental principle, the grievances many have with John boehner receiv­ing the award seem to center on issues that are less black and white in terms of church doctrine. 
some would argue that the former speaker is misaligned with the church on the issue of im­migration, maintaining that boehner is in favor of overly stringent immigration laws. others may insist that boehner’s position on social welfare programs are inconsistent with the church. 
given that i am not catholic, i find it hard to judge whether boehner’s positions are in line with the church. i do know that the catholic church, and christianity as a whole, is open to all and em­braces immigrants. i also know that many within the church disagree over what specific laws should be in place and how they should be en­forced. similarly, i know that the catholic church, and christianity as a whole, is devoted to serving the poor and disenfranchised. however, there are many disagreements amongst prominent catholics over the methods of serving the poor and the role government should play. social wel­fare programs and immigration policy are hotly debated within the catholic, and there is often not a clear answer. 
i do not know if John boehner is deserving of the laetare medal. being a part of a different sect of christianity makes it difficult for me to judge whether someone’s positions are in line with the catholic church unless there is explicit and gener­ally agreed-upon teaching on the matter. 
what i do know, however, is that Joe biden should not be given the laetare medal. The rea­son i am able to say so is due to the stark contrast between vice president biden’s support for abor­tion and the explicit and universally agreed-upon doctrine within the church that emphasizes the importance of protecting the unborn. i believe that an award that is, according to notre dame’s statement on the matter, supposed to honor those “whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the church and enriched the heritage of humanity” should not be bestowed upon an individual who actively promotes the legality of abortion. supporting and promoting legislation that is associated with the murders of thousands of innocent human lives each day is not enriching the “heritage of humanity” but rather harming it. 
Eddie Damstra is a freshman from Orland Park, Illinois. He is majoring in political science and is considering attending law school after his time as an undergraduate at the University of Notre Dame. He can be reached at edamstra@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


language evolves, and so should you 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 

every student has had that one english teacher who seemed to hate everything on this planet ex­cept shakespeare and bbc documentaries about shakespeare. This cranky anglophile professor likes to tell students that whatever they read is not “real literature,” that their music is not “real music” and often, that they way they speak is “wrong.” 
The “crap” (cranky anglophile professor) likes nothing better in life than critiquing other people’s grammar, syntax and spelling. assignments, even assignments by students who genuinely care and genuinely tried, are nothing more than a blank canvas on which they create a work to rival pollock with their beloved red pen. The crap, of course, thinks Jackson pollock’s works are “not art.” 
The crap hates all of their millennial students, and loves to go on rants about the technology-addicted and entitled millennial — of course, the crap ignores the fact that they raised their own millennial child by parking them in front of sesame street for six hours a day — and how our speaking and writing, and especially what we post on the internet, is “wrong.” 
so, here’s what this ignorant, technology-ad­dicted, entitled millennial has to say to all the big ol’ craps of the world: 
language evolves, and so should you. 
if you submitted some of shakespeare’s own writing to a crap, they would find grammar er­rors. The bard himself regularly uses who rather than whom to refer to the object of a sentence and often puts “more” in front of an adjective to make a comparative, rather than ending the word with –er. and those errors aren’t even his stylistic ones where he puts words in the wrong order, spells them wrong, uses them as an incorrect part of speech or just makes up new ones. 
and it’s not just shakespeare. The english teacher’s bible, The norton anthology, could be easily turned into a red-pen pollock if you held its works to modern standards. 
but of course, the crap would never do that. what we see as mistakes are not mistakes but words that have shifted meaning or spelling over time. or they’re intentional, like how Jane austen is allowed to start sentences with coordinating conjunctions but someone reading this will say that i’m a bad writer for starting my own sentenc­es with them. or how mark Twain can write using horrendous misspellings, but black or hispanic students can’t mix in aave or spanish in the classroom. 
now, i’m the first one in line, if such a line ex­isted, to say that grammar and spelling are im­portant. in fact, the other day, i went on a such a powerful rant about a certain grocery store’s department marker signs that a complete stranger told me it frustrated her, too, despite having never been to any of those grocery stores. 
but there’s a big difference between what those signs say and what my friends tweet: i don’t know what those department markers are supposed to be telling me but i do understand what my friends are saying. 
“proper” grammar, spelling and syntax only mean that the listener understands, properly, what the speaker is trying to say. language be­comes improper once we can’t understand what is being said. current “proper” language is con­sidered proper because we, the english speakers of the world, have decided on one set meaning. This is why it’s mostly okay to say “i laid down yesterday,” (technically incorrect) instead of “i lay down yesterday,” (technically correct). because mostly everyone still knows what i’m saying. 
language is like a big inside joke. if i raise my arms up and say, “it was like godzilla!” to my roommate, she knows that what i’m talking about was completely unexpected and inappropriate. but if i did that while explaining something to you, it would be, well, godzilla! 
it’s the same way that if someone in my gen­eration says, “eyebrows on fleek,” i know that they have nice, well-sculpted eyebrows, not that their eyebrows are resting atop an item called a “fleek.” Just like how someone who was a teenager or twenty-something in the 1970s has a different definition of “drop out” than i do. 
even though i know what “on fleek,” means, i’m still not going to use it in an essay. The reader of my essay, a professor, likely doesn’t know what it means; thus, it’s improper. plus, it’s internet slang: a type of word that is created, popularized, overused and abandoned quicker than language has ever done before. using words in an essay that were popular, then abandoned would be cray cray. 
so in some ways, i understand the crap. using slang, dialect expressions, misspellings or gener­ation-wide inside jokes in professional, academic settings means that your professors won’t under­stand what you’re trying to communicate. but hating a whole generation of students because they interact with language? now that’s just crap. 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. All she wants is for her cats to be proud of her someday. She can be reached at cphela01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Moving from words to actions 
This year has been an exciting time for sustain­ability on campus. laudato lunches, the climate investing conference, and a greend sustainability Festival are only a few examples of the variety of environmentally-themed events on campus. notre dame’s announcement to stop burning coal with­in five years is further encouragement that the university is acting on pope Francis’ call to care for our common home. There is much discussion of other initiatives and ideas that would build on this momentum to reduce notre dame’s carbon foot­print, yet there seems to be a roadblock in the way of the implementation of these ideals. 
my first example is fossil fuel divestment. university of dayton divested from fossil fuels in 2014, stating, “catholic higher education was founded to examine culture and find ways to ad­vance the common good. here is one way to lead as a good steward of god’s creation.” one year later, georgetown divested from the coal, citing catholic and Jesuit values. at mendoza’s climate investing conference in september, one panelist urged notre dame to take a leading role in acting on climate change by divesting from fossil fuels, stating it is our moral responsibility as a leading catholic university that we act in accordance with catholic social teaching in this way. however, dur­ing an energy week panel, the vp and Treasurer of exxon mobil called divestment efforts “pointless” because fossil fuels will still likely be in use in 50 years. while i understand he was simply trying to “get ahead” of anything that may “undermine” the notre dame-exxon mobil relationship, he failed to understand the mindset behind divestment. it is not to stop burning fossil fuels overnight, but rather, to make the statement that notre dame has a moral obligation to act on climate change, and therefore not invest in companies that most di­rectly contribute to it. pope Francis states that the use of “highly polluting fossil fuels … needs to be progressively reduced without delay.” This cannot happen when fossil fuel companies are so pow­erful that they can lobby politicians to promote legislation favoring fossil fuels, dissuade use of renewables and promote misinformation on cli­mate change. how can notre dame, as a catholic institution, support these companies when pope Francis calls on us to do all we can to pursue less carbon-intensive sources of energy? while notre dame has a financial obligation to its stakehold­ers, it also bears a responsibility to its students to promote a sustainable world. last year, university president Fr. John Jenkins stated it was hypocriti­cal to divest from fossil fuels when they are still in use. however, how can we expect a clean energy future if we do not take action to demand it? 
Fossil fuel divestment is not the only example of initiatives that have run into difficulty. some other examples are the removal of styrofoam and plastic cups from the dining hall and the tray-free campaign. despite the significant waste reduction from these initiatives, there is a student outcry. students, who have the most to lose from climate change and unsustainable practices, are com­plaining about initiatives that will serve to help their future. i understand — life is less convenient without these items. however, pope Francis states we need to shift away from a throwaway culture. our world simply cannot support the lifestyle we are living. we need to act, in however little ways, to reduce our carbon footprint, for the good of our­selves, and our common home. These sustainable initiatives are not out to make life more difficult for us, but rather, to encourage a lifestyle that will make the future better for all. 
while notre dame has taken significant strides towards sustainability, it is not yet a leader. however, with a campus full of passionate and motivated individuals, i have no doubt that it can be. The discussions brought about this year by the center for social concerns’ theme of “care of creation” have shown that we have the ability. now, it is simply a matter of action. 
Tessa Clarizio 
greend president Feb. 7 



LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 




By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

what do you get when you give eight comedians creative free reign and netflix’s budget and platform? “The characters,” an eight episode sketch-based com­edy series (with set-ups much better than this one) was released march 11. 
netflix has sponsored stand-up specials before, but this series sees the platform investing in comedy at an even more involved level. where the stand-up sets they’ve hosted before stand alone, the project works as a collection of comedians and content united in hi­larity but not much else. The format is conducive to a wine tasting, a deviation from the normal netflix binge model. The sampling encourages discernment, ranking and an open mind. 
each of the episodes starts out with a tracking shot at a microphone poised in front of an empty audience and travels backstage to the central comedian’s dress­ing room door, where it lapses into a march madness bracket-esque title sequence — perhaps the format­ting is meant to prompt viewers to select a winner from the contest of episodes. 
Touted as sketch comedy, the show’s stars took unique approaches to the vague outlines. From henry Zebrowski’s “a christmas carol”-esque character 
By KATHY MINKO 
scene writer 

in the series’ 20th season finale, “The bachelor” did not disappoint. unfortunately for me, as i had to work on monday night, i could not watch the final episode until Tuesday. despite knowing the outcome going into the episode, the cast kept me — as well as millions of other men and women, i’m sure — on edge through its entirety. 
Two women poured their hearts out to one man, com­peting for a chance to see his knee hit the ground with a ring in hand. one was lauren b., a cute flight attendant from marino del ray, california, who had attracted bachelor ben higgins from the first episode. Through the entire series, ben and lauren maintained a strong connection. From running off together for some one­on-one time away from cocktail parties to ben admit­ting he’s been in love with lauren “for quite some time now,” the pair share a bond obvious and envied by her competitors. 
lauren, whom ben showed his favorite hometown youth club, met the bachelor’s parents at the begin­ning of the episode. Though ben described lauren as a beautiful woman with a kind heart, his mom expressed a different opinion — she worried that the pair hadn’t experienced enough raw, emotional moments to know how each other deals with stress. 
JoJo — a beautiful real-estate developer — became higgins’ best friend, go-to and confidant through the last few weeks of the series. in the season finale, he em­phasized her ability to take the stress and craziness away from his life as the bachelor. 
as JoJo’s talk with ben’s mom progressed during the episode, mrs. higgins grew quickly attached. she latched visitation bits to dr. brown’s episode filmed in an iñárritu-inspired single tracking shot where he shuf­fles amongst three varied characters via fluid costume changes, the show pushes boundaries and conven­tions. each comedian was able to develop a wide range of developed characters. multiplied by eight, “The characters” provides ample material for spin-offs. 
There were played-out selections: lauren lapkus as an insufferably nasally foundation- and bottom-heavy bachelorette, Kate berlant as an artist attempting to stay relevantly eccentric while working on corporate decorations and John early as a deadbeat bro on a date. however, each comedian brought intricacies to the characters that kept them from feeling trite, or at least used them to further more original aspects of the plots. 
on the other hand, most characters were refresh­ingly original and expressed the innovative writing each comedian brought to the series: down’s blind segway detective, Zebrowski’s friend-zoned caveman and natasha rothwell’s homeless man who threatens to spoil the books people are reading on the subway with his extensive reading from time spent at the air-conditioned public library. 
some of the characters would prove hard to sus­tain in the way “portlandia” has evolved its recurring sketch-based character dynamics; others beg for more 
onto JoJo’s awareness of ben’s insecurities — after all, the contestant admitted to having gone through some hard conversations with the bachelor already. 
“i really felt early on in the day that ben felt really hap­py, really comfortable, really excited to see JoJo,” mrs. higgins said. “when we had the opportunity to talk, JoJo had this ability to know what it was going to take for ben to feel safe.” 
when asked her number one choice for ben, mrs. higgins admitted that JoJo would suit her son well, both in good times and hardships. 
ben’s clouded feelings only worsened through the epi­sode. struggling with both lauren’s and JoJo’s final one­on-one dates, the bachelor tried and failed to find faults in either woman. 
spoiler alert — lauren b. received the final rose. looking back, i am sure many viewers could have pre­dicted such a result after watching the pair’s relationship blossom faster than any other contestant. before the fi­nale’s premiere, i heard so many predictions in favor of lauren b. heck, i even heard some team-JoJo members admit that lauren and ben will most likely end up to­gether. so, why did this episode pack such a large punch? why couldn’t i pull myself away from my computer screen? what drew viewers into what chris harrison no­toriously refers to as the most “dramatic season finale” thus far? 
simple. he loved two women … and he wasn’t afraid to share it. 
For the first time in the show’s history, the bachelor told two women that he loved them. his constant strug­gle between whom he loved more kept viewers glued the entire time. even more shocking, ben actually admitted to JoJo his love for lauren. as soon as those words came out, my jaw dropped, sure that there was some mistake screen time. The structure of the series allows viewers to choose the “next generation” comedians they relate to and follow their brand for continued characters. as such, netflix is acting as a platform for discovery and offshoots, and not a beckoning consolidator. 
although there were a few cringe-worthy aspects to the series, it proved highly self-aware. Zebrowski in brown face proved the most worrisome; however, his entitled scrooge character tells him, “here’s a tip: stop being brown” — channeling his character’s cur­mudgeonly attitude to address the alarming character choice. The character who serves as his clairvoyant ad­dressed his own “racist accent” as Zebrowski begged him to “do the grinch s---.” The self-cognizance also surfaces in paul w. down’s (Troy on “broad city”) epi­sode as his girlfriend (abbi Jacobsen) tells him, “blind jokes are never funny,” before the episode continues with down’s blind segway detective character in­specting crimes with his heightened other senses. 
if you’re looking to find your next favorite comedi­an (and you’ve already read scene’s top picks), “The characters” proves a viable way to access a variety of styles and narrow down your favorites in a scene­esque march madness showdown. (note: natasha rothwell won my bracket.) 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
in the outcome. ben acknowledged his love for another woman openly to JoJo, and for some reason, i took that honesty as a sure sign ben would choose her. The pair had yet another emotionally raw conversation. where was this from lauren? why didn’t she ask the difficult questions? 
unfortunately, the results were right. 
while i do adore lauren — she is so sweet and genu­inely loves ben — i didn’t gather the level of depth so ap­parent in his and JoJo’s relationship. 
with my palms sweaty, knees weak and arms heavy, i watched ben say goodbye to JoJo the next morning. Though my heart — as well as many others’ — broke to witness her reaction, i did appreciate the pair’s maturity. more importantly, i appreciated the respect they showed one another in the post-interview. most importantly, i appreciated JoJo’s nomination as “The bachelorette” for next season. 
The last good-bye spoken, ben watched lauren b. meet him at the boardwalk. They looked into each other’s eyes, confessed their love and sealed the deal. happily engaged and excited for the years to come, the former bachelor and his fiancée left to celebrate, happier than ever. 
was the show’s 20th season finale really that surpris­ing? did it live up to our expectations as the most dramat­ic season finale yet? while the episode brought surprises and kept viewers on edge, it yielded a commonly predict­ed result. looking back, i can definitely see ben’s love for lauren develop from day one, and maybe that’s what is best when looking for a wife. he remains biased and loy­al to his fiancée throughout the season. with that said, i did appreciate the finale’s natural outcome. 
Contact Kathy Minko at kminko@nd.edu 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY  SPRING | riley mccurrie 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you’ll have to look at every situation you face from many different angles. consequences should be examined, and a well-thought-out plan should be put in place before you jump into action. slow, methodical maneuvers will help you move in a direction that will help you secure the things that mean the most to you. your numbers are 7, 12, 19, 24, 31, 38, 44. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): acting in haste will lead to unforeseen problems. bide your time and plan your strategy before you set foot in the ring. it’s important to be prepared instead of caught off guard. do your best and you’ll have no regrets. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): move forward with poise and confidence. look for a different way to handle an ongoing conflict, and you will make headway. greater opportunities for personal and professional gains will be 
apparent. love is in the stars and will bring you peace and happiness. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): stick to one task at a time and don’t move on until you finish what you start. you will be criticized if you are too permissive or extravagant. use your skills to make a positive difference in the world. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): express your likes and dislikes and you will get results. your ability to clearly explain situations and circumstances to others will boost your reputation and put you in a good position when you need a favor in return. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get moving. discipline and hard work should be your priority and completion your goal. you can bring about positive changes and make a difference if you are proactive. making a promise will strengthen your commitment and dedication. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look at what you have done and what you want to achieve, and you will find a way to reach your goals. expressing your feelings will help alleviate any tension that is building up and put uncertainty to rest. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t bend under pressure. a change doesn’t have to be bad. put a positive spin on whatever is unfolding around you, and you will overcome any pitfalls that stand in your way. make a positive move and put your own needs first. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): expansion, expression and excitement will fill your day if you are open to new ideas, concepts and possibilities. spending time with someone who offers love, guidance and is willing to share in your fight will bring you closer together. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t share personal information or get involved in secretive groups or plans that could put you in a precarious position. stick to a simple and straightforward lifestyle and look out for poor influences and indulgent pastimes. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take charge and make a change that will ease your stress. spend more time with the people you love, and do the things that bring you joy. a change of attitude will push you in the right direction. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): an open and honest look at who you are, what you’ve accomplished and where you are heading will help you put things in perspective and guide you toward an important decision regarding your future. Follow your heart. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): do something nice for someone and you will get something nice in return. show empathy and understanding, and offer guidance and positive affirmation that things can change if the right steps are taken. you can make a difference. romance is encouraged. 


Birthday Baby: you are precise, detailed and accommodating. you are flexible and adventuresome. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

change hits broncos hard 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
it has been quite a month for the denver broncos. 
last month they defeated the carolina panthers in super bowl 50, 24-10, and were on top of the football world. now it looks like they are free-falling back down to earth. 
last monday, as was ex­pected, quarterback peyton manning announced his retire­ment. despite quarterbacking his team to a title, manning had one of his worst seasons as a professional last year with the broncos, posting career lows in passing touchdowns (9), completions (198), and quarterback rating (67.9). manning was sidelined for part of the year with a foot injury and replaced by backup brock osweiler, who showed flashes of brilliance during his time in relief of manning and led the broncos to five wins in his sev­en games started. The theory was osweiler would step in and take over the broncos starting quarterback job when manning retired. 
but in a move that virtu­ally no one expected, osweiler left the broncos and signed a four-year, $72 million con­tract with the houston Texans when nFl free agency began last wednesday. suddenly, the broncos quarterback situa­tion, which had been stable the previous four years, had been thrown into flux. 
reports broke out before osweiler signed with the Texans that if he were to leave, the broncos were prepared to attempt to trade for 49ers quarterback colin Kaepernick. but then Kaepernick expressed a desire to be traded to the cleveland browns and play for their new coach, hue Jackson. 
instead of quarterbacking the defending super bowl champi­ons, Kaepernick said he would rather play for the browns. 
Then, last Friday, the broncos traded a conditional draft pick to the philadelphia eagles in exchange for quarterback mark sanchez. yes, that mark sanchez. The quarterback, most remembered for the infa­mous “butt Fumble” play dur­ing his time with the new york Jets, who served as a backup for the eagles the past two seasons. 
now, the broncos are cur­rently negotiating a potential deal with veteran quarter­back ryan Fitzpatrick, who spent last year as the new york Jets starting quarterback. but reports are saying that Fitzpatrick’s asking price is “too high” for the broncos, and he might sign elsewhere. 
That’s right folks. ryan Fitzpatrick is considered too expensive to quarterback the defending super bowl champions. 
but the broncos have more problems than just those at quarterback. Their defense last year was the best in the league and considered to be the driv­ing force behind their super bowl victory. but a few pieces of that defense have left via free agency in the last week, including linebacker danny Trevathan who signed with the chicago bears, defensive end malik Jackson, who signed with the Jacksonville Jaguars, and safety david bruton, who signed with the washington redskins. 
and the exodus may not be over just yet. other key broncos who could potentially leave in free agency are linebackers brandon marshall and Todd davis, safety Josh bush and guard evan mathis. 
in a month, the broncos went from having a legendary quarterback and historically-strong defense leading them to a super bowl victory to having possibly mark sanchez or ryan Fitzpatrick leading the offense and a defense that continues to be gutted. hopefully, John elway and company know what they’re doing. 
who knows? maybe Fitzpatrick or sanchez will step in and operate well in head coach gary Kubiak’s system and lead the broncos, with a weaker but still strong defense, back into super bowl contention. 
one thing is for certain though: no team this year has had a free agent period quite like the denver broncos have. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

MLB | yanKees 2, blue Jays 1 
gardner hitless in return; yankees beat Toronto 2-1 
Associated Press 
brett gardner went 0 for 2 in his first spring train­ing game of the year, starlin castro hit a two-run homer and made a nifty defensive play and the new york yankees beat the Toronto blue Jays 2-1 wednesday night. 
gardner played five innings in left field. he hit a grounder and struck out in his first game since bruising his left wrist in last year’s al wild-card loss to houston. 
“The results weren’t great, but i felt good,” gardner said. 
castro hit an opposite-field drive to right off drew hutchison and made a run­ning grab in shallow right on Kevin pillar’s pop fly. acquired from the chicago cubs in december, castro moved from shortstop to second base last season and played 38 games at the position. 
“i think he’s doing pretty good,” yankees manager Joe girardi said. “we’ve been pleased with him so far at sec­ond base. i think he’s done a really good job, worked ex­tremely hard. The transition for him i don’t think is going to be a problem.” 
hutchison, bidding for the fifth starter spot, allowed two runs and four hits in 4 2-3 innings. 
“i think i’ve been throw­ing the ball well,” hutchison said. “i’ve been accomplish­ing the things i wanted to accomplish.” 
nathan eovaldi struck out two and walked two over two hitless innings in his second spring training appearance for the yankees since his sea­son was cut short after a sept. 5 start due to right elbow inflammation. 
“my arm felt great,” eovaldi said. “i thought my pitches were good. worked a lot on the counts.” 
Starting time 

hutchison and eovaldi also faced each other last Thursday. The Toronto right-hander al­lowed a run and three hits in 2 2-3 innings. “he’s looked very good this spring,” blue Jays manager John gibbons said. eovaldi retired all six batters he faced Thursday. 
Trainer’s room 

blue Jays: marco estrada (sore back) was fine, one day after a minor league game in which he struck out four in two innings. gibbons said it hasn’t been determined if estrada’s next start will be in a minor or major league game. 
yankees: c brian mccann missed his second straight game with a bruised left knee but is scheduled to play Thursday against pittsburgh. ... alex rodriguez said he was oK after being hit by a pitch on his left foot during the sixth. 
Tobacco-Free 
The yankees had a sign posted in the clubhouse of­fering nicotine replacement therapy supplies — gum, loz­enges or patches — for players and staff. smokeless tobacco is now banned at stadiums in boston, san Francisco and los angeles. “it’s not healthy, it’s dangerous,” said girardi, who expects the list of chewing to­bacco-free stadiums to rise. 
Up next 
blue Jays: Toronto has a split-squad Thursday with brad penny starting against houston. scott diamond will face Team canada. 
yankees: masahiro Tanaka will look to extend his spring training stretch of five shut­out innings in his third start Thursday against the pirates. luis severino also is sched­uled to pitch. 

NBA | horneTs 107, magic 99 
hornets close strong homestand with win 
Associated Press 
The charlotte hornets have proven they’re a good nba team at home. 
now they want to show they can win big games on the road, beginning Thursday night against the miami heat. 
The hornets closed out a 6-1 homestand by beating the orlando magic 107-99 on wednesday behind 26 points apiece from marvin williams and nicolas batum. 
“The homestand was huge,” williams said. “guys were really looking forward to it. we’ve got to take this show back on the road and hope­fully we can play with the same intensity.” 
The hornets (38-29) have 15 games left, but only five at home. so they’ll have to be solid on the road if they plan to clinch a second playoff berth in three seasons. 
charlotte is 26-10 at home this season and would like to land home-court advantage for a playoff series. 
That is what makes the heat game so big. 
The hornets are one game behind miami for the fourth-best record in the eastern conference. miami holds a 2-1 series lead, so there are potential tiebreaker implica­tions at stake. 
“if you look at the last 10 years, 75 percent of the home teams win in the first round,” hornets coach steve clifford said. “The only seed­ing that’s not where the home team didn’t win the most was the 4-5. ... we have to con­centrate. That to me is the carrot.” 
williams added nine re­bounds and four 3-pointers, while batum had nine assists and seven rebounds for the hornets, who have won 14 of their last 17. cody Zeller had his fourth double-double of the season with 13 points and 13 rebounds. 
Kemba walker chipped in with 16 points and eight rebounds. 
The hornets led by as many as 26 in the second half after starting the game missing 11 of its first 12 3-pointers. 
The hornets didn’t let up, pushing the lead to 18 at the break behind batum’s 16 first-half points and eight assists. 
orlando cut the lead to 105­99 with less than 2 minutes left, with andrew nicholson taking over in the low post and devyn marble knock­ing down a pair of 3s. but victor oladipo missed a pull-up jumper from 18 feet and batum scored on a layup to push the lead to eight and es­sentially seal the victory. 
“They just kind of turned it up on both ends,” magic coach scott skiles said. “They started getting real aggressive offensively and driving the ball and that led to spread­ing the floor and making 3s. defensively they kind of got up, got into us and during that stretch we missed some good looks, too. we just flat missed them. 
“you have to be able to put your foot down and some­body’s got to make a big bas­ket for you or a big defensive play and kind of get a run go­ing of your own. This is some­thing we’ve really struggled with.” 



The observer | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SMC SOFTBALL 

belles get off to a strong start 
Observer Staff Report 
The belles (8-3) returned from their spring break trip to clermont, Florida with eight wins in a total of 11 games. 
saint mary’s started the week on a strong note with three consecutive wins. The belles took down saint Joseph’s (maine) on march 6 in an 11-2 rout and went on to beat bethany by a score of 7-1 later that day. The belles maintained a con­sistently strong offensive presence, while also hold­ing their opponents to a to­tal of three runs on the first day of games. Four players had multiple hits against bethany (4-8), led by soph­omore makenzie duncan, who went 3-3, including a two-run home-run. senior catcher Jillian busfield led the belles’ offense against saint Joseph’s (5-5), knock­ing in two rbis. 
sophomore pitcher mary green got the 11-5 win against ohio wesleyan on march 7, while the offense was spurred forward by an early charge. The belles scored five runs in the first inning with the aid of a wild pitch. 
The belles’ first loss of the week came later that day to wittenberg, falling 7-4. The belles’ starting pitcher, se­nior sarah burke, gave up five earned runs over the course of her six innings, including two home runs. The belles entered the sev­enth inning down by six, and were able to make a three-run charge, but the deficit proved to be too much to overcome. 
saint mary’s bounced back from the loss, completely controlling its first game the following day. The belles faced off against lancaster bible and dominated, win­ning 11-0. pitchers Jessica alberts, a sophomore, and freshman Zoe bruni, put up a strong showing, giving up a total of one hit. The team got off to a quick start offen­sively, scoring three times in the first inning. however, they broke the game open in third inning, scoring seven runs off of doubles by soph­omores Jamie young and Kelsey richards. 
The belles’ second game of the day was more closely contested, but they were able to outlast misericordia 8-7. Three players had multi­ple hits in the game, but the crucial difference was the belles’ ability to close out innings. They left only three players on base, compared to the cougars’ eight. 
once again, the belles be­gan the next day by domi­nating cornell college 8-0 and finished the day with a come-from-behind victory against the sage colleges, 6-5. against the rams (6-4), the belles’ nine hits result­ed in six earned runs. saint mary’s’ starting pitcher, sophomore morgan raymer, gave up one hit in her five innings. in the second game, the gators (3-7) entered the bottom of the sixth inning with a 5-2 lead. however, an error allowed the belles to gain some momentum and score four runs to take the lead and win the game. 
Thursday brought a dou­ble-header against alfred, which the teams ended up halving. The belles took the first game against the saxons (8-4) with a score of 7-5. duncan scored three runs and had two rbis, while busfield and senior Kayla chapman also drove in two runs each. The saxons won the second game 13-8, but the belles’ offense was still able to maintain its mo­mentum from the rest of the tournament. young drove in three runs, but the belles were plagued by errors in the sixth inning and gave up seven runs. 
saint mary’s finished its trip with a second consecu­tive loss, 4-2, in a rematch with st. Joseph’s. The belles offense struggled against the monks. only five belles players had hits in the game and none had multiple hits. 
coming off of their road trip, the belles will take on wheaton in south bend at st. Joseph’s high school at 2 
p.m. this saturday. 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 


NBA | warriors 121, KnicKs 85 
Warriors grab 61st win against reeling Knicks 
Associated Press 
oaKland, calif. — stephen curry scored 34 points and the golden state warriors ex­tended their record regular-season home winning streak to 50 games with a 121-85 victory over the new york Knicks on wednesday night. 
curry shot 8 for 13 from long range and 12 of 20 from the floor overall before sitting out the fourth quarter with his team up big. The reigning mvp hit 3-pointers on three straight possessions late in the first quarter and on two in a row at the end of the third as the warriors improved to 32-0 at oracle arena this season. 
Klay Thompson scored 19 points with five 3s and marreese speights added 13 with three 3s off the bench as golden state (61-6) stayed one game ahead of the 1995-96 bulls’ pace in their record 72-win season. 
carmelo anthony had 18 points, six rebounds and six as­sists for the Knicks. 
curry banked in an off-bal­ance 3 as the shot clock expired late in the third, then hit one from the baseline moments later. already the first player in nba history with 300 3s dur­ing a season, he has 330 with 15 games to go. 
draymond green, who had a triple-double at new york on Jan. 31 in which he made all nine of his field goals, finished with six points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists. 
during one stretch, the warriors had four 3s in five trips down the floor late in the first and made eight straight shots to build a commanding lead they never relinquished in a fourth straight victory against the Knicks. golden state wound up 18 for 37 from deep, 48.6 percent. 
with his 1,518th 3 late in the second quarter, curry moved past mike bibby (1,517) for 24th place on the nba career list. 
Pressure Cooker 

The second time around is harder, warriors coach steve Kerr knows that much. even with his loose, winning bunch. 
everything was a first for golden state a year ago, from winning that elusive champi­onship for the franchise’s first title in 40 years during Kerr’s first season as coach. 
all the records this season and pressure to win another trophy while getting every team’s best each night, it can be a tough grind for his team. 
“This year feels a little more tiresome,” Kerr said. “it wears you down. ... Trying to give them time off at the right time, trying to keep the practices short and sweet and not over­whelming them with too many film sessions and that kind of stuff.” 
Tip-Ins 
Knicks: new york has lost 21 of the last 27 to golden state. ... The Knicks formally signed g Tony wroten but coach Kurt rambis said wroten won’t join the team until after the season. “we’ll see what he can bring in summer league,” rambis said. 
warriors: speights hit two or more 3s in a game for the fifth time in his career and fourth this season. ... F Kevon looney had an mri exam that re­vealed right hip inflammation. he won’t go on the upcoming three-game road trip. “we’re disappointed he’s had a little setback,” Kerr said. g andre iguodala (sprained left ankle) and c Festus ezeli (left knee surgery) also won’t travel. ezeli is scheduled to be re-evaluated next week. ... golden state plays at san antonio on saturday in a back-to-back during a quick three-game road trip and has lost 32 straight games. 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | The observer 




ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

irish finish fourth in arizona 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
The irish overcame a weak start to reach a fourth-place fin­ish with a score of 10-over par 874 at the clover cup in mesa, arizona this past weekend. irish head coach susan holt said she was pleased with the experience of the team’s fifth year hosting the tournament. 
“it was a great opportunity for us,” holt said. “we know the weather is going to be good this time of year and we can get a full week of practice in. and it’s a tournament round as well, so it’s great to host and be a part of that.” 
The team began with a shaky first round on Friday. Freshman isabella dilisio was the team’s top player on day one with a one-under par 71. senior captain Talia campbell shot a two-over-par 74, while freshmen emma albrecht and maddie rose hamilton, and junior Jordan Ferreira all fin­ished with matching scores of 77. holt said her players spent extra time on the driving range and putting green following the first round. 
“i think the bright spot was they did a good job overcoming the disappointment of the first round,” holt said. “we got our­selves in a hole that was really tough to dig out of, but i thought they really made an effort to do that. They played two more good rounds, and we had a lot of good contributions across the roster.” 
The three teams ahead of the irish were smu with a six-under par 858, Tcu at a two-over par 866, and oklahoma at a nine-over par 873. only one stroke separated the sooners and the irish. holt said she considered the tournament challenging but doable, but was frustrated with notre dame’s final finish. 

“on paper we definitely should have won the tourna­ment,” holt said. “but that’s golf, you know. we’ve got really good players, but we had a hard time with poor scores … it happens [and] it just so happened it all happened on the same day. we had a couple kids that took bad swings on a few holes. we had a couple kids who would probably make different decisions as far as they were planning to attack the golf course, if they had to do it over again. The adjustments were just a little too late.” 
campbell had her fourth top­10 finish of the season, coming in at ninth place with an even-par 
216. hamilton closed strong for the irish with a pair of birdies on her last two holes, and hit a 69 on the final round to rise to a 17th­place tie at four-over par 220. 
looking ahead, holt said the team will try to improve before its next event. 
“The goal of the break was to get good solid practice in, and i just hope that will start to pay dividends as we look ahead to this busy month,” holt said. “all of our players have things they need to work on. we’re focusing on those little things to fine tune as we get ready for next weekend at lsu.” 
notre dame will go on the road again for the lsu Tiger classic in baton rouge, louisiana on sunday. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles start strong in Florida over break 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
sports writer 
saint mary’s won three of four contests in a series of dual matches in haines city, Florida over spring break. 
in their first match on march 7 against ottawa university, the belles (6-2) tied in singles competition at three games apiece, but lost in doubles 1-2. saint mary’s head coach dale campbell said al­though the team did not come out with the win, it displayed mental toughness in the close contest. 
“in hindsight, that first match could have gone either way,” campbell said. “we lost a tie-breaker at number three doubles, and we won a tie­breaker in singles. so, that match just came down to a few points. we also played re­ally well in some matches and didn’t have our best game in others. we feel like our team was not affected greatly by the loss, but i think they were disappointed. 
“we feel like we are mental­ly strong and we have won 11 out of 13 tie-breakers in close matches, so we are proving to play well in close situations.” 
on march 8, the belles proved victorious in an­other close match against oglethorpe. Tied 3-3 af­ter the singles matches, the belles pulled through to win 2-1 in doubles competition. campbell said it is close games like these which are most in­dicative for the season ahead. 
“i think the 5-4 matches certainly give you some in­dication [of how the season will turn out],” campbell said. “and maybe those opponents will be similar to the top teams in our conference.” 
The next day, saint mary’s defeated ohio wesleyan 7-2, as the belles were victorious in all three doubles flights and four of six singles matches. The continued development and chemistry of the doubles teams is crucial to the team’s overall play, campbell said. 
“i think it definitely pro­vides us with momentum go­ing into singles and it does show excellent teamwork with our players which is very im­portant,” campbell said. 
To wrap up their week, the belles added a 7-2 vic­tory over bryn mawr on march 11. as in the match against ohio wesleyan, the team won all of its doubles matches and clinched the vic­tory by winning 4-2 in singles competition. 
campbell said the team has been consistent with their individual contributions. he highlighted the play of junior samantha setterblad, as well as the skills of sophomore maddie minaudo, who earned the michigan intercollegiate athletic association women’s tennis player of the week award on monday. 
“i think [the team is] about where i thought, but i was very impressed with maddie minaudo being undefeated in both singles and doubles,” campbell said. “samantha setterblad also won three matches in tie-breakers, 4-0 in singles, and that was an impressive performance in a clutch situation.” 
campbell said he is looking for continued improvement in the belles’ upcoming match against augustana. 
“we definitely want our dou­bles teams to set each other up even more for finishes at the net, and to play aggressive as we approach our toughest opponents,” he said. “we also want to get better in singles, as it will be tougher against our top three or four conference opponents.” 
on saturday, saint mary’s faces augustana at the south bend racquet club at 11 a.m. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 

NBA | clippers 122, rocKeTs 106 
Redick leads Clippers to win over Houston 
Associated Press 
deandre Jordan had 23 points and 14 rebounds, and the los angeles clippers opened up a large halftime lead and never relented en route to a 122-106 victory over the houston rockets on wednesday night. 
Jordan finished 8 of 8 from the floor, with six dunks. JJ redick added 25 points, in­cluding 14 in the first quarter, going 5 of 9 from the 3-point line. 
chris paul had 15 points and 15 assists for the clippers (43-24), who shot 56 percent. Jamal crawford had 14 points and seven assists; and luc mbah a moute, austin rivers and wesley Johnson each had 12 points as the clippers snapped a two-game skid. 
James harden led houston (34-34) with 33 points. michael beasley had 16 points and eight rebounds off the bench for the rockets, who shot 49 percent. 
Trevor ariza also had 16 points for houston, which was 9 of 25 on 3-pointers and shot 71 percent from the free throw line. 
Trailing 101-77 with 11 min­utes left in the game, houston outscored the clippers 23­10 to cut the lead to 11 on montrezl harrell’s dunk with 
4:34 left. however, redick an­swered with a 3-pointer with 
3:40 remaining to push the lead back to 14 and houston got no closer than 12 the rest of the way. 
The clippers started the second quarter with a 21-7 spurt to open a 56-33 lead with 6:45 left in the half on rivers’ 3-pointer. crawford and Johnson each had six points in the run. 
los angeles pushed the lead to as many as 24 and led 72-50 at the half. The 72 points were the most the clippers have scored in a half this season. 
Tip-ins 
clippers: paul pierce scored seven points in 18 minutes. pierce had missed the previous three games with a sore right big toe. . los angeles signed center Jeff ayres for the rest of season, the team announced wednesday. . The clippers’ last loss in the second night of a back-to-back was dec. 19 at houston. 
rockets: Jason Terry had 11 points. . dwight howard had six points and seven rebounds. . houston gave away James harden “weird beards” to the first 15,000 fans. The fake beard was colored pink and was given away with gummy candy shaped beards. 
Hack-a-jordan 
houston started fouling Jordan with two minutes to go in the first half and he went 3 of 6 from the line. houston fouled Jordan again with 7:46 left in the third quarter, and Jordan made both. 
Up next 
clippers: Travel to memphis on saturday. 
rockets: host minnesota on Friday. 


W Lax 
conTinued From page 16 
response. “a goal of ours is to get better every day. and it might be simplistic, but it’s something that we’ve really focused on, and the girls to their credit are the ones that show up every day thinking about, ‘how can i improve a piece of my game? how can we improve a piece of our holistic approach?,’ and i think that’s something we have been able to hang our hat on.” 
as for notre dame’s op­ponent, the cavaliers (4-4, 0-2 acc) have trended in the opposite direction lately, losing three straight games 
— the most recent a double-overtime defeat at the hands of no. 4 north carolina. halfpenny said virginia has had younger players move into larger roles this season. 
“They graduated a lot,” halfpenny said. “That said, they’ve had no problem with kids stepping up, putting up numbers for them as well as kids that were younger last year that are stepping into the bigger roles.” 
while in the eyes of most, notre dame is led by its two Tewaarton award can­didates — junior attack cortney Fortunato, who leads the nation with 31 goals, and graduate student defender barbara sullivan, who is second in the country with 30 forced turnovers — halfpenny said this irish squad is a collective effort. 
“every member of this 32-player team — and i would say all the way down to every staff member that’s been involved, anyone that has had five minutes with this group has a great handle on the desire, the determi­nation and the drive behind this unit,” she said. 
while she has a veteran unit, the irish head coach praised her freshman class for contributing to this team’s identity. 
“every class has brought something special,” halfpenny said. “i just overheard someone say the freshmen ignited this pas­sion because they love the game so much and their naïve bliss. … [it] got the seniors even more excited about their ultimate goal, which is to get to the Final Four, to get farther than this program has gotten in their time.” 
saturday’s game carries more meaning than the result for notre dame or virginia, as the irish are set to host their first Friends of victoria game, raising awareness for relationship violence. 
The Friends of victoria foundation honors victoria mcmanus, senior defender Katherine mcmanus’ sister, who was murdered by her ex-boyfriend in 2014, giving notre dame a way to rally around a teammate’s family. 

“i think it’s really huge,” halfpenny said of the event. “obviously, Katherine mcmanus, being a senior for us and many of us liv­ing through one of the worst tragedies anyone — friend, sister, daughter, mother 
— could even imagine. we were all affected by the trag­edy and the relationship vi­olence that took someone’s life [from] us, so for us to rally around Katherine, this is part of us giving back to the mcmanus family for so much they’ve given us, re­ally, by giving us Katherine for four years.” 
greendot and the one love Foundation, found­ed to celebrate the life of virginia women’s lacrosse player yeardley reynolds love, who was murdered by her ex-boyfriend in 2010, will also be involved in saturday’s game, which starts at 2 p.m. mcmanus was the recipient of the foundation’s 2015 award, which is presented to col­lege lacrosse’s unsung hero. 
“For us, this is all about education, it’s all about awareness, it’s all about support,” halfpenny said. “so we’re really excited about our inaugural event and this becoming a yearly and annual thing for us.” 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu 

CAITLYN JORDAN| The Observer 
Senior attack Kiera McMullan carries the ball during Notre Dame’s 14-4 win over Colorado on Feb. 26. at Arlotta Stadium. McMullan has 11 goals and five assists so far this season. 

M Lax 
conTinued From page 16 

amount of virginia’s offense, which averages 10.86 goals a game, but against notre dame’s defense, which con­cedes just 6.2 goals per game, virginia will have a tough time putting the ball in the net. 
notre dame will also have an opportunity to pounce of virginia’s suspect defense, which has allowed 10.7 goals per game. The cavaliers have let their opponents outscore them through the first three periods 58-52. sophomore at­tack mikey wynne and junior midfielder sergio perkovic, who have scored a combined 26 goals this season, lead a notre dame offense that has outscored its opponents 54-31. 
on the defensive end, the irish are led by doss and se­nior all-american defense-man matt landis. doss, who averages 8.8 saves per game and collected a usila player of the week honor after a 12-7 victory over georgetown on February 20, stressed the importance of learning from the team’s mistakes. in their double-overtime loss to denver, doss said the irish failed to capitalize on their opportunities, and he under­stands making the same mis­takes against a conference opponent could prove prob­lematic on saturday. 
“we’ve gone over our mis­takes and looked at the spe­cifics of what went wrong, but overall, we feel that we just didn’t make quite enough plays to win the game against denver,” doss said. “we will probably get a chance to play them again down the road so, for now, we are moving on to virginia and continuing to try to get better every day.” 
notre dame, who has not lost back-to-back games since it lost two straight to syracuse and duke in 2014, will host virginia on saturday at 6 p.m. at arlotta stadium. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | THURSDAY, MARCH 17, 2016 | The observer 



ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish travel to Atlanta for NCAA championship 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to com­pete in the women’s ncaa swimming and diving championship this week­end at the georgia Tech campus recreation center in atlanta. The champion­ship meet will take place over a three day period be­ginning on Thursday. 
a total of four notre dame athletes qualified for the championship meet: freshman ella moynihan, sophomore annie crea, and seniors emma gaboury and lindsey streepey. 
irish head coach mike litzinger said he was ex­cited to see so many notre dame athletes qualify for the meet. 
“our group is thrilled to represent notre dame at the 2016 ncaa swimming and diving championship,” litzinger said. “The se­lection process for swim­mers is exceptionally hard, as it requires you to be in the top 30 of all athletes that compete in that par­ticular event. having ella moynihan qualify in both the 500 [freestyle] and 200 [freestyle] as a freshman bodes very well for our team and its future. on the diving side, coach caiming Xie did a fantastic job hav­ing a record three divers make the meet.” 

litzinger said he hoped having so many divers qualify would have a posi­tive impact on the future of the team. 
“it certainly is a historic moment for our program,” litzinger said. “our se­niors emma [gaboury] and lindsey [streepey] have carried the program all year, and annie [crea] will only gain more experience for the future.” 
The three divers earned their berths last week after competing in the ncaa qualifier meet in west lafayette, indiana. streepey finished in sixth and gaboury finished in seventh in the women’s one-meter dive event, while gaboury and crea finished in fourth and sixth, re­spectively, in the women’s three-meter dive event. 
moynihan did not compete in the ncaa 
qualifier meet, as she had qualified last month 
at  the  acc  swimming  
championship,  but  
litzinger  said  he  is  not  
worried  about  the  long  

period between competi­tions negatively affecting moynihan. 
“not competing for two weeks will not affect ella,” litzinger said. “she has been training at a high lev­el, and will be ready. The divers are coming off their regional qualifying meet and are fresh.” 
litzinger said he knows the competition at the ncaas will be tough, con­sidering the best swimmers and divers will be there. 
“competing at this meet is very different, as it be­comes a meet of individual achievement,” litzinger said. “not very many teams can field a full squad, as the qualifying is so diffi­cult. The reality is, if you have an opportunity, you need to take full advantage of it. if you do, you will be in great shape.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


Baseball 
conTinued From page 16 
cleared the right field wall and then some. it was the freshman’s second colle­giate home run and served as a response to bollinger’s first-inning double. 
“i got jammed a little bit,” stutts said. “i was thinking away and i just reacted to it. i’m just happy to get some­thing started for the team to beat them. … 
“right field was pretty rough. you had the sun and the wind. you just try to get as many reps as you can in batting practice and just hope they stay in the yard when you’re on defense.” 
Junior second baseman cavan biggio and soph­omore left fielder Jake Johnson followed stutts with back-to-back singles, and se­nior designated hitter ricky sanchez brought them both home with a line drive dou­ble to right that got pushed by the wind all the way to the wall. 
by the end of the fourth, the irish led 7-1 and had knocked Toledo’s starting pitcher, senior Kyle slack, out of the game. 
hearne, meanwhile, did not need nearly as much run support as he was provided by his teammates. Following his wild first inning, he went on to retire 12 of the next 13 batters he faced, allowing no hits over that period of time. he was rewarded with his first win of the season and first decision in 11 months after undergoing Tommy John surgery early last year. 
“i noticed the umpire was giving a little bit more on the edge of the plate, and i started hitting that a little bit,” hearne said. “They were taking it, so i was tak­ing what they were giving me and getting a lot more swings and misses on my changeup outside of the zone after that.” 
even hearne benefited from the gusty weather, as he posted a career-high seven strikeouts by utiliz­ing its effect on some of his pitches. 
“my changeup was really moving and the wind was helping it out a lot,” hearne said. “it was going with my tail. i was also locating my fastball really well. They re­ally set each other up.” 
but the irish did not rely solely on wind power to claim the win. notre dame manufactured six of its 10 runs with a combination of singles, wild pitches, stolen bases, sacrifices and errors. 
in the top of the second, freshman center fielder matt vierling started things off by slapping a hard grounder up the middle that Toledo soph­omore second baseman matt hansen bobbled, allowing him to reach first. 
richards followed with a soft line drive to right field, lidge advanced both run­ners on a ground out to third base, and stutts lofted an easy fly ball to center field that scored vierling. 
with two outs, freshman third baseman cole daily drew a walk to put a man on first and second, and biggio took advantage with a single to right, scoring richards and sending daily to third. The next batter, Johnson struck out to end the inning, but not before slack buried a pitch that got past the catch­er for daily to race home for an insurance run. 
in the bottom of the sixth, freshman nick podkul, who came in as a defensive re­placement for daily in the top of the inning, ripped a single up the middle, stole second and then advanced to third on a fly out from biggio. he came around to score on a single by Johnson, who then made it to third on a single to right field by sanchez and crossed the plate after vierling chopped a groundball that hand­cuffed the shortstop for an error. 
“That was a kid, slack, who doesn’t walk a lot of people,” aoki said. “we managed to get two walks and a hit-by­pitch, so we made them earn their outs. our at-bats up and down [the lineup] were really good. our quality at-bats, which is something we track, was probably as high as it’s been since we were at down at incarnate word [on Feb. 27].” 
The irish only have one day off as they travel to raleigh, north carolina, for a three-game series against acc foe north carolina state this weekend. First pitch on Friday is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 



MEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame strives for conference win 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
after suffering its first loss of the season to no. 1 denver on sunday, no. 2 notre dame will look to rebound in its first conference matchup of the season against virginia on saturday. 
The irish (4-1, 0-0) will face a cavaliers (3-4, 0-1) squad that has struggled to get off to a fast start this season. despite wins against drexel, university of pennsylvania and saint Joseph’s, losses to loyola maryland, high point, syracuse and cornell have dropped the once-ranked cavaliers out of both the coaches and media polls. 
even with the cavaliers’ rough start, notre dame’s history with virginia should diminish any thoughts of overlooking the cavaliers. in nine meetings, the irish have gone 4-5 against the cavaliers but have managed to win the last three contests, includ­ing a 12-10 win in the ncaa quarterfinals in 2012. led by its second-ranked scoring defense, notre dame will look to make it four consecu­tive wins against virginia. 
Junior goalie shane doss said the team’s defensive success against virginia will come from scouting the cavaliers’ offensive game plan. 
“virginia has a lot of talent­ed guys who know how to put the ball in the net, and our job is to just get a feel for their tendencies and the looks they try to create for their of­fense,” doss said. “however, in the end, we know that if we play our game to the best of our ability, it doesn’t mat­ter who is on the other side of the field.” 
The cavaliers are led by senior attack James pannell, who has recorded 12 goals and seven assists so far this season. Junior midfielder Zed williams has tallied 12 goals and two assists, and sopho­more attack mike d’amario has scored 10 goals, while tal­lying an assist. These three have produced a significant 
see m laX PAGE 14 
BASEBALL | nd 10, Toledo 3 

irish succeed in home opener 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
wind whipping up to 40 miles per hour and tempera­tures in the mid-50s doesn’t qualify as good baseball weather by most people’s standards. 
but those conditions were just about perfect for notre dame on wednesday, as the irish (7-8, 0-3 acc) kicked off their home schedule at Frank eck stadium with a 10-3 win over Toledo. 
it was a group effort for irish head coach mik aoki’s squad, as nine different bat­ters combined for 12 hits and five pitchers scattered six hits and three runs among them. Those 12 hits marks the second-highest total for notre dame this season. 
“overall, our bats were good, we played it clean de­fensively and we pitched pretty well,” aoki said. “ … our kids were swinging at the right pitches.” 
early on, however, nature was not kind to the irish, as the wind helped the rockets (2-14-1, 0-0 mac) take the first lead of the game. 
in the top of the first, Toledo sophomore first baseman dalton bollinger cracked what would have normally been a lazy fly ball to right-center field. instead, it caught a gust and bounced over the wall for a ground-rule double that scored se­nior shortstop deion Tansel, who had reached on a single. 
From there, Toledo load­ed the bases as irish se­nior right-hander michael hearne hit one batter and walked another to load the bases. however, he rallied with two strikeouts to strand all three runners. 
but the wind returned the favor in the bottom of the fourth, as the irish col­lected four runs on four hits. senior shortstop lane richards began the inning with a line drive that crested into the right-center gap for a triple, then scored on an rbi groundout from junior catcher ryan lidge. 
Freshman right fielder connor stutts followed with a mammoth blast pushed along by a breeze that 
see baseball PAGE 15 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
ND fights for more than a victory in UVA game 
By ALEX CARSON 
assistant manaing editor 
a contrast of styles be­tween no. 5 notre dame’s fast-paced approach and no. 12 virginia’s methodi­cal one will be on display saturday when the two clash in an acc game at arlotta stadium. 
“They present that dis­ciplined and patient game plan, especially against our team that likes to play fast,” irish head coach christine halfpenny said. “but that said, our aggres­sive style and our high-pressure style, we feel matches up really nicely against that patient look.” 
The irish (8-1, 2-1 acc) ride a three-game win­ning streak into the con­test, an answer to a march 5 double-overtime loss at no. 6 louisville which highlights the team’s commitment to constant improvement, halfpenny said. 
“i’m really pleased,” she said of her team’s 
see w laX PAGE 14 






