The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 82 | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
SUB announces concert cancellation 
Contract negotiation issues with DJ duo The Chainsmokers cause campus-wide disappointment 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
after winning a national competition through the on-line crowd-funding platform Tilt, notre dame was set to host The chainsmokers, a ris­ing dJ duo, last saturday night. however, on Friday afternoon, the student union board an­nounced via a Facebook post that the concert was cancelled. 
“This was a Tilt event, orga­nized by a third party appli­cation and not sub or notre dame. … This ultimately made it impossible for us to host the artist on campus,” the post said. 
Tilt created a contest in which universities nationwide were invited to purchase tickets to a chainsmokers concert in advance. The five universities purchasing the most tickets “won” a concert at their school. notre dame joined university of california-davis, university of california-santa barbara, university of connecticut and university of Texas-austin as winners of the concert. 

sub said they were unable to reach an agreement, citing con­tract negotiation issues. 
“while we did everything we could well in advance to part­ner with Tilt and provide The chainsmokers with a venue on campus for the benefit of notre dame students, their agency was unfortunately unable to meet our standard contract ex­pectations,” the post said. 
according to Tilt campus representative, senior vince 

see concerT PAGE 4 ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



Club hosts dinner benefiting refugees 

By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
The notre dame Knights of columbus council hosted a dinner to benefit christian refugees saturday night, highlighted by the key­note address from professor gabriel said reynolds on the role of islam in the perse­cution of christians in the middle east. 
as the west looks at on­going developments in the islamic world, the gravity of christian persecution is not to be underestimated, reynolds said. 
“it seems that genocide is not too strong of a word,” he said. 
it is crucial, reynolds said, to understand why these atrocities against christians 
are  happening  in  areas  
where  muslims  constitute  
the majority.  
“much  of  the  christian  

persecution is taking place 
see reFugees PAGE 3 


saint mary’s group raises money for riley hospital 
By MARTA BROWN 
news writer 
This week, saint mary’s college dance marathon (smcdm) is hosting riley week to promote awareness and raise money for riley hospital for children in indianapolis. 
allison lukomski, co-president of smcdm, said she and the dance marathon executive board hope to in­form saint mary’s students about the riley hospital and the programs it offers for kids requiring medical at­tention and their families. 
“The motives and goals for this week are to bring aware­ness to the community about the miracles that are hap­pening at riley hospital for children in indianapolis,” she said. 
The week kicked off with a yoga event sunday. all proceeds were donated to riley hospital. Free dough­nuts and coffee were avail­able monday in the lobby of spes unica as incentives for students to sign up for the `upcoming marathon. 
“we are also promoting for students to sign up for the day of the marathon, which is on march 19,” lukomski said. “we dance for 12 hours for a cause that is bigger than yourself, we dance for a cure and we dance to put miracles into motion.” 

lukomski said students can register for the mara­thon throughout the week, 
see riley PAGE 4 


news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 women’s basKeTball PAGE 12 TracK PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

ndsmcobserver.com What is your favorite pick-up line? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Thomas Steve 
greg hadley 
sophomore 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
stanford hall

                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
“hey.” 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 
Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens 
Ben Dalgarn 
Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao 
sophomore 
Online Editor: michael yu 
stanford hall 

Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“so i was backpacking across 
western europe ... ” 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
David Shank 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
sophomore 
Managing Editor 

(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
stanford hall 
Assistant Managing Editors 
“my doctor says i’m lacking 

(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu vitamin u.” 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Jess Hardey 
freshman 
pasquerilla east hall 
“are you a parking ticket? because you have fine written all over you.” 
Marisa Ulrich 
sophomore 
pasquerilla west hall 
“you must be a keyboard because you’re just my type.” 
Dan Loesing 
sophomore 
stanford hall 
“did it hurt when the polar bear broke the ice? because you’re the only 10 i see ... uh ... ” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
hehmes01@saintmarys.ed 
Photo Desk 

(574)631-8767 photo@smcndobserver.com “Pizza, Pop and Pannel Discussion Audtions: “Loyal Welsh Fam Dance Men’s Basketball vs. Systems & Web Administrators Politics” Geddes Hall Daughters and Sons” Fest North Carolina 
(574) 631-8839 
Geddes Hall 4:30 p.m.-6 p.m. O’Shaughnessey Hall Washington Hall Joyce Center 4 p.m. -6 p.m. Q&A session for 6 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published Father Jenkins students considering No preparation Performances from all The Irish take on the in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
discusses the election. graduate school. necessary. ND dance clubs. Tar Heels. 

dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves “Getting Started in Music in Rohr’s SUB Movie Labor Cafe Edith Stein Project the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Research” Morris Inn DeBartolo Hall Geddes Hall McKenna Hall 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Brownson Hall 7 p.m.-10 p.m. 8 p.m.-10:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-6 p.m. all day 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Live music every This week’s movie is Join the Higgins Labor Conference on faith, managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
Undergrad workshop. Tuesday Night. “Bridge of Spies.” Program for Coffee. dignity and identity. 

letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Saint Mary’s implements new 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 

post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. 
study abroad program in Jamaica 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 a traveler,” bremyer said. “we’re going gain a sense of how the cultures of the 
By MEGAN VALLEY 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer news writer to talk about what it means to travel as united states and Jamaica interact. 
send address corrections to: 

The observer opposed to what it means to engage in “[it is] a chance to think critically 
p.o. box 779 

024 south dining hall The saint mary’s center for women’s tourism. Jamaica is the perfect place about what it means when we spend our 
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. intercultural leadership (cwil) will to do that because its economy is so dollars traveling somewhere — what it 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 
sponsor a new summer study abroad driven by tourism. some of those ques-means to make choices about the envi­program in Jamaica, starting in may tions about the ecological, the cultural, ronment, about the world that we live 2016. the financial impact of what tourism in, about how we value other countries 


dionne bremyer, assistant professor does to a country are really at large in in relation to our own,” bremyer said. “ of english, said she started the program Jamaica.” … To experience the world and to think because her family heritage is Jamaican, bremyer said she wants students about the ways in which we can under-
News Sports 

Katie galioto alex carson and she believes the island is full of cul-to have a better understanding of the stand ourselves and the world and each selena ponio rachel o’grady 
ture most saint mary’s students can ap-world through their experiences in other better by having an understand-

Jenna wilson maureen schweninger 
preciate but do not know as well. Jamaica. ing of all the people who live on our 
Graphics Scene 
“it’s a good place to go in terms of get-“it’s an amazing opportunity to expe-planet.” 
eric richelsen adam ramos 
ting a different cultural experience and rience a country that is so close to the The program will teach the history 
Photo Scene 
still being english-speaking,” bremyer united states and one that is so influ-of the island to students through trips 

caitlyn Jordan austin Taliaferro 
said. “i think some students might be enced by the united states, but one that to a marine village and port royal, a intimidated by going places where people don’t really know a lot about,” hike in the blue mountains and visits to there’s a language barrier, but they she said. “[people] haven’t thought Jamaica’s great houses — plantation-
Corrections 
still want to have a cultural experience much about what this country is, who style homes that used to be cotton and 

The observer regards itself as that’s different. ... you can get a really the people of this country are, and so sugar farms. students will also attend a professional publication and 
different experience in Jamaica, but it’s much of that is defined by this tourist the calabash literary Festival, a three-strives for the highest standards 
still an english-speaking country.” perception. day long festival with readings by pub-

of journalism at all times. we do, 
bremyer said she will be teach-“i think it will be a really unique op-lished authors that celebrates the long 

however, recognize that we will make 
ing a course on travel writing while in portunity to experience a place that is literary tradition of Jamaica. 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Jamaica. so close in terms of geography but so 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so “we’re going to look at the dichoto-very different in terms of culture.” Contact Megan Valley at 
we can correct our error. my between being a tourist and being she said students in the program will mvalley@nd.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | The observer 


Refugees 
conTinued From page 1 
in the islamic world, and it’s not taking place in just one area of the islamic world,” reynolds said. 
reynolds said it is impor­tant to recognize the threat of islamophobia while also acknowledging the wide­spread persecution of christians — not just in one specific place in the islamic world, but across the world from the middle east to sub­saharan africa to southeast asia. 
“we have an issue that we need to address very clearly and soberly, not in way that invites islamophobia or islam­bashing,” he said. 
in order to explain the cur­rent situation, reynolds dis­cussed important theological concepts involved, saying the complex web of political, economic and other causes that contribute to christian persecution went beyond the scope of the talk. Therefore, reynolds said it is vital to un­derstand what islam says in theory and then address the practical reality. 
reynolds said americans often have a faulty under­standing of the islamic word “sharia,” because it is typically used as if it were a concrete set of laws or specific system. rather, reynolds said sharia is a fundamental principle behind the islamic faith that god has a plan for everything. 
“sharia is the divine will for individual humans and for human societies,” reynolds said. 
underneath the concept of sharia, reynolds said islam holds three basic tenets: that islam is a natural religion, that it has comprehensive scope and that is the only true religion. 
by natural religion, reynolds said he means muslims be­lieve islam is in harmony with human nature and that all hu­mans are born muslim. 
“many converts will say ‘i never converted to islam, i re­verted to islam,’” he said. 
reynolds said the nature of islam and its many teachings is surprisingly vast for many christians because it covers nearly every facet of human endeavors, from daily life to broader topics such as politics and science. 
“islam will not only teach you how to pray, it will teach you how to dress, how to eat, how to run an economy, how to run affairs of state,” he said. 
reynolds said he risks stat­ing the obvious when he claims muslims believe islam is the true religion, but it is important to understand how strong and absolute their faith is. in contrast, reynolds said when he asks his under­graduate theology classes whether or not they believe in catholicism, many say yes, but add self-conscious expla­
“We have an issue that we need to address very clearly and soberly, not in a way that invites Islamophobia or Islam-bashing.” 
Gabriel Said Reynolds 
professor 
Islamic Studies and Theology 
nations that there is truth and good in other religions. 
“muslims don’t have this sort of uncomfortable attitude as regards to the truth of their religion,” he said. 
under sharia, reynolds said Jews and christian are sup­posed to be offered certain protections and granted a spe­cial status as “people of the book,” in contrast to polythe­ists and atheists. 
“because they have been included in the divine book or scripture of revelation 
paid adverTisemenT 
that god has spoken to their prophets, they’re close enough to islam that they can be tol­erated in an islamic state,” reynolds said. 
however, reynolds said this religious tolerance is quite limited, especially in regards to public expressions of faith that are not in accordance with islam. 
“Jews and christians can be tolerated. They have free­dom to worship, they can go their churches and their syna­gogues, they can do their own marriages, they can do their own divorces all of that — but they can’t sow the seeds of discord,” he said. 
in reality, reynolds said the implications and conse­quences of sharia can lead to fundamentalism and ulti­mately persecution, referenc­ing groups like boko haram and isis that derive their ide­ologies from a specific reading of islam. 
“The phenomenon that we’re dealing with, with glob­al jihad or islamism, is exclu­sively sunni and never shi’ite,” reynolds said. 
reynolds said sunni islam places a strong emphasis on defending the faith, which is often used as justification to ban public statements or any­thing considered offensive to islam. For example, he said it is a capital offense to insult islam in pakistan. however, reynolds said the religious devotion in islam has positive aspects that christians should embrace. 
“This piety often is sort of beautiful. it’s people who love god and find meaning in their religious life,” he said. “They’re obedient to god, maybe in different ways than catholics. They’re deeply de­voted to prayer. Their example of prayer and fasting can be inspiring.” 
reynolds concluded his talk by suggesting ways in which christians in the west can help the persecuted. he en­couraged people to donate to organizations, such as the Knights of columbus, that support refugees. however, reynolds said it is important that organizations helping the persecuted in the middle east do not exclusively help christians. 
on a personal level, reynolds said christians should to get know muslims, pray for them and love them, in addition to contributing to the new evangelization and focusing on getting young adults more involved in the life of the church. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Concert 
conTinued From page 1 
saladino, a number of con­tracts were discussed, but the parties were unable to reach an agreement. 
“There were three sets of law­yers dealing with the contracts 
— Tilt, notre dame and the chainsmokers. There wasn’t a version of the contract that all three wanted to sign,” saladino said. “we weren’t told the spe­cifics of what was the issue, and i’ve heard the million and a half rumors going around as to what it was, but i don’t know for sure.” 
upon hearing news of the cancellation, students ex­pressed discontent with the way the event was coordinated. 
“The disorganization of Tilt has been extremely disap­pointing,” sophomore colleen o’neill said. “although it was confirmed to us that we won 
Riley 
conTinued From page 1 
free of charge. 
“we want other students to feel the same passion and en­ergy that the dance marathon members feel the day of the marathon and invite people to join us,” she said. 
smcdm will host a dinner in conference rooms a and b on wednesday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Tickets will be sold for $5 per person, and students who register for the mara­thon can attend the dinner for free. students will help create a video for patients in the hospital at the dinner. 
on Thursday, notre dame alumnus pat mcKillen will sing in dalloway’s clubhouse from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. admission will be $5 per person. 
“all of the $5 entrance fees go directly to riley hospital for children,” maranda pennington, co-president of smcdm, said. “pat mcKillen has been a strong supporter of smcdm while he was at notre dame and even after his graduation. we are ec­
static  to  have  him  back  on  
campus this week.”  
pennington said  smcdm  

will host local riley fami­lies for a dinner in the noble Family dining hall on Friday. 
“This is an event where we invite our riley kids and their families to campus to share a meal with committee girls and executives,” she said. “it’s a special night that re­minds us that everything we do is truly for the kids. 
“our hope in raising aware­ness during this week is that more people will decide to attend the marathon this year or become a member of dance marathon in years to come.” 
Contact Marta Brown at mbrown04@saintmarys.edu 
this chainsmokers concert, lit­tle to no information has been provided otherwise.” 
o’neill said she did not know what contract issues halted the contract negotiations, but said she thought there would have been more advanced planning. 
“in my opinion, Tilt should have contacted the university prior to holding the contest to ensure that everything was checked out before charging students for the tickets of a con­cert that had many things hang­ing in the balance,” o’neill said. 
Freshman natalie Treadwell ran a music blog in high school, which led to a friendship with andrew Taggart and alex pall, two musicians who eventu­ally collaborated to form the chainsmokers. 
“we worked a lot with alex and drew before they really became the chainsmokers,” Treadwell said. “… i’m actually in the #selfie music video … so i was pretty excited when i found out we won the Tilt concert,” Treadwell said. 
Treadwell then reached out to Taggart and pall, asking them if she could help in any way with the event. 
“drew responded by say­ing they knew nothing about the concert and that planning would be up to Tilt. ... This was my first red flag,” Treadwell said. “Tilt is a great platform to get funding for something like a concert or a dorm event, but they are not coordinated enough to actually put one on themselves. This was their first time trying to put on an event like this. when they started it, they didn’t know which cam­puses it would be on, how or where the concert was going to be, or who to help coordinate the event.” 
a few days after notre dame won the concert, Treadwell ap­plied to be a campus represen­tative for Tilt. she said she was granted an interview with Tilt coordinators, but ultimately was not offered a position be­cause she was a freshman. 
“This interview gave me a huge insight into what kind of company Tilt is,” Treadwell said. “after my interview, i was pretty convinced that the con­cert wasn’t going to happen be­cause the people left to do the job had no idea what they were doing. 
“notre dame is not a campus where kids rage. a concert like the chainsmokers draws huge concerns for the university, and they were unwilling to reach a contractual agreement. i think the failure is due to a mix of the university’s concern for an out of control rave and Tilt’s in­ability to facilitate such a large event.” 
contract negotiations are ongoing and, according to saladino, they are still trying to set a concert date for mid-april. students who purchased tick­ets on Tilt can use them for the future concert or receive a re­fund on happiness.tilt.com. 
“stepan is still Tilt’s top choice since it is the highest ca­pacity venue and does not have 21+ restrictions. They’re hoping to have the contract down as soon as possible for it,” saladino said. 
Treadwell said she is dis­appointed with Tilt and the university, not with the musi­cians themselves. 
“They are some of the funni­est, honest and normal artists i worked with. They didn’t have a big ego, even though they knew their music was good,” Treadwell said. “From all our interactions, they seemed very upset with how this worked out. all and all, they are great mu­sicians but really they’re just two guys who met at nyu and became wildly successful best friends.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By SAM FENTRESS, NICK LAUREANO and TOMMY ANDERSON 
scene writers 

This past weekend, the debartolo performing arts center hosted the 27th annual notre dame student Film Festival, showcasing the works of some of notre dame’s most promis­ing undergraduate film makers.  scene writers sam Fentress, nick laureano and Tommy anderson attended this year’s festival and had a discussion about the lineup that follows below. 
Sam Fentress: “edison brockwell” featured perhaps the greatest produc­tion value of any of the shorts. a well-lit and well-shot bit, “brockwell” details the exploits of a young serial killer. such a subject is familiar for the short film, but the style of directors Keenan Kelly, Frank lanham and drew ronson 
— along with their thoughtful camera-work and sonic ambience — captivated in fresh ways. if i had to complain, i’d say that visual confidence overshad­owed the storytelling a bit, but clear synergy between the directors, writ­ers and actors made for a thrilling, nu­anced short. 
Nick Laureano: “edison brockwell” was one of my favorite narrative en­tries in the festival. it had a certain confidence, which stemed not just from the directors’ understanding of filmmaking language, but also from their very clear vision of what “edison brockwell” is supposed to be. like sam said, there’s incredible visual style on display: The slightly hazy digital pho­tography evokes david Fincher, the color palette and mise en scene re­minded me of “american psycho,” and the nightmarish sound design recalls david lynch. 
i must agree: The story was convo­luted. i’m a pretty attentive viewer, and i didn’t piece everything together un­til the last shot. many shorts mistake the tension the audience feels when trying to piece together the plot for the suspense that comes with antici­pating what will come next. Keeping hitchcock’s famous maxim in mind, i would like to have seen the clock ticking down throughout “edison brockwell” instead of just the kablooey at the end. having said that, the con­fusion often coalesced nicely with the over-the-top, moody style. and that’s really what “edison brockwell” is: a mood piece. 
Tommy Anderson: “platonica” at­tempts to tackle the trials of being gay in a world and at a school where putting on a different personality is much easier. The filmmakers did this extremely effectively by using a non­linear narrative and settings around campus that uncompromisingly fit the desired mood of each scene. when the two actresses first encounter each other, there is enough acting experi­ence between the two of them to give off that sense of familiarity the scene demands. From there, the viewer is launched into their romantic history, which reveals their true emotions for each other, the tug and pull between them and the conflict of internal gay oppression that the film deals with. without spoiling the ending, it defi­nitely ties a knot on the subject and fosters a sense of realism that seemed unparalleled, perhaps intentionally, by any of the other films. 
The first shot of a film is critical in establishing quality and setting expectations. unfortunately, “no presentation” set the bar low with poorly lit cinematography and jumpy editing. however, the film found its pacing relatively early on and main­tained that pace consistently and cre­atively throughout the rest of the piece. once the viewer has bypassed quality expectations, there are several shots that set up and deliver creative and witty jokes about two deathly hungov­er boys who do not want to go to their presentation and one who is play­ing mom in the scenario and forcing them to change. in particular, there is a tracking shot out of one dorm room into the next that follows the mom character. however, the camera stops outside the door and waits until he comes back out. The comedic rule of threes comes into play, and each time delivers a building audience laugh un­til the payoff had the entire audience laughing. with a witty script, decent acting and marginal editing, the film set itself up as a sleeper but ended up creating a playful piece with moments of absolute hilarity. 
SF: my favorite short came near the end of the evening. a documentary in the best sense of the word, “anthony: portrait of a boxer” takes an intimate look at anthony sims, Jr., a boxer from indiana making a name for himself in the world of professional punching. Filmmakers indi Jackson and austin burgett followed sims Jr. to the gym and the ring, giving the most richly hu­man depiction of the night. They treat sims with respect but never suffocate his clear passion and drive, leaving him space to speak to his family and his passion. The icing on the cake is some of the most tender camerawork of the festival. above all, the film is honest, true to its subject and a real delight for the viewers who partake — if for a mere 10 minutes — in sims’ ap­parent passion for life. 
NL: i was stunned at just how vio­lent the punches thrown in “anthony: portrait of a boxer” were. you could hear the nylon of the glove impact­ing upon flesh, limp bodies of flesh pounding the canvas and, most of all, the gasps of audience members learn­ing just what it means to be a fighter. some of my favorite moments of the recently released “creed” focused on adonis creed’s mother, mary anne, and her struggle with sending her son into the ring. i have to say, seeing the sims family hug and kiss anthony be­fore he stepped into the ring — see­ing the real thing— undermined my appreciation of “creed.” with quick jokes and a whole lot of spit, anthony sims managed to put the heavyweight blockbuster on the ropes. credit Jackson and burgett, who wisely re­frained from attempting to squeeze sims into a clichéd narrative arc, opt­ing instead for a lucid sketch of a man’s life in a brisk 10 minutes. in fact, when Jackson and burgett showed 10-year­old boys training at sims’ gym, you remember the heartache of anthony’s mother when he stepped into the ring, and you realize this wonderful short is about a lifestyle as much as it is about a single life. 
SF: The filmmakers behind “pa­trolling sandy hook” — seniors Kelly Quinn and caroline clark — took home this year’s audience choice award, and though i concur with both of you about the quality of the craft, i think there are difficult questions about the value of this film in practice. For instance, if the purpose of the film is to contain the spread of lies per­petrated by “hoaxers” who claim the massacre at sandy hook elementary didn’t happen, then why make a film interviewing the perpetrators them­selves? Quinn and clark took a seri­ous risk here by giving a platform to the people whose goal is to spread ill-formed lies, even if it becomes clear to us (as it does in the course of “patrol­ling”) that these people are maniacs. 
i’d bet few members of the audi­ence embraced these hoax claims or knew about them in them in the first place before the film festival. even if they had stumbled upon them on-line without the guidance of strong argumentative filmmaking, i’d like to believe most humans with a con­science would be able to discern the difference between a real possibility of hoax and the bizarre assertions of the man in “patrolling sandy hook.” i have difficulty seeing the value, then, in spending time with a perpetrator to get “perspective” on what happened. even if it puts the nail in the coffin (i think the nail was hit well long ago), it has still overrun its own purpose in voicing ideas that have no need of a megaphone. 
The far more interesting exercise, i think, is to ask how people like the man in “patrolling” — people who dedicate their time and money to perpetrating hoax claims — come to these conclusions. is it pre-existing prejudice? a political agenda? Fame-seeking delusion? or, as the man him­self suggested, some form of mental illness? i appreciate Quinn and clark’s tenacious filmmaking, and i admire the question they dared to ask. i’m just not sure it was the right one. 
NL: yes and no. you bring up a valid point, but my question is this: For ev­ery would-be “hoaxer” proselytized by “patrolling sandy hook,” how many anti-“hoaxers” walk away from the same movie? i was always aware in the back of my mind that deranged peo­ple congregated into groups of 9/11 truthers and sandy hoaxers, but to be honest, i had never truly considered the phenomenon until seeing “patrol­ling sandy hook.” 
and in addressing your concerns over the film’s role in providing a plat­form for maniacs, i hope i’ve also con­vinced you of the film’s relevance. yes, clark and Quinn provide necessary commentary on our messed-up inter-net age, where those cloaked in ano­nymity feel free to wreak havoc on the lives of others. but, more importantly, they come to the proverbial rescue of victims like lenny posner and the newtown, connecticut, community. “patrolling sandy hook” isn’t about il­lustrating how crazy the hoaxers are 
— like you said, anyone with half a brain can see that — it’s about shed­ding light on a true injustice and the deeply felt pain that comes with that injustice. whether viewers like myself are compelled to act against internet­terrorists like wolfgang halbig or sim­ply send their thoughts and prayers toward the victims, i think “patrolling sandy hook” is a noble and necessary success. 
Contact Sam Fentress at                        sfentres@nd.edu, Nick Laureano at nlaurean@nd.edu and Tommy Anderson at tander18@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 
The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


INSIDE COLUMN 

A film festival thank you 
Rosie Biehl 
photographer 

This past weekend, i was very fortu­nate to have one of my films featured in the notre dame student Film Festival. i have been attending the Festival since i was a freshman in high school and was more than thrilled to be participating in one for the first time. For those who do not know, the notre dame student Film Festival screens films made by under­graduates during the past year as class projects. These students study the art of filmmaking in advanced, intermediate and introductory film production cours­es taught in the department of film, tele­vision and theatre (FTT). all films are shot on location and often feature the acting talents of notre dame students and faculty. 
after all the script revisions, cast audi­tions, long days on set and hours spent in the editing rooms, the Festival was the best reward i could have imagined. it is an incredible feeling to be able to sit back and recognize you and your class­mates’ work as art, not just a completed assignment. The documentaries featured in the festival were excellent. not only were they beautifully crafted, but they allowed me to see sides of this campus that i would otherwise may not have known. “spark of madness,” by anna gonzalez, finds the method behind the humor of notre dame student standups. This documentary featured liz hynes, a classmate i transferred into notre dame with and had class with last semester almost every day. i already knew she was a hilarious genius, but the documentary gave me insight into all the hard work that goes into the shows she puts on. in this same way, each film gave me some new insight into notre dame and who my classmates really are. 
sitting next to my family and best friends while watching these films was an experience i will never forget. To my classmates, moira hamilton, Tanner cipriano, John salazar, liza connor and everyone else that i have worked with in class: you are inspiring, creative in­dividuals and an honor to work with. in the FTT department, i feel truly honored to be surrounded by so many people that i know will continue to be successful filmmakers in the future. This semester, i am lucky enough to be working with two very talented girls in my advanced digital cinema production class, Jill chipley and liz Konicek. in just the first two meetings i have had with them, i can already tell we have a great proj­ect in the works. congratulations to all the Festival participants, and thank you so much to all those who came out to support your favorite notre dame filmmakers. 
Contact Rosie Biehl at rbiehl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 
so that was the iowa caucuses. i don’t actually know what happened, because i’m writing this in advance. however, it likely wasn’t boring. all eyes have been on two contests on either side of the aisle — hillary clinton versus bernie sanders on the democratic side, and everyone else versus donald Trump for the republicans. in both cases, the challengers have framed themselves as trans-formative outsiders who refuse to play ball with the party establishment. 
if there’s one word that describes both the Trump and sanders campaigns, it’s “demagoguery.” both candidates have risen to prominence based on applause-line promises founded almost exclusively in emotion, whether it’s Trump’s race-baiting or sanders’s soak-the-rich moralizing. Trump has promised to expel undocumented migrants and de­feat isis without any plan more sophisticated than “by being great,” yet this does not faze the cheering crowds. meanwhile, sanders’s healthcare plan has been roundly criticized for being hundreds of bil­lions of dollars in the red, but his throng is no less dedicated than Trump’s. The thought of either of these fist-shakers achieving election, or even nomi­nation, scares me profoundly, though it does not surprise me. as h. l. mencken once said, “no one in this world … has ever lost money by underesti­mating the intelligence of the great masses of the plain people. nor has anyone ever lost public office thereby.” 
Fortunately for america, for the world and for me, a Trump or sanders presidency is so extreme the establishments of both parties are certain to agitate against it. The republican base has been running away from Trump from the instant he an­nounced his run. The campaign against sanders has been muted because he’s never been the front-runner. yet the first blows are landing; house minority leader nancy pelosi recently took a big step back from sanders’s tax hikes. more will surely follow. 
if these campaigns don’t crash and burn imme­diately following iowa, at some point a concerted campaign of endorsements, ad money and sunday morning talk show time will pound the upstarts into oblivion. The clinton campaign hasn’t even started picking through sanders’s dirty laundry, and Trump seems quite content to keep smithing the nails for his own coffin. behind closed doors, both candidates will be sat down by the party lead­ers and explicitly notified that their candidacy is a threat to the future of the party and the nation. They might still be in double digits in the polls af­ter super Tuesday, but their long-haul potential will be shattered. 
history is a useful guide here. in mid-February of 2012, herman cain, rick santorum and even rick perry had jumped to the front of the republican pack as more exciting alternatives to newt gingrich and mitt romney’s establishment, run-of-the-mill conservatism. yet it was romney who secured the nomination. 
now of course, that’s no fun. There’s no sex ap­peal in a system where the flamboyant outsider loses, and the compromiser — the one who actu­ally does the messy, unpleasant, unglamorous work of running a city, state or country — receives the party’s support. and yes, this election cycle has had more than its fair share of lifeless, extruded-political-product campaigns. hillary clinton’s run in particular appears to have been assembled from a build-a-candidacy kit (batteries not included). but the constant vetting by the party apparatus is invaluable in preventing a fundamentally unquali­fied candidate from ascending to the presidency. 
of course, the installation of safeguards against radical change is not new or even restricted to the party apparatus. many aspects of our politi­cal system brace the country against the will of the small-d democratic mob. The whole reason we have separation of powers in the first place is to prevent our leaders from forcing their agendas on the nation. similarly, the much-maligned electoral college is invaluable as a final line of defense against the election of a malevolent candidate. am i bothered by the fact that minnesota (where i vote absentee) will go for the democratic candidate no matter whom i vote for? yes. am i willing to ac­cept that to keep the next caligula out of the white house? you betcha! 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Ignoring the root of the problem 
Eric Liang 
guest column 

after reading mimi Teixeira’s viewpoint article “is income inequality that bad?”, i was initially pretty shocked — did the author really suggest this issue, despite decades of literature on its ef­fects in the united states, is insignificant? 
after all, ms. Teixeira wrote, “why does it mat­ter how much the richest person in the country has, so long as the rest of the country lives com­fortably?” and “There was a time when only the rich could afford refrigerators, phones and com­puters. … Today, most working americans have the same basic appliances and necessities as the rich.” she’s on the right track — our current in­come inequality would matter less if everybody really could live comfortably and have our basic appliances and necessities, but unfortunately, that’s far from reality. 
The problem is, just by looking at the people around you and claiming we’ve all got it pretty good is marginalizing the 14.8 percent (46.7 mil­lion) of people in poverty and especially the 21.1 percent of children in poverty. and while the majority of americans might have refrigerators in their homes, the usda classifies 14 percent of american households as food insecure — not having enough money to put food in those cheaper and cheaper refrigerators every week. everybody isn’t living comfortably in the status quo. 
mentioning tech entrepreneurs and how their inventions have made our lives easier or naming more “equal” countries and saying you’d prefer the united states does not address the issue. There’s nothing wrong with the mega-rich, and some inequality will exist in any capitalistic sys­tem. but bill gates would be one of the first to agree there needs to be change in the status quo, and there are various countries in the study cit­ed with a lower inequality ranking and a higher human development index ranking and that doesn’t even address the fact that we shouldn’t look at significantly smaller countries in com­parison. For true progress, we need to compare ourselves to what we could be, not what we were or what others are. all other comparisons are just red herrings. 
despite this, ms. Teixeira does bring up one good point — we need to look at opportunity inequality and social mobility. The problem is that we cannot separate the issues. increasing income inequality is what is currently contrib­uting to growing immobility. 
The difficulty of our current income inequal­ity comes in the relative change between the two ends of the spectrum. while ms. Teixeira tries to paint a picture where the upper, middle and lower classes are all prospering, there’s a dif­ferent effect in the real world. according to the pew research center, the middle class has been shrinking for decades, and the gap between the top and bottom is the biggest it has been in 45 years. and when it starts affecting opportunity inequality and social mobility, then it’s definite­ly a problem that needs to be addressed. 
one of the core ideals of our government is that citizens should have the ability to influ­ence public policy. in a study by martin gilens in public opinion Quarterly that aggregates voting data from 1981-2002, on issues where the preferences of the middle/lower classes con­flict with the upper class, such as “raising the minimum wage” or “extending unemployment benefits during periods of high unemployment,” it’s the upper class that will get their prefer­ences heard when policy decisions are made, not the rest of america. after all, one of the biggest contributors to opportunity inequality and so­cial immobility is the fact that wages have not kept up with the growing cost of living. despite ms. Teixeira claim that the “standard of living inequality has shrunk,” there’s nothing further from the truth. 
when it comes to backing a policy, gilens found there was a 30 percent greater chance of change when the rich (which he defined as the top 10 percent) supported a policy and only a six percent greater chance when the middle class did the same. The fact that the top 10 per­cent of americans have five times more influ­ence than the majority middle class should be alarming, especially on issues that affect the rest of america the most. with growing income inequality, this trend will continue to rise. and this is all while ignoring the millions of americans in the lower class — the study con­cludes that there is a “complete lack of govern­ment responsiveness to the preferences of the poor.” but hey, at least they can afford “refrig­erators, phones and computers,” right? 
The idea that our current level of income in­equality is a non-issue because conditions today are better than they were in “1920 or even 1980,” or that america has it better off compared to other countries is disturbing. ms. Teixeira ig­nores the problems of the system itself — it is also politically marginalizing a large proportion of our population, creating social immobility and increasing opportunity inequality. 
don’t get me wrong; inequality isn’t inher­ently bad. There will always be inequality in any capitalistic system, but the problem is when inequality rises to a level where it starts doing more harm than good. Trying to paint a world where “basic appliances and necessities” and economic growth are mutually exclusive only reinforces the “i got mine” attitude and ignores millions of struggling americans. 
while there is legitimate criticism of the sanders or obama stances on dealing with the current inequality, we cannot claim it is a non-issue. There absolutely needs to be a discussion on the effects of current income polarization in the u.s. Trying to shift the issue to opportunity inequality and social mobility without look­ing at income inequality ignores the root of the problem and takes away a voice for the rest of us. 
Eric Liang is a junior and can be reached at  eliang@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

income inequality is undeniably an issue 
Eduardo Mancilla 
guest column 

whether income inequality is the biggest issue of our time or not is dependent on one’s personal opinion. reasonably, there are many other issues affecting our generation such as racial polariza­tion, immigration and terrorism that could be considered bigger issues of our time. however, to go as far as to say it is not a problem, as mimi Teixeira said in her column Jan. 27, is ignorant. 
Teixeira’s piece, “is income inequality That bad?”, brings up the challenging question of what level of income inequality is acceptable. i agree with Teixeira that alarmists fail to de­termine what exactly is an acceptable level. however, that question is difficult because in­come inequality can be viewed from a norma­tive or positive perspective. in economics, a normative statement is one that is subjective and value-based, while a positive statement is one that is objective and based on facts. From a nor­mative perspective, the numbers are arbitrary. looking at the economic data from a positive perspective, the conclusions are clearer. 
From a positive perspective, there are some answers as to what is not an acceptable level of inequality, and there are nonpartisan, economic implications of today’s level of income inequal­ity. income equality hampers economic growth as described by recent international monetary Fund (imF) studies. a paper published June 2015 from staff writers of the imF has analysis that suggests income inequality can impact growth. gdp growth actually declines when there is an increase in the share of the top 20 percent. on the other hand, when the income share of the bottom 20 percent increases, there is higher gdp growth. The authors of the paper use the gini coefficient, which is measured from 0 (full equality) to 1 (full inequality). For the united states, the gini coefficient is 0.401 after taxes and transfers and is the highest u.s. gini coeffi­cient since the 1980s. 
The cato institute claims the real value of low and middle-income workers’ compensation is increasing, but the national academy of social sciences has determined that “employer costs have been steadily increasing with the eco­nomic recovery, although are still near historic lows. benefits per $100 of covered wages have been fairly constant since 2006 and at lower levels than at any time since 1980-81.” Those fairly constant benefits in workers’ compensa­tion pair nicely with mediocre gains in wage growth. in contrast, the compensation of ceos and high-level executives has skyrocketed. The growth in ceo compensation has to come from somewhere. if wage growth is mediocre and benefits in workers’ compensation have stayed fairly constant, then those high-level executive salaries are coming from what would have been the increased wages of the laborers. 
The belief that rising income inequality is bad for the economy is not some liberal-spun fai­rytale. The lower and middle class are not rid­ing on the coattails of successful entrepreneurs such as bill gates and Jeff bezos. do innovators and successful businessmen in america deserve to earn more than average workers? absolutely. do they deserve to earn as much as they have been recently earning? absolutely not. 
republicans encourage growth, and they believe in cutting both income and corporate taxes regardless of whether it increases income inequality. The analysis from the imF reveals that significant income inequality causes gdp growth to decline, thus cutting taxes would be counterintuitive to economic growth if it does nothing to address income inequality. To say you do not care about income inequality but that opportunity inequality and a lack of social mobility are significant is contradictory. income inequality is bad, and it is appropriate for ev­eryone, regardless of political affiliation, to be shocked. 
Eduardo Mancilla is a sophomore in Keenan Hall and is majoring in economics. He can be reached at emancill@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


PERSONAL 
Want a pro to help edit/pol­ish your dissertation or other research paper? Utilize an ex­perienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Keep an open mind, share your thoughts and give everyone the same freedom you expect in return. you can coast along and reach your goals if you avoid making unrealistic promises. do things for yourself and make each move count. The less you expect from others, the better. an independent attitude will bring the highest returns. your numbers are 8, 12, 23, 29, 35, 38, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): re-evaluate your current position. if you don’t feel satisfied with your accomplishments, consider picking up more qualifications to help you follow a path suitable to your personality. adapt your resume to fit the direction you want to pursue. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): an unexpected opportunity will take you on an exciting new journey. let your mind mull over the possibilities. a meeting will be informative. romance is on the rise, and sharing your adventure with someone special will improve your relationship. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t slow down or give anyone the chance to cause concern, uncertainty or confusion in your life. stay on track and bring about the necessary changes in a disciplined manner. you can make a difference if you try. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): venture down different cultural or philosophic paths and see what life has to offer. your interest will bring you close to someone who will motivate you to get back to the people and things you enjoy most in life. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): problems at home will escalate if you don’t find a workable solution quickly. do whatever it takes to appease someone who has the potential to make your life miserable. an unexpected professional change will help stabilize your future. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): participate in events that will help you show off your skills, or offer a service that can bring in extra cash. a partnership will take an interesting turn due to a conversation with someone you want to share your ideas with. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): accept the inevitable and keep moving forward. don’t let anyone stand in the way of your professional progress. deal with issues involving home, insurance or medical matters. offer affection, not complaints when dealing with friends and family. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel or getting together with someone you can learn from will help you get ahead. express your thoughts and make unusual changes at home that will enable you to pursue a creative idea. romance is highlighted. discuss personal plans. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep to yourself and refrain from sharing your plans. base your decisions on what you know, not what someone tells you. False information and taking things for granted can be expected if you are too friendly. stay calm and watchful. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put your plans into motion. you stand to gain personally and professionally if you are proactive. a relationship with someone you love will encourage you to invest in a brighter future. home improvements can be made. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t let emotions or anger take over. make every comment count. be diligent about the information you gather. make personal changes that will encourage others to look up to you. discipline will bring about positive self-improvements. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): your generosity will help to raise your profile among your colleagues. what you offer will bring financial benefits and emotional satisfaction for your time and efforts. a partnership looks promising, and a romantic plan will enhance your personal life. 

Birthday Baby: you are powerful, relentless, determined and complex. you are dedicated and loyal. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312­3078 or email ajhughes71@ gmail.com 
I stopped an old man along the way / Hoping to find some old forgotten words or an­cient melodies / He turned to 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 
me as if to say, “Hurry boy, it’s waiting there for you” / I hear the drums echoing tonight / There’s nothing that a hun­dred men or more could ever do / I bless the rains down in Africa / Gonna take some time to do the things we never had. 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | The observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

manning’s legacy on the line sunday 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
This sunday, peyton manning will play the 293rd 
— and likely last — game of his career. in the 292 previ­ous, including postseason games, he’s passed for more than 80,000 yards and nearly 600 touchdowns. he’s won five nFl mvp awards, seven first-team all-pro selections and 14 pro bowl nominations. he holds the records for passing yards and passing touchdowns in a single season. he sang to his chicken parm. 
now, his entire legacy comes down to one game. one game he’s only playing because the denver broncos have the top-ranked defense in the nFl. one game to finish a season where brock osweiler played eight games as the broncos’ quarterback, and manning might not be there without him. 
when the clock hits zeroes sunday, we can all look back upon manning’s career and declare him either the great­est of all time who won super bowls for two different teams or a choker who could perform in the regular season but only grabbed one ring. it all comes down to manning’s perfor­mance on the day. actually, that’s not strictly true. it all comes down to whether the team manning is on wins or loses. 
That doesn’t seem fair, does it? 
no player’s legacy should hang on one single game, especially not against one of the greatest teams ever assembled. 
if manning wins, does that change the fact that he just plain stunk for a large por­tion of this year? That he might have had the worst game of any quarterback ever when he met the chiefs in what now looks to be his last-ever regular season start? manning wasn’t the one hit­ting Tom brady 20 times in the aFc championship game: it was the fearsome broncos pass rush that ensured he’ll be playing for a second ring. his other title, in super bowl Xli, was also won by a great defense, not by an elite per­formance from manning. his rings won’t be proof of his own greatness but of his team’s. 
and if manning loses, does only having one ring dimin­ish his accomplishments all that much? For most of his career, he didn’t have a strong defense behind him. he did in 2006, and he won the super bowl, and now he has one again. if his teams were bet­ter on the other side of the ball, manning’s postseason pedigree would have been proven long ago. only one team can win the super bowl every year, and manning has come up against some great teams. he’s had the occasional subpar performance, but that can happen to any player, es­pecially a passer of manning’s style forced to play road games in January. it doesn’t mean he’s a “choker.” 
one player does not win a championship. Football is a team sport. Judging peyton manning by his team’s ac­complishments is unfair, win or lose. it may be the most important position in the sport, but no quarterback can singlehandedly determine how many rings they win. Trent dilfer won a super bowl. dan marino did not. as much as a legendary quarterback increases your chances of winning, they can only do so much. 
The belief that one player can singlehandedly win it all for their team is hardly unique to football. when lebron James takes the cavaliers to another nba Finals defeat this year (because it’s hard to see anything but second place for cleveland), irrespective of his performance, he’ll be accused of an inability — or worse, a lack of motivation — to win it all. but like manning in foot­ball, there’s only so much you can expect from an all-time great. 
i’m not sure exactly where peyton manning ranks among the all-time greats at the quar­terback position. ultimately, it’s almost completely useless to compare players with dif­ferent systems, coaches, team­mates, passing rules and eras. but i know this: There are 292 games that aren’t super bowl 50 that play into his legacy too. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


FENCING | norThwesTern duals 
Notre Dame dominates against top competition 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame had a suc­cessful weekend at the northwestern duals, a two-day event that took place on notre dame’s campus this past weekend, with the women’s team notching an undefeated weekend and the men’s team only dropping one match. The wildcats hosted the event, but it took place at notre dame’s castellan Family Fencing center due to ongoing reno­vations that are taking place at northwestern’s henry crown sports pavilion. 
The no. 1 irish women finished both weekend days with spotless 6-0 records. on the first day of the du­als, the notre dame women beat no. 8 penn 24-3 to open the day before downing no. 3 princeton 14-13 and no. 6 ohio state 15-12 in early rounds before winning their last 3 rounds against Farleigh 
dickenson,  stanford  and  
cal  Tech,  all  double-digit  
victories.  

on day two of the duals, the irish women picked up exact­ly where they left off by beat­ing Temple, air Force, uc san diego and northwestern in their first four rounds. notre dame then secured a perfect 12-0 record for the weekend by beating penn state and lawrence sunday afternoon. 
on the men’s side, no. 2 notre dame also shined throughout the weekend. on saturday, the irish went 5-1 with victories against stanford, uc san diego, air Force, ohio state and no. 8 princeton. The sole blem­ish for the irish was a match against no. 3 penn, which notre dame dropped 14-13. 
Just like the notre dame women, the irish men fin­ished the northwestern duals with an undefeated performance sunday. The irish went 6-0 against a schedule that included cal Tech, lawrence and detroit. The irish finished their day and the weekend over­all with victories over penn state, cleveland state and northwestern. 

notre dame will look to build on this momentum next weekend when it returns to action at the duke duals next saturday in durham, north carolina. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 5, illinois 2; nd 7, bowling green 0 
irish return to form, take two wins at home 
Observer Staff Report 
after being swept the pre­vious weekend at the iTa Kickoff weekend in stillwater, oklahoma, notre dame bounced back with a near-perfect sunday at eck Tennis pavilion, defeating illinois, 5-2, and bowling green, 7-0. 
however, the irish (3-2) started sunday on the wrong side of the scoresheet against the Fighting illini (3-2), drop­ping the doubles point, 2-1. The two teams split the no. 1 and no. 2 flights, but illini ju­nior alexis casati and fresh­man daniela pedraza novak took the no. 3 match in a tie­breaker, securing the point for the visitors. 
That advantage was short-lived for illinois, however, as the irish took five of six singles matches, headlined by senior Quinn gleason, 6-3, 6-0 win over casati at no. 1 singles. 
irish junior monica robinson, sophomore allison miller and junior mary closs each grabbed straight-set wins at nos. 2, 3 and 4 singles, respectively, while sopho­more brooke broda took her match at no. 5 singles, win­ning the tiebreak against pedraza novak 11-9 to take the flight. 
later in the day, notre dame had little trouble dis­patching bowling green (1­
4) without dropping a set. gleason and robinson, the 32nd-ranked doubles tandem in the country, set the tone with a 6-2 win at no. 1 dou­bles, while closs and senior Julie vrabel took a 6-1 victory at no. 3 doubles. 
singles play was just as straightforward for notre dame against the Falcons; junior Jane Fennelly, who was the only irish player not to win her singles match against illinois, gave the irish a 2-0 advantage with a 6-1, 6-0 win at no. 6 singles, while broda won her match at no. 5 without dropping a game, 6-0, 6-0. 
miller snagged a 6-2, 6-0 win on the no. 3 court to seal an irish sweep of their sunday opponents before gleason, closs and robinson each sealed up 6-4, 6-1 victo­ries to ensure a shutout win for notre dame. 
The irish are set to return to action Feb. 12 as they start conference play at home against pittsburgh. 



Track 
conTinued From page 12 
performance, especially given how little she’s trained for the race this year. 
“it was very impressive con­sidering she’s only been practic­ing hurdles over the last three weeks,” Turner said. “everyone else has been doing this since the fall, so she’s off to a great start this season.” 
The women had a number of other solid performances. in the mile, freshmen annie heffernan and rachel dadamio finished fifth and ninth, respectively, while in the triple jump, junior Taylor craft reached 11.51 me­ters, good enough for third place. The 1,600-meter relay team of sophomores parker english, payton miller and Jordan shead and senior margaret bamgbose came in the runner-up spot with a time of 3:42.49. 
on the men’s side, the irish had several standout perform­ers in the field events. Junior anthony shivers came in third in the weight throw with a toss of 19.56 meters and continues to pursue the irish program record. 
“he’s been getting really con­sistent,” Turner said. “right now we’ve been trying to get him at that 20-meter mark, and he’s been hitting 19.5, 19.6, so any day now he should break the school record of 19.69.” 
The irish also got contribu­tions from a pair of freshmen in the field events; matthew birzer finished third in the high jump, hitting 2.04 meters, while daniel hardiman placed ninth in the shot put Friday with a long throw of 14.34 meters 
Turner said he was particu­larly impressed with sophomore Kirk hansen, who came in sixth in the 600-meter run with a time of 1:20.61 on Friday. 
“he is progressing nicely,” he said. “it was a good opportunity for him to get in there and get some races in, and he ran very well, so i think he will continue to run well this weekend at the mayo invitational.” 
This upcoming weekend will mark the high point of notre dame’s indoor season, Turner said, as the irish are set to host the meyo invitational on Friday and saturday. 
“we’re in the heart of the sea­son now, and we have our biggest meet coming up this weekend at home,” Turner said. “The com­petition is going to be pretty stiff in every event. … i’m looking to have a bunch of my athletes have their season bests this upcom­ing weekend, and we should do that.” 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 


Swimming 
conTinued From page 12 
efforts into the next few weeks.” 
For notre dame’s seniors, it marked their last meet at rolfs aquatic center. on a weekend during which the irish celebrated the careers of more than 10 se­niors, litzinger talked about the significance of getting a win in the seniors’ last home meet. 
“The seniors’ final home meet is always a special one,” he said. “To compete for a final time at rolfs, where we spend so much time, has a special significance, but to be in front of family and friends adds to the emotion of the day. The win is certainly the goal, but ultimately it was icing on the cake for our men and women.” 
The irish women will return to action Feb. 17 for the acc cham­pionships at greensboro aquatic center in greensboro, north carolina, for the acc champion­ships, while the men will head to the same location a week later for their shot at conference crowns. litzinger spoke about how his team will prepare for the cham­pionships during the long layoff. 
“The acc has become one of 
the premier swimming and div-compete among the best in the ing conferences in the country,” ncaa. i believe we will be ready litzinger said. “our preparation and accept that challenge.” will be geared to planning. we need to manage our performanc-Contact Michael Ivey at  es, expectations and prepare to mivey@hcc-nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | The observer 


MEN’S TENNIS | norThwesTern 6, nd 1 
Irish unable to halt slide against Wildcats 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
notre dame lost for a third straight match Friday, drop­ping a 6-1 decision against no. 21 northwestern at combe Tennis center in evanston, illinois. The irish (2-3) got their lone win from senior eric schnurrenberger, who posted a 6-3, 2-6, 6-4 win over wildcats junior Fedor baev at no. 4 singles. That was the bright spot of an oth­erwise dominating day for the wildcats (4-1), who jumped out to an easy doubles win and never looked back. The slow start by the irish was something head coach ryan sachire believed hurt his team the most on Friday. 
“we did not get off to the start we needed to, starting with the doubles match but also several of our early sin­gles matches,” sachire said. “i think for the most part guys finished matches better than they started them – we need to initiate our confi­dence and competitiveness early on.” 
The wildcats quickly picked up the doubles point, coast­ing to easy wins on courts 2 and 3. northwestern ju­niors Konrad Zieba and sam shropshire defeated irish juniors eddy covalschi and Josh hagar 6-2 at no. 2, while senior mihir Kumar and ju­nior alp horoz defeated irish freshman grayson broadus and schnurrenberger 6-1. 
northwestern took a 2-0 lead when the 50th­ranked shropshire defeated covalschi 6-1, 6-4 at no. 2 singles. shortly after, the wildcats clinched the win with back-to-back deci­sions on courts 6 and 3, re­spectively. broadus fell to northwestern freshman ben vandixhorn 6-4, 6-3, while junior strong Kirchheimer secured northwestern’s win with a 6-3, 6-4 win over notre dame senior alex lawson. 
sachire said the irish will have to key in on working out their individual and col­lective problem areas as the season goes on in order to be­come a stronger, more com­petitive team. 
“There’s an emphasis on starting faster, and having a confidence and energy level that is high enough to com­pete against quality compe­tition,” sachire said. “every individual has some things to work on, whether it’s ten­nis related or competition related, but i’m confident in 


W Basketball 
conTinued From page 12 
a layup that gave the blue devils a 39-37 lead. 
as allen sat, notre dame struggled to get anything going on offense, hitting just three of their 17 shots in the quarter, or contain duke’s efforts. 
“The third quarter was tough for us,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “duke made a run without lindsay on the floor, and we couldn’t get into a rhythm offensively, and it was tough. it was bad at both ends. we didn’t guard that well, and we didn’t run anything on offense, so we’ve got some work to do when she goes out of the game.” 
The blue devils only shot 38 percent in the third quar­ter, allowing the irish to keep it close as they trailed 47-45 headed into the fi­nal frame, but notre dame wasn’t able to find one of its key players, either. 
“i felt we did a poor job of executing and getting the ball in to [brianna Turner],” mcgraw said. “i think we could’ve exploited the high post a little bit more. offensively, i thought we really didn’t play well, and credit their defense for some of it, but we just missed some shots that we’ve been making.” 
with their starting point guard back on the court, notre dame picked up mo­mentum in the fourth quar­ter and pulled away after cable’s big 3 with a 13-0 run in the final minutes. 
cable  scored  18  total  
points,  including  three  
buckets  from  behind  the  

arc, to pace notre dame, and ogunbowale was close behind her with 16. 
sophomore forward brianna Turner collected her first double-double of the season with 12 points and 13 rebounds while holding duke sophomore forward/ guard azurá stevens to 14 points on 4-of-14 shooting. 
“i think she was disap­pointed in her free throws [shooting 4-of-10], but again, i think we just didn’t get her the ball enough, but i thought the key to the game was her defense on stevens,” mcgraw said. “stevens is their best player, and she shut her down, held her to four points in the second half.” 
with its ninth conference win secured, notre dame looks to keep its perfect acc record intact when it next takes the floor Thursday against north carolina state at purcell pavilion. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 

our guys.” this season to take on the weekend last Friday, but will 
For sachire’s squad, the no. 7 Fighting illini at 7 look to bounce back into the upcoming schedule does not p.m. Friday at atkins Tennis win column against the illini. get any easier, as notre dame center. notre dame fell to will head to champaign, illinois 4-0 in the open-Contact Joe Everett at  illinois, for the second time ing round of the iTa Kickoff jeveret4@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 68, duKe 61 
Nearly bedeviled 

Cable, Turner lead Notre Dame to come-from-behind victory on the road 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
no. 3 notre dame is 47-1 against acc opponents since joining the conference a little more than two years ago, but for much of the sec­ond half of monday’s game against duke, a second loss looked like a very real possi­bility for the irish. 
That is, until graduate stu­dent guard madison cable nailed a 3-pointer from the wing in the fourth quarter to retake the lead for the irish and then notched a steal and a layup two trips later to help secure the 68-61 win at cameron indoor stadium in durham, north carolina. 
The victory for notre dame (21-1, 9-0 acc) thwarted an upset bid by the blue devils (16-7, 5-4), who are unranked in the ap poll in consecutive weeks, the first time they’ve been out of the top 25 since 2000. 
however, duke boasts one of the best home-court advantages in the country and had it on display during the second half of monday’s game. 
The irish jumped out to an early lead, leading by as many as 13 points in the sec­ond quarter, thanks in part to freshman guard arike ogunbowale’s 12 first-half points off 5-of-8 shooting. 
but the blue devils caught some momentum shortly before halftime after irish junior guard lindsay allen and duke freshman guard angela salvadores were whistled for offsetting tech­nical fouls on a jump ball play. notre dame closed the second quarter by missing seven of their nine field-goal attempts while the blue devils went on a 7-0 run to bring the game to 35-27. 
a few minutes into the third quarter, allen was pulled for a spot on the bench after picking up her third foul, which came on 
see w bball PAGE 11 

FOOTBALL 
Luatua to leave ND 
Observer Staff Report 
sophomore tight end Tyler luatua will transfer from notre dame following the end of the 2016 spring semester, accord­ing to a statement released by the university on monday. 
The 6-foot-2 1/2 luatua played in 20 games over his two seasons with the irish, starting three of them. luatua was mainly used as a blocking tight end and did not record a reception. 
had he remained at notre dame, luatua would have been part of a crowded depth chart in the spring, as junior durham smythe, sophomore nic weishar and freshman alizé Jones have all seen ex­tended snaps at the tight end spot. 
according to multiple re­ports, luatua will transfer to byu once he completes his studies in the spring. 

TRACK & FIELD | indiana universiTy relays 
Turner pleased with squad’s effort in Bloomington 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
notre dame travelled down­state to bloomington, indiana, this weekend for the indiana university relays, where both the irish men and women had solid performances, totaling 26 top-10 finishes against elite competition from around the country. 
“we wanted to, as a whole, improve on what we did in the previous week at the notre dame invitational,” irish head coach alan Turner said. “we didn’t ... perform as well as i wanted to [last week], so i was looking for across the board solid, credible performances from the team.” 
graduate student Kaila barber delivered in the 60-me­ter hurdles, registering the top time of 8.31 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles preliminar­ies Friday before winning the event in saturday’s finals with a time just one hundredth of a second slower. Turner said he was impressed with barber’s 
see TracK PAGE 10 

SWIMMING & DIVING | shamrocK inviTaTional 
irish women sweep invitational 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame hosted the shamrock invitational at rolfs aquatic center this past weekend, and the irish women topped all three opponents while the men grabbed a win over one of their three foes in the two-day meet. 
irish head coach mike litzinger said after the meet that he was pleased with his team’s overall performance. 
“i was very happy on our pro­gression as a team,” litzinger said. “The whole idea is to have people mature their competitive approach, hone their racing skills and execute in a competitive en­vironment. They did just that. most of all i am pleased with the responsibility they have for one another. They are becoming a team.” 
litzinger also said his team needs to improve on the little things before the acc champion­ships, the next swim for both the men and women. 
“[we’re] always working on detail,” he said. “The bulk of our heavy training is done. now we need to reinforce great habits, rest and sharpen our focus on cham­pionship swimming.” 
The women competed against illinois state, iowa and grand canyon, winning against all of them. among the highlights from the women’s competition, the irish set a new pool record while winning the 400-yard freestyle relay with a time of 3:20.29. Junior catherine mulquin, freshman ella moynihan, freshman sofia revilak and senior catherine galletti swan in the race for the irish. The men won against missouri state, but lost to both grand canyon and iowa. Junior Trent Jackson won the 200-yard freestyle in one of the better mo­ments of the weekend for the notre dame men. 
litzinger said his message to the team after the meet was a pos­itive one. 
“we are always evaluating, and self-evaluation is powerful,” litzinger said. “we only have a few weeks until championship time and i asked everyone to live a championship lifestyle, be proud of what they have accomplished during the year and pour their 
see swimming PAGE 10 




