ThE INDEpENDENT To uNCovEr NEwSpApEr SErvINg ThE TruTh NoTrE DAME AND AND rEporT SAINT MArY’S IT ACCurATElY 

voluME 50, ISSuE 113 | thursday, march 31, 2016 | NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM 
Lecture reflects on Justice scalia’s legacy 
Law professor considers Scalia’s influence on the future of the Supreme Court and American law 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
News writer 
In the midst of the fight in washington over the nomina­tion of Judge Merrick garland to the Supreme Court fol­lowing the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, the Young Americans for Freedom host­ed the o’Toole professor of Constitutional law at Notre Dame, Anthony J. Bellia Jr., to discuss the legacy of Justice Scalia, a man who Bellia called the “the second most influen­tial conservative of the twen­tieth century behind ronald reagan.” 
Bellia said there were ma­jor differences between the Federalists, who support­ed the implementation of a strong court, and the Anti-Federalists who feared the power of an unelected body with such great sway. 
“Justice Scalia, in a sense, was the modern day torch­bearer of the argument that courts should have a self im­posed limited role in the way that they decide cases,” Bellia said. 
“Justice Scalia’s primary legacy is that he was a propo­nent, of when it came to the constitution, giving effect to its original meaning, how is the constitution understood as a public matter at the time it was adopted, when it came to statutes, he was in favor of textualism,” Bellia said. 
Bellia said Scalia’s approach approach towards interpret­ing the constitution, followed a doctrine called “original public meaning.” 
Scalia believed, according to Bellia, that “what is relevant is not the intent of those who 
see SCAlIA PaGE 3 

CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 


Author explores democratic rule 
By JENNA WILSON 
News writer 
Abraham lowenthal, profes­sor emeritus of international relations at the university of Southern California, delivered a lecture on democratic transi­tions wednesday afternoon. The lecture was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute of International Studies and focused on the book lowenthal published with Sergio Bitar titled “Democratic Transitions: Conversations with world leaders.” 
“we know full well that ours is not a book of rigorous com­parative politics with quantifi­able and comparable data … we focused must of our attention on political leaders at the apex of government parties or politi­cal movements,” he said. “[This book is a] different form of com­parative politics but it produces something that may or may not be political science, but it cer­tainly gives us access to political wisdom which may be harder to achieve than political science.” 

lowenthal said that he and Bitar interviewed 12 former presidents and one former prime minister while gathering infor­mation for the book. lowenthal said he only studied cases of democratic transitions where countries had no reversals back toward authoritarian regimes after switching to democracy. 
“Democratic governments are not perfect and complete anywhere,” lowenthal said. “however, as democratic transi­tions are occurring the propo­sition is that people who are involved in making that happen ought to be able to learn from cases where [democratization] has succeeded.” 
According to lowenthal, he and Bitar more than over three hours interviewing these politi­cians in order to understand the contributions made toward the democratic progress. 
“we had a strategic objective 
see lECTurE PaGE 3 




Professor receives grant 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
News writer 
laura Kloepper, an assistant professor of biology at Saint Mary’s, will be joined by two un­dergraduate students to study bat echolocation this sum­mer thanks to a grant from the office of Naval research 2016 Young Investigator program Award (YIp), for her project “Biologically inspired ap­proaches to overcome mutual interference by active sensor system.” 
According to the office of Naval research website, “YIp seeks to identify and support academic scientists and engi­neers who are in their  first or second full-time tenure-track or tenure-track-equivalent aca­demic appointment ... and who show exceptional promise for doing creative research.” 
Through her project, Kloepper will combine biology, physics and engineering to determine how bats manage to avoid inter­ference when leaving caves at over 1,000 bats per second. 
“They’re making these echolocation sounds in really dense groups, and they should be ‘jamming’ each other, but somehow they’re able to over­come this challenge and still be able to use their echolocation,” Kloepper said. “Everything we 
see grANT PaGE 5 


SMC announces new major 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
The Saint Mary’s department of chemistry and physics will offer majors in the field of phys­ics in addition to the existing chemistry major. 
Ian Bentley, associate profes­sor of chemistry and physics, said there was a fair amount of student interest in having physics as a major. 
“Everyone that I would talk to about it knew of a student that was interested,” he said. “You add those all up and see that it’s quite a few students who have been interested in physics, not just one.” 
According to Bentley, the de­partment discussed the poten­tial of creating a physics major, especially to support the stu­dents in the engineering dual degree program with Notre Dame. The program allows Saint Mary’s students to gradu­ate with a degree from Saint Mary’s before transferring to Notre Dame for a fifth year to earn their engineering degree. 
Chris Dunlap, chair of chem­istry and physics at the College, said when Bentley was hired in the fall of 2014, there was no physics major or minor. 
see phYSICS PaGE 5 


NEwS PaGE 3 vIEwpoINT PaGE 7 SCENE PaGE 9 FooTBAll PaGE 16 MEN’S BASKETBAll PaGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla Mullen                      Cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Alex Carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: Clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Claire radler Sports Editor: Marek Mazurek 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Nicole Caratas Photo Editor: Caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: Susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei Cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: Mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
What is your favorite South Bend restaurant? 

Caroline Koenig 
sophomore 
regina hall 
“Fiddler’s hearth.” 
Emily Peppers 
first year 
McCandless hall 
“Cheddar’s.” 
Grace Ward 
first year 
regina hall 
“hacienda Mexican restaurant.” 

Mary Bollard 
junior 
le Mans hall 
“laSalle grill.” 
Morgan Kinniry 
sophomore 
le Mans hall 
“Chicory Cafe.” 
Sarah Mead 
first year 
McCandless hall 
“hacienda Mexican restaurant.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Want your event included here? 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Promoting Diversity Comparative Politics Interfaith Crawl 2016 Human Dignity Diverse Student 
Systems & Web Administrators 

(574)631-8839 Geddes Hall Workshop Coleman Morse Lecture Conference 
3:30 p.m. - 5:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center for Center McKenna Hall Rice Commons 
Policies 
Discussion about International Studies 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of Notre community 3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Visit various faith John Cardinal Keynote speaker Mary 
Dame du lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, engagement. Research forum. traditions in Michiana. Onaiyekan will speak. Burke. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. “1916: The Irish Acappellafest 2016 ND Softball vs. Rejoice! Mass “Intensitalia: An 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Rebellion” Screening Carey Auditorium Florida State Dillon Hall Evening with Mina” possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
DeBartolo Performing 8 p.m. Melissa Cook Stadium 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Washington Hall 

majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, Arts Center See all five ND 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. Mass rooted in 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 8:30 p.m. - 10:30 p.m. acappella groups The Irish take on the African-American Live music influenced necessarily those of The observer. 
Includes keynote. perform. Tickets $5. Seminoles. tradition. by Italian singer Mina. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Students give back to South Bend 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 

post office Information said. “The stage we’re at now is moving That’s put on Indiana landmarks, and it’s 
The observer (uSpS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday By MEGAN VALLEY 
except during exam and vacation periods. Newswriter from a point where we only did commu-an old Queen Anne house that students are 
A subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. nity service to having a partnership with going to help restore.” 
The observer is published at: 

024 South Dining hall Notre Dame students will venture into South Bend. I think that working along-In conjunction with Back the Bend, direc-
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices South Bend to participate in community side members of the community not only tor of campus ministry Ethan Muehlstein 
poSTMASTEr 

Send address corrections to: service this Saturday, as part of the seventh shows that we’re supportive in the old-organized the Michiana Interfaith Crawl, 
The observer 

p.o. Box 779 annual “Back the Bend Day.” fashioned sense that we used to, but we’re also on Saturday from 10 a.m.- 3 p.m. The 
024 South Dining hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 rohan Andresen, director of the de-also eager to partner with them and work Crawl will provide transportation to sever-
The observer is a member of the Associated press. 

All reproduction rights are reserved. partment for community relations, said alongside them to make it a better commu-al places of worship in the Michiana area. Back the Bend is an option for students to nity for both of us.” “[Muehlstein] approached me about serve in the South Bend community and As of Tuesday, approximately 150 people having a joint event because it matches is particularly geared toward those whose had signed up to participate, according up perfectly with seeing the other parts extracurricular activities do not typically to Andresen. he said this number should of South Bend and civic engagement,” include service. climb to anywhere between 250 and 400 Andresen said. “I think it’s going to be a re-

News Sports 

rachel o’grady hunter McDaniel “Back the Bend is an annual day of com-participants by Saturday. To accommodate ally great complement to the normal proj-Martha reilly Maureen Schweninger 
munity service and civil engagement,” so many people, the organizers, includ-ects we usually do.” 
Kathryn Marshall 
Andresen said. “It’s a really good oppor-ing many community partners like the Muehlstein said in an email that the 
Graphics Scene 
tunity for students who aren’t engaged in robinson Center, planned a wide variety of Interfaith Crawl is aimed to “establish new 

lucy Du Erin McAuliffe 
clubs that normally do service to get the projects. relationships with many faith communi-
Photo Viewpoint 
opportunity to do at least some service “The most popular ones and the ones ties in South Bend. ” 

Chris Collins Scott olehnik 
once a year.” students really flock to that are actually “The interfaith crawl is paired with Back previously called Communiversity Day, repeating from years past are murals at the Bend because it is getting students out the name was changed last year to Back the robinson Center and at Colfax Bridge, and into the community, which is the focus 
Corrections 
the Bend in recognition of the 150th anni-painting fire hydrants and art crosswalks, of this annual event,” he said. “Each year 

The observer regards itself as versary of South Bend. This year, Andresen which are just crosswalks that are designed we hope to establish a positive relationship a professional publication and 
said there was a much bigger push to part-creatively,” Andresen said. “There’s one with South Bend. Being a religious hub, strives for the highest standards 
ner with South Bend organizations and with piano keys, a Notre Dame-themed this interfaith crawl allows students to re-

of journalism at all times. we do, 
include community members who are not one. ally immerse in other cultures so close to 

however, recognize that we will make 
students. “Then there are ones that are more like campus.” 

mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
“The role that Notre Dame has played manual labor, like working at unity gardens 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so with South Bend has really evolved since and doing whatever gardening stuff needs Contact Megan Valley at  
we can correct our error. the beginning of Notre Dame’s time,” he to be done, as well as restoring 1905 house. mvalley@nd.edu 

NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM | thursday, march 31, 2016 | ThE oBSErvEr 


studENt sENatE 

group requests assault information 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
News writer 
Student senate gathered wednesday night to discuss and approve a resolution requesting the publication of a quarterly re­port detailing instances of sexu­al violence on campus. 
The resolution was pro­posed by Keenan hall senator, sophomore wilson Barrett, and Cavanaugh hall senator, sopho­more Kathleen rocks. 
rocks said because the stu­dent body does not receive a crime alert in response to every act of sexual violence reported on campus, students receive a false impression of how many instances of sexual violence are reported each year. 
“The point of having these quarterly reports is so that stu­dents can understand the grav­ity and extent of this problem and hopefully be spurred to act on it,” she said. “we find it very important for students to be aware of what’s going on … when you go by the emails you think there’s only three, four, five [incidents]. It’s terrible to get those emails, but you don’t real­ize the extent of the problem.” 
Barrett said he and rocks hope this resolution helps stu­dents realize sexual violence is a community issue. 
“It’s all public [informa­tion], so theoretically every student could do this, but this just makes students more aware and gets the information out there,” Barrett said. 
Additionally, the group dis­cussed and approved a proposal to amend the constitution of the undergraduate student body regarding the composition of the Club Coordination Council (CCC). 
CCC president, senior Marisa Thompson, said the amend­ment would allow members of the CCC to hold a position on the Student union, which was previously banned due to a per­ceived conflict of interest. 
“right now, as it stands, anyone who is on the Club Coordination Council cannot hold any other position within the Student union,” Thompson said. “we didn’t think [this] was necessarily within the spirit of delineating those members within the constitution because we didn’t see there to be a con­flict of interest in having those members explicitly defined in the constitution itself.” 
Judicial Council president, senior Zach waterson, said the amendment gives students more freedom to join clubs that interest them. 
“The real crux of [the] amend­ment is whether or not they’re representing a body to the rest of the Student union,” he said. “As the CCC reps represent a 
pAID ADvErTISEMENT 
club to the CCC, it was Marisa’s judgment that holding that po­sition isn’t going to put you in a conflict of interest because we don’t keep people in the Student union from joining clubs.” 
The senate also approved an amendment to the constitution of the undergraduate student body regarding the procedure for amendment. 
waterson, who proposed the amendment, said it states that before an amendment is pro­posed to Senate, the Judicial Council president and the di­rector of the Department of Internal Affairs must be con­sulted about it, “specifically how consistent it is with the constitution.” 
“over the last year I have continued to … [move] Judicial Council to a collaborative role and as a resource for the other Student union organizations, and collaborating especially in efforts pertaining to the Student union constitution,” he said. “[This] also ensures that we don’t pass amendments that perhaps haven’t been fully considered or introduce fur­ther inconsistencies into the constitution.” 
The Senate also voted to ap­prove junior paulina Eberts as next year’s CCC president. Thompson said in a letter that Eberts’ enthusiasm shows through her work with the CCC. 
“[Eberts] has actively made an effort to engage in a wide va­riety of enriching extracurricu­lars as a member of the Notre Dame student body,” the letter said. “her dedication to the CCC and its efforts on campus makes her well-equipped to serve as its president.” 
Because this was the final senate meeting for the ricketts­ruelas administration, student body president Bryan ricketts gave his State of the Student union speech to the senate. ricketts said over the course of the past year, he has learned what it means to be a student leader. 
“It’s someone who actually has a desire to do something,” he said. “They believe in the ability of students to collectively make a difference. They believe in the value of engaging with difficult issues and that a commitment to change means that students can and should be partners in that change.” 
ricketts said he has also re­peatedly asked himself, and challenged the members of sen­ate to ask themselves, “where were you when it happened?” 
“As this term comes to a close, I’m happy with my answer to that question,” he said. “I hope you are too.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
Lecture 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 1 
of learning as much as we could in a finite amount of time, of how these leaders un­derstood the process of transi­tion from authoritarian rule to democratic government,” he said. “[we want to learn] key prinwciples from the experi­ences of leaders who played diverse, but key roles, in achieving democracy across the globe.” 
lowenthal said he and Bitar focused on past events in or­der to learn what works and what did not work for coun­tries in transition to demo­cratic societies. 
“we learned that there is no central casting model for a successful democratic tran­sition leader,” he said. “one of the contributions of our books, looking at the inter­views, is that it reminds us that the transitions were not quick, they had their ups and downs, zig-zags and reversals, but [these leaders ultimately] did change the politics in their countries.” 
According to lowenthal, one of the most important is­sues that new democratic leaders face is revising an old constitution or drafting a new constitution for the coun­try. lowenthal said that the 
scalia 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 1 
drafted it, it’s the meaning that the public would’ve understood it to have when it was ratified.” 
“As he applied this approach throughout the years, it led him to many results that were not particularly conservative or liberal,” Bellia said. “There are many opinions he wrote enforc­ing constitutional rights in a way that reached quite liberal outcomes.” 
Bellia said Scalia believed in textualism. 
“when it came to interpret­ing statutes, not the constitution but acts that are passed by con­gress, you have a similar debate, but not exactly the same one, Justice Scalia was a textualist, he believed that federal judges should try, in interpreting federal statutes, to give them a meaning that reflected the natural or ordi­nary meaning of the textual lan­guage,” Bellia said. 
Bellia said the vacant bench on the court left by Scalia’s death could have significant effects on 
u.S. law. 
“There are a whole series of cases dealing with congressio­nal power, they are big cases and they were all decided 5-4, with four justices in dissent all saying that if we get the votes, were going to overturn this.  on many issues the court is 4-4, if Judge garland is confirmed ... those cases I pre­dict will all flip,” Bellia said. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 
constitutional drafting pro­cess in itself must be inclusive and it must promote inclusiv­ity across the country. 
“Democracy is not an im­ported commodity. It has to be grown locally,” he said. 
lowenthal said that he stud­ied how to mobilize interna­tional support for a country in the midst of a democratic tran­sition without discrediting lo­cal agencies. however, when an international actor comes into a country without being invited, and forces a system of democracy in place, that can hinder the country’s chances for lasting democracy. 
“we learned obviously that there is no easy recipe, no clean and clear model, no handbook for best practices that you can apply every­where,” he said. “however, we did come to realize in the process of transition from au­thoritarian to democracy, the very process poses recurring issue that occur in all these cases. The role of leadership is really understanding those challenges and confronting them. Most of our interviews were focused on these recur­ring challenges. we engaged in dynamic conversations with these leaders to learn as much as we could.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at  jwilso35@nd.edu 


pAID ADvErTISEMENT NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM | thursday, march 31, 2016 | ThE oBSErvEr 




Physics 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 1 

however, in order to best ad­dress the needs of students — particularly those in the dual degree program — the depart­ment chose to create a major program instead of just a minor. 
“A minor was not going to match the needs,” Dunlap said. “Between engineers who wanted a more applied approach to the mathematics and a group of stu­dents who were really interested in physics, we at the department decided we would move forward with the major.” 
Bentley said the department will offer two different degrees with three possible majors as well as a minor. There will be a physics Bachelor of Arts degree, a physics Bachelor of Science de­gree and a physics and applied mathematics (pAM) Bachelor of Arts degree, Bentley said. The two pAM degrees are offered through the math department while the BS and BA in physics will be through the department of chemistry and physics. 
Bentley said the Bachelor of Arts degree requires between 34 and 38 credit hours, the Bachelor of Science requires 60 credit hours, and the pAM degree re­quired between 49 and 53 hours. The minor requires between 17 and 18 credit hours. 
Dunlap said the construction on the science hall was intended to renovate some labs and also to accommodate the new major. 
“The basement [of the sci­ence hall] is all physics space,” Dunlap said. “we have the same amount of space dedicated for physics as before, but now it’s its own floor.” 
Bentley said there are cur­rently two students declared as pAM majors and one student as a physics major, all three of which are in the dual-degree program. he said there are also about three to four first years who have physics as an intended major. 
Adding this major may in­crease enrollment, Dunlap said, specifically in the science, tech­nology, engineering and math (STEM) fields. 
“what we’ve done is we’ve filled in a hole in the STEM fields that Saint Mary’s has had for­ever,” Dunlap said. “we’ve never had a physics major at Saint Mary’s … This is a very exciting time for the STEM departments because it gives us another op­tion for our students to pursue. 
“we never really knew how many students might have come to Saint Mary’s if this were avail­able because we’ve never had it,” Dunlap said. “we’re really inter­ested to find out now how many students are out there who might be now attracted to physics at a women’s college.” 
Bentley said this will help students in the duel degree program because it will of­fer a wider range of applicable majors and will open doors for students to enter the mechani­cal and electrical engineering fields. 
“I think it makes it feasible for students who are interested in applying mathematics,” Bentley said. “I think we’re hitting that 
pAID ADvErTISEMENT 
niche that, to some extent, we missed before. If you’re think­ing about mechanical engineer­ing or electrical engineering, the most feasible route was to major in math. Now we have [physics] which is more applied.” 
Sophomore physics and me­chanical engineering major Erin patterson said she was deciding between majoring in chemistry or in mathematics when she first heard about the physics major and realized that it worked better for the dual-de­gree program. 
“I wanted to apply math not just write proofs and definitions,” patterson said. “I considered the different types of engineer­ing that paired best with these majors. After talking with Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s profes­sors and Saint Mary’s students, I found I shared some of the same interests and disinterests with mechanical engineers, and I knew physics paired well with mechanical engineering.” 
rachel Bonek, a sophomore pAM and electrical engineer­ing major, said she originally planned to be a math and engi­neering major, but with the new pAM major, it made more sense for her degree. 
“I am excited that another science major is offered at Saint Mary’s,” Bonek said. “I think it’s important to continue to in­crease the number of women in math and science, and having the physics major here will defi­nitely help.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Grant 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 1 
know now says they shouldn’t be as good at echolocation as they are, which means we’re missing something that they’re doing.” 
As society gradually moves towards a more automated so­ciety, the Navy and general pub­lic have an increased interest in sonar and radar technology due to its influences on every­thing from unmanned vehicles to backup sensors on cars, she said. 
To explore bat echolocation and interference, Kloepper will use the program money over the course of three years to fund 
“A bat cave is the 
most bizzare, 
interesting 
environment. 
You feel like an 
astronaut walking 
on another planet 
when you have the 
gear on like that. ” 
Laura Kloepper 
assistant professor of biology 
a team including herself, two Saint Mary’s students and engi­neers to study bat caves. 
“My work really is about as in­terdisciplinary as you can get,” Kloepper said. “I’m in the biol­ogy department but I use math, I use physics, I use computer programming. I use all these different fields of science in my work so I need to have the right team of people for this project to succeed.” 
This summer, Kloepper, her dog and two students will road trip from South Bend, through Kansas and New Mexico and down to Texas, stopping at vari­ous bat cave sites along the way. At the sites, they will set up camp and record the sounds of bats with microphones in various ar­rangements, Kloepper said. 
She said the information, paired with video analysis and thermal imagery, will be col­lected during the night and then analyzed during the day by the team and the help of some en­gineers. She said she is excited to provide this sort of focused field experience to Saint Mary’s juniors Stephanie Dreessen and Cassi Mardis. 
“I think first and foremost it’s going to give the students a taste of what field work is truly like,” she said. “we do a lot of lab stuff on campus, but at most under­graduate institutions it’s hard to get a taste of what real field work is like. They’re also going to get a taste of what it’s like to do a long term project.” Kloepper said hav­ing time with students in remote areas lacking cell phone service and wi-Fi breeds a great intense and scientific environment 
“we’re going and recording the bats at night, and then dur­ing the day we’re sitting around the bunkhouse or campfire and we’re talking about what we observed, talking about what we’re finding in our data analy­sis, getting into really great sci­ence and life discussions,” she said. “I craved something like that as a student, and I never got that opportunity until I was in graduate school.” 
Kloepper said she feels like an excited little kid when she thinks about going back to the caves and doing research, and she is excited to share that enthusiasm with her students when they step into the bat caves wearing rattlesnake protection boots up to their knees, tyvek suits, full face respirators and head gear to protect against the ammonia and histoplasmosis of the bats. 
“A bat cave is the most bi­zarre, interesting environment,” Kloepper said. “You feel like an astronaut walking on another planet when you have the gear on like that.” 
“It wasn’t until graduate school that I really got that field work, that gritty kind of the day in-day out work, when you’re so engrossed in your project ... and you can’t stop thinking about it,” Kloepper said. “Some people hate that but I love it. I think situations like that bred creativ­ity. when you’re in the midst of a question, that’s when you have the thing in the back of your head that says ‘huh, I wonder if … ’  and that can turn into its own research.” 
Kloepper studied at Boston university and taught high school biology before pursu­ing a ph.D. at the university of hawaii, where she studied dol­phin echolocation. Kloepper’s interest in bats started during her post doctoral research after she saw a bat cave and identified a gap in bat research concern­ing echolocation in large, dense groups, she said. 
“Science is never just this ‘ask a question, get the answer you’re done’. It’s an ongoing process, you’re always building ques­tions on prior work. So when you can find that small area of a field where there hasn’t been much work done, you have much more opportunity to get ask big­ger questions. I think I’ve done a pretty good job identifying the opening, the gap in the research and trying to say ‘ok, let’s take it from here,’” she said. 
Kloepper said as both a pro­fessor and researcher, she em­braces the opportunity to be the face of science for her stu­dents and for people who’s only image of a scientist comes from textbook pictures of Einstein or Darwin. 
“You don’t have to be this old man cloistered away to do sci­ence,” she said. “The reality is not most scientists are like that. we’re young, we’re excited about our work, we’re on Twitter. This project isn’t just scientific pa­pers with our colleagues. The most effective communication is when you can share your re­sults and communication with the world ... and everyone loves bats.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



INsIdE coLumN 

Equality of outrage 
Lucas Masin-Moyer 
News writer 

recently, a letter to the Editor titled “objections to the laetare Medal Decision,” was published in the observer. This letter expressed objection to the university’s decision to award the laetare Medal to vice president Joe Biden. The medal is given “in recognition of outstanding service to the Church and society. It is considered the oldest and most prestigious award for American Catholics.” This letter asserted that because of vice president Biden’s pro-choice stance on abortion, support of embryonic stem cell research and other issues, he should be disqualified from receiving this award. while I respectfully disagree with this viewpoint, I do acknowledge that vice president Biden’s stance on these issues does come into direct contrast with Catholic social teachings. however, what bothers me most about the objection to the awarding of the medal to vice president Biden is the lack of of outrage towards the other recipient of this medal, former Speaker of the house John Boehner. 
If vice president Biden’s support of abortion rights dis­qualifies him from receiving the medal because it contrasts with Catholic Social teachings, then Speaker Boehner must also be disqualified from receiving the award. The right to life may be an important part of Catholic Social Teaching, but it is far from the only of these teachings. 
In their 1998 book, “Sharing Catholic Social Teaching: Challenges and Directions,” the united States College of Catholic Bishops state that “The Dignity of work and the rights of workers” is one of the seven themes of social teaching; former Speaker Boehner has repeatedly violated this teaching. The uSCCB goes on to explain that this teaching is aimed at guaranteeing, “the right to productive work, to decent and fair wages, to the organization and joining of unions, to private property and to economic ini­tiative.” In 2007, Boehner voted nay on hr 980 — Collective Bargaining for public Safety officers, an act that protected the most basic right of unions, that of collective bargaining, for police officers. In 1993 Boehner voted against the Cesar Chavez workplace Fairness Act, a bill that stops employ­ers from hiring permanent replacements when employees strike. In contrast, Biden has been a strong supporter of labor rights, voting in favor of a later iteration of the Cesar Chavez workplace Fairness Act, the Striker replacement Act in 1994. 
Another part of the “right to life” aspect of Catholic Social Teaching that has been used against Biden regard­ing his stance on abortion is, according to uSCCB, a strong opposition to the death penalty. According to the uSCCB, “The value of human life is threatened by…the death pen­alty.” however, in April 1994, Boehner voted against a bill that would have replaced the death penalty with life im­prisonment, and in 1996 he voted against maintaining the right of habeas corpus in death penalty appeals. 
The uSCCB also asserts that Catholic Social Teaching, “instructs [Catholics] to put the needs of the poor and vul­nerable first, another teaching which Speaker Boehner has not always embraced. In 2009, Boehner voted against ex-
SMC alumna makes the mission possible 
Jennifer Vosters 
Belleview 
The morning after graduation, my friend and for­mer classmate Catherine Sullivan, a Saint Mary’s 2015 graduate, boarded a plane to washington, 
D.C. to discern a two-year position with Franciscan Mission Service (FMS), an internationally focused lay mission program. After three months of classes on cultural sensitivity, white privilege, racism, sex­ism, globalization, Catholic social teaching and more, Catherine left for Cochabamba, Bolivia’s fourth largest city. Since January, she’s been working with abandoned children and women in or just released from prison. The majority are survivors of domestic violence. 
Coming from an American women’s college, Catherine is now working in a country with domestic violence murder levels high enough to be declared femicide. But, as she told me in an email last week, it’s not necessarily because numbers have gone up, but because more cases are being reported. There is hope after all, according to Catherine, because it means “women are finally realizing their rights here.” 
But with no solid education base about gender-based crimes, inequality can be a difficult problem to unravel. “Many [women] are raised in households where their fathers beat their mothers and so they believe this to be normal,” Catherine said. The cycle is further complicated because many women have used Christianity as justification for domestic vio­lence, accepting their suffering in solidarity with Christ’s. 
Catherine believes the u.S. still has a long way to go toward complete gender equality but acknowledges that it is further along than many other countries. “As a young woman who has been raised and taught to be sure of her rights, proud of her sex, and aware of her strength, I have a responsibility to fight for the rights of those women who have not been offered what I have been offered,” she wrote. “It starts with giving them an opportunity to realize their own human dignity.” 
For a generation already famous for rejecting con­ventional career paths and seeking meaningful ways of connecting with an aching planet, mission work 
— though difficult on many levels — may be well suited for adventurous millennials like Catherine. But her one-on-one work with women and children isn’t quantifiable with numbers or data. She is not in Bolivia to change the entire society or culture or laws: “I have no right to do that in a society and a culture that is not mine to begin with,” she stressed. “My work is one woman at a time. get to know them, form a real friendship, a friendship that builds them up and helps them to see their own strength and their own dignity and capabilities.” 
Negotiating differences in culture, ethnicity and religion in a postcolonial world — where the scars of appropriation, racism and cultural extermination run deep — is admittedly a challenge. Catherine said most missioners either stay outside of the culture when they are not “working” — by hanging out with other missioners from their country and sticking to their own traditions — or deny their home country and try to be “as Bolivian as possible.” She tries to maintain a balance by speaking only in Spanish and learning everything she can about Bolivian culture and history while also honestly representing her Irish-Italian heritage and American nationality. “I think it all comes down to friendships,” she said. “There is no hiding who you are in a true friendship, and that’s what I am here to form, so I can’t be any­thing but me.” 
Nonetheless, years of colonization, enslavement, persecution and globalization weigh heavily. “Me, being of white skin, living and volunteering in a country of people who have been made to feel infe­rior to people of white skin, of English tongue, is not easy on anyone involved,” she wrote. She’s been of­fered work positions and compliments based on her skin, eye and hair color; a fellow missioner was of­fered an agricultural management position multiple times instead of the native Quechua women who were better qualified for the job. There is not a mo­ment when missioners cannot be aware of what their presence signifies. 
But in their experiences with FMS, missioners are expected to confront, question and challenge rac­ism in their own lives. “our very presence in the systemically racist world makes us pawns in its racist games,” Catherine wrote. “The only way we can fight to not be racist is if we consciously and purposefully walk backwards on this moving walkway of racism. It is a constant, constant action.” 
Such action is necessary, and programs like Franciscan Mission Service are opportunities for a restless generation to make the difference so many crave. Catherine believes everyone should consider programs like FMS, which sends missioners to Bolivia, Jamaica and guatemala, but she cautions: “Do not do service because you think you have some­thing to teach, or you owe it to the world to share your knowledge and gifts. You will learn much more than you teach.” 
I write a lot about gender and racial injustice, but Catherine walks the walk. She’s equipping herself to be a force for good in individuals’ lives and allow­ing them to change hers. So consider if mission work might be how you could best step into a postgraduate world that needs listeners, leaders and servants. And while you’re discerning, adopt a mission attitude in your life today. we’re all on the racism — and sexism 
— walkway. let’s start walking backwards. 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

panding the Children’s health Insurance program and in 2006 voted against expanding Section 8 housing vouchers aimed at enabling low income families to buy homes. 
while there are legitimate complaints against vice president Biden receiving the laetare medal, when looking at Catholic Social Teachings, there must then be an equal­ity of outrage when dealing with the other recipient of this award, former Speaker of the house John Boehner. Catholic Social Teaching does not apply only when it is convenient on certain issues that one agrees with. If one is to truly em­body these teachings, they must embrace all aspects, not just those that support a certain narrative. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



ThE oBSErvEr | thursday, march 31, 2016 | NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM 

The erotic life of John Paul II 
Christopher Damian 
Ideas of a university 

A couple of years before he became pope John paul II, Cardinal Karol wojtyla wrote to a polish woman: “god gave you to me and made you my vocation.” The letter was one of more than 700 saved letters between he and Anna-Teresa Tymieniecka, a polish-American philosopher he met in 1973. The year before wojtyla’s letter, Anna-Teresa had supposedly written that “she desired to be in his arms and remain there in happiness.” he gave her a scapular he had received from his father at his first communion. She sent him pressed flowers and photographs from her home. Their deeply intimate relationship lasted his lifetime, continuing as she read to him on his deathbed. The whole time she was married to harvard economist hendrik houthakker. 
According to reporter Ed Stourton, the letters suggest that John paul always kept his vow of celibacy. But some, including professor Eamon Duffy, criticize such emotional intimacy as “extremely unjust to the other partner [Anna­Teresa’s husband] who is being deprived of that kind of intensity with their spouse.” wojtyla also admits of tension in writing about Anna-Teresa’s “being torn apart” by her feelings for him. Though he “could find no answer to these words,” “some moral certainty of grace” moved him to con­tinue the relationship. Still, John paul might be criticized for persevering in what many call an “emotional affair.” 
Such an “affair” among respected Catholics is not unique to John paul. In the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries, Dante Alighieri wrote several Sonnets for and perhaps hundreds of pages about Florence’s beautiful Beatrice, though his wife’s name was gemma. gemma goes unmentioned in his works. 
If we’re concerned about emotional adultery, it’s odd how highly praised Dante’s “Comedy” finds itself among even theologians. Dante’s treatment of Beatrice borders on obsession, and he maintains his devotion to her even after his marriage to another woman. It’s far afield from the calculating, judiciously circumscribed and psychiatrically prescribed extramarital loves of middle-class Christian millennials. Dante decided at the age of nine that Beatrice was the “youngest of the angels,” and in some ways she bore this image in “The Comedy,” completed a year be­fore his death. Dante’s extreme fixation may have made Beatrice into more than an object of affection, but, rather, a lens through which he came to view everything, even the journey to the “paradiso.” 
If not sexual in the modern sense, Dante’s love for Beatrice and John paul’s love for Anna-Teresa were certainly erotic in the classical sense, in a developed sense of plato’s “eros” and Dante’s own “amore.” I suspect that part of the modern frustration felt for the forgotten spouses comes from the disjunction between the classical and the modern erotic. This frustration may have culminated in the west’s enshrinement of same-sex intimacy into the institution of marriage. There’s a stigma towards extramarital erotic inti­macy that drives all erotic intimacy towards, and demands all erotic intimacy within, marriage. There’s a relationship between professor Duffy’s comments and obergefell vs. hodges, in regulating emotional intimacy just as strictly as sex. 
A recent BBC documentary on John paul’s letters suggests some sort of vatican conspiracy to cover up the “emotional affair” of John paul the great. This is unclear. regardless, it is quite odd that Anna-Teresa was barely mentioned in his biographies — only once in george weigel’s biography, in a footnote — and that the National library of poland refuses to publicly release his letters or share any letters written by her. 
This tendency to downplay or hide certain aspects of the late pope’s intimacy mirror in many ways the ten­dency to gloss over certain aspects of his ascetic life. This isn’t surprising, certainly not more surprising than gloss­ing over anti-Catholic views of politicians in awarding them an award for “outstanding service to the Church.” Sometimes we choose to honor half a man (or half of two men), because it’s easier to write a consistent narrative of life and politics and honor if we turn a blind eye to the contradictions. 
professor John Cavadini frequently says that “the saints are the people who stretch our imagination, because they interpret the mystery of the faith through the medium of their lives.” If John paul the great really is a saint, then his life and love are an interpretive key to both the gospel and his own Theology of the Body. And they are worth not only admiration, but also imitation. 
No letters suggest he violated his commitments as a priest, and he held Anna-Teresa’s husband in high esteem. he is a man who challenges us, but he is a man of integrity, not simply a politician, but a coherent and un-fragmented whole. Melinda Selmys writes that he “blazed a trail” for the pursuit of love. The question is whether and how we can follow it. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence 
J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LEttErs to thE EdItor 
Members of the mosaic 

The annual Notre Dame Student peace Conference will be held this year on April 8 and 9 in the hesburgh Center for International Studies. This forum, organized by students, for students, will be an opportunity for both undergraduate and graduate students to participate in fruitful, engaging discussions and showcase their work on topics related to peace-building, social justice and global issues. It will also include a keynote address by Timothy phillips, co-founder and CEo of Beyond Conflict, a global non-profit dedicated to building peace and reconciliation around the world by connecting, inspiring and empowering diverse communi­ties and leaders. 
last year, the conference theme “persisting Challenges, New Frontiers” brought us together to contemplate the ways in which scholars, peace practitioners and community leaders can engage effectively and directly in issues of peace and conflict, despite their vast complexity. This year, our theme is “Members of the Mosaic” and reflects how each individual brings to the table a powerful uniqueness — when the multiple talents, diverse experiences and personal distinctiveness of these individuals exist in relationship to one another, something greater emerges. This “something greater” is a broader image, a bigger picture that encom­passes new horizons and innovative solutions to challenges that threaten the peace and security of our world. 
what exactly does our mosaic look like? what image does its kaleidoscopic puzzle pieces portray? It is the im­age of students from various academic and professional disciplines making significant contributions to their fields while integrating talents and collective capabilities across multiple areas of study. It is the image of productive dia­logue regarding some of the most pressing international issues of our time. It is the image of an enhanced coalition of peace builders, responsible citizens, and decision mak­ers present and future. It is an image of peace more tangible and potent than any disheartening image of violence and strife so frequently portrayed on the news. Most impor­tantly, it is an inclusive image, one that invites us all to share our talents, to become a member of the mosaic. To join us, register by April 1 for free on our website: http://www3. nd.edu/~peacecon/ 
Tess Rinaldo 
senior March 29 
Free speech is idealistic 

I view the concept of free speech as idealistic not only because of the hypocrisy behind its most common sup­porters, but because it is based on the idea that all forms of speech are inherent to the human condition, and should therefore be defended. This would imply that one’s thoughts and opinions are not the result of any material reality, but simply an abstract process based on the indi­vidual’s free will. Mental culture is just as much a result of a society’s productive process than anything. If we live in a society where racist and sexist thoughts are expressed at all, it is not because those individuals have decided through their own free will to have those prejudices, but because of their place in the greater whole of our stratified society. Society is a self-developing organism; the attitudes and beliefs of its members are not the result of any exter­nal inspiration, but a reflection of their material realities. 
The current trend in the defense of free speech is based on a bourgeois concept of expression. As a side effect of capitalist economies, this concept is almost entirely ir­relevant to the economic realities that people face. under capitalism everything is commodified, including speech. A factory worker can say whatever they want, but their opinion will be eclipsed by billionaires who possess the capital to fund news stations and other media outlets that will effectively push out their opinions, thereby silencing them. In fact, political opinions are a business as well, and wealthy capital owners make a profit out of “selling” their political outlets (news stations, newspapers, web­sites, etc) to the workers. This is why false consciousness is so high among the working class but so low among the rich. Their position in capitalist society has given them a monopoly on opinions, and workers end up “buying the product.” what we’re left with is a working class that not only believes that their current place in capitalism’s social stratification is deserved, but that resisting it would be hypocritical, and that they would be “betraying” those that have exploited them for surplus value. 
This is an issue that many civil rights activists and au­thors have been concerned with over the years. Based on the subject of the speech involved, the common fear was a state that was able to police the words and consequently thoughts of their citizens. But it does not take a govern­ment representative or a police officer to carry out this action. whenever social stratification exists, those on its higher end are able to suppress the speech of everyone else in favor of maintaining the status quo, and whether they believe that they are doing so or not, they are sup­porting the state, which gives them institutional power over others. 
To oppose hate speech is not to oppose freedom of ex­pression, because the speech in question is being used to silence the expression of others. Most hate speech we’re exposed to today favors the interest of the state, rather than humanity as a whole. For free speech to become a reality, social stratification by race, class and gender would have to be nonexistent. 
Daniel Esparaza 
junior Feb. 29 
ThE oBSErvEr | thursday, march 31, 2016 | NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM 


By ADRIAN SANCHEZ 
Scene writer 

Extra! Extra! The latest installation of the beloved ac­tion-techno lp series “underworld: The Major Motion picture” is set, this time, in the wilderness of Barbara’s eyes — the band-members’ newest muse interpreted by award-winning synthesizers and drum machines — and once again directed and produced by the infamous rick Smith and Karl hyde. unlike their past work, however, “Barbara Barbara, we face a shining future” features fewer action sequences and places greater emphasis on emotional tension in the frame; it is a deviation from the duo’s traditional aesthetic, but though an admirable step it puts the piece at critical risk among polarized elec­tronic elites. 
while in the past underworld’s albums have been wonderfully three-dimensional, their latest work is ev­erything but cinematic. That might not necessarily be a bad thing, but for a band that takes pride in its fabrica­tion of surrealist techno and jungle landscapes, a release that shirks these comes across as uncharacteristically flat. Fortunately, the band is plainly talented enough to pull off some great moments, and in fact several of the songs on this lp successfully build towards a satisfying climax. however, in most cases these come at the price of overlong and rather tired musical foreplay. 
The song “If rah” is the most egregious abuse of this sort. The seven-minute song takes about five to evolve 
Miko Malabute 
Senior Scene writer 

let’s establish something right now: At the risk of truly sounding “too millennial,” social media is a way of life. 
Early last week, the sports world went up in flames as people expressed their frustrations and confu­sions: not because of the height of March Madness, not because of the absolutely outrageous material coming out of the different political campaigns, but because NBA superstar leBron James unfollowed the Cleveland Cavaliers’ Twitter account. Never mind the fact that — with the NBA playoffs around the corner 
— leBron has set a precedent for this last year with his “Zero Dark Thiry-23,” where “he avoids social media and the rest of the outside noise.” There are quite a few NBA superstars now who don’t follow their respective teams but are still on good terms with each other. 
But this column is not about athletes and if they follow their teams on Twitter. what was more head-scratching was the backlash from the leBron-Twitter news, countless people saying on their own Twitter accounts how this is a non-story. people brushing this into one of the album’s catchiest cuts, but that front half is quite arduous with its repetitive and rather unoriginal saw synths. Also, hyde’s pseudo-poetic slam-Sprechstimme was interesting on “Dubnobasswithmyheadman,” but throughout this lp it often sounds tedious and exhaust­ed — evoking lCD Soundsystem on diazepam. 
perhaps because they are most congruent with this mood, the slower, more emotive tracks here are the most effective. “low Burn” is particularly memorable with its skillfully-crafted ambiance, but once again hyde’s vocals, awkwardly devoid of pitch, are a bit jar­ring. The track “Motorhome” is similar but a definite improvement, with a moving tone and quality to match the band’s earlier work. on the other hand, songs like “Santiago Cuatro,” a track that is almost entirely acous­tic guitar solo, is likely to calm you to sleep, but not at all in a good way — it detracts from the pace the album had theretofore set. 
After finishing this album, I was left curious about which steps the band should be taking as regards their future output. Just a couple of years ago, Karl hyde teamed up with electronic luminary Brian Eno to release two albums, “Someday world” and “high life.” I have yet to listen to the former, but the latter was an impressive showcase of hyde’s ability to warp sound in unconven­tional ways to revolutionize, as he accomplished with underworld in the early 90s. of course, “high life” was leagues more oblique than “Barbara Barbara, we face a shining future,” but it could easily and comfortably have 
off as a “non-story” because the nature of the story centers around Twitter, a social media platform that still feels “fun,” not holding the same weight as a hard-copy newspaper or a talking-head on a national news station. let’s face the facts, though: Social media is now an integral part of our lives and how we consume popular culture. During every sporting event and television special, we are plugged into our timelines at the same time. Solely focusing on one screen is a thing of the past; the “second screen,” as it’s known, allows us to participate in the live global discussion that’s simultaneously happening. 
So, we don’t get to say that this is a non-story be­cause it evolved on Twitter or because it’s “just anoth­er instance of social media weakening the fibers of our society.” It is a story because of how prevalent social media has become in our lives, no matter if we’re the average Joe or leBron James. In fact, social media has served as a mutually beneficial platform for celebrities and their fans. 
The soccer web publication These Football Times described the effect social media has had on one of the world’s most well-known celebrities, Cristiano ronaldo, and his brand. Not even seven years ago, ronaldo and his team were doubtful when Facebook urged him to create a fan page with the potential to borne the name of the latter. The shining future of “high life” was surrealist, skillful, pleasantly wonky, but ul­timately optimistic. This lp is somewhat more somber, certainly more subdued and overall less impressive, leaving the listener with a more uncertain outlook. 
To me, it seems clear that underworld as underworld has overstayed its welcome. while the group may con­tinue along this path with confidence that it will produce decent releases in the future, it is difficult to imagine it producing anything nearly as revolutionary as its past releases. It is time for these gifted artists to take greater risks, embracing the lengths of their creativity with a cutting-edge project that will once again take the world by surprise. 
Contact Adrian Sanchez at asanch11@nd.edu 
“Barbara, Barbara, we face a shining future” 
Underworld 
Label: Universal Track: “Motorhome” If you like: The Chemical Brothers, Cybotron, Brian 
Eno 

get 10 million followers. As of this day, ronaldo has more than 110 million fans on Facebook. It is quite easy to imagine how celebrities are able to monetize their popularity, and with the omnipresence of social media, celebrities are also able to connect on a more personal level with their fans — giving us an in-depth look into their lives that was simply not feasible in the not-so-distant past. 
The story of leBron unfollowing the Cleveland Cavaliers’ Twitter account is admittedly pretty frivo­lous and would have been insignificant if this had oc­curred as recently as a decade ago. however, this story must be looked at through the lens of today’s culture 
— we can’t write this off as insignificant because we’re still afraid of social media. And leBron can’t just dismiss this question because his brand is directly ef­fected by the popularity of his social media platforms. 
Social media has connected us as people and has opened up communication and dialogue in ways that we may not have thought as easy or feasible. The “second screen” will likely stay on for quite some time, and we need to acknowledge its importance. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabute@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LUCY DU | The Observer 
ThE oBSErvEr | thursday, march 31, 2016 | NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM 


LUCY DU | The Observer 



crossword | wIll ShorTZ 

Just add watEr | JohN roDDY & ErIC CArlSoN sudoku | ThE MEphAM group 


FLING by sPrING | rIlEY MCCurrIE 

horoscoPE | EugENIA lAST 
Happy Birthday: precision and dedication will be necessary if you are to reach your personal and professional goals. waiting to see what others do will cost you. Believe in your abilities and strive to do your own thing. protect your heart and your health, and refuse to be pressured to follow someone who is tempting you to indulge in bad habits. Your numbers are 6, 10, 17, 24, 30, 37, 42. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Compliments will come your way, but keep in mind that someone may be trying to coax you into revealing personal information that is best kept private. Trust in your own judgment and knowledge to help you succeed.           

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): raise issues that concern you. use facts to prove your point. Apply for a position, update your resume or engage in conversations that allow you to show what you have to offer. love is on the rise, but secret affairs are best avoided. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take care of your health and financial concerns. Don’t try to buy your way into something. A relationship will be on shaky ground if financial comments are involved. Save, and avoid debt. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more creative and unique you are, the more interest you will drum up. present your ideas with passion and don’t let anyone downplay your ability to bring plans to fruition. Make your personal relationships a priority.   

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your desire for change will come at a price. Find a responsible way to get what you want. Discipline and hard work will be more rewarding than you anticipated. Believe in what you do and others will believe in you, too. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You’ll have the edge if you stand your ground. Bring about the changes at home or to your financial situation that will ease stress and encourage an important relationship to blossom. Don’t fold under pressure. Fair is fair. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Be observant when dealing with friends, family or your partner. Failing to recognize when someone is having a problem can turn into an emotional situation that tries your patience. listen and offer solutions, understanding and the willingness to accept change. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Attend a reunion or get together with someone you enjoyed working with in the past, and good things will transpire. A celebration with someone you love will bring you closer together and could lead to long-term plans. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be honest, but don’t share information that could be used against you. Stick close to home and make improvements that will boost your confidence or add to your assets. Avoid situations that could result in poor health or injury. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your money and possessions in a safe place. look for alternative ways to earn extra cash. Don’t let what others do tempt you to make an impulsive choice. Focus on stability and long-term security, not a fast fix. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): rely on the people you have been able to count on in the past. An unusual turn of events will unfold, leaving you an unexpected surplus. good things will happen if you work on self-improvement projects and living a healthy lifestyle. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stay on track no matter what other people do. Anger will slow you down and lead nowhere. Don’t bicker over senseless matters. offer love and affection over anger and disputes, and you will improve an important relationship. 

Birthday Baby: You are emotional, caring and obsessive. You are daring and entertaining. 
JumbLE | DAvID hoYT AND JEFF KNurEK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556

 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 


NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM | thursday, march 31, 2016 | ThE oBSErvEr 


sPorts authorIty 

‘Tis the season to be undrafted 

Michael Ivey 
Sports writer 
It’s that time of year again. The season is ending for most college teams and their fans are wondering if some of their play­ers will stay in college or take their talents to the professional level. 
But I’m not talking about col­lege basketball players. I’m talk­ing about college hockey players. Free agent college hockey play­ers, to be exact. 
Yes, this is the time of year when most free agent college hockey players sign entry-level contracts with Nhl teams look­ing to add depth to their orga­nization near the end of the season. 
The common free agent col­lege hockey player is a little older than the normal age of college seniors, around 22-24 years old. After high school, these players spend about two or three years playing junior hockey before enrolling in college. Some do this to try and gain size and strength to compete better at the college level. Some do this because this is their only way of getting scouts to see them play and hope to get offered a scholarship. 
These players go undrafted by Nhl teams for whatever reason. Maybe they’re not big enough, strong enough, don’t have enough skill, speed, etc. The typical college hockey free agent is a “late bloomer.” They don’t give up on their dreams of playing professional hockey and work to prove themselves by developing into dominant col­lege players. 
over the course of three or four years, they become just that. They dominate their op­ponents and lead their teams to wins and championships while also earning individual awards themselves. Many people watch these players and ask them­selves, “why wasn’t this guy drafted?” Some Nhl general managers ask themselves the same question. 
luckily for Nhl general man­agers, they have the opportunity to rectify this mistake by signing that player to an entry-level con­tract when that player’s college season ends. hockey is differ­ent from most sports. College hockey players, whether they have already been drafted or not, can sign an Nhl contract with a team once their college season ends and play right away for that organization. Most play in the minors, but there are a number of players that play with the big-club right away. 
look no further than last week, when Minnesota State ju­nior defenseman Casey Nelson signed with the Buffalo Sabres and made his Nhl debut a few days later. he recorded an as­sist on a goal scored by hudson Fasching, who also signed with the Sabres just a few days before. Fasching played at the university of Minnesota the previous three years and was drafted by the Sabres back in 2013. 
Another example of an undrafted college free agent playing in the Nhl right away is current Detroit red wings defenseman Danny DeKeyser. Back in March 2013, DeKeyser signed with the wings after spending the previous three sea­sons at western Michigan and contributed right away, record­ing an assist in 11 games that spring while also playing in two Stanley Cup playoff games. 
The current list of top free agent college players include Nelson, St. Cloud State senior defenseman Ethan prow (who just signed a contract with the pittsburgh penguins), North Dakota junior defenseman Troy Stecher and senior forward Drake Caggiula, and harvard senior forward Jimmy vesey, who announced he won’t sign with the Nashville predators, the team that drafted him, and will become a free agent August 15. 
Signing a free agent out of college is a smart investment for any Nhl organization. It’s a low-risk, high-reward free agent signing that doesn’t cost the team that much money and can be very beneficial to a team if the player is able to contribute at a high level like the examples mentioned above. If a player doesn’t work out, the team can release him after a couple of seasons playing in the minors. It also provides more opportu­nities for hockey players to live their dream of playing in the Nhl. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


swImmING | NCAA ChAMpIoNShIpS 
plaschka sets new record 
By JOE EVERETT 
Sports writer 
In the past couple weeks, both the men and women’s swimming programs sent several athletes to the 2016 NCAA championship, held in Atlanta on the campus of georgia Tech at the McAuley Aquatic Center. 
The women’s meet was held March 16-19, where Notre Dame qualified one swimmer and three divers. Freshman Ella Moynihan represented the Irish in the 200 free, where she placed 50th in the overall standings, clocking in with a time of 1:47.46. with three more years ahead of her on campus, Moynihan reflected on her experience swimming in the fastest meet of her life. 
“My biggest takeaway…was how talented and fast the fe­male swimming world is and how much work and dedication it takes to be one of the best in this sport,” Moynihan said. “It was motivating to watch the girls winning national titles and knowing that they will most like­ly be representing our country in the upcoming olympics. It’s a fast meet, and it sure takes a lot of work to get there.” 
As for the divers, seniors Emma gaboury and lindsey Streepey dove in the 1-meter, finishing 38th (252.70) and 41st (240.20), respectively. gaboury and sophomore Annie Crea also competed in the 3-meter, with gaboury taking 29th (290.70) and Crea finishing 43rd (273.80). 
on the men’s side, there was a bit of record-breaking involved. on the first day of competition, sophomore Justin plaschka, the only individual invitee from Notre Dame, aimed to break class of 2014 alumnus Frank Dyer’s school record time of 
19.57 in the 50 free. he did just that, breaking Dyer’s mark by one one-hundredth of a second. plaschka, who called the level of competition and overall atmo­sphere at the meet “so unlike any other college meet I’ve been to”, finished tied for 20th in the event. 
That same day, the Irish 200 free relay team finished 18th in the prelims (1:18.62), with plaschka swimming the leadoff leg in 19.74, followed by fresh­man Daniel Speers (19.34), fresh­man Tabahn Afrik (19.69) and junior Trent Jackson (19.85). 
later in the evening, the Irish swam in the 800 free relay, fin­ishing 21st in a time of 6:28.37. Jackson swam a leadoff split of 1:35.55, followed by Afrik (1:36.26), Speers (1:37.84), and freshman Matthew grauslys (1:38.72), a last-minute substi­tute for junior reed Fujan, who withdrew with illness. 
Then on Friday, plaschka swam in the 100 fly, touching the wall in 47.26 and grabbing 41st place. on Saturday morning, he finished 38th overall in the 100 free with a time of 43.58. To finish their participation in the meets, the Irish 400 free relay finished 20th in the standings, with the lineup of plaschka (43.34), Speers (43.49), Afrik (43.14), and Jackson (43.75), compiling a final time of 2:53.72. First year head coach Mike litzinger said the Irish had their share of struggles this year but did a good job overcoming them. 
“My first year was a great ex­perience, and one that was filled with challenges,” litzinger said. “however, those challenges were very good ones and ones that took a full team effort, by the athletes, coaches and adminis­trators. All credit for our success goes to how everyone handled the myriad of changes thrown at us.” 
The NCAA championship meet concludes the season for the men’s and women’s pro­grams. The Irish now look ahead to the 2016 u.S. olympic Trial Meet June 26 through July 3 in omaha, Nebraska. 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu 
mEN’s tENNIs | vIrgINIA 6, ND 1; gEorgIA TECh 5, ND 2 
ND falters in ACC games 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
Sports writer 
over the weekend, Notre Dame headed south to take on virginia and georgia Tech in two conference road matches, drop­ping both contests. 
on Friday, the Irish (10-10, 4-4 ACC) fell 6-1 to No. 3 virginia (16-2, 6-0). The Irish struggled early against a talented and highly-ranked virginia team as the duo of seniors Quentin Monaghan and Alex lawson fell to virginia’s pairing of junior luca Corinteli and senior ryan Shane, 6-2, while Notre Dame junior Eddy Covalschi and se­nior Kenneth Sabacinski lost to Cavaliers sophomore Collin Altamirano and junior J.C. Aragone. From there, virginia quickly clinched as Altamirano beat Covalschi 6-4, 6-2, Cavaliers junior Thai-Son Kwiatkowski de­feated junior Josh hagar 6-3, 6-4, and Aragone beat lawson 7-6, 6-4. 
having already clinched, virginia did not ease up, as soph­omore henrik wiersholm defeat­ed freshman grayson Broadus 6-4, 6-3 and senior Mac Styslinger beat Sabacinski 6-4, 6-4. virginia earned the first six points of the match, but Monaghan kept the Cavaliers from shutting out the Irish, upsetting No. 8-ranked Shane in three sets. 
Irish head coach ryan Sachire said Monaghan’s victory was a testament to the talent and work ethic of one of the top players to come through the Irish program. 
“Quentin has been one of the best players in the history of the program to be honest,” Sachire said. “Shane won the NCAA title last year in singles, and actually beat Quentin in the semis, so it was a battle of two of the heavy­weights in our sport, and his win is a testament to him and how hard he’s worked.” 
Despite the scoreboard, Irish coach ryan Sachire said he was pleased with the performance for the most part. 
“our level of tennis was pretty good overall,” Sachire said. “we have to try to be a little more suc­cessful in big points. we didn’t get off to a great start, and obviously when you’re playing a great team, you need to get off to a great start. overall, the way we played was good, but they were just better in crunch time.” 
Then Sunday, the Irish trav­elled to Atlanta where they fell to georgia Tech (12-5, 5-2), 5-2. The Irish lost the doubles point to start the match as lawson and Monaghan fell to georgia Tech brothers redshirt senior Casey Kay and sophomore Michael Kay 6-2 and Sabacinski and Covalschi lost to senior Nathan rakitt and freshman Andrew li 6-2 on court No. 3. 
The next point for the Yellow Jackets came as sophomore No. 11 Christopher Eubanks dis­patched Monaghan 6-1, 6-2 on the top singles court. The Irish then claimed a point as hagar de­feated junior Cole Fiegel 6-1, 6-2. however, georgia Tech respond­ed by winning three straight matches to clinch the victory. rakitt defeated Sabacinski 6-2, 6-4, li beat Broadus 6-4, 7-6(7), and junior Carlos Benito was vic­torious over Covalschi in a three-setter, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4. The Irish ended the day on a positive note as lawson defeated sophomore Daniel Yun in a third-set tie­break 6-3, 6-7(5), 7-6(2). Sachire said it was a hard-fought match where the Irish missed a few key opportunities. 
“It was another really close match that we were in position to win,” said Sachire. “Every match in the ACC is really highly com­petitive, and that’s what it was on Sunday. I think they did a better job in key moments, and we played with a little too much stress.” 
The Irish continue ACC play at home this upcoming weekend, taking on No. 22 Florida State on Friday and virginia Tech on Sunday. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 



basEbaLL | ND 16, vT 4; ND 6, vT 2; ND 5, vT 2 
Shepski leads ND in three-game sweep 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports writer 
last weekend, Notre Dame rode a three-game sweep of virginia Tech to its first over-.500 record since the start of confer­ence play. 
The Irish (12-10, 4-5 ACC) bats came alive in Blacksburg, virginia, starting with a 16-4 pounding of the hokies (10-16, 1-8) on Thursday night, led by sophomore designated hitter Jake Shepski. 
Shepski had a record-setting night for Notre Dame, tallying three home runs, a triple and a double in the victory for a total of 17 bases, nine rBIs and four runs scored. he hit a solo homer in the first inning, a three-run homer in the second, a two-rBI triple in the third, a three-rBI homer in the fourth and a double in the eighth, finishing just a single short of hit­ting for the cycle. his three home runs are the first for the Irish since Matt Edwards did it in March of 2005, and he is believed to have recorded the most total bases and rBIs in single-game history for Notre Dame. 
“Just kind of like any other day, I was just trying to go out there and compete and help the team win,” Shepski said. “I just walked up to the plate with some confidence, trying to get on top of [virginia tech sophomore starter packy Naughton]. I know he’s supposed to be a pretty good pitcher. he got behind in some counts on me, I got some good pitches, and it worked out well.” 
Freshman third baseman Nick podkul and senior catcher ricky Sanchez each recorded three-hit days for the Irish as well. The team combined for 16 runs on 21 hits and three walks. 
Junior right hander ryan Smoyer (2-3) tossed eight in­nings for the Irish, allowing three earned runs and striking out a career-high seven batters while earning the victory. 
The Irish followed up their 12-run victory Thursday night with a 6-2 win Friday behind 6 2/3 innings from starter Sean guenther (2-2), who allowed just one earned run on eight hits and two walks. Sophomore righty Brandon Bielak finished out the remaining 2 1/3 innings with two hits and no runs allowed, drop­ping his ErA to 0.69 on the season. 
At the plate, junior second base­man Cavan Biggio paced the Irish with two walks, a hit and three rBIs while freshman right fielder Matt vierling added two hits, an rBI and a run scored. 
Then on Saturday, Notre Dame completed its sweep with a 5-2 victory over the hokies. Biggio picked up where he left off Friday with a four-hit day at the plate, in­cluding a third-inning home run. The Irish scored one run in each of the first three frames before adding a pair of insurance runs in the top of the ninth. 
Sophomore righty peter Solomon threw five innings of three-hit ball, allowing a single earned run and earning his first win of the season in the process. Senior reliever David hearne fin­ished the game with four shutout innings, giving up just one hit and striking out four hokies. 
After starting 1-5 in the confer­ence, the three-game sweep gives a boost to Notre Dame’s confi­dence heading into a 13-game homestand. 
“That weekend was a huge weekend for us, to go out there and sweep,” Shepski said. “we knew we needed to have a good weekend just to get all of our heads in the right place and to set us up for the rest of the way, and I think that really helped our mind­set moving forward. I think we’re really looking forward to this weekend. we’ve got oregon [on Thursday] and then wake Forest this weekend, so moving forward we have more confidence. we had some really tough losses against both NC State and louisville, so this was good for us.” 
The Irish look to build on their four-game winning streak when they welcome oregon (11-9, 2-4 pac-12) to town Thursday. Notre Dame will then return to ACC play with a three-game set against wake Forest (17-10, 4-5) over the weekend. 
“we just need to go out there, play our game and play together,” Shepski said. “I think that’s the most important thing, that we have each other’s backs. Although baseball’s such an individual sport, I think it really comes out, especially in college baseball, when everyone gets hyped be­hind the guys that are playing and to have everyone moving on the same cylinder. we need to go out there with confidence, have our pitchers do their thing and have the hitters back them up. hopefully everything will be working together.” 
All four games this week will be played at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at        hmcdani1@nd.edu 
Nd soFtbaLL | ND 5, IpFw 0 

Irish pitchers shine in shutout win over IpFw 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports writer 
Notre Dame shut out IpFw 5-0 on wednesday night in a game at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
In the bottom of the first inning, freshman left fielder Ali wester opened the scoring by hitting an rBI single to bring in her sister, ju­nior center fielder Karley wester, for a 1-0 lead. The game was then a battle of the pitchers until the bottom of the third, when fresh­man designated player Caitlyn Brooks hit an rBI single to bring in another run for the Irish (25-5, 4-2). The very next at bat, senior first baseman Micaela Arizmendi hit a two-run home run to give the Irish a 4-0 lead. Karley wester added Notre Dame’s final run when she hit an rBI groundout in the fourth inning. The game was called in the top of the seventh inning due to inclement weather, giving the Irish the win over the Mastodons (10-23, 1-2 Summit). 
Karley wester finished 2-4 with one rBI, Ali wester finished 1-2 with one rBI, and Arizmendi finished 1-3 with two rBIs. Four Notre Dame pitchers were used in the game, giving up a total of two hits. Junior right hander rachel Nasland picked up the win for the Irish to improve her record to 9-0 on the year. Nasland pitched three relief innings and gave up no hits or runs while striking out four batters. Nasland came in re­lief for senior starter Allie rhodes, who gave up only one hit and gave up no runs. Sophomores right hander Sara white and lefty Katie Beriont finished the game for the Irish, giving up only one hit and striking out two between the two pitchers. 
when asked about what she thought was the turning point of the game for her team offensively, Irish head coach Deanna gumpf said she thought her batters were able to hit pitches more effectively their second time around at bat. 
“we just started having bet­ter at bats,” gumpf said. “The first time around, we swung at pitches their pitcher wanted us to swing at instead of staying in our zone and swinging at pitches we should be swinging at. That was the difference.” 
gumpf said she was impressed most by the pitching staff, who gave up only two hits off 82 total pitches. 
“I loved the pitching staff,” gumpf said. “I thought the pitch­ing staff did a great job. we were able to throw in four pitchers and I was really impressed with how they threw.” 
gumpf said she was most pleased with the overall perfor­mance of the pitching staff and her team’s defense and that she likes the direction her team is heading. 
“I liked what we brought on the mound and I thought our defense was really good,” gumpf said. “right now, we just have to focus on playing good, solid softball, and I think we’re getting there.” 
when asked what she thought her team needs to improve most on, gumpf responded that she thinks her team’s hitting needs some improvement and that her team needs to be more active in making things happen. 
“I would say our bats,” gumpf said. “we didn’t swing at pitches we wanted to swing at early and we kind of let things happen, and when we’re great, we make things happen and when we’re not we let things happen. So when we make things happen we’re fine.” spots they wanted to. 
gumpf said she thought that “our pitchers hit really good her pitchers did a good job of fool-spots today,” gumpf said. “They ing opposing batters into swing-used their off-speed really well.” ing at pitches and thought they The Irish will be back in ac-did a good job putting pitches in tion Saturday afternoon when 
pAID ADvErTISEMENT 

they host conference rival Florida State in a three-game series at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Michael Ivey at        mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
pAID ADvErTISEMENT 



ThE oBSErvEr | thursday, march 31, 2016 | NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM 

Football 
back on the field. The graduation of Joe people with him,” Elston said. “I see [hayes] right now be­“Shaun Crawford is a real Schmidt and Jaylon Smith “So he needs to make other ing able to help us in a pass-
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 16 
football guy,” lyght said. “he leaving early for the NFl people around him better rush situation, and hopefully 

loves the game, he studies Draft left a giant void in the and bring them with him on he can play the run,” gilmore “I think Max [redfield] has the game. he works at it re-middle of the Irish defense, days like today when, coming said. “It’s all a new position responded really, really well,” ally hard. obviously he was but linebackers coach Mike off of an Easter break, first for him, so how much he’s go­lyght said. “There’s open going to start for us last year Elston said junior linebacker practice is a little lethargic. ing to learn up from coverage competition at every posi-at the nickel position, had the Nyles Morgan has started es-Nyles was good, Nyles needs and that standpoint is going tion. The players are going to knee injury. Did a great job in tablishing himself as a leader to bring other people with to be a work in progress, but dictate who plays. The guys the offseason working to get of the 2016 defense. him, so that’s what I’d love to I’m hoping he can come in who are going to go out at a back and has been doing re-“Nyles is having a really see him grow.” and contribute and help us high level of consistency, who ally, really well as far as these good spring, very excited Another player Elston said this year. show a high level of produc-first six practices have gone. about his growth from the he wanted to see step into a “ … [Tillery is] going to tion day in and day out, show we’re really pleased with his offseason from where he was leadership role is senior line-have to learn more about pro-that they can handle the du-progress. a year ago,” Elston said. “his backer James onwualu. tections and knowing when rability, the workload and the “ … Drue Tranquill is such communication is much im-“James needs to step up and he’s got the one-on-ones and volume are going to be the an interesting athlete be-proved, he’s playing very be a leader,” Elston said. “he when he doesn’t. At nose guys that play and start.” cause of his size, his strength physical [and] his leadership needs to, along with Nyles, guard, you almost never had 
“Devin’s very talented, very and his power and his speed is much improved. he’s defi-bring guys with him. James is [one-on-ones] so the only good athlete,” Irish defensive combination. we can move nitely seen a great improve-an accomplished linebacker. thing you had to do was bull-coordinator Brian van gorder him around a lot and plus, his ment, and I’m excited about he’s getting better with what rush and keep the lane, the said, joining the list of those football intelligence, he’s the it. he’s having a really good he needs to do, and he’s at rush lanes closed. “ impressed by Studstill. “he’s type of guy we can put him spring.” a point now with his career van gorder said he has very committed to learning. at strong safety, we can put “[Morgan has] got a lot on where he’s able to do that and been impressed with another 
“And so in the end of it, the him at free safety, we can put his plate as the middle line-bring other guys with him, early enrollee along the de­competitiveness this spring him at outside back, we can backer,” van gorder said. “ … and he needs to vocally do it.” fensive line, Daelin hayes. 
— although Max should un-put him in the joker position. he’s a much different middle “Boy, he is a good look­derstand it a lot more than I think that when you move linebacker right now relative tillery, hayes shift along ing player,” van gorder said. Devin does — I think will a guy around like that, with to the other players’ trust. defensive line “Explosive, sudden, very di­be a good thing. we’ll prob-that position versatility, it re-his communication’s been Irish defensive line coach aled in, very competitive. I ably take it right into training ally strengthens your defense solid, so he’s been very good Keith gilmore said he’s been mean, it’s really driving him camp and see how both play-and that’s what we look to do so far.” tweaking and experiment-crazy not to get out there and ers react.” with Drue.” Still, Elston said he wants ing with the defensive line be able to play. But he’s doing 
Elsewhere in the second-“Drue’s very bright. very to see Morgan infect the rest this spring, and that has some individual stuff, and ary, two faces have returned good student of the game,” of the team with his attitude sophomore Jerry Tillery and during that individual stuff to action for the Irish second-van gorder said. “It’s impor-and energy. junior Jay hayes in new posi-his traits are, they’re really ary after missing all or most tant to him, so any task you “I think that his game has tions this spring. Tillery has obvious. of last season with injuries, give him, he’s going to work come along, and all the attri-shifted from nose guard to “he’s going to play a lot of and lyght said both sopho-at it.” butes that he has for what we defensive tackle while hayes football for us this fall.” more corner back Shaun want our middle linebacker has bumped outside to be-Crawford and junior safety morgan settling into to have is come along, but come more of a pass rusher, Contact Zach Klonsinski at        Drue Tranquill look good leadership role now he needs to bring other gilmore said. zklonsin@nd.edu 
pAID ADvErTISEMENT 
clock ran out. Buckeye senior 
m Lax 
attack Carter Brown brought 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 16 
ohio State within one, 9-8, 

with 2:27 left in the final pe­netting four of the next six riod. Brown went for the net goals scored in the first two again with 43 seconds to go, periods, putting them up, 4-3 but junior goalie Shane Doss at half. The Irish took only made his sixth save of the 13 shots in the first half, but game to secure the Irish win. they tallied 17 in the second. overall the Buckeyes beat Kavanagh’s third period goal the Irish 32-30 in shots and put the Irish up, 7-4, and they 27-22 in ground balls, while would never again give up winning 13 of 21 face-offs. their lead. “we struggled in riding oSu 
“As the season has gone on, as efficiently as we have been we have become more and all season,” Collins said. “our more comfortable playing ride is one of our strengths with each other,” Collins said. that has given us a lot of extra “we’ve been taking smarter possessions this year.” shots while moving the ball After three consecutive really well, and we can only wins, the Irish continue on continue to get better as the the road as they travel to ACC season progresses.” opponent Syracuse for a 5 
while Notre Dame held the p.m. Saturday game. lead for the remainder of the game, the Buckeyes kept the Contact Kit Loughran at        Irish on their toes until the kloughr1@nd.edu 




NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM | thursday, march 31, 2016 | ThE oBSErvEr 


w Lax 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 16 
can work on that, and contin­ue to build on our great draw work, continue to build on our great fast-break looks and build on our great pressure. 
“getting the ball back when they were on their stall at the end was something we were very proud of, limiting one of the best draw control special­ists in the country to three on the day, and winning the overall team battle. I was re­ally excited about that. It’s just building on what we have and staying composed in the moment, putting some finish­ing on the opportunities that we are getting.” 
halfpenny said she felt the team struggled in particular with converting opportunities and getting second-chance opportunities on offense. 
“obviously we’ve taken a look and identified some ar­eas that we could tighten our entire game,” halfpenny said. “It goes without saying that we got some beautiful opportu­nities, and we just didn’t fin­ish on enough of them. really, if you look back and you look at the game, we had some of those, not just those great opportunities that we didn’t finish on, but a couple that we didn’t get back. And that’s just about being comfortable with our personnel back there, let­ting that aggressive offense develop, getting those second and third chance opportuni­ties behind the cage, we just gave too many of those back to Syracuse and they took ad­vantage of them.” 
The Irish returned to their winning ways against Marquette (3-7, 0-0 Big East) on Monday, however. Although Notre Dame scored the first three goals of the game inside five minutes, the golden Eagles kept the game close to halftime, as the Irish entered the break leading 10-7. 
In the second half, though, the Irish added seven more goals and gave up only two, pulling away to win 17-9. graduate student defender Barbara Sullivan was again a highlight for the Irish de­fense, recording six caused turnovers. 
halfpenny said she was proud of her team’s second half performance and ability to play the style they have be­come known for. 
“I’m really happy with how the girls responded in the sec­ond half against Marquette,” halfpenny said. “Marquette response. our ability to play our style no matter who our opponent is, that’s the biggest thing we’ve been focusing on this year. I’m really proud of the team.” 

The Irish will next travel to Chapel hill to take on No. 3 North Carolina on Sunday. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at        doboyle1@nd.edu 
did a really good job with their pressure and their ag­gressive style of play. They were very physical, you could see that with the foul count. They tried to make the game ugly, and at times they did, but to see the composure that we held in the second half and how we got back to doing what we do, creating some beauti­ful fast-break looks, really, 



Jackson 
CoNTINuED FroM pAgE 16 
— the golden State warriors selected Troy Murphy 14th overall in 2001, while Adrian Dantley went sixth to the Buffalo Braves in 1976. 
while Jackson could have headed to the draft combine without hiring an agent and retained his NCAA eligibil­ity, he said he’ll do so in the next couple weeks after re­ceiving “positive feedback.” 
“I thought it was the best thing for me, just from the information I’ve received,” Jackson said on the plan to hire an agent. “[I] just want­ed to take the opportunity.” 
Jackson doesn’t plan to finish the spring semester at Notre Dame, instead opt­ing to focus on prepping for his professional career, but said his time on campus isn’t coming to a close. 
“I won’t be here for the rest of the semester to finish out academically, but I’ll still be around,” Jackson said. “As you know, this is my home, so my home is 15 minutes away, and Notre Dame is my home, so I’ll always be here. I’ll probably still be bother­ing these guys in the locker room and stuff like that.” 
Though Jackson won’t be enrolled in classes for the rest of this semester, he said he still plans on getting his degree. 
“I’m going to talk to our ac­ademic advisor and work on a plan to finish up,” Jackson said before quipping he’s “still got a long way to go.” 
really holding down the fort on defense in the second half, only giving up two goals, ob­viously that’s our signature, giving up minimal shots so we can let in minimal goals, and then taking the ball down the other end and making big plays out of our big defensive stops. 
“So I’m really happy with that, it just shows great 
Jackson leaves a Notre Dame program that’s vastly different from the one he entered. when Jackson com­mitted to the Irish in high school, Notre Dame hadn’t advanced to the Sweet 16 since 2003. 
Now he departs a program coming off two consecutive Elite Eight appearances. 
“I think that we really changed the culture of the postseason play,” Jackson said. “when I was in high school, people would talk about how Notre Dame would lose in the first round every year and things like that, but people don’t say that about us anymore. I just feel like we’ve really been able to accomplish some great things and make history.” 
Jackson said he thought about what next year’s squad would look like with him still around, but says he’s confident the Irish will have success in the 2016-17 sea­son without him. 
“At the end of the day, this team is going to be great be­cause of our coaches and just the players here,” Jackson said. “They work really hard every single day, and they bring — they really bring it. 
“This team is going to be great, and I look forward to watching them in their fu­ture success.” 
As a local product, Jackson said he’s proud of having the opportunity to represent the South Bend area. 
“It means so much to just kind of represent the whole 574 and just be able to just be a role model for some of the young kids growing up in the area,” Jackson said. “It’s been such a blessing to go to such a great university and just have some of the team­mates I had and have some of the people in my life I’ve had.” 
Jackson thanked his fos­ter parents, David and Beth whitfield, at Tuesday’s press conference. 
“without them, I wouldn’t be here; they gave me an op­portunity,” Jackson said of the whitfields. “They gave me a home. They gave me love. without my family, I wouldn’t be here today.” 
when asked if there’s anything he’d been look­ing forward to buying after signing his first professional contract, Jackson said he’d like to get something for his mother, Juanita Jones. 
“one thing when I was younger — I haven’t told very many people this — I promised my mother that I would kind of buy her a new home,” Jackson said. “That’s one of my goals, and hope­fully something I’ll be able to accomplish in the next couple years.” 
And when asked what his younger self would have thought watching the press­er, Jackson thought of one lasting emotion: 
“10-year-old me would probably be crying back there somewhere, just kind of happy, tears of joy. 
“Just happy.” 
Contact Alex Carson at        acarson1@nd.edu 


ThE oBSErvEr | thursday, march 31, 2016 | NDSMCoBSErvEr.CoM 
mEN’s baskEtbaLL 

Jackson talks NBA Draft, legacy at Notre Dame 
By ALEX CARSON 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Demetrius Jackson was born in South Bend, hails from Mishawaka and attended Marian high School just five miles away. 
But for the first time, the for­mer Irish guard is going to leave Michiana: After talking it over with Irish head coach Mike Brey on Tuesday, Jackson’s headed to the NBA. 
“This being my home, kind of leaving the home nest for the first time, [it’s] definitely tough,” Jackson said wednesday at a press conference. “But talking with Coach and talking with my teammates and everybody, they’ve really helped encour­age me and really helped me to understand that this is kind of the best decision.” 
when he’s selected in June’s NBA Draft, Jackson will be­come the third Irish player to be picked following his junior year 
see JACKSoN PaGE 15 

mEN’s LacrossE | ND 9, ohIo STATE 8 
Irish hold off Buckeyes on road 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
Sports writer 
The Irish capitalized on the third period to notch an on-the-road win over ohio State on Saturday. 
No. 2 Notre Dame (6-1, 1-0 ACC) exploded with four goals in the third period to beat the Buckeyes (5-5, 0-0 Big Ten), 9-8. Sophomore at­tack Mikey wynne kicked off the run four minutes into the period with his third goal of the game. Then, the Irish midfield took charge, with senior Kyle Trolley and soph­omore Brendan Collins each posting a goal. Senior captain and attack Matt Kavanagh closed out the opening eight minutes of the half with a goal of his own. 
“we came out to start the half playing aggressively and confidently,” junior midfielder Bob Collins said. “we moved the ball well and pushed it in transition oppor­tunities to set the pace of the game and gain momentum.” 
It was the underclassmen who helped the Irish gain that momentum. wynne put the Irish on the board in the first period. he tallied a sec­ond in the same half, after Kavanagh netted an unas­sisted goal with five minutes to go in the first period. Following Brendan Collins’ third period goal, another underclassman, freshman attack ryder garnsey put the Irish up, 8-5, in the fourth period with a man-advan­tage goal. 
“our underclassmen have been making huge contribu­tions in games, with Mikey and Brendan really stand­ing out,” Collins said. “But the biggest impact of the un­derclassmen has been them bringing their best every day that continues to make us better.” 
After wynne’s first-period goal, the Buckeyes took off, 
see M lAX PaGE 14 
FootbaLL 
Defensive coaches discuss next season’s starters 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Devin Studstill continues to receive glowing reviews from coaches this spring. 
The safety early-enrollee picked up some more praise from defensive backs coach Todd lyght when the defen­sive assistants met with the media on wednesday after practice. 
“Studstill, he’s an all-in guy. he’s a program guy,” lyght said. “ … [he] has done a great job of picking up the defense. obviously he’s made some mistakes because he’s young and learning the defense, but he’s done a great job with his attitude and effort.” 
lyght also said Studstill’s early showing has forced Notre Dame’s other safeties to elevate their game already in spring practice — partic­ularly senior Max redfield, who will be competing with the freshman come fall camp. 
“I think Max [redfield] 
see FooTBAll PaGE 14 


Nd womEN’s LacrossE | Su 12, ND 11; ND 17, Mu 9 
ND recovers from close loss at home 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame suffered a 12-11 defeat in a thrilling en­counter with No. 4 Syracuse on Saturday before bouncing back with a comfortable victo­ry over Marquette on Monday following a strong second half. 
The first top-five matchup involving Notre Dame in over a decade swung back and forth repeatedly. The Irish (10-2, 3-2 ACC) drew first blood through junior midfielder Alex Dalton, who scored a pair of goals to make it 2-0 after 10 minutes of play. Notre Dame extended its lead to four when senior at­tacker Kiera McMullen scored to make it 6-2. 
however, redshirt sopho­more midfielder Taylor gait scored for Syracuse (9-3, 2-1 ACC) with six minutes left in the opening half, and the orange gradually worked their way back into the game. Freshman attacker Nicole levy scored another for the orange before the half. 
Though junior midfielder Casey pearsall, who would score five total goals on the day, got one goal back for the Irish early in the second, Syracuse redshirt senior attacker gabby Jaquith converted from a free position shot to put Notre Dame behind for the first time in the game. 
The Irish took the lead back twice more in the game, but senior attacker Kayla Treanor gave the orange a two-goal lead for the first time with 6:21 left in the contest. Notre Dame got one goal back when junior attacker Cortney Fortunato scored with 4:14 left, but, de­spite some late possessions, they couldn’t tie the game. 
Irish head coach Christine halfpenny said her team played well, but a few crucial errors made the difference. 
“overall we’re really happy with where we are,” halfpenny said. “we want to clean up our transition game a bit. I feel like we had some unforced errors we would like back that did lead to lost possessions, and a gained one for Syracuse with potentially a goal out of it. But we can work on that, and con­tinue to build on our it. But we 
see w lAX PaGE 15 




