The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 51, issue 118 | thursday, april 7, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
student performance promotes discussion 
Loyal Daughters and Sons show encourages conversations on gender, relationships and identity 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
The 10th annual loyal daughters and sons (lds) show, a student performance explor­ing sexuality, gender relations and relationships, previewed at saint mary’s in little Theatre last night. The show will open on notre dame’s campus Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the carey auditorium in hesburgh library. 
The production, which con­sists of monologues adapted from anonymous interviews and written submissions from students about their past experi­ences, is intended to start a dia­logue about sexuality and sexual violence on campus, said notre dame alumna emily weisbecker Farley ‘07, the show’s creator, in a statement included in the show’s program. 
“i wanted to challenge the au­dience and make them think, and i wanted the material to be undeniably real and honest and relevant,” she said. “drawing from the campus community and including as wide a range of experiences as possible was a way to try to give each audience member something to connect with, which might in turn leave them more receptive to hearing and digesting the rest.” 
senior skyler hughes, co-executive producer of the show, 
see show paGE 5 



consecrated virgin speaks on vocation at smc 

By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
Jessica hayes, who is the first consecrated virgin in the diocese of Fort wayne-south bend in the last 25 years, spoke about her journey discerning her vocation during the latest installment of Theology on Fire at saint mary’s on wednesday. 
hayes said during her time in catholic grade and high school, she only met two religious sisters. 
“i remember them being there,” she said, “but it didn’t teach me much about what reli­gious life was like because they were on their own and they didn’t really talk about it. There was also nothing that strik­ing wabout what they were 
see vocaTion paGE 4 



Vatican official explores Catholic higher education 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
as part of the 11th year of the Keeley vatican lecture series hosted by the nanovic institute for european studies, Fr. Friedrich bechina spoke wednesday night about the role of catholicism in higher education. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins introduced bechina, who was named the underswecretary of the congregation for catholic education in 2013 by pope emeritus benedict Xvi and has represented the holy see internationally in areas of higher education. 
bechina began his lecture by saying that problems and academic credits should not be the sole focus of an aca­demic institution. 
“one of the most significant changes in higher education today is a shift towards what we call student-centered learning,” bechina said. “we should not emphasize too much on higher education on the input … but that we should more look on the pro­cesses of learning.” 
bechina spoke about his 15 years of service to the holy see, which he described as a sovereign entity and a subject of international law that can maintain diplomatic rela­tions. he said it was impor­tant to recognize the holy see as an international entity. 
“The church is both uni­versal and local at the same time,” bechina said. “we represent 1,500 catholic uni­versities worldwide with, roughly speaking, 6 million students. This is kind of an educational empire that we have. we should be proud of what’s going on.” 
bechina said the type of education the students were receiving was what mattered, not just numbers. 
“i think the important thing is that these 6 million students are educated dif­ferently,” bechina said. “we believe that because of our catholic identity we have more to offer.” 
bechina said the church and the university are simi­lar because of how they each retain their identity with the “pulse of time.” 
“people say the two oldest institutions in the world are the church and the universi­ty,” bechina said. “why have they been able to survive for thousands of years? because they were able to change when it was time to change, without losing their identity. 
“we are not bound to politi­cal programs … and the uni­versity has its own rules and is bound to truth and not to the opinion of the day.” 
he said globalization was yet another factor that unit­ed the church with higher education. 
“The church is the same one, universal church in dif­ferent languages and differ­ent cultures,” bechina said. “and there is the same with higher education. higher education is becoming more and more globalized.” 
he talked about current academic issues such as the “brain drain,” which he de­scribed as the occurrence of talented individuals leaving a country to study and work abroad because of limited re­sources in their home coun­try. bechina went on to say 
see bechina paGE 5 


news paGE 3 viewpoinT paGE 7 scene paGE 8 FooTball paGE 16 soFTball paGE 16 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Have you ever had a cake with your face on it, or did you ever want one? 

Courtney Kelly 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“no, and why not!” 

Jamon Ford 
junior dillon hall 
“no.” 

Graham Johnson 
junior sorin college 
“no.” 



Quinlan McWilliams 
junior 
Keough hall 

“sure. i’ve had it before, though.” 

Kara Snyder 

sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“yes.” 


Audrey Fetsko 
sophomore 

pasquerilla east hall 
“no, and i don’t think so.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
haleigh ehmsen marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
martha reilly maureen schweninger Kathryn marshall 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
olivia mikkelsen adam ramos 
Photo Viewpoint 

Easter 1916: The Irish Bengali New Year “Agency, Persons, National Robotics “God Lives in the City” 
caitlyn Jordan scott olehnik 

Rebellion Celebration and Kant” Week Event Hesburgh Center for Hesburgh Library Coleman-Morse Center McKenna Hall Compton Family Ice International Studies 
5:30p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. 8 a.m. Arena 5 pm. - 6:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Guided tour of Special Experience culture Philosophers discuss 12 p.m. - 4 p.m. Lecture on Pope 
The observer regards itself as Collections exhibit. and traditional dinner. Kant’s works. Play with robots. Francis’ theology. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Ingrid Bergman: In ND Women’s Tennis Eucharistic Adoration Men’s Lacrosse vs. Zumbathon 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Her Own Words” vs. Clemson Basilica of the Sacred Duke Rockne Memorial 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Performing Eck Tennis Pavillion Heart Arlotta Stadium Gymnasium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Arts Center 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 11 p.m. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 24-hour Eucharist The Irish take on the Workout event open to 
we can correct our error. 

Documentary film. Tigers. celebration. Blue Devils. the community. 


studENt sENatE 

robinson, blais address new group members 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
This past wednesday’s senate meeting marked the first senate meeting of the robinson-blais administration. 
Junior student body president corey robinson and sophomore vice president becca blais were sworn into office, as they stat­ed their commitments to up­holding the constitution of the undergraduate student body. Following their oaths, the new senators of each dorm were also sworn into office. 
This administration’s senate will follow a new model, which places some senators into four different committees as a part of each meeting. These commit­tees are health and wellness, sustainability, community engagement and campus affairs. senators also have been assigned to different executive cabinet departments. 


“we are trying to make it more effective and efficient by sepa­rating [senate] into smaller com­mittees and by approaching this with a interdisciplinary and mul­tidisciplinary approach to these problems. we are excited to see what you all come up with and what you guys want to change,” robinson said to the senators. 
The new senators for the 2016­2017 academic year approved the following individuals in their incoming student government positions including chief of staff, junior michael markel and par­liamentarian, freshman monica montgomery. 
sophomore alexandra eisele will take over as secretary. executive controller will be sophomore daniel swanson, and junior erica Tabor will serve as director of communication. 
andrew recker was named athletics representative, while junior maKenna siebenaler was approved as the campus minis­try representative. 
senior rachel wallace will serve as the student union representative to diversity council. The senate also ap­proved freshmen david hopkinson and nabila mourad as the First undergraduate experience in leadership (Fuel) directors. 
director of the department of academic affairs will be junior eva niklinska and the director of the department of campus tech­nology will be freshman bryce badura. 
Juniors caitlyn hodges and Kimberly sullivan will take over as director of the department of community relations and direc­tor of the department of constit­uent services, respectively. 
sophomore Xun chris wang will be the director of the department of gender issues for the new administration, and freshmen Julia dunbar and stephanie mastorakos will serve as the director of the department of health and wellness, and di­rector of the department of inter­nal affairs, respectively. 
The new senators also ap­proved freshman prathm Juneja as the new director of the depart­ment of national engagement and outreach. 
Freshmen Joseph sierotko will take over as director of the department of residence life and director of the department of social concerns is freshman andrea Tong. 
director of the department of university affairs is junior andrew helmin and junior grace watkins was named the university policy liaison. 
“The purpose of the commit­tees is to really empower those senators to have a voice,” blais said. “a lot of people are shy or nervous about raising their hand and sharing their opinion, but when you break people down into smaller groups and they get to share their perspective of their committee, their department, their dorms, their clubs, the peo­ple they represent ... then it really gives them a chance to be vocal.” 
“what i am hoping for ... the senate is, first of all, greater col­laboration between senate, sub, and executive cabinet,” blais said. “The second thing i would hope for is ... that they utilize the time to work in those small groups and work in the big group to form resolutions about the is­sues that they really care about, to really get to discuss the issues that affect our university every day.” 
Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 





The observer | thursday, april 7, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Vocation 
conTinued From page 1 
doing or who they were.” 
she said what drew her away from the religious life of sisters was the fact that the sisters she met were from her grandparents’ generation. 
“To me, it looked like the religious life was something that people didn’t really do anymore,” she said. “That’s not a bad thing. it’s just not something that young wom­en chose.” 
hayes visited religious communities to see if that path was for her, but she did so half-heartedly — in the same manner that she dated, she said. 
“i could see marriage and religious life as good,” she said. “in the deepest part of my life, i knew neither one of those were for me.” 
she believed her vocation was to marry and have chil­dren since she was young, 
“I could see marriage and religious life as good. In the deepest part of me, I knew neither one of those were for me.” 
Jessica Hayes 
consecrated virgin 
she said. as her life went on, she met more women in re­ligious orders and started to see the religious life as a pos­sible path for her, though it was not something she truly wanted, hayes said. 
“i knew it was a good thing,” she said. “it was a beautiful vocation and i was seeing women live it joyfully, but at the same time, i knew that wasn’t where my heart was. 
“For me, for all of this time, there was either life in a reli­gious community or married life. so i thought, ‘if i’m not called to [the religious life,] then i must be called to mar­riage and i just haven’t found the person yet.’ That was my attitude for some time.” 
according to hayes, the main role for a consecrated virgin is to commit her life to prayer above all else. hayes is able to hold any occupation, and throughout history, con­secrated virgins have been doctors, teachers, accoun­tants and other odd jobs, but the job the women choose cannot take precedence over the life of prayer, she said. she also has to be of service to the parish and her com­munity, hayes said. 
hayes, who is a teacher of theology at bishop dwenger high school, did not want to live in a religious community because she wanted to con­tinue being a spiritual moth­er to her students, she said. 
“i really enjoyed my stu­dents,” she said. “all of us are called to mentor some peo­ple. my students were allow­ing me to guide them in that life. They had good questions about prayer, and i really en­joyed being a mentor to them in that way.” 
according to hayes, she was guided to her consecration by studying the Theology of the body during her later life. 
“That’s when i started real­izing how much i love learn­ing about the faith,” she said. “i think learning the truths about the theology of the body and how stamped it is into our very being teaches us much about how we are called to love and be loved.” 
hayes found a spiritual di­rector to help her navigate through the difficulties in life regarding her occupa­tion, she said, but he rec­ognized his guidance was needed to help hayes figure out her vocation, instead. 
“he really challenged me to think more deeply about how i was going to give my­self,” she said. “i had some­one posing challenging questions and then holding me accountable for those an­swers. i couldn’t just think about them and then not get anywhere — he wanted an answer.” 
according to hayes, her decision to become a conse­crated virgin came through the process of trying to figure out what she truly loved. she realized she loved the faith, teaching teenagers about the faith and being around her parish community. 
“There were so many things about my life that i al­ready liked, and i think this priest could see that in a way that i couldn’t, because, to me, there was still this one unanswered question that i didn’t want to talk about,” she said. “he could see there were places of joy for me and wanted to help me to draw those out.” 
she had to think critically about whether her life plans were what she wanted or what others wanted for her, she said. 
“There [was] so much pres­sure, which i didn’t notice up to that point, to marry and have kids,” hayes said. “They’re all really good things to want, but i could fi­nally explain that these were not the things i wanted. … i needed to have the courage to take the next step forward.” 
This decision helped her fill in the gaps she had been trying to fill throughout her life, hayes said. 
“For a really long time, i had tried to get myself to ac­cept that i was going to be single,” she said. “i moved from accepting it and put­ting up with it … to a whole­hearted desire that this is all i really wanted in my life is to be united with christ in a spousal way, where i give myself completely and pub­licly over to him, but also in the world, so that i can con­tinue living in the way that has brought me so much joy, but now with that extra step … because i choose to.” 
hayes said she wants to be an example for women to demonstrate there is another way to fulfill their vocation. 
“we know what marriage is, and we know what the religious life is, even if we haven’t experienced it by liv­ing around religious commu­nities,” she said. “but there is this other way, this union with christ, but where we live in the world. 
“i think [with] the wit­ness of women living in the world as consecrated virgins, there’s this constant remind­er that living a chaste life­style is one that brings great joy and it looks really weird because no one thinks about living that way by choice — it’s more by consequence. but 
“In any discernment, what is really [important] more than anything is knowing yourself.” 
Jessica Hayes 
consecrated virgin 
i think that kind of a witness is really powerful, because it makes a woman available to those around her in a way that she can’t be if she’s liv­ing in a religious community, where she has those respon­sibilities to community life or to the life of a family.” 
according to hayes, peo­ple have thanked her for her courage and for giving her life away, though she believes it is the easiest and most nat­ural part of her life. 
“in any discernment, what is really [important] more than anything is know­ing yourself,” she said. “whenever it is, we find what god is calling us to — there’s really no sense of loss. it’s like he’s offering you the opportunity to be yourself in the greatest way possible, in the greatest joy possible.” 
hayes said she feels she truly found her vocation in becoming a consecrated virgin. 
“in my discernment, i feel what happened is it opened up my whole heart,” she said. “now, i live with my whole heart and it’s a much better live than not really knowing ourselves.” 
according to hayes, look­ing into the life of mary and mary’s acceptance and will­ingness to be the mother of god helped her realize this was what she truly wanted and what god wanted for her. 
“i feel like for me, a com­mon thing with mary’s an­nunciation was that i had that one moment of absolute clarity that this was what the lord was asking of me and this was what i most desired,” she said. “i don’t know that i’ll ever have that for the rest of my life, but i don’t know that mary did either. but she was absolutely certain that this was what the lord want­ed. … That was true with me, too.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 




show 
conTinued From page 1 
said the show’s theme this year, “what’s next?” is intended to recognize the progress still needed. 
“we were thinking, okay, so lds has been around for 10 years now [and] it started a con­versation on a lot of issues, but now that there’s a conversation going, what’s next?” he said. “what’s next on dealing with sexual assault as a community, but also, what’s next on lgbT issues? what’s next for gender relations?” 
The show highlights the com­munity’s need to move forward with this conversation, sopho­more co-writer dominic acri said in an email. 
“writing [and] editing the sto­ries for stage helped me realize that no matter how much we spread awareness about these topics, we can only see change if we are willing to ask, ‘what’s next?’” he said. “now that we are comfortable sharing our stories and hearing the stories of others, it is time for us to move forward and continue to conversation.” 
senior anthony murphy, the show’s director, said he credits the students willing to share their stories with the communi­ty for the production’s success. 
“what i’ve learned in the past week, even, is just how impor­tant the stories are,” he said. “it’s not the acting, it’s not my direc­tion — the stories are what hold this performance up.” 
This year’s show was able to feature a balance of mono­logues about different subjects due to the increased number of student submissions, hughes said. 
“This year, we got more sub­mission than we have in the 

paid adverTisemenT 

past couple years,” he said. “we were lucky that it cov­ered a broad range of issues and we were able to show that onstage.” 
The performance is framed as a tour of notre dame’s campus for prospective stu­dents, with each location mentioned featuring two or three monologues relevant to that specific place. This aimed to emphasize the fact that these stories all come from members of the notre dame community, murphy said. 
“The objective was kind of to make these topics salient, based on location,” murphy said. “These things do hap­pen on campus and that our friends, our classmates, our colleagues, are walking around with this baggage and maybe we’re not all alone. we’re not all so different.” 
while lds is a helpful step in addressing issues sur­rounding gender and sexu­ality at notre dame, the community needs to take specific action, hughes said. 
“i think that loyal daughters and sons can be a really good part of how we move forward on these issues as a community, but it does take action outside,” he said. “part of what somebody can do is come and hear these stories, and then that helps them learn more and know more and know what needs to be addressed. but there also needs to be concrete action taken … There are actionable steps and this show, i think, is a starting point in a conversa­tion, but it’s definitely not an end in itself.” 
“what’s next?” runs until saturday and will feature a panel discussion at 3:30 p.m. after the saturday matinee performance. 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 
Bechina 
conTinued From page 1 
the holy see’s role is to navigate these issues and make sure the church remains involved. 
“The idea up to the year of 2000 was we have to defend our catholic identity. That 
“We will not survive if we just defend our faith, but the faith will survive if we are missionaries and convince people who are able to take out the faith and engage in dialogue.” 
Friedrich Bechina 
undersecretary for the Vatican 
Congregation for Catholic 
education 
came with an image of a big wall around us that protects us from all negative influence outside of us,” bechina said. “we are discovering that we are defending something that we lose. That the identity is vanishing within the strong walls built around it. 
“we will not survive if we just defend our faith, but the faith will survive if we are mission­aries and convince people who are able to take out the faith and engage in dialogue.” 
he spoke about how the church once viewed academic freedom as a threat to its in­stitution, but says times have changed. 
“universities and catholic higher education are protected on academic freedom and good argumentation,” bechina said. “we have to understand what academic freedom is. nobody can be obliged to believe something. Faith is an act for the free person. and so is the same for truth.” 
bechina said it was impos­sible to fully possess the truth, but countered that by saying that this impossibility does not mean society as a whole should give up on seeking it. he said humility as a virtue is indispensable, because pride can obstruct one’s vision of the truth. 
“in truth a university has always been … called to be a house where one seeks the truth,” he said. 
he used pope Francis as an example of a world learner by talking about how Francis’ de­gree was in chemistry, which meant he had hands-on expe­rience learning about “earthly reality.” he said Francis is an example of someone who used education to move forward. 
“we should always have the courage in our universi­ties to go forward anchored in our values, but at the same time always moving forward,” bechina said. “engage, mingle, be missionaries again.” 
he said one of the biggest problems of today is a lack of hope and said catholic univer­sities should always make sure they are institutions that foster hope in their students. 
“catholic universities are the places that should provide more. it is the place where we open beyond these earthly re­alities,” bechina said. “no one would do research without the hope to find something. so these attitudes are in a certain sense a preparation of hope. but it’s not enough. 
“we should teach subjects that [go] beyond a good career, but prepare people to be peo­ple who make good decisions, who will be able to change the world for the better because they have encountered hope.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 



iNsidE ColumN 

Losing a lost art 

Megan Valley 
news writer 

my best friend from high school, alex, recently graduated from boot camp for the navy. obviously, i’m super proud of her and all, but the best part of her graduating was she got her phone back. 
For two months, i wrote alex letters; it was the only way we could communicate. every couple of days, i would type up and send her a several page document with updates to my life, grammy winner lists, a description of beyonce’s super bowl performance and up­dates regarding Kanye west’s Twitter rants and subsequent drama. 
every Thursday — she was only allowed to send mail out from great lakes, illinois on sundays — i would receive what were, es­sentially, journal entries about what she was up to each day since the last time she wrote me. everything would be handwritten in all caps, because that’s how she was told to practice writing. 
even when we were living in the same state and attending the same high school and liv­ing only a few miles apart, alex and i were in constant contact: texting. i’m even in a very animated group chat with her and her brother. ever since alex and i both had cell phones, i don’t think we’ve ever gone more than a couple of hours without some sort of communication. 
occasionally, i’ll see an article about the “lost art” of letter writing — usually accom­panied with statements of how “impersonal” texting is — and i wonder if those people longing for the forms of communication of old have ever been in a situation where that was the only way they could communicate with someone. alex was only out of my tex­ting inbox for eight weeks and we weren’t completely out of contact, but only getting one letter’s worth a week of conversation was still highly irritating, at a minimum. 
here’s a short and incomplete list of things we missed out on for eight weeks: horribly unflattering snapchat selfies, links to ar­ticles and videos we thought the other would like, live-texting netflix binges, instanta­neous advice, comfort during a rough night, sharing small town gossip from home. 
perhaps i sound whiny. but even if i’m a bit melodramatic, look at things from the per­spective of alex. you’re leaving home for the first time. you’re surrounded by people you don’t know and probably won’t bother to get to know well because, in eight weeks, you’ll all be separated anyway. you have no sense of privacy: community bunks, community showers. you’re exhausted and frustrated and every so often, you get to stand perfectly still while someone screams at you. you get a few minutes of break here and there throughout the day, so you read letters from your friends and family. For longer breaks, you write your responses until your hand cramps. you think about how these letters won’t even be read until the following week. you’re lonely and miss all your loved ones. 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
corporations, campaigns, and the constitution 
Eddie Damstra 
dinner Table Talks 
if you have listened to bernie sanders speak for more than five minutes, the chances are high that you heard him mention the need for campaign fi­nance reform. and while some positions sanders holds may be considered distinctly unique from most other candidates, his emphasis on reform­ing campaign finance laws cannot be classified as such. in fact, many people from both parties have advocated for weakening the financial influence wealthy individuals, corporations and unions may have on political campaigns. however, many of the reservations such people have with the current campaign finance system stem from misunder­standings of a major supreme court case and fun­damental rights to free speech and expression. 
essentially all those who vocally emphasize the need to radically alter current campaign finance laws are staunch opponents to the 2010 supreme court case: citizens united v. Fec. This is the court case that practically birthed the era of super political action committees (pacs). This case is the rallying cry for many advocates of increasing the policing power of the government when it comes to campaign finance. immediately following this court case, many people were terrified and told of the immense “danger” that such a ruling would cause. perhaps most notably, television personal­ity Keith olbermann said, “This is a supreme court sanctioned murder of what little actual democracy is left in this democracy … it is the dark ages; it is our dred scott.” while one can recognize this as an obvious utilization of hyperbole and demagogu­ery, in the days following the decision, this was common rhetoric employed by many media outlets. in fact, there was, and still is, a general sentiment of fear and anger invoked by the supreme court’s decision in citizens united v. Fec. however, many people’s fear and anger is generated by either a misunderstanding of the stipulations of the court decision or — and possibly in addition to — a mis­understanding of the extent of freedom of speech and the importance such a principle possesses. 
citizens united v. Fec was a case that originated when the conservative lobbying group citizens united was disallowed from airing and advertis­ing a film critical of 2008 presidential candidate hillary clinton. citizens united was prohibited from airing such a film because it violated the bipartisan campaign reform act, also known as the mccain-Feingold act. under the bipartisan campaign reform act, communications via broad­cast, cable or satellite that mentioned a candidate 60 days before a general election or 30 days before a primary election were outlawed. citizen’s united found such a proscription as a limit to its freedom of speech and consequently filed a complaint. The case eventually reached the supreme court, which sided with citizens united. The majority opinion, authored by Justice anthony Kennedy, noted, “if the First amendment has any force, it prohibits congress from fining or jailing citizens, or associa­tions of citizens, for simply engaging in political speech.” corporations are, according to the court, associations of individuals and are, thus, granted the same First amendment rights as any single individual would be granted. The court stated that since money is vital in circulating speech, restrict­ing the amount of money an association of indi­viduals can spend is a direct violation of the First amendment. 
when identifying what citizens united v. Fec es­tablishes, it is also important to note what the case does not establish. The court case did not suddenly allow corporations and unions to give directly to political parties or campaigns — there is still a ban on such an action in races for federal office. rather, citizens united v. Fec allows corporations and unions to contribute money to independent expen­diture committees, now classified as super pacs. These pacs have no limits on independent political spending, but may not coordinate with or directly contribute to political campaigns. 
additionally, citizens united v. Fec does not permit corporations to spend without public dis­closure. according to the majority opinion, “The First amendment protects political speech; and disclosure permits citizens and shareholders to react to the speech of corporate entities in a proper way. This transparency enables the electorate to make informed decisions and give proper weight to different speakers and messages.” The supreme court, in its decision, established that organiza­tions, comprised of individuals, have a right to en­gage in political speech and other individuals have the right to listen to what the organizations have to say. 
many people who want citizens united v. Fec to be overturned claim to champion freedom of speech. The irony of this is found in the restriction of free speech that such a reversal would create. dictating who can speak about political matters and to what extent fundamentally violates the First amendment. it is not only the rights of the corpo­rations or unions that are at stake when debating this matter, but also the rights of the voters as a whole. it is the right of the people to be able to hear information and ideas. The free and flourishing competition of political speech is beneficial for everyone, including the listeners. The government should not have the right to limit such competition and subsequently tarnish the democratic process. 
i do not doubt that those who desire to reform campaign finance laws have good intentions. in fact, many concerns they have with the current system are valid. while the extent to which corpo­rations can control politicians is often exaggerated, it is undeniably true that current laws enable orga­nizations to purchase influence over government officials. This is certainly a problem, as politicians should represent the interests of their entire con­stituency, not solely those of a certain union or corporation. however, the solution to the problem is not to strip the constitutional rights of certain groups, but to enhance transparency and voter awareness. we, the people, must demand that poli­ticians and corporations be more transparent with where money is coming from and where it is going. This information is already publicly available, but it should be highlighted more significantly. voters must utilize such information to make informed decisions on who to support. it is easy to write off the american political system as corrupt and controlled by corporations, but the reality is that the true power in american democracy lies in the hands of the individual voter. 
allowing organizations and individuals to con­tribute in an unrestricted manner to super pacs does not inhibit freedom but rather promotes it. There is no such thing as too much political speech. we must embrace the ability of corpora­tions and unions to speak politically and listen to what they have to say. The government does not get to decide who are legitimate political speakers. we are all granted the right to engage in politi­cal discussion — that is the essence of american democracy. 
Eddie Damstra is a freshman from Orland Park, Illinois. He is majoring in political science and is  considering attending law school after his time as an undergraduate at Notre Dame. He can be reached at edamstra@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


How to tell someone you love them 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 

starting in 2012, most of the united states adopted the common core state standards. ccss, or the common core, as it’s commonly (pun totally intend­ed) called is a set of educational standards, or learn­ing targets, that aim to ensure all students have the same expectations and opportunities. They’re rather controversial and misunderstood, and i’m not going to put myself in the middle of that debate right now. because i’m an optimist, i’m going to focus on the good parts of the ccss. 
one of the differences between ccss and previ­ous education standards is the focus on literacy and english language arts, including speaking and lis­tening. my heart soared when i first read that ccss places emphasis on speaking and listening, because i have always been a strong proponent of encourag­ing oral and aural skills in the classroom. plus, now i can tell future job interviewers that both my les­son plans and educational philosophy are common core-aligned. 
i love the inclusion of speaking and listening skills because speaking and listening are essential parts of communication that are often left out of classrooms. students spend a lot of their days listening to teach­ers, reading books, worksheets or other media, and writing down what teachers say, with occasional chances to write what they think as well. in some classrooms, a student is more likely to speak out of turn and be reprimanded than to have a chance to talk about their own thoughts. 
students coming from classrooms that emphasize speaking and listening skills will — hopefully — be more prepared for colleges, careers, and the world. a student who has learned how to speak clearly and eloquently will be much more effective at selling their team’s pitch in a meeting than someone who stares at the floor and doesn’t give evidence. similarly, i would feel much safer at night knowing that members of our military can listen attentively to verbal instructions and follow through accordingly, rather than listening passively or immediately planning what they’ll say next. 
but outside of the world of ccss and the goals of college and career readiness, i like the emphasis on speaking and listening for my students’ personal lives. Quite simply, i want my future students to be good, respectable, happy people outside of their working lives too, and i think this section of ccss can help ensure that. let’s do an example of how good speaking skills, as defined by ccss, can help some­one in their personal life, shall we? 
according to the ccss, 8th grade students will be able to, “present claims and findings, emphasizing salient points in a focused, coherent, manner with relevant evidence, sound valid reasoning, and well-chosen details; use appropriate eye contact, adequate volume, and clear pronunciation.” 
let’s say that we want to tell someone that you love them. For this example, i’ll use my good friend mary. now, i could walk up to mary, stare at my shoes, and mumble, “ilovoo.” if she was able to hear what i said, despite my unclear pronunciation and downward trajectory of my sound waves, she might appreciate it. however, she would appreciate it a lot more if i looked at her, smiled and made sure that exactly what i said was clear, so that we both are absolutely sure that i 
my catholic vote 
for god’s creation.” Though bernie’s positions on the Karen Gilmore economy, healthcare, the environment and interna­
guest columnist 

tional policy were not formed on the basis of catholic 
on monday i attended wendy davis’ talk spon­sored by the notre dame college democrats. she contributed her views as well as her personal experi­ences to the political dialogue on campus, discussing important and contentious issues such as minimum wage, healthcare and the role of gender discrimina­tion in those arenas. several weeks ago, i voted in the ohio primary election. i come from a very traditional catholic family in which my parents had always made it clear that they supported republican can­didates, and they cited pro-life beliefs as their pri­mary reason for doing so. Though i too treasure my catholic faith and oppose abortion, i voted for bernie sanders, because i believe that he is the candidate with the most respect for the dignity of human life, despite his pro-choice platform. davis’ comments on the ideology that underlies the democratic party further convinced me that i made the right choice. 
There are no perfect candidates, and i disagree with senator sanders on more than just his position on abortion. however, more than any of the other candidates, i find his priorities and agenda are more consistent with my faith and hopes for our country, especially when one considers the seven Themes of catholic social Teaching. These themes are far from being realized in our society today. life and dignity of the human person are compromised by more than just abortion. life and dignity are also currently sub­jugated by practices like capital punishment and a lack of commitment to solving conflicts abroad using peaceful means. The theme of “option for the poor and vulnerable” is ignored every time we do not put the needs of the disadvantaged above the privileged. The current minimum wage is not a living wage, which is an affront to the “dignity of work and the rights of workers.” The widespread disregard for en­vironmental initiatives stands in opposition to “care social Teaching, they seem to me to put the poor, the planet and peace ahead of the interests of businesses and billionaires, which is exactly what the catholic church calls us to demand from our government. 
i believe that life begins at conception, and, thus, the right to life for an unborn child outweighs any rights of a mother aside from her own right to life. wendy davis provided examples of situations where many believe abortion is an appropriate and neces­sary course of action, which all involved medical con­ditions that already served as a preexisting threat to a fetus’ life. in these cases, i believe there should be an active debate surrounding whether abortion is moral. The abortions that i oppose entirely are those chosen based on non-medical reasons. 
however, i hold a deep empathy for all women who choose to have abortions and a deep frustration with the circumstances that lead to that choice. abortion is a result of desperation. Fixing the issues that cause this desperation is the only lasting solution to this problem. a sanders presidency could provide for key changes in our society that would dramatically re­duce the perceived need for abortions. This need was born out of a lack of support for mothers and respect for women, especially those who have to deal with poverty, racial discrimination, gender inequality and gendered violence, and the intersections between these struggles. bernie has been fighting to find solu­tions to these problems for decades. 
abortions will continue to occur as long as women are deprived of better options, even if their right to them is no longer protected by our legal system. i want to live in a world where an unplanned preg­nancy does not completely derail a woman’s career, end her education or sentence her to a lifetime of struggling to clothe, feed and shelter her child when she was already struggling to do the same for herself. i want to live in a world where children are blessings, love her. 
but let’s say that i want to make mary’s day by let­ting her know that i really, really love her. according to the ccss, i should present my claims clearly and using good evidence. instead of just saying, “i love you,” to really make her day, i should tell her why i love her. i should say things like: 
“mary, i love you because we have the same taste in music and love to listen to 70s rock and 80s punk vinyl together.” 
“mary, i love you because you’re a talented art­ist whose works make other people happy and comforted.” 
“mary, i love you because, despite your incredible talent in art, you still take the time to do little projects with me, like designing my French tutoring posters or painting christmas presents for my friends and family.” 
“mary, i love you because when we order chinese food and i ask, ‘is it okay if i get eggrolls?,’ you say, ‘it’s not okay if you don’t get eggrolls.’” 
“mary, i love you because when i sing, ‘dark-ness,’ you immediately respond with, ‘no par-ents.’” 
“mary, i love you because when it started snowing the other day, you texted me and asked me if i had an electric blanket to go put on the flower beds to make sure that the new spring flowers didn’t freeze and die.” 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. All she wants is for her cats to be proud of her someday. She can be reached at cphela01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
not burdens. Though mothers who choose life are heroes, i want to live in a world where the decision to “keep the baby” is expected and supported, not heroic. The way forward is to give women more op­tions, not take them away. universal healthcare, gen­der equality and an overhaul of the adoption system would all be necessary to guarantee life and dignity to unborn children. senator sanders’ bold challenges to our unequal system, which often puts mothers at a severe disadvantage, makes him the most dedicated fighter for human dignity in the presidential race. 
we are blessed to live in a democracy. however, this blessing comes at a cost — at times, we must come to terms with the fact that our beliefs are not always popular. and though i do not believe that women have a natural right to abortion, the supreme court has granted us a legal right to them. i respect davis’ and senator sanders’ dedication to advocating for all women’s rights, including this one. as long as this right exists, efforts to undermine it through executive channels are threats to our democratic system and undermine the role the courts play in protecting all of our rights. 
until we provide mothers with the support they need, they will continue to seek out abortions. in my opinion, anti-abortion legislation is not sufficient to protect the dignity of life. The republican candidates 
— who all identify as pro-life — lack understanding of issues that lead women to choose abortion and are not dedicated to solving them. i voted for bernie in the primary because bernie’s dedication to equal­ity and vision for the future of america are the most consistent with my own views. i don’t think my deci­sion opposes my catholic faith, and i pray that i will have the opportunity to cast a vote for him again in november. 
Karen is a senior majoring in sociology. She can be reached at kgilmor2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

a few years ago, critics scrutinized weezer as just another washed-out, cre­atively-dead band, lingering on the fumes of a career that burnt out a few decades ago. Then, everything changed with 2014’s “everything will be alright in the end,” frontman rivers cuomo’s equiva­lent of turning around a class with an all­nighter paper after an entire semester of messing around. like most all-nighters, though, it wasn’t perfect, lacking the co­hesiveness and just plain fun that had en­capsulated weezer’s best works. 
cue april 1’s eponymous “weezer (The white album).” stripped of the anxieties and desperation that came with creating a “redemption” record after a decade or so of critical misfires, weezer has finally returned to doing what they do best: hav­ing a great time. 
i’m going to leave the vague comments about the color white as a symbol of re­birth or the glaringly obvious allusions to the beatles for the pretentious kid in the front row of your introductory writ­ing classes. because honestly, this record has much more in common with brian 
By BRIAN BOYLEN 
scene writer 

i watched the original “cloverfield” on a plane, thousands of feet in the air. it was an interesting experience, to say the least. The shaky camera style of cinematography that “cloverfield” employed is known to cause the­atergoers motion sickness, and even worse for those viewing the film in a turbulent plane. yet, despite all the stomach pain, i thoroughly enjoyed “cloverfield” and was left eager for more by the end of the film. 
Thankfully, “10 cloverfield lane” answered my desire for more, albeit in an unexpected way. instead of be­ing a direct sequel to the original, “10 cloverfield lane” is considered a spiritual successor. The movie es­chews many aspects of “cloverfield” that were key to making the movie what it was. instead of a shaky cam, “10 cloverfield lane” uses a more tra­ditional style of filming; instead of wilson than paul mccartney. on “The white album,” cuomo and the gang are done with classes for the summer, head­ing to the beach and jamming to the beach boys’ “pet sounds.” 
From the very first track, psychedelic rock vibrations are everywhere. The in­troduction to “california Kids” sounds like it could have come straight out of the beach boys’ recording studio with its cawing seagulls, airy guitar riffs and crashing waves — all leading up to the swirling “pet sounds”-esque harmonies of the chorus in less than a minute. This californication pervades throughout the whole album, forming the thematic unity lacking in “everything will be alright in the end.” 
The music of “The white album” never feels gimmicky or overdone, however, as the noise extends beyond this surf rock influence, delving into the grungy, ‘90s power pop sound that defined weezer’s two biggest albums, the also eponymous “weezer (The blue album)” and the sad­der, more introspective “pinkerton.” This fusion of california fun and classic weezer goodness is no more apparent than on the album’s second track, “wind in our sail.” This song jumps between 
taking place in a massive metropolis as in the original, it limits its focus to a cramped, underground bunker for the brunt of the film. 
The film begins with a young wom­an named michelle (mary elizabeth winstead) waking up after a car crash, chained to a wall in a makeshift hold­ing cell. her apparent captor howard (John goodman), quickly introduc­es himself before explaining how he saved the young woman’s life. The im­posing howard then claims that there was an attack on the united states and the two must remain in the bunker he has built, as the air above was suppos­edly contaminated with an unknown poison. michelle, skeptical of this pro­nouncement, as any rational person would be in her situation, begins to calculate an escape plan. yet, as the movie progresses, more and more con­tradictory details emerge, obscuring the reality for both michelle and the viewer alike. 
The final character introduced in the poppy piano melodies and euphoric, high rising, guitar-driven choruses on a dime. combine that with cuomo’s nerdy lyr­ics that only he could pull off (“breathe in the salt / slicing waves at 40 knots / cumulonimbus in the sky / This is what we’ve waited for”), and we’ve got our­selves a great weezer track. 
it’s not necessarily a return to form, though, as weezer has always had the geeky motifs and rocking power chord structure; it’s just been buried in the sand underneath lil wayne collaborations and hurley-from-“lost” concept albums. Thankfully, we’re well past that part of the band’s history now, as weezer is fi­nally acting their age. 
speaking of acting their age, cuomo demands that of potential mates in the quirky “l.a. girlz,” throwing that in among references to lewis carroll’s “Jaberwocky” and the 2014 film “whiplash.” 
Then there’s “(girl we got a) good Thing,” which takes all of the whacky lyricism, shoves it into a tambourine-and-electric-guitar infused melody and comes out rocking as weezer’s best sum­mer jam since “island in the sun.” 
Just about every track on this record is 
film is emmett (John gallagher, Jr.), another apparent survivor. emmett’s story differs from michelle in that he claims to have fled to the shelter when he witnessed the attack. emmett plays a smaller role than either howard or michelle, but he is absolutely vital to the films development. Throughout the film, emmett acts as a link between the two other characters. he both as­suages michelle’s fears about howard’s story — as he claims to have seen the attack himself — and acts as a fellow skeptic, welcoming michelle’s ideas that howard isn’t who he claims to be. 
michelle’s decision making through­out the film is a welcome relief from the status quo of modern horror mov­ies, chiefly that her decisions actually make sense. she approaches her situa­tion with an impressive amount of lev­elheadedness, considering how she is trapped underground with two strange men. michelle is willing to accept evi­dence that howard is telling the truth, but she never loses her skepticism awesome. at times, “The white album” sounds like a greatest hits album, except it’s all original material. neither does it overindulge in this great sound, coming it at a remarkably tight 34 minutes. 
in short, “The white album” is a love letter to the weezer of the ’90s, mixed with some shameless beach boys riffs. it’s cuomo embracing his inner dork, full of oddball lyrics, a jamming nostalgia trip with the best of intentions and an all around great time. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                               jkemper2@nd.edu 
‘Weezer (The White Album)’ 
Weezer 
Label: Crush Music 
Tracks: “(Girl We Got A) Good Thing,” “L.A. Girlz,” “California Kids” 
If you like: Foo Fighters, Beck, Pavemen 

— she is always on the lookout for cracks in his story. 
mary elizabeth winstead did a fan­tastic job portraying this realistic character, but the real stand out per­formance was given by John goodman. goodman almost doesn’t even need to speak — his presence alone contrib­utes a palpable tension throughout the film. it is clear that howard is in the position of authority in the shelter, and goodman’s performance makes this clear for every second the camera is on him. 
viewers expecting “cloverfield 2” may be disappointed. “10 cloverfield lane” does not have the nonstop action of its predecessor. instead, the second installment offers more of a slow burn: a building of tensions that culminates in a heart-pounding conclusion that will leave audiences with their jaws dropped, if nothing else. 
Contact Brian Boylen at                 bboylen@nd.edu 


OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 


By JOHN DARR 
scene writer 

“synthia” opens with a whisper: a bubbling little synth that seems to barely break the surface of the speaker as electric guitar chords echo faintly in a far-off canyon. The sounds swell, al­ternating snare and bass drums beat out a backbone, other synths ripple hesitantly at the edge. a woman’s voice hums into being from fractured noise, resurfacing and disappearing like snip­pets from some futuristic, mangled voicemail tape. For the next seven min­utes, gorgeous vocal lines intertwined with spoken word bursts flow over the plush instrumentation. The track dances, collapses, and explodes until it bows out with the beat of a snare drum 
This is “stand and deliver,” The Jezabels’ version of a pop song. because yes, it’s catchy and uplifting and ad­dicting as hell. 
pop music, whether or not it appears on a billboard chart, has a habit of us­ing its immediate appeal as a crutch. 
catchy melodies and memorable cho­ruses allow artists and producers to slack off in areas that will go unno­ticed. song structures are stagnant, forgettable lyrics fill in between vocal hooks and the production, while clean, rarely employs the type of sonic detail that modern technology makes possi­ble. “synthia” spits in the face of these low standards, paying meticulous at­tention to detail and taking risk after risk without losing a stronghold on the immediate pleasures and accessibility that make pop music so wonderful to listen to. 
as if opening their record with a seven-minute, half-spoken-word epic wasn’t enough, The Jezabels follow up “stand and deliver” with a track that utilizes guitar lines that sound like jet planes. “my love is my disease” opens with the hum of a bass that ripples threateningly as if to explode into an earthquake while electric guitars crack and ripple with the whirr of a helicop­ter. a panicky snare rhythm propels the track into a throttling groove, and the guitars shriek against the edges of the soundscape as lead singer haley mary’s vocals float with a barely concealed power through the mix. when the cho­rus hits, it’s an explosion, and mary’s voices swells with impressive power. 
powerful moments like this one are scattered across the record’s run­time. “unnatural,” the most standard pop song on the record, launches into a wordless chorus that’s bigger than any stadium the group could ever fill. “come alive” establishes a relentless groove over the course of three min­utes only to abandon it for a stomping dissonant freakout. “pleasure drive” launches from a sexy ’80s lounge track into a blindingly bright, sky-gazing chorus. 
in addition, “synthia” benefits huge­ly from the striking perspective on femininity presented through its lyr­ics. in standout track “smile,” haley mary seductively half-whispers, “you can whistle at me on the street where i am walking … i’m hardly incorrupt­ible with things i might say yes to,” before flipping the tables: “don’t tell me to smile / when for all you know i just buried my mother. i’ve been bury­ing my mother for an eternity.” on “a message From my mother’s ground,” mary ends the gorgeous ballad with a scathing indictment of the modern male need for power in a relationship, lilting that, “you wanna be stronger, stronger, stronger, but not too strong / lie safely in the middle ground.” The lyrics are consistently fresh, portraying the political through a personal lens while avoiding clichés that wracks art­ists covering similar content. 
in essence, “synthia” is a record that stretches the pop music format to its potential. every risk it takes regarding song structure, lyrical turns and pro­duction style pays off. it is undoubtedly experimental and yet sacrifices no pop­ular appeal in order to be so. “synthia” is one of the first truly great records of 2016; here’s to hoping it’s not one of the last. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 

WEEKEND AT A GLAN CE 
FRIDAY 


What: Loyal Daughters and Sons  present “What’s Next?” When: 7 p.m. Where: Carey Auditorium, Hesburgh Library How Much: $3 for students, $5 for faculty and public 
by bringing to life the anonymous stories from community members about gender issues, gender iden­tity, sexuality and sexual assault at notre dame,  The loyal daughters and sons aim to foster healthy con­versation in their latest show, titled “what’s next?” 
SATURDAY 

What: 10 String Symphony in concert When: Doors open at  7 p.m., music at 8 p.m. Where: LangLab 1302 High St., South Bend How Much: $8 at the door 
nashville-based americana outfit 10 string symphony will be taking their innovative take on tradition fid­dle music to south bend at langlab for what is sure to be an interesting concert experience.  come check out what npr all songs consided has called “the newest and most prom­ising voices in americana” 
SUNDAY 

sure to be cat-tastic, the festival of felines, known as the Tica all breed cat show, will bring a smile to the face of any cat lover. boasting an array of cat product vendors, an as­sortment of exotic cats and even a cat agility course, this year’s cat show is likely to be a blast.  
WEEKLY WATCH 

paul Thomas anderson’s “boogie nights” — which was voted the greatest movie of all time in a poll of Kentucky film critics — is finally available to stream on netflix. be sure to watch anderson’s master­piece this weekend, as scene writer nick laureano will dive deep into its complexities for monday’s paper. are you ready? 
OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 



Crossword | will shorTZ 

Just add watEr | John roddy & eric carlson sudoku | The mepham group 


FliNG By spriNG | riley mccurrie horosCopE | eugenia lasT 

happy birthday: a watchful eye will be necessary when dealing with your reputation, status and getting ahead. you’ll face competition that will not play fair. your precision and dedication will help you overcome anyone who tries to mess with you. honor and glory will be your ticket to victory. change is inevitable and preparation will be essential. choose your battles wisely. your numbers are 5, 13, 22, 24, 31, 37, 46. 
birthday baby: you are practical, impatient and secretive. you are opportunistic and bold. 
aries (march 21-april 19): be careful not to push someone who is likely to push back. be willing to work alongside your competition and you will gain respect. let your discipline and energetic enthusiasm shine and you’ll be hard to beat. 

Taurus (april 20-may 20): be brave and express your thoughts and plans. don’t be afraid to try something new or to get involved in an unusual event or activity. The outcome will be enlightening and give you food for thought. romance is on the rise. 

gemini (may 21-June 20): helping someone out is fine, but if you loan out cash, it could ruin your friendship and leave you holding a bad debt. a secretive approach to something you want to develop will enable you to reach your goal without interference. 

cancer (June 21-July 22): you’ll be tempted to help someone who has a sob story. back up and rethink your position. you will gain far more if you put your effort in to your own ideas rather than someone else’s. romance will enhance your personal life. 

leo (July 23-aug. 22): check out the online job market and something will grab your attention and spark an idea that will enable you to advance. Finding ways to entertain your peers or employer will put you in the running for a cushy position. 

virgo (aug. 23-sept. 22): don’t give in to personal conflict. Take care of business before you opt to have fun. reassure those who put demands on you that you will take part when the time is right. offering alternative incentives will lead to help, not hindrance. 

libra (sept. 23-oct. 22): don’t let emotional matters cloud your vision. make a point to learn something that will help you move in a positive direction and improve your chances of getting ahead. a business partnership will lead to an interesting alternative. 

scorpio (oct. 23-nov. 21): an old friend will play a role in a creative endeavor you want to pursue. offering to help one another will pay off and make your quest for success much easier. romance will enhance your day. 

sagiTTarius (nov. 22-dec. 21): don’t leave anything unfinished or you will face complaints. someone will be eager to make you look bad. add to your comfort at home and make sure to take the time to enjoy your hobbies and friends. 

capricorn (dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t give in to someone’s demands or pushiness. stand your ground and make it clear what you believe is best for you. put your thoughts on paper and draw up an agreement if necessary. better to be safe than sorry. 

aQuarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): recognize and market your skills. what you have to offer can bring in extra cash and change the way people view you. home improvements should be geared toward making a space conducive to getting a project up and running. 

pisces (Feb. 19-march 20): Know what you want, but go about getting it in a diplomatic manner. being too forceful will invite arguments and opposition. Try to attract opportunity by offering incentives to the people you need help from. 

JumBlE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 
city     state Zip 



sports authority 

UConn is not hurting the sport 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
The golden state warriors are 69-9 on the season. only a sparse handful of teams have been able to keep a close game with the phenomenal talent on their roster. i hate to punish them for being great, but they’re killing the nba. 
not that the warriors shouldn’t try to win all of their games — and we cer­tainly don’t want to impose rules or regulations to limit their effectiveness. but it’s not fun for viewers and it’s not good for the sport. who, after all, would want to watch superior basketball when we could simply watch a lower-quality — but more com­petitive — product? golden state’s dominance is not good for the nba or the promotion of basketball as a sport. 
This, of course, is a ri­diculous argument. nobody would ever in a thousand years accuse the golden state warriors of being bad for the nba, much less the sport of basketball as we know it. and yet there are pundits, ama­teur writers and fans across social media whom seem convinced the dominant connecticut women’s bas­ketball team, who just won its unprecedented fourth-straight national champion­ship, are just that: bad for the game. 
The argument seems to be not that uconn is too good at what they do, or that women’s sports are inherently less in­teresting than men’s. i believe that those who hold the opin­ions listed above are genuine when they say they are not speaking from an anti-wom­en’s sport position. rather, they seem to think the uconn women are an uninteresting team because they have no rivals. There’s no competi­tion, and therefore, they are turning fans off to what has become a “boring” sport. 
in the interest of full disclo­sure, i am a major women’s basketball fan. being able to play in the band and having the opportunity to support the women’s team as i have in the past four years of my college career, i’ve seen my fair share of games featuring great teams, the huskies be­ing among them. notre dame has played uconn a number of times in recent years, and i distinctly remember every game being competitive and full of energy. Those two teams excelled at the sport of basketball, and the drama that ensued on the court in each matchup was compelling and interesting. 
it is true that, in the past, parity has proven hard to come by in the women’s game on the collegiate level. uconn’s success is unprec­edented, but the alleged issue goes deeper than that. upsets are rare, and picking chalk seems to be the preferred method of prediction when setting a women’s bracket up for march madness. however, i would argue that, since uconn began its dominant streak, parity in the women’s game has actually increased significantly. Teams like fourth-seeded syracuse and seventh-seeded washington competed with perennial heavyweights like stanford and maryland — and won, sometimes handily. only a single no. 1 seed — uconn — made it to the Final Four in the women’s tournament — a statistic that was mirrored in the men’s bracket. The level of competition in women’s college basketball is rising, but some observers are too short-sighted to look past the success of one of the most dominant sports teams in his­tory to see the development of the sport occurring right in front of their eyes. 
i truly do believe that critics of the state of women’s col­lege basketball do not believe that they are speaking from a position of privilege when they suggest that uconn’s success is bad for the sport. That being said, i suspect the words of uconn head coach geno auriemma deserve a bit more attention than perhaps they were afforded when first spoken. 
“when Tiger [woods] was winning every major, nobody said he was bad for golf,” auriemma said. “actually, he did a lot for golf. he made everybody have to be a bet­ter golfer. we don’t appre­ciate people for how good they are and what a good job they do; we always have to compare it to something. it’s only in women’s basketball. it’s the only sport where that happens.” 
i am by no means a huskies fan — their dominance has vexed me on a number of oc­casions. but i would never presume their success to be bad for the sport. rather, i think it is important that we realize how damaging and retroactive that viewpoint can actually be. 
Contact Brent O’Connell at  boconne1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
mlB | yanKees 16, asTros 6 
yankees dominate astros for first victory of year 
Associated Press 
new yorK — starlin castro looks perfectly com­fortable in pinstripes. 
The yankees’ new sec­ond baseman homered and drove in five runs, mark Teixeira had four rbis and new york trounced the houston astros 16-6 for its first victory of the season wednesday night. 
in his first two games with new york, castro has a re­cord seven rbis. The previ­ous yankees mark for rbis in a player’s first two games with the team was set by Todd greene, who knocked in six runs in 2001, accord­ing to sTaTs. 
“starlin castro is playing T-ball right now,” teammate carlos beltran said. “it’s good to see him swinging the bat like that. he’s a big key.” 
Teixeira and castro each hit a three-run homer. beltran also went deep and castro finished with four of the 17 hits for the yankees, who chased collin mchugh (0-1) in a six-run bottom of the first inning that lasted 36 minutes. 
castro was obtained in an offseason trade with the chicago cubs, where the three-time all-star had an up-and-down tenure and was moved from shortstop to second base last year to make room for rookie addison russell. 
“i just want to be the player that i used to be, to show everybody that i can be the player that i am,” said castro, who set a major league record with six rbis in his big league debut for the cubs in may 2010 against cincinnati. 
“it’s a good opportunity for me to be in this organiza­tion,” he added. “i don’t re­ally feel pressure either way, but i think here it’s less.” 
carlos correa went 4 for 5 with two home runs and george springer had his first career grand slam for houston, a 5-3 winner Tuesday in the frigid opener (36 degrees at game time). This one started with the temperature at 43 degrees and took 3 hours, 45 min­utes to complete. 
new york’s bats were hot all night, though. 
brian mccann had a two-run double in the first, brett gardner walked a career-high four times and pinch-hitter ronald Torreyes hit a two-run triple in his first at-bat with the yankees. 
castro followed with a run-scoring single to make it 16-6 in the seventh. 
“nice pace that he’s on,” yankees manager Joe girardi said. “we felt that he would be big in our lineup, that he gave us a lot better balance than we’ve had.” 
michael pineda (1-0) ben­efited from the offensive outburst, taking home a win despite allowing six runs and eight hits — includ­ing three homers — in five innings. 
ivan nova, beaten out by cc sabathia for the no. 5 spot in the rotation, finished with four scoreless innings on a windy night for his first major league save. it was his first relief appearance since June 2013. 
“he did a really good job,” girardi said. “it was tough conditions for pitchers tonight.” 
mchugh, a 19-game win­ner last season, managed to get only one out in the short­est start of his career. he beat pineda twice last year and entered with a 1.88 era and 16 strikeouts over 14 1-3 innings in two starts against the yankees. 
Nhl | red wings 3, Flyers 0 
Howard makes 30 saves as Detroit moves into third 
Associated Press 
deTroiT — if the detroit red wings make the playoffs for a 25th straight year, they can thank Jimmy howard. 
howard made 30 saves, darren helm, andreas athanasiou and Kyle Quincey scored for detroit, and the red wings took a step toward another postseason appearance with a 3-0 win over the philadelphia Flyers on wednesday night. 
The red wings (93 points) lead boston (91) in the race for third place in the atlantic division. philadelphia (91) is tied with the bruins for the second wild card. 
“i think it’s just the pay­ing attention to detail,” howard said. “we’ve been a lot smarter with the puck — not forcing things, and just taking what’s given.” 
while teammate petr mrazek has struggled in net, howard has won all three of his starts this month. wednesday was his second shutout of the season. 
The  Flyers  have  three  
games  remaining,  while  
detroit  and  boston  have  

two each. The bruins host the red wings on Thursday night, and a win would put detroit in the playoffs. 
“From day one, we’ve had to grind out wins. everything’s been close,” red wings coach Jeff blashill said. “we’ve never been truly comfortable in a playoff spot. at times, we’ve been on the outside looking in.” 
helm scored in the first period and athanasiou add­ed a short-handed goal in the second for detroit, which hasn’t missed the postsea­son since 1990. Quincey’s goal was an empty-netter. 
detroit took a 1-0 lead on helm’s goal. philadelphia’s shayne gostisbehere was trying to help clear the puck by flinging it around behind the net from near the cor­ner, but instead it went to­ward the goal and bounced in front, where helm was able to flip it past Flyers goalie steve mason for his 13th goal of the season. 
an even more glaring mistake led to the second goal. philadelphia’s Jakub voracek let the puck get past him near the boards with the Flyers on the power play. There was nobody back to prevent athanasiou from going in alone on a break­away, and his eighth goal of the season made it 2-0. 
“They played a good game. we played a good game too,” philadelphia’s claude giroux said. “They got a couple bounces. we had chances on the power play and at even strength.” 
mason made 23 saves. his most impressive se­quence came in the second when he stopped a break­away by helm, then recov­ered in time to deny luke glendening’s follow-up attempt. 
voracek hit the crossbar with a wrist shot in the sec­ond, and that’s the closest the Flyers came to beating howard. 


The observer | thursday, april 7, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

mEN’s tENNis 

Notre Dame set for Senior Day 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
This Friday is senior day for notre dame, and its com­petition, a familiar acc foe, will likely be its toughest test of the season. 
The irish will face off against no. 1 north carolina, which has retained the top spot of the iTa national rank­ings for three straight weeks. The Tar heels (21-2, 6-2 acc), who won the 2016 iTa indoor national championship back in February, arrive in south bend fresh off a loss. last time out, north carolina fell to no. 6 wake Forest at home, 4-3. The irish (12-12, 4-6 acc) will look to send their seniors out with a win at the last home match of the sea­son. although notre dame will be the underdog enter­ing the match, irish head coach ryan sachire knows the irish will give it every­thing they have on senior day. 
“i’m hoping and expecting to see a very spirited effort from our guys,” sachire said. “north carolina has a great team but i think we’re going to play well and have a lot of energy and excitement.” 
after this match, the irish will travel to north carolina state next weekend for their final acc regular season match before beginning preparation for the acc championships. sachire ref­erenced the grueling sched­ule the irish have faced this year and said it will help in preparation for this match and the acc championships. 
“we’ve played one of the best schedules in the country this year, so our whole season has prepared us for the acc championships and for this match,” sachire said. “we’re not putting a lot of extra ef­fort in this week because it’s just enough match for us, but it’s also senior day and our last home match of the season, so its important to recognize that and play well with a lot of energy.” 
Following the match, the irish will honor their five se­niors — alex lawson, Quentin monaghan, nicolas montoya, Kenneth sabacinski, and eric schnurrenberger. lawson currently holds 89 career doubles wins, which puts him into third place on notre dame’s all-time doubles win list. 
monaghan was an ncaa singles championship semi­finalist last year and was named an all-american, while this year he is ranked no. 33 in the latest singles poll. sachire commented on his deep senior class and what they have meant to the program. 
“This group has been a re­ally special group,” sachire said. “each of them through­out his career has made re­ally big contributions to this program. They’re great peo­ple. we’re gonna miss them for who they are, first and foremost, but also obvious­ly for what they’ve done on the court and what they’ve brought to this program.” 
The match against north carolina will begin Friday at 
3:30 p.m. at courtney Tennis center. 
Contact Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 


NBa | pisTons 108, magic 104 
pistons win close game, remain in no. 8 spot 
Associated Press 
orlando, Fla. — reggie Jackson scored 24 points and Kentavious caldwell-pope added 18 to help lead the detroit pistons to a 108-104 win over the orlando magic on wednesday night. 
The win kept the pistons (42-37) in contention in the eastern conference playoff race. They remained a half-game behind indiana, which beat cleveland, for the no. 7 spot. 
The magic’s three-game home winning streak ended. They held a 96-92 lead late in the fourth quarter, but then saw it slip away. 
after going back and forth for much of the first three quarters, the pistons took con­trol late in the fourth quarter. Tobias harris, caldwell-pope and Jackson all hit big shots in the final five minutes to rally the pistons. caldwell-pope gave the pistons 97-96 lead late in the fourth quarter on a 3-pointer following a turnover by orlando’s victor oladipo. 
evan Fournier led five orlando players in double fig­ures with 19 points. 
The magic made it inter­esting down the stretch, but the pistons converted seven of eight free-throw attempts in the final 24.6 seconds to stay out front. Jackson sank four free throws during that stretch and marcus morris hit his final two free throws to put the game away. 
The pistons shot 45 percent from the field and 41 percent from 3-point range for the game, while the magic con­verted 48 percent from the floor but were just 4 of 15 from 3-point range. orlando also committed 14 turnovers. 
detroit opened the sec­ond half much more aggres­sively, outscoring orlando 16-6 in the first 5 ½ minutes to claim a 60-57 advantage. harris scored five points and caldwell-pope also had seven points during the run to be­gin the second half. but the magic did manage to recover late in the third as Fournier broke from his early slump to add 12 points in the third to help orlando reclaim the lead and take a 77-73 lead into the fourth quarter. 
The magic’s offense wasn’t nearly as fluid as it had been in the previous five games but it was good enough to claim a 51-44 lead going into halftime. orlando claimed its 
paid adverTisemenT 
largest lead with a strong fin­ish in the final five minutes to erase a 41-35 deficit. orlando outscored the pistons 16-3 down the stretch in the sec­ond quarter to claim a sev­en-point advantage halftime -- its largest lead of the half. 
tip-ins 
detroit small forward Tobias harris returned to orlando on wednesday night for the first time since being traded in February. The magic sent harris to detroit in ex­change for F ersan illyasova and pg brandon Jennings. ... The pistons had 13 fast-break points, compared to 11 by the magic. 
The magic entered wednesday night’s game av­eraging 119.2 points per out­ing in their last five games. They had also won four of their last five game and three straight at home. ... c nikola vucevic continues to come off the bench since return­ing to the floor last week after a groin injury kept him out for an extended time. coach scott skiles says vucevic is still a starter, but right now both he and the team are playing well with him coming off the bench. 




Nd womEN’s tENNis 

Irish look to bounce back against Clemson 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to host con­ference rival clemson on Friday afternoon at eck Tennis pavilion at 3:30 p.m., looking to rebound from a loss to no. 8 duke. 
irish head coach Jay louderback said he liked the way his team performed last weekend against the blue devils (15-4, 8-2 acc) and expressed the need for his team to play well in their final matches before the upcoming acc championships. 
“we competed well last week­end and we need to keep that up,” louderback said. “leading in to the acc championships, every match is important and we need the entire team to keep working toward each match.” 
The irish (10-9, 4-6 acc) were last in action on sunday when they suffered a 4-1 loss in durham, north carolina. in the singles competition that day, sophomore brooke broda emerged as the victor in her match 6-2, 7-6(3) on court no. 5. however, senior Quinn gleason did not find the same success, losing 7-6, 6-3, on court no. 1. Junior monica robinson had the same result, suffering a 6-3, 6-3 loss on court no. 2, while sopho­more allison miller was bested 6-3, 6-4 on court no. 3. in a close match, junior mary closs was victorious in her first set 7-6(5) before falling in the second set 6-4. she was losing 4-0 in the third and deciding set, when the match was discontinued on court no. 4. Junior Jane Fennelly won her first two sets, 6-4 and 5-3, before her match was dis­continued on court no. 6. 
in doubles competition, the match between the doubles team of gleason and robinson and their opponents, duke se­nior beatrice capra and and freshman ellyse hamlin, ended 4-4 on court no. 1. closs and se­nior Julie vrabel were shut out 6-0 on court no. 2, while broda and miller suffered a 6-4 loss on court no. 3. 
looking ahead, three of the irish’s last four regular season matches will take place at their home court, eck Tennis pavilion. louderback said he thinks play­ing the majority of their final games at home will be good for his team, considering how its earlier schedule has been so road heavy. 

“Finishing with three of our last four matches at home will be key for us,” louderback said. “we have been on the road quite a bit in the past few weeks and having the chance to play at home comes at a great time.” 
clemson (8-7, 6-4 acc) is coming off of a 7-0 loss against no. 7 miami, but has won three of its last five games. some no­table wins for the Tigers this season has been victories over louisville, north carolina state and wake Forest. 
paid adverTisemenT 
after the contest against the Tigers, the irish will welcome no. 17 georgia Tech (13-6, 8-2 acc). The yellow Jackets will take on louisville on Friday before trav­eling to south bend for sunday’s matchup with the irish. The last time the yellow Jackets were in action was last sunday, when they defeated no. 12 virginia 4-3, with their season also including wins over clemson, syracuse and Tennessee. 
louderback said the mood of his team is upbeat and he believes his athletes will be ready to play two matches in three days. 
“we have had really good, positive practices this week and i think we will be ready,” louderback said. 
The irish and the Tigers will square off at 3:30 p.m. Friday, while the matchup with the yellow Jackets will take place at 11 a.m. sunday. 
Contact Michael Ivey at mivey@hcc-nd.edu 





wester 
conTinued From page 16 
the acc through 34 games, and her 49 hits and 1 stolen bases are second and fourth in the conference, respectively. 
“The game of softball is al­ways the same,” wester said of the transition to the college game. “it’s a matter of a team sport, so it’s just working in sequence and getting together and making sure you’re always doing something for the team. That’s what i really strive to work for.” 
she takes that same, team-first approach into the box with her every time steps up to the plate. 
“my approach up to the plate is always to get a good pitch and see what i can do to help the team out,” wester said. 
many freshman can find the experience of living away from home — especially when that home is over 2,000 miles away — difficult, and it can impact their performances on the field. For wester, however, having an older sister on the team freed her of that stress and allowed her to concen­trate on softball. 
“it is definitely a ways away from home for me, but it was nice having an older sister here, so i had the whole family aspect,” wester said. “so it was nice coming and not having to stress about home life and get­ting homesick because i did have a sister here.” 
and while california might be a ways away from indiana, the two sisters have made themselves a new home at the top of notre dame’s lineup this season. ali wester’s num­bers are impressive, but Karley wester is the sister who leads the irish in batting average, hits, runs, and stolen bases. 
while the younger wester would like nothing more than to pass her sister in those cat­egories, she said wouldn’t have things any other way either. 
“it’s definitely a competi­tion because we like to mess around with each other, but i love hitting behind my sister,” wester said. “it’s easy when she gets on base and i look for her to steal second … it’s al­most an automatic run for us, which is really nice.” 
ali wester also isn’t afraid to admit that she’s modeled part of her skill set after her older sister. 
“she’s a slapper, i’m a slap­per — i definitely go with the whole small game,” wester said. “she’s sometimes more of a power hitter than i am, but i focus more on the small game just like she does.” 
That small game has worked well for both her and the irish, as wester has been an integral part of a notre dame offensive attack that ranks 10th in bat­ting average and 12th in runs scored in the ncaa. and that’s all she could have ever wanted for her and her fellow class­mates this season, she said. 
“it’s really nice to make a difference on this team be­cause i wanted to come in making a difference, and that was my whole goal,” wester said. “… That was a goal as [a freshman class] — to make a difference — and so far we’ve done a great job of that.” 
The irish only have one day off as they travel to raleigh, north carolina, for a three-game series against acc foe north carolina state this weekend. First pitch on Friday is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 


KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 

Irish freshman second basewoman Ali Wester starts her leadoff during Notre Dame’s 5-4 win over Florida State on Sunday. 

paid adverTisemenT 
paid adverTisemenT 



way on base at least once as 
Football 

mcdaniel 
they combined for 14 hits conTinued From page 16 
conTinued From page 16 

and six walks, while six dif­ferent players recorded an a lights-out 92-93 miles an rbi. 
kick off their season sept. 5 hour fastball, but, with the and with the highest-
in austin, Texas against the type of pitcher he is, it’s ranked team they’ve played 
longhorns. incredibly important that all season — no. 3 miami 
“i think one thing that we’re he commands both sides of — coming to south bend for 
realizing is we did a lot of the plate with the fastball. a three-game set over the 
things offensively [last sea-and typically he does. he’s weekend, the irish will need 
son] that we did not do with pretty darn good.” to keep up their consistency 
malik in camp that we did as The irish will likely need on both sides of the plate. 
we evolved offensively during that to continue if they are They’ve proven they can 
the year,” he said. “so there’s a to build on their winning do it, with wins over the 
lot of things he’s doing for the ways in the second half of wolverines, oregon and no. 
first time, so knowledge base the season. beyond hearne, 14 north carolina state as 
for malik has been important each of the other three well as back-to-back con-
in terms of the spring. he’s irish starters — junior ryan ference series wins over 
needed this spring to pick up smoyer and sophomores virginia Tech and wake 
things we did offensively dur­sean guenther and peter Forest so far. 
ing the year. solomon — have eras un-as the team moves 
“with deshone, it’s across der 4. through april and into 
the board reads. it’s red-zone on the offensive side of may, notre dame will have 
efficiency. it’s consistency. the ball, notre dame has to show it can hang with 
“ … so it’s hard to evaluate been led in part by junior similar top teams if it hopes 
who’s ahead of who.” cavan biggio and seniors to make any kind of run in 
to get a shot. in fall camp, has moved up ricky sanchez and Zak the conference and earn 
hold on a second “with deshone and every-to fill the void left by an arm Kutsulis. all three play-a berth in the ncaa tour-
Just to throw another wrin-thing we’re asking him to do, injury to junior cornerback ers have batting averages nament in June. if recent 
kle into the quarterback po-we felt like, ‘let’s take a look nick watkins. watkins frac­well over .300, while biggio performances say anything 
sition this spring, junior at montgomery,’” Kelly said. tured his left humerus in prac­is tied for the ncaa lead about the state of this team, 
quarterback montgomery “look, i’ll be honest with you tice last week and underwent with 35 walks this season the irish certainly have the 
vangorder took first-team ... we had a conversation with successful surgery saturday already. ability to play with, and 
reps holding for the field goal our kickers and he [yoon] night, Kelly said. The reason they have beat, anyone. 
unit at the beginning of prac-had been lobbying a bit for watkins was at practice to-been able to put up so many 
tice wednesday morning. vangorder, and so we said day with his arm in a sling and runs recently, however, is Contact Hunter McDaniel at 
Kizer held for sophomore we’d give it a shot. and there’s is expected to be out of action that they have had con-hmcdani1@nd.edu 
kicker Justin yoon all last sea-a pretty good connection for six weeks, though there tributions up and down    The views expressed in this 
son and had continued that there, with that group. should be no longer term wor­the lineup. in the win over column are those of the author 
role throughout spring ball, “so we’ll continue to work ries, Kelly said. michigan, for example, ev-and not necessarily those of 
but Kelly said yoon made a it. he obviously has a little bit watkins and senior defen­ery single starter found his The Observer. 
personal appeal for vangorder more free time in terms of be-sive back cole luke had been ing able to get over there and splitting time at the nickel spend a little bit more time throughout spring so in case with [yoon], so we’re going to one of them gets injured, the move in that direction right irish won’t be limited in their now and montgomery will be packages and play-calling with that battery right now.” abilities on defense, Kelly said. 
Kizer still took snaps with the second specialty unit, Jones still seeking holding for senior kicker John confidence in return to chereson. field 
as for yoon himself, Kelly The first-team defensive said the sophomore has add-line wednesday morning con­ed a few yards to his comfort sisted of senior isaac rochell, range, going from 43 yards to sophomore Jerry Tillery and somewhere between 47 and 50 juniors daniel cage and Jay yards. hayes while graduate student 
“it looks like he’s got a little Jarron Jones saw time with the bit more pop in his leg,” Kelly second string. said. Jones, who missed all of the 
2015 regular season after tear-Crawford shining at ing his mcl in fall camp, is nickelback physically 100 percent, Kelly 
shaun crawford took first-said, but he added the interior team reps at the nickelback lineman is still dealing with position wednesday morning confidence issues. and the sophomore defensive “Jarron is still playing a bit back has impressed the coach-tentative,” Kelly said. “and i ing staff so far this spring, think he understands that he’s Kelly said. got to play with more confi­
“we like his ability to play dence. and i’m confident that man [coverage],” Kelly said. he will when the lights go on. “very smart player, instinc-“but having said that, tive player. i think you have to he’s going to be challenged. have a real good sense of the There’s a lot of good players in field [to play nickel]. corners there, and he’s going to have play out by the numbers, and to really bear down and make they have a friend with them: that concerted effort to really it’s called the sideline. challenge himself, because 
“[a] guy that plays inside has we know he’s got real unique got to understand the field a qualities: his size, his ability to lot better. he’s got to have an push the pocket. Those things instinct that can play inside, are still there. i think a little and [crawford] just has a nat-bit of his confidence is going to ural instinct to play inside a lot come back and when it does, i better.” think he’ll definitely be able to 
crawford, who was on track help us.” to earn playing time at the nickel as a true freshman last Contact Zach Klonsinski at  season before tearing his acl zklonsin@nd.edu 




FootBall 

Kelly examines quarterback situation, injuries 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor 
notre dame will not be like ohio state last season when it comes to the quar­terback position, irish head coach brian Kelly said fol­lowing wednesday morning’s practice. 
instead, Kelly said the irish will have one clear starter and leader on the field in the fall. 
“it seemed to me that ohio state found their identity af­ter the michigan state game, where i think in a lot of ways ezekiel elliott can be credited with waking up their entire coaching staff and saying, ‘who are we?’” Kelly said. “so i think the lessons learned there are, ‘what’s your identity go­ing to be?’ and they clearly de­cided who they were going to be after that game. They went with [J.T. barrett] and said, ‘This is what we’re going to be,’ and that’s who they were against us [in the Fiesta bowl]. 
“so i’ll make sure that doesn’t happen to us.” 
however, who that iden­tity will be based around 
—
 whether it’s senior signal caller malik Zaire or junior quarterback deshone Kizer 

—
 isn’t a question that will be answered anytime soon, Kelly reiterated. 


“i don’t think we’ll make a decision after spring,” Kelly said. “i will say this, i mean the two quarterbacks are re­ally good players. … They’re both no. 1s. They both proba­bly can’t play at the same time. so one’s going to have to be the starter, and somebody is going to be unhappy. 
“but i can’t keep them all happy, and we’re not going to go into the season with a team that does not have an identity. we’re going to have an identity as to who we are, and it doesn’t mean we can’t play more than one quarterback, but we’ll have a quarterback and we’ll get that established.” 
Kelly said Zaire has some catching up to do after being sidelined most of last season, but also added both Zaire and Kizer have plenty of improve­ment to do before the irish 
see FooTball paGE 15 

soFtBall 


Ali Wester shines in freshman season for Irish 
By BEN PADANILAM 
associate sports editor 
For the last two seasons, notre dame has had the bene­fit of junior center fielder Karley wester setting the table for the offense. 
but this season, the irish have doubled down on the wester family at the top of the order due to the emergence of her sister, freshman second baseman ali wester. 
ali wester was a premier talent at the high school level over the course of her career at edison high school. in three of her four years, the huntington beach, california, native eclipsed a .420 batting aver­age, including a .520 mark her senior year. she stole at least 20 bases in three seasons, was a two-year captain and was named to the maxpreps all-state team her senior year. 
and in her first year for the irish, wester has carried that success over to the collegiate level, making the transition seem almost effortless. her .434 average ranks fourth in the acc through 34 games, and in 
see wesTer paGE 14 
BasEBall 
nd righting ship at midseason 

Hunter McDaniel 
sports writer 
as the irish approach the midway point of their season this weekend, they are clear­ly trending in the right di­rection. They have won eight of their last nine, as well as 10 of their last 13 games. 
notre dame (16-11, 6-6 acc) has seemingly found a formula for success in recent weeks, combining quality starting pitching with con­sistent offensive success — they have now scored at least five runs in 10 consecutive contests and have averaged 
9.8 runs per game in the 
same stretch. and in the last nine games 
— a 15-run outburst from wake Forest aside — the pitching staff has held op­ponents to just 3.5 runs per game. 
after Tuesday night’s win over then no. 17 michigan, irish head coach mik aoki commented on notre dame’s success after struggling early. 
“all along, i felt like this was — the way we’ve been playing for the last two or three weeks — is how i thought we’d play the whole thing,” aoki said. “like i said, we got off to that slow start. but i think it speaks volumes to our team that they’ve stuck with it, and they’ve hung in there and they didn’t let the little bit of disappointment of the way we started the year affect anything else.” 
one of the reasons the irish have been playing so well so far this season has been senior starting pitcher michael hearne. The lefty improved to 3-0 on the sea­son with his win Tuesday, and notre dame is now 6-0 in games he starts. 
hearne leads irish start­ers with a 3.18 era, has 21 strikeouts to only 10 walks and is holding opponents to a .228 batting average against. 
“For michael, it’s always about the fastball — be­ing able to command the fastball on both sides of the plate,” aoki said Tuesday. “it’s not like his fastball is 
see mcdaniel paGE 15 




