the independent to uncoVer newspaper serVing the truth notre daMe and and report saint Mary’s it accurately 

VoluMe 50, issue 120 | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 
ND remembers Karabo Moleah 
Students share memories of classmate 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
Karabo Moleah had a way of making others feel spe­cial, third-year law student caroline shoemaker said. 
“you didn’t have to try to fit this prestigious law school mold with Karabo,” she said. “he celebrated all of our differ­ences. he loved what made us different, and he made us love our differences too. 
“i was unapologetically me when i was with him. we were all unapologetically ourselves when we were with Karabo.” 
Mosupatsela Karabo V. Moleah, 26, died March 31 in philadelphia. Moleah was a third-year law student par­ticipating in notre dame law school’s washington program this semester. 
Moleah was born in delaware, but moved to south africa — his parents’ home­land — when he was five years old. at age 10, Moleah’s family 
see Moleah PAGE 5 


holy half Marathon cancelled due to weather 
By MEGHAN SULLIVAN 
news writer 
the holy half Marathon was cancelled saturday morning due to icy route conditions, altering the plans of nearly 1,500 in­dividuals who planned to run the race. 
according to a statement from the race directors, safety concerns for the runners motivated their the decision to cancel the race. 
see holy half PAGE 7 

RACHEL O’GRADY | The Observer 
Students and community members run through campus after the Holy Half Marathon was cancelled due to unforeseen icy conditions. 


all-american rejects to play sub spring concert 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
the student union board (sub) announced sunday night that the all-american rejects will perform at the stepan center on april 23. 
according to louis bertolotti, executive director of sub, the committee is excited to bring the band to campus for its annual spring concert. 
“after receiving over 1,500 responses from the survey we sent out to the student body last month, we found that a clear plu­rality of nearly 30 percent wanted an alternative band as their first choice, and it was in the top two for about 50 percent of the student body,” bertolotti said in an email. “a further 23 percent wanted a pop artist as their first choice, and another 13 percent wanted a rock artist.” 

bertolotti said he felt the all­american rejects represented a mix of all of these options. 
“they have sold over 10 mil­lion albums worldwide and have recorded a number of top hits,” bertolotti said. “they released a new song in october of this past year and have begun recording a new album.” 
the mission of sub is to pro­vide quality programming for all undergraduate students at the university and colleges, accord­ing to bertolotti. 
“we are confident that the all­american rejects will do this and put on a phenomenal show. after 
see sub PAGE 7 




Students remain hospitalized 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A previous edition of this story appeared online April 5. 
two students injured in a car crash april 2 are both currently 
in  stable  condition,  Memorial  
hospital  reported  sunday  
afternoon.  

notre dame junior Jack riedy and saint Mary’s junior Mary gring were with scott gring, a south bend resident and Mary’s father, heading east on a bridge over the st. Joseph river near niles, Mich. scott gring, the vehi­cle’s driver, lost control on the icy road and spun across the center line, crashing into a westbound car. (Editor’s note: Jack Riedy is a Scene writer for The Observer.) 
while emergency responders were attempting to extricate riedy and Mary gring from the vehicle, another eastbound vehicle lost and struck a fire truck protecting 
see crash PAGE 4 


NAMI organizes week to advocate well-being 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news writer 
the notre dame chapter of the national alliance on Mental illness (naMi) is sponsoring its in­augural irish peace of Mind event this week, an event former naMi president Maggie skoch said is meant to be a parallel to irish state of Mind, which is in the fall. 
“the goal of this week, in par­ticular, is partially bridging out from irish state of Mind, which is very much focused on mental illness,” skoch said. “we thought we needed to engage in conversa­tion about mental well-being as a whole in addition to that.” 
ally Zimmer, the incoming naMi president, said she thinks of the spring event as working toward prevention and maintenance, whereas irish state of Mind in the fall is for raising awareness. 
to start the week off on Monday, naMi will take part in the tell Me about your day (tMayd) move­ment started at Mit. participants will wear rubber bracelets in an ef­fort to foster communication. 
“the purpose of the bracelet is to, one, serve as a reminder to the one wearing it to ask people and, 
see naMi PAGE 5 



news PAGE 3 Viewpoint PAGE 8 scene PAGE 11 football PAGE 20 Men’s tennis PAGE 20 



ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla Mullen                     christina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: Marek Mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin Mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint Mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, Managing editor, assistant 
Managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 
post office information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published Monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices postMaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Who do you want to win the World Series? 

Marissa Campilii 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“the yankees.” 
Andrew Lessard 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“not the cubs.” 
Andrew Price 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“i don’t really know.” 


Tyler Duffy 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“the dodgers.” 
Shailen Naick 
junior 
Zahm house 
“the san francisco giants.” 
Michael Antipas 
freshman 
Zahm house 
“the new york yankess.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

haleigh ehmsen ben padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: courtney becker Victoria llorens lucas Masin-Moyer 
Graphics Scene 

Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
lauren weldon Jimmy Kemper 
Photo Viewpoint 

Rodney F. Ganey Artist Talk by Men’s Lacrosse vs. Mindful Meditation Unveiling of “The 
rosie loVoi claire radler 

Ph.D. Awards Dinner Vanessa German Marquette Coleman-Morse Shirt” 2016 Morris Inn Snite Museum of Art Arlotta Stadium Center Hammes Bookstore 
5:15 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 6 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 4 p.m. 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

Awards for research German will speak on The Irish take on the Open to students, Brady Quinn will 
the observer regards itself as and teaching. inspirations and work. Golden Eagles. faculty and staff. appear. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Zumbathon Blood Drive Christ for the Curious Pride and Prejudice Labor Café 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Rockne Memorial Rolfs Sports and Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing Geddes Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 

Gymnasium Recreation Center Center Arts Center 5 p.m. - 6 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

6 p.m. - 8 p.m. 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8 p.m. 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Discuss issues related 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

Hosted by RecSports, Hosted by South Bend Discussion on the life Adapted from the to social justice and 
we can correct our error. 

open to community. Medical Foundation. of Jesus. novel by Jane Austen. income inequality. 

ndsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | the obserVer 

SMC juniors host moms 

student connects  
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
senior news writer 
saint Mary’s annual Junior Mom’s weekend attracted 540 moms, aunts and sisters this year, according to junior class president Maggie carswell. 
carswell said this weekend attracted the most for any par­ent weekend at the college including first-year parent’s weekend, sophomore parent’s weekend and senior dad’s weekend. 
the weekend kicked off on friday with a wine and cheese reception. the board also invited vendors including adesign & sons, inspire Me! and saint Margaret’s house to sell items like jewelry and scarves. 
saturday began with yoga in the morning followed by yo­gurt and granola bars. saturday afternoon events included cup­cake decorating, Mass at the church of our lady of loretto and culminated with dinner at the hilton garden inn with president carol ann Mooney. 
“i’m excited for the din­ner with president Mooney,” carswell said. “it will be re­ally nice for everyone to spend time with her [since] a lot of the moms are alumnae.” 
Junior class vice president aly parrett said the weekend provides saint Mary’s women an opportunity to bond with their moms and friends. 
“i hope they get to cherish these moments,” parrett said. “when you’re in college you don’t get to spend a lot of time with family. i hope [the juniors] are able to spend time and make memories.” 

Junior Johna Mitchem said she thought the weekend was well planned. 
“i loved having all the mom’s around,” Mitchem said. “i thought i was a nice balance of doing things and having time with our moms on our own.” 
Mitchem said the dinner at the hilton garden inn was her favorite part of the weekend. 
“Just being able to hang out with my friends and my friends’ moms meant so much to me to have my mom here this week­end,” she said. 
Mitchem said it was nice to 
paid adVertiseMent 

technology and social justice 
share her weekend activities with her mom. 
“i really enjoyed showing my mom my favorite parts of saint Mary’s and notre dame.” 
carswell said planning the weekend was a difficult, but rewarding experience. she and parrett credited the other class boards for helping to make the weekend run smoothly by serv­ing as volunteers. 
“it’s not easy planning this, it’s hard,” she said. “we try to make a weekend that everyone will enjoy. it’s not easy, but it’s worth it.” 
News writer Stephanie Snyder contributed to this report. 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
the final installment of this school year’s Justice friday se­ries took place this past friday. the discussion was led by saint Mary’s junior Kimberly orlando and focused on in­forming students about apple’s recent involvement with the fbi and the social justice issues that come alongside technolog­ical advancement. 
orlando started the discus­sion by explaining a timeline of events surrounding the san bernardino shooting. 
she said on June 8 the information technology industry council and the software and information industry association wrote a letter to president obama asking him not to pursue any policies that would weaken the encryption of digital products or services. 
on July 8, fbi director James comey asked the senate to consider inserting backdoors into encryption technology, orlando said. 
“‘back doors’ is a figurative term most people are familiar with. if a robber was to break into a house they would go through the back door, so it’s technology used to break into electronic devices,” orlando said. 
on december 2, 2015, syed rizwan farook and his wife tashfeen Malik killed 14 peo­ple and wounded 22 in a mass shooting and bombing attempt at the inland regional center in san bernardino, california. 
the next day, the fbi opened a counterterrorism investiga­tion into the couple, orlando said. 
“it gets a little controversial because i don’t think they ever proved that he had any part in or had any connections to the islamic state,” orlando said, “ … but people go back and forth [about the issue] and the gov­ernment might have just not wanted to release the informa­tion or they might be currently trying to figure it out.” 
James comey told a senate panel in feburary that fbi in­vestigators are still attempt­ing to unlock farook’s phone, orlando said. 
“two months had passed with no progress, so that was a little bit suspicious,” she said. 
orlando said united states Magistrate Judge sheri pym then sent out a mandate that apple create a software pro­gram with the intention of helping the fbi break into the phones of terrorists. 
“they wanted apple to write software where the phone’s memory won’t erase and there won’t be an escalating time be­tween trying to guess the pass-code so they [the fbi] could try as many combinations as pos­sible,” she said. 
orlando said if a phone was locked by a six digit alphanu­merical code, even with the desired software, it could still potentially take the govern­ment five and a half years to open the phone. 
“i think one of the biggest is­sues with this case is why the government would need apple’s help, this seems like something government should be able to do by themselves,” she said. 
if apple complied with this order, the government could have access to a person’s phone content including their photos, contact information or credit card numbers, orlando said. 
“one of the issues people have is figuring out how the govern­ment can do this,” orlando said. “there is a piece of legislation written in 1789, when george washington was still around, where there is a script of com­mand saying if the government finds it so necessary for you to do something, you have to do it. somehow it hasn’t been nulled in 200 years and so people got pretty riled up about that.” 
orlando said the fbi was able to unlock the phone with out­side help March 28. 
“it’s scary because it took the government three months to unlock an older iphone,” orlando said. 
orlando said any phone with the ios 8 update is automatical­ly encrypted and access to user information is nearly impos­sible; even apple does not have access to their phone user’s in­formation. the only way to ac­cess the phone’s information is by physically unlocking the phone. 
“this is one of the first times we’ve had a secure network and that’s scary,” she said. 
orlando said us legisla­tion is nearly 30 years behind technology. 
“we don’t have any legislation covering technology in the u.s. right now,” she said. “we don’t have anything on the internet or phones, it’s all very vague and so i understand why we had to use this [old] legislation but we shouldn’t have to.” 
orlando said technology-based social issues need to be addressed in the future. 
“because you can’t break into an iphone, we are creating a secure network for terrorists,” she said. “yet is it worth hav­ing to downgrade all of your security for these potential risks?” 
Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 



the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 


author shares story 
By IZZY KEHNER 
news writer 
saint Mary’s hosted author Karen lee boren on thursday for a reading and signing of her recently-released collection of short stories, “Mother tongue.” 
“‘[Mother tongue]’ is a book of hope in that it is a sort of liter­ary cinderella story,” boren said. “it renewed my belief in literary humanity.” 
boren said this novel was sub­mitted to new waters press 10 years after submitting it to the headwaters literary competition. she said the original reader of her work for the competition submit­ted an updated copy without tell­ing boren. 
“out of the blue, i got a new press e-mail that said [they wanted] to publish [my] book.” boren said. “fairy tales do come true.” 
boren said the meaning of a written work lasts longer than most writers think. 
“we are always looking for the next sentence, the next word, the next theme, the next idea,” she said. “it’s surprising how many of the themes stay with me from when i was writing in my twenties.” 
boren said she used inspira­tion from her life growing up in Milwaukee. 
“i draw from real life as much as i need to,” she said. “usually more than i think at the time.” 
dionne bremyer, saint Mary’s associate professor of english, met boren while studying at rhode island college and said they have main­tained their friendship over the years. 
“My admiration for her has grown every day since i’ve come to understand how amazingly good she is — as a teacher, as a writer, as human being,” bremyer said. 
boren said this is the second time the college has invited her on campus. boren also visited the college after the publication of her novella, “girls in peril.” 
“it is … my pleasure to see [bremyer] in her environment.” boren said. “My mother had six kids and she told us all we were her favorite. unlike her, i’m going to be honest and say that [bremyer] has always been my favorite.” 
Contact Izzy Kehner at ikehner01@saintmarys.edu 
Crash 
continued froM page 1 
the scene, which was pushed into the gring car with the stu­dents still inside it. 
all three people in the gring vehicle were taken to Memorial hospital in south bend. as of sunday afternoon, all three of their conditions were report­ed as stable, according to the hospital. 

The Observer receives ICPA awards 
Observer Staff Report 
the observer won 18 awards at the 2016 indiana collegiate press association (icpa) awards this weekend in indianapolis, including third place in the division i newspaper of the year catego­ry and first place in the special issue category for the March 2, 2015 edition commemorating university president emeritus fr. theodore hesburgh. 
the news department, led by current editor-in-chief and former news editor Margaret hynds, won second place for best in-depth story for hynds and former saint Mary’s editor haleigh ehmsen’s coverage of the response to screenings of “the hunting ground” at notre dame and saint Mary’s. hynds also won second place for best breaking news reporting for her coverage of the death of notre dame student lisa yang. 
additionally, the department won third place for its sexual assault series in the best news or feature series category. 
the sports department, led by former sports editor and current assistant Managing editor Zach Klonsinski, took home four awards, including second place in best sports column for former senior sports writer Mike Monaco’s column after the irish men’s basketball team’s loss to Kentucky in the elite eight. Monaco also won third place in the best sports news story cat­egory for his wrap of the same game. additionally, former editor-in-chief greg hadley won third place for best sports feature for his piece “huffman seized the moment, pushes notre dame to title game.” the department also won second place for best sports page for a page in an irish insider titled “cruise control.” 

the sports department teamed up with the graphics department to take home sec­ond place for best pull out section for the irish insider “Quiet noise: will fuller.” 
the graphics depart­ment, led by former graphics editor erin rice, also won first place for best special section or front cover for rice and Kat robinson’s “super human: Jaylon smith” cover. additionally, former photo editor Zach llorens and former graphics editor Keri o’Mara won third place for best special section cover for their bengal bouts irish insider cover. 
the scene section, led by scene editor erin Mcauliffe, won first place for best podcast for their “scenecast: deathcast,” created by Mcauliffe, former scene editor Miko Malabute, 
paid adVertiseMent 
Matt McMahon, Matt Munhall and adam ramos. McMahon also won third place in the best entertainment column catego­ry for his piece “is it time to give the shaggs another listen?” 
the Viewpoint section won third place for best opinion column for billy McMahon’s piece “practically pro-life.” 
former online editor Michael yu, former assistant Managing editor Kevin song and llorens won second place for best special presentation online for the hesburgh me­morial website. 
the 2015-2016 editorial board won first place for best editorial for its piece on sexual assault, “we’re mad as hell.” 
the observer also took home first place for best blog for the study abroad blog, and third place for best themed issue for the 2015 commencement issue. 



ndsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | the obserVer 

Moleah 
continued froM page 1 
moved to austria, where his father was appointed south africa’s am­bassador. Moleah later returned to south africa to attend board­ing school and then earned his undergraduate degree in crimi­nal justice at temple university. 
“Karabo, i am confident to say, was the most interesting person in all of notre dame,” third-year law student eddy panchernikov said at a reception following a memorial Mass held in Moleah’s honor last tuesday. 
“at this point, i am not even sure i have his full story right — and that’s his fault. he would never talk about himself, that was just who he was,” panchernikov said. “when you were with him it was always about you, he wanted to know you, about your back­ground, why you thought the way you thought, why you were saying the things you were saying.” 
Mack watson, a third-year law student and friend of Moleah’s, said Moleah was a gifted speaker and communicator, who loved to challenge others’ positions and be challenged himself. 
“he spoke in a manner that re­sembled poetic verse, weaving le­gal concepts together with black colloquialisms and frequent analogies to structure not an ar­gument — but a truism — on is­sues such as history, race, sex, violence, men, women, politics and religion. he lacked any sort of fear of the so-called offensive but rather embraced honesty fully, regardless of social stigma or consequences.” 
bruce huber, associate profes­sor of law, said Moleah helped create a stimulating academic environment, in and out of the classroom. 
“i’m also sure that as i got to know him, i gained the privilege of speaking with a thoughtful, motivated, curious man with a remarkable background and unique outlook on life,” he said. 
Moleah’s  intellect  surfaced  
in  every  aspect  of  his  life,  
panchernikov said.  

“Karabo’s every saying, every quick quip, was a philosopher’s poem, bursting with significance and consequence, knowable only to him and revealable only at his pleasure,” he said. “Karabo’s in­tellect however, was matched by his humor and wit. Many times taking one of our jokes an elevat­ing it far beyond anything we in­tended in terms of humor.” 
Moleah took fashion seriously and always looked “swaggy,” third-year law student colin Mcarthur said, which helped showcase “his individuality and magnetism — his sheer confi­dence, intensity and completely unique approach to everything.” 
“Karabo was always memora­ble. always.” Mcarthur said. 
Moleah’s laugh was also mem­orable and captivating, third-year law student courtney laidlaw said. 
“he made you feel like a million dollars,” he said. “you’d say some­thing and he would laugh — and it was a genuine laugh. he was a pleasure to be around, always.” 
nell newton, Joseph a. Matson dean and professor of law, said Moleah left an indelible mark on his classmates, friends and facul­ty during his time at notre dame. 
“he commanded attention in any space or classroom because of his confident demeanor, yet unlike many who stand out in a crowd, his focus was always on others,” she said. “he challenged the status quo in a way that made you listen, whether you were a classmate or the dean of the law school.” 
Jimmy gurulé, a professor of law who taught Moleah’s first-year criminal law class, said he thinks Moleah would have made a great impact on the justice system. 
“he would have brought a unique perspective and diverse life experiences to the practice of criminal law,” he said. “his guid­ing light would have been the pursuit of justice. in the process, he would have touched and up­lifted the lives of everyone with whom he came into contact, just the way he did at notre dame.” 
newton said Moleah’s fellow students have said after talking to him, they often felt “lighter and better about themselves and their place in the world.” 
“he had an aura of friendly en­ergy — like a gravitational field pulling others into his orbit,” watson said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 

paid adVertiseMent 
NAMI 
continued froM page 1 
two, if someone sees you wearing that bracelet, it shows that you’re open to having a conversation,” skoch said. “the goal is to move further toward a culture of care and concern where we actually an­swer the question, ‘how are you?’ honestly.” 
tMayd bracelets can be picked up from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. outside of debartolo hall and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. outside north and south dining halls on Monday. 
also on Monday, a “Mental health and Me” student panel will be held at 7 p.m. in 210 debartolo hall. Zimmer said five students will be speaking on various topics re­lated to mental illness, health and well-being. 
“i think the student panel is a pretty important event because it’s hearing from people’s peers what they think about mental health, especially at notre dame or in their own lives and experiences,” she 
paid adVertiseMent 
said. 
there will be free massages tuesday in the coleman-Morse stu­dent lounge from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
at 3 p.m. wednesday, a free yoga class will be sponsored by the Mcdonald center for student well-being in the third-floor con­ference room of st. liam’s hall. immediately following, from 4 
p.m. to 5:30 p.m., puppies from the heartland small animal rescue will be at fieldhouse Mall for stu­dents to play with. 
that evening, at 7 p.m., short films from the Mental health channel — an online network that makes documentaries on mental wellbeing — will be shown in the carey auditorium in hesburgh library. 
“i picked the videos out to have a balance between issues directly related to mental illness and things more that anybody can use to make 
sure  they’re  mentally  healthy,”  
Zimmer said.  
throwback  thursday  will  be  

from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in breen­phillips hall. according to skoch, 
the evening is meant to “hearken back to our childhood.” chick-fil-a nuggets and other “kids food” will be available during a screening of “Mulan.” 
to close out the week, free ber­ries will be available at fieldhouse Mall from 11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. friday. Various administrators and student government members who work to promote student well-being will be available during this time for a “meet and greet.” 
skoch and Zimmer said they hope the event will promote con­versation and help students realize that mental health isn’t just some­thing to be concerned about if you have a mental illness. 
“in my work and in the work that has been done, we hear a lot of sto­ries from students,” skoch said. “we hear good things we hear not so good things, and some of the com­mon things that comes up is stu­dents feel like they’re they only ones going through something. they are having to maintain an outward pic­ture of perfection while inside they might not be doing so well or might even be falling apart. 
“often, the conversation is stopped when it’s either, ‘you have a mental illness or you don’t have a mental illness,’ when really every­one exists on a spectrum of well­being. you can be diagnosed with a mental illness and be incredibly mentally well and you can not be diagnosed with a mental illness and be incredibly not mentally well.” 
Zimmer said it was important for students to have “better conscious­ness of their own health,” especially at notre dame. 
“My hope is students talk about mental health a little more and about the best ways to pursue it, how they can take ownership of their own mental health, especially because at notre dame it’s tempt­ing to push mental health to be a lower priority when grades and ac­tivities and leadership and all those things can really get in the way and become the focus,” Zimmer said. “there has to be a balance to make sure you’re not running yourself into the ground.” 
Contact Megan Valley at mvalley@nd.edu 




ndsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | the obserVer 

fans from across the nation. disappointed.” which is really cool, and 
SUB Holy Half 
runner Kristine Kelly said each year, the holy half we’re receptive to that.” 
continued froM page 1 
continued froM page 1 she was disappointed with club organizes and oversees Moreover, the continued the news of the cancellation. the races, one of the largest success of the half marathon “our decision to cancel “it’s pretty unfortunate. i student-led events at notre has increased the amount of 

the great success of the hunter the race was neither our first was kind of sad, but safety is dame. Junior peter rodgers, money raised by the event. 
hayes concert last semester, we nor preferred choice, but as most important, so i’m glad president of the club, said proceeds from this year 
are looking forward to this ex-details of traffic conditions they had that into consider-the planning structure of will be donated to three lo-
citing event,” he said. and the dangers it presented ation,” she said. “ … it’s hard the event is divided into cal charities — reins of 
lead sub programmer to runners were reported by to plan for things like this, a number of different cat-life, st. Vincent de paul and 
shadmn Mihr said he also various organizations in the extreme weather conditions egories, including course hannah’s house. 
thought the band was a good fit minutes leading to the origi-in april.” design, food and entertain-rodgers said the student 
for the student body’s requests. nal start time, it became our graduate student emily ment, sponsorships and vol-organizers were involved in 
“polls conducted of the stu­only choice,” the statement bacher was set to run the unteer recruitment. planning aspects out of the 
dent body strongly spoke of a said. race with her dad and “we also do a lot of race that have been handled 
desire to return to a prominent the statement said the di-said she was upset by the work with the university by independent contractors 
band with several hits, and all-rectors will continue to com-cancellation. council people, which is in the past. 
american rejects fits that bill,” municate with the runners “we ended up running our the [notre dame security “for instance, for course 
Mihr said in the press release. over the next several weeks own 13.1 miles that after-police], [notre dame fire design this year, we com-
originally from oklahoma, regarding the next steps. noon around campus any-department], student pletely did that ourselves 
the all-american rejects broke “as fellow runners, we rec-ways, and it was great to activities facilities, in terms of measuring the 
into the mainstream with hits ognize the true accomplish-accomplish that together, recsports and medical to course and making it up 
like “gives you hell” and “Move ment of training for a half but it still wasn’t the same make sure that on race day, to usa track and field 
along.” marathon during the winter as getting to cross the finish the runners are safe [and] association standards,” he 
“we know this concert will months at notre dame. we line,” bacher said. the roads are clear for run-said. 
be a success, and notre dame are disappointed that the bacher said it was always a ners,” rodgers said. the committee also 
will be vibing all night long as hard work of 1,500 runners, personal goal to run the half this year would have planned to increase hall 
they sing some of the most well-and in particular, of over 800 marathon, and she was ex-marked the 12th consecutive participation this year. prize 
known songs of the last decade,” students, was not fully real-cited to run it with her dad. year of the half marathon. incentives would have been 
Mihr said. ized on saturday,” the state-“i finally convinced my “[the holy half] has grown awarded to residence halls 
tickets will go on sale ment said. dad to run this one with me,” a lot bigger and is more with the most volunteers at 
Monday at 7 a.m. for $20 in the the holy half, a charity she said. “i paid for his regis-well known,” rodgers said. the newly-implemented wa­
lafortune student center box event benefitting the south tration as a christmas pres-“right now everyone knows ter and cheering stations, 
office, according to the release. bend community, consists ent, and he flew all the way our logo in the south bend rodgers said. 
all notre dame, saint Mary’s of both a 13.1-mile race and from south carolina for the area, and it’s a huge race. all 
and holy cross students are eli­a 10-kilometer race run by race. we had both trained other kinds of races in south Associate News Editor Rachel 
gible to buy tickets. additionally, students and faculty of the really hard for the event bend and a lot of student O’Grady contributed to this 
tickets will be sold at the door notre dame, saint Mary’s and were really excited. clubs kind of want to use the report. 
for $25. and holy cross campuses, when they broke the news holy half as a vehicle to tell members of the south bend about the race being can-the other area runners about Contact Meghan Sullivan at 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  community, alumni and celled, we were definitely their own races and events, msulli41@nd.edu 
rogrady@nd.edu 
paid adVertiseMent 



the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dressing for success 
Stephanie Snyder 
news writer 
imagine if, as college students, we dressed for the jobs we wanted rather than the one we have now. 
future businessmen and women would have to work for their looks and strut their profes­sional wear while future doctors and nurses could just throw on their comfy scrubs before class. 
as of now, we live on a campus where college students slide by wearing sweatpants and over­sized t-shirts to class. dressing for success has become a thing of the past on college campuses. 
My first year at college, i started out going to class in an attempt to look my best every day. day after day, i would plan my outfit according to what i had planned and what the weather would be like. however, as the semester went on and the stress of finals began to kick in, my wardrobe gradually dwindled. 
second semester was even worse. with a fresh start to classes, i began yet again with the goal of dressing nicely every day for classes. again, this time — much faster than the previous se­mester — i found myself throwing on the first thing my eyes met when i woke up in the morn­ing; usually sweats and a tee. 
don’t get me wrong, i’ve never looked at people going to class and thought, “wow, you look like a slob.” that was never my motivation for dressing nicely. My motivation was feeling like i was prepared and ready to tackle the day successfully. 
however, as the semester goes on and the work piles on, taking that extra time to get ready in the morning and planning what you’re going to way becomes a hassle — one that many would prefer not to deal with in the morning when you have plenty of other things you need to think about. 
in my second year of college, what’s the answer to what i’m going to wear most days? sweats. 
stressed today? sweats. 
have a test today? sweats. 
have a presentation today? sweats. 
they’ve basically become my answer for ev­erything these days — but is that such a bad thing? 
sure, some days i would like to feel prepared and ready to tackle the day by dressing up. however, some days after studying for anatomy and writing yet another paper for english in the early morning hours, waking up for class on days like this i often just want to be comfortable and throw on my beloved sweatpants. 
i myself feel there is something behind dress­ing for success and dressing for the job you want, not the job you have — but currently, we’re students. we’re stressed. we work hard. dressing comfortably as a student to keep from driving yourself insane while you’re working for you degree so you can actually get a job is defi­nitely okay. we can dress for success after we earn our degrees. 
for now, i am not ashamed to wear my sweat­pants, and you shouldn’t be either. 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

parietals, an honest proposal 
Charlie Ducey 
english, channeled 
so, this month someone finally worked up the gall to criticize parietals — in writing no less. it’s about time someone did. it’s not as though that’s been done before, even behind closed doors. no. Making fun of parietals is an unheard of and he­roic feat, nay, a saintly feat, to stand up against the oppressive idea that maybe only one person should sleep in an already-cramped modular bed on any given night. shame on those oppressive administrators and overweening churchmen de­stroying gender relations by insisting that non­residents must actually leave residents’ rooms and halls at a certain hour. and what a profound point those lofty authors made in noting notre dame’s sordid sexual health report in a ranking sponsored by trojan, because as a catholic insti­tution, our lady’s university really should pay heed to the judgements of a condom brand. it’s not as though notre dame has any legitimate rea­sons to keep parietals in place, especially in the face of sexual assault for which it isn’t the least bit helpful to have ras remaining vigilant about who’s in whose room after hours. and if they did have such reasons, they wouldn’t require any sus­tained thought or investigation. let’s just keep making fun of them through whispered comments and inept satire. throw in a few swipes at conser­vative student consciousness in general and call it good. 
but let’s be honest with ourselves here. the “decriminalize parietals” article in the april 1 edition of the observer was, mostly, a joke. it also wasn’t really satire, for the record. the whole point of satire à la Jonathan swift’s “a Modest proposal” is to consistently say the opposite of what you mean, employing various rhetorical de­vices to diagnose and suggest a remedy for a so­cial issue. come to think of it, i don’t really know what the article is trying to say. it’s told from the point of view of students who support parietals but nonetheless concede that parietals should be abolished. so, are they ironizing the position that parietals should be maintained or that they should be abolished? Maybe both? 
what’s missing from this alleged satire is any proposed solution, aside from the unstated in­sinuation that male and female dorms should enforce parietals equally, which sounds rather reasonable to me. in the absence of such a sugges­tion, though, the article functions not as satire, but parody, which comically exaggerates a par­ticular form of writing, in this case the pleading and alarmist op-ed. by bringing attention to the parietals dilemma, this parody does strike me as worthwhile and effective, even if it’s not particu­larly edifying. 

people like to complain about notre dame hav­ing a gender relations problem. sure it does. but so does essentially every other american univer­sity. parietals is by no means to blame for this. rather, as per my coy suggestions above, issues with collegiate gender relations have more to do with a lack of “sustained thought or investiga­tion.” i’m not necessarily prescribing philosophi­cal analysis so much as a personal questioning of what we really want and what we are made for. 
the recent apostolic exhortation “amoris lætitia” has much to say in this respect. in the post-synod document, pope francis discusses something that only ever seems to receive super­ficial and unrealistic treatment in american pop culture: love. 
this is not the empty “love” found in the lyr­ics of most top 40s hits. this is love grounded in relationships seen paradigmatically in Jesus’s ministry and in the life of the family, a love which the pope describes as the word of god, which “is not a series of abstract ideas but rather a source of comfort and companionship for every family that experiences difficulties or suffering.” 
comfort. companionship. is that what people seek when “spending a night” (as our original par­ody puts it) in another’s modular — and i do em­phasize — cramped bed, with or without socks? if so, do they get what they’re looking for? is this the paragon of love right then and there, if love is even involved? 
i’m not an authority on the answers to these questions. but they’re questions that we should ask ourselves rather than simply sliding along with prevailing yet unexamined cultural tail­winds rife with false liberation and mindless hedonism—the sort of forces that say “if it feels good it is good” and see individuals as isolated and separate buyers ready for transactions, mon­etary or otherwise. parietals serve as a boundary that some must be wary of and consciously cross before other boundaries are overstepped. such a boundary might well allow time for such ques­tioning and honest considerations. 
Charlie Ducey is a senior studying the languages of 
G. K. Chesterton (English) and Edith Stein (German). Please contact him with questions, comments, complaints, appraisals, invitations, prognostications and prestidigitations at cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 

Mr. President, you are not a king 
Jordan Ryan 
words of wisdome 
last week, president barack obama announced he had granted commutations to 61 inmates serving sentences for a variety of crimes, including firearms crimes, drug trafficking and conspiracy or intent to distribute substantial amounts of cocaine. one-third of those whose sentences were commuted had been sentenced to life in prison. 
these most recent actions bring obama’s total commutations to 248 since taking office, a number which the white house proudly announced was more than the past six presidents combined. he has thus far commuted 92 life sentences. the president has reaffirmed his commitment to clemency as his administration continues its review of another 9,115 pending petitions from convicted criminals. 
though the pardon clause of the constitution em­powers the president to grant clemency, obama’s actions last week reflect a broader inclination of the white house to take steps to subvert those laws which he believes to be contrary to his personal be­liefs. unfortunately, obama’s continued undermin­ing of federal sentencing laws are consistent with his now-established pattern of refusing to uphold any laws with which he personally disagrees. obama’s conduct has doubtlessly increased the political po­larization in washington and has served to further undermine america’s confidence in the presidency. 
article 2 of the united states constitution could not be clearer. in confirming that even the president is not above the bedrock principle of the primacy of the rule of law, article 2 requires that the president “shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed.” the president simply cannot violate the separation of powers and usurp the obligation of congress to create laws. while the president can certainly point out the unjust results of those laws with which he dis­agrees, he is not free to ignore his obligation to follow and enforce them. unfortunately, obama has taken presidential discretion to a new level by implement­ing laws never passed by congress and, in effect, repealing those laws (such as sentencing guidelines) with which he disagrees. while his actions in com­muting the sentences of a record number of convict­ed criminals concededly has a constitutional basis, obama’s actions nonetheless further demonstrate this administration’s disrespect for the rule of law and the constitution. 
the administration’s refusal to enforce the defense of Marriage act (doMa) is a perfect example. though lawfully enacted, in 2012, then-attorney general eric holder announced that the administration had unilaterally concluded doMa violated the fifth amendment’s equal protection guarantee as applied to same-sex couples proclaiming that “the president has concluded that given a number of factors, includ­ing a documented history of discrimination, clas­sifications based on sexual orientation should be subject to a more heightened standard of scrutiny.” rather than faithfully executing the laws, holder announced that, “the president has also concluded that [doMa] as applied to legally married same-sex couples fails to meet that standard and is therefore unconstitutional.” 
the obama administration has followed a similar path in its handling of undocumented immigrants. in a 100-page report, the obama administration’s task force on 21st century policing recommended that the department of homeland security “decouple fed­eral immigration enforcement from routine local po­licing for civil enforcement and non-serious crime.” in effect, the administration unilaterally made the decision to ignore federal law and direct immigration officials to defer deportation proceedings against as many as an estimated 1.7 million illegal aliens. ironically, a year before issuing the directive that the law be ignored, obama, in promoting the enactment of the dream act, acknowledged that, “the president doesn’t have the authority to simply ignore congress and say, ‘we’re not going to enforce the laws you’ve passed.’” it was only when congress would not de­liver his legislative agenda that obama shifted direc­tions and ordered the implementation of what is, in effect, an amnesty scheme for illegal aliens that lacks congressional approval. 

unfortunately, the obama administration will leave a legacy of action more consistent with a mon­arch rather than a president confined by constitu­tional boundaries. obama may well want to change the sentencing guidelines, the defense of Marriage act, the federal immigration laws, drug enforce­ment laws (particularly as applied to marijuana), the federal minimum wage laws, or a host of other federal statutory schemes. however, merely because congress refuses to follow his legislative agenda does not empower he and his administration to ignore the constitution and create laws on their own or change laws by refusing to enforce them. under the constitution, congress is charged with enacting laws and it is the obligation of the executive to enforce the law as enacted. obama has repeatedly proven that he wants to act as a legislator as well as an executive. 
Mr. president, you are not a king. please respect the constitutionally-required checks on your power. 
Jordan Ryan, a sophomore resident of Lyons Hall,  studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business  economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
irish peace of Mind week 
through our work with naMi-nd, notre dame’s chap­ter of the national alliance on Mental illness, we have each had the privilege to hear the stories of members of the notre dame community and to engage in conversa­tion about the important issues of mental illness, mental health and mental wellbeing. we have heard inspiring stories of hope and resilience. we have also heard stories of frustration and pain. we know many members of this community feel as though they are the “only one” — the only one struggling with anxiety or depression, the only one feeling inadequate, the only one afraid. we know many members of this community feel pressure — pres­sure to be perfect, pressure to be (over)involved, pressure to succeed, or at least not to fail, pressure to “have it all together.” 
the notre dame community unites during the first full week of october each year to recognize irish state of Mind: Mental illness awareness week. irish state of Mind, organized by naMi-nd, seeks to illuminate the mind by raising awareness and reducing the stigma of mental illness. this week, naMi-nd will hold the first annual irish peace of Mind: Mental well-being awareness week. this counterpart week seeks to re­juvenate the mind through events and conversations focused on mental health, defined by the world health organization as “a state of wellbeing in which every in­dividual realizes his or her own potential, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to her or his community.” 
throughout irish peace of Mind, we encourage you to be open to the possibility of growth, hope, and peace. ask your friends how they are feeling, and when they ask you the same in return, respond honestly. consider the notion that everyone has mental health, and that there is more to life than simply “surviving.” take a break from your busy schedule and actually take a break. engage in dialogue about issues related to mental health. learn about and then utilize the amazing health and wellbeing resources available at notre dame. and remember – we are meant to do more than simply survive. 
we are meant to flourish. We encourage you to like “Irish Peace of MiND” on Facebook to view our schedule of events and obtain the most updated information about the week. 
Maggie Skoch 
naMi-nd president 2015-2016 
Lily Falzon 

naMi-nd co-Vice president 2016-2017 
Ally Zimmer 
naMi-nd president 2016-2017 
Jenna Wertsching 
naMi-nd secretary 2016-2017 
Laura LeBrun 
naMi-nd treasurer 2015-2016 
Julia Kim 

naMi-nd Vice president 2015-2016 
Taylor Seeman 
naMi-nd secretary 2015-2016 
Shannon Hennessey 

naMi-nd webmaster 2015-2016 
Trinh Nguyen 

naMi-nd president spring 2016 april 10 

the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 
the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 


By NORA  McGREEVY 
scene writer 
“welcome to notre dame! i’ll be your tour guide for the day …” 
these are words familiar to nearly every student at notre dame, or at least anyone who’s ever taken a traditional tour of campus. yet in the 10th annual production of loyal daughters and sons, this casual, cookie-cutter tour guide in­troduction took on new meaning. 
like previous years, the show consisted of student actors performing anonymous monologues submitted by mem­bers of the notre dame community. the monologues were structured, however, as a metaphorical tour of notre dame’s campus — in effect, a tour of the complicated opinions and stories that the notre dame community has to share about gender issues, gender identity, sexuality and sexual assault on campus. the “tour guide,” played by william dean Merriweather iii, bridged the gaps between monologues by walking around stage and pointing out an imaginary Main building or lafortune student center. 
according to skyler hughes, a co-executive producer of the show, the “tour” format carried an explicit intention: “our thinking was to make [the show] real for the people view­ing it. this happens here. pointing out places that everyone knows makes that clear — these are notre dame stories.” 
this stylistic choice by the producers perfectly comple­mented its 2016 theme, “what’s next?,” by framing the monologues in a logical and notre dame-specific format in which to discuss the future of gender relations at the university. in its 10th year, the loyal daughters and sons production sought to focus not only on raising awareness of the many issues concerning gender and gender relations at notre dame, but also to inspire action on the part of the 
By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene writer 
if you have a netflix account, chances are that, starting next month, you’re going to be paying more to keep satis­fying your media streaming addiction. netflix announced an initial price increase back in 2014, but allowed old plans to be grandfathered in for two years before being switched over to the new price ($8.99, or one dollar more). that grandfathering period ends next month. in a move that was simultaneously savvy and sneaky, netflix once again raised the price of their service (by another dollar) last october. that means that if you subscribed to netflix before May of 2014, you are going to go from paying $7.99 per month to $9.99 per month. 
chances are that learning about the 25 percent price increase, or an extra $24 every year, didn’t upset you too much. especially not when you compare that new month­ly rate to the average price of a cable bill in 2015: $99.10. $100! per Month! $100 can get you an amazon prime ac­count for an entire year. 
perhaps even more surprising is the fact that the aver­age cable bill has increased by 39 percent since 2010. that means that in spite of the rising popularity of streaming services and digital video recorders, cable companies are still looking to bolster profits. it’s hard to believe they can keep that up, especially when the number of subscribers has fallen every year this decade. 
notre dame community to address these issues. as stated in the program, “we wanted to recognize the progress that has been made over the past 10 years. … now, we as a commu­nity have to figure out how to act.” 
some of the monologues also focused explicitly on this question of action. for example, “all or nothing,” performed by natasia buckley, detailed the story of a young woman un­dergoing the title iX process for reporting a sexual assault. as the title suggests, she felt that she had too few options when it came to legal options after the assault. she could either take her reported case to trial, where, if found guilty, her attacker would lose his athletic scholarship and be forced to leave the university for a year, or she could drop the charges as though the assault had never occurred. the monologue had clear implications for university policy, asking for a middle ground between “all” or “nothing” when it comes to report­ing sexual assault to the authorities. 
other monologues delivered a range of voices, stories and points of view. in “single,” Joe crowley and Maddie thompson played an engaged couple sharing their personal reasons for remaining abstinent until marriage as well as defending a traditional patriarchal family structure. in “the script,” a young man lamented the debilitating and alien­ating effects of campus hookup culture: “i took her virgin­ity, and now we’re facebook friends,” he wryly noted. other monologues explored the subtleties of victim blaming, the psychological trauma of rape and sexual assault and the complexities of consent. each story was articulated power­fully by the talented actors, whose voices served as an effec­tive conduit for the true and often emotionally-raw stories. 
the set itself was simple, a clean stage save for one blue chair and one pink chair, a hint at the traditional gender bi­nary which featured largely in many of the monologues. as director anthony Murphy noted, in this minimalist theme, 
cable companies argue that more channels help justify the cost, but most people only watch a small fraction of the channels that they pay for. in 2010, the average house­hold watched 17.8 channels out of the 151 provided, and by 2013 those numbers had changed to 17.5 and 189, re­spectively. cable companies are offering more channels even as audiences are watching less — clearly there is a growing gap between customers and providers. 
those providers also believe the quality of cable pro­gramming is worth the hefty price tag. as amazon and netflix produce increasing quantities of top-notch pro­gramming, though, it gets harder and harder to buy that excuse. amazon’s “transparent” and “catastrophe” and netflix’s “Master of none” and “boJack horseman” have all been heaped with critical praise, and those aren’t even the most popular shows available to stream. in other words, viewership doesn’t necessarily represent quality. 
even if it did, though, is it worth paying $100 every month for the honor of getting only 45 minutes of show for every hour you spend watching television? is it worth paying $25 a month just to watch commercials? if you’re paying for cable, there’s a good chance that you are. a nielsen study found that from 2009 to 2013, the amount of time per hour devoted to commercials on cable networks increased from an already frustrating 14 minutes and 27 seconds to an absurd 15 minutes and 38 seconds. there’s a reason that fewer and fewer young people are signing up for cable. 

“everything has a purpose.” the bare set allowed the content of the monologues to shine. 
yet in contrast its minimalist production aesthetic, the is­sues that loyal daughters and sons dealt with were extreme­ly complex. the question of “what’s next?” is not one that is easily answered. this manifested clearly during the panel discussion following saturday’s show, when a representa­tive panel of notre dame community members composed of moderator Kelsey woodford, dr. elizabeth Mcclintock, director anthony Murphy, former student body president brian ricketts, executive producer skyler hughes and sexual assault policy advocate grace watkins discussed questions raised by the show. the resulting discussion raised a myri­ad of difficult concepts: when we try to formulate a middle ground for victims reporting sexual assault, does this put un­due responsibility or social pressure on the victim to decide their perpetrator’s fate? could integrated dorms be a solu­tion to double standards between men and women’s dorms? how do we teach our students safe sex, when the dulac handbook essentially outlaws sex in the first place? 
all that being said, moderator Kelly woodford closed with a quote from the show’s founder, emily weisbecker farley. she offered one obvious action that each member of notre dame’s community can take immediately: self-reflection. “what can you do personally?” she asks. “do you step in or speak up when you see something that isn’t right?” the panel ended on the note of an urgent and important ques­tion: “how do you want to leave your mark on notre dame?” the tone of this question effectively embodied the message of this 10th production of loyal daughters and sons, a call for personal action that ultimately spills over into communal action. 
Contact Nora McGreevy at nmcgreev@nd.edu 
only 46 percent of people age 18-36 have cable, as op­posed to 63 percent of men and women 68 and older, and i would hazard a guess that that number is going to con­tinue to shrink as millennials refuse to sign up once they have a place of their own. 
cable is dying, both literally and figuratively. for that same age group, 18-36, almost as many adults have netflix (around 43 percent), whereas only 13 percent of people in the highest age group have the los gatos, california­based streaming service. essentially, most of the people who have cable today have it because they have always had it. as kids who were raised with netflix grow up, they are more likely to question what cable offers that stream­ing services don’t. that doubt will save them a lot of mon­ey — for now. it seems unlikely that cable can survive in the long term with their current pricing model. at some point in the future, one of two things is going to happen: either cable is going to lower its prices to compete and the number of channels (and thus shows) will drop, hurting competition, or cable will go extinct and streaming ser­vices will become the new cable — the next media source de rigueur. 
if, and i believe when, cable fades away, it will be inter­esting to see whether streaming services keep their com­petitive price points, or if they just take cable’s place on the throne of overpriced tV. 
Contact Matthew Macke at mmacke@nd.edu 
LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shortZ 
JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 

FLING BY SPRING | riley Mccurrie 



SUDOKU | the MephaM group 

published Monday through friday, the observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the notre dame and saint Mary’s community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found the observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive the observer in your home. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia last 
Happy Birthday: your charm and enthusiasm will help you gain popularity and get what you want. contracts, agreements and money matters are favored and will encourage you to make simple but strategic moves upward. love is in the stars, and passion will take priority. work to bring about positive changes in your personal life and long-term future. look for greater stability. your numbers are 7, 12, 19, 24, 29, 36, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you’ll send the wrong message if you are inconsistent. do your gambling in private, and hold on to your thoughts until you are ready to present a precise picture of what you plan to do next. romance will lead to something special. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): participate in events that will give you insight into the cultures and philosophies that interests you. strive for equality and friendship, and share what you have to offer with others. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): follow through with your plans and don’t trust someone else’s judgment over your own. you have what it takes to sell your ideas and work up a deal. plan to celebrate with someone you love or pursue a new romantic relationship. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): don’t be befuddled by someone’s inconsistent attention. Keep busy with projects that will improve your surroundings and help you develop a unique blend of comfort and convenience at your home. an unexpected visitor will give you something to think about. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): get involved in an activity or attend an event or retreat that will broaden your outlook and help you explore alternative ways to enjoy life. romance will improve your outlook and an important relationship. share feelings and make plans. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): take precautions when dealing with emotional matters. someone will put demands on you or add to your responsibilities. avoid getting involved in something that you don’t agree with. look for alternative way to cut costs and improve your income. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): take a day trip. get out and venture into territory you haven’t seen before. Make a point to have fun, make new friends and include romance in your plans. physical fitness, primping and looking your best will make you feel good. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): pursue a move to larger quarters or try to find ways to gain more room through renovations. having a major garage sale will help you make room for creative projects that you want to pursue. stay within your budget. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t miss out on all the fun because you have overdone it with food, drink or physical challenges. Keep on your toes, pace yourself and be ready to entertain and impress someone you love. Make romance your top priority. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ignore things that annoy you. you’ll have a great idea for a change you can make at home that will bring back memories and lead to reuniting with old friends. you can entertain suggestions, but don’t overspend. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): getting back to the things you used to enjoy will open your mind to new beginnings. reconnect with an old friend or make special plans for yourself and someone you love. share your ideas and you’ll get valuable input. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): being a follower will lead to trouble. indulgent pastimes and people who are not trustworthy must be kept at arms’ length. don’t let an emotional situation lead to a precarious altercation. be smart and stick close to your friends. 

Birthday Baby: you are pioneering, skillful and trendsetting. you are intense and goal-oriented. 
JUMBLE | daVid hoyt and Jeff KnureK 

to
 receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable and mail to: the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 



enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 



name 
address 

city     state Zip 

ndsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | the obserVer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 
Red Wings retain consistency 

Hunter McDaniel 
sports writer 
the streak continues for at least one more year. 
thanks to ottawa’s 6-1 drubbing of the bruins in boston saturday afternoon, the detroit red wings find themselves in the playoffs for the 25th consecutive season, the longest active streak in any of the four major profes­sional sports in this country. 
even though the red wings did their best at the end of the year to break the streak with back-to-back losses, they found a way into the playoffs yet again, and it says a lot about the franchise. 
in an era of expansion, rule changes and increased parity, only detroit has continued playing top-level hockey year in and year out. 
over the past 25 seasons, the red wings haven’t just been good, either. with four stanley cups and two other appearances in the finals, they’ve been great. 
what makes the wings’ run even more amazing is just how terrible they were before it. they made the playoffs just twice from 1967 to 1983, a stretch in which they had 14 differ­ent head coaches, before drafting the likes of steve yzerman, sergei federov, darren Mccarty and nicklas lidstrom in the 1980s and early 1990s to begin the turn around. 
and considering the last time the team had a top­10 draft selection was 1991 
— and that pick, Martin lapointe, has been retired since 2008 — the way the red wings have been able to remain competitive is al­most hard to believe. when you think about how many teams intentionally enter rebuilding periods in or­der to draft top-tier talent, detroit’s staying power is even more impressive. they continue to draw talent from lower rounds in the draft – as in 1998 sixth-round pick pavel datsyuk and 1999 seventh-round pick henrik Zetterberg. 
now, i’m one of those people who thinks a season is only memorable if you win your last game of the year, hoisting your sport’s trophy while the rest of the field watches with envy. 
however, a streak like this deserves respect, even if the team has settled for little more than mediocrity — by its own standards — recent­ly. the wings clearly haven’t been at their best over the past five or six seasons, only making it out of the first round twice since falling to pittsburgh in the 2009 stanley cup finals. 
plus, with datsyuk now strongly considering retire­ment and Zetterberg not far behind him, a new era will be starting in detroit. the franchise has a new and un­proven leader in first-year head coach Jeff blashill, and a younger team built around dylan larkin will soon take the reins. 
they now sit a mere four more playoff appearances away from tying the all-time record set by the bruins at 29 consecutive seasons. if they are to make it, they will need a good amount of luck and some more help from the rest of the league. 
regardless, reaching the 25-year milestone forces us to take a look back and ap­preciate such dominance. to put the craziness of such a streak in perspective, con­sider this. larkin, detroit’s leading scorer this season, was still six years away from being born the last time the team missed the playoffs. 
but with all the changes that have happened in the last 25 years in the nhl, ranging from three lockouts to the creation of nine new expansion teams and con­ference realignment, one thing has remained con­stant: the red wings clinch­ing their spot in the playoffs. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at  hmcdani1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

PGA GOLF | the Masters 

willett wins the Masters after spieth collapses 
Associated Press 
augusta, ga. — Jordan spieth couldn’t bear to watch, turning his head be­fore another shot splashed into rae’s creek. Moments later, danny willett looked up at the large leader-board at the 15th green and couldn’t believe what he saw. 
this Masters turned into a shocker sunday, right down to the green jacket ceremony. 
spieth was in butler cabin, just like everyone expected when he took a five-shot lead to the back nine at augusta national. only he was there to present it to willett, who seized on spieth’s collapse with a magnificent round that made him a Masters champion. 
“you dream about these kind of days and things like that, but for them to happen ... it’s still mind-boggling,” willett said. 
it was a nightmare for spieth, especially the par-3 12th hole. clinging to a one-shot lead, he put two shots into the water and made a quadruple-bogey 7, fall­ing three shots behind and never catching up. instead of making history with an­other wire-to-wire victory, he joined a sad list of play­ers who threw the Masters away. 
“big picture? this one will hurt,” spieth said. 
it was a comeback that ranks among the most un­likely in the 80 years of the Masters on so many levels. 
willett wasn’t even sure he would play this year be­cause his wife was due — on sunday, no less — with their first child. she gave birth to Zachariah James on March 30, sending him on his amazing journey to his first major. 
“we talk about fate, talk about everything else that goes with it,” willett said. “it’s just a crazy, crazy week.” 
he became the first play­er from england in a green jacket since nick faldo in 1996, and the parallels are 

FOR SALE 
Bible For Sale: First Catholic Bible Printed in America by Mathew Carey, 1790. Very Rare. Full Brown Leather. Good Condition. Approximately 45 known copies. $30,000. Call for de­tails. 207-299-3962 

bizarre. faldo shot a 5-under 67 and overcame a six-shot deficit when greg norman collapsed around amen corner. willett also closed with a 67, with no bogeys on his card, to match the best score of the weekend. 
the most compelling im­ages came from the guy who suffered. 
coming off two straight bogeys to start the back nine, spieth still had the lead when he went at the flag with a 9-iron on the par-3 12th and saw it bounce off the slope into the water. from the drop zone, he hit a wedge so fat that he turned his head and removed his cap, not wanting to look. he got up-and-down from the back bunker, and suddenly faced a three-shot deficit. 
“i actually heard every­one grunting and moaning or whatever they do to the scoreboard when the scores go up,” willett said. “he ob­viously had a terrible run, which basically put it right back in anyone’s hands. and fortunately enough, i was able to seize the opportunities.” 
he finished at 5-under 283 for a three-shot victory over spieth and lee westwood (69). 
spieth was trying to be­come only the fourth back-to-back winner of the Masters, and the first player in 156 years of champion­ship golf to go wire-to-wire in successive years in a ma­jor. and it looked inevitable when he ran off four straight birdies to end the front nine and build a five-shot lead. 
this didn’t look like one of those Masters that would start on the back nine sunday. 
but it did — quickly. 

spieth made bogey from the bunker on no. 10. a tee shot into the trees on the 11th, missing an 8-foot par putt. he still had a two-shot lead and only needed to get past the dangerous par-3 12th to settle himself, es­pecially with two par 5s in front of him. but he couldn’t. not even close. 
“it was a lack of discipline to hit it over the bunker coming off two bogeys, in­stead of recognizing i was still leading the Masters,” spieth said. 
the turnaround left him dazed. 
spieth was five shots ahead on the 10th tee and three shots behind when he walked to the 13th tee. 
“it was a really tough 30 minutes for me that hope­fully i never experience again,” spieth said. 
willett poured it on with a shot into the 14th to about 4 feet, and a tee shot on the par-3 16th to 7 feet for a bird­ie that stretched his lead. spieth still had a chance when he birdied both par 5s to get within two shots, and then hit his tee shot to 8 feet behind the hole on the 16th. but he missed the birdie putt, and when he hit into a bunker and failed to save par on the 17th, it was over. 
spieth had led after sev­en straight rounds at the Masters, a streak that ended in a most cruel fashion. he shot 41 on the back nine for a 73, and was runner-up for the second time in three years. 
westwood, playing with willett, made eagle on the 15th hole to get within one shot of the lead, and then three-putted the 16th hole to fall away. 
dustin Johnson also had an outside chance, even af­ter four putts for a double bogey on the fifth hole. he missed eagle putts from 15 feet and 20 feet on the par 5s on the back nine, and then took double bogey on the 17th. Johnson closed with a 71 and tied for fourth with paul casey (67) and J.b. holmes (68). 
smylie Kaufman, one shot out of the lead in his Masters debut, closed with an 81. 
willett moves to no. 9 in the world. he returns home to england with a gift like no other for his infant son. 
“people were saying, ‘try to bring the jacket home for little man.’ i think it’s a lit­tle bit big,” willet said. “but i’m sure in a few years’ time he’ll grow into it.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANTED  as our live-in nanny. Email: info  
@greymattersintl.com  
TRIPLE DOMER NEEDS NANNY­ 
-SUMMER ONLY, P/T, or F/T: ND  Need  a  babysitter  for  Sep  
family needs an energetic, outdoor­ 9th  eve  when  Domer  fam­ 
loving, reliable gal to travel to beau­ ily in for a football weekend. Contact  
tiful Jackson Hole WY from end  info@greymattersintl.com  
of May/early June to early August  


the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 


SMC TENNIS | hope 9, sMc 0; sMc 8, north central 1 

Belles split homestand over the weekend 
By ALEX ELLYIN 
sports writer 
saint Mary’s suffered its first conference loss of the season saturday against hope, falling in each of its matches for a final score of 9-0. 
the no. 3 doubles match was the most closely-contest­ed match of the day for the belles (9-5, 1-1 Miaa), as senior andrea fetters and junior Kaity Venters lost in a tiebreak, 9-8 (7­4). sophomore Maddie Minaudo nearly pulled off a win at no. 5 singles, as she also came up just short in a second set tiebreak in a 6-3, 7-6 (7-3) defeat. 
the flying dutch (8-4, 2-0) are the five-time defending conference regular season and tournament champions, so win­ning matches against hope is no easy task, belles head coach dale campbell said. 
“we were really close at no. 3 doubles and also really close at no. 5 singles with Maddie Minaudo,” campbell said. “i definitely take those as posi­tives. this is probably the strongest team in our confer­ence, so we have to keep that in perspective. even in a loss, we are battling better, point by point.” 
fetters, a second-team all-Miaa performer and co-cap­tain, also competed at no. 1 singles, but lost 6-2, 6-2. at no. 2 singles, freshman Monica davy fell in straight sets, losing 6-3, 6-2. Junior sam setterblad and Venters were both defeated at no. 3 and no. 6 singles, re­spectively, by a score of 6-1, 6-0. senior co-captain Margaret faller also lost at no. 4 singles, falling by a score of 6-3, 6-1. 
the no. 1 doubles team of setterblad and davy fell 8-1, while Minaudo and faller were defeated 8-4 at no. 2 doubles. 
the belles are less than a month away from the confer­ence tournament, and campbell said he realizes the team has to improve in certain areas. 
“we have to make less mis­takes on our volleys,” he said. “we had some opportuni­ties at net, and didn’t convert. however, we still need to work more on our serves and return of serves, as those are the two most important shots.” 
saint Mary’s got a chance to rebound from this defeat when north central came to take on the belles at south bend racquet club. the cardinals (11-6, 4-3 cciw) had won six consecutive matches and haven’t lost more than three points during their streak. campbell said his team was ready for the challenge and the chance to break even for the weekend prior to the match. 
“we will just have to talk about how it will be a new day and a completely different op­ponent,” he said. “this is a non-conference match, and more important that we just take one match at a time, and continue to improve.” 
the belles had yet to lose con­secutive matches on the season, as they are 3-0 following defeats coming into the match, and they continued this trend, defeating the cardinals decisively, 8-1. 
fetters led the charge for the belles, winning at no. 1 singles in a 3-set match, 6-3, 1-6, 1-0 (10­8), and teaming up with Venters at no. 3 doubles, where they won 9-7. davy won a first set tie­break and rolled in the second set on her way to a 7-6 (8-6), 6-3 win at no. 2 singles. faller won at no. 4 singles in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3, while Minaudo only lost 2 games in her match at 
paid adVertiseMent 
no. 5 singles, winning 6-1, 6-1. freshman elizabeth preister won her first match of the week­end, 6-1, 7-5, at no. 6 singles. setterblad dropped the only point for the belles in the match, falling 6-1, 6-2 at no. 3 singles. 
davy and setterblad defeated the no. 1 doubles team of north central by a score of 8-6, while faller and Minaudo capped off the doubles sweep with an 8-3 victory at no. 2. doubles. 
following the meet against north central, saint Mary’s will travel to angola, indiana, to take on the trine on tuesday in the belles’ third conference match of the season. the thunder (3-8, 0-2 Miaa) are coming off back-to-back 8-1 defeats at the hands of conference foes adrian and albion. 
the belles and thunder will face off at 4 p.m. tuesday at Keith e. busse/steel dynamics athletic and recreation center. 
Contact Alex Ellyin at  aellyin@nd.edu 

paid adVertiseMent paid adVertiseMent 




the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 


M Lacrosse 
continued froM page 20 
defending him, realizing the things that he can do that no one else can do, that’s crucial, and the same thing goes for [blue devils senior midfielder deemer class] or for [junior midfielder Jack bruckner] on the inside, who i think is really effective.” 
Jones, who was selected number one overall in the 2016 Major league lacrosse draft, was held to just one assist. class was also held to just one score despite averaging 2.92 goals per game on the season. the na­tion’s second most-potent of­fense, which averages 14.5 goals per game, went on a 16-minute scoring drought from the start of the third to the end of the fourth quarters, which helped notre dame catapult past duke in the second half. 
Junior goalie shane doss made several key saves late in the game to keep the irish ahead in the last five minutes. with a minute and a half left and up by one score, Jones made a pass out to class, who shot the ball towards the up­per right corner of the cage. but doss was quick enough to make the pivotal save to keep the irish in front. 
“you saw early in the game, their second or third — it was a tic-tac-toe kind of goal — four passes in a second and a half and there’s a guy on the back side by himself,” corrigan said. “that’s not anymore the guy on the ball’s fault than it is to his credit when some­thing like that doesn’t happen. that’s about three or four guys working really well together, communicating, making good decisions. that was an impres­sive group. [irish freshman midfielder drew schantz] and [sophomore midfielder John sexton] did play really well, but you don’t stop Myles Jones with anybody. or deemer class ei­ther, for that matter. he’s a ter­rific player too.” 
in addition to minimizing two of duke’s most danger­ous offensive players, notre dame’s defense caused 10 of duke’s 23 turnovers. while it took the offense some time to adjust and get on the score board, corrigan acknowledged the victory as an important win in front the record-setting 5,000 fans at arlotta stadium. however, moving forward, he said he would like to see the team clean up some of its mis­cues that occurred sunday. 
“we played so well and so clean last week, i thought last week was as well as we’ve handled the ball all year eas­ily, but then we come out here and mishandle the ball ter­ribly,” corrigan said. “really, even halfway through the third quarter we were still fumbling the ball around, throwing pass­es to guys’ ankles or over their heads. it’s frustrating because you just don’t expect it from a team this deep in the season who have been playing as well as we have been.” 
the irish will have two more opportunities to polish their play before competing in the acc tournament at the end of the month. notre dame will play its final home game of the regular season wednesday against Marquette at 4 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
FENCING | Junior world chaMpionships 

Massialas captures title at world championships 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame saw one of its own take home a gold medal last week, as freshman foilist sabrina Massialas won six consecutive bouts to cap­ture the title at the fie Junior world championships in bourges, france. 
when the competition be­gan, Massialas drew ana toldo, a brazilian who took first place in the foil at the pan american champion­ships in cancun, Mexico, ear­lier this year. Massialas was able to control the 15-touch bout and win before time ex­pired, 15-7. 
in the round of 32, Massialas squared off with ying cao, a canadian foilist who ranks in the top 50 in the fie’s under-20 class and top 30 in its under-17 class. Massialas’ victory ultimately proved to be her most deci­sive of the tournament, as she defeated cao by a score of 15-5. 
M Tennis 
continued froM page 20 
defeated north carolina’s team of junior ronnie schneider and freshman anu Kodali, 6-4. 
after taking a 1-0 lead, the irish built on their momen­tum when Monaghan defeat­ed schnur in a back-and-forth, three-set match on court no. 1, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. broadus kept the irish rolling in yet another tight three-set match on court no. 6, ultimately capturing the victory — despite dropping the first set — by a score of 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. down 3-0, north carolina refused to go down easily, as schneider defeated hagar in two tiebreaker sets on court no. 2, 7-6(6), 7-6(5), earning the tar heels their first point of the match. 
however, lawson respond­ed for the irish, clinching a notre dame victory when he bested Kelly, 6-4, 6-7(5), 7-6(6), on court no. 4. the three-set victory, which featured two tiebreaks, was not easy for lawson because of the level of his opponent, he said. 
“it was a battle,” lawson said. “the guy i was playing, robert Kelly, is a great com­petitor who has been in a lot of battles before. i just told my­self to stick with it and not take my foot the gas, and i won the points when it mattered most.” 
lawson said he could not imagine a better way to cel­ebrate his senior day, but he was sure to keep his focus on the future. 
tied at 13-13. once again, Massialas landed the decid­ing touch to give her another 14-13 victory and push her into the championship. 
the finals pitted the acc champion against the fie’s top-ranked u-20 foilist, italy’s erica cipressa. the reign­ing european u-20 cham­pionships winner defeated poland’s Martyna dlugosz in her semifinal bout to ad­vance to the finals. despite having to go to overtime in her previous two bouts, Massialas was able to remain strong and defeat cipressa in regulation, 15-9, to capture the gold medal. 
the san francisco native’s title came just one week after she finished in third place in the women’s foil at the ncaa championships, earning her first-team all-american hon­ors. she subsequently round­ed out her strong freshman campaign by being named the acc women’s fencer of the year in foil March 31. 

following her win over cao, Massialas proceeded to duel italy’s elisabetta bianchin, who was the defending Junior world champion and the no. 5 foilist in fie’s u-20 class rankings. despite bianchin’s high ranking, Massialas found her way to a 15-6 victory. 
next up for the irish fresh­man was the quarterfinals, where she competed against russia’s Marta Martyanova, the no. 2 women’s foilist in fie’s u-20 rankings. Martyanova jumped out to a commanding 11-3 lead, but Massialas was able to come­back and tie the score at 13-13 to force an overtime period. then, with 3.9 seconds left in the extra time, Massialas landed the winning touch to give her the 14-13 win. 
Massialas found herself in an almost identically-tight, overtime bout in the semifi­nals. Just as in the previous round, she and china’s yiting fu went into the extra period 
“beating carolina was amazing,” lawson said. “you can’t ask for anything better than that. of course, we still have a few more matches, and we’ll look to continue the mo­mentum and see how far we can carry it into the acc tour­nament and then the ncaa tournament.” 
having already clinched the win, the irish split the fi­nal two points with the tar heels when senior Kenneth sabacinski topped Kodali on court no. 5, 6-2, 4-6, 7-6(10), but covalschi fell to clark on court no. 3, 6-7(2), 7-5, 6-2, bringing the final score to 5-2 in favor of the irish. 
notre dame got its wins friday in tight matches, and irish coach ryan sachire said he was proud of the way his team played in big moments. 
“you expect that everything is going to be tough, and nothing is going to be easy,” sachrie said. “that’s the way high-level college tennis is. we did a great job in the big moments of not getting dis­couraged and having the courage to play aggressively, and because of that, we came out on top.” 
as for what made the up­set possible, sachire said it was consistency rather than any dramatic changes for his team. 
“honestly, it was the op­posite of change that gave us the chance to win,” sachire said. “that was the first time we had good health in a long time, so continuity was key for us. Most important for us was that the six singles play­ers and Montoya, our seventh starter, were healthy. we got some good work done this week, and we’ve been build­ing the last month or so. we played a good match against florida state, and coming off of that, we were in a good po­sition to compete and get a win against carolina.” 
this irish win marks the first time since 1992 that notre dame knocked off the nation’s top-ranked team. but for sachire, the win was less about its historic implica­tions and more about giving the irish momentum going forward this season, he said. 
“i think certainly [beating north carolina] is the biggest regular season win in a long time,” sachire said. our only other win over a no. 1 [team] happened in ’92 in the ncaa tournament. but we realize it’s just one match, and we need to look at it as a step­ping stone for the rest of the year. we’ve got a month left, and we need to make sure were playing our best tennis going forward so we can go make some more memories this season.” 
the next chance for notre dame to keep its momentum going will be its final acc regular season match sunday on the road at north carolina state. the match between the irish and wolfpack is set to begin at 1 p.m. at the J.w. isenhour tennis center. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 

paid adVertiseMent 




the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 
BASEBALL | MiaMi (fla.) 10, nd 2 

Softball 
continued froM page 20 
second base. 
later in the inning, notre dame loaded the bases against pittsburgh senior starting pitcher Jenna Modic. with freshman catcher Maddie Mccracken on third, bigler on second and freshman second baseman ali wester on first, harris threw a wild pitch, al­lowing Mccracken to cross the plate. the irish ended the second frame with a 4-0 lead. 
on the mound, junior right-hander rachel nasland picked up the win for the irish in the game, her 11th of the season. gumpf said she thought the key for the san diego native was working around base runners. 
“[nasland] got strikes when she needed to, and she put the ball where she needed to,” gumpf said. “i think rachel did a much better job today of managing the strike zone. ... today was one of her best per­formances of the year because [pittsburgh] can flat hit, and she handled them really well.” 
nasland walked the first batter of the game, but held the panthers scoreless in the first inning. in the sec­ond, nasland struck out two straight panthers batters to leave a runner stranded on second base, and in the third inning, nasland gave up a one-out double before getting three consecutive outs. 
the lone run nasland sur­rendered came in the top of the fifth inning when panthers senior third baseman shelby pickett drilled a solo home run to left field. 
behind nasland’s one-run performance, the irish con­tinued to put runs on the board. Mccracken tallied an rbi single in the bottom of the third inning to score se­nior infielder carly piccinich. then, senior right fielder Megan sorlie blasted a dou­ble to left-center field in the fourth inning, which brought home reed and Mccracken and extended notre dame’s lead to 7-0. 
even a rain delay didn’t slow down notre dame’s offense, as the team added six runs in the bottom of the fourth in­ning despite a 40-minute stop­page. with the bases loaded, senior first baseman Micaela arizmendi singled to score two runs, and the next two batters — reed and sortie — both hit run-scoring doubles. notre dame’s final run came on an error by pittsburgh se­nior second baseman Maggie sevilla, which allowed sorlie to score from second base. 
“we did a great job of swing­ing at strikes,” gumpf said. “[pittsburgh’s] pitching staff controls hitters when they get you to chase pitches, and we did a great job of making that not happen. we made them throw strikes.” 
the second game of the doubleheader was cancelled due to the inclement weather, and the irish will return to ac­tion at Melissa cook stadium on thursday when they take on butler at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

ND falls to Miami in weather-shortened series 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
snow, rain and hurricanes cooled off a streaking notre dame this weekend, as the irish had two games against no. 2 Miami (fla.) cancelled due to the weather, then lost a third, 10-2, at frank eck stadium on sunday. 
precipitation followed the irish (16-12, 6-7 acc) all week­end, as the hurricanes (25­4, 11-2) were delayed by the weather friday, forcing that game to be pushed to a dou­bleheader saturday, which was subsequently cancelled when the two teams awoke to three inches of snow. 
the acc foes finally made it onto the diamond sunday, but the conditions were hardly ideal. temperatures stayed in the mid 40s, 20 mph winds whipped towards left field and rain began to fall by the third inning and never stopped the rest of the way. 
Miami’s mostly-floridian lineup responded with hand warmers, sweatshirts under jerseys and balaclavas, but the chilled drizzle did nothing to cool off the hurricanes’ bats, as they collected their third-highest run total of the season. 
leading the way, hurricanes junior catcher Zack collins went 3-for-5 on the day and finished a triple short of the cycle, collecting five rbis and scoring three runs. 
“they, and primarily collins, made the big swing of the bat when they needed it,” irish head coach Mik aoki said. “we missed a pitch here and there to collins, and he got it done. Just one of those days.” 
collins entered the game ranked second in the nation in walks, followed by irish junior second baseman cavan biggio, but neither drew a free pass sunday. 
both swung freely and made good contact, aoki said, but while collins’s hits found emp­ty space, biggio’s could not. he finished the day 0-for-5, snap­ping a 10-game hit streak, and his struggles at the plate were part of a larger problem for the irish, aoki said. 

“even if we made barrel con­tact on it … you know, cavan hits that ball into right-center field [in the first inning], and he really stepped on it, but the wind knocked it down,” aoki said. “ … a lot of them just found gloves today. it’s just kind of a bad-luck deal, unfortunately.” 
wind factored heavily into the game. collins’s first hit of the day, a double to right-center in the third that plated two runs, would likely have cleared the fence had it not been knocked down by the wind. in the top of the sixth in­ning, however, he was the ben­eficiary of a steady breeze to left field that carried a ball he crushed deep into left-center for a three-run home run. 
notre dame’s first run of the game was also aided by that breeze, as senior left fielder ricky sanchez smacked a ball to almost the exact same spot in the bottom of the second for his first home run of the sea­son. with the homer, sanchez extended his hit streak to 11 games, tops on the team. 
but Miami did not rely on just the long ball to generate its offense. the hurricanes start­ed the game’s scoring in the top of the first with a single by sophomore center fielder carl chester, who came around to score after redshirt junior first baseman christopher barr laid down a sacrifice bunt that irish junior catcher ryan lidge threw away. 
all told, Miami bunted three times in the first three in­nings, as junior designated hitter randy batista reached first on a dropped third strike that bounced off lidge’s foot to start the third inning, then advanced to second on a bunt single and then third on a sac­rifice bunt. 
“i don’t think you could have come up with a collection of three better-placed bunts,” aoki said. “the first one took a funky spin, the second one spun in the air and maybe on a dry day spins foul … and the last one hugged the line. they were just good bunts.” 
collins then doubled and came around to score when se­nior shortstop brandon lopez singled up the middle. the next inning, aoki pulled his starting pitcher, sophomore right-hander peter solomon, giving him a final line of 3 1/3 innings pitched, four runs, three earned and the loss. 
his replacement, sophomore left-hander sean guenther, went five innings and gave up five runs of his own — three from collins’s long ball and two from runners he handed off to sophomore right-hander evy ruibal in the ninth, who gave up a bases-clearing double. 
notre dame’s only run af­ter the second inning came in the bottom of the seventh, when junior third baseman Kyle fiala, in his first game back since breaking his hand nearly a month ago, singled, advanced to second on a balk, tagged up to third on a fly ball from biggio and scored when sophomore outfielder Jake shepski singled up the middle. 
“[Miami’s] a good team, they’re a good team, and they made us pay,” aoki said. “this one, you just gotta move on. i thought we played well. i thought we competed at a high level, so i don’t have any prob­lem with that. sometimes you lose those games.” 
the loss is only the second at home this year for notre dame and comes midway through its longest homestand of the season. the irish still have five more games, all this week, at frank eck stadium, beginning tuesday when they welcome chicago state. first pitch is scheduled for 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 



ndsMcobserVer.coM | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | the obserVer 

Texas 
continued froM page 20 
“a game of the magnitude of notre dame-texas, played on the opening weekend of the college football season, deserves a special place on the labor day sports calen­dar,” notre dame director of athletics Jack swarbrick said in the release. “with this move we have secured that place and by doing so are provid­ing a greater opportunity for fans of college football to en­joy what is sure to be another great game in a classic rivalry that dates back to 1913.” 
last year, notre dame de­feated texas, 38-3, at notre dame stadium, and the sept. 4 matchup is the second of a home-and-home series with the longhorns. it will be the 12th meeting between the two programs: notre dame leads the all-time series 9-2, includ­ing victories over texas in the 1970 and 1977 cotton bowl. 
the last time the two teams played in austin was in 1996 when the irish came away with a 27-24 victory on a last second field goal by freshman kicker Jim sanson. current texas head coach charlie strong was a defensive line coach for notre dame at the time. 


Football 
continued froM page 20 
better.” 
that’s not to say there have not been changes that have affected the unit. the first change was the addition of special teams an­alyst Marty biagi to the coach­ing staff, whose impact has been largely positive so far, yoon and newsome said. 
“he’s definitely been around us a lot lately,” yoon said. “he’s been providing whatever neces­sary work he can. for instance, he’s helped us stretch a lot be­cause we need to be flexible. … we go through new routines that he’s come up with, and we talk to him and negotiate what we think about it and see why it’s impor­tant to us and we continue to do it.” 
“he does have a lot more in­sight,” newsome said. “we would watch film with [special teams coordinator scott booker] too, and he knows what he was talking, but now its just — i guess the more the merrier in that sense. you have more people helping you and guiding you on things you can improve on. … it’s nice to have somebody to let you know what you need to work on constantly.” 
the other significant change was made last week when ju­nior quarterback Montgomery Vangorder took over as holder for fellow junior quarterback deshone Kizer. daly said the change has not had a significant impact on him because his job is to make everyone else’s job in the unit as easy as possible, no matter who that might be. 


“to me, it’s honestly seven yards either way, no matter who’s holding the ball,” daly said. “My job is to make their job as easy as possible, which at the end of the day is going to help Justin and [senior kicker] John chereson’s job as easy as possible. i just try to go to work every day with a purpose, just trying to get better at something each and every day and try to improve myself to help [the unit].” 
for yoon, the change has forced him to adapt from last year, but he said he has been impressed with Vangorder’s work ethic, which has made the transition easier. 
“they’re both great holders,” yoon said. “Kickers have their own little ways with holders. we look at the ball differently and it’s a different angle and every­thing, so i think it’s just some­thing that makes us really picky about it. 
“but i think [Vangorder] has been proving himself. he’s been coming out multiple times throughout the day asking me to help him — asking me to work with him — and i’ve never seen such work ethic from him so i really respect that from him. … 
paid adVertiseMent 

he’s been doing an awesome job about it.” 
regardless of the changes, however, the goal for the unit each and every practice remains the same, daly said. 
“we’re always working on something and fine tuning,” daly said. “for specialists, it’s a game of inches, so one inch here can make a big difference on the field, so we’re always trying to fine tune ourselves, always try­ing to be meticulous about how we got about our business and just always trying to improve every day. Just trying to find one aspect of our game that we can get better [at].” 
Offensive lineman competition 
for the offensive line, many people wondered how the irish would replace former stalwarts ronnie stanley and nick Martin. however, the left side of the line has been solidified with the move of senior Mike Mcglinchey from the right to the left side, where he will join incumbent starters junior Quenton nelson and sam Mustipher. Mcglinchey in particular has become a vocal leader for the unit as a whole, ju­nior offensive lineman alex bars said. 
“he’s become a lot more vo­cal,” bars said. “i mean, i learned a lot from nick [Martin] and ronnie [stanley] last year, but he’s become a lot more vocal with us, and he’s really taken it upon himself to get this group together.” 
the right side still remains in question as the competition un­folds amongst bars, sophomore tristen hoge and seniors colin Mcgovern and hunter bivin. nelson said the competition has been beneficial for the unit, however, as it has brought out the best in all four players. 
“i can’t say enough about the right side,” nelson said. “everyone competing for the right side — hoge, bars, bivin and colin — they’re all doing great.” 
regardless of how it shakes out, the group’s goal is to con­tinue to grow and challenge each other to play to its greatest potential, bars said. 
“we learned from last year’s group, and we want to exceed expectations that we have al­ready,” bars said. “ … we know the standard, so we’re just living up to that.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


the obserVer | MONDAY, APRIL 11, 2016 | ndsMcobserVer.coM 
FOOTBALL 
Special teams set to return starters 
By BEN PADANILAM 
associate sports editor 
on a team that saw a good deal of turnover from last season to the start of this spring, notre dame’s one constant is a group that goes largely unnoticed: the special teams unit. 
the irish return graduate stu­dent long snapper scott daly, junior punter tyler newsome, sophomore kicker Justin yoon and kick and punt returner sophomore c.J. sanders, all of whom started at their respective positions last season. the con­tinuity is the group’s strongest characteristic, as each player can focus on improving both indi­vidually and the unit as a whole, daly said. 
“obviously we are going to return all of our guys next year, and i think that’s only going to help us improve,” daly said. “we had two first-year guys last year, and they did a fantastic job, so i think with their hard work and dedication and their great mind­set of coming to practice every day with a purpose — trying to get better — it’s only going to be 
see football PAGE 19 

ND-UT game moved 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame’s opening game against texas for the 2016 foot­ball season has been moved to sunday, sept. 4, according to a press release from the university on friday. the official start time has not yet been announced, but according to the release it will be a night game. the game will still take place at darrell K royal-texas Memorial stadium in austin, texas. 
the game was originally scheduled for saturday, sept. 3. 
irish freshman running back Josh adams dives for the goal line during notre dame’s 38-3 win over texas on sept. 5 at notre dame stadium. irish freshman running back Josh adams dives for the goal line during notre dame’s 38-3 win over texas on sept. 5 at notre dame stadium. 
see teXas PAGE 19 
MEN’S TENNIS | nd 5, north carolina 2 
Irish upset top-ranked Tar Heels 

By TONY ZAPPIA  By MANNY DE JESUS  
sports writer no.nio  12-ranked pair of irish se­rs Quentin Monaghan and  sports writer  
notre dame defeated no. 1 ale x lawson, 6-4.  no. 1 notre dame overcame  
north carolina for a historic h owever, the irish remained  its offensive struggles in the  
senior night win friday, 5-2. unf azed, as juniors eddy  second half to push to past  
the irish (13-12, 5-6 acc) cov alschi and Josh hagar went  no. 13 duke, 8-6, at arlotta  
captured the momentum ear-on  to defeat the no. 17-ranked  stadium on sunday, extend­ 
ly, rallying to take the doubles duo of  tar heel juniors Jack  ing its winning streak to four  
point against the tar heels (22­Mu rray and brayden schnur,  games.  
3, 7-3) after three tight matches. 6-4 , while notre dame’s pairing  the irish (8-1, 3-0 acc)  
north carolina started dou­of f reshman grayson broadus  took control of the game af­ 
bles play with a win when the and  senior nicolas Montoya  ter trailing the blue devils  
no. 1-ranked duo of tar heel se­ (7-6, acc 1-2) by two goals in  
nior brett clark and sophomore  see M tennis PAGE 16  the third quarter. freshman  

robert Kelly knocked off the 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 13, pitt 1 

notre dame bests pittburgh 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
two weather delays couldn’t slow down no. 20 notre dame on sunday as the irish handled pittsburgh 13-1 at Melissa cook stadium. 
“i just told the girls how proud i was of them, because they made [the weather de­lays] not a factor,” irish head coach deanna gumpf said. “i think [pittsburgh] made it a factor, and i think that’s part of the reason they gave up a little bit. i’m just really proud of the way the girls played, this was the toughest day we’ve every played in and we played really well.” 

the irish (28-6, 6-3 acc) jumped on the panthers (24­14, 5-8) early on as freshman designated player caitlyn brooks rocked a two-run home run in the first inning. the long ball was brooks’ eighth of the season, which leads the team. the burbank, california, native said her homer came from just swinging at good pitches. 
“i was just looking for a pitch in my zone, and i got it,” brooks said. “i took [a ball], and then i was just waiting to see it again, so i was excited about that.” 
the irish kept their mo­mentum going in the bottom of the second inning when sophomore left fielder bailey bigler slapped a double to left field to score sophomore shortstop Morgan reed from 
see softball PAGE 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 8, duKe 6 

Defense leads comeback 
attack ryder garnsey scored two straight goals two tie the contest at five goals, but it wasn’t until the 4:45 mark of the fourth quarter that the irish took their first lead of the game. Junior midfielder sergio perkovic sliced through the blue devils defense and scored to give notre dame a 7-6 lead. 
the irish defense did its part in holding duke to just two second-half goals to secure the win. 
“i don’t care who you play, you do the best job you can simulating people and get­ting used to them all week, but until you’re on the field with them, it’s different,” irish head coach Kevin corrigan said. “we have [senior mid­fielder] cole riccardi playing [blue devils senior midfielder] Myles Jones. he’s a very good player and he’s a big strong kid, but he’s not Myles Jones. so making those slide decisions, 
see M lacrosse PAGE 16 




