The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 108 | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
Saint Mary’s names three valedictorians 
College announces names of three students chosen to represent the Class of 2016 at Commencement 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
saint mary’s announced the names of three students who will represent the class of 2016 as valedictorians during the college’s 169th commencement. 
The three honorees are paige aldrich, annie cavalier and alex vizard. aldrich is a chemistry and mathematics double major, cavalier is a chemistry major with a concentration in biochem­istry and a minor in biology and vizard is an accounting major with a concentration in finance and a minor in mathematics. 
after graduation, aldrich said she plans to study nuclear chemistry at michigan state university’s graduate program. vizard said she will be work­ing at ernst & young in chicag, while cavalier will attend medi­cal school at loyola university in chicago. 
vizard said she was surprised when she found out she was one of three valedictorians. 
“i never thought there would be three,” she said. “i thought there would be some sort of tie­breaker. i never really thought about getting it. it wasn’t an ex­plicit goal, but i was very excited 
see graduaTion PAGE 3 



nd launches Jerusalem gateway 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
notre dame international (ndi) launched a global gateway program in Jerusalem this spring in order to offer more opportunities in israel for notre dame students, academic di­rector for the program robert smith said. 
“when notre dame international introduced the gateway concept a few years ago, the plan was to begin es­tablishing gateways where the university already had a strong presence,” smith said in an email. “Tantur ecumenical institute has been operat­ing in Jerusalem, with strong notre dame support, since 1972. it made sense to estab­lish a gateway here. not only is Jerusalem a world heritage city with a role to play in relation to 
see Jerusalem PAGE 3 



Lecture explores effects of modern socioeconomic gap 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
robert putnam, the peter and isabel malkin professor of public policy at harvard university, gave a lecture on Thursday based on his book “our Kids: The american dream in crisis,” about the dif­ferences in opportunities for kids from affluent families and kids from low-income families. 
putnam said while america has grown in several ways in the last 50 years, opportunity gaps have become an increas­ing problem in this country. 
“we’ve made a lot of prog­ress on many fronts, but in one important way, america has moved in the wrong di­rection over the past 30 or 40 years,” putnam said. “america is now fairly far down the road towards moving toward a two-tier hereditary class system in america, and that would make this a very different country.” 
This problem is not only due to income inequality, putnam said, but also because people are now more frequently liv­ing “class-based lives” and interacting with people from different socioeconomic back­grounds less often. 
“america has become a more unequal society in economic terms,” he said. “a little 
see eFFecTs PAGE 4 


Liturgical choir travels to Europe for annual tour 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
rome — on march 6, the notre dame liturgical choir found itself in the loft of the salzburg cathedral, the 17th-century austrian church where wolfgang amadeus mozart was baptized. 
Joining the parish choir, the liturgical choir sang at the german-language mass. Junior lara dulin said the cathedral, with its large interior and high choir loft, was her favorite church of the trip to come. 
“i found this one to be the prettiest for its simplicity and many windows with natural light shining in,” she said. 
The performance at the monastery was the first stop of the choir’s spring  break tour through central europe, a trip which took them from the pic­turesque town of salzburg to a nearby abbey to the country’s capital, vienna, to the czech capital of prague. 
The choir has toured inter­nationally since 1995, and this year 53 of the choir’s 70 mem­bers made the trip, tour direc­tor ned vogel said. 
see choir PAGE 4 







ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. Box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu,  zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. Box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What did you do for St. Patrick’s Day? 


Sean O’Brien 
sophomore 
stanford hall 

“went to class, watched basketball, and hung out with friends doing festive things.” 

Jackson Fox 
junior 
st. edward’s hall 
“Thrived.” 


Ryan Hennessy 
sophomore 
duncan hall 

“enjoyed being a dude socializing with other people, possibly of the opposite gender.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Amanda Ball 
sophomore 
walsh hall 
“support[ed] suB!” 


Sean Kilmer 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 

“woke up early to irish music and was happy due to my irish roots. no comment about class.” 

Zach Janicki 
sophomore 
siegfried hall 

“played football on the quad.” 



Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Katie galioto marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

rachel o’grady Ben padanilam Justine wang 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
susan Zhu matt mcmahon 

Photo Viewpoint 

Sexual Violence Hawaii Club’s Lu’au Men’s Tennis vs. Finding Your Place in Niemeyer Lectures in 
caitlyn Jordan Tabitha ricketts 
Prayer Service Stepan Center Miami the Universe Political Philosophy Grotto 5 p.m.- 8 p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion Spes Unica Hall Hesburgh Center 
5:15p.m. Hawaiian food, hula 12 p.m.- 2 p.m. 12 p.m.- 1 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 


Corrections 

Service to combat dancing and a lei-The Irish take on the Career Crossings “Proximity & Migration” 
The observer regards itself as sexual violence. making station. Hurricanes. Speaker Series. feat. Jeremy Waldron. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
LGBT Retreat Men’s Lacrosse vs. Palm Sunday Mass Chili Cook-off Softball vs. Eastern 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Sacred Heart Parish Virginia Basilica of the Sacred Harper Hall Michigan 
however, recognize that we will make 
Center Arlotta Stadium Heart 4 p.m.- 6 p.m. Melissa Cook Stadium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
all day 6 p.m.- 8 p.m. 12 p.m. - 1:15 p.m. Proceeds benefit the 5 p.m. - 7p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
PrismND’s 24-hour The Irish take on the Music by the Notre Harper Team for ND The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 

retreat. Cavaliers. Dame Folk Choir. Relay for Life. Eagles. 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | The oBserver 



‘aphasia’ producer discusses rehabilitation 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
carl mcintyre made the movie “aphasia” in 2010, five years after a stroke damaged 80 percent of his brain’s left hemisphere, thus severely impairing his processes of communication. mcintyre shared the movie and his pre­sentation, “hope is a Four letter word,” in carroll auditorium at saint mary’s on Thursday night. 
susan latham, chair of the department of communicative sciences and disorders at the college, said aphasia is a commu­nicative disorder that inhibits lan­guage but not intellect, resulting in the loss of the ability to speak and listen. 
“carl starred as himself in a short film, recounting his story to adapt to the incredible changes in his life,” she said. “now, he tours around the world, presenting the movie and motivating people with his story.” 
Before his stroke, mcintyre worked as a teacher, actor and salesman. in the movie, mcintyre reenacts a year and a half of ther­apy and learning following the stroke, indicating how losing the ability to communicate changed both his and his family’s life. a presentation given by mcintyre followed the movie. 
“having a stroke sucks,” mcintyre said. “aphasia really sucks. Before i had a stroke, life is good. ... Job is voice — actor, teacher and really good sales. ... But after stroke, everything’s dif­ferent. i can’t speak, and i can’t read or write. nothing, absolutely nothing.” 

a year and a half after the stroke, he hadn’t improved, mcintyre said. Being trapped in one’s head is a prison where there are disap­pointments everyday, he said. 
“i remember saying, ‘live or die, i don’t care. i’m over life,’” he said. “Bad place, really dark, dark place. But carl is carl and most times i’m happy.” 
mcintyre’s recovery was a multi-step process. The first step was to mourn and realize he was no longer the same as the ‘old carl,’ he said. he then wrote the word ‘acceptance’ on a large pa­per pad — the second step to­wards recovery. 
“i’m still here,” he said after writing the word. “i’m still rel­evant and no fear — fearless. ... There is hope, hope is everything. no love, no life. ... i love to live again, and i love hope.” 
another step in the process is hope, mcintyre said, and the final step is progress. no matter if it’s big or small, progress every day matters, he said. 
he said he is lucky because he is still able to walk, and even though his right side is weaker and his timing is off, he is still able to toss 
paid adverTisemenT 
a baseball with his son. 
mcintyre said having purpose is also very important. 
“my brain is always on,” he said. “and faster every year be­cause i’m working every day. ... i’m trying.” 
mcintyre said once insurance ran out and he could not pay for certain therapy programs, he did, and continues to, learn to speak again through free study subject programs at various universi­ties. when learning to speak, as­sociating words with pictures is necessary — such as breaking the word “when” into “w-hen,” while thinking of the bird, he said. 
The best advice he can pass onto future speech therapists and families is patience, he said. 
“lot of patience because to­day is a good day, tomorrow not too much,” mcintyre said. “But patience can never quit. ... i’m lucky because friends help life back ... and understand i never be the same. my brain is fine. i can’t speak, but i’m no dummy.” 
“one person understands me, i’m over the moon,” he said. “i know i never be the same, and every day is hard. But every day is good too. possibilities, end­less possibilities. ... aphasia, still sucks, but i win every day and you can too.” 


Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 
Jerusalem 
conTinued From page 1 
most global conversations about faith and politics, but we al­ready had a strong presence here through Tantur.” 
The new location provides a plethora of new experiences for interested students, smith said. 
“The Jerusalem global gateway provides an important location for research and collaboration for many aspects of the university of notre dame. i have received con­current faculty appointments in the department of theology and the new Keough school of global affairs. Jerusalem is an ideal place to study the intersection of theology and global affairs, so i anticipate many programs with that sort of emphasis,” he said. 
according to smith, the pro­gram will encourage other members of the notre dame community in Jerusalem to host or attend additional conferences. 
“i am eager to engage in confer­ences and symposia in Jerusalem that further enhance the al­ready stellar reputation of the university of notre dame,” smith said. “The gateway is a place for collaboration; we intend to col­laborate locally, regionally and globally on ways to address a wide variety of topics. 
“Beyond study abroad oppor­tunities, i look forward to work­ing with professors, program directors and academic depart­ments on campus to increase the number of students and re­searchers having meaningful ex­periences in Jerusalem. we have 



Graduation 
conTinued From page 1 
and proud to be able to represent my class.” 
cavalier said during her college search, she initially did not have saint mary’s on her radar because her mother graduated from the college in 1988. she said she want­ed to go somewhere that felt more like a place of her own, but then she came to the college to visit. 
“when i came to visit, i was walking through the buildings and talking to professors and stu­dents,” cavalier said. “it just felt like the right fit.” 
aldrich said saint mary’s has helped make her accountable for her own life. 
“i’ve learned a lot about the world around me and realized that i need to match what i be­lieve with my actions,” she said. “i’ve also struggled with my faith throughout my life, so i took a critical look at my beliefs and have deeply improved my spiritual life.” 
cavalier said the close relation­ships between students and pro­fessors make saint mary’s special. 
“it makes the classroom expe­rience so much better,” she said. “you don’t feel like you’re being talked at. That gave me a lot of confidence to speak up in class and share my opinions. … i think that confidence is what i’ve gained in general, but also the ability to be independent and leave here with a long-standing partnership with the Kroc institute and the Keough school [of global affairs] to uti­lize the services of the gateway.” 

according to the ndi brochure, the aims of the global gateway include “supporting undergradu­ate study and multidisciplinary scholarly engagement.” 
“Jerusalem is a complex, multi-layered environment,” smith said. “if you have a research inter­est or a more general interest in the intersections of religion, cul­ture and politics, this might be a place you’ll want to visit. i look forward to hearing ideas from students, staff and faculty about how some time in Jerusalem would benefit research and learning goals.” 
This summer, the gateway will host two sessions for more than 30 students, smith said. The gateway will also serve as a site for international summer service learning programs (isslps) for students pursuing service learn­ing in a variety of contexts. 
smith said he is excited to be part of the ndi global gateway community. 
“each gateway is a place for the people and programs of the university to encounter a sig­nificant global context, but we also function in ways that bring elements of our context into our universities. The process of in­ternationalizing the university means that we build relation­ships around the world to sig­nificantly expand our academic horizons,” he said. 

Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
no doubts of the success that i will see in the future. i don’t doubt my ability to do things that i want to do.” 
vizard said the college and the sophia program, saint mary’s liberal arts curriculum require­ments, helped her gain confidence in all areas of her life. 
“it’s caused me to try a lot of new things,” she said. “i took a lot of classes that i probably would have never tried taking, and i ended up really enjoying them. i think it’s caused me to expand my mindset and grow as a person in general.” 
cavalier said she is proud to a saint mary’s student because of the college’s larger community. 
“you can graduate from a state school or another larger private school, and you don’t ever really go back or associate yourself with the school after that,” she said. “i know i will have ties to this school and this area for the rest of my life. i know it is a place i will always come back to, a place that i’m al­ways going to miss.” 
aldrich said she is proud to be graduating from a college that produces strong, kind, driven women. 
“i could have learned informa­tion from textbooks,” she said, “but it wouldn’t have compared to the rounded education that i’ve gotten from the caring, intelligent professors at saint mary’s.” 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

working class people — the so-kind of a problem,” he said. 
salzburg, which famously housed 

Choir 

Effects 
cial ties that used to be an im-“americans recognized the 
maria von Trapp of “The sound of 
conTinued From page 1 
conTinued From page 1 

portant part of our lives — are problem and began to fix the 
music” fame. 
fragmenting and becoming problem.” 
“our director, dr. andrew 

less well-known but actually, much, much weaker — what putnam said the solution to 
i think, maybe more porten-are the implications of all that this problem in the early 19th 
tous is that we’ve become, for kids?” he asked. “even in century was the invention of 
trips for religious choirs, which tices with free time to explore,” 
also, a more segregated soci-little towns all across america, the public high school. 
organized performances at the Thompson, who has been on four 
ety in terms of social class. … we can see these trends driv-“[The public high school] was 
abbey, salzburg cathedral and choir tours, said. “one of the best 
increasingly, we’re either liv-ing america toward a two-class aimed to narrow the opportu­
two churches each in vienna and things about this trip is that we had 
ing in rich enclaves with other society.” nity gap to make it easier for ev­
prague. more time for sightseeing than on 
rich folks, or in poor enclaves putnam said one particu-erybody, all kids, to have a fair 
The performances ranged in some of our previous tours.” 
with other poor folks, and few-larly harmful mindset that has chance in life,” he said. “Free, 
type and length: at the Benedictine dulin, who traveled to europe 
er and fewer of us are living in developed is being concerned public, secondary education 
melk abbey in austria, the choir for the first time with the choir, 
mixed or moderate-income only with one’s own offspring for all kids in town — that idea 
performed a 20-minute concert said she enjoyed the guided tours 
neighborhoods.” instead of all children through-was invented in america in 
for a small community of monks, of each city, but  the places where 
another contributing factor out america. 1910. nowhere else in the world 
while at the historic church of our they performed were a form of 
to this issue is that social con-“over the course of the last were there free, public second-
lady before Tyn in prague, it gave sightseeing themselves. 
nections within these different 30 or 40 years in america, the ary schools for all kids. … it was 
an hour-long public concert, vogel “Traveling to salzburg and 
communities have decreased, meaning of ‘our kids’ — that the best public policy decision 
said. vienna as a choir is kind of  like 
as well, putnam said. is, our sense of our responsibil-america has ever made.” 
The choir’s normal repertoire — traveling to the cradle of civiliza­
“social bonds, community ity to other kids in town, apart type of change may be 
the songs it sings at sunday morn-tion,” dulin said. “we sang at so 
ties within a family, within a from our own — has shriv-sparked by anyone who cares 
ing Basilica masses — ranges from many beautiful churches, many of 
community, within the work-eled, so now when people say enough to get involved in his 
renaissance to contemporary which were historic cathedrals in 
ing class in america, have se-‘our kids’ they mean their own or her community and offer-
songs, and choir president eric the centers of these old cities. we 
riously deteriorated over the biological kids,” he said. “That ing hope that america can 
Thompson said the tour perfor-got to see some beautiful exam-
last 30 or 40 years,” he said. shriveling of our sense of re-solve this problem once again, 
mances consisted mainly of those ples of Baroque and gothic archi­
“The social bonds that used to sponsibility for other people’s putnam said. 
pieces. But the change of venues tecture, some of which dated back 
helped bring some of the pieces to to as early as the eighth century.” 
life. vogel said choir members got to 
“many of the composers that know each other as well as the cit-
are important to our choir’s reper-ies they visited. 
putnam said these factors are despite this negative trend, from smart, engaged, ordinary 
toire lived in these cities for much “my favorite part of the trip was 
combining to divide america though, there is reason to be-civic activists and civic leaders 
of their lives,” he said. getting to know people in the choir 
into two categories, creating lieve america can solve the looking at their own communi­
in between the performanc-that i didn’t know very well before-
problems for kids in a lower problem of opportunity gaps, ty and saying, ‘we’ve got some 
es was time for sightseeing. hand,” vogel said. “i made some 
class. putnam said. problems here, how do we fix 
Thompson said some choir mem-really great new friends thanks to 
“The fact that we’re eco-“i’m optimistic that we can it?’” 
bers went to the vienna state this tour.” 
nomically more unequal, the solve this problem, and it is be-
opera and the city’s easter mar-

fact that we’re sociologically cause this is not the first time Contact Courtney Becker at 
kets, while vogel said members Contact Emily McConville at 
more segregated, the fact that that america has faced this cbecker3@nd.edu 
visited the nonnberg abbey in emcconv1@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

By ALI LOWERY 
scene writer 

whatever your opinions on ariana grande, it’s guaranteed you’ve had one the 22-year-old artist’s sever­al Billboard-topping singles stuck in your head at some point since she showed us all the “The way” in 2013. her debut album, “yours Truly,” garnered critical and commercial success for its sugar-sweet lyrics and mariah carey reminiscent vocals from the young former child star. “my everything”, grande’s sophomore effort, effectively elevated the singer from her former nickelodeon persona, and scene writ­er matt munhall noted that the album moved grande “toward the epicenter of Top 40 without ditching the tweens just yet.” 
we now arrive at march 10, 2016, and 
By BOBBY WOZNIAK 
scene writer 

we live in a world obsessed with mass-produced goods and rapidly changing technology. economic advancement and monetary gain are top priorities as people advance forward in the pursuit of fame, fortune and recognition. with social media platforms dominating the formation of our popular culture, there is a clear infatuation with transform­ing oneself into a product that seems appealing to others and proves one’s “success” in life. whether you admit to participating in this culture or not, its palpable presence has had an enormous influence on artistic creation through the past few years. 
after a four-year hiatus, the eccentric and nonconformist santigold is back with a satirically brilliant album that serves as a social observation on these very ideas of consumerism, capitalism and narcissism. “99¢,” the philly-based artist’s third studio album, delivers an energetic and diverse approach to per­sonal and societal reflection, overlap­ping various sonic textures and genres while providing a humorous yet intel­lectual commentary on the current state of our world (the album cover pointedly pictures her shrink-wrapped grande has just dropped her first offi­cial single from “dangerous woman,” the upcoming third studio album for­merly known as “moonlight.” grande was motivated to change the name of the project in order to be “empowering to [her] fans.” The decision seemed to stem from the artist’s recent endeavors in social justice territory, her essay on sexism following grande’s split with rapper Big sean made headlines last June and an interview during which she shut down two radio dJs misogynistic and heteronormative comments went viral early this past november. “i feel like my personal growth is reflected in the sound,” ariana told her fans during a recent live chat surrounding the news of her album release. “To me, a danger­ous woman is someone who’s not afraid to take a stand, be herself and to be hon­est.” add another fierce feminist pop 
in a package containing random knick­knacks and sellable products, for good­ness sake). santi white, the woman behind the santigold moniker, has re­emerged with a keener sense of aware­ness and wit that shine through an upbeat sound that strays from her pre­vious darker records, the critically ac­claimed 2008 debut “santogold” and 2012’s equally good follow-up “master of my make-Believe.” 
The opener “can’t get enough of myself” sets the sarcastically egotisti­cal and superficially self-empowering tone of the album, utilizing cheery pop and flute instrumentals to construct an overly positive ambiance. santigold’s seemingly narcissistic lyrics immedi­ately establish her social satire on vanity and consumerism, with the first line of the song boasting, “if i wasn’t me, i can be sure i’d wanna be.” 
The very next song, “Banshee,” fur­thers her commentary, the singer de­scribing a “banshee on [her] shoulder” that serves as a societal voice. The entity speaks to her, telling her how to act and how to portray herself in a consumer­ist culture filled with superficialities and useless products. an evident de­sire to let go of the voice and free her­self of the social pressures resonates throughout the track, backed by fun and diva to the list. 

as far as the single itself is con­cerned, the title track from “dangerous woman,” its sound has a sultry waltz-like vibe that’s comparable to The weeknd’s “earned it,” a track he wrote for the “50 shades of grey” soundtrack. even the “dangerous woman” album cover, a black and white headshot of grande clad in a leather bunny ear mask, is evocative of the controversial best-selling book-turned-blockbuster and perhaps symbolic of ariana’s final stages of transformation from her for­mer “good-girl” image to full on daring female entertainer, à la rihanna. 
no, the song is not necessarily groundbreaking, but it’s new territory for grande as she continues to show her range of vocal abilities beyond breathy r&B/pop crossover hits. The singer’s stint on “saturday night live” on march 
energetic sounds that contrast her rela­tively serious symbolism and contrib­ute to her sarcastic message. standout “chasing shadows” provides a peek into santigold’s self-reflective process as she rap-sings about the challenge of staying true to herself in a competitive, money-obsessed industry. she is concerned about losing time and her ability to leave behind a music legacy, yet she exhibits a steady confidence in her fight to control her creative endeavors and overarching success. 
although the album, as a whole, is not as sonically intense nor grime-based as her previous records, it possesses just as much diversity between tracks, with contrasting beats and unique sounds. incorporating elements of pop, new wave, trap, reggae and rock, santigold maintains her signature sound while providing something that’s socially relevant and musically refreshing. “rendezvous girl,” for example, sounds like a “99¢” take on the incredibly popu­lar “disparate youth” off her sophomore album, beginning with a similar intro­duction that transforms into a more airy and saccharine beat rather than the lat­ter’s deeper and darker verses. 
at times, “99¢” does become almost too sarcastic, bouncing between genu­ine satirical observations on society 12 was praised not only for her comedic prowess as host but also for her powerful performances of “dangerous woman” and “Be alright,” a dance-y pop number that will also appear on the album, re­calls a Jess glynne summer hit. another derivative track, but all-in-all enjoyable and yet another example of the fresh performer’s attempt to step outside the proverbial generic pop box. 
ariana grande is most definitely com­ing into her own and should be on ev­eryone’s radar as she moves with full force into her own space within the pop industry that’s already filled with strong female icons. “dangerous woman” will be released may 20 and the single is cur­rently available to purchase and stream on most major platforms. 
Contact Ali Lowery at                            alowery1@nd.edu 
and cheesy, overly happy-go-lucky tex­tures that detract from her distinct sound. however, santigold’s creativity and musicality shine clearly through­out the record, reaffirming her thematic claims. with “99¢,” she forces listeners to consider her social commentary on consumerism while also allowing them to simply jam out in true santigold fash­ion, showing that, indeed, her “brand of vainglory is much better for your health.” 
Contact Bobby Wozniak at                rwozniak@nd.edu 
“99 Cents” 
Santigold 
Label: Atlantic 
Tracks: “Can’t Get Enough of Myself,” “Chasing Shadows,” “Run the Races” 
If you like: M.I.A., Sleigh Bells, Azealia Banks 


SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A letter to my sisters 
Rachel O’Grady 
associate news editor 


“here’s to strong women — may we know them, may we be them, may we raise them.” 
— unknown 

i want my sisters, caroline and alexandra, to know that it isn’t about being women. For my last column, i wrote about how we are o’grady’s and therefore we “try, don’t cry.” But it is fundamentally important to clarify what i mean by that — it should never, ever hold you back. 
To my sisters, there is nothing you cannot do, and i do not mean that in a classic, cheesy way. i do not mean you should ‘shoot for the moon, and if you fall, you will land amongst the stars.’ no. you will not ‘land amongst the stars’ if you fail. you will fail. it will hurt. There is no protecting you from any of that; i can’t tell you it won’t absolutely kill you when you don’t get into that college, or you didn’t get that solo in the dance. 
i can’t tell you it won’t hurt. i can’t tell you that you won’t be devastated. i can tell you that it will pass. 
you both know, more than anyone, the amount of rejection i have faced in my life. you two will likely never face that level of rejection, and for that, i am incredibly happy for the both of you. But things will hurt in this life, and i want you both to know no mat­ter what, you can make it through it. 
Beyond that, however, i want you to know being a girl does not disqualify you from anything. go for whatever you want in this life. you deserve everything. you are incred­ible, and there is nothing you cannot do, and i don’t mean that in a cliché way, i mean that sincerely. There is nothing you cannot do, and i do not want you, for any second, to think you are not wholly capable, particu­larly because of your chromosome pair. 
it is continually amazing to me that we, three girls in a family of all girls, have not turned out to be entirely feminist. surprisingly, the complete opposite has been the case, and for that, i am proud. do not let your chromosome set define you. do not be held back by anyone, or anything. do not let any feminist movement cause you to think you are not able to do anything you want. 
even as i write this, the cliches pain me, because i can feel you rolling your eyes and reading this in your sarcastic voices, but if i could impart one piece of advice to you, it is to not be afraid, of anything. i know both of you have not experienced this struggle yet, particularly because we all have not been raised in the way to think ‘the world (or men) are against us.’ But as you continue in your lives, i cannot overstate the importance of fearlessness, and the degree to which you actively need to express that throughout your life. you both make me so proud to be your sister on a daily basis. you are both so smart, talented, capable and moreover, incred­ible beyond words. continue being like this. continue living the life you are meant to live. continue fighting the odds and winning. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
electing Trump, Bernie or a cat 
Gary Caruso 
capitol comments 

This is about a notre dame student movement — angered and disgusted like our prevailing politi­cal anti-establishment feelings currently fueling the donald Trump and Bernie sanders candida­cies — that elected a kitten as student Body vice president. during my junior year spring semester, i was among eight other candidates running for the student body presidency against a sponta­neous joke ticket that mocked student govern­ment. while we establishment candidates ran for president, the joke ticket ran for campus King by featuring a “prime mover” with “uncandidate the cat” as his vice president. unfortunately for me, after uncandidate produced a fake id prov­ing that it was a student, the kitten and its self-declared royal running mate who donned a Burger King crown defeated all nine of us in two election rounds. 
To illustrate my uniquely liberal vietnam war raging time on campus, students enjoyed beer kegs throughout campus, including at dormitory parties. cigarette machines strategically sat on alternating residence halls floors, amid an openly smoking campus. alcoholic beverages could be staged anywhere on the campus grounds. in fact, my hall, lyons, won third place for the best home­coming float, and student government presented with a keg of beer. 
our sitting student body president (sBp) — clean-cut, serious-minded and the first student of hispanic heritage elected to lead student gov­ernment — betrayed the student body after it had demonstrated with a high Bernie sanders-like rev­olutionary turnout of support after the university announced kegs would be banned from campus. several hundred students packed our campus life council meeting, so many the overflow moved the audience to the engineering auditorium but still fell short of seating the colossal crowd. our sBp assured us “the administration has seen your re­solve and support, so i will work with them.” 
our student empowerment moment was our first successful populist movement. however, the sBp betrayed our idealistic determination by selling out at the negotiating table. rather, he se­cured a personal letter of recommendation from university president rev. Theodore m. hesburgh, 
c.s.c. to the yale law school indicating that if yale accepts anyone from notre dame, he should be the first admitted. That injustice sat so sourly with us that a decade later when he ran for a nationwide alumni office, he lost. Through his deep university affiliation, he was listed again on the alumni sen­ate ballot — a rare second chance with so many alumni also available. we extracted our revenge against him as alumni, but not as students. 
sometimes it matters where you fall in the bat­ting order, especially if you are the one beaned after a batter hits a grand slam. The year follow­ing our sBp betrayal, i ran for student body presi­dent. with such contempt, frustration and bitter feelings festering at the time, the student elector­ate was aggressively anti-establishment. within that atmosphere, a prime mover announced his candidacy from the second bathroom stall of his campaign headquarters in the fourth floor lavato­ry, where he also held visiting hours for 15 minutes each day. his 12-point program included, among others, creating an oligarchy of himself and his close friends while abolishing all current student government institutions, taking over The observer so that he and the paper could see eye-to-eye on every issue and sending out “feelers” to other st. mary’s schools nationwide while conducting a Friday night fact-finding trip across the highway at the local st. mary’s to ease 25 years of hostility. he attributed his run to never having any close friends in childhood, so he “was looking for some sort of affirmation.” 
while mocking student government, he ap­peared from behind a burning bush (trash can) on his residence hall balcony to counter his critics “who have fought us with slander, rumors and a great deal of truth.” he staged his own kidnapping and adopted the graduation march song com­mencement hymn, “pomp and circumstance,” as his theme song which constantly blared out of windows across the campus. his campaign genius lay in his brilliant satire. 
Just like several of this year’s u.s. presidential so-called “establishment” candidates, many of us who ran against the King would have worked tire­lessly to seriously overcome past disappointments. we were just as angry and frustrated, but our wild mob electorate shut out reason and issues to vote against our previous sBp the only way they could, by voting for a joke. i was the only candidate to win a dorm — my own lyons — in the first round where the King won all others but did not reach the minimum threshold. in the runoff against the surviving serious establishment candidate (not me), the King won by a record-setting 65.7 percent of the vote and only lost cavanaugh hall by four votes. 
ironically, the King had always planned to “sati­rize the election and then drop out of it.” however, students craved his antics; once an estimated 1,300 students stood beneath his balcony to hear him. after his election, the King summarized that for the electorate his antics were “something meaningful to say, and the students responded.” 
Thus far this year, only anti-establishment uncandidate the cat owns a nomination. That may portend sad tidings come the summer for sanders and november for Trump. only prime mover mira­cles can alter those destinies. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director at the U.S. House of Representatives and in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. Contact him on Twitter at @GaryJCaruso or via email at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The oBserver | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The scorched-earth strategy of the GOP 
one of the major campaign issues arising in this 2016 cycle is the appointment of a new supreme court justice. what was once a decided issue – the cur­rent president making the appointment regardless of how close he is to completing his term – has become something republicans believe they can contest. led by senate majority leader mitch mcconnell, senate republicans in contested races, for fear of losing support of their conservative bases, are turning to mcconnell’s unconstitutional position. 
Those contested senate races include sen. pat Toomey, r-penn..; sen. Kelly ayotte, r-n.h.; and sen. rob portman, r-ohio. These republicans are follow­ing mcconnell’s lead. 
sen. dan coates, r-ind. is retiring after this term. By submitting to senate race gop politics, he is setting up whoever his successor will be to take the same stance. 
This extreme stance will not be well received come november. moderate republicans who are disgusted by the gop establishment flouting constitutional duty will almost certainly vote for democrats. 
democratic candidates in these elections have already ripped apart the gop position. candidates including former admiral Joe sestak of pennsylvania, governor maggie hasson of new hampshire, and for­mer governor Ted strickland of ohio have all spoken out against their challengers’ constitutionally dubious position. even republican sen. susan collins of maine is uncomfortable with gop playing politics over the supreme court, objecting to the political maneuvering on both sides of aisle on the very recent death of Justice scalia. 
if sen. coates wishes to leave behind a respectable legacy, he should not submit to mitch mcconnell’s ob­structions of the constitutional duty of the president to appoint a new justice. democrats are on the right side of the issue. This will play out well for sestak, hasson, and strickland when they challenge republican in­cumbents in november. For indiana, senate candidate Baron hill will likely join the ranks of sestak, hasson and strickland. 
Kieran Phelan 
sophomore Feb. 24 

Thank you from the Jumpball family 
To all the Bookstore Basketball participants and volunteers, we want to let you have a made a huge difference to the boys and girls in Jamaica and haiti that took part in Jumpball. last year, over 600 boys and girls were able to take part in a series of free basketball clinics. most of the participants are from impoverished communities where there are few organized activities for kids to take part in. 
in places where there are no handouts and few activities for children, Jumpball, the organiza­tion we founded and have run for over the past 20 years, provides for children to learn life skills through sports: self-esteem, teamwork, dedica­tion, sportsmanship, camaraderie and of course the opportunity to learn the fundamentals of basketballs. 
something as simple as a day of fun on the basketball court really does make a difference. whether it is simply a day of fun and bonding with other boys and girls or if it is an experience that changes the course of their life, Jumpball has an impact. and therefore — you all have an impact — thanks to your generous donations. you truly do play so they can play. 
The Jumpball “family” is a real thing. it is alive and well in haiti and Jamaica and it is certainly alive in south Bend. as two nd grads, our bond with the university has strengthened through the participation between Bookstore and Jumpball over the years. we have never been prouder of our alma mater and we are reminded of that every year thanks to your selflessness. 
Thanks everyone for helping to make a differ­ence beyond the basketball court — have a fantastic tournament! 
Bill Maloney 
class of 1995 
Chad Sutcliffe 
class of 1995 Feb. 29 

Objections to the Laetare Medal decision 
we are deeply disappointed and discouraged by notre dame’s announcement that vice president Joe Biden and former speaker of the house John Boehner will receive the laetare medal at this year’s commencement. The laetare medal is pre­sented annually to an american catholic “in rec­ognition of outstanding service to the church and society. it is considered the oldest and most presti­gious award for american catholics.” 
Fr. Jenkins explained the university’s basis for its decision: “one of our great challenges today is peo­ple who disagree often will vilify, attack, demean the opposition and then they cannot work with the opposition. one of the great catholic concepts is the common good. what is the common good? you and i may disagree, or Boehner and Biden may dis­agree, but we have to recognize that whatever we think, we have to act for the common good. 
“one thing i hope we do at the university is we try to bring our students to understand they can disagree but they need to talk to one another, rea­son with one another and despite differences, they should always respect the other person and not demean. 
“unless we do that, we cannot work together, we cannot serve the common good. we are just in this gridlock of antagonism that is all too common today.” 
most would agree the tone of our politics could be improved, but Fr. Jenkins’ call for civility is a mistaken basis upon which to decide who is wor­thy of the laetare medal. By awarding the laetare medal to Biden and Boehner, the university discredits the award, which ought to honor an american catholic for service to the church and society rather than make a point about the charac­ter of political dialogue. 
The university has made a mistake, one that devalues the laetare medal and reflects poorly on the judgment of the university’s leaders. unfortunately, this unacceptable decision is exac­erbated by the fact that notre dame has once again scandalized faithful catholics across the country, as it did when it honored president Barack obama with an honorary degree at commencement in 2009. 
Joe Biden is a catholic who served as one of delaware’s two senators for 36 years before becom­ing vice president in 2009. during his years in the senate, he was undoubtedly one of the most rabidly partisan senators. he did more than anyone in washington to turn the confirmation process for supreme court nominees into a political blood­bath. he has repeatedly applauded the supreme court’s ruling in roe v. wade. For some of his years in the senate, he received a zero rating from pro-life groups. it was not always so. early in his career Biden opposed abortion. By the mid-1980s, howev­er, he had evolved out of what he called a youthful reliance upon his catholic faith, a reliance he now repudiates. 
Biden supports federal funding for embryonic stem cell research and voted against a ban on hu­man cloning. he embraces same-sex marriage and the hhs mandate, which requires religious institu­tions such as notre dame to facilitate coverage of contraceptives and abortifacients under its health­care plans — notre dame itself is suing the federal government for relief from this mandate. Biden’s positions on all these issues are directly contrary to church teaching. his public service has not been “to the church,” but largely against the church. 
The united states bishops write, “The catholic community and catholic institutions should not honor those who act in defiance of our fundamen­tal moral principles. They should not be given awards, honors or platforms which would suggest support for their actions.” 
we object to notre dame’s decision to honor vice president Biden with the laetare medal. giving the award to speaker Boehner at the same time does not alleviate the scandal committed by the university’s blatant disregard for the injunction of the catholic bishops. 
as students of this university, some of whom will graduate in may, we are disappointed notre dame has failed in this instance to live up to its catholic mission. we deserve to see the laetare medal given to an american catholic who merits it by having served as an outstanding example for catholics and having performed real service to the church in this 
country. 

Tim Bradley 
senior 
Alexandra DeSanctis 
senior 
Christina Gotcher 
senior 
Sophia Buono 
sophomore 
Hailey Vrdolyak 
senior 
John Kill 
sophomore 
Madeleine Cook 
junior 
Eileen Madigan 
sophomore 
Henry Dickman 
junior 
Michael Moss 
junior 
Joshua Gluch 
junior 
James Herrick IV senior Feb. 29 

To view the complete list of 89 signatures on this letter, visit ndsmcobserver.com 


CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: Thank matters through thoroughly. Time is on your side, so don’t let anyone push you into something you aren’t ready to explore. rely on your skills and talents to help you reach your goal. This is a year of opportunity, so do your best to let go of fear and embrace new beginnings. don’t let a challenge deter you from getting ahead. your numbers are 6, 14, 21, 27, 32, 36, 49. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): choose to get along with others and to look for healthy alternatives. look inward and find meaningful ways to make personal improvements. an interesting turn of events will improve a partnership. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): home, family and friends should be your focus. discussing plans that you want to put into play will bring you closer to the ones you love and give everyone something to look forward to. don’t procrastinate -- make it happen. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t take on responsibilities that don’t belong to you, but don’t ignore those that do. a realistic and fair approach to what you face will be the only way to get past what stands in your way. don’t overreact. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep an open mind and you will be amazed by the information you are given and how you can put it to good use in your everyday life. romance will lead to a promising adventure with someone you love to spend time with. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): show off a little. it’s in your best interest to let others know what you are capable of doing. don’t be shy when it comes to taking charge and being responsible. The difference you make will be appreciated and acknowledged. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take the initiative and do what you can to help those less fortunate. your actions will lead to an encounter with someone who can help you bring your own dreams to fruition. a partnership will fill a void you have been experiencing. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): check out every option before making a decision. Take your time and observe what’s going on around you. don’t let anyone make you feel as if you are being left behind. do things on your own terms and at your own pace. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): get involved in something you’ve never done before. new or unusual experiences will get your creative imagination flowing and encourage you to follow through with an idea that could turn in to a moneymaker. love is highlighted. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): expect to face opposition from someone who is trying to control your life. it’s likely that you’ll have to make unexpected alterations to the way you live. protect your assets, possessions, your reputation and your health. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you don’t have to join in if someone makes a last-minute change that disrupts your plans. look for a way to carry on and you won’t miss out on something you want to do. you’ll obtain valuable insight from an unusual encounter. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): revisit an idea and tweak it to fit the current trends. your ingenuity and desire to do something unique will help you forge ahead. high energy coupled with discipline will be your ticket to success. personal improvements will be satisfying. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): put the skills and talents you are passionate about in to play, and you will come out a winner. your ability to wow others with your unique approach to life will result in a partnership and profitable joint venture. 


Birthday Baby: you are compassionate, intuitive and expressive. you are proactive and precise. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. Box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | The oBserver 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

March Madness inspires reflection 

Zach Klonsinski 
assistant managing editor 
with march madness finally underway, we’ve reached one of my favorite points on the sports calendar. instead of trying to make sense of this year’s chaotic tournament, however, i thought i’d try something a little different. 
Below is my personal ranking of the best events on the (roughly) annual sports calendar. 
10.) army-navy football game 
passion. That’s the word i’d use to sum up army-navy and kick off the countdown. sure, it’s only a few hours, but american flags, flyovers, fireworks and even hand-painted helmets (please keep those, navy!) all make this one of the greatest spectacles in the american sports world. while they’ll rarely have the caliber of player that is fit to win a heisman on the field (Keenan reynolds got snubbed), there’s still raw pas­sion on the field over who sings second, even if it’s been “anchors away” the last 14 years. 
9.) The first The masters com­mercial of the year 
yes, it’s about five seconds long (if that), and, no, there’s not exact­ly a date this always happens — i usually see it around the nFl’s conference championships or super Bowl — but the instant the piano version of dave loggins’ “augusta” comes on, there’s hope that spring is just around the corner and images of azaleas in bloom lift me briefly into golf heaven. 
8.) The Kentucky derby 
like The masters’ theme song, the Kentucky derby is a short ex­perience: i only religiously watch “my old Kentucky home,” the call to post, and the race itself. But its reputation as the fastest two minutes in sports never disap­points. while not on this list, the Belmont stakes also make the cut it in years where there’s a Triple crown threat. 
7.) The open championship at st. andrews 
although the open at st. andrews isn’t a yearly event ei­ther, it still easily makes my top 
10. if it were annual instead of unofficially every five years, it would be much higher on this list. regardless, returning to the home of golf and watching players cross the swilcan Bridge is, simply, special. 
6.) women’s world cup 
To further highlight just how ignorantly american i am of the FiFa world cups, i actually find myself more invested in the wom­en’s version. Being a newcomer to the soccer — er, football — world, the men’s tournament might supplant it in the coming years for me, but i’ve been vastly more in­vested in the women’s version be­cause the united states has found success in recent tournaments. 
5.) The summer olympics 
This is basically army-navy, but on a longer, grander and in­ternational scale. The pageantry of the opening and closing cer­emonies coupled with all of the different competitions and raw emotions every event evokes is second to none in the sports world. The only choice i had to make was which version i enjoyed more. … 
4.) The winter olympics 
… and for me, that choice wasn’t difficult. i’ll admit i’m bi­ased toward winter events, living in cold areas for most of my life, but i find myself more invested in the winter olympics. hockey, i’m sure, is a large reason why, but even “mundane” events like cross-country skiing and curl­ing hook me. you really can’t go wrong either way, but give me the cold. 
3.) First four days of march madness 
distinguishing between the second and third spots on this list was extremely difficult, but in the end, lingering views on the amateur debate finally won out for me. still, the first four days (excluding the games in dayton) of the tournament almost always provide the greatest underdog stories of the sports year on a non­stop basis. it loses its luster once my teams and the cinderellas are out, but there’s no other four-day sporting event i’d want to watch more. well, almost. 
2.) The masters 
This shouldn’t be a surprise given no. 9, but The masters cap­ture every sort of emotion for me. history, nostalgia, tranquility, the beauty of nature and the arrival of spring all combine beautifully. oh, yeah and there’s the golf part, too. and Jim nantz’ “hello friends. welcome to a tradition unlike any other.” and the green jacket, one of the most iconic tro­phies in sports, trailing only no. 1 on this list. 
1.) First round of the stanley cup playoffs 
The only debate i had about the top spot in my countdown was whether to include the whole stanley cup playoffs or just a part. The entirety of the playoffs felt too long for this list, so then it came down to the first round or the Finals. i chose the latter because, in the spirit of the first four days of march madness that inspired this list to begin with, the first round is full of non-stop hockey featuring four games every night for a week and a half between the best teams and players in the world. For me, there simply isn’t a greater stretch in the world of sports. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at  zklonsin@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

SMC GOLF | george Fox inviTaTional 
Belles optimistic after first spring tournament 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 

saint mary’s traveled to peoria, arizona to participate in the george Fox invitational held at westbrook village golf course on saturday and sunday. 
The Belles combined to shoot a 90-over-par 658 to finish eighth out of the eight participating teams over the two-day tour­nament. The winning team, george Fox university, finished 65 shots ahead of saint mary’s with a 28-over-par 596. saint mary’s head coach Kim moore was optimistic about the Belles’ performance at the george Fox invitational, though. 
“i would say i thought it was a success,” moore said. “i know we didn’t finish very high, but this tournament was mainly for us to get a chance to practice and play outside. The competition at this event was very strong and the ma­jority of the teams had opportuni­ties to play outside before arriving, and we did not. our overall team score was better than last year at this time, and we had some very respectable scores on a course that played a little longer then we were used to at 5,940 yards. 
“ … obviously, there were shots left out there and not everyone played their best, but we are look­ing forward to the next couple weeks of practice and getting prepared for our next event in st. louis.” 
The two day tournament was the first event of the spring sea­son for the Belles who are look­ing to improve on a fourth place finish in the miaa conference last season. Freshman Taylor Kehoe, an important part of the team’s success in the fall season averaging the third-best 18-hole score on the team, led the way for the Belles posting a first round 10-over-par 81 and a second round eight-over-par 79 putting her in a tie for 21st place individu­ally. Junior captain ali mahoney finished second for the Belles with scores of nine-over-par 80 and 14-over-par 85. Junior captain courtney carlson rounded out the Belles lineup with an overall score of 24-over-par 166, while se­niors Katie Zielinski and sammie averill hit 29-over-par 171s. sophomores Kelsey conkright, isabella speedon and courtney Quinlan also participated as indi­vidual players. conkright carded her collegiate best on sunday, posting a 79 on the final day of the tournament. 
The Belles have three more tournaments before entering into competition for the miaa’s auto­matic bid to nationals. 
The Belles’ next tournament, the st. louis invitational hosted by washington university, will take place at the beginning of april at gateway national golf links where the Belles will look to bounce back against another solid field. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 

SMC LACROSSE | smc 17, concordia chicago 2 
Saint Mary’s breaks four records in win 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 

on wednesday evening, saint mary’s picked up a win in domi­nating fashion on the road, as the Belles cruised to a 17-2 victory over concordia chicago. 
The game started off with a face-off win by saint mary’s freshman midfielder Kate Kelly, and the Belles took little time get­ting on the scoreboard as sopho­more midfielder clare Theisen buried a shot in the back of the net with barely over one minute on the clock. For Theisen, the open­ing score was her tenth goal of the season. 
This set the tone for the entire game as the Belles (2-2) contin­ued to dominate on face-offs throughout the entire game. Freshman attack molly stout net­ted her fourth goal of the season just a couple minutes later and her fifth goal ten minutes after that. 
The next few minutes saw a bar­rage of goals by the Belles coming from Theisen, Kelly and junior attack lauren Telford and sopho­more attack hanna makowski. 
The struggles would continue to pile up for concordia chicago (0­
7) as it faced difficulties gaining control of the ball, evidenced by the Belles’ 12-0 lead at the half. 
saint mary’s tacked on another goal to start the second half to make it 13-0 before the cougars finally got on the board. seven different Belles were able to net at least one goal while four play­ers scored at least three goals. Kate Kelly led the way with four goals while Theisen, Telford and makowski all added three goals. Freshman midfielder rachael leonard also tallied a school-re­cord three assists in the win. 
Ball possession was a key for the saint mary’s victory. The Belles finished the game with 30-20 ad­vantage in ground balls over the cougars; the team also outshot its opponent 36-9 during the game. 
saint mary’s head coach amy long said she was pleased with her team’s performance. 
“we played well last night,” long said. “many of the ideas and strategies we have been work­ing on in practice were executed very well last night. our motion on attack is looking much better and i was excited we had such a high scoring output. our defense played a solid game and lim­ited the scoring opportunities for concordia chicago, which made for a great night in goal for both of our goalies.” 
The Belles were able to break a couple of records throughout the game, as the 15 goal differential marked the largest margin of vic­tory in the program’s history. in addition, saint mary’s 17 goals were the most scored in a single game, while the two goals against the team mark the fewest number of goals given up. 
Following the victory, the Belles are now 2-2 on the year, and they will be looking to improve further as they head to ohio northern on saturday. 
“i expect our team to be chal­lenged more than we were in last night’s game,” long said. “i also expect our team to rise to the challenge and play a great game against a stronger opponent.” 
The game against the polar Bears is set to begin at 1 p.m. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 



The oBserver | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame to welcome Wake Forest in ACC play  

Observer Staff Report 
after a trip to the caribbean where they swept liu Brooklyn, notre dame returns to acc action Friday against wake Forest at eck Tennis pavilion. 
Before the trip to puerto rico, the irish (9-5, 3-2 acc) hit a rough patch, losing two consecutive matches to syracuse and miami after accumulating a four-match winning streak. The irish now sit at 3-2 in acc play and will look to improve their conference record against the demon deacons (12-4, 2-3 acc). The last time the irish and the demon deacons went head-to-head, notre dame came away with a 7-0 victory april 3 of last year in winston-salem, north carolina. 
The demon deacons started their season by winning nine consecu­tive matches. since then, however, the team has lost three of its last five, includ­ing two in a row against no. 19 georgia Tech and no. 3 north carolina. 
after they play notre dame on Friday, wake Forest’s tough stretch of matches continues at home against no. 10 virginia on sunday. 
notre dame also enters the heart of its acc sched­ule after Friday afternoon’s matchup, as the irish travel to take on north carolina state and north carolina before facing no. 8 duke on april 3. 
The irish have momentum, however, after sweeping the Blackbirds (0-8) in puerto rico by a score of 7-0. all six irish singles matches were decided in two sets, and ju­nior mary closs did not lose a single game. 

against wake Forest, notre dame will look for its top two athletes, senior Quinn gleason and junior monica robinson, to deliver strong performances. gleason is 14-6 in singles play this year, while robinson is 12-5. The pair is also notre dame’s no. 1 doubles team with an 8-6 record on the season. 
The irish also sport an emerging sophomore in west chester, ohio native Brooke Broda. Broda is 16-1 on the year, including a record of 10-0 in dual play. Broda has played in the no. 5 singles spot for the irish up to this point in the season. 
notre dame is set to kick of its match against wake Forest on Friday at 3:30 p.m. at courtney Tennis center. 
Baseball 
conTinued From page 12 

needs some experience out there. so i feel good about where we’re at.” 
north carolina state, meanwhile, split a two-game series against indiana state at home this past Tuesday and wednesday, dropping wednesday’s contest against the sycamores, 11-7. 
Both the wolfpack and the irish sit near the bottom of the conference standings now, but despite notre dame’s three losses to the cardinals (15-2, 3-0), aoki said he still took some positives away from the series, as the irish lost two games by a single run and nearly matched last year’s conference champion blow for blow. 
“i thought save for the first inning of the second game, we pitched it incredibly well all weekend long, and i thought we defended it — again, save for that one in­ning … very well,” aoki said after the losses to louisville. “i thought our at-bats all-weekend long were incred­ibly competitive against a really elite pitching staff, which aside from that one inning i thought we matched them pitch for pitch essen­tially. and so i’ve been really encouraged by the way in which we’ve competed.” 
despite that, aoki is shuf­fling his rotation slightly this weekend. Junior right-hand­er ryan smoyer will start the first game as he did against louisville, but sophomore left-hander sean guenther will move up from the final game of the series to the sec­ond, while sophomore right-hander Brandon Bielak will be bumped in favor of junior left-hander scott Tully. 
vierling might come in for relief as he did against Toledo, but he is also one of notre dame’s top offensive weapons, batting .304 in 15 starts this year with two home runs, tied for the team lead with fellow freshman outfielder connor stutts, who collected one of his long balls against the rockets on wednesday. 
notre dame faces north carolina state in its second acc series of the year this weekend at doak Field at dail park in raleigh, north carolina. First pitch is sched­uled for 6:30 p.m. Friday and saturday and 1 p.m. sunday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 



W Golf 
conTinued From page 12 
to contend come the final round.” 
after last week’s perfor­mance, the irish have had a week of practice and prepa­ration to get ready for their biggest test yet. 
“we just need to play three solid rounds, and the girls know that,” holt said. “we didn’t get that done out in arizona, but i feel good, es­pecially in the fact that we got better each day and a couple of our players know the lsu course and have played it. we’ve got three freshmen in the lineup that will be there for the first time, but it’s been that way for them all season with ev­ery course they’ve played, and they’ve been pretty quick to adjust and learn the golf course so i think we will be fine.” 
The Tiger classic will pro­vide an important stepping stone for the team as the conference and national tournaments loom on the horizon. it will be the first times the irish have faced multiple acc foes at once, and holt said it should serve as a good measuring stick heading forward. 

“every time we compete, it’s just gaining a little bit more experience — like i said, we have three fresh­men in the lineup,” holt said. “i think it will help us to see where we are at with the top teams in the confer­ence there, so it is just a good test for us all around.” 
The irish will compete in the lsu Tiger classic this sunday through Tuesday. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 


M Tennis 
conTinued From page 12 
a string of three losses. The hurricanes will face Boston college before play­ing the irish on sunday. The irish are 2-0 against the hurricanes under sachire. against two conference op­ponents, sachire said the team will look to improve offensively after working on doubles play over the break. 
“we have been working hard on our offensive plays and our ability to attack our opponents,” sachire said. “in addition, we have spent some time getting our doubles back up to the level we were playing at prior to spring break.” 
notre dame’s season has been inconsistent thus far, containing a three-game winning streak and a four-game losing streak. accordingly, another as­pect of notre dame’s game sachire said the team has been working to improve is its mental toughness. 

“one of the main goals that we have is to have our players be able to main­tain focus on their tactics and game plan during the most pressure-packed situ­ations in a match, and ul­timately, not allow their focus to drift away from what it takes to be success­ful in the key moments of a match,” sachire said. 
senior alex lawson looks to factor big in notre dame’s upcoming acc matches. lawson has been climbing up the all-time irish doubles win list, and is now tied at 3rd place with 88 total wins. ahead of lawson on the all-time wins list are former play­ers Jakub pietrowski with 95 wins and greg andrews with 93. 
if the weather allows it, notre dame will play in the courtney Tennis center against duke at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, and against miami at noon sunday. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at jbrebeck@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT ndsmcoBserver.com | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | The oBserver 


Softball 
conTinued From page 12 

base to start the bottom half of the inning for notre dame. Two batters later, freshman third baseman melissa rochford, the reign­ing acc player of the week, singled to right-center field to score wester and give the irish a 1-0 lead. 
notre dame kept attacking in the frame, as senior first baseman micaela arizmendi knocked in two runs with a single to right field. Three batters later, senior right fielder megan sorlie lined a bases-loaded double to the right-field gap and was driven in by the next batter, sophomore left fielder Bailey Bigler, to extend notre dame’s lead to 7-0. 
“one of the things we’ve done really well, typically, is getting off to a strong start,” irish head coach deanna gumpf said. “i actually like being visitor, we’ve done a really great job of being visitor this year because we score first. … For us to come back and score all those runs changes the whole dynamic of the game.” 
sorlie’s double prompt­ed the Falcons to change pitchers, as senior Braiden dillow replaced the strug­gling starter, junior Briania combs. 
after building a large lead in the first inning, the irish sailed smoothly the rest of the way. nasland retired the side in both the second and the third innings and finished her day with three strikeouts while picking up her seventh win of the season. 
“i loved rachel [nasland] today,” gumpf said. “did they hit the ball a couple of times? yeah, but she got them to do what she wanted them to do, and rachel had really great presence on the mound.” 
The irish ran into a rough patch in the fourth inning when sophomore Katie Beriont replaced nasland on the mound. The Falcons got runners on first and second base, but rochford turned a double play to end the inning. 
“i liked the way Katie came in, and she got us some ground balls,” gumpf said. “i don’t think she was very sharp in the [fourth] inning, but she still got away with it, and that’s a really good sign. The [fifth] inning she did a much better job.” 
notre dame added to its lead in the bottom of the fourth inning. wester reached on an infield single and stole her 21st base of the season before scoring on an error by Falcon’s senior right fielder marina cobbs. Two batters later, sopho­more shortstop morgan reed scorched a double down the right-field line to plate an­other two irish runners and put notre dame up 10-0. 
The game ended one in­ning later via mercy rule. 

six irish players tallied at least one rBi in the game, and seven players recorded at least one hit. gumpf said the key to the team’s offense is its ability to stay within itself. 
“i think we’re not trying to do too much,” gumpf said. “i think we are the most suc­cessful offensively when we know what works for us and stay in our ballgame. i think our team’s done a great job of figuring out what really works for us.” 
notre dame will continue its homestand and extend its 18-game winning streak next week when the irish face eastern michigan on Tuesday followed by michigan state on wednesday. gumpf said she is excited for the home-stand because the team has been on the road for the last couple of weeks. 
“it feels really nice to be home,” gumpf said. “There’s nothing like playing in melissa cook stadium. There are so many advantages of being here. number one, we get to sleep in our own beds. number two, we know this field so very well. number three, we’re comfortable here, and i think it’s tough­er for teams to come in here and play us here because it’s such a great place to play.” 
Tuesday’s first pitch be­tween the irish and eagles is set for 5 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish sophomore shortstop Morgan Reed fields a grounder during Notre Dame’s 10-0 win over Bowling Green on Thursday at Melissa Cook Stadium. Reed drove in two runs for the Irish in the victory. 

The oBserver | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcoBserver.com 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 10, Bowling green 0  BASEBALL  
Complete team effort  squad readies   
leads Irish to victory  for wolfpack  

By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
after nearly a month of road games, no. 19 notre dame grabbed a 10-0 victory in its home opener Thursday night against Bowling green. 
with the win, the irish (22­3, 3-0 acc) improved their all-time record against the Falcons (11-11, 0-0 mac) to 15-6. 
Junior rachel nasland started on the mound for the irish and faced some trouble early on. after striking out the Falcons’ leadoff hitter, nasland gave up two consec­utive singles before striking out the next hitter and get­ting a flyout to left field to end the frame. 
riding a 17-game win­ning streak into the game, the irish wasted no time in jumping out to a lead. Junior center fielder Karley wester singled and stole second 
see soFTBall PAGE 11 

By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
Fresh off its first home game of the season, notre dame will try to carry the momen­tum from its mid-week win over Toledo onto the road as it faces no. 13 north carolina state in a three-game series this weekend. 
The irish (7-8, 0-3 acc) pounded the rockets, 10-3, on wednesday to near the .500 mark early on in the sea­son, but irish head coach mik aoki’s squad has already got­ten off to a poor start in acc play this year, getting swept by no. 5 louisville on the road last weekend. 
The wolfpack (14-5, 1-2), like the cardinals, are com­ing off an ncaa tournament berth last season, but their start to conference play in 2016 has been similar to that of the irish, as they dropped 
CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
two of three to unranked 
Boston college last weekend. 
Irish junior Rachel Nasland delivers a pitch during Notre Dame’s 

10-0 win over Bowling Green on Thursday at Melissa Cook Stadium. still, notre dame enters 
this weekend’s matchup with momentum after cruising past Toledo. The irish offense collected 12 hits, its second-highest total of the season, while senior right-hander michael hearne struck out a career-high seven batters while retiring 12 of the last 13 batters he faced. 
hearne yielded the mound after five innings, and four irish relievers revolved through to keep the door firmly closed against the rockets, a performance aoki said he was pleased with. 
“it was nice to get our bull­pen guys some work in the back half of that game,” aoki said. “[senior right-hander] dave hearne got in there for an inning, so hopefully he feels good. … [Freshman right-hander] matt vierling got in. … he gave up a home run but i think matt is a kid whose role on the mound needs to expand, and he 
see BaseBall PAGE 10 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

nd set for lsu Tiger classic 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 
notre dame will head down south this weekend for the lsu Tiger classic, a tournament boasting nationally ranked com­petition. in Baton rouge, louisiana, the irish will be up against no. 2 auburn, no. 16 oklahoma and no. 21 lsu, as well as acc foes no. 13 wake Forest, no. 17 north carolina, no. 20 duke and north carolina state. 
“i think it will be a good test for us,” irish head coach susan holt said. “it’s that time of year where we need to see where we stand among the top teams in the country trying to prepare for ncaas, so it’s a really good oppor­tunity for us to play them head-to-head, at the same time and golf course with the same conditions, and see how we match up.” 
last weekend, the irish came in fourth at the clover cup in mesa, arizona, which they hosted. The irish stum­bled in the first round of play, but managed to make up ground, ending with a team score of 10-over par 874 — 16 shots back of the winner smu. among the top performers for the irish were senior captain Talia campbell, who recorded her tenth top-10 finish of the season with an even par 216, and freshman maddie rose hamilton, who closed out a strong final-round with a score of 69 to come in 17th place with a four-over par 220. 
“we have five solid play­ers and we just need at least four of them to show up ev­ery day, and we’ve done a pretty good job of that over­all this year … and we just need to capitalize more on scoring opportunities that we present ourselves with,” holt said. “we play close, but don’t convert all of the putts that we need to, so we just need to give ourselves more opportunities to score. if we can do that, then i think we are going to have a chance 
see w golF PAGE 10 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame seeks key wins against ACC foes 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 

as notre dame enters the heart of its acc sched­ule, it will look to secure a pair of wins against duke and miami this weekend. 
“we are really excited about the opportunities this weekend,” irish head coach ryan sachire said. “Both duke and miami are great programs with really talented players, and we are looking for­ward to the challenges that we will face.” 
The Blue devils (7-8, 1-2 acc) had a rough start to their season, winning only two out of their first eight matches. however, they have been on an upswing, winning five out of their last seven games. duke is 21-28 in the all-time se­ries against the irish (8-8, 2-2 acc). miami (6-6, 1-1 acc), on the other hand, is coming into its match against notre dame after 
see m Tennis PAGE 11 

BECKI JEREN | The Observer 

Irish senior Quentin Monaghan fires a forehand during Notre Dame’s 7-0 win over Ball State on Feb. 7 at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 






