

The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

RECRUITING 

Irish out to record pace for 2017 class 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Associate sports editor 
This time last year, notre dame had five commitments in its 2016 recruiting class. 
This year, the Irish have jumped out to a quick start, with nine commitments in the class of 2017, putting them at the no. 7-ranked class thus far, per rivals. 
“The class started off pretty well,” Irish recruiting expert for blue & Gold Illustrated and rivals Andrew Ivins said. “It was kind of a faster start — they had more commits than they had ever had as early as they did this cycle when they had four or five. They lost some momentum there a couple months ago when [defensive end] robert beal decommit­ted, [but] they’ve rebounded nicely.” 
Apart from beal’s decom­mitment — which Ivins said is largely due to his desire to go to school with his sister, who did not get in to notre dame — the Irish have been largely success­ful in their effort to lock players in early in the recruiting cycle. This push, however, is not unique to notre dame and has largely changed the way the Irish recruit athletes, he added. 
“That’s kind of the new trend: to get these kids to commit earlier and earlier, and notre dame’s kind of stepped up what they’re doing with that,” Ivins said. “notre dame’s never going to push a kid to commit, but they’re doing a better job of finding the kids that they think are going to be fits, get­ting them on campus [and] get­ting them locked up early in the process.” 
And at no position has this been more clear for notre dame than linebacker, Ivins said. The Irish made a signifi­cant push this recruiting cycle at the position after missing out on the likes of caleb Kelly and ben davis last time around, and they have been able to land most of their top targets so far. 
The three linebackers who have committed thus far to notre dame — david Adams, Pete Werner and drew White 
— are expected to fill out the mike, Will and sam lineback­er spots, respectively. of the group, Ivins said Adams, who is ranked in the top 100 amongst all players per rivals, is the one who can have the most imme­diate impact for the Irish. 
“They think [Adams] is a mike linebacker, very talented high school prospect — top 100-type kid,” Ivins said. “I ex­pect him to be in the middle of the defense. he just kind of fits: blue collar, tough-mentality guy who can hit. he’s not the best in coverage, but he can stop you, and he’s going to be great in those games against the triple option.” 
Werner, however, is the play­er Ivins thinks has the most po­tential at the position for notre dame, he added. 
“he, out of those guys, prob­ably has the best upside,” Ivins said. 
Another important pickup for the Irish was dual-threat quarterback Avery davis, who was ranked the no. 72-overall prospect in the esPn 300 rank­ings. For the Irish, davis of­fers another prospect who will come in and willingly compete for playing time rather than ex­pect to inherit it, Ivins said. 
“I think what really got notre dame excited about him was that he’s a competitor,” Ivins said. “What he does is he gives you a durable body — someone that’s okay with coming in and competing for playing time, and I think that’s really im­portant for mike sanford, and that’s what he’s looking for in his quarterback room.” 
notre dame also struck gold in the tight end department, signing two of the top five play­ers at the position per rivals. despite their level of talent, signing the two athletes was relatively easy for notre dame, according to Ivins. 
“brock Wright and cole Kmet are both notre dame-type kids, so I think once notre dame re­alized that, it was easy for them to get them,” Ivins said. “but this time last year, notre dame was always planning to take a tight end in the class of 2016, but then they got a commit­ment from brock Wright really early, and they fell in love with cole Kmet, so they said, ‘We’re going to take two in 2017 and just kind of pass on the posi­tion’ last year.” 
After addressing their biggest priority in the linebacker slots and inking nine commitments thus far, notre dame will con­tinue to hit the recruiting trail throughout the rest of this sum­mer and upcoming season. 
“offensive line is the one position that’s really the big focus right now,” he said. “ … After offensive line, I think the next priority is wide receiver, and they’re going to probably take four, but right now they’ve got none committed, so it will be interesting to see how that shakes out.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out BlueandGold.com. 
Email Andrew Owens at aowens@blueandgold.com and tell him The Observer sent you. 


Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu 

COMMENTARY 


New, returning starters will forge Notre Dame’s identity 


Alex Carson 

Assistant managing editor 
notre dame returns just four offensive and five defensive starters from its 10-2 team a sea­son ago. 
There’s no Will Fuller or c.J. Prosise; no ronnie stanley or sheldon day; no Jaylon smith or Keivarae russell. 
Yet when the Irish kick off their 2016 campaign in Austin, Texas, on sept. 4, the goal will be the same as it was last year: a berth in the college Football Playoff. 
Welcome back to perennial relevance, notre dame football. 
now, Irish fans shouldn’t nec­essarily expect to see their team at the Fiesta bowl or Peach bowl 
—
 this year’s playoff semifinals 

—
 this season, but that doesn’t mean it’s exactly outside the realm of possibility. There’s still loads of talent on this team, and new pieces that could fit together even better than the ones did a season ago. 


of course, we know what notre dame’s getting at running back this year. sure, Prosise de­parted for the nFL draft, but the return of senior Tarean Folston means the Irish won’t be down­grading in the backfield. Without Fuller, chris brown or Amir carlisle, the receiving corps is weakened, but it should still be a solid group, anchored by senior Torii hunter Jr. And even though the offensive line lost three start­ers this offseason, it’s hard to see that unit being much of an issue for senior malik Zaire or junior deshone Kizer — which­ever one wins the quarterback competition. 
despite losing seven starters, the notre dame offense will be fine. 
but if the Irish are going to get to the playoff, it’s going be on the shoulders of the defense. That’s not to say the unit needs to be great like the 2012 one was 
— this season’s offense should be much better than that team’s was — but it can’t be as poor as it was at times a season ago. 
For me, that starts at middle linebacker, squarely on the shoulders of junior nyles morgan. 
during his first two years at notre dame, it’s no secret that morgan struggled. he’s barely seen the field at his preferred position — Joe schmidt had a lot to do with that — but when he did, the impact he made wasn’t always a positive one; just recall his block in the back penalty five yards behind a punt return at stanford. 
The major concern was wheth­er or not morgan could adapt to the complex nature of defensive coordinator brian vanGorder’s scheme. but by all accounts — head coach brian Kelly’s the most important — that hasn’t been a struggle for the crete, Illinois native this spring. 

“he’s gotten our defense lined up effortlessly,” Kelly said. “There’s been great com­munication, and he’s played extremely well. A lot of it is how hard he works at the game. It’s really important to him. his first two years here helped him im­mensely in terms of learning the defense.” 
For the first time at notre dame, morgan is the undisputed guy at his position. If he can take the “quarterback of the defense” role and thrive in it, we might finally see that high-pressure defense vanGorder’s arrival in 2014 promised. 
Like Folston’s on the other side of the ball, graduate student defensive lineman Jarron Jones’ return from injury should help lessen the blow of losing day, while there’s a lot of promise throughout the secondary. 
notre dame has experienced a lot of turnover heading into 2016 
— though Irish fans will hope the turnovers disappear — and that means there’s a fresh start for this team headed into the blue-Gold Game on saturday. It’s tough to see how it’s all going to come together for this squad, and at this point, that’s quite fine. early challenges at Texas on sept. 4 and against michigan state on sept. 17 mean it’ll need to find its identity pretty early on, but it’s not too hard to see how everything could gel perfectly, or horribly, for this unit. 

At the end of the day, the 2015 squad got as far as that group of players was going to. They were good — really good — but not great. 
There’s not too much evidence yet on the 2016 squad. And as daunting as that notion might be, there’s certainly a chance this group thrives together. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 

The views experessed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 


Now leasing for 2016-2017 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | The observer 


reins with the unknown Kizer tak-taken over his class, but at the end 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

Assistant managing editor ing third team reps, far out of the of the day, you have to be able to 
picture. take the relationships you have 
everyone experiences inexpli-Irish fans will remember how and the knowledge you have of cable flashes of déjà vu during the story went from there. each person on a team and be able their lives. still, this year does have its to lead through that.” 
As notre dame closes out the unique qualities: Zaire and Kizer, “[Kizer]’s been doing a good spring practice schedule, Irish who haven’t earned their degrees job, taking advantage of the op-players, coaches and fans find yet, would have to sit out a year if portunity he’s gotten,” Zaire said. themselves in the midst of one either decided to transfer, unlike “I can’t do anything but continue such moment. Golson, who was able to take ad-to support my teammates. I think 
not that it’s necessarily a bad vantage of the ncAA’s graduate it would only be destructive if I thing, especially when the déjà vu transfer rule to earn the starting didn’t support guys that were do-is having more talent at the quar-job at Florida state last season. so ing well. It’s all about winning terback position than you know there are no outside incentives a championship and things fall what to do with. luring one or the other away from where they may.” 
“Let’s be honest, all three guys, the competition. one thing Kelly has stressed as you put a blue jersey on them, of course, to hear them discuss spring practice has progressed, they’re pretty exciting,” Irish co-the competition, transferring was however, is the need for notre offensive coordinator and quar-never an option either considered dame to find its identity as it be­terbacks coach mike sanford said anyway. gins the 2016 season. That starts following practice march 21. “And “I’m just excited to be back out with a clear no. 1 at the quarter­we’ve seen all three of them on there, another opportunity to back position, a lesson Kelly said saturdays do it.” compete and have some fun, play he learned from watching the 
It’s been the biggest storyline of the game that we came here to chaos at the helm of the ohio state the spring and will continue to be play,” Kizer said march 18, follow-offense for most of last season. “but I can’t keep them all happy, pre-snap,” sanford said. “I think so through the dog days of sum-ing the first week of spring ball. “It seemed to me that ohio and we’re not going to go into the that’s one thing, just being com-mer and into fall camp, perhaps “obviously, it’s a different situa-state found their identity after season with a team that does not fortable, just being smooth with until the final hours before notre tion than it was last year, but you the michigan state game, where have an identity. We’re going to what he does. That’s one thing, he dame’s season opener against kinda have to expect that when I think in a lot of ways ezekiel have an identity as to who we are, looks smooth right now. Texas on sept. 4. you’re at school like this.” elliott can be credited with wak-and it doesn’t mean we can’t play “With deshone, his smooth-
It might even be such a tightly “I don’t compete with people. I ing up their entire coaching staff more than one quarterback, but ness, his intellect, the reps he got guarded secret that it’s only fi-compete with myself to get better,” and saying, ‘Who are we?’” Kelly we’ll have a quarterback and we’ll not only in practice but in games, nally answered by watching who Zaire said the same day. “I’m look-said following practice April 6. “so get that established.” that’s showing up big time in his trots out with the other 10 offen-ing to be the best that I can be all I think the lessons learned there Getting to that point serves as experience. … The great part sive players onto the darrel K. the time and be the best quarter-are, ‘What’s your identity going to a reminder of the complexities of about being a 6-foot-5 quarterback royal — Texas memorial stadium back in the country. I don’t know be?’ And they clearly decided who position competitions in the 21st is your vision’s incredible, but the turf in Austin, Texas: senior lefty what competition that they feel is they were going to be after that century. downside of that is that you have malik Zaire or junior right-hander out there. but I do know it’s good game. They went with [J.T. barrett] “We’re charting third-down to be completely fine-tuned me­deshone Kizer. being around the team and good and said, ‘This is what we’re going completions, everything that has chanically or things can go awry. 
What started as an open three-being with the guys and working to be,’ and that’s who they were to do with third downs, red zone, so we’ve been working with him, horse race — with sophomore all the time and getting right be-against us [in the Fiesta bowl]. when we get into backed-up situ-and he did a good job working on brandon Wimbush being includ-cause we got a tough schedule this “so I’ll make sure that doesn’t ations, two-minute situations,” it in the off-season, of tightening ed in the fray, although never too year. We gotta put a lot together to happen to us.” sanford said. “All those situations everything up and staying lower seriously — has at least been whit-get a lot done.” That said, Kelly has emphasized really are what separate the great to the ground on his delivery, and tled down to two, listening to Irish both quarterbacks said they that the decision won’t be made ones from the guys who are a 10-it’s showing up.” head coach brian Kelly’s more re-are also aware they need to keep this spring. win quarterback, and we want to sanford also said he’s excited cent thoughts on the matter. the team united if the Irish want “I don’t think we’ll make a de-be above and beyond that.” with the “immense” growth from 
nonetheless, watching two to reach the standard the football cision after spring,” Kelly said. “I despite rumors he was being Wimbush so far this spring as well. players lay claim to the position program at notre dame is held to. will say this, I mean the two quar-considered for head coaching po-“It’s funny even today at prac­with a third on the outside biding “Part of being quarterback is terbacks are really good players. sitions around college football, tice there was a time where you his time is a situation notre dame knowing how to lead and under-… They’re both no. 1s. They both sanford returns for his second could tell he’s starting to play doesn’t need to look far into its standing the game and the guys probably can’t play at the same season with the Irish, meaning football, and he’s starting to just past to find: Last season, everett around you,” Kizer said. “malik time. so one’s going to have to be he’ll be the first coach Zaire and go out there and execute what we Golson and Zaire were locked in has good relationships with a lot of the starter, and somebody is going Kizer have had for more than one want from a detail standpoint as a duel for control of the offensive the guys, and brandon has really to be unhappy. season in their careers at notre opposed to always feeling like he’s 
dame. behind the eight-ball,” sanford 
“Three [quarterbacks coaches] said. “now he’s anticipating, he’s 
in three years, that was a lot to managing protections really well. 
deal with,” Zaire admitted. “but I he’s out there playing, and it’s fun 
grew a lot in those three in three to watch when he’s completely di­
years and having somebody that’s aled into what he’s doing and he’s 
still here and didn’t decide to playing free.” 

take a great position somewhere regardless of who’s under cen­
else I think there’s an apprecia-ter — or, probably more accurately 
tion on the fact that we can con-for notre dame, catching the shot­
tinue to work and build on our gun snap — sanford said the rest 
relationship.” of the pieces will be in place when 
sanford, for his part, said he has the Irish meet the Longhorns un­
been able to dive deeper into each der the lights on the first sunday 
player’s needs as he begins year night of september. 

two. “If we play championship-cali­
“I think for [Zaire], a day like to-ber football at the quarterback po­
day, he just did a great job of letting sition, we know we can win one.” 
the game come to him and not try­
ing to be too ambitious and not try Contact Zach Klonsinski at 
to make too many things happen zklonsin@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Zach Klonsinski 
Assistant managing editor 

 With this year’s squad losing a lot of talent to grad­uation and the nFL draft, the Irish will need to find a way to account for Will Fuller’s production at receiv­er, prevent the big plays that burned the secondary last season and, most importantly, figure out a way to stay healthy for once. 
between Texas, michigan state, stanford and Usc, notre dame will drop at least one game, which would keep it in the college Football Playoff discussion. 
That said, I don’t see it happening: the Irish will fall to michigan state and Usc, as well as the usual one game a year they shouldn’t lose and do. circle a let­down in raleigh, north carolina, the week before the revenge game against stanford as the scariest game of the year. 
REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 9-3 


Alex Carson 
Assistant managing editor 

This year’s Irish squad will be led by a crew of new faces, but that doesn’t mean a return to the playoff discussion isn’t outside the realm of possi­bility. notre dame’s schedule is solid, but not pro­hibitively difficult, the perfect spot to be in. 
but it’s tough to say too much until we see how the pieces fit together. can nyles morgan step up to lead the defense? Who’s the quarterback — malik Zaire or deshone Kizer? Will the offensive line hold strong? can the Irish get a pass rush going? 
At the end of the day, I think this team is one year away from truly contending for a national title. The Irish reach a second straight new Year’s six bowl, however, after a season-ending win at Usc. 

REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 10-2 

Marek Mazurek 
sports editor 

This year’s Irish squad resembles a Ferrari — a lot of flash, but not a lot of mileage or substance. 
Yes notre dame will score points. It’s hard not to do that with two nFL bound running backs and a speedy receiving corps. no matter who leads the of­fense, whether it be Kizer or Zaire, scoring will not be an issue.
 The problem is the defense. With virtually every leader gone from last year, the defense is younger and less tested than it’s been in recent memory. And if brian vanGorder’s group came up short with Jaylon smith, sheldon day and elijah shumate, a nyles morgan led defense doesn’t give me any sort of optimism.
 A relatively easy schedule could remedy some of these problems, but a playoff push is out of the question. 

REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 10-2 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | The observer 



Ben Padanilam 
Associate sports editor 

notre dame has talent on both sides of the ball, that’s part of the certainty that comes with being notre dame. but out­side of that, there’s serious question marks surrounding this team. Who will be quarterback? can anyone fill the void left by Will Fuller at receiver? Will a less-experienced defense be able to grasp brian vanGorder’s complicated schemes? 
certainly, the schedule has its soft spots. but even with­out their quarterbacks from last season, michigan state and Usc will be difficult games for notre dame. miami and Texas are wild card teams, both capable of giving the Irish a run for their money. And stanford will compete for a na­tional title this season. 
With all that talent on the roster, notre dame will have plenty of moments this season. but it will also have its pitfalls. 

REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 9-3 


Renee Griffin 
sports Writer 

Whether it’s malik Zaire or deshone Kizer or some combination of the two at the helm this fall, it seems al­most certain that the notre dame offense will be able to put up a lot of points, especially given the presence of se­nior running back Tarean Folston. 
In today’s game – and taking into account the 2016 schedule – a lot of points should mean a lot of wins, as long as the defense is solid. With no established stars like Jaylon smith, there are no guarantees, but there is prom­ise at every defensive position. notre dame’s success this year hinges on how much promise materializes into production. 
The Irish are far from unbeatable, but also capable of defeating anyone on any given saturday. or sunday, if it’s Texas. 

REGULAR SEASON RECORD: 11-1 


The observer | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Irish receiving corps looks to fill big shoes 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
Fans of last year’s notre dame team will have fond memories of the 2015 receiv­ing corps. 
between Will Fuller averag­ing over 20 yards per catch, Amir carlisle getting open from the slot position and chris brown making clutch catches, receiver was one of notre dame’s strongest posi­tion groups. 
entering spring practices however, one thing is clear: change is coming. 
Fuller, brown and carlisle are all gone chasing nFL ca­reers, and with them go 2,210 of notre dame’s 3,364 re­ceiving yards from last year. Additionally, the team’s cur­rent leader in receiving yards, senior corey robinson, un­derwent a medical evalua­tion for a concussion Tuesday and there’s been no word if he’s been cleared to return to spring practices. 
The good news for the Irish, however, is that there are a number of players vying to fill the vacancies on the depth chart. 
And they’re fast. 
“What we do have is a tre­mendous combination at the position of some guys who are longer, some guys who are faster, some guys — the shorter guys might be a little faster than the longer guys — but all of the guys have the ability to make plays down the field,” Irish associate head coach and receivers coach mike denbrock said on march 

21. “now, they might not be running 10 yards away from the corner who was trying to cover them like Will [Fuller] did at times, but they still have the ability to create explosive plays.” 
one player in particular who looks to make a splash in the 2016-2017 campaign is se­nior Torii hunter Jr. At 6-feet tall, hunter has the ability to play either outside or in the slot. Wherever he plays, how­ever, hunter is poised to be the team’s first option. 
“I think he is smoother, and he appears to be run­ning pretty fast down the field when he’s out there route run­ning,” denbrock said. “he can give us — maybe not exactly the same things we got from the overall electric speed of a Will Fuller, but he can give us down the field opportunities.” 
As one of two seniors on the receiving corps, hunter also figures to step into a leader­ship role. 
“I think Torii hunter has done a good job of step­ping up, being a leader of the group, along with corey robinson,” sophomore receiv­er equanimeous st. brown said. 
behind hunter, st. brown and junior corey holmes ap­pear to be favorites to make a run at starting jobs. The 6-foot-4, 205-pound st. brown was a four-star recruit coming out of high school but totaled only one catch for eight yards last season. 
holmes too, was a four-star recruit coming out of high school and appeared in two games during the 2014 sea­son before being redshirted last year. Like hunter and st. brown, holmes’ biggest strength is his speed — the 6-foot, 190-pound receiver was clocked at 4.39 seconds in the 40-yard dash for notre dame. 


“I think trusting my speed is a big thing, holmes said. “my dad used to tell me all the time, ‘Just trust your speed. You’re fast, just trust it.’ At times, I kinda get caught up trying to make people miss and stuff and [I] don’t re­ally show my speed at times. That’s really all it is, pushing myself and running full speed all the time.” 
With hunter, st. brown and holmes in the game at the same time, the Irish can field one of the fastest receiving corps in the nation. And with robinson and sophomore tight end Alizé Jones provid­ing height for red zone targets, the Irish look to be in good shape. 
In theory at least. 
With the departure of last year’s players, the receiving core entering saturday’s blue and Gold game will be the least tested in recent mem­ory, with only hunter seeing significant playing time last year. And while all three can­didates have impressive speed and natural talent, making that talent translate will be denbrock’s top priority in the fall, he said. 

“It’s always interesting run­ning on a clock and then run­ning when you have a helmet on and shoulder pads on, and some guys play at different speeds depending,” denbrock said of holmes’ game on march 21. “[holmes has] done a much better job here in the last year ... of learning how to play fast. he’s translated that better than he has at any point so far. he just needs to contin­ue to be reminded.” 
Growing pains are to be expected, but if the Irish can overcome them early in the year, this group has the chance to be as explosive as last year’s. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 2016 | The observer 




Secondary picture still fluid as spring closes 

EMMET FARNAN | The Observer 
Irish senior safety Max Redfield takes down Pittsburgh quarterback Nate Peterman during Notre Dame’s 42-30 win over the Panthers at Heinz Field in Pittsburgh. Redfield, who missed the Fiesta Bowl defeat to Ohio State after violating team rules, is one of five returning starters for the Irish on defense heading into the 2016 season. 
look to solidify a major role in a confident mindset despite stiff where we want him to play.” in January after violating team 
By RENEE GRIFFIN 

sports Writer the secondary in their blue-Gold competition around him, he crawford is one of three de-rules, he figures to help Luke game showings. said. fensive backs who return after and Tranquill fill the leadership 
The images of ohio state run-“everyone is challenging for “I’m a starter. In my mind I’m suffering season-ending injuries voids created by the departures ning and passing all over an the starting spots and we know a starter. That’s how I feel, that’s early on in 2015. The other two of Farley and russell. injury-wracked Irish secondary we’re going to have to play eight the confidence you have to have are junior safety drue Tranquill “I’ve been waiting for this for in the Fiesta bowl have hardly guys deep across the board, es-to play the position,” Watkins and graduate student safety a long time,” redfield said. “I’m faded, making the open com-pecially with our nickel and dime said. “We’re all challenging each Avery sebastian. comfortable not being a leader, petitions at the cornerback and package,” Lyght said. “everyone other. …We encourage each oth-Tranquill was the starter op-but I also love stepping up and safety positions this spring all is going to have a hand in making er. every rep is a competition, ev-posite shumate before he tore his having my voice being heard, the more significant. this team successful.” ery play is a competition.” AcL for the second time in two and leading by example is some-
by the end of 2015, notre senior cornerback cole Luke crawford seemed poised to years when he jumped and land-thing that I need to do. dame’s ranks of defensive backs is fighting to resume his starting start at nickel as a true freshman ed awkwardly while celebrating “… [The younger players’] were so depleted that senior re-role, but he is being pushed by before tearing his AcL last pre-a pass breakup against Georgia heads are kind of spinning, but ceiver Torii hunter Jr. got time younger cornerbacks like soph-season and is taking reps on both Tech in the third game of the 2015 we’re putting more time in than at nickel back. The departures of omores shaun crawford and the inside and outside, along season. we ever have as a secondary, and top cornerback Keivarae russell, nick coleman and junior nick with Luke. “he’s an incredible man and we’re learning a lot together, so starting safety elijah shumate Watkins. “crawford’s playing both the athlete,” senior safety max it’s great.” and team captain and safety Watkins filled in for the in-nickel and the corner at this redfield said of Tranquill. “The early-enrollee devin studstill matthias Farley would leave the jured russell and senior devin point. he really excels on the in-whole team loves him. he gives is also making noise in practice Irish even thinner, were it not butler on the outside against side because of his football intel-everything he has. ... he’s a really at the safety position. Lyght said for the return of several veterans the buckeyes and will be back ligence,” Lyght said. “We moved intelligent guy as well, so we want that with all spots up for grabs, from injury and the additions of in 2016, though a broken left hu-cole inside so he’s picking up the him to be at his full health and even veterans like redfield have some fresh faces. merus sustained in early April nickel position. I think cole is then get him back on the field.” been pushed by his performance. 
Irish defensive backs coach will prevent him from returning one of our smarter players in the redfield is also among the cru-six more freshmen defensive Todd Lyght has expressed confi-to practice until summer work-back end, and he’s doing a great cial returning veterans. Though backs will join studstill in bol­dence in the depth and compe-outs begin in June. job of moving inside and under-he was notably absent in ohio stering notre dame’s depth in tence of the array of players who before the injury, Watkins had standing how we do things and state’s 44-28 rout of notre dame the secondary in 2016. 

“We have some guys that are PAId AdverTIsemenT 
going to come in this fall that are going to be able to make an im­pact right away,” Lyght said. “We have to put the most athletic guys that give us a chance to make plays on the back end and guys that can prevent big plays so we can be successful defensively.” 
Lyght said a major goal for this new group will be to eliminate many of the big plays that the secondary allowed in 2015 and continue to get off the field on third down. 
“We gave up too many explo­sive plays,” Lyght said. “We have to do a better job of competing at the end of the route. We played a lot of split-safety defense, a lot of open defense, quarter-quarter half. This year, we might close them in a bit more, challenge on the perimeter. 
“… I think we were one of the top-15 defenses in the country on third down. If we can get inside the top 10, we’ll be a defense to be reckoned with.” 
Contact Renee Griffin at rgriffi6@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 




