THE INDEpENDENT TO UNCOvER NEWSpApER SERvING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REpORT SAINT MARY’S IT ACCURATELY 

vOLUME 50, ISSUE 123 | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
Town hall invites discussion on ‘China policy’ 
Student Worker Participation Committee considers effectiveness of ‘Freedom of Association’ policy 
By MEGAN VALLEY 
News Writer 
The student worker participa­tion committee (SWpC) hosted a town hall discussion on the “China policy” Wednesday night in Geddes Hall. 
Since 2001, the “Freedom of Association” policy has iden­tified 11 countries, including China, as being ineligible for the production of University merchandise. The Worker participation Committee (WpC) wrote a “Review of the Freedom of Association policy,” in May 2015, which provided recom­mendations for assessing facto­ries in China and other countries regarding worker participa­tion. One of the recommen­dations was to form a student subcommittee to the WpC, the SWpC. 

“There was a call to bring students more intentionally to the table and so we followed up that recommendation by sub­mitting a letter to Dr. Affleck-Graves in December 2015,” Matt Caponigro, secretary of the SWpC, said. “There were eight students who were particularly passionate about the issue, all kind of knew each other and we got together and offered to Dr. Affleck-Graves that we would volunteer ourselves to be on the committee, at least long enough to get a committee formed.” 
Caponigro said that in order to best represent the student body, students from a variety of fields 
see CHINA PAGE 9 



Ceremony honors ROTC students 

By SELENA PONIO 
Associate News Editor 
Army, Navy and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) units gathered on South Quad Wednesday afternoon to participate in the annual pass in Review, a symbolic display of skill, precision and patriotism. The cer­emony included a benediction by director of Campus Ministry Fr. peter Rocca, the presentation of student awards and a speech from University president Fr. John Jenkins. 

Rocca gave an opening prayer of thanksgiving for the “cadets and midshipmen who wish to serve our country and make the world a better place.” 
“We are grateful as well for the blessings of scholarship and of learning, of faith and of service,” 
see ROTC PAGE 6 


Panelists promote healthy romantic relationships 
By ANDREA VALE 
News Writer 
The Gender Relations Center hosted a panel Wednesday night in DeBartolo Hall entitled, “What would YOU do?: When a rela­tionship may not be healthy.” The panel, which featured four main speakers and interactive dialogue with audience mem­bers, closely analyzed several concerning situations within relationships and how to handle them appropriately. 
The panel was comprised of Heather Ryan, an on-campus Deputy Title IX Coordinator; Maggie Skoch, a senior resi­dent assistant (RA) and former president of National Alliance of Mental Illness at Notre DAme (NAMI-ND); Maureen Lafferty, a psychologist at the University Counseling Center; and Ben Brockman, a senior RA. 
Throughout the panel, audi­ence members were presented with specific scenarios involv­ing various types of concerning behavior. They were then asked to text in opinions on how they would handle the situation based on options presented in a  follow­up poll. Both panel members and audience members examined the poll results together and went on to engage in open discussions on the situations, behaviors and solutions presented. Audience 
see GRC pANEL PAGE 7 


Dancers prepare to compete 
By MARTHA REILLY 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Through its involvement of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students, the Ballroom Dance Club proves it takes two to tango. Members will com­pete this Saturday at the Irish Dancesport Gala at Century Center starting at 7:30 a.m. and running to 9 p.m. 
Renee Reyes, Saint Mary’s sophomore and ballroom dance club member, said learning various dance styles, such as jive, foxtrot and swing, has helped her step outside her comfort zone. 
“Dancing is a way to let loose and be myself,” Reyes said. “It’s a way to escape from the world and really appreciate the art form that it is.” 
Reyes said she enjoys the performance aspect of ball­room dance and the way it al­lows people to show off their personalities. 
“When you’re on the competi­tion floor, no one cares, and the more authentic you are, the bet­ter scores you’re going to get,” Reyes said. “You’ll be able to show your true colors.” 
The relationships she has formed with fellow dancers has been invaluable, Reyes said, and it has created a support system for her on and off the dance floor. 
“I love every single person in that club, and we have become such a family,” Reyes said. “We hang out outside of the ballroom, 
see DANCE PAGE 4 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
Margaret Hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
               Kayla Mullen  Cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Alex Carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: Clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie Galioto Viewpoint Editor: Claire Radler Sports Editor: Marek Mazurek 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Nicole Caratas Photo Editor: Caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: Susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei Cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: Mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 

post Office Information The Observer (USpS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The Observer is published at: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices pOSTMASTER Send address corrections to: The Observer p.O. Box 779 024 South Dining hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 The Observer is a member of the Associated press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


If your life was a movie, who would play you? 


Erin Kennedy 


Kylie Jungles 
junior 

senior 
Le Mans Hall 

Regina Hall 
“Connie Britton.” 

“Kerry Washington.” 

Grace McNamee 


Maeve McMahon 
first year 

first year 
McCandless Hall 

McCandless Hall 
“Yoda.” 

“Ryan Gosling.” 

Kate Lechner 


Nicole Pador 
first year 

senior 
McCandless Hall 

off campus 
“Rachel McAdams.” 

“Mindy Kaling.” 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Rachel O’Grady Marek Mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: Martha Reilly Maureen Schweninger Kathryn Marshall R. J. Stempak 

Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Lindsey Meyers John Darr 
Photo Viewpoint 

Mindful Meditation Unveiling of “The Football Scrimmage: Women’s Soccer vs. Women’s Lacrosse 
Chris Collins Scott Olehnik 

Coleman-Morse Shirt” 2016 Blue-Gold Game Northwestern vs. USC Center Hammes Bookstore Notre Dame Stadium Women’s Soccer Arlotta Stadium 
5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. 4:30 p.m. - 6:30 p.m. 12:30 p.m. Practice Field 4 p.m. 
Corrections 

Open to students, Brady Quinn will assist Student admission is 1 p.m. The Irish take on the 
The Observer regards itself as faculty and staff. in the unveiling. free with ID. Exhibition match. visiting Trojans. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Pride and Prejudice ND Relay for Life ND Handbell Concert Culinary Academy: Lecture: Dr. David 
of journalism at all times. We do, 
DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice Basilica of the Sacred Make Your Own Sushi Gaus 
however, recognize that we will make 
Arts Center Arena Heart Morris Inn Morris Inn 
mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 
7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. 5 p.m. - 11 p.m. 8 p.m. 3 p.m. - 4:30 p.m. 4 p.m.-6 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Adapted from the Walk for the American Celebrating the Tickets are $35 per Talk on Andean Health 
we can correct our error. 

novel by Jane Austen. Cancer Association. Jubilee Year of Mercy. person. and Development. 


STUDENT SENATE 

Group grants students emeritus status 
By JUSTINE WANG 
News Writer 
On Wednesday night, sen­ate passed resolutions be­stowing emeritus status on Bryan Ricketts, former stu­dent body president, Nidia Ruelas, former student body vice president, and Dan Sehlhorst and Sibonay Shewit, former chiefs of staff. 
The titles of emeritus status are “in recognition and ap­preciation of [their] dedica­tion and contribution to the University of Notre Dame,” according to the resolutions. 
“Bryan has fostered aware­ness to issues surrounding sexual assault by building a network of committed stu­dents through the ‘It’s On Us’ campaign and GreeNDot violence prevention program in addition to advocating for stronger support in the Title IX process ... it is clear Bryan has fostered strong, person­al relationships with all on campus, serving as a champi­on for underrepresented stu­dents,” director of internal affairs, sophomore Stephanie Mastorakos, said. 
“Nidia’s lasting impact on and service to the University will be defined not only by the many important resolu­tions that have been passed during her chairmanship, but also by the legacy of her good character, professionalism, accountability, and commit­
“Bryan has fostered 
awareness to 
issues surrounding 
sexual assault 
by building 
a network of 
committed 
students.” 
Stephanie Mastorakos 
director of internal affairs 
ment to the service of stu­dents and the mission of the University,” Mastorakos said. 
proceeding the approvals, Ricketts presented to Senate on the formerly pending joint liberal arts college venture between Zhejiang University and the University, and informed the Senators about the former Senate’s resolu­tion to the administration asking for more student in­volvement in this discussion. Ricketts’ presentation gave an overview of the original proposals for the joint col­lege. He updated Senate on the discontinuation of the original proposal, news which was released to faculty this past Monday. 
According to the origi­nal white paper proposal, authored by J. Nicholas Entrikin, vice president and associate provost for inter­nationalization, and Dr. Jonathan Noble, assistant provost for Asia, the Notre Dame-ZJU joint liberal arts college would have opened the 2017-2018 academic year. The joint college would have offered about ten majors in the fields of science, social science, the humanities, and the arts. In addition, this col­lege would be headed by an appointed dean, who would have to be a Chinese nation­al, by law. 
The white paper “raise[d] a number of issues for the Notre Dame community to consider carefully,” includ­ing: Western thought and Christianity in China, aca­demic freedom, academic in­tegrity, and curriculum. 
In the letter released to faculty confirming the end of this venture, Entrikin 
“Nidia’s lasting impact and service to the University will be defined by ... the legacy of her good character, professionalism, accountability,” 
Stephanie Mastorakos 
director of internal affairs 
wrote, “After many hopeful and positive conversations on both curricular and ad­ministrative matters related to the joint college, we were more easily able to discrimi­nate and to delineate some of the key challenges as well as advantages in bringing together two very different approaches to higher educa­tion...In the end, however, some areas remained chal­lenging for both universities, and we decided that broader cooperation would be a more effective means for achieving our common interests.” 
The relationship is going to continue with Zhejiang University, Ricketts said, but he is unsure of whether or not Zhejiang will pursue a joint liberal college with another partner university. 
Following Rickett’s pre­sentation, Senate elected three Senators to serve on Campus Life Committee representatives, in addition to the off-campus Senator, Kevin Coleman, who auto­matically serves in the role. The electees were Senior Class Council president Katelyn Wray, Welsh Family Senator sophomore Rebecca Georgiades, and Keough Hall Senator sophomore patrick McGavick. 
Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 

Notre Dame honors students for service 
Observer Staff Report  honors “a graduating senior who has made substantial  University community,” the release stated.  who has demonstrated sig­nificant effort to advancing  outstanding undergradu­ate student who exemplifies  
The  division  of  Student  personal efforts to advance  Senior  preston  Igwe  re- the  Catholic  character  of  the qualities for which Mike  
Affairs  recognized  seven  the interests of students at  ceived  the  Rev.  Theodore  the University,” the release  Russo was known, including  
students  for  “exceptional  Notre  Dame,”  the  release  Hesburgh,  C.S.C.,  Award,  stated.  service,  personal  character  
service to the Notre Dame  stated.  which honors “a graduating  Senior Alison O’Connor was  and striving to bring the best  
community”  at  the  30th  Senior Colleen McLinden  senior  whose contributions  awarded the Ray Siegfried  out of themselves and oth- 
Student  Leadership  Awards  received the John W. Gardner  have significantly advanced  Award  for  Leadership  ers,” the release stated.  
Banquet  on  April  7,  the  Student  Leadership  Award,  the climate of welcome and  Excellence, which honors “a  Senior Maggie Bowers re- 
University announced in an  which  honors  “a  graduat­ inclusion within or beyond  graduating senior who exem­ ceived  the  Denny  Moore  
April 12 press release.  ing senior who exemplifies  the University community,”  plifies the qualities for which  Award  for  Excellence  in  
Senior  Maggie  Skoch  re- the ideals of the University  the release stated.  former Notre Dame Trustee  Journalism, which honors “a  
ceived the Rev. A. Leonard  through  outstanding  com- Senior William Harris  re- Ray Siegfried was known, in- graduating senior who exem- 
Collins, C.S.C., Award, which  munity service beyond the  ceived  the  Blessed  Basil  cluding leadership, generos­ plify the qualities of Moore,  
Moreau,  C.S.C.,  Leadership  ity, devotion to the Catholic  a former Notre Dame associ­ 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT  Award, which honors “a grad- faith and affinity for athlet­ ate vice president, who was  
uating senior who embodies  ics,” the release stated.  known for his integrity, char- 
Blessed Father Moreau’s vi- Senior Meredith Fraser re­ acter, commitment to Notre  
sion of educating heart and  ceived the Mike Russo Spirit  Dame and writing ability,”  
mind as well as someone  Award,  which  honors  “an  the release stated.  






Event raises cash to find cure for cancer 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
Senior News Writer 
Across Notre Dame’s cam­pus, students are contributing more than money this week to find a cure for cancer. 
According to co-chair Lindsey paris, the Bald and the Beautiful raises funds and awareness for pediatric cancer research. 
“Now in our eighth year as an event, The Bald and The Beautiful has raised nearly $265,000 for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation and Memorial Children’s Hospital of South Bend,” she said in an email. “We offer head shaving, hair donations, and colored hair ex­tensions. Our hair extensions come in the colors of different cancer ribbons, so students and community members can honor family and friends who have fought a specific kind of cancer. The extensions are 1 for $10, 2 for $20, or 3 for $25. 
“All funds raised to shave heads supports the St. Baldrick’s Foundation, all hair extension purchases support Memorial Children’s Hospital of South Bend, and all hair is donated to pantene Beautiful Lengths. This year, we are hop­ing to bring our total of funds donated to $300,000.” 
paris said the organization is hosting several fundraising events this year. 
“Last Wednesday, we had our graduate student event at Legends. Students from the Law School and chemistry program, among others, participated by shaving their heads and do­nating their hair. We raised $900.86 at that event,” she said. “April 12, we hosted a baseball event at the Notre Dame versus Chicago State game. We haven’t totaled donations from that event yet, but we are looking forward to working with them in the feature. 
“Our main event takes place April 13 through 15 from 4 p.m. 
- 9 p.m. — [until] 8 p.m. on Friday — in LaFortune Student Center in the Dooley and Sorin Rooms. Students can register online at bald.nd.edu to shave their heads or donate their hair, and walk-ins are welcome for hair extensions.” 
paris said nearly six percent of the Notre Dame student body participated in the fund­raiser last year. 
“Our advisor, Dr. David veselik, shaves his head every year in a large science lecture class. This year, he shaved his head in Jennifer Robichaud’s parasitology class,” she said. “Each year, families from the pediatric Hematology/ Oncology program at Memorial Children’s Hospital visit our event. This year, Dr. Michael Ferguson, a pediatric hematol­ogist-oncologist at Memorial, shaved his head to raise funds for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation.” 
paris said the event is sponsored by University Edge, the Notre Dame College of Science, McGraw-Hill Education, the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-State, Einstein Bros. Bagels, Duncan Hall and Badin Hall. 
“The stylists volunteering their time are from Great Clips, University Hair Stylists, Tru 
“This is an important cause to support because everyone who has gone through or is currently facing such a difficult disease like cancer deserves to be recognized and shown support from as many people as possible.” 
Dani L’Heureux 
sophomore 
Salon-Spa, Cilantro Hair Spa and Bangs,” she said. 
Sophomore Dani L’Heureux plans to part with several inch­es of hair Thursday. 
“This is an important cause to support because everyone who has through or is cur­rently facing such a difficult disease like cancer deserves to be recognized and shown sup­port from as many people as possible,” she said. 
“This event means the world to me because in a few weeks will be the one-year anniversa­ry of my mom being told she’s cancer-free. She’s the strongest influence in my life and her strength during her battle in­spires me every day. I’m cutting my hair and raising money in honor of her and cancer fight­ers and survivors everywhere, as well as those who have lost their battles.” 
Senior Morgan Faley, who cut off eight inches of her hair Wednesday, said The Bald and the Beautiful is “a wonder­ful event that benefits great causes.” 
“They welcome monetary do­nations, but also allow people to cut their hair without having to donate. Since many of us are college students on a budget, this is a great way for students to support the cause and make an impact,” she said. “It’s al­ways fun to see everyone’s re­actions to seeing their ponytail after its cut off.” 
Sophomore paul Stevenson said this was his first time par­ticipating in the fundraiser. 
“I’ve never had a buzzcut and the thought of getting one last year was terrifying, but this year it was something I was considering doing all semes­ter,” he said. “I cut off as much as I had. Not sure the exact length. It wasn’t enough to do­nate — minimum eight inches 
— but it was 10 solid months of work without haircuts.” 
Stevenson said he has a per­sonal interest in the fundraiser. 
“Being from Memphis, Tennessee, home of St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, I’ve seen firsthand the im­pact that positive cancer re­search can have,” he said. “Additionally, my cousin was diagnosed with leukemia sev­eral years ago, but with the help of St. Jude, he survived and is perfectly healthy now. If doing something as simple as cutting your hair can make a difference like that, the choice is easy for me. It’s the least I could do.” 
Sophomore Sara Dugan said she is attempting to cut off nine inches of her hair for the fundraiser. 
“The Bald and the Beautiful is fantastic because it unites the student body behind a cause that means something to ev­eryone here. The event means a lot to me because of the people in my life who have been affect­ed by cancer and other diseases related to hair loss. It takes in­credible strength to survive through a life-threatening ill­ness,” she said. “It’s the least I can do to chop off some of my hair to support them. It will grow back.” 
Associate News Editor Rachel O’Grady contributed to this story. 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 
Dance 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 1 
too.” 
Reyes said her involvement with the club has enhanced her college experience and shaped her as a person. 
“It’s made me a lot happier and more outgoing,” Reyes said. “It’s made me be more open. I’ve been able to expand my friend group.” 
Ballroom Dance Club has made her a more confident and skilled performer, Reyes said. 
“In the beginning, I was very scared to compete,” Reyes said. “I didn’t really know what I was doing. Now that I’m more experi­enced, I have more of a competi­tive edge.” 
Reyes said her passion for dancing motivates her to give her best effort during rehearsals, which take place three times a week. 
“Working on technique can be very drilling, but it’s also fun to get better,” Reyes said. “I love learning new moves and styles.” 
Reyes looks forward to home competitions, especially this weekend’s, because they make it possible for her loved ones to see her perform. 
“I like my family and friends to see what I’ve done,” Reyes said. “I think that’s really special. It’s such a bonding experience.” 
Jonathan Unger, Notre Dame sophomore and club member, said in an email dancers must act with precision and adaptabil­ity to compete successfully. 
“A common misconception is that you’re performing a re­hearsed routine by yourselves under a spotlight,” Unger said. “Actually, you’re on the floor with as many as 40 other couples trying to get the judges, who are walking around the floor, to look at you while trying not to run into anyone else.” 
According to Unger, competi­tors have to multitask, as they try to recall steps, execute move­ments and keep smiles on their faces all at once. 
“You’re challenging yourself to actually remember the dances you learn,” Unger said. “At com­petitions, the social and per­formance aspects of ballroom dance come together.” 
Unger said he has refined his dancing ability and improved his coordination since he first joined the club. 
“I had no previous dance ex­perience and, though musically inclined, was using a part of my brain that I had never used be­fore,” Unger said. “Although it was frustrating, and still can be after almost two years, I was dancing with my friends and I knew they were having fun no matter how many times I stepped on their feet.” 
Unger said he enjoys opportu­nities to apply skills he learned from the club in his everyday life. 
“I really enjoy dancing now, and whenever I hear music, I think about dancing,” Unger said. “You can impress your friends at formals and SYRs, and go to Salsa Nights at Legends and actually know what you’re doing.” 
Darya Bondarenko, Saint Mary’s sophomore and incom­ing club president, said she en­joys ballroom dance because it allows her to exercise while learning something new. 
“Dance incorporates every­thing from art and studies,” Bondarenko said. “You have to think about how and where you’re moving. It’s also a good distractor from classes and stress, but at the same time we incorporate physics into how we move. We study how our body is supposed to move, why it works that way and why it’s natural.” 
Bondarenko said she encour­ages dancers to focus on doing their best and supporting one another, rather than on earning a certain place. 
“Competition is more about learning how others dance, see­ing those who are better than you and seeing how far you’ve pro­gressed over time,” Bondarenko said. “It builds a healthy compe­tition. It’s a way to motivate your­self to do better.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 


Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 

pAID ADvERTISEMENT 




Priest emphasizes pope’s messages of mercy 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
News Writer 
With pope Francis’ declara­tion of 2016 as the Jubilee Year of Mercy, one of pope Francis’ Missionaries of Mercy spoke at Coleman-Morse Center on Wednesday night. This Missionary of Mercy, Fr. Joe made great strides in the un­derstanding of mercy. 
“pope Francis goes as far as to say mercy is God’s name,” Corpora said, “He’s moved the understanding of [mercy] from something that God does … to something that He is. He is mercy.” 
With this declaration of the person you see on Tv.” 
“There is nothing I wouldn’t tell him about my life. He just 
exudes  grace  and  mercy,”  
Corpora said.  
After  leaving  the  vatican,  

Corpora said he set about spreading this message of mercy. 
“I received a lifetime of mer-

Corpora, a Holy Cross priest, Jubilee Year of Mercy, Francis cy, so what else could I do but 
director of university-school set about spreading this mes-give it away?” Corpora said. 
partnerships in ACE, and priest sage of mercy by calling out for One of the most important 
in residence at Dillon Hall, missionaries of mercy. Corpora aspects of this mercy, Corpora 
spoke on the power of mercy was nominated and chosen to said, was the act of confession. 
and his personal experiences as be one of these missionaries, an Corpora talked on his own ap­
a Missionary of Mercy. act which he said was incred-proach to confession through 
“I believe that God gave pope Francis an extraordinary grace to look at the signs of the times and to read them, and looking at the signs of the times the Holy Father sensed this dire need for mercy, that it might have been the one thing the world needed more than any­thing else,” Corpora said. 
Corpora said Francis has ibly emotional for him. 
“Well, I just wept,” Corpora said, “I was overcome with joy and gratitude.” 
This position as a Missionary of Mercy allowed Corpora the opportunity to travel to the vatican where he met with other missionaries and pope Francis himself. Corpora said the pope was “entirely the 

ROTC 
espouse, for what we consid­er important, for a sense of 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 1 
service, a sense of sacrifice,” 
Rocca said. 
University president Fr. John Jenkins gave a speech at the ceremony praising the ROTC men and women for their ded­ication, both to Notre Dame and their country. 
“I want to congratulate warmly all the award win­ners,” Jenkins said. “But I want to congratulate each and every member of Notre Dame ROTC. In addition to the demanding course of studies that each of you undertake, you also have too the responsibilities of Notre Dame ROTC.” 
Jenkins said this year was momentous for Notre Dame ROTC because it was the Navy’s 75th anniversary on campus. He said the Navy’s presence began in 1941, when Notre Dame was a training center for the Navy during World War II.  Jenkins also said it was the 65th anniversary of Army ROTC and mentioned also that Air Force began in 1947. 
“These are proud mile­stones, but as was said ear­lier, the officer training goes back even further to the days of Father Sorin,” Jenkins said. 
Jenkins talked about the variety of military train­ing on campus. He said with the outbreak of World War I many members of the Notre Dame community displayed their loyalty by serving in the militar y. 
“The names of those who died in that conflict … are immortalized in the East Door of the Basilica. And over that east door is the motto ‘God, Country, Notre Dame.’ 
“But as we all know, it has almost become a motto for Notre Dame for what we Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said the spirit of Notre Dame ROTC embod­ies the Notre Dame spirit in general. 
“I just ask you to always remember the values you learn at Notre Dame. As you go forth into military ser­vice and even beyond that; a sense of leadership, a sense of community, a sense of looking out for one another and a sense of self-sacrifice for something greater in your lives.” 
Jenkins said General Martin Dempsey, 18th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will be speaking at Commencement and noted that he is an exemplary fig­ure of leadership and service. 
He said he commends members of the ROTC for being trained as sailors and soldiers of not only great skill, but also enlightened consciences. 
“You have contemplat­ed the morality of warfare and embraced the virtues of peace,” Jenkins said. “Highest among these vir­tues stand courage, justice, faith, hope and love. These values will serve you in your future.” 
Jenkins finished his speech by thanking the military men and women for representing Notre Dame in the best way possible. 
“Wherever you go, we ask you to bring Notre Dame with you, bring that spirit with you,” he said. “We hope that this spirit, which has in­fused so many generations of Notre Dame graduates, will be part of your lives as well.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 
mercy. 
“I try in each instance to help the person see that the mercy of God is bigger than any possible sin than any person could pos­sibly commit. That our sins are like little blips on the screen of God’s mercy, that God’s mercy trumps and overcomes any sin that anyone could have com­mitted,” Corpora said. 
Corpora also spoke on how anyone could go about ful­filling this message of mercy. Corpora said that all must go about, “practicing the corporal and spiritual works of mercy.” 
“Whatever work of mercy we practice must bring us into contact with people, whether 

it’s a corporal work of mercy, giving food to the hungry, drink to the thirsty, visiting the pris­oners. It brings us into contact with people,” he said. 
One must undertake this mission of mercy in a way that focuses on human to human interaction, Corpora said. 
“Imagine how much our lives 


pAID ADvERTISEMENT 
would be different if we en­gaged with each other from that perspective, which is basically human to human. Instead of, as we often do, we engage with others as Mexican to Anglo, African American to Asian, gay to straight, documented to un­documented, rich to poor, but rather as human to human … which is basically I have some­
thing good to give, and some­
thing good to receive from 
another person,” Corpora said. 
Corpora said he has faith this 
message of mercy will endure. 
“We’ve had a lot of these the­
matic years in the last ten years 
— the year of family, the year of faith, the year of consecrated life, but they began with a big flourish and you didn’t hear about them until they were over, but the Year of Mercy just keeps growing,” Corpora said. 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 



head, how they’re feeling and go-GRC Panel ing from there to make decisions.” 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 1 
After discussing the situation 

thoroughly, audience members members were able to freely ask were asked how their reactions questions, offer insight and dis-would differ if certain aspects agree with panel members. were different. When presented 
The first scenario presented with the question of how the situ-described a college-aged boy, ation would differ if the genders of “Robert,” who has recently started Robert and his ex-girlfriend were dating a new girlfriend and finds reversed, panel members stressed himself being contacted con-the behavior described is equally tinually and aggressively by an concerning regardless of gender ex-girlfriend over text, Facebook and regardless of if the couple and email. The ex-girlfriend’s had been homosexual instead of reactions range from angry to heterosexual. nostalgic to desperate. Audience panelists and audience mem­members were presented with bers then shared opinions on three options for how to handle when the situation could begin the situation: confront the ex-girl-to be considered stalking, not-friend forcefully, give her a chance ing that there isn’t always a clear to explain herself or ignore her. set of guidelines to defining such 
Led by the panelists, audience behavior. members picked apart the sce-The second scenario presented you walk away from the situa-I ask a couple questions about panel members discussed how to nario, considering, for instance, described a hypothetical friend, tion, is to express both love and this?’ If they say no, that’s OK. It’s notice signs for concern amidst if they knew definitely that Robert “Laura,” approaching audience also let her know that this is abso-OK to be present to what the per-typically normal behavior within did not want to get back together members and confiding that she lutely not her fault by any means,” son is experiencing without being a relationship. with his ex-girlfriend, and if con-was recently sexually assaulted Brockman said. fully able to fix or address what The fourth and final scenario fronting her would take the form but is now seeking counseling. “I think when we’re working they’re going through.” described an argument between of a fight or a conversation. Rather Audience members answered a with someone who has experi-various methods of appropri-two platonic best friends and than choose a ‘right’ answer, the poll which offered three differ-enced this, we are hoping to give ately approaching a friend with roommates, “Carlos” and “Mark,” short-term and long-term ben-ent ways of handling the situa-back their agency,” Lafferty said, concern were discussed as well. escalating into physical violence. efits and disadvantages of each tion: to keep an eye on Laura but “And so I think it’s really impor-“You might start with, ‘I’m wor-After Carlos receives a black eye method of reaction were weighed not mention the issue with her; to tant to consider how the decisions ried about your mental health,’ ” from Mark, Carlos has reserva­by both the audience and panel continually press her to talk more that you’re making could impact Skoch said, “I say that with a slight tions about continuing to live members. about the assault; and to tell an RA that agency.” chuckle, but very sincerely, it’s OK with him, but brushes the punch 
“I would say the most im-that Laura may need help without RAs were noted as a useful to say the words that you’re try-off as a “kind of thing” that “hap­portant thing is to understand describing her specific situation. resource to go to when one is ing to get across. You don’t have pens between the guys all the the breadth of the situation,” panel members discussed the confronted with a friend facing to necessarily beat around the time.” Brockman said, “So that’s asking importance of respecting some-sexual assault. The importance of bush, you don’t have to be blunt panel members pointed out more questions. You may feel like one’s privacy and comfort levels, assessing a friend’s wishes in such in an insensitive way, but it’s OK that physical violence should you’re prying, you may feel like while walking the line between a situation was also emphasized. to ask that question itself, because never be justified as simply typi­you’re being blunt with so many intrusion and providing neces-“I think affirming their decision I think it names what’s going on, cal, ‘boys will be boys’ behavior questions, but that’s what you sary help. to seek help at a counseling center perhaps in a way that ‘Laura’ among males, and that physical have to do in order to get answers. “I understand that it’s [impor-was really important,” Skoch said, hasn’t thought about it yet.” escalation in an argument is nev-So most important is to under-tant] to respect their privacy, but “Asking permission to ask ques-The third scenario presented er acceptable. stand what’s going through their maybe more important, before tions is OK, too. ‘Do you mind if described a roommate, “Ashley,” While audience members 
whose new boyfriend has caused were informed on the differ-her to become cut off from ence between domestic violence friends. Additionally, Ashley’s and Carlos and Mark’s situation self-esteem has visibly suffered — which would not qualify as due to her boyfriend’s constantly domestic violence due to their belittling comments. Audience platonic relationship — they members were once again pre-also discussed how the situation sented with three options: con-would be different if the two were fronting Ashley with a group of boyfriends instead of best friends, friends; trusting Ashley’s insis-noting the intensification of emo­tence that her relationship is a tional impact that situation would healthy one; and suggesting that bring. Ashley makes an appointment Throughout the panel, Gender with the counseling center to get Relations Center (GRC) members a second opinion. stood at the back of the room to 
Confronting Ashley as a group offer support for audience mem­was generally disavowed by audi-bers who might become emotion­ence members, who came to the ally upset at the scenarios being consensus that such a method discussed. Above all, bystander would come off as too adversarial interaction was stressed in all and ‘ganging up’ on her. Audience situations. members were advised to ‘be “Often an early intervention careful, not confrontational,’ and is not going to get a whole lot to approach friends in similar of play,” Lafferty said while de­situations from a place of concern scribing “Ashley’s” hypothetical and care. boyfriend. “She’s not letting 
“They may very well say, ‘Yeah, (herself) hear this. I think as I’ve noticed these things too, a friend, if you’re sensing that, but it’s just who they are, that’s you back off and say, ‘OK, just how our relationship works,’ “ checking, concerned, but love Brockman said, “At that point, you,’ and then you stay in her there’s cause for concern simply life. You make sure that you’re in the fact that a lot of times our there if and when she starts to gut opinions aren’t wrong. It may get scared or worried that this is be that you need to go talk to an-a problem. Because sometimes other friend about this, or that you we get frustrated with friends can have not a confrontation, but like this, when we see them do-a conversation.” ing something self-destructive, 
The “Ashley” situation was and then we just back down. particularly interesting because “Then, when they need some-it bordered on the line between one, there’s no one around.” simple devotion to a significant other and a significant other act-Contact Andrea Vale at  ing controlling. Audience and avale@nd.edu 


pAID ADvERTISEMENT 




China 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 1 
and organizations — both undergraduate and graduate 
— sit on the committee. 
“We wanted to represent all of the student issues or all of the student groups we thought would be interested in this topic,” he said. “So we found people from the busi­ness school, we found people who were interested in com­ing at it from more of a human rights perspective. We were looking for people who were really going to be looking at this from a labor perspective. We also recognized that, de­spite identifying all of these student clubs around cam­pus, we might still be missing some people, so we created a couple of seats we’re calling ‘open academic positions.’” 
Three representatives from the SWpC also sit on the WpC, which is otherwise comprised of faculty and staff. 
“Ideally what we’re going to do at the end of the day is, as students, pool our resources, pool our experiences from all of these different per­spectives into an informed perspective that our three reps will bring to inform the Worker participation Committee in their meet­ings as equal partners at the table,” Caponigro said. “The other sort of mission is to bring so much more diversity and experience and back­ground and thought to the process. It’s one thing to have fifteen well-experienced ad­ministrators and faculty at the table, but you double in size when you bring in these students.” 
While the town hall dis­cussion was focused on ad­dressing factories in China and other countries the University works with, Caponigro said he and the other representatives from the WpC and SWpC in atten­dance would not be naming any of these countries. 
“One of the things we’re going to be careful about tonight is that to honor our working relationship with the licensees, we will not list any of the licensees by name,” he said. “We will not mention any brand names; we will not mention the names of any of the factories that we’re talk­ing about tonight. That’s 
“Ideally what we’re going to do at the end of the day is, as students, pool our resources, pool our experiences from all of these different perspectives into an informed perspective that our three reps will bring to inform the Worker Participation Committee in their meetings as equal partners at the table.” 
Matt Caponigro 
SWPC secretary 
something we’ve agreed to do, sort of in good faith with our licensee partners.” 
“The question is whether or not to allow manufacturing in China,” Caponigro said. “That’s a simple way of say­ing it; really, it’s many ques­tions: how important are our international labor laws and statutes to inform the way that countries approach the rights and freedoms of their workers? How important is Catholic Social Teaching to informing the way we think about workers? How impor­tant is human development and the ability to do good by some people who haven’t had a lot of good done by them, even if it’s at the cost of some of the more principled ways of approaching the effort?” 
Hannah O’Brien, one of the SWpC’s representatives for the WpC, was part of a group that went to Guatemala and El Salvador to assess facto­ries the University was al­ready utilizing. 
“This pilot program focuses on China, but we did assess­ments in other countries as well: Guatemala, El Salvador, India and Bangladesh, where we’d already been manufac­turing,” she said. “We were making these standards for China but we wanted to make sure these other places were also meeting these standards we’re trying to enforce. In some cases, they weren’t. In fact, in some of these fac­tories, the conditions were worse than they were in the factories in China.” 
According to O’Brien, the factories were being assessed on freedom of association and worker participation. 
“Freedom of association and worker participation are not the same thing,” she said. “Freedom of association, in the broad sense, is ‘is it le­gal in this country for unions to be formed in any sector.’ Worker participation is not very different, but different in that unionization doesn’t have to be legal, but the goal is to see to what extent can we get the workers involved with the management and have a say in how things are run without necessarily forming a union.” 
The difference between the two, O’Brien said, was clear in some of the factories they assessed in Guatemala and El Salvador. 
“Unionization is legal in these countries, but it’s frowned upon,” she said. “Whereas worker partici­pation, on the other hand, was in a lot of factories that we saw; they already had a strong system or they were making strides toward that.” 
Dan Graff, director of the Higgins Labor program said that while China technical­ly has one union, it doesn’t function the way American unions do. 
“The Chinese unions are attached to the communist party,” he said. “They’re attached to the state and 
“There seems to be a push for better relations with China, and this is a part of that. We already buy so many products from China, but we refuse to manufacture there.” 
Hannah O’Brien 
SWPC representative 
there’s no ability to make any independent, legal entities outside of that framework.” 
Caponigro said that while the Chinese unions exist, they don’t have high worker participation. 
“Unions in the United States are voted to be in ex­istence by the voters in a particular factory or from a particular employer, where­as unions in China, which are institutionalized with the business,” he said. “It’s mandatory for there to be a chapter but the question is whether or not workers are participating in the union.” 
Several of the participants asked the WpC and SWpC members in attendance why China, in particular, was gar­nering so much attention and effort from the University. 
“There seems to be a push for better relations with China, and this is a part of that,” O’Brien said. “We al­ready buy so many products from China, but we refuse to manufacture there. Why don’t we reevaluate that policy and see if we can get workers involved and manu­facture and improve the lives of workers and do that in a way that’s actually impact­ful rather than just saying ‘oh, well on moral grounds, we’re not going to do this at all.’ But, effectively, we’re still not doing anything be­cause we buy all those other products from them. It’s kind of a double standard in my opinion.” 
Mike Lowe, director of li­censing, said the University was, above all, trying to make a difference and the “Freedom of Association” policy, in regards to China, was not accomplishing that. 
“Ideally, when Notre Dame initiated the policy in 2001, I think the inherent hope was that other universities would see this as a policy that they would adopt and, over the years, not a single other uni­versity has adopted the pol­icy,” he said. “We have this policy that’s very strong and very moral but it didn’t make a difference. So the ques­tion is, if we engage with our licensees in production in factories they’re currently working in, are we better able, by being engaged in China to develop different levels of workers’ rights than if we just walk away from them.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 


pAID ADvERTISEMENT 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Working past our perfectionism 
Jimmy Kemper 
Online Editor 

Let’s talk about perfectionism. 
perfectionism is an attitude that many of us at this university are familiar with. Sometimes, it can be good for our work. It can help moti­vate us to put every ounce of effort into a paper to make it the best paper possible. Other times, it can be bad. It has the potential to paralyze us, stopping us from even getting that paper started because we’ve set such high expecta­tions for ourselves. And then when that paper doesn’t go well, we take that attitude and put even more pressure and higher expectations on ourselves for the next one, because we have to recover and prove that we’re great students, creating a downward spiral of fear and anxiety that consumes our lives. 
When we take up the mantle of perfection­ism, we’re not being fair to ourselves. It’s not respectful to the person we are, because we’re so much more than our grades. None of us are perfect, and by placing such expectations on ourselves, we’re isolating ourselves from our peers who experience the same struggles as us in our classwork. We, as students, need to let go of this perfectionism that can have such a toxic and devastating effect on our academic lives. 
So how do we break this habit of perfectionism? 
Sometimes, it’s just as simple as breaking the rules we’ve set for ourselves. By letting go of the habits of perfectionism, we can come to realize both the pettiness of this mentality and our ability to make meaningful changes to toxic lifestyles. 
Other times, it’s about recognizing the op­portunities and gifts that we’ve been given and being thankful for them, rather than being consumed by anxiety about them. Gratitude is pivotal in shifting away from an attitude of perfectionism toward one of acceptance. 
The best thing we can do, though, is reach out. As perfectionists, sometimes we feel that we shouldn’t be asking for help and that we can handle it on our own. But whether it’s a friend, a parent or a counselor at St. Liam’s, letting someone know about our struggles gives us the opportunity to rely upon a network of people who care about us and truly wish to help us make things better. 
Talking to others is also important for devel­oping shame resilience. Letting the moments of shame that our perfectionism creates domi­nate our lives isn’t fair, and by exposing our fears, weaknesses and anxieties to our loved ones we take the first step in letting go of that shame. 
perfectionism can have an incredibly nega­tive impact on our lives. But it doesn’t have to. By breaking our habits, reframing our attitude and seeking out help, we can become more present in our lives and take full advantage of and find greater joy in the opportunities we have at this University. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The evolution of the bathroom predator 
Elizabeth Hascher 
Dignified Response 
In 1972, the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was passed by Congress. After being introduced in every session since 1923, it finally saw prog­ress, due in large part to the second wave of the women’s movement. As the campaign to ratify the ERA in the states waged on, however, opposing groups began to coalesce in a countermovement characterized by the religious right. 
Led by phyllis Schlafly, conservative groups raised their concerns about the legislation, in­cluding fears of women being sent into combat, privacy rights being overturned and women los­ing their right to be supported by their husbands. perhaps the most powerful weapon to emerge from this countermovement that remains a fea­ture of contemporary social and political dis­course is the narrative of the bathroom predator. 
Schlafly and the Stop ERA campaign saw poten­tial to mobilize women by uniting them in fear of losing privacy and security in places they felt safe — not just in the home, but also in sex-segre­gated bathrooms. pamphlets were produced that rebranded the ERA as the “Common Toilet” law, proposing that passage of the ERA would mean all restrooms would immediately become unisex. 
Equal rights suddenly became an issue not of rights and freedom but of safety. Leaders of the ERA countermovement suggested that it would allow sexual predators to lurk in bathrooms until an opportune moment presented itself in which they could leap out and assault an unsuspecting woman. Thus, the bathroom predator was born. This narrative continues to be used as a tool to ei­ther slow progress for other marginalized groups or prop up discriminatory measures in various states and localities today. 
In November 2015, voters in Houston voted overwhelmingly in favor of repealing the city’s Houston Equal Rights Ordinance, or HERO. The ordinance was aimed at prohibiting discrimina­tion against 15 different classes of people, but opponents chose to focus attention on its applica­tion to transgender residents’ use of public rest­rooms. It was rebranded as the “bathroom bill”, and ads and signs that advocated for prohibiting dangerous men from entering women’s restrooms were widespread. The narrative of the lurking bathroom predator served once again as a mech­anism for mobilizing voters to get to the polls and repeal an anti-discrimination measure. 
Until recently, the pervasive threat of restroom sexual assailants was used to justify opposition to more general equal rights legislation. However, on March 23, state legislators in North Carolina passed the public Facilities privacy and Security Act, which allows for discrimination based on gender identity and sexual orientation and also restricts municipal governments from passing measures that would offer protection to these groups. Additionally, all public institutions are now required to post signs stating that bath­rooms are to be segregated only based on biologi­cal sex. 
At least three people have filed federal law­suits against the act thus far. Companies such as paypal have cancelled plans to expand in North Carolina, and Bruce Springsteen even cancelled a scheduled performance, saying, “Some things are more important than a rock show.” Whether the act will be implemented in its current form remains questionable, but for now, the mysteri­ous bathroom predator has struck again, en­abling lawmakers to limit freedoms and prop up discrimination against marginalized groups in society. 
We must stop allowing the narrative of the bathroom assailant to scare us away from en­suring the rights, freedoms and the protection of dignity of those in our society who are most frequently discriminated against. There are le­gitimate conversations to be had on the details of controversial legislation such as the law in North Carolina and similar measures recently passed by South Dakota and Mississippi. 
However, if we focus on the idea that a simple sign posted outside a bathroom door is the only thing stopping a person intent on carrying out a sexual assault from doing so, we have lost sight of reality. This false reassurance that lawmak­ers feel they are providing is not a valid reason by itself to roll back rights and limit freedoms. Existing laws against assault and their enforce­ment in every public space should serve as reas­surances of our safety, not a plastic sign with a stick figure wearing a skirt. 
Elizabeth Hascher is a sophomore from Grand Rapids, Michigan. She lives in Lewis Hall and studies politi­cal science with a minor in international development studies. She can be reached at ehascher@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
The end of an era 
Christopher Damian 
Ideas of a University 

With a smile on her face, I recently saw a bright young woman go straight to professor David Solomon and hug him. I’ve seen this happen with many of professor Solomon’s former students. They return to campus and light up when they see him, almost as if they are seeing their father after a long absence. 
When I entered Notre Dame in the fall of 2009, not much time passed before I sat in his office with a couple of other freshmen and had a con­versation about how we wanted to write tracts about what it means to be a Catholic univer­sity. I think starry-eyed students like us helped professor Solomon to be ever-creative in his ef­forts to promote Notre Dame’s Catholic identity, from founding the Center for Ethics and Culture to beginning the Fund to protect Human Life. I wonder if students have been doing this since he joined Notre Dame’s philosophy faculty in 1968. 
There’s an instant affinity when I discover a Notre Dame graduate who took professor Solomon’s Morality and Modernity class. The narrative survey course, which focuses on Alasdair MacIntyre’s “After virtue,” has created a common connection — a common core, if you will — among generations of Notre Dame grads interested in responding to the modern world from within the Catholic intellectual tradition. It pursues an answer to the interminable moral arguments that abound on and off campus and what can be done about them. The class is pre­cisely the kind of course worthy of a fixed place in a core curriculum. It’s a class I turn back to, either explicitly or implicitly, in nearly every intellectual and practical endeavor. It pro­vides a framework for thinking about countless problems. 
In addition to teaching, professor Solomon occasionally found himself involved in campus controversies. He played an important role in Notre Dame’s 2009 “alternative commencement.” He has pushed for a University with a stronger commitment to the protection of human life in its most vulnerable stages. Though not Catholic himself, for decades he has worked for a Notre Dame that robustly lives out its evangelical and apostolic mission. 
I know a lot of men like professor Solomon: Christians who have spent their careers in what seems like a losing battle for the soul of great Christian institutions. But professor Solomon, as I have known him, is unique among these fight­ers in important ways: though he has perhaps lost allies and made some enemies in his work, and though he may have been sad and tired at times, I have never known him as a man who works with bitterness. 
A few years ago, when faced with the possibil­ity of losing one of his great projects, he spoke in McKenna Hall to a crowd of philosophers, theo­logians, professors, students and friends about how flowers are made to bloom for a time. It was a beautiful moment. With admirable detachment towards earthly endeavors, he reminded many of us that the end of an era doesn’t mean the de­mise of the good that has been done. And as he stood before a crowd of people who had worked beside him, he reminded me that in the end, our greatest comforts and our greatest accomplish­ments are the friendships we have forged in our embattled years. Though many things can be taken from us by the powers that be, not even death can destroy the mutual affection and good will shared between friends. 
perhaps this is why I think of Dr. Solomon as a man who smiles and laughs amid his teach­ing. He’s a man who bought my friends and me drinks after class so we could continue conversa­tions about the ethics of Aristotle and Aquinas. He’s a man who welcomed countless students into his office and offered a listening ear, fa­therly counsel and, occasionally, money from the Center for Ethics and Culture for intellectual projects. He welcomed students into his home for class dinners and chided us if we hadn’t read Jane Austen. 
professor Solomon’s retirement at the end of the semester will certainly leave an empty space in the Notre Dame that many of us have known and loved. But the space left is not a scorched Earth. It’s a fertile ground, with deep roots and flowers spread across the country, in various graduate programs, in the hundreds of students who travel to Washington every January, in pro­fessionals committed to integrated ethical prac­tice, and in viewpoint columns that arise from late afternoon conversations at Legends. 
Thanks for everything, professor. I’ll be read­ing “pride and prejudice” this summer. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence 
J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Clarifying our objections 
Along with 88 other students, I signed a letter published in the Observer on March 18 entitled “Objections to the Laetare Medal decision.” In that letter, we expressed our disappointment with this year’s Laetare Medal honorees, espe­cially vice president Biden. I write to continue the discussion sparked by our letter, with two main points of emphasis. 
First, in light of criticisms directed at our letter since its publication, it is important to note that we were not motivated by partisan bias or politi­cal ideology. Our criticism of the University’s decision corresponded with that of Bishop Rhoades, who had released a statement on this topic prior to our letter. 
Some critics have asserted that, if one is dis­pleased with this year’s Laetare Medal honorees, one must oppose, in equal measure, the honor­ing of both Biden and Boehner. Such criticisms stem from misrepresentations or misunder­standings of the Church’s moral teaching and of the meaning of Catholic Social Teaching. 
To equate Boehner’s positions on immigration and the environment, for example, with Biden’s positions on abortion and same-sex marriage is simply incorrect — doing so neglects the dis­tinction between positive moral obligations and negative moral absolutes. The sanctity of inno­cent human life and the nature of marriage as an indissoluble bond between one man and one woman are fundamental teachings of the Church — abortion and marriage are non-negotiable issues. There are other issues, like immigration policy, environmental regulations and care for the poor, on which the Church permits pruden­tial decision-making in light of broader prin­ciples, meaning that many policies or programs can be in line with Church teaching. 
Second, despite the fact that 346 Notre Dame students have signed our letter as of April 12, Father Jenkins and the other Holy Cross Fellows of the University denied our requests for a meet­ing. On April 1, we sent our letter to the Fellows, requesting a meeting so that students could raise their concerns and hear the Fellows’ ratio­nale for the decision. We wrote to the Fellows in light of the fact that their duties include ensur­ing “that the University maintains its essential character as a Catholic institution of higher learning.” 
The University states that it has awarded the Laetare Medal to Biden and Boehner, in part, to recognize their willingness to work with op­ponents in pursuit of the common good. Despite disagreeing with the University’s decision, we wish to enter into the spirit of the award and converse productively with those responsible for the Catholic character of our University. Sadly, this seems impossible. 
In a letter addressed to all co-signers of our letter, Father Jenkins stated that the Fellows of the University were not responsible for the Laetare Medal decision; in the end it was his own decision. While the Fellows would not meet with us, Father Jenkins promised he would clarify his decision for the entire campus community and wider public. 
We responded to Father Jenkins, reissuing our request for a meeting, this time not to the Holy Cross Fellows as a unit but to each Fellow indi­vidually, including Father Jenkins in his capacity as president and as the person responsible for this decision. We were denied once again. 
I am glad Father Jenkins will take steps to clarify his decision for the broader community and will consider the arguments put forward in our letter. But I am tremendously disappointed that our meeting requests — on behalf of so many Notre Dame students — were denied. personal encounter is the best way to understand those who disagree with us and to work toward a greater understanding of the truth. I wish Father Jenkins and the Holy Cross Fellows had cho­sen to enter into the spirit of this year’s Laetare Medal and allow such a personal encounter with my fellow students and me. We are, after all, among those harmed by the scandal of Father Jenkins’ decision to honor Joe Biden with the most prestigious award for American Catholics. 
Tim Bradley 
senior April 12 



By ALEXANDRA LOWREY 
Scene Writer 

It’s a truth universally acknowledged that Jane Austen will always be relevant. Two whole centuries after its ini­tial publication in 1813, “pride and prejudice” endures as one of the greatest love stories ever written. In recent years, the classic novel can claim itself as the basis on which many love/hate rom-coms are built, the inspira­tion for a multitude of fanfictions (even of the zombie apocalypse persuasion) and the foundation on which an array of modern-day adaptations have mounted their successes. It seems that the “janeites” of our generation aren’t prepared to give up on the ideals that early 19th century romance has to offer, and neither is Notre Dame’s Department of Film, Television and Theatre. 
The department’s latest main stage production of “pride and prejudice” adapted by Jon Jory and directed by Anton Juan transports the audience to the world of Elizabeth Bennet in which a woman’s only ambitions in life were marriage and finding the perfect empire dress. 
As to be expected when witnessing a Juan produc­tion, the stylistic choices of the staging of the play are some of the more memorable aspects for audience mem­bers. Upon entering the theatre, the riverrun country dance band, dressed in traditional 19th century garb and composed of fiddle and mandolin players, performs what will be the soundtrack for Austen’s love story. This, combined with the stunningly well-designed set by Marcus Stephens, establishes the tone for a night spent in Longbourn, England, during the 1800s. The costumes, beautifully created by Richard E. Donnelly, only add to this level of immersion, appearing not only historically accurate and functional but colorfully pleasing as well. 
Juan’s highly choreographed stylishness is evident throughout the show, specifically the large ballroom scenes in the first act, each a complex orchestration of dialogue, blocking and dance. While these are very well-executed by the director and his cast, they are the only times during the show where the audience may feel a bit uninterested after having witnessed several very similar dance sequences in a row. However, for the most part Juan keeps the energy of the play up, his creative use of the multi-level stage suited to Jory’s adaptation, which utilizes quite a bit of narration and exposition in the form of letters. 
As for the play’s performances, Emily Dauer as Elizabeth Bennet stands out as an embodiment of one of the most famous, complex female characters ever writ­ten. Exhibiting a multi-layered display of Lizzie’s charms, as well as faults, Dauer will not disappoint even the strict­est of Austen loyalists and has the audience rooting for her happily ever after. 
Miss Bennet’s antagonist turned lover, Mr. Darcy, is played by Clayton Conroy, who offers an austere inter­pretation of this definitive romantic hero. Smiling in perhaps only one scene during his entire performance, Conroy is the exact Darcy that Austen created: proud, prejudiced but ultimately too generous and dreamy to resist. 
Stephanie Konrady and Keenan Kelley are “aww”-wor­thy departures from the drama of Darcy and Elizabeth as Jane and Mr. Bingley, respectively, two parts of the sweet secondary couple of the show. 
Róisín Goebelbecker plays a perfect Lydia Bennet, en­ergetic and attention-seeking but reluctantly lovable in all her silliness. Cameron Hart deserves accolades for tri­pling as Sir William Lucas, Mr. Collins and Mr. Gardiner, effectively annoying his on-stage acquaintances and transforming for the audience time and time again. 
The production all in all is extremely well-executed and offers a classically entertaining interpretation of the famous novel that audience members of all familiarities will adore. “pride and prejudice” closes the 2015-2016 theatre season with zeal, romance and a whole lot of mutton chops that you don’t want to miss. 
“pride and prejudice” runs April 13 through 17 at Debartolo performing Arts Center. Tickets are on sale online at ftt.nd.edu. 
Contact Alexandra Lowrey at alowrey1@nd.edu 

LINDSEY MEYERS | The Observer 

THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
Scene Writer 

Love streams. Loud and decaying, the alluvial phospho­rescence of neon. On the riverbank, the souls of gleaming children voice their piping organs, breaking down in tenor tones. 
This is the atmosphere of Tim Hecker’s latest solo work, “Love Streams.” For the uninformed, Hecker is one of the foremost ambient drone producers working today. The genre’s sound is characterized by dusky and dense electron­ic arrangements that pop, swell, and deteriorate throughout each track – think William Basinski on a goth stint. 
At least, this was the tone of Hecker’s previous works, “Ravedeath, 1972” and “virgins”, albums that reimaged li­turgical instrumentals by sublimating them via drone. The aesthetic was divine, and divinely dark. Hecker’s follow-up is not altogether different. His creative approach has not drastically changed, but the tone of “Love Streams” is indis­putably in contrast with its predecessor. 
“Love Streams” was, like “virgins,” recorded in a studio in Reykjavik, Iceland, with the help of fellow electronic lu­minary Ben Frost. But this time, the central subject of the work is not the haunted piano of “virgins,” but the bright­ness of the human voice. For this purpose, Hecker recruited the Icelandic Choir Ensemble, whose pseudo-angelic voices he manipulates on this Lp. The result sounds as oblique as any of his albums, but the semblance of a human presence on this work creates a dynamic that moves away from the abstraction that has characterized his previous works. 
Standout tracks “Music of the Air” and “voice Crack” best capitalize on the disorienting qualities of vocal intercalation and are as a result the strongest and most evocative on the album. The pieces are infused with an aura of chaos that is simultaneously chaotic and uplifting, yet paradoxically, chiming neon synth-pads instill them with a sublime peace. 
Warmth is such an essential player in the mood shift of Hecker’s latest work the tracks that don’t incorporate a sem­blance of human presence are — while still skillful and compelling — much less distinct from the sounds of his pre­vious records. “Live Leak Instrumental,” for example, could easily have been a sequel to “Stab variation” from “virgins,” with electronic plucks substituted for orchestral sounds. Nonetheless, Hecker’s mastery of his craft prevents any of the tracks on “Love Streams” from sounding repetitive or drab. For an artist working in a genre whose output is con­sistently marred by redundancy and even some measure of creative bankruptcy, Hecker’s accomplishment is particu­larly impressive. 
Ambient music — and ambient drone all the more — tends to polarize its audience. To some it is the electronic equivalent of classical, to others it is nothing but elevator music. But on “Love Streams,” Tim Hecker is able to recreate himself sufficiently to widen his appeal to people who may have found his previous work “too creepy.” On the contrary, the fluorescent heat that radiates from his latest work makes for a listen as calming as it is dynamic and engaging. As it is less “classical” than “virgins,” there is no risk of it being confused with Muzak. 
Of course, stylistic changes notwithstanding, Hecker could have done more to recreate himself musically. Yet while it could have been interesting to see an entirely dif­ferent side of Hecker, it would be unfair to say that such a metamorphosis were necessary. Even while exploring more or less the same territory for the length of his career, Hecker has proven his ability to consistently wow. Why say no to more? 
Contact Adrian Lore at asanchez11@nd.,edu 
“Love Streams” 
Tim Hecker 

Label: 4AD Tracks: “Music of the Air” If you like: Oneohtrix Point Never, Stars of the Lid 

WEEKEND AT A GLANCE 
FRIDAY 


What: Wes Walker When: 10 p.m. Where: Legends How Much: Free Admission with a ND/SMC/HCC ID 
Wes Walker recently exploded onto the hip-hop scene with viral single “Jordan Belfort.” Show up at Legends this Friday and he’ll be wielding your attention and the mic like two swords. Stay until midnight to live the life of luxury yourself dur­ing Legends’ “Jordan Belfort Night.” 
SATURDAY 

What: Lakeside Music Festival When: 2 p.m. - 7 p.m. Where: Carroll Lawn How Much: $3 
Music. Friends. Sunlight sparkling on the water, thick farquad grass be­tween your toes. This may sound like heaven, but in fact, it’s the Lakeside Music Festival. Take the trek to Carroll Hall this Saturday for five hours of blissful live music. You’ll be having a good time while giving to a good cause: all money will go to the Boys and Girls club. 
SUNDAY 

What: Pride and Prejudice When: 7:30 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. Where: Patricia George Decio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center How Much: $7 for students and children, $15 for regular tickets 
In case you couldn’t get enough Austen from Alexandra Lowrey’s excellent article, Scene is here to re­mind you that the last day to see this excellent production is Sunday, April 17th. Like an opportunity to marry a wealthy, emotionally ambiguous man, this is something you won’t want to miss. 
SCENECAST 

Scenecast is a weekly podcast featur­ing the best and brightest minds here in The Observer’s Scene section. 
Scenecast just won the Indiana Collegiate press Association’s Best podcast award, so we’re going to celebrate by chatting about a record number of new records this week. Scenecast is like that cool friend who recommends you music minus the judgmental look she gives you when you don’t know who Courtney Barnett is. Tune in to WvFI tomor­row at 6 to catch the show. 
LINDSEY MEYERS | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | WILL SHORTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | JOHN RODDY & ERIC CARLSON 

SUDOKU | THE MEpHAM GROUp 

FLING BY SPRING | RILEY MCCURRIE 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | EUGENIA LAST 
Happy Birthday: If something isn’t working for you, change it. It’s up to you to address issues head-on and come up with solutions that will fit your budget and stabilize your emotional well-being. Change is good, and if you go through the proper channels, it can benefit everyone around you as well. Take the initiative and strive for personal satisfaction and happiness. Your numbers are 4, 12, 20, 31, 39, 43, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look before you leap. Don’t infringe on others’ rights in order to get what you want. Find a way to do your own thing without ruffling feathers, and you’ll avoid an emotional situation. Understanding and patience will be required. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Focus on your personal and domestic goals. Include those you love in your plans. Love and compassion will be reciprocated and result in priceless rewards. Opportunities will develop as a result of hard work and flawless presentation. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be outgoing, but don’t offer to do something you don’t have time for or will tire of quickly. Your desire for change and diversity will be met with opposition if balance and compromise aren’t applied. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep your plans simple and be moderate in your expenditures. Emotions will flare up if you let someone’s unpredictability get to you. Make learning, exploring and trying new things your focus instead of worrying about what others do or say. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Jump into action and show everyone what you are capable of accomplishing. Be prepared to deal with an unexpected expense. Take a short trip if it will help you disclose information about something that interests you personally. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): plan to have fun and you will brighten someone’s day. Doing things that will bring you closer to someone you love or more in tune with someone you are working with will bring stellar results and lead to new beginnings. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Share your feelings and have no regrets. As long as you feel good about who you are and what you have done, nothing else matters. Be true to yourself and keep moving forward, even if recent results have not been encouraging. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Lay out your plans and what you have to offer. Don’t downplay your talent. Toot your own horn and let everyone know what you are capable of. Opportunity is within reach if you are willing to step into the spotlight. 



SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Honesty will be a deciding factor when dealing with friends, your lover and those in a position of authority. Concentrate on having fun and spending time with the people you love. Be yourself and stop trying to outdo others. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): proceed with caution. Keep anyone who can’t make up his or her mind at arms’ length. If you are going to achieve your objective, you will need solid answers from people who know what they want. Don’t let your emotions take over. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Avoid trouble, and if someone is argumentative, back away. Look for ways to improve your appearance and your talents. Take on a physical challenge or put your energy into pleasing someone you feel passionately about. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take advantage of an emotional situation to bring you closer to someone who inspires you to be yourself. Expand your interests. Encouragement is a two-way street, so reward those who share things with you. 


Birthday Bwaby: You are alert and communicative. You are goal-oriented and motivated. 
JUMBLE | DAvID HOYT AND JEFF KNUREK 

To receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable and mail to: 
The Observer p.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City State Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Make baseball fun again 

Michael Ivey 
Sports Writer 
Washington Nationals out­fielder Bryce Harper went up to the plate to bat on Monday night in a game against the Atlanta Braves. No big deal, right? 
Well during the at-bat, Tv cameras caught something un­usual on Harper’s bat. An emoji. 
Yes, that kind of emoji. Harper used a bat with a picture of a “100” emoji attached to the bot­tom of the bat knob. Harper also posted a picture on Instagram with the decal attached to two of his bats. This is because Harper is just one home run away from hitting career home run number 100 in his still young and prom­ising career. But that might not be the only reason why Harper added the decal to his bat. 
The MLB discourages play­ers from putting decals on their bats and have even fined players in the past for doing just that. This is just one of a number of rules that are frowned upon by a number of MLB players, includ­ing Harper. 
But it’s not just the writ­ten rules that are starting to discourage Harper. It’s the “unwritten” rules of the game of baseball, or how a player is supposed to act on a baseball diamond during a game, that Harper has had enough with. After the first game of the season, Harper wore a “Make Baseball Fun Again” hat, a knock off of Donald Trump’s “Make America Great Again” hat. 
In an interview with ESpN The Magazine at the beginning of spring training last month, Harper expressed his dislike of the unwritten rules of baseball and said they’re hurting the game more than helping it. 
“Baseball’s tired,” Harper said. “It’s a tired sport, because you can’t express yourself. You can’t do what people in other sports do. I’m not saying baseball is, you know, boring or anything like that, but it’s the excitement of the young guys who are com­ing into the game now who have flair. 
“If a guy pumps his fist at me on the mound, I’m going to go, ‘Yeah, you got me. Good for you. Hopefully I get you next time. That’s what makes the game fun. You want kids to play the game, right?” 
A lot of baseball people didn’t like these comments, includ­ing Hall-of-Fame pitcher Goose Gossage, who sounded off on Harper and the current state of baseball in an interview last month with ESpN Radio 1000 in Chicago. 
“You were supposed to act like a professional and conduct yourself in every manner, in every way as a professional,” Gossage said. “You know, now it’s all about self-promoting and hitting home runs and bombs and showing up the pitcher and trotting around, doing your little act, your tired little act around the bases and at home plate and in the dugout and all that stuff. … It’s just the way that I was brought up. You know, it seems like money has really changed this game. And not for the best.” 
Although I agree with what Gossage said about being pro­fessional, I disagree with him and other baseball purists about how the unwritten rules are good for the game. In fact, I be­lieve they’re the exact opposite: They hurt more than they help the game. 
pitchers don’t like when bat­ters show them up by flipping their bat after a big hit? Ok, then strike them out. Batters don’t like when pitchers show them up after a strike out? Then hit the ball into the bleachers. That’s just the nature of sports. 
I hate it when a pitcher inten­tionally hits a batter because the batter did a bat flip or walked around the bases too long the previous at-bat. Those kinds of incidents make the game look stupid, not just to me, but to younger kids and potential future baseball players. Those actions discourages them from wanting baseball because they don’t want to play a game they think is stupid. 
Look at the Mvp’s of other sports: Cam Newton (NFL), Stephen Curry (NBA) and most likely patrick Kane (NHL). What do they all have in common? Not only are they great players, they’re also great showmen. They make their sport look fun to play. That’s why their respec­tive sports are slowly becoming more and more popular. 
This is just the world we live in nowadays. Fans, especially kids, don’t want to just watch the game itself anymore, they want to be entertained while they’re watching it, and they want to have fun while they’re playing it. They want to mimic Newton’s touchdown dances or Kane’s goal celebrations. 
Bryce Harper is the future face of baseball, and baseball needs an attitude change. I think it’s good he’s ruffling feathers with baseball purists and trying to bring the game he loves into the 21st century and to “Make Baseball Fun Again.” 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MLB | METS 2, MARLINS 1 

Familia earns third straight save against Marlins 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Ahead by two runs, Mets manager Terry Collins brought in Jeurys Familia for the third straight day. 
For a five-out save. 
On the 11th day of the season. 

After a 2-5 start, the defend­ing NL champions were feeling pressure. 
“This is a game we had to have. We couldn’t sacrifice an­other game,” Collins said after Wednesday’s 2-1 win over the Miami Marlins, which stopped a four-game losing streak. 
Kevin plawecki grounded a tie-breaking, two-run single through a drawn-in infield in the seventh inning, and after throwing 36 pitches the previous two nights, Familia tossed 23 more. 
“I’m not worried about the confidence. I’m worried about the perception is that there’s no energy here, which is completely not true, that we’re not prepared, we’re overconfident or we’re not taking thing seriously,” Collins said. “I heard that last night and it made me sick to my stomach, that people actually think that this team, that accomplished what they did last year, would have any semblance of that type of makeup.” 
After reaching the World Series for the first time since 2000, Mets players found some offbeat ac­tivities during spring training. Yoenis Cespedes arrived in a half-dozen customized, luxury vehicles, and he spent $7,000 at the St. Lucie County Fair on a 270-pound grand-champion hog. Cespedes and Noah Syndergaard rode horseback across the complex one day. 
Collins worried about how fans would view the team through the prism of New York’s tabloid and talk-radio sports culture. 
“I’m not deaf, and I’m not blind. I listen. I see how people are re­acting. I hear what’s going on,” Collins said. “I read the stuff, and I read between the lines of what’s being said.” 
Mets captain David Wright, who is being careful with his bad back, volunteered to play third base in the day game following a night game. 
“This isn’t the start that we thought about and planned to have,” he said. 
New York began the day with the worst batting average in the major leagues at .187 and was 29th in runs with 18. Collins didn’t start Lucas Duda against left-hander Adam Conley, and Wilmer Flores made his first big league start at first base. 
Logan verrett started in place of injured Jacob deGrom and was superb, allowing three hits in six shutout innings. Hansel Robles and Jerry Blevins (1-0) then com­bined to escape a bases-loaded, no-outs jam in the seventh cre­ated by Jim Henderson. 
Robles threw a called third strike past Miguel Rojas and got pinch hitter Derek Dietrich to swing at a third strike. The left-handed Blevins fell behind NL batting champion Dee Gordon 3-0 before retiring him on a fly to short left. 
Conley struck out a career-high nine in six scoreless in­nings, but Dustin McGowan (0-1) faltered. Flores singled, took second on a wild pitch and third on Asdrubal Cabrera’s single. McGowan retired Juan Lagares on a comebacker, but plawecki hit a two-hopper just past the out­stretched glove of Rojas at short­stop for his first hit this season. 
“If you start saying games are must wins, I think there’s some pressure that really is not need­ed,” plaweicki said, “but definite­ly there was a sense of urgency to get a win today.” 
Bothered by flu-like symp­toms, Familia entered with one on in the eighth, got Giancarlo Stanton to fly out, then gave up a hit to Martin prado and an RBI single to Justin Bour. He retired 
J.T. Realmuto on a comebacker and pitched a perfect ninth for his second save, striking out Gordon on a 95 mph sinker for the final out. 
“My body is a little tired maybe because I’m sick, but my arm is good,” he said. 
New York went 2-4 on its first homestand, then headed to Cleveland for a day off before a weekend series. 
“We’ve gotten off to a slow start. It happens. It happens. It’s part of the game,” Collins said. “There’s a lot of teams that get off to great starts and falter. There’s teams that get off to slow starts that have huge second halves and run away with stuff. I just thought it was important today for our fan base to stay excited.” 
Then he spoke again about image. 
“We’re talking about some­thing now that’s going to be writ­ten up tomorrow like we’re on the cutting edge here, we’re walking that razor blade,” he said. “We’re not. We just wanted to win today.” 

MLB | MARINERS 4, RANGERS 2 
Lee blasts walk-off home run in Mariners’ win 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE — Dae-Ho Lee hit a two-run, pinch-homer with two outs in the 10th inning on Wednesday, lifting the Seattle Mariners over the Texas Rangers 4-2 for their first win of the year at Safeco Field. 
After starting out 0-5 at home, the Mariners won on Lee’s sec­ond home run of the season. Robinson Cano hit his fifth hom­er for Seattle. 
The right-handed hitting Lee, who spent the last four years in Japan after 11 seasons in his na­tive South Korea, came on to bat for Adam Lind against left-hander Jake Diekman (0-1). Lee launched an 0-2 pitch deep over the left-field wall for his second homer. 
Nelson Cruz reached on a one-out error by second baseman Rougned Odor, but was forced out by Kyle Seager, setting up Lee. 
Steve Cishek (1-1) pitched two innings. 
Delino DeShields brought the Rangers even at 2 in the eighth with a solo homer, his first. 
Cano put Texas in front 2-1 in the fifth with a solo shot, his first home run since April 5. He had been in a 2-for-21 slump before connecting. 
The Rangers manufactured a run in the third with the aid of two contested calls. DeShields beat out a deep throw from Seager at third for an infield single. The Mariners chal­lenged, but the on-field call was upheld after a review of nearly 4 minutes. 
Nomar Mazara bounced into an apparent 4-6-3 double play, but DeShields was called safe at second because shortstop Ketel Marte missed the bag on the re­lay. DeShields then came around on Adrian Beltre’s two-out single. 
Texas gave the run back in the bottom half when Norichika Aoki’s leadoff drive went off the glove of left fielder Ian Desmond for a two-base error and Seth Smith followed with a single to make it 1-all. 
prior to the game, manager Scott Servais was unsure of the availability of LHp Joaquin Benoit who had been day to day with shoulder stiffness since his last outing April 8. With an off day Thursday, Benoit was not used. 


THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

SMC Lax 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 18 
finished the game with 33 total goals. 
The win over the Thunder was a key one for the Belles, as they are over the .500 mark for the first time, not only for the season, but for the first time in the young program’s history. The Belles had previ­ously not had a winning re­cord at any point over their first two-plus seasons. Long said she is very pleased but not at all surprised by her team’s success so far this season. 
“It is great to be over the .500 mark on the year this far into our season,” Long said. “Being undefeated in confer­ence after three games is an even better feeling, but we set both having a winning season and qualifying for our con­ference tournament as team goals this year. We are excited to see our hard work translat­ing into wins on the field, but we are not surprised by what we have accomplished so far in conference play.” 
The Belles’ next game will be played at home against Albion. This should be an es­pecially important game for Saint Mary’s as it is current­ly tied with Hope (4-3, 3-0 MIAA) and the Britons (4-6, 3-0 MIAA) for first place in the MIAA standings. The Belles are one of only two MIAA teams with a winning record overall and could potentially take over first place outright with a win on Saturday. Long expects the Belles’ momen­tum to carry forward into the Albion game, but she also expects Albion to pose a defi­nite obstacle, although she is confident her team can over­come it. 
“We are focused on using the momentum from our past three wins as we prepare to take on the MIAA defend­ing champions on Saturday,” Long said. “I expect Albion to be one of the best teams we’ve seen all year and I can’t wait to see our team rise to the challenge. This week at practice, we have been fo­cusing on tightening up our defense, both in the critical scoring area and midfield as well as taking better shots. Albion has a solid goalie so it will be important that we take better shots than we did in our Trine game.” 


Saint Mary’s and the Britons will face off Saturday at 1 p.m. The game will be played at the lacrosse field at Saint Joseph High School in South Bend. 
Contact Elizaeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu 

NBA | pISTONS 112, CAvALIERS 110 
Pistons squeak past Cavaliers, James sits out 
Associated Press 
CLEvELAND — Kyrie Irving slid a chair in front of the large flat screen Tv in Cleveland’s locker room so he could get a closer look at Kobe Bryant’s farewell. 
When Bryant knocked down a couple jumpers, Irving jumped from his seat and screamed. 
He was a cheerleader all night. 
LeBron James wore a black blazer and watched from the bench with Irving and every starter for Cleveland and Detroit rested for their first-round play­off matchup as Jodie Meeks scored 20 points to lead the pistons to a 112-110 overtime win against the Cavaliers on Wednesday night. 
James rushed onto the court to celebrate when Jordan McRae’s 3-pointer tied it 103-all and forced OT. But Meeks, who played just 17 minutes all season because of a foot injury, scored four in the extra session. McRae scored 36 and had a chance to tie it in the final second, but bat­tling leg cramps, he missed two free throws after being fouled on a 3-pointer. 
The only starter to take the floor was Cleveland center Tristan Thompson, but he com­mitted a foul after the jump ball and was replaced after four seconds to extend his consecu­tive games played streak to 370 
— a franchise record and the league’s longest current run. The pistons and Cavaliers will play Game 1 this weekend. This was anything but a play­off preview. 
The top-seeded Cavs weren’t going to risk any injuries and coach Tyronn Lue made the de­cision to sit James, Kyrie Irving, Kevin Love and J.R. Smith for the home finale. Irving, though, wanted to play and there was uncertainty — and drama — about his status up until an hour before tip-off. 
Irving said he met with Lue and general manager David Griffin before the trio agreed that the star guard should dress but not play. 
“He’s trying to get this rhythm, I just thought this wasn’t a good game to try,” Lue said. “He had a great game last game. It’s just too risky, if you’re feeling good, your body is great, why risk it? Why chance it? It wasn’t a smart move to me. You always want to give the player the benefit of the doubt for wanting to play because you get paid to play, but in this situation, I didn’t think it was smart.” 
pistons coach Stan van Gundy reluctantly sat his starters after learning Lue’s plan. 
Detroit finished 44-38, im­proving 12 wins over last season. 
“It’s a big improvement,” van Gundy said. “We broke the longest streak in the Eastern Conference in missing the play­offs. We had seven straight los­ing seasons and then to get to 
44. So there were a lot of good things and a lot of progress.” 
van Gundy had hoped to give his starting five another night to together to develop more rhythm before the eighth-seed­ed pistons take on the Cavs, who are favored to return to the Finals for the second year in a row. 

NHL | pENGUINS 5, RANGERS 2 
Penguins blitz Rangers 5-2 
Associated Press 

pITTSBURGH — Banished to the third string in January, Jeff Zatkoff could have checked out. Instead, the pittsburgh goalie kept showing up at the rink every day, cracking jokes to keep things loose and help­ing rookie Matt Murray — who took Zatkoff’s job as primary backup to Marc-Andre Fleury 
— get used to life in the NHL. 

Then a concussion sidelined Fleury. Ditto, Murray. And suddenly pittsburgh’s forgot­ten man was thrust into the role of unlikely starter head­ing into the playoffs. Zatkoff hardly looked overcome by the stage. Steady at the start and sharp throughout, Zatkoff made 35 saves in the penguins’ 5-2 victory over the New York Rangers in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference quarterfi­nals Wednesday night. 
“He was our best player,” said pittsburgh forward patric Hornqvist after his first career playoff hat trick. 
And every bit the equal of New York star Henrik Lundqvist, who played just 20 minutes before exiting af­ter taking a stick to the eye from teammate Marc Staal late in the first period. Staal was tied up in front of the New York net when his stick found its way in between the bars on Lundqvist’s facemask. Lundqvist writhed in pain on the ice for several moments and stayed through the end of the period, the last shot he faced a rebound from Hornqvist that gave the penguins a lead they would never relinquish. 
Lundqvist will be re-evalu­ated Thursday and will have a little extra time to recover with Game 3 not scheduled until Saturday. 
“I felt the stick in his helmet; I didn’t know where I got him,” Staal said. “Any time he goes down like that, and legs are kicking, it’s not a good sign.” 
Antti Raanta stepped in and was shaky, giving up three goals on 19 shots as pittsburgh took advantage once Lundqvist — who had won seven of his last eight playoff starts against the penguins — left. Derek Stepan scored twice but the Rangers saw their four-game road winning streak in pittsburgh come to an abrupt halt. 
“There were a few things I think we can build on, but I do know that we’ve got quite a few guys that need to play bet­ter than they did tonight,” New York coach Alain vigneault said. “We’re going to have to play better as a team.” 
Sidney Crosby had a goal and two assists for pittsburgh and rookie Tom Kuhnhackl also scored for the penguins, but the star was the under­stated 28-year-old goalie who took his demotion in stride. He spent plenty of time with pittsburgh goaltending coach Mike Bales to stay sharp. Tasked with keeping the 14-2 surge the penguins put to­gether to end the regular sea­son intact, Zatkoff went about his business with the crispness surprising for a player making just his sixth appearance since Jan. 1. 
“You just have to make sure you’re staying ready in case the team needs you and find­ing you times to get on the ice to get those shots and get that work,” Zatkoff said. “Obviously not the circumstances you want to come in.” 
Not that it seemed to bother Zatkoff with Lundqvist — making his 111th career play­off start — on the other end of the ice. Good thing because his teammates gave him little help early. New York domi­nated the opening minutes, throwing shots at Zatkoff from all angles rather than trying to set anything up. Zatkoff lacks Fleury’s athleticism but man­aged to scramble when re­quired, keeping the penguins afloat early while his team­mates took time to find their legs. 

pAID ADvERTISEMENT 



NBA | WARRIORS 125, GRIZZLIES 104 
Curry leads Warriors to 73 wins and history 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, California — Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors took their last shot at Michael Jordan and history and they swished it — for 73. 
Down to their final chance at the record, the Warriors became the first 73-win team Wednesday night by beat­ing the Memphis Grizzlies 125-104, breaking what many considered an unmatch­able mark set 20 years ago by Jordan’s Chicago Bulls — oh, and Golden State coach Steve Kerr, too. 
Curry achieved yet one more shooting milestone, becoming the first player to make 400 3-pointers in a season by knocking down 10 from long range on the way president Barack Obama right. They absolutely wanted to 46 points and 402 total 3s. sent a tweet that said: this record, even when they Golden State saved one last “Congrats to the @warriors, a could have been resting up for record for the closing day of great group of guys on and off the next challenge: to repeat. the regular season, and did the court. If somebody had to And Curry? No doubt about it for a roaring, sellout home break the Bulls’ record, I’m it. He came out and did what crowd at Oracle Arena. Yet glad it’s them.” he has all along during this these Warriors want nothing NBA Commissioner Adam sensational season: Let it fly more than to build off their Silver released a statement, from anywhere on the floor. remarkable run so far and saying: “Congratulations to Curry had seven 3-pointers ride it to another title. the Golden State Warriors on by halftime, then hit No. 400 

Draymond Green had 11 their 73rd win and the best just 43 seconds into the third. points, nine rebounds and regular-season record in NBA Already the first player to seven assists as defending history. The team held itself make 300 3-pointers in a sea-champion Golden State (73-9) to a high standard through-son, he knocked down six in topped the Jordan-led 1995-out the season, playing with the first quarter and three 96 Bulls who went 72-10. purpose every night and straight during one jaw-drop-
When the final buzzer captivating fans around the ping stretch that included a sounded, Green bounded world with its free-flowing 31-footer well behind the top onto the floor and grabbed style, spectacular shooting of the arc. And Curry imme­the game ball as confet-and flair for the dramatic. diately began trending on ti streamed down and “73 Kudos to the entire Warriors Twitter. WINS” appeared on the organization.” Curry shattered his own scoreboard. The Warriors went for it, all single-season record of 286 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 

from a year ago. When he hit his 400th, the reigning Mvp raised his arms and patted his chest in celebration. 
He made 10 of 19 3-pointers and shot 15 for 24 overall to go with six assists as fans chant­ed “M-v-p! M-v-p!” all eve­ning. Klay Thompson added 16 points with four 3s of his own before Curry rested the fourth quarter and Thompson most of it. 
For all of those so-called experts who doubted the Warriors’ first champion­ship in 40 years last June that didn’t go through San Antonio, this season might have changed their tune. 
Golden State not only won nearly every night with a cool swagger and new focus on the offensive end but with a determination to be far bet­ter than during that special season. 
From Day 1, Kerr chal­lenged the Warriors to make big strides. 
Already the Western Conference’s No. 1 seed head­ing into this weekend’s play­offs, Golden State had to get past the very Memphis team the Warriors squeaked by 100-99 four days earlier on the Grizzlies’ home floor to keep themselves in position to make history. 
The Warriors whipped the Grizzlies 119-69 at home back on Nov. 2, with the 50-point win the third-largest margin of victory in franchise history. 
No champagne celebrations were planned for this focused bunch. 
“Absolutely not. You’ve got to save that ‘til June. I mean you might have a glass of wine after the game but that’s about it,” Thompson said. “This record doesn’t mean a thing if we don’t take care of business in the postseason.” 
Kerr missed his team’s 24-0 start and the first 43 games overall — Luke Walton led the Warriors to a 39-4 record in Kerr’s absence — while deal­ing with complications fol­lowing two back surgeries. 
The Warriors had their NBA-record 54-game home winning streak in the regular season snapped in an April 1 loss to Boston at Oracle. Golden State finished 39-2 at home for the second straight year. 
Zach Randolph scored 24 points to lead Memphis, which lost its fourth in a row to end the season. 
Tip-Ins 
Grizzlies: The Grizzlies were swept 4-0 by the Warriors for the first time since losing all four meetings in 2007-08. ... Memphis lost 10 of its final 11. The Grizzlies finished 16-25 on the road, losing their last six. 


THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 

SMC LACROSSE | SMC 10, TRINE 4 
SMC above .500 for first time in program history 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s extended its winning streak and re­mained undefeated in MIAA 
action  Tuesday  evening  
when  the  Belles  defeated  
Trine, 10-4.  

Saint Mary’s (6-5, 3-0 MIAA) had strong momen­tum going into the game after dominating Olivet on Saturday, 20-0, in a record-setting performance for the program in terms of points scored and goals allowed. The Belles carried this mo­mentum over, getting off to a good start against Trine, making the first offensive move when sophomore mid­fielder Clare Theisen, who has been one of the Belles’ main offensive weapons so far this season, scored the first goal of the game. According to Belles head coach Amy Long, Theisen had a very solid game and continues to be one of the Belles’ biggest assets. 
“Clare Theisen had an out­standing game for us,” Long said. “She set a new team record for ground balls in a game with 10.” 
The Thunder (0-7, 0-3 MIAA) were quickly able to even the score, but the Belles soon took charge. Junior captain and attack/ midfielder Emilie vanneste scored to regain the lead for the Belles. Her goal was quickly followed by fresh­man midfielder Kate Kelly’s 30th and 31st goals for the season. 
After controlling the ball for much of the first pe­riod, the Belles closed out the first half with a 4-2 lead over the Thunder and the Belles’ control of the game only increased in the second period. 
Junior captain and goal­keeper Shannon Weyer, who played the entirety of the sixty minutes for the third consecutive game, held the Thunder to only two addi­tional goals in the second period.The La Grange park, Illinois, native picked up seven saves over the course of the game. The Belles, by contrast, scored six points in the closing period. 
vanneste helped to round out the Belles’ scoring for the day to finish the game with two goals and Theisen scored four of the Belles’ six goals in the second period. She tallied up a total of five goals for the day and sur­passed Kelly as the Belles’ leading scorer on the sea­son. Kelly scored once more in the second period, giving her a total of 32 goals so far this year, while Theisen 
see SMC LAX PAGE 16 


pAID ADvERTISEMENT 



ROWING 

Irish face serious competition at Natoma 
By ALEX BENDER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will head west to Gold River, California, this weekend where the 18th-ranked Irish will par­ticipate in the Lake Natoma Invitational. 
The regatta boasts signifi­cant talent as there are a to­tal of seven ranked teams that will be competing: No. 1 Brown, No. 2 California, No. 7 Stanford, No. 12 Wisconsin, No. 15 Gonzaga, No. 16 Iowa and the Irish. 
“We’ll be racing [California], Stanford, Wisconsin, Iowa and Gonzaga, all being ranked within the top 18,” Stone said. “We know it will be very competitive, but we’ve always believed in rac­ing a hard schedule so this is nothing new for us. We’ll see once we get out there how we perform.” 
Notre Dame is coming off a long stretch of training as their last regatta, the Big 10­ACC Double Dual hosted by Indiana at Lake Lemon, was cancelled due to inclement weather. The last time the Irish were in action was the last weekend of March at the Longhorn Invitational. 
“I feel that we’ve practiced well over the last couple weeks and we have done a heavy load of work,” Stone said. “The team has reacted well to it, so we’ll see. It’s one of those things where we’ll find out Saturday and Sunday where we are.” 
Specifically regarding the performance of his team, Stone said he is more con­cerned with whether his team improves as the races prog­ress throughout the week­end than worrying about the how the other schools per­form, especially when going up against opponents of this strength. 
“I just expect that we race well and that with each suc­cessive race we can perform better than the last,” Stone said. “We’re learning how to race better and perform bet­ter as the season progresses. As far as any specific results, we can’t worry about that right now as we’ll be taking on a really fast group, so we’re just hoping to race better and learn, and then we can move on from there.” 
With a couple of races notched under their belt, the team will be busy heading the rest of the way, and expecta­tions are lofty going down this final stretch of the year, Stone said. 
“We’ve got races both this weekend and next weekend followed up by the ACCs, so our ultimate goal will be to make the NCAA’s and beat our performance from last year, and that’s we strive for every day when we come out here,” Stone said. “As this season has gone on, our improvement is tough to measure. We’ve had a couple races so far against some very fast competition, much like this weekend. As of late, our training load has increased, and I think we’ve adapted well to it. We’re liking what we are seeing, so I would say we feel pretty good head­ing the rest of the way.” 
After the Lake Natoma Invitational, the Irish will travel to Sacramento, California for the Dale England Cup and then, on May 13, the ACC champion­ships commence. 
Racing will kick off Saturday and continue into Sunday as the Irish will take another step along the way to the ul­timate goal of getting back to NCAAs. 
Contact Alex Bender at       abender@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles look to establish winning streak at Bethel 
By VICTORIA LLORENS 
Sports Writer 
After its 9-0 win over Trine on Tuesday, Saint Mary’s has a chance to enter its second three-game winning streak on Thursday with a victory over Bethel. 
Against the Thunder (3-9, 0-3 MIAA), the Belles (10­4, 2-1 MIAA) swept both singles and doubles play, starting off with sophomore Maddie Minaduo and senior Margaret Faller, who took an 8-2 victory at two doubles. Freshman Monica Davy and junior Sam Setterblad next succeeded with an 8-3 win at one doubles, and junior Kaity venters and senior Andrea Fetters finished dou­bles off with an 8-5 victory in the third flight. Belles head coach Dale Campbell said that the team prepared well for the competition. 
“I have to say that Trine was not quite as strong as usual, but we definitely pre­pare well, the team gets fo­cused, they are warming up better and are business-like in their approach,” Campbell said. “They recognize the importance of coming out ready. There is some feed­ing off of each other’s suc­cess definitely, and I think they want to do well for each other.” 
The Belles then triumphed in six singles matches and Campbell said that the team took care of business after its first conference loss on Saturday. 
“They have pride in them­selves and their team and seem to enjoy the battle quite a bit,” Campbell said. “They were really mature in coming back after a loss and taking care of business against North Central.” 
Fetters defeated Thunder senior Lexi Mack 6-3, 6-1 on court No. 1 to start the singles action. Davy fol­lowed with a 6-3, 6-0 victory over her opponent, sopho­more Madison Hatkevich on court No. 2 and Faller added a 6-2, 6-0 win of her own on court No. 3. Minuado swept sophomore Kinnsey pass, 6-0, 6-0 on Court No. 4. To round out the action for the Irish, venters and freshman Elizabeth priester won their matches 6-0, 6-2 and 6-1, 6-2 respectively. 
On Thursday St. Mary’s plays against Bethel (9-9, 1-7 Crossroads), a game re­scheduled from March 31. Campbell said that although it is not a conference game, the team will be ready to perform come game time and continue practicing their play. 
“I think they are all im­portant, not just as wins, but mainly that you have to practice preparing for matches, practice getting off to a good start and practice taking care of each situa­tion individually,” Campbell said. “Tennis is a series of individual situations, and you have to come ready to play one at a time. It may have been a slight advantage to play it earlier, but the team is off Wednesday to rest. They will be ready on Thursday.” 
Campbell also said that there are areas where he continues to look for im­provement among his team. 
“We still can be much more assertive in doubles, and we are still tweaking that, Campbell said. “In sin­gles, we have to be quicker in preparation, quicker in re­covery after shots, and fight to keep making one more shot.  We are getting there.” 
The Belles will face off against Bethel on Thursday at 4 p.m at Saint Mary’s Tennis Courts. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at            vllorens@nd.edu 

pAID ADvERTISEMENT THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 



TRACK 

Irish athletes bound for ACC/Big 10 Challenge 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
Sports Writer 
After several strong per­formances over the past few weekends, the Irish head into the ACC/Big Ten this Saturday looking to continue their re­cent success. 
This past weekend, the team competed in the Sun Angel Classic in Arizona, and had a number of strong performanc­es. Although the team only sent sixteen athletes, the Irish notched 13 top-5 finishes over the two days of competition. On Friday, junior Anthony Shivers finished second in the hammer throw, and sopho­more Nick Hauser came in fifth in the premiere hammer throw. On Saturday, the Irish were led by senior Margaret Bamgbose, who made her out­door debut this season with two first place finishes — one in the 400-meter dash and the other in the 4x400-meter re­lay. Graduate student Carly Loeffel also came in first in the women’s heptathlon, ac­cumulating 5,329 points. 
Freshman high jumper Matt Birzer finished sixth in the men’s high jump compe­tition last weekend and the Leadwood, Kansas native said he relishes the opportunity being around star athletes. 
“It definitely helps seeing my teammates perform well,” Birzer said. “At indoor con­ferences for example, [senior] Brent Swanberg and Carly Loeffel started off the meet with awesome days of their events. That energized [soph­omore high jumper] Hunter Holton and I to both [personal records] in the high jump, and then [junior] Nate Richartz carried it over into the pole vault were he won the meet.” 
Birzer said the Irish have been training hard this week, and are looking to use this weekend as a stepping-stone for ACCs and the NCAA meet at the season’s end. 
“We are more worried about peaking at ACCs and beyond,” Birzer said. “We have still been training hard. ... It’s another week of trying to get ready for ACCs and to hit marks to qual­ify for regionals.” 
Unlike the Sun Angel Classic, the Irish are sending a large number of athletes to the ACC/Big 10 Challenge, and the team will be going up against some top competi­tion like Louisville, Michigan State and purdue. With such stiff competition, athletes like Birzer are relishing the chance to continue to develop. 



“I think besides me there will be five or six jumpers who had gone seven feet,” Birzer said. “It should be a really competitive meet with a fairly 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 
small pool of jumpers. I think that’s really going to ben­efit the competition because it will move fast and there should be some impressive performances. ... The weather should be nice and the rela­tively small size of the meet should be ideal for quality performances.” 
And regardless of the out­come, Birzer said the team, like always, is prepared to give its all. 
“[The game plan is] go out and give 100 percent,” Birzer said. “Every time we put on the ND monogram, that’s our goal. We always go out and compete our hardest.” 
The ACC/Big 10 challenge is scheduled to begin Saturday at noon in Louisville, Kentucky. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at       thoonhou@nd.edu 



BASEBALL | ND 3, vALpARAISO 1 
Hearne comes up big in win over valparaiso 
By HUNTER MCDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
One week after the first at­tempt at the game between Notre Dame and valparaiso was delayed after a full day of rain, the two teams finally met Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium on a beautiful day for baseball. 
The Irish (18-12, 6-7 ACC) rode senior starting pitcher Michael Hearne’s complete game to an easy 3-1 win over the visiting Crusaders (11-16, 5-3 Horizon). 
The Irish got on the board first with three consecutive hits in the bottom of the third inning. Junior third baseman Kyle Fiala and senior cen­ter fielder Kyle Richardson cracked back-to-back singles before junior second base­man Cavan Biggio drove a ball to the right-field fence for a triple and two RBIs. The next batter, freshman des­ignated hitter Nick podkul, followed that up with a sacri­fice fly to center field to score Biggio and give Notre Dame a 3-0 lead. 
That burst of offense in the third inning plated the only runs of the night for Notre Dame, but they were more than enough for Hearne. 
The lefty retired 13 consec­utive Crusader batters from the second inning into the seventh. valparaiso senior left fielder Nolan Lodden spoiled Hearne’s shutout, however, with a leadoff dou­ble in the top of the ninth be­fore coming around to score on an infield sacrifice. 
Hearne finished the day with just the one earned run on four hits and zero walks with five strikeouts. 
“Incredible,” Irish head coach Mik Aoki said about Hearne’s night. “Really re­markable. Considering, I don’t know what it was, 86 pitches or something. Ninety-one. He was really, re­ally good. He commanded it, commanded the fast ball. ... On a night where we weren’t as good offensively as we’ve been, he came up huge.” 
Notre Dame has won all seven games started by Hearne (4-0) this season so far. Tonight he dropped his season ERA from 3.18 to 2.72, which leads Irish starters. 
“My fastball command was there, and that’s usu­ally what sets me up pretty well, hitting both sides of the corner,” Hearne said. “And then before I fell into that groove, in the first and second inning the defense was really picking me up. [Cavan Biggio] made a nice play, [sophomore left fielder Jake Shepski] in the outfield. The defense really picked me up, and then the changeup started working and so did the fastball on both sides of the plate.” 
In a scary moment for Notre Dame, Fiala was struck by a pitch on his right hand, forcing him to the ground in pain. Wednesday’s game was just his third game back af­ter he was forced to miss a month with an injury to the same hand. Fiala came back out to field his position the next inning and was able to finish out the game. 
“He’s alright. It kind of got his pinky,” Aoki said. “It caught him on that same hand, though, which gives you a little pause for a second there. But he’s fine. He made 

pAID ADvERTISEMENT 


a couple plays after that, so I Next up for the Irish will think he was fine.” be a three game set against 
The Irish now lead the Boston College this weekend. all-time series against First pitch between Notre valparaiso 77-21, a series Dame and the Eagles (18-11, which dates back to 1918. 5-8 ACC) will be at 6:05 p.m. 
on Friday. All three games will be played at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at     hmcdani1@nd.edu 



Football 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 24 
I think [senior defensive back] Cole Luke’s taken a good step in the leadership area. 
“… A lot of players have a hard time leading when they’re devel­oping and getting consistency in their game and confidence in their game. I think we got guys that are capable but again are caught in a development stage where they’re trying to establish themselves.” 
One position group, in partic­ular, looking to establish itself is the defensive line. 
“It’s all kind of mixed up right now,” Irish defensive line coach Keith Gilmore said. “We got a great competition, a great ro­tation at the nose tackle with [graduate student] Jarron Jones and [junior] Daniel Cage. My hope is that the first and second guys don’t see too much differ­ence there. If we can go two-deep across the board and be solid, I think that’s what we’re aiming for.” 
Rochell is the only starter re­turning up front for the Irish and figures to be the key to the whole line. With relative uncertainties at the defensive tackle slot, there has been talk of moving Rochell to the inside or potentially to the right defensive end position. 
“I think at this point, I want to try and keep him [at defensive end],” Gilmore said. “If things change, and we need a person somewhere else, an inside guy, maybe in a pass rush situation, that might be a possibility. Right now, I think he’s solid at the big end and just becoming an effec­tive pass rusher out there and keep developing.” 
Gilmore, like vanGorder, also said he sees Rochell as a strong candidate to take over the lead­ership mantle left vacant by Sheldon Day and said he’s en­couraging the McDonough, Georgia, native to be more ac­tive in that role. 
“I’m trying to give him more opportunities to be a leader,” Gilmore said. “He’s played enough football around here that he’s a leader by example by what he does on the field. But I want to get him a little bit more vocal and step up.” 
Beyond Rochell, sophomore Jerry Tillery, junior Daniel Cage and graduate student Jarron Jones are competing for the two roles inside while junior Andrew Trumbetti has the inside line on the opposite end. Gilmore said that Tillery, especially, has im­proved and seems ready to play come the fall. 
“I’m happy, the last two days I’ve been really happy,” Gilmore said of Tillery’s recent perfor­mance in practice. “Most of the spring, I’ve been battling. And it’s not just the learning part. We all forget sometimes that Jerry is a freshman and the expectation becomes really high. ... I have to remember he’s a freshman and keep coaching him. He’ll be where we need him to be when the time comes.” 
Satellite camps 
A big topic in the college foot­ball world is the NCAA’s newly enacted rule that teams are no longer allowed to practice on satellite, or any other, campus­es. While opinion is divided on the ruling, Irish recruiting co­ordinator and linebacker coach Mike Elston said the rule will not change how Notre Dame operates. 
“We haven’t gotten into the satellites because we like to bring the kids to our campus,” Elston said. “We’re always striv­ing to get more of our prospects here on campus so they know and understand what Notre Dame is about. As long as we can continue to that, we never really had an issue, a want or desire to do a satellite camp. We just try to get guys here to our campus to be coached by us in our camps but also to see Notre Dame. You have to experience Notre Dame to understand it. If we go out to California somewhere to camp, kids still don’t know what we’re about.” 
Defensive player development 
Elston also touched on some players he felt showed strong improvement over the course of spring practices and mentioned sophomore linebacker Asmar Bilal as a player who has a lot to offer down the road. 
“He’s having a very good spring. He’s got great potential,” Elston said. “He works very hard. He’s a very aggressive physical football player. He learns really well. Is he Jaylon Smith? No. But Jaylon had to start somewhere, and that’s where Asmar is. He’s at the starting point of what we see as a very promising career.” 
Bilal is currently getting reps at the weakside linebacker position, but Elston said the Indianapolis native could see some time playing behind ju­nior Nyles Morgan at the middle linebacker slot. 
“Asmar’s got all those traits that you’re looking for,” Elston said. “To run and hit and be strong. … I think Asmar has some really good things that he’s doing this spring that makes us very excited.” 
Another player who has im­pressed coaches thus far is soph­omore defensive back Shaun Crawford. Even if Crawford doesn’t get a starting cornerback role, Irish defensive backs coach Todd Lyght said the Lakewood, Illinois, native will see time at the nickelback position. 
“I think when you’re looking at the nickel position, you’re looking for a guy with foot­ball intelligence and short-haired quickness,” Lyght said. “Understand two-three ex­changes, understand where their help is and be able to make those quick movements in and out. Shaun has position versatil­ity that we’re looking for at that position because of his short-haired quickness and burst.” 
vanGorder echoed Lyght’s compliments and said Crawford gives the defense a boost in versatility. 
“That’s a big position, it’s not easy to find those in-and-out corners like he is,” vanGorder said. “He opens the inven­tory up some, and he’s really intelligent.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at     mmazurek@nd.edu 
M Lax 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 24 
held without one for the first time all season in Saturday’s win against Duke. He opened the scoring for the Irish 1:47 into the game to tie it at one apiece after the Golden Eagles scored in the first minute. 
“Obviously if you score ear­ly, it gets our confidence up,” Kavanagh said. “Still, they were pretty confrontational playing us.” 
Both teams played physi­cally, making the other team work on every possession for each shot. Going into the game, the two teams were ranked first and second in the nation in goals allowed per game. 
By halftime the Irish had opened up a 5-2 lead on Marquette with tallies from freshman attack Ryder Garnsey, senior midfielder Cole Riccardi, junior mid­fielder Sergio perkovic and another goal from Kavanagh. 
The Golden Eagles came out energized for the second half, however, with three quick goals by sophomore midfield­er Tanner Thomson, junior midfielder Griffin Connor and senior attack Henry Nelson, tying things up just six and a half minutes in. 
The game would remain close the rest of the way, something that has become all too common for the Irish, with four of their previous five games decided by two goals or less — including two that went into overtime. 
“We know that we’re a de­fensive team first, so that af­fects maybe some of our style and risk taking where we could score more goals doing some other things,” Corrigan said. “But at the same time, I think we’ve just got to become a more disciplined team offensively.” 
Notre Dame would score the next two goals of the game, however, the first one courtesy of a Kavanagh rip from the right-hand side. That tally was followed up by one from sophomore midfielder John Sexton, who picked up a ground ball in the defen­sive end and sprinted all the way down the field to put one past Marquette’s sophomore goalie Cole Blazer with three seconds left in the quarter. 
A scoreless Notre Dame fourth quarter and two addi­tional Golden Eagle tallies set the stage for Kavanagh when play started in overtime. 
Still, Irish players and coaches alike weren’t pleased the game came down to the wire. 
“I just feel like our execu­tion is not where it needs to be,” Corrigan said. “I don’t think a lot of guys are happy with how we played, but ob­viously we’re happy with the result. [We have to] come back ready to go next week for North Carolina.” 
The Irish now have their longest break of the season before going on the road to take on the No. 11 Tar Heels to close out their ACC slate April 23 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at     bplamond@nd.edu 


pAID ADvERTISEMENT 



Mazurek 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 24 
Syracuse. Since then, the Irish have righted the ship, winning four out their last five in the midst of a six-game homestand. 
The victory over the Seminoles was important because it showed the Irish are for real. The Irish have only lost six games all year — three of them to teams that are currently ranked — but until the Florida State thriller, their “best” win was back on February 20 against No. 14 UCLA. 
With the win against Florida State under its belt, however, Notre Dame appears to be gear­ing up at the right time. And there are a couple big reasons why the Irish can make a post­season push. 
The first is pitching. 
Notre Dame features two strong pitchers in senior left-hander Allie Rhodes and junior right-hander Rachel Nasland. Rhodes and Nasland have 12 and 11 wins respectively, in ad­dition to sporting ERAs of 2.88 and 1.89. 
The two upperclassmen have been stalwarts for the Irish all season, pitching out of Notre Dame’s 222 total innings played, and the two have logged six complete games between them. 
One of those complete games was Rhodes’ victory over the Seminoles, when she allowed only three earned runs against one of the nation’s top offenses. If Rhodes can pitch like that for the rest of the season, the Irish will be in good shape. 


The second reason the Irish can make a push is their team hitting. While the Wester sisters (freshman second baseman Ali and junior center fielder Karley) have set the pace for the team all year, Notre Dame has a strong lineup top to bottom. 
Nine Irish batters have an average at .300 or higher, five players have more than 20 RBIs and seven have scored more than 20 runs. The fact that no one player provides a significant portion of the offense puts less pressure on the team and makes it difficult for opposing pitch­ers as they have to work against more batters. 
Finally, Notre Dame has been lights out at home this season. The Irish have a 6-1 home record entering Thursday evening’s matchup with Butler and with 
pAID ADvERTISEMENT 

the team’s final six ACC con­tests in the friendly confines of Melissa Cook Stadium, the Irish should be poised to enter the postseason with momentum. 
Of course, the postseason is more than a month away and a lot can happen — last week­end’s game against pittsburgh, which included an hour and 40 minutes of rain delays, showed that. But the fact remains: Notre Dame is trending upward at the right time. And with solid start­ing pitching and a multi-threat lineup, there’s nothing to stop the Irish from making noise in the postseason. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Softball 
CONTINUED FROM pAGE 24 
moving her and scoring her, and that’s just our focus — every in­ning, working together to string together runs.” 
“We hit a lot,” Wester said. “[Associate coach Lizzie Ristano] is a great coach, and she works with us all the time, so we don’t really have a ton times where a lot of players are in a rut. There’s usually some­body coming up big for us.” 
That’s not to say the effort on the mound hasn’t been strong either. In its last 13 games, Notre Dame’s pitching staff has held opponents to three runs or few­er nine times. Although Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf has not named a starter for the game against the Bulldogs (22-15, 5-3 Big East), it will likely be ei­ther junior right-hander Rachel Nasland or senior left-hander Allie Rhodes, as the duo has started 29 of the 34 games for the Irish. Both pitchers have an earned-run average under 3.00 and double-digit wins for Notre Dame this season. 
Butler has some talent of its own, however. In their lineup, the Bulldogs have five players reaching base at a clip above .400, and four of them are hit­ting over .300 from the dish. Additionally, the Irish will like­ly face Bulldogs senior pitcher Kristin Gutierrez. The left-hand­er has a team-best 1.73 earned-run average and has gone the distance in 12 of the 18 games she has started for the Bulldogs. 
While Gutierrez could pose a challenge for the red-hot offense of the Irish, piccinich said she is confident Notre Dame will be able to continue its success. 
“Our coaches are really good at preparing us for what other pitchers are throwing and what we can do to be successful, so there’s no doubt in my mind that we’ll be able to [find suc­cess],” piccinich said. 
And although they have won 18 nonconference games in a row by an average margin of victory of nearly six runs, the Irish have not overlooked any of their opponents, regardless of their record. Instead, they see each game as an opportunity to maintain their rhythm, regard­less of their opponent, Wester said. 
“We’ve had a big mentality this year of just ‘pitch by pitch,’ ‘game by game’ so we don’t re­ally look too far in advance to the weekend,” Wester said. “It’s ‘We’re playing the game that day, and we’re winning the game that day.’” 
“I think [midweek games] def­initely get us ready for the week­end,” piccinich said. “ … It’s great to get games in midweek just to keep us going and keep us kind of in the groove of playing games. They definitely help us for ACC [play] going into it hav­ing to play during the week.” 
The Irish and Bulldogs will square off at Melissa Cook Stadium on Thursday. First pitch is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at     bpadanil@nd.edu 



CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Irish senior infielder Carly Piccinich rounds second base during Notre Dame’s 10-2 victory over Eastern Michigan on March 22. 

THE OBSERvER | THURSDAY, APRIL 14, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERvER.COM 
FOOTBALL 


As spring winds down, defensive starters not set 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Editor 
Wednesday morning marked Notre Dame’s penultimate spring practice before the Blue-Gold game this Saturday. 
And while across-the-board open competition has shed light on some areas of the team, oth­ers — notably defensive leader­ship — remain up in the air. 
After practice Wednesday, Irish defensive coordinator Brian vanGorder discussed the impact of losing leaders from last year like Joe Schmidt and Jaylon Smith, and he said the evolution of this year’s defensive leader­ship is ongoing. 
“I think [senior linebacker] James Onwualu is as solid of a guy we have relative to how he goes about his business daily, preparation, on-field effort,” vanGorder said. “He’s consistent, very knowledgeable. Not a real vocal guy though. [Senior defen­sive lineman] Isaac [Rochell] has gotta grow in that role up front. 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 22 

MEN’S LACROSSE | ND 8, MARQUETTE 7 
Kavanagh shines in overtime win 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
Sports Writer 

No. 1 Notre Dame has had a penchant for close games this season, and Wednesday night was no different. 
The Irish (9-1, 3-0 ACC) blew a three-goal lead but prevailed over No. 17 Marquette 8-7 in overtime on the back of senior at­tack Matt Kavanagh’s four goals. Ninety seconds into the extra period, the senior captain and preseason All-American decided to take it himself and give the Irish the win over the Golden Eagles (8-2, 3-0 Big East). 
“We all have great con­fidence and faith in Kav,” Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said. “There’s no­body that’s made more big plays in their college career than Matt Kavanagh. So there’s nobody in our hud­dle that doesn’t expect that he’s gonna make plays and do some of the things that he’s been doing. I’m not sur­prised by that. I’m thrilled for him, but I’m more just grateful that we’ve had him for four years and I get to watch him make one more play like that at the end of a game.” 
While pleased with the win, Corrigan said his team struggled with execution down the stretch. 
“It was not a very good performance by us today, but it was a very good per­formance by them — a very gritty performance,” Corrigan said. “They took us right to the last play of the game, I have to give them credit for that. But it was disappointing for us. I know our team is disappointed, but I think at this point we’ll take the win and guys will understand the standard we want to play to.” 
Kavanagh set the stan­dard for Notre Dame, tally­ing five points after being 
see M LAX PAGE 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Time is ripe for young Irish squad 
ND hopes to maintain offensive efficiency vs. Butler 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Associate Sports Editor 
No. 20 Notre Dame will look to win its 19th-straight non-conference game when it hosts Butler on Thursday at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The Irish (28-6, 6-3 ACC) have largely been led by their offense over the course of the last few weeks, scoring at least 10 runs in five of their last eight wins. In fact, the Irish rank sixth and 10th nationally in batting av­erage and runs per game, re­spectively. Co-captains junior center fielder Karley Wester and senior infielder Carly piccinich credit the team’s approach and coaching for the success they have found thus far. 
“I think it’s the pitch by pitch [approach],” piccinich said. “That’s just something we’ve really been focusing on this year. And kind of just working together — I mean, we’re re­ally big into sequencing, so like getting the leadoff [hitter on], 
see SOFTBALL PAGE 23 


Notre Dame looks poised for postseason run 

Marek Mazurek 
Sports Editor 
Times are good at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The Irish are winners of three straight games and cur­rently sit in third place in the ACC with a 28-6 overall record. 
And most importantly, the first of those three consecu­tive wins came against No. 8 Florida State on a walk-off single by sophomore left fielder Bailey Bigler. 
The victory snapped ACC-leading Florida State’s 22-game winning streak, but more im­portant than gaining a game on the Seminoles in the ACC, the April 3 victory proved the Irish are a threat come the postseason. 
Notre Dame started its sea­son rather well, winning 19 games in a row from the end of February to the end of March, but stumbled three weekends ago, losing two of three at 
see MAZUREK PAGE 23 






