The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 110 | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Students form subcommittee for WPC 
Campus organizations contribute to discussion about University’s ‘China policy’ on manufacturing 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
as a member of both the fair labor association and the worker rights consortium, notre dame prohibits its licensed products from being manufac­tured in countries that lack a legal right for workers to form independent labor unions of their choice. in 2013, university executive vice president John affleck-graves appointed the worker participation committee to review notre dame’s licensing code of conducts due to an in­creasing frequency of interac­tions between the university and china, according to the website of the office of the executive vice president. representatives from several student organizations came together in february to form a student worker participation committee (swpc). 
The “freedom of association” policy has been enforced since 2001 and has identified 11 coun­tries as ineligible for production of university products. in may of 2015, the worker participation committee wrote a “review of the freedom of association policy,” which assessed factories in china and other countries to better understand the status of worker participation. 
see china PAGE 4 



speaker explores korean, Japanese relations 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
Jae woong lee, deputy con­sul general for the republic of korea, spoke on korean-Japanese relations monday night in a lecture sponsored by the liu institute for asia and asian studies. 
according to lee, Japan and korea countries have shared 
— and continue to share — a long and complicated history. Their geological position and common culture should cre­ate favorable conditions for diplomatic relations, lee said, yet korean-Japanese relations continue to be strained. 

lee said ancient Japanese and korean art display “strik­ing similarities,” though ancient Japanese art is usu­ally sculpted from wood and korean sculptors preferred to use a bronze medium. 
“This is evidence of the close interactions and close relation­ship between korea and Japan more than 1,000 years ago,” lee said. “we like to boast that korean ancient history moved to Japan and had them give birth to their own Japanese culture.” 
Though the countries share a 
see relaTions PAGE 3 




Notre Dame committee to reform student parking 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
in response to student and faculty feedback, notre dame convoked an expanded com­mittee in february to reform student parking on and off campus. 
according to an email sent to the student body monday night from university vice president John affleck-graves, the committee is composed of a diverse selection of mem­bers representing several groups on campus. 
“i have asked the commit­tee to put together a holistic recommendation for parking solutions long term that bal­ances the needs and desires of the faculty, staff, students, and visitors, with the environmen­tal and economic impacts to campus,” affleck-graves said in an email to The observer. “i am hopeful that they will be able to put together a set of recommendations that will address the overall needs of the campus community.” 
affleck-graves said he has heard growing frustrations from the notre dame commu­nity in regards to the parking situation. 
“parking impacts almost everyone on campus and i know that it is becoming more and more of a challenge dur­ing this period of historic growth,” affleck-graves said. “it was important to me to put together a long term parking plan that was developed and 
see parking PAGE 4 


Students examine German response to refugee crisis 

By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
instead of relaxing on a beach or returning home to visit family, three notre dame students spent spring break in germany research­ing the syrian refugee crisis. 
sophomore francesco Tassi, who traveled to germany along with fresh­man christopher lembo and sophomore bridget rickard thanks to a grant from the nanovic institute for european studies, said he wanted to visit germany to research efforts to ameliorate the crisis. 
“[news outlets] never touch upon what some countries are actively doing to help integrate these people into their populations, and quite successfully for some … wanted to go there and see what was being done there in germany, as far as integra­tion,” he said. 
while most people think the refugee crisis only applies 
see crisis PAGE 3 


news PAGE 2 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 women’s baskeTball PAGE 12 fooTball PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager 
kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare kossler 
News Editor: katie galioto                        Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-5452 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
What is your favorite thing about springtime? 

Gabriela Portmann 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“sunshine and running around the lakes.” 
Kaitlyn Keffler 
sophomore breen-phillips hall 
“no more parkas.” 
Wiktoria Kozlowska 
freshman breen-phillips hall 
“sunshine.” 


Lauren Hill 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“sun coming back.” 
Emily Gust 
sophomore 
breen-phillips hall 
“Taking my princess blanket on the quad.” 
Utkarsh Sonkiya 
sophomore 
Zahm house 
“Quad music.” 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Want your event included here? 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 

(574)631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Italian Coffee Hour Softball vs. Michigan Evening Mass Celebration of the Women’s Lacrosse 
Photo Desk 

(574)
631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com Decio Faculty Hall State Basilica of the Sacred Lord’s Passion vs. Syracuse Systems & Web Administrators 4:30 p.m.- 5:30p.m. Melissa Cook Stadium Heart Basilica of the Sacred Arlotta Stadium 

(574)
631-8839 Practice Italian with 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 5 p.m.- 6 p.m. Heart 12 p.m.-2 p.m. members of the Italian The Irish take on the Celebrate the Lord’s 6:45 p.m.-7:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 


Policies 

Program. Spartans. Supper. Solemn liturgy.  Orange. 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, Holy Week Night of Film: “TOXI*City” Adoration in the Lady Stations of the Cross The Paschal Vigil including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
Prayer DeBartolo Performing Chapel Basilica of the Sacred Mass 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. Basilica of the Sacred Arts Center Basilica of the Sacred Heart Basilica of the Sacred The news is reported as accurately and objectively as Heart 8 p.m.-10 p.m. Heart 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. Heart possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
9 p.m.-10 p.m. Narrative segments on 6:30 p.m.- 11 p.m. Self-guided prayer and Begins at 9 p.m. 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, Featuring Folk Choir. Hurricane Sandy. Personal prayer. reflection. Easter Vigil Mass. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Saint Mary’s hosts film festival 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds 
have a greater awareness of the showing films from france, iran, 
By MEGAN UEKERT 

post office information news wrtier world beyond saint mary’s and be-argentina and Japan that are both 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. yond the united states,” she said. popular and award-winning films 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. saint mary’s center for women’s “a world film festival contributes from france, iran, argentina and 
The observer is published at: 

024 south dining hall intercultural leadership (cwil) is to this awareness, particularly be-Japan. 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices screening four international films posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: on campus this week as part of 
The observer 

p.o. box 779 the annual world cinema festival. 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-077 mana derakhshani, director of 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
cwil, said in an email that the festival is part of the effort to in­ternationalize campus and aims to bring students and faculty an op­portunity to acquire a more global 


News Sports 

catherine owers marek mazurek perspective through the cinema of nicole caratas hunter mcdaniel 
other countries. 

Jenna wilson rachel o’grady 
“saint mary’s world cinema 
Graphics Scene 
festival continues to support the 

eric richelsen miko malabute 
ongoing internationalization of the 
Photo Viewpoint 
curriculum and the college com­

kathryne robinson austin Taliaferro 
munity,” she said. “in addition, the festival brings to light the rich cinematic body of work that is be-
Corrections 

ing produced outside of the united The observer regards itself as states.” a professional publication and 
Julie storme, associate director of strives for the highest standards 
cwil, said in an email that inter-

of journalism at all times. we do, 
storme said saint mary’s students “Internationalization were able to suggest films to be in­cluded in the festival. 
requires that all 

“we’re showing a variety of films. 
members of our 

selection was based on a number of community have a factors — their recognition, the pic-greater awareness of ture they give of the way individu­
als live in the particular country, 
the world beyond Saint 

vignettes of life that those of us in 
Mary’s and beyond 

this country might not expect to ex-the United States. ... ist in the countries of origin of the A world film festival films we’re showing 
yesterday evening the festi­
contributes to this 

val began with a showing of the 
awareness, particularly 

french film “The intouchables.” because films offer us The iranian film “about elly,” the a glimpse into other argentinian film “The secret in 
Their eyes” and the Japanese film 
cultures ... ” 

“linda, linda, linda” will be shown 
Julia Storme 

Tuesday, wednesday and Thursday associate director, CWIL nights, respectively.  all films will be shown at 7 p.m. in the vander 
nationalization of the campus and cause films offer us a glimpse into vennet Theatre in the student 
however, recognize that we will make 
curriculum is one of the college’s other cultures — their values, per-center. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
strategic goals. spectives and they way that people 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | The observer 

issue of “comfort women.” The perfect for people who come it was to my surprise that so 

Relations Crisis 

over that may not speak the many refugees were so rap-term refers to the practice in 
conTinued from page 1 
conTinued from page 1 
countries occupied by Japanese 

language, may not have the idly looking for a chance to rule, including korea, in which 
highest work skills,” he said. contribute. it is one thing to related history, lee said tensions young women were taken from 
to syria, germany has ac-“germany needs these jobs, see the problem through the remain in the current Japanese-their homes and taken to “com­
cepted a large number of so you really have a case lens of the media, but it is korean relations, yet have not fort stations,” where they were 
refugees from countries all where germany’s interests another thing to encounter kept the countries from working forced into sexual slavery. 
over the world, Tassi said. reconcile and work with the it for yourself.” together on prominent issues. lee said korea and Japan 
“The one country in europe interests of asylum-seekers, in each of her interviews, “There is a prolonged, un-reached a tentative agreement in 
that is taking in most of the because germany will give rickard said,“one salient stable relationship from various december to resolve the dispute 
refugees [is germany],” them housing, it will give theme emerged — the only factors. even though korea and over this issue, and this agree-
Tassi said. “right now it’s them a job, but at the same viable starting point for Japan have a close history, there ment represents a large success 
about 1.2 million, 1.4 million time, germany expects any possible solution is an are still problems,” he said. for the diplomatic relationship 
refugees in general, but not something from them.” encounter with refugees These problems stem from between the two countries. 
just syrian refugees. [There Tassi said he was surprised through our shared human the way the Japanese govern-“Japan is finally accepting 
are refugees] from kosovo, by the initiatives of german experience.” ment portrays this shared his-more responsibility for this is-
eastern europe, nigeria — citizens that go beyond the “refugees, like others tory, lee said. sue and they agreed to provide 
a little bit from all over the government’s efforts. among the forcibly dis-lee said the korean people 
world.” “These grassroots are able placed, live on the margins are worried the Japanese are 
Tassi said the education to take a government that of society. my interviews en­
“Japan is finally 
promoting a type of revisionist 

system was one of the most is a little bit overwhelmed abled me to develop a more history, through endorsing text-
visible examples of the with all the bureaucracy robust understanding of the books that incorrectly portray 
accepting more 

german government’s effort that comes with anything current situation in both 
responsibilty for 
the invasion of korean lands, to integrate refugees into governmental, and they germany and europe,” she 

this issue and they 
and by authorizing such books, society. said in an email. “and it is 

agreed to provide 
the Japanese government is re­
“The education system is 
my hope that i can employ 
“The education 
fusing to depict past wrongs. 
phenomenal,” he said. “The 

such understanding in my “This is just one of the main 
us compensation.” 
plan is five years of free edu­

system is future contributions to the 
Jae Woong Lee 
headaches, one of the stumbling 
cation — two years of learn-

phenomenal. The exploration and framing of 
deputy consul general 
blocks over which there is a di­
ing german and then three 
questions of forced displace-
plan is five years 
Republic of Korea 
vide between Japan and korea,” 
years of social integration 
ment and migration. 
of free education 
lee said. 
classes, just for the refugees, 

“my experience has led to many koreans are offended us compensation. The Japanese 
and you don’t have to be just 

— two yeras of the realization that i wish to by Japanese politicians’ visits to government clearly said ‘sorry’ 
syrian, as long as you’re an 

learning German devote my life to some of the to yasukuni shrine, lee said. to korea,” lee said. 
asylum-seeker.” 
most marginalized members 
and then three 

“This is just one of the shrines lee said Japanese-korean 
refugees also have the 
of the human family — in-
years of social 

that Japan has. but this specific relations can only continue to 
option to attend vocational 

ternally displaced persons, shrine, they have the names of prosper if both countries con-
schools to learn a particu­

integration migrants and refugees.” the war criminals ... ” lee said. tinue to be sensitive to and 
lar skill to contribute to the 

classes, just for Tassi said he is hoping to 
“politicians of Japan go to this aware of past events. 
german work force, Tassi 
continue his work with the 
the refugees, and 
research he did over spring shrine, giving a certain im-“They have to acknowledge said. 

you don’t have to 

break by creating a website do not truly regret their past “There is no compromise on pression to koreans that they the correct history,” lee said. 
“a lot of refugees go [to 

be just Syrian, as that will allow grassroots or-wrongs against the people in the that.” 
vocational schools] to learn 

long as you’re an ganizations across germany 
to become blacksmiths be-
region.” 
cause the jobs that germany 
to grow, connect with and 
asylum-seeker.” 

Japanese-korean relations Contact Jenna Wilson at  
needs a lot are also in the 
inspire each other. 
Francesco Tassi 

were previously strained by the jwilso35@nd.edu 
lower-wage sector, which is 
“so essentially this website 
sophomore 
would be a directory, and at 

the same time, an informa­can really custom fit to in-tion portal, but also with a tegrate refugees on a com-crowdfunding option and a munity level,” he said. “you donation option for existing also need that human con-grassroots so these grass­nection, which is something roots could get internation­we often don’t think about, al support and the website but it’s really, really impor-could become a place where tant. … That was something if you have an idea to make a i never thought about before grassroots in germany, you going there, but if there’s just go on here, and not only anything that i left with it could you crowdfund it, you was that these grassroots, can get inspiration from oth­there’s a lot of them and it’s ers, you can get support and something that people never really build a community of talk about and it’s some-grassroots,” he said. thing that you never see in Tassi said the biggest the paper, how much impact thing he took away from this and how much power these trip was the impact of seeing grassroots have, really, to this situation firsthand as turn something as negative opposed to learning about it as a refugee crisis into a so-from a news outlet. lution both for germany and “Just going there and see-these people.” ing for yourself, i think 
lembo said germany is a that’s the most important “true revolutionary” in ad-thing,” he said. “we often mitting refugees. don’t do that just because of 
“after speaking with a media, just because of how german economist and sev-we feel like we’re totally con­eral organizers of ngos and nected and it’s super easy to non-profits in munich, it get news, but going actually is safe to say that germany there is completely differ-needs refugees,” he said in ent, and i recommend it for an email. “The refugees are anyone.” a great chance for cultural integration and for a boost Contact Courtney Becker at in the german economy, and cbecker3@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Parking 
conTinued from page 1 
vetted by representatives of all of the key campus stakeholders, to ensure that multiple viewpoints 
and  considerations  are taken  
into account.”  
according  to  the  email,  the  

committee met for the first time as a larger group in february, af­ter increasing pressure from the community to reform the cur­rent parking system. 
“The university had a smaller parking committee that would meet a few times a year to con­sider changes to parking lots, the on-campus shuttle system, and game day parking. it also had undergraduate and gradu­ate student, faculty and staff rep­resentation, but it was a smaller committee with a proportional scope of influence,” affleck­graves said. 
affleck-graves said he antici­pates the new, larger committee will give him their final propos­als by the end of the summer. 
“i asked them to consider the following components of cam­pus parking in particular: The reserved parking pilot program for faculty and staff, the campus shuttle system, ground parking and a parking garage,” affleck­graves said. “i also asked the committee to balance the en­vironmental, social, econom­ic and aesthetic impact of its recommendations.” 
The committee has created an online form for concerned par­ties to submit feedback on the parking situation situation, ac­cording to the email. 
“when considering each of these separately or in combi­nation, the committee is also considering costs, locations and routes for implementation, as well as all of the varied constitu­ent groups that utilize parking services, including faculty, staff, students and visitors,” a state­ment from the new website said. 
“The committee welcomes your feedback to help form and recommend constructive and implementable solutions to parking on campus,” affleck­graves said. 
according to a committee roster on the website, the group includes faculty from all of the colleges, as well as two repre­sentatives from student govern­ment, who will change april 1 when student government turns over. 
“i know that it will be difficult to find a solution to parking that satisfies everyone, however i hope that you take this opportu­nity to offer feedback to the park­ing committee and help to craft a viable plan that will be equitable and addresses the overall needs of all,” affleck-graves said. 
Editor’s Note: News Editor Katie Galioto contributed to this report. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
China 
conTinued from page 1 
one of the recommendations outlined in this proposal stated “the university provide a forum for continuing campus participa­tion and feedback, including the establishment of a student subcom­mittee to the worker participation committee.” skyler hughes, se­nior and representative for the progressive student alliance in swpc, said this committee was officially formed by the end of december and by January all the involved parties had come together. 
“in the original recommenda­tion from John affleck-graves … we consider it part of our mission to make sure that the student body stays informed on the issue and that we provide forums for the stu­dents at the university to give feed­back to us,” hughes said. 
hughes said there are cur­rently 15 members of the student subcommittee and three of these 
paid adverTisemenT 


members then sit in on the full worker participation committee. 
“our main goal is to make sure there’s a strong student voice on the issue and that we gather views of the notre dame student body as best as we can and represent those to the committee,” hughes said. 
swpc’s facebook page describes the group as “the student commit­tee advising notre dame’s worker participation committee on the changes to the factory licensing pol­icy in china and other countries.” 
“This is one of the first times that the university has given students such a significant voice on a major change in university policy and be­cause of that it’s our responsibility as students to really take advantage of this opportunity to show that we as students are capable of helping out with university policy and should be consulted in the future on uni­versity matters,” hughes said. 
madeline inglis, senior and member of swpc said in an email that the student subcommittee provides the perfect opportunity for students and administrators to collaborate on university matters. 
“students should get involved with the swpc because it’s one of the only ways on campus to inter­act directly with the administra­tion and get student voices heard on such a high level,” inglis said. “it also gives interested students fur­ther insight into this crucial issue, which has implications for both corporate social responsibility and catholic social Teaching.” 
inglis said one of the main goals of the committee is to make sure full worker participation in the form of unions is present in all fac­tories in which notre dame licens­ees manufacture goods. 
“The initial emphasis was in china because while china has one state-run union, it does not have the diversity of choice other countries offer, and so the original wpc decided to end manufactur­ing in china,” inglis said. “in addi­tion to revisiting manufacturing in china through the pilot program, the wpc and the swpc are also ex­amining the extent to which work­er participation exists in countries which allow unionization in name but potentially not in practice, such as el salvador, guatemala, india and bangladesh.” 
inglis said she hopes the swpc sets a precedent for future student groups to become involved in ad­ministrative decisions. 
“i’ve been really involved with this issue since the pilot program was announced a little over a year ago,” inglis said. “i think it’s so critical that students are informed about major policy changes the administration is considering and actually have an active voice in whether those changes should go into effect.” 
hughes said his interest in the or­ganization lies in its global effects. 
“The policy in itself is something that could have a real effect on the workers who make notre dame li­censed goods, so this is our change to have a real effect on the world and lives on people that we never meet and we should care about,” hughes said. 
The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Tommy Anderson 
scene writer 

if you have not heard the unfortu­nate news, there is going to be a re­make of the 1984 film “ghostbusters.” The remake will star kate mckinnon, melissa mccarthy and kristen wiig. while i am an avid fan of the original “ghostbusters,” i am pessimistic about the quality of this year’s film, to put it nicely. 
historically, remakes have had a ter­rible track record with matching the original’s ratings. i will stay away from saying that the film will be unsuccess­ful, because the fact alone of a remade 80’s classic will inevitably attract a large audience. Throw in some modern a-list actresses and there is little room for er­ror. That is why director paul feig scored a $150 million budget to work with. however, let’s step back for a minute and approach this philosophically. 
as a cinema fanatic, i want to see 
By NICK LAUREANO 
scene writer 
“And all at once I knew … ” 

do you remember your first time? i sure do. There was music — strings, a xylophone and a harmonium. it was at once too loud and not loud enough, and it dovetailed with splashes of bright color, delivering synesthetic bliss. 
There’s nothing quite like seeing a paul Thomas anderson movie for the first time. watching “punch-drunk love” on an ipad in the back seat of my mom’s car was an experience i knew i would never forget. 
“And bye-bye you stupid [expletive]” 
“punch-drunk love” — anderson’s shortest and sweetest movie — took my breath away. That barry egan (adam sandler) runs a novelty plunger busi­ness is quirky without being twee. The same goes for his real-life inspired plot to acquire a million frequent-flyer miles by purchasing thousands of dollars of pudding. with any luck, his access to free airline tickets will allow him to accompany lena leonard (emily watson), the woman he loves, on her travels around the world for business. 
quality movies. a remake of a formerly  picture, regardless of how poorly stan­ wish more of an effort was given to cre­ 
very successful film is a cop-out way of  dard film characteristics such as acting,  ate and foster an original and separate  
producing bad cinema that is a product  editing, visual effects, lighting, etc. turn  vision. but as long as the film industry  
of the studio system. we are talking  out on screen. if you don’t believe me,  keeps making money in this way, dread- 
about an industry here, after all. The  do a google search on some remakes, or  ful remakes are here to stay.  
filmmaking studios are the investors  simply think about some you may have  so take my advice: don’t let the trailer  
that make big-budget movies; thus,  seen. for example, the “herbie: fully  make you pay upwards of $10 to see a  
they are looking for guaranteed profit,  loaded” 2005 remake starring lindsay  calculatedly terrible picture. at least  
which has become a formulaic strategy  lohan was one of the most disappoint­ don’t see it on the opening weekend,  
in the entertainment industry. while a  ing films to hit the silver screen in the  because statistics say you’re going to  
formula for entertainment sounds oxy­ last decade. but with a $50 million  waste your time and money. do us all  
moronic, it’s true that they exist, and  budget, it earned over $66 million, scor­ a favor and wait at least a week to see  
studio executives know them by heart.  ing $16 million for disney. would you  it. read some reviews and then decide.  
you might notice how every comedy  release a 90-minute abominable picture  who knows, maybe after all columbia  
you have seen in the last decade stars a  for $16 million? exactly, and that is why  pictures will get it right and the film will  
very similar cast and follows very simi­ these films are made.  be as inventive and witty as the original.  
lar plot lines, or how the most comedic  There are outliers, of course. new  maybe i’ll love it. but i will not be suck- 
moments are spoiled in the trailer. and  film technology brings about capabili­ ered into seeing it the opening weekend,  
there’s a reason why kevin hart and will  ties that were previously unfathomable.  regardless of how many instagram ads  
ferrell show up in trailers every time you  regardless of your opinion on last year’s  remind me to do so.  
go to the movies: the studios are trying  “mad max,” think about how beautiful  
to sell the movie to you. so i’m not say- it looked. with the same director as the  Contact Tommy Anderson at  
ing this year’s “ghostbusters” will be  original, released 36 years later, there is  tander18@nd.edu 
unsuccessful, because it will most likely  a persistent cinematic vision that lived      The views expressed in this column are  
make its budget back and then some. To  through the decades. The potential to  those of the author and not necessarily  
the studios, this will be a “successful”  create quality remakes is there — i just  those of The Observer.  

fittingly, this off-kilter story is pre­sented as an ethereal vision: images are overexposed, yet punctuated with splashes of bright color like barry’s blue suit and lena’s red dress, and the ever-present musical score typically vies with the overlapping dialogue for your attention. anderson nods to a rich tradition of Technicolor clas­sics, french new wave movies like “a woman is a woman,” and the work of new hollywood directors like robert altman, all in the name of distorting our sensory experience. 
The film’s charms extend beyond both its premise and its surface. The scene in which the troubled barry asks his dentist brother-in-law for help, con­fessing that he doesn’t like himself, showcases anderson’s talent as a writer and sandler’s talent as an actor. you’re not sure whether to laugh at barry’s fundamental misunderstanding of the title “doctor” as it’s applied to den­tists, or cry at his aching vulnerability. This is another way of saying “punch­drunk love” captures the complexities of true humanity. 
These dark moments are balanced by scenes of whimsical humor. barry paces about a grocery store in search of the cheapest foodstuff that can earn him frequent-flyer miles. “what am i looking for?” he whispers, not to him­self, but to the aisles and shelves. “Talk to me.” he stops. There it is. “pudding.” of course. 
watching this lovely amalgam of styles, moods and emotions is like talking to a cute girl at a party — ev­erything you do, say or feel is accom­panied by the skeptical voice of your conscience. does she think i’m funny? smart? can she tell i’m trying too hard? Just as barry torments himself over the self-perceived stupidity of saying “bye­bye” to lena at the end of the their first date, you start to wonder if you’re hav­ing a sane reaction to “punch-drunk love.” is it okay to like an adam sandler movie this much? what will my friends think? will they think i’m dumb? will they think i’m trying too hard to be contrarian? barry’s insecurities — so wonderfully rendered by the combina­tion of sandler’s superb acting, robert elswit’s kubrickian photography and Jon brion’s melancholic score — spark our own. 

“Could you just let me redeem the mileage?” 
There’s a sincerity and innocence to barry that makes him impossible to resist, obsessive-compulsive tenden­cies and all. despite the mistakes barry made — destroying the restaurant bath­room, leaving lena at the hospital alone 
— lena could never have rejected this plea. Their final embrace is an affirma­tion of that obscure beatles song about love. it also echoes the iconic final line of the film “some like it hot.” 
“punch-drunk love” is about the futility of worrying about saying “bye­bye” or trying too hard to impress a girl. These manifestations of insecurity — along with those that come with deeply enjoying an adam sandler movie — are silly. no one except your insecure self cares if you say something dumb like “bye-bye” or love a movie starring a clown like sandler, because everyone else knows that nobody’s perfect, and all you need is love. “punch-drunk love” knows this. so does lena. and the proof, as they say, is in the pudding. 
Contact Nick Laureano at                       nlaurean@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Moments we miss every day 
Victoria Llorens 
sports writer 

have you ever tried going without your phone for a day or two? it’s actually rather freeing. everyday the urge to check for notifications buzzes at the back of our minds until we finally give in. we take our phones everywhere and check them constantly to the point where we forget that we are surrounded by other people we can actually open our mouth and talk to. look up people. my parents have all these stories about random people they met while in a grocery store line, sitting in the doctor’s office or even standing in line at disneyland, people that they have learned great lessons from and remember all these years later. if we always have our noses in our phones whenever we are in an awkward place, we miss out on the stories we might happen upon from those around us. 
now, understand that i’m not trying to be self-righteous. you see, if i had not lost my cell phone going on eight weeks ago now i would be right there with the rest of you. for the past two years around march i have lost my phone, and the experience always makes me look up and realize how much time i waste and how much i miss when i do have a phone. no, i have not turned into a hermit. i can still imessage people on my computer, but yes i have felt more removed and maybe that’s really good thing. 
over spring break, i spent a week do­ing an appalachia seminar through the center for social concerns, and there my group of ten built relationships with each other and the people of the region and developed an appreciation of the simplic­ity of their lifestyle. rarely was anyone’s phone out, instead we read books, played games, sang, laughed and loved a lot. it’s so much easier to strengthen relationships with people right in front of our faces when we aren’t constantly checking for a text or watching videos of how much fun someone else might be happening. 
i’m not knocking cell phones altogether and obviously i recognize what an asset they can be to retaining our relationships across distances and making plans, but when they hinder new relationships from strengthening, or starting altogether, we do have a problem. 
so try it. leave your phone in your dorm for a day. or, if that is too extreme, stand in line waiting for food, sit in your desk waiting for class to start or go from one whole class to another without pulling your phone out once. focus on what you are doing and focus on what you can get out of life from those around you by look­ing up and not down. 
Contact Victoria Llorens at  vllorens@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 
if i could force all politicians to never utter one phrase of my choosing again, it would be “common sense.” it’s everywhere. “common sense” gun control from bernie sanders, “common sense” immigration bans from donald Trump and “common sense” health insurance from Ted cruz. The phrase has saturated political dis­course, and i’m sick of it. 
The first reason i’d like to annihilate this stupid phrase is that gives politicians an excuse for lazy argument. all a politician has to do is tack the phrase “common sense” onto whatever poorly planned proposal they’re hawk­ing and it instantly becomes unassailable. after all, what right-minded rhetorician would argue against common sense? The argument then becomes tantamount to proof by vigorous hand waving. 
moreover, common sense is the go-to for any second-rate populist who wants to pander to low-information voters with plain-folks propagandizing. The use of “com­mon sense” implies that the ideas of those who have not studied an issue are on par with, or even superior to, those of the men and women who have made it their life’s work. read the comments on any article about the supreme court nomination and you’re sure to find many loud voices that know what “makes sense.” would it sur­prise you to learn two-thirds of americans can’t name a single justice? 
i can’t really blame disaffected citizens for rallying to common sense. humans as a rule tend to massively over­estimate their competence in fields beyond their experi­ence. The so-called “dunning-kruger effect” means that humans not only remain blissfully unaware of their own ability, but also cannot detect competence in those who are actually skilled. This leaves most people with skepti­cism towards claims of expertise. canny politicians wise­ly feign that same skepticism, loudly singing the praises of “common sense.” heaven forbid that the people run­ning the most powerful country in the world would try to appear smarter than average. 

let’s take a moment now to think about what common sense really means. as a concept, common sense reason­ing is distinct from other modes of logic in that it func­tions at a very basic level that is “common” to all people involved and allows them to reach a decision quickly. in other words, common sense is the antithesis of critical thought. is that really an ideology we want our govern­ment basing its decisions around? 
when i was younger and dumber, i believed that heavi­er objects fell faster than lighter ones. i held firm to this belief over my teacher’s objections and science-museum demonstrations. after all, it was common sense. even galileo’s famous a priori proof wasn’t enough to convince me; it was only when i wrote out the newton’s second-law balance and saw the mass variable cancel out that i un­derstood. a short while later, i viewed the famous footage of apollo 15 commander david scott dropping a ham­mer and a feather on the moon, and my faith in common sense was forever shattered. 
science abounds with such counterintuitive results. it’s impossible to travel faster than the speed of light. a boat made of solid steel can float in water. freeze water and it expands. even our most fundamental beliefs once ran counter to common sense. look outside right now. what evidence do you have, solely from your eyes, that the earth is round? absent satellite imagery or clever greek trigonometry, all evidence at first glance suggests a flat earth. it is only when we look deeper that we see that common sense is wrong, as it so often is. 
if politicians are looking for a snappy phrase to stir up support for their legislation, i suggest, “The experts have spoken.” it’s short, it gets the point across and it empha­sizes the value of knowledge and experience over super­ficial reasoning. it might not be perfect, but anything is better than what we have now. i invite the reader to join me in my quest to get rid of “common sense” for good. 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes  discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

leave the gaggle alone 
i am a dog person, a dog person through and through. i am also from berkeley, california. i was born there and even stayed as an undergrad. berkeley is an interesting place where people are always ready to unleash a barrage of hashtags and organized protests over the latest and greatest social justice warrior cause. due to spending my undergrad years in berkeley and never experienc­ing a real winter, this month has been my first exposure to canada goose jackets. my first impulse when i saw a fellow student wearing a canada goose jacket was to step back and wait for a peTa protestor to start throwing red paint, but then i realized i wasn’t in berkeley anymore. 
canada goose, of course, uses fur from coyotes to add a little stylish trim to the hoods of their jackets. but i am not here to pass judgment or condemn those wear­ing them; it’s not their fault. i am here, however, to pass judgment on cat people. because no dog person could ever look at the images of a coyotes struggling in leg traps for hours and days on end and then purchase a canada goose jacket. so to everyone on campus with a canada goose jacket, i am sorry your crazy cat lady aunt bought you that jacket for christmas and is forcing you to wear it. 

and to those that might assume i am just a granola-eating, hippie from berkeley — you are wrong. i am the proud nephew of my uncle sam and simply doing my pa­triotic duty to rid this beautiful campus from an invasion of trendy, overpriced canadian coats. 
Cormac Craigie 

master of science in management class of 2016 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Political correctness? No, politeness 
Neil Joseph 
viewpoint columnist 

The campaign for the 2016 presidential election has been defined by candidates on both sides criti­cizing facets of american society that we see today. The disintegration of family values, the social lib­eralism (or conservatism) of many americans, the inability to have civilized dialogue, the list goes on and on. one of the biggest problems that many can­didates (specifically republicans) have pointed out is the idea of “political correctness” that supposedly permeates throughout every interaction americans have. numerous republican candidates have railed against it, calling it an assault on the idea of free speech, our country’s ideals and the ability of all people to speak their minds freely. 
To be honest, the term “political correctness” has been thrown around quite loosely by candidates. it seems as if when they disagree with the way a situ­ation has been handled, they rail against it as being a result of a politically correct society. ben carson defended waterboarding as not giving into political correctness in war. Ted cruz said that political cor­rectness contributed to the terror attacks in 2015. donald Trump railed against it in defending his pro­posal to kill the families of terrorists. so is political correctness really dismantling our country? 
for full disclosure, i wrote an article earlier this year defending the idea of free speech, regardless of the harm it may inflict on people. i’m a firm be­liever that people should be allowed to say what they think in our country; it’s what makes america great. during this election season, however, the idea of political correctness has been used far too broadly and improperly. becoming politically incor­rect has become the norm, but that’s turned into something else. it’s reduced the civility of discourse in our country, changed the entire nature of political debate and made our leaders look significantly less than what they should be. 
in a speech during the dying days of his campaign, marco rubio said, “we have to get rid of this idea that just being polite is being politically correct.” it seemed as if marco realized what had been infect­ing the republican party for much of this election cycle. so many of the candidates were eager to break through the barriers of political correctness that they were doing other things that were unfit for peo­ple who are supposed to be leaders of our country. all of the republican candidates were pulled into the dirt by slinging insults, calling names and mak­ing jokes about other candidates. 
The question is not about whether or not political incorrectness should be allowed. it surely should be, as disallowing it undermines one of the very free­doms that all people in the world deserve to have. but that doesn’t mean that political correctness is wrong at its core. The idea of political correctness isn’t supposed to be used to muzzle every opinion that any person has. at its base, political correctness is an extreme form of politeness. yes, it may be dif­ficult and seem unnecessary to watch what you say out of fear of offending someone. but trying to be politically correct means that a person is conscious of another’s background, feelings and emotions. might that be sappy? sure. do you have to try to be politically correct all the time? absolutely not. but being politically correct doesn’t make you weak. it makes you polite, civil and conscious of other people. 

political correctness can have its problems. it can cause people to refrain from speaking their minds, restraining their viewpoints and being afraid of speaking. and politics doesn’t need that. politicians should be speaking their minds so that citizens can truly understand what they believe. but politi­cians shouldn’t throw it entirely out of the window. our leaders need to be able to speak their minds, but they also need to be polite. That’s the only time politics works. “combating political correctness” shouldn’t be what politicians hide behind in order to say offensive things. because at its core, that’s not being politically incorrect; it’s being impolite. and america could always use more politeness. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He welcomes all thoughts and suggestions and can be reached at  njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

catholic social Teaching and laetare honorees 
in a letter published in The observer on march 18 entitled, “objections to the laetare medal decision,” several students criticized the university and its ad­ministrators, specifically fr. Jenkins, for their deci­sion to award the laetare medal to vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner. The authors of the aforementioned article objected heavily to biden’s reception of the award, with little to no evaluation of boehner’s right to the same honor. The letter states that “giving the award to speaker boehner at the same time [it is given to biden] does not alleviate the scandal committed by the university,” suggesting boehner deserves the award. 
The letter focuses on biden’s stance on two conten­tious issues: same-sex marriage and abortion. The authors are correct in one sense: biden’s views on both issues run contrary to church teachings. This is irrefutable. however, the authors mysteriously ne­glect to mention boehner’s own political positions, including both their practical implications, and con­sistencies with church doctrine. yes, boehner’s views on same-sex marriage and abortion align with those of the church. despite this, his political positions regarding immigration, environmental issues and capital punishment are lacking in the face of catholic social Teaching (csT). 
on the issue of immigration, csT maintains that individuals have the right to “migrate to sustain their lives and the lives of their families.” csT also calls on countries to “regulate their borders with both justice and mercy.” on any given day, roughly 30,000 illegal immigrants face detention in the united states with the threat of deportation and separation from their families. in 2013, boehner infamously refused to hold a house vote on a bipartisan comprehensive immi­gration reform bill — despite it having enough votes to pass — in an effort to appease his far-right col­leagues. The bill would have provided a path to citi­zenship and deportation relief for productive workers and children. additionally, house republicans under boehner’s leadership have approved bills that would terminate the deferred action childhood arrivals (daca) program, effectively eliminating deportation relief for over 500,000 young immigrants. These are just a few examples of boehner’s failure to live out his catholic faith by acting compassionately toward those who have “migrated to sustain their lives.” 
The church’s stance on environmental issues has always been made crystal clear. pope francis’ 2015 encyclical, “laudato si’,” addresses climate change, calling global warming the product of “great con­centration of greenhouse gases released mainly as a result of human activity.” in his final encyclical, “caritas in veritate,” pope benedict notes that “the protection of the environment, of resources and of the climate obliges all international leaders to act justly and to show a readiness to work in good faith.” despite these papal addresses, boehner voted against both the enforcement of co2 pollution limits and tax credits for investors in renewable energy. in 2009, boehner wavered in acknowledging human contri­bution to global warming, stating that the “idea that carbon dioxide is a carcinogen that is harmful to our environment is almost comical.” 
finally, both boehner and biden have actively sup­ported the death penalty. boehner, by voting “no” on a bill that would have changed death penalty sen­tences to life imprisonment and by voting to suspend the rights of habeas corpus in death penalty appeals cases. These positions blatantly ignore the church’s stance on the right to life — a concept the previous viewpoint’s authors argue so passionately for. 

both the assessment and challenge of the worthi­ness of laetare medal recipients is certainly impor­tant. after all, the university touts it as “the oldest and most prestigious award for american catholics.” however, in failing to equally examine both recipients of the award, the issue is placed under a staunchly partisan lens, only giving a greater voice to fr. Jenkins’ warning that those “who disagree often will vilify, attack, demean the opposition and [thereby] cannot work with the opposition,” which causes an “impasse of acrimony of intransigence” that “doesn’t serve society.” while “attack” and “demean” are perhaps strong words to describe the previous view­point’s criticisms of biden, their critiques undoubt­edly fall the hardest on the political left’s nominee and ignore the right’s, despite the numerous dispari­ties between both awardees’ stances and those of the catholic church. such obvious partisan bias leads to an unfair assessment of the issue and fails to contrib­ute any constructive commentary regarding how the university should award the laetare medal. 
performing thorough reviews of the honorees is an important exercise. however, it is unproductive to do so when one maintains a preference for certain ideol­ogies and issues.  we do not wish to endorse or refute either awardees’ worthiness to receive this honor, but simply calls on dissenters of the university’s decision to acknowledge the importance of all catholic social Teachings, not simply those they believe are the most important. 
Jake Maginn 
sophomore 
Micaela Powers 
sophomore 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 


Happy Birthday: finish what you start. consider your alternatives and figure out your best plan of attack to reach your chosen destination. make a point to get along with your peers and anyone who can boost your chances of getting ahead. an opportunity to learn something new, expand your awareness or update your appearance should be put into play. your numbers are 1, 7, 11, 28, 34, 42, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): someone will confuse you with his or her actions. stay grounded and look at every possibility before you make an assumption. it’s better to be safe than sorry. focus on personal progress. make your health a priority. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): spend time with the people who make you laugh. love is on the rise and will lead to a better personal situation. initiate positive changes by cutting costs and lowering stress. Join forces with someone you respect. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): make upgrades to improve your work or personal life. constant change can get tiring, but it will also allow you to obtain a more diverse picture of the possibilities that exist. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you will receive if you give. offer suggestions to people who share your concerns, and let your creativity shine through when dealing with domestic situations. romance is encouraged and will have a positive impact on your personal life. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): if you feel restless, make a change that will spark your interest and allow you to show off your talents. make your pursuits fun and you will create a vessel for others to contribute to. let your charisma take over. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): express your feelings and your personal plans. you need to find out where you stand so that you can make a move. recognize what is best for you. let go of negativity and make a leap toward positive alternatives. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let excessive spending lead to your financial demise. determine what you really need and what you don’t. make subtle changes that will set you up for a brighter future. convenience and comfort should be your objectives. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): speak up and protect your interests. show emotion and let others know exactly where they stand. offer incentives, but make it clear that nothing you offer will be free. love will motivate you to reach a lifelong goal. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you become annoyed easily and may irritate others as well. Think before you share your thoughts and don’t believe everything you hear. concentrate on what you can do to improve your surroundings and your health. don’t overindulge. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): check out an unusual opportunity. you will have a chance to invest in something that intrigues you, but consider the consequences first. Joint ventures will not allow you to control the outcome. romance will improve your personal situation.  


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): make changes that will affect your income and your vocational direction. be true to yourself and follow the path that you feel can bring you the greatest satisfaction and highest return. dig in and focus on your success and future expansion. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): partnerships should be your priority. whether dealing with someone personally or professionally, check out what you both have to offer and how you can fine-tune your relationship to achieve the most. romance is highlighted. 


Birthday Baby: you are unique, intuitive and thorough. you are cheerful and resourceful. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff knurek 



make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
p.o. box 779 
notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
address 

form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

No surprise as Simmons goes pro 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
in the least surprising news imaginable, ben simmons has declared for the nba draft. 
The 6-foot-10-inch freak ath­lete averaged nearly 20 points, 12 rebounds and 5 assists per game and earned comparisons to lebron James and magic Johnson. it’s not hard to see why he’s a strong contender for the first overall pick in this year’s draft. 
but simmons’ biggest ac­complishment hasn’t been how he has played. leading lsu to a hardly-formidable 19-14 record, ending with a limp defeat to Texas a&m, hardly makes him a great of college basketball. even if the backlash against simmons did begin to get just as out-of­control as the hype, there’s no way he was the best player in the nation. 
what simmons did achieve, though, was creating the big­gest mockery of the nba’s ludicrous one-and-done rule imaginable. since the league decided in 2005 that players cannot go directly from high school to the pros but instead must spend one year out, col­lege players with obvious nba potential have made little se­cret of their desires to put in just one year with their team before leaving. 
simmons did not need a year at lsu to develop. whatever part of his game still needs work, most notably his jump shot, could be remedied far better in the pros than on this lsu team. basketball isn’t football either. simmons isn’t going to be facing a greater injury risk by playing against grown men, many of whom are already behind him athletical­ly. from a purely nba-based perspective, there’s not really a good reason why simmons should have had to spend a year at lsu. 
from a college-sports per­spective, the idea becomes even more bizarre. with just one year in college, what did you expect simmons to do? what does he have to gain by getting a 4.0 for the first quar­ter of a degree he’ll never need. when you have a test coming up, thinking of the worst case scenario if you don’t study is one way to remind yourself the need to work hard. for most students, it’s failing out of school. for most student athletes, there’s the risk of academic ineligibility from their sport, too. but as a bas­ketball player who’ll be in the nba a year later, simmons only needed to hit the low first-semester targets and coast for his second. 
not only is ignoring the “student” part of the “student­athlete” designation a pos­sible strategy for players like simmons, they’d practically be fools not to do it. you don’t need to spend four years in college to see that learning about oceanography — a class simmons said he struggled with — is not going to help his career. his career is in basket­ball — there is no doubt about that. and even if he doesn’t turn into the transcendent pro many expect, he’s going to make a lot more money before he turns 25 than the greatest oceanographers will make in their lifetimes. i struggle to bring myself to study despite the fact that nba scouts have shown little interest in me. 
if i were in simmons’ posi­tion, i can categorically say i would put in no more effort in the classroom than he did. 
so what did simmons have to lose? eligibility for the wooden award? he wasn’t going to win for on-the-court reasons anyway, and he could still easily carve out an nba career that makes him forget about any college awards. The respect of scouts who wanted to see his work ethic? surely there has to be a better way of judging that — one that actually relates a bit more to basketball. 
if a player is ready, he’s ready. and plenty of players have been ready. has that extra year in college really helped players mature as people? has it helped them develop all that much as basketball players? college will always be there for the players who can use it, but for the ben simmonses of the world, it offers nothing. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu
 The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


MEN’S TENNIS | nd 5, miami 2; nd 5, duke 2 

irish pick up pair of wins against acc rivals 
By JOE EVERETT 
sports writer 
notre dame wrapped up an undefeated weekend at home on sunday, defeating acc rival miami by a score of 5-2, while also securing a victory over 
duke on  friday by the  same  
score.  
The  irish (10-8, 4-2  acc)  

bounced back from their 7-0 loss at the hands of no. 10 wake forest the previous weekend, playing against quality acc competition. for irish head coach ryan sachire, the abil­ity of his team to bounce back from the losses to wake forest and clemson was the thing that impressed him most. 
“i thought we did a great job of responding from a tough weekend beforehand,” sachire said. “guys came to practice ready to get better — i thought Tuesday was one of the best practices of the year”. 
on friday against the blue devils (8-9, 2-3 acc), the irish snapped their two-game slide, starting the match strong by picking up two doubles point through 6-3 wins on courts 2 and 3. in the singles portion of the match, freshman grayson broadus, senior Quentin monaghan, junior eddy covalschi, and senior kenneth sabacinski each clinched a point for the irish in their re­spective matches. sachire said the ability of his players to win the critical points within their matches was the key to their success — at times a problem area for the irish this season. 

“i thought we responded well when our opponents made a run,” sachire said. “in matches like that it the difference of­tentimes comes down to a few key points, and i thought our guys did a good job and kept battling”. 
against miami (7-7, 2-2 acc), the irish had to rally after a poor start, as they dropped the doubles point to the hurricanes 
— usually a major setback to a team’s chances of winning the match. The irish fought back in singles, however, drawing even with a victory by monaghan on court 1, and then reeling off victories on the next four courts, courtesy of covalschi, junior Josh hagar, senior alex lawson, and broadus, who clinched the irish win on court 5 with a clutch rally in the tie­breaker against miami sopho­more kevin bondar. it was the first match the irish have won this year after losing the dou­bles point, and sachire said he is starting to see a stronger identity within the team. 
“we’re getting healthier, and so we have a lot more continu­ity in the lineup,” sachire said. “guys are getting more confi­dent and have a lot more clarity in their roles on the team”. 
next up for the irish is a date with the no. 1 ranked men’s team in the nation: virginia. The irish will hit the road and play the cavaliers (14-2, 4-0 acc) this friday, followed by a match at georgia Tech this sunday. for sachire, this road trip provides the irish with a couple of chances to get a qual­ity road win and improve their standings within the acc. 
“virginia has arguably been the top program in the coun­try over the past several years, so this gives us a great oppor­tunity at a great win,” sachire said. “we split our matches with georgia Tech last year, and they’re a really good team so that’s gonna be a tough match as well. it’s a great challenge this weekend and we’re looking forward to it”. 
notre dame and virginia are set to face-off at 3 p.m. on friday. 
Contact Joe Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame looks to extend win streak 
Observer Staff Report 
after crushing bowling green 10-0 on march 17, no. 19 notre dame looks to build on its 18­game winning streak this week as the irish take on a pair of ri­vals from the great lakes state. 
Tuesday evening, the irish (22-3, 3-0 acc) face off against eastern michigan at melissa cook stadium. Then, on wednesday, the irish will turn their attention to michigan state. 
The irish are not strangers to extended winning streaks. last year, notre dame won 24 consecutive games before fall­ing to north carolina in the last conference series of the regular season. 
during this year’s winning streak, the irish have been fir­ing on all cylinders. The irish are batting .356 as a team this season, while holding their op­ponents to an average of .221. 
leading the way for the irish offensively are freshman third baseman melissa rochford and junior outfielder karley wester. rochford leads the team in bat­ting average (.471), rbis (29) and walks (12) and was named the acc player of the week last week. The only other notre dame freshman to earn that honor in team history is wester. 

wester, meanwhile, leads the team in hits, with 46, and runs, with 33. wester also leads the team with 22 stolen bases on 24 attempts. wester’s offensive success comes as no surprise, however. The california na­tive led the acc in hits both her freshman and sophomore seasons and is the youngest irish player to reach 200 career hits, a mark she accomplished march 6 against stony brook. rochford and wester are cur­rently ranked 23rd and 27th in the nation in batting average, respectively. 
on the mound, notre dame boasts two pitchers with sev­en wins or more. senior allie rhodes has a 10-2 record on the year and junior rachel nasland is not far behind with an un­defeated record of 7-0. rhodes, nasland and sophomore katie beriont all enter Tuesday’s game with eras at 2.50 or lower. 
The eagles (9-14, 0-0 mac) enter Tuesday’s game looking to right the ship after a three-game losing streak before they enter conference play over the weekend. eastern michigan has played the irish 19 times before Tuesday’s contest, with notre dame holding a 17-2 series ad­vantage. a victory for the eagles would mark their first win against the irish since 2007 and their first win against a ranked opponent since 2009. 
senior first baseman abi clark leads the eagles’ offense, batting .404 and tallying 23 hits thus far this season. Junior out­fielder michelle kriegshauser has also been a contributor for eastern michigan this year and leads the team with 16 rbis. 
The eagles have only fielded three pitchers so far this sea­son with freshman nicolle miranda leading the team with a 4-8 record in 12 starts. To complement the california na­tive, sophomore Trisha Trujillo and junior abbie minsker have each pitched over 30 innings and hold eras of 7.77 and 7.00 respectively. 
Tuesday’s game against eastern michigan will begin at 5 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. 


Carson 
conTinued from page 12 
rip their hearts out at the end of the night? 
Throw aside all the declara­tions of “rivalries never end,” and do the same with the moral high horses. sure, it’s an intricate rivalry with tons of underlying complexities — there’s no denying that. but please, stop pretending you’re better than each other. 
bring it back. it doesn’t mat­ter if it’s hockey, basketball or, yes, football. These two need to play. every year. in every sport. 
ask anyone who’s a college sports fan why they prefer college football or basketball to their professional counter­parts. hint: it has nothing to do with the quality of play. 
you see, the nfl and nba are great, but outside of a few moments every season, the unbridled passion you see just isn’t matched. it’s the one aspect in which the col­lege game consistently beats its professional, franchised counterparts. 
so when we have these great arenas and these great games that incite such incredible pas­sion, why are we turning them away? 
we’ve seen it down south, where Texas and Texas a&m stubbornly refuse to play on the gridiron, in the heartland with kansas and missouri and, yes, right here with notre dame and michigan. 
They’re two fanbases that quite simply hate each other. ask a “michigan man” to de­scribe notre dame, and he’ll tell you the same thing an irish fan would about him: The oth­er side is a bunch of pompous idiots. it’s an almost entirely ir­rational hatred of another man solely because of the college he roots for. 
and it’s fantastic. 
so i have one request of director of athletics Jack swarbrick: 
get this series back on the schedule. 
i don’t care if you have to pay the buyout to ball state to free up a football game, or if it means forgoing a big-time preseason tournament on the hardwood. 
This game, this series, this passion is worth doing what­ever you can to save it. 
because in a world where the general public becomes more and more apathetic each year toward collegiate sports, we simply can’t afford for rivalries like notre dame’s with michigan to fade into obscurity. 
i don’t want my kids growing up in a world where the color maize isn’t detested in south bend. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Football 
conTinued from page 12 
The big question the irish need to answer is just who that quarterback will be when notre dame takes the field against Texas on sept. 3 in austin, Texas: senior malik Zaire, ju­nior deshone kizer or sopho­more brandon wimbush. 
sanford had an answer to that question monday: there won’t be an answer anytime soon. 
“every single year you should come in and think about rein­venting yourself or that next guy is going to catch you,” sanford said. “or the next guy behind him is going to catch him, and surpass him and get you. we really wanted to make that evident from day one that this is like every quarterback group in the country, and i think it’s shown up.” 
of course, sanford also admitted notre dame’s pre­dicament at the quarterback position is far different from those almost everywhere else across the country. 
“i don’t believe i have,” sanford said when asked if he had ever been in this situation before. “and the thing that’s probably different about it is the fact that all three of them have played in real games. all three of them have had significant reps in practice with the ones or twos, and then they all do have some great physical attributes.” 
still, sanford said he and irish head coach brian kelly want to keep everyone focused on their individual improvement and away from drifting toward the bigger picture looming in the fall. 
“The biggest challenge is just constantly keeping everybody process-oriented,” sanford said. “if we can stay on the pro­cess and really not worry about the big picture — because it’s going to be proven out over the course of time, we’re going to figure out the best way to given our team the best chance to win a championship and that’s what we’re going to do with that group — but we have to individually, me as a coach and coach kelly as the head coach, we have to work with that group about just being focused on that next step. 
“each and every day there’s another door that you have to bust through, and then once you bust through that door hy­pothetically there’s another door waiting for you. you have to bust through that door. so we have to be process-oriented and not worry too much about the big picture.” 
last year, when Zaire and for­mer-irish quarterback everett golson were trading reps with the first team in the spring, Zaire said the coaching staff was tracking how each player performed in different situa­tions. This year, sanford said monday, they’ve “expanded upon” that system, keeping of­fensive intern matt mitchell busy all spring. 
“we’re charting third-down completions, everything that has to do with third downs, red zone, when we get into backed-up situations, two-minute situ­ations,” sanford said. “all those situations really are what sepa­rate the great ones from the guys who are a 10-win quarter­back, and we want to be above and beyond that.” 
Denson excited about run­ning back competition, Williams’ progression 
Quarterback isn’t the only position on the field that resem­bles a three-headed monster, though. running backs, senior Tarean folston and sopho­mores Josh adams and dexter williams, are all viable options out of the backfield, according to irish running backs coach autry denson. 
“right now everybody’s out there taking reps so we don’t 
paid adverTisemenT 



necessarily have a pecking or­der,” denson said. “Just out there playing football, trying to get better.” 
denson bestowed particu­lar praise on williams, who has seen the smallest amount of playing time, but has made large strides already this spring. 
“obviously we know [williams is] special with the ball in his hands, but the next step for any running back is the things you do without the ball in your hands,” denson said. “play-faking, making sure you’re carrying out fakes. make sure you can block. make sure you’re contributing in the pass game via route running. … he’s a year in now, so you’re just starting to see the signs of his athleticism because he’s so much more comfortable and now he’s reacting as opposed to thinking.” 
denson also gave an update on folston, who missed almost all of last year after tearing his acl during the season-opening win over Texas. 
“he looks really good. picked up a blitzing [defensive end] today and really laid into him,” denson said. “Tarean is Tarean. nobody worries about him. he’s a tough kid, and just a re­ally good football player, so he wants to be out there just as much as we want him out there. he’s looking really good.” 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | The observer 

for opposing defenses in the 
M Lax Padanilam 
future.” 
conTinued from page 12 conTinued from page 12 
while the irish offense con­

tinued to tie the game each those last two shots, both of time the cavaliers took the on defense,” allen said of the which were from far out but lead, notre dame’s defense stretch she helped spark. “we were still really hard saves for proved steady throughout weren’t really getting layups or virginia’s goalie,” irish junior the game. doss finished the boxing out on the defensive end, goalie shane doss said. “That first half with nine saves and but we really locked in and got just goes to show how good of ended the day with 14, thanks some stops and got some steals. a shooter he is capable of be-to help from his teammates in Then we got going into transi­ing, and also the confidence front of the net, he said. tion, which is the best part of that he has to make them in “The defense did a great job our team.” big moments like that.” of forcing virginia into tak-while it was her defense that 
leading up to sergio’s late ing harder shots from tough sparked the 15-2 second-half goals, both teams opened the angles, which made my job a run to help seal the game for the contest with long possessions lot easier throughout the day,” irish, allen was locked in from that resulted in low scores. doss said. “we didn’t give the beginning. although the notre dame maintained a 2-0 them anything easy and we irish struggled to put away the lead after a first-period goal by made some key stops in im-hoosiers in the first half, allen senior captain and attack matt portant situations which put scored 18 points in the period, kavanagh, followed by junior our team in a good position to including a stretch of 10 straight midfielder ben pridemore’s win the game.” points capped off by a buzzer-goal in the second. by half-The cavaliers called a time-beating jumper to end the half. with allen’s performance in the taking over what the defense time though, virginia tied the out with 16.8 seconds on the after a one-point, 10-assist first half because it carried the gave us and just reading them.” game, 2-2, with the irish turn-clock following perkovic’s game saturday in notre dame’s irish until the team’s other play-and in the first half, that ing the ball over nine times. game-tying goal just seven win over north carolina a&T, ers were able to close things out meant attacking them with the 
less than half a minute seconds before. The irish held allen was not expected to carry in the second half. same sets of plays until they into the third period, virginia cavaliers in the game’s final the scoring load for the irish “lindsay allen took over made the adjustments to stop it, scored twice to take the lead, seconds, forcing the match coming into this game. but the offense in the first half, which allowed her to take over 4-2. but perkovic helped keep into overtime. This time the when her team needed her most, and then [sophomore forward during her scoring stretch right the offense alive, notching a irish emerged on top, 8-7. she delivered with a season-high brianna Turner] and [graduate before the half. goal off an assist from fresh-“we’ve dug some holes for 22 in addition to seven assists student guard madison cable] “we just noticed that we were man attack ryder garnsey ourselves early on in games and five steals. despite her best finished it up in the second getting the same shots, and just over five minutes into the so that is definitely something efforts to help her team adjust to half,” mcgraw said. “Just great we were pretty successful at third period. kavanagh tied we’re going to need to work on a more aggressive allen, hoosier teamwork.” it,” allen said. “so, we were do-the game, 5-5, with 1:26 left in the future, but the fact that head coach Teri moren said while allen was on the at-ing the same plays until they in the third period, and se-we have come from behind allen made several great plays tack offensively in the first half, stopped it, and that’s what hap­nior captain and attack eddy to push the game to overtime that made her difficult for the she only scored four points in pened. we kept getting the same lubowocki found the net with speaks to the confidence and hoosier defense to handle. the second half. however, that shots — either the free-throw 
2:27 left in the fourth to tie it, resilience of our team in late “anything inside [the 3-point was largely because she only line jumper, a layup for me and 6-6. game situations,” doss said. line] she’s pretty comfortable attempted three shots after the a layup for [brianna Turner]. it 
“coach corrigan talked “we never stopped fighting and able to knock them down, break as she deferred to cable was just reading the defense and about moving the ball around even when things were get-even though she didn’t score the and Turner, who scored 14 each taking what they gave us.” the offensive end faster and ting frustrating for us and it other night,” moren said. “we in the second half. allen said her with the win, the irish attacking the backside of the paid off in the end.” knew that she had a short mid-performance in both halves was punched their ticket to the pro-defense, which makes it hard after two games at home, range game, and then she just simply a product of taking what gram’s seventh-straight sweet for the other team later on notre dame will travel to got hot. she was feeling confi-the hoosier defense gave her. 16 appearance. notre dame in possessions,” doss said. columbus, ohio, to take on ohio dent. … again, it’s a great player “i think it was just the way will next take the court friday “virginia was playing really state. The irish and buckeyes making great plays. she caught defense was playing us today,” when it travels to lexington, well defensively and their are set to meet saturday at 1 fire there and really burned us allen said. “we really worked kentucky, to battle fourth-seed­goalie matt barrett made p.m. on a couple occasions. i thought on getting that free-throw line ed stanford at rupp arena. some really tough saves, but she played a great first half.” jumper and attacking the basket we can still improve as an Contact Kit Loughran at irish head coach muffet and making sure we’re attack-Contact Ben Padanilam at offense and make it harder kloughr1@nd.edu mcgraw said she was pleased ing that transition. so it was just bpadanil@nd.edu 

W Bball 
conTinued from page 12 
by hoosiers junior guard karlee mcbride — the sister of for­mer irish all-american kayla mcbride — on a layup attempt and crashed to the hardwood on her back to silence the formerly raucous purcell pavilion crowd. 
as cable got back to her feet and returned to the huddle, officials determined mcbride’s foul wasn’t flagrant, and play resumed. 
up to that point, cable had just two points. but by the time the game ended a little more than a quarter later, that number had jumped to 16 as the irish rode that momentum to an 87-70 vic­tory to advance to their seventh-consecutive sweet 16. 
“i thought the foul was key,” irish head coach muffet mcgraw said. “when maddie got fouled, the crowd really got into it. i thought she got a little chip on her shoulder, and from that point on, she really wanted the ball. she hit back-to-back 3s shortly after that, and i thought that was the game.” 
cable’s 16 points were just the third-most on the team, with allen pacing the way with 22, along with seven assists and five steals, and sophomore for­ward brianna Turner adding 18 more, plus 10 rebounds and three blocks for a double-double. 
like cable, Turner also surged in the second half, as she closed the second quarter with four points on 2-of-6 shooting, but her teammates frequently found her mismatched in the paint for easy buckets after halftime. 
“i think that she puts a lot of pressure on herself, and she wants to play well every posses­sion,” mcgraw said of Turner. “i think after that first shot it threw her a little bit because she was just a little bit off in the first half. i think she relaxed a little bit in the second half after watching lindsay and madison get some points, she realized that she didn’t have to do it all by herself, even though we were calling her number very frequently. you’d think she had a bad game, but she scored 18 points, 10 rebounds, three blocks, three assists and one turnover — not a bad day at the office.” 
with Turner and cable not hit­ting their strides until after half­time, the irish relied heavily on allen before the half, who had 18 points at the break, and fresh­man guard marina mabrey, who scored 11 of her 15 points in sec­ond quarter alone. 
while notre dame never trailed past the 6:28 mark of the first quarter, the hoosiers never fell too far away until after the foul on cable, either, and the teams exchanged runs that kept the irish from developing a com­fortable lead. 
notre dame closed the first quarter on a 9-3 run, while indiana had missed all five of its final field goal attempts. 
Then the hoosiers roared back to tie it up at 26 midway through the second quarter before the irish pulled their lead back up to 10 at halftime by hitting all of their final six shots. 
finally, indiana made one last bid by knocking what had been a 13-point deficit down to just two points before the allen steal­ogunbowale layup-allen steal­allen layup-cable foul sequence started to put the game away. 
“They’re a good team, and i think they were playing really hard,” cable said. “They came into the game, and they weren’t really afraid. They made a couple runs, but i think that we finally ended that and went on a run and never looked back.” 
mcbride carried the load for the hoosiers in the first half, connecting on 4-of-5 3-point at­tempts for 12 points at the break, but she managed just five more points after halftime as the irish defense keyed in on guarding her. 
Junior guard alexis gassion also totaled 17 points to co-lead the hoosiers in scoring, and three other players added 10 apiece. after indiana made six 3s in the first half, notre dame didn’t al­low another shot from long-range until one made it through at the final buzzer. 
“it’s important for us to play in a close game; we haven’t had a lot of them,” mcgraw said. “we’ve had plenty of acc games where we were down in the second half. at duke, we were down five in the fourth quarter. we’ve had the chance to be able to come back, and we know what that’s like. we need to work a little bit more on late-game situations. i think the league really prepared us for hav­ing close games.” 
notre dame will next play in the sweet 16 against no. 4 seed stanford, the same team it topped in last year’s sweet 16. Tipoff is at 9 p.m. at rupp arena in lexington, kentucky. 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | nd 87, indiana 70 
Irish surge late, punch ticket to Sweet 16 
ND holds off scrappy IU squad for Sweet 16 berth 
By MARY GREEN 
senior sports writer 
no. 1 seed notre dame had watched a 13-point lead shrink to just two points near the end of the third quarter against ninth-seeded indiana on monday night, and the hoosiers were ready for an upset. 
but lindsay allen wasn’t about to let that happen. 
The junior guard got her hands on an indiana pass in midair and snapped the ball ahead to fresh­man guard arike ogunbowale for a layup, then allen stole the inbounds throw and quickly con­verted it into another two points for the irish. 
The lead was back up to six points, but based on the runs the hoosiers had made throughout the night, it still wasn’t safe. 
but indiana woke the sleeping giant on the next play, and there was no stopping for the irish until the final buzzer. 
graduate student guard madison cable was fouled hard 
see w bball PAGE 11 

Lindsay Allen powers Notre Dame offense to victory 

Ben Padanilam 
associate sports editor 
for a while monday night, top-seeded notre dame found itself in a heavyweight fight with ninth-seeded indiana. 
for roughly three quarters, the two teams traded scoring runs. each time the irish (33-1, 16-0 acc) attempted to pull away from the hoosiers (21-12, 12-6 big Ten) for good, indiana fought its way back into the game. 
with 2:10 left in the third quar­ter and the irish maintaining a narrow 56-54 lead after a 12-1 scoring run by the hoosiers, irish junior guard lindsay allen came up with a steal and found fresh­man guard arike ogunbowale for an easy layup. Then, on the proceeding inbounds pass, allen came away with another steal and scored a layup of her own, beginning a 15-2 run that would finally put the irish well ahead for good. 
“i think we really locked in 
see padanilam PAGE 11 
FOOTBALL 

Players impress offensive coaches 

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor 
mike sanford acknowledged next season’s notre dame squad will have the talent and depth to make another cham­pionship run in the fall when he and the other offensive as­sistant coaches met with the media monday morning fol­lowing practice. 

“if we play championship caliber football at the quar­terback position, we know we can win one,” the co-offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach said. 
see fooTball PAGE 10 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

notre dame, michigan need to embrace tradition 
Alex Carson assistant managing editor Editor’s Note: A version of this story appeared online March 19.  friday with atmospheres that could best be described as lackluster. yeah, a handful of fans from each of the par­ticipating teams were in at­tendance, but at the end of the  in attendance friday night in brooklyn. There’s no doubting that. but when notre dame was introduced, it was the boos from the pro-michigan crowd that drained out the cheers  
brooklyn, n.y. — seriously. how fun was that? after 40 minutes of two ri­vals going back and forth, how could you not want more? i sat through three games  day, they weren’t games fitting of the stage. but friday’s finale — a game that bled into saturday, actu­ally — was one more than be­fitting of it. sure, there were irish fans  from the irish section. as a kid growing up, isn’t friday night your dream? To walk onto a big stage, in front of fans that don’t like you, to see carson PAGE 10  

MEN’S LACROSSE | nd 8, virginia 7 (oT) 

ND squeaks past Virginia in overtime win 
By KIT LOUGHRAN 
sports writer 
Junior midfielder sergio perkovic scored the game-tying goal with 23 seconds left in the fourth period and then netted the game-winning goal 29 sec­onds into overtime to lift notre dame over virginia. 
no. 2 notre dame (5-1, 1-0 acc) opened acc play with an 8-7 win against virginia (3­5, 0-2) on saturday at arlotta stadium. last sunday, no. 1 denver pushed notre dame into overtime, edging the irish, 9-8. notre dame’s second overtime session in one week, though, saw perkovic fire the ball off the pipe and into the net past virginia junior goalie matt barrett less than 30 seconds into the extra time. 
“sergio came up huge on 
see m laX PAGE 11 




