


The observer | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
COMMENTARY 

Season a success regardless of end 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports Writer 
Four conference tourna­ment championships, going back to 2013. Five confer­ence regular season cham­pionships, going back to 2012. Five consecutive Final Fours, going back to 2011. Yet no national title since 2001. 
every year, as the tourna­ment approaches, the same question is asked: What makes this Irish team dif­ferent to all the others? Why is this team the one that will bring notre dame back to the very top? 
This Irish team is defi­nitely different to the team that lost to connecticut last year. but does it look any more likely to overcome the final hurdle? Probably not. 
Anyone looking for ways this team sets itself apart from last year has plenty of starting points. brianna Turner continues to get bet­ter as the season goes on; Lindsay Allen has taken another step up in running the floor; there are seven players who could lead the team in scoring on any night; players have stepped up into bigger roles with confidence; and even more than ever, this looks like a team that fights for abso­lutely everything. 
but Turner’s improvement is because she’s recovering from a shoulder injury, one that could have ended her season and one that kept her back from being even more dominant. Allen has been fantastic, but a pre­season injury to her backup, freshman Ali Patberg, has left the junior as the only real viable option at point guard and ended any hopes of trying Allen in some new looks. The way notre dame has replaced the points provided by Jewell Loyd has been nothing short of exceptional, but there is no team that wouldn’t feel some sort of loss without a player of Loyd’s caliber. The Irish didn’t miss a beat when Taya reimer left the team early on in the sea­son, but it couldn’t have been anything other than a challenge. 
The team has drive, but it takes more than drive to win a championship. It takes talent, and the Irish right now just don’t look more talented than they were a year ago. When Irish head coach muffet mcGraw described her 2015-16 squad as “probably not the most talented team we’ve had in the past five years,” it certainly wasn’t meant as a slight against them, but when you consider all that this team has been through, it’s impressive the Irish have already achieved so much between the regu­lar season and the Acc tournament. 
Think back to nearly four months ago and over 1,100 miles away from south bend, when the Irish faced UcLA in the bahamas. brianna Turner had just injured her shoulder and faced the possibility of surgery that would rule her out for the remainder of the season. Without their star player, the Irish fought through an overtime contest with the bruins, as madison cable guided notre dame to victory. 
Things could have gone another way. one bad bounce and maybe the Irish lose. next up would be a strong ohio state team, which the Irish beat, 75-72, and the connecticut team that was the only team to beat notre dame this sea­son. dePaul and oregon state would present further challenges to the Irish be­fore they even faced their first Acc opponent, with reimer announcing she would leave the team short­ly after the Irish faced the blue demons. 
It’s easy to imagine a ver­sion of this year in which the Irish entering confer­ence play without Turner and with four losses, in­cluding a defeat against Uconn that was more com­prehensive than the 91-81 game they played in reality. 
Irish hopes of a second national title could have been put to a halt by an injury on Thanksgiving in the caribbean. Instead, mcGraw’s team enters the tournament as the third overall seed. This notre dame team might not be the best equipped Irish squad to go all the way, but it’s not out of the question. 
If notre dame ends yet another great season with­out winning it all, you could reflect on this year as an­other disappointment. but with the hurdles the Irish have overcome, the 2015-16 season should be a success no matter what. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the  author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


cable, freshmen provide unexpected boosts for Irish 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Associate sports editor 
coming into the season, notre dame knew it would be without Jewell Loyd, who skipped her senior season to declare for the WnbA draft. 
What it did not expect was to lose one of its top re­cruits, freshman guard Ali Patberg, to a torn AcL prior to the start of the season or to have junior forward Taya reimer leave the team just nine games into the season. depth was becom­ing an immediate concern for the Irish, especially as star sophomore forward brianna Turner faced a potential season-ending shoulder surgery. 
but before long, the of­fense was running like a well-oiled machine, and Turner was back manning the paint on both sides of the court for the Irish. It was as if the concerns had never existed — and perhaps they never had, at least for the players. Graduate student guard madison cable said she thinks the team’s abun­dance of leadership kept them rolling despite the ad­versity they faced early on. 
“I just try to set the best example I can for everyone else on the team,” cable said. “Luckily, there’s a lot of other great leaders on the team. That’s [one] rea­son why we’re so good. It’s not just a one-person thing, everyone plays a role and I think that’s why we’re good.” 
cable has been one of the largest contributors to notre dame’s success this season. After starting just six games last season and finishing as the team’s seventh-leading scorer, cable has stepped into the role of everyday starter this year and thrived. she cur­rently leads the Irish in steals, 3-pointers made and 3-point shooting percent­age, while also being sec­ond on the team in scoring average and rebounds. 
not one to take credit for her success, cable said the team and staff have made the transition into this new role easy for her. 
“I think it’s a really easy transition when you look at who else is on the team,” cable said. “The coaches were really good about it, the players are amazing. It makes playing easy when everyone is very unself­ish, and we just all have the same goal. We just want to win, so it was a good transition.” 
but cable’s teammates believe she’s more than de­serving of the praise. 
“It was huge for madison to come back this sea­son,” junior guard Lindsay Allen said. “she’s always been kind of that player that provided the clutch plays for us, and now she’s the second leading scorer on the team. she provides that boost, and she stills does the little plays like re­bounding, taking charges, getting on the floor, but she’s just that steady player, and we can always count on her to provide whatever we need for the team.” 
The confidence cable’s teammates have in her has allowed the mt. Lebanon, Pennsylvania, native to de­velop that confidence in herself. 
“I just focused on being confident and not being afraid to take more shots and do a little bit more for the team,” cable said. “I play a little bit more this year, so I couldn’t be afraid to do anything.” 
While cable has stepped into a leadership role for the team, she has not been the only player to step up for the Irish when they needed it most. Freshman guards Arike ogunbowale and marina mabrey both have contributed in a way the Irish have only seen once in the last 10 seasons: provid­ing the team with double-digit scoring off the bench. 
ogunbowale and mabrey currently rank third and fourth, respectively, on the team in scoring average. In fact, ogunbowale has led the Irish in scoring in seven games this season, while mabrey has led the way in six, including a career-high 23 against connecticut. both players have shown tenacity and confidence on the court since day one, offering the Irish crucial offensive sparks off the bench, Allen said. 
“coming in as freshman, they’re just fearless,” Allen said. “They’re relentless. They come in the game and they’re looking for their shot. They’re always just being really aggressive on offense off the bench, and that’s been really key for us.” 
While both have been effective as scorers, their styles have contrasted quite a bit. ogunbowale is aggres­sive and creates her own shot, as she leads the team in shots and free throws made. mabrey, meanwhile, is a patient scorer who finds opportunities within the offense, as she ranks sec­ond on the team in 3-point shooting percentage and is fourth in field goal per­centage. Their contrasting styles complement each other well and pose prob­lems for defense as it gives the Irish offense variety when they are in the game, cable said. 
“Arike and marina have both been huge for us this year,” cable said. “They come in and they both play a little bit different, but they’ve both been huge in many games this year. They’re gonna be huge for us in the next tournament games, too, so I’m really looking forward to seeing what they can do.” 
As the season has pro­gressed, each player has settled into her role on the team and enabled the team to thrive, cable said. As the Irish look forward to the tournament, their goal to win remains the same, and they expect to continue to do what they’ve done all year long. 
“everyone knows their role, and everyone plays their role really well,” cable said.“We faced a lot of ad­versity this year, but like I said before, we all had the same goal and we all just want to win, so that’s kind of what we’ve done all year.” 

Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 

PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | The observer 



Nothing but the best 
McGraw adds to legendary résumé by demanding the most from players, coaches and herself 
The others? Tennessee’s that’s the best of both worlds, to totally different from this genera-she congratulates someone after 
By MARY GREEN 

senior sports Writer Pat summitt, connecticut’s be so detail-oriented like she is. tion, so I think she does an amaz-making a big play and even in the Geno Auriemma, duke’s mike That’s been the most challenging ing job of adapting to the different signature heels and outfits she 
The procession starts the same Krzyzewski and north carolina’s part, but I think that’s the part I’ve types of kids she recruits.” sports on the sidelines. way before each and every game at dean smith — legends, all five of learned so much of from her about A big part of getting those players “The best part of playing with Purcell Pavilion. them, to say the least. it. she works so hard, it makes you to go to notre dame rests on Ivey’s her — I really love her outfits. she’s 
before introductions and start-mcGraw joined that club Jan. 3 want to work hard.” shoulders as recruiting coordina-very stylish,” sophomore forward ing lineups, while the players are of this year, when she collected win Ivey and associate coach beth tor, but she said at the end of the brianna Turner said. Then she add-still wearing their warmups and no. 800 against Pittsburgh, and cunningham both played under day, it’s a pitch that really sells itself. ed, almost as a side note: “And she’s taking last-minute shots and fans she enters the ncAA tournament mcGraw — Ivey from 1996 to 2001 “sometimes, I’m like, this is so just such a great coach, of course, are getting settled in their seats, the with that tally now up to 818 and and cunningham, the former beth easy!” Ivey said. “sometimes I lis-a hall-of-fame coach. she’s just ac-video is cued. counting. morgan, from 1993 to 1997 — be-ten to her speeches, and I’m like, complished so much.” 
Images and sounds from notre she’s a member of the Women’s fore returning to south bend to I want to come play for her again. Allen said one of her favorite dame’s biggest moments flash basketball hall of Fame class of coach alongside her. What she’s done is so amazing, and parts of playing under mcGraw has across the screen, proud moments 2011 and the Indiana basketball The two former players are part the University of notre dame just when she’s been able to crack her for the Irish faithful and admoni-hall of Fame class of 2014 and was of a strong coaching tree mcGraw offers student-athletes so much, typically serious demeanor. tions to visiting teams, reminders named a first-time finalist for the has cultivated in her time at notre that, for me, it’s so hard to pass up.” “I think anytime you can make of the five Final Four trips in the last naismith memorial basketball dame, a group that includes cur-but once those players get to her laugh, it’s probably a really fun-five years, of legends of years past — hall of Fame in February. rent head coaches Kevin mcGuff notre dame, it’s up to them to live ny joke because she’s really serious riley, Ivey, diggins, et al. — and, of mcGraw has 12 major national of ohio state, George Washington’s up to mcGraw’s expectations. in practice because it’s business course, of the 2001 championship. coach of the year awards on her Jonathan Tsipis, bill Fennelly “she’s extremely demanding of and we’re trying to get things done, 
Like clockwork, the legions of shelf, having swept all four majors of Iowa state and Penn state’s everybody,” senior guard michaela so any time you can make coach fans inside Purcell hear the back-in two of the past three seasons, coquese Washington, another for-mabrey said. “she tries to get the mcGraw laugh, that’s probably the ground anthem — technically and was most recently announced mer player at notre dame. Added most out of every single one of her highlight of your whole year,” she called “heroes of War,” but more as a finalist for the naismith to that is current Irish associate players, and she’s gonna do what-said. aptly understood as the entrance college coach of the Year Award on head coach carol owens, who has ever she has to to get that.” even when mcGraw maintains song — and look to the screen, Wednesday. been at mcGraw’s side for 16 total Those expectations in how play-that demeanor, there’s something waiting for the time when they rise her head coaching position was seasons. ers conduct themselves in prac-to be found in those moments. to their feet in a standing ovation as the first in notre dame athletics Ivey said she was flattered when tice and games have yielded talk “she does a lot of funny things on she steps out from the tunnel and history to be endowed — yes, even mcGraw called her to ask about re-that might frighten an occasional the bench, just watching her when walks around the perimeter of the before football — when Karen and turning to south bend. freshman.” you’re sitting on the bench, just her court, with her assistants follow-Kevin Keyes, one of mcGraw’s for-“It was an honor, and my kind “I heard a few stories — I don’t reactions and her heel stomps and ing her, step by step, to the home mer point guards and her husband, of livelihood just shifted to being know if we’ll call them horror sto-crouch is funny,” sophomore for-bench. gifted the University with $5 mil-a coach, and I thought that the ries — about coach mcGraw,” ju-ward Kathryn Westbeld said. 
no matter how many All-lion last year. best opportunity I could ever have nior guard Lindsay Allen said with mcGraw might appear to rarely Americans are in her lineup, she’s but numbers and accolades would be to work under her back at a laugh. “but you really have to be fully satisfied with her team’s the one to always receive the loud-alone don’t speak to who mcGraw my alma mater for my first job,” she experience it yourself because she performance — after all, it’s a est, most thunderous applause is. said. knows our personalities, so she’s mindset that’s gotten her to seven right before tipoff, the type of ap-Fearless. demanding. Intense. Ivey added she gained even more different to different people, and Final Fours and four straight con­plause 29 years of fruitful leader-It’s how her players, past and pres-respect for her former coach when she really knows how to get the best ference championships — but ship will bring. ent, describe the Philadelphian. she joined mcGraw’s staff in 2007. out of you and what motivates you, that’s not always the case for her 
make no mistake about it: muffet count them on the long and “I just saw a whole different side so I think she does a really good job players. mcGraw is the face, heart and soul growing list of her many admirers. because as a player, you don’t really in doing that.” “Last year, we were playing of this notre dame program, and “she’s so detail-oriented,” Irish realize how much goes into coach-Allen said mcGraw’s ability to ca-Georgia Tech here, and I played ter­this is where she rules. associate coach niele Ivey said. ing: the behind-the-scenes, the ter her approach to individual play-rible the first half, and she was get­
• • • • • “she works so hard, and she’s such scouting, the recruiting, so much ers is one of her strongest features ting on me at halftime, and then the If nothing else, muffet mcGraw a perfectionist, so I think that’s time. I had so much respect,” she as a coach. second half, we came out and we demands respect. probably the most challenging said. “I called and thanked all my “she’s just a brilliant basketball came on a big run and I hit a bunch 
her careers stats alone are and the most rewarding part. It’s coaches because I know how much mind, honestly,” she said. “she’s a of 3s in a row, and she came to half-enough to tell you that: she’s one the same thing because you have goes into that. hall-of-fame coach, but she’s also court and met me at halfcourt and of five coaches in the history of to make sure, scouting-wise, you “she’s basically the same. she’s really good with handling our per-hugged me,” mabrey recalled. “I’ll college basketball, women’s and know everything, and you’re pre-so intense. I think she does a fan-sonalities and just managing us as just never forget that moment.” men’s, to have at least seven trips to paring her. I learned right from the tastic job of basically kind of chang-young women and making sure Ivey said mcGraw has possessed the Final Four, five championship beginning. ing the way she coaches with the we’re striving for any goal that we that ability to switch gears since her game appearances and 800 wins “I’ve learned so much from her, generation of kids because the gen-want to reach, whether it’s on the own playing days. under her belt. just being a perfectionist. so I guess eration back when I was playing is basketball court or off the basket-“some of my favorite moments 
ball court. so I think she has a re-are, honestly, when we would be ally good balance of both.” in practice, and her son, murphy, 
With those expectations on would come in from grade school,” their backs, mcGraw’s teams have Ivey said. “he’d come on the court, earned a berth in the ncAA tour-and she would totally change from nament in each of the past 21 years. being so intense to just being a lov-For them, the winning culture has ing mother, and I used to always become the status quo. love to see her be able to switch and 
“I think it’s probably a good be able to wear both hats, so that’s thing,” mcGraw said march 8. “I my favorite moments.” think it’s a compliment to us and but from now until the begin-what we’ve done, but I hope people ning of April, when just one team appreciate how hard it is. Winning’s is left to cut down the nets in hard; losing is very easy. Winning Indianapolis, you can count on takes a lot out of you mentally. … mcGraw wearing one hat — the re-We’re supposed to win every game. lentless competitor, never refusing every game we go into we’re picked to give up until she and her team to win, and so we’ve got to be ready reach the top once again. because every single team is giving “It’s a whole new season,” it their best shot every single game. mcGraw said. “We’re 0-0, so we’ve 
“It’s the super bowl for them, and got to start over, and we’ve gotta be for us, we’ve just got to take care of focused on the first game because business.” once you start looking ahead, I 
• • • • • mean, your season could end. 
but there’s another side to the You’ve got to be prepared for every intense, businesslike mcGraw that single round.” not everyone gets to see. 
It comes through when a laugh Contact Mary Green at slips out at a joke in practice, when mgreen8@nd.edu 


ND opens tournament atop Lexington region 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports Writer 
For the third straight season, no. 1 seed notre dame will have a home-court advantage as it seeks yet another Final Four berth. 
As the top seed in the ncAA tournament’s Lexington, Kentucky, region, the Irish will host the first and second rounds of the tourney this weekend at Purcell Pavilion, seeking its seventh straight sweet 16 berth, and for the third straight year, they will face a no. 16 seed to kick things off. 
This year’s bottom seed is north carolina A&T, who made the field of 64 after captur­ing the mid-eastern Athletic conference (meAc) title. The Aggies (19-11, 12-4 meAc) have won of nine of their last 10 games, but their one mutual opponent with notre dame, ohio state, crushed them ear­lier in the year, 89-56. 
“We’ve got to be all business when we come on out, and I’m sure our seniors will take care of that, but we’re gonna focus on north carolina and see what’s gonna happen in that game before we even look forward,” mcGraw said on selection monday. 
beyond the first round, the road becomes significantly more difficult for the Irish. They will meet either no. 8 seed Georgia or no. 9 seed Indiana in the second round, both of whom have posted 20­win seasons. 
The bulldogs (21-9, 9-7 sec) are three seasons removed from an elite eight run but missed the tourney last sea­son. meanwhile, the hoosiers (20-11, 12-6 big Ten) are back in the tournament for the first time in 14 years and have be­come a winning program un­der head coach Teri moren, who was named big Ten coach of the Year this season. 
After the second round, the sweet 16 and elite eight might provide notre dame with the most daunting challenges of any no. 1 seed, but mcGraw insisted her team will not allow itself to think too far ahead. 

“I think everybody’s prob­ably gonna be looking at their bracket and going, ‘We’re in the toughest region,’” mcGraw said. “We’re excited to be go­ing to Lexington, but right now, we’ve got to focus on our first two games. We’ve got great teams coming in here, and we’ve got to do the job on them.” 
Indiana and Georgia have found success this season with wildly different strategies. The hoosiers boast a top-50 of­fense and shooting percentage centered around sophomores Tyra buss (guard) and Amanda cahill (forward), while the bulldogs feature a top-20 de­fense that has limited their opponents to 53.8 points per game this season. In particu­lar, the bulldogs shut down their opponents from 3-point territory; they rank second in the nation in 3-point percent­age defense at 24.2, while the Irish rank second in the ncAA in 3-point percentage. 
starting the tourney within the friendly confines of Purcell Pavilion is an advantage that cannot be overstated, mcGraw said. 
“I think that the best thing is having our fans at home — more comfort here,” mcGraw said. “We know this arena. our fans are gonna make it special for these seniors going out. They want it to be a really great first round.” 
but even assuming the Irish do advance to the sweet 16, they will have their hands full. 
no. 2 seed maryland has made the past two Final Fours and won the big Ten this season. no. 3 Kentucky fea­tures three all-sec players and would be playing on its home court in Lexington. no. 4 stanford is the last team to beat connecticut and ranks second in the nation in field goal percentage defense. no. 5 miami (Fla.) is the only Acc team to beat notre dame in the past two years. even no. 6 oklahoma has played another no. 1 seed, baylor, to within 10 points twice this season. 
And of course, even if notre dame makes it back to the Final Four, the big question on everyone’s minds will be if mcGraw’s team can finally take down Uconn. It’s a ques­tion she received as soon as the bracket was announced this past monday. 
“I think what we try to do is just play well enough every game to beat the best team on our schedule. And cer­tainly everybody knows who the best team on our schedule is,” mcGraw responded. “so I think we’re trying to do this every single day to prepare for that game.” 
before the Irish can play the huskies, however, they must first get through the Aggies of north carolina A&T. Tipoff is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. saturday at Purcell Pavilion. should they win, the Irish would play in the second round monday. 
Contact Greg Hadley at ghadley@nd.edu 



Mary Green 
senior sports Writer 

I’m going for it:notredame will win the national championship. I was going to go with the safe bet, that the Irish would fall to connecticut in the title game, but I’m not convinced that’ll happen this year. 
no, the Irish aren’t bringing Jewell Loyd to this tournament, and they barely have a backup point guard if Lindsay Allen goes out. 
And yet, they still managed to nearly knock off Uconn three months ago, even without AccPlayer of the Yearbrianna Turner, look­ing better in that 10-point loss than they did in the title game last year. Getting pastsouth carolina will be a tough task, butnotredame has an extra edge after the selection commit­tee ranked the Gamecocks as a higherno. 1 seed.notre dame is ready to win it all. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame defeats Connecticut in the title game. 

Greg Hadley 

senior sports Writer 
muffet mcGraw’s squad has one of the toughest regions in the tournament — looming are potential matchups against perennial Final Four contender maryland and stanford, the last team to beat Uconn 
— but notre dame should be able to reach its sixth straight Final Four with relative ease. 
Things get more complicated once the Irish reach Indianapolis. Lost in the narra­tive that is no. 1 connecticut vs. no. 2 notre dame is the fact the Irish barely escaped south carolina in last year’s semifinal, and the Gamecocks return just as strong this season. Without a superstar like Jewell Loyd, notre dame will run into trouble and miss the national championship game. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame loses to South Carolina in the semifinal. 

Ben Padanilam 
Associate sports editor 
The Final Four appears to be a formal­ity for notre dame at this point by all accounts, but it certainly has some poten­tially difficult matchups within its own region. Games with maryland, stanford and Kentucky in Lexington are not to be taken lightly, but that shouldn’t stop the Irish from getting to Indianapolis. 
once there, notre dame’s familiar nar­rative takes a different twist. This year’s squad has a level of depth that makes its always efficient offense a different animal. brianna Turner is a superstar, and the Irish gave connecticut a run for its money already this season without her. After two tightly contested games, notre dame flips the script and takes home the hardware. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame defeats Connecticut in the title game. 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


Daniel O’Boyle 
sports Writer 

notre dame has fallen in the cham­pionship game in three of the last four tournaments. This time, despite an­other no. 1 seed, the path just to make it back there will not be easy. big Ten champion maryland or a Kentucky team playing at home in Lexington are the likely elite eight opponents, while south carolina, which, like the Irish, have lost only to connecticut this year, look set to be the semifi­nal opponent again after last year’s close contest. The Irish should make it to the Final Four again, but this time, even earning the right to face the huskies for the title might be too much to ask. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame loses to South Carolina in the semifinal. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | The observer 

Irish, Wolverines renew rivalry in first round 
By ALEX CARSON 
Assistant managing editor 
While Irish head coach mike brey will embark Friday on his 11th ncAA tournament appear­ance at notre dame, this jour­ney started out differently than the others — because it wasn’t until late Wednesday night that the Irish learned precisely who they’d be playing in the first round. 
“It is a little unusual that you don’t really know your opponent yet,” brey said sunday follow­ing the bracket announcement. “Usually we’ve turned around, I’ve left [the media], and we start breaking down one team.” 
but instead of breaking one team down and preparing for it, brey got the opportunity to spend three days working on the east region’s no. 6-seeded team: notre dame (21-11, 11-7 Acc). 
“I told [the team] I think the most important thing about this week is that we have three days of practice on our floor … to really kind of work on us and get some reps on us,” brey said. 
of course, after Wednesday’s result, notre dame now knows its first opponent: no. 11-seeded michigan in brooklyn, new York, on Friday at approximately 9:40 p.m. 
Unlike the Irish, who fin­ished the season 3-4 in their last seven games, the Wolverines (23-12, 10-8 big Ten) had to play their way into the tournament. Without a win in the big Ten tour­nament over top-seeded Indiana, they would have likely found themselves playing in the nIT this week, and without the 67-62 win over Tulsa on Wednesday in dayton, ohio, they would have crashed out before reaching the final 64. 
Prior to his season-ending in­jury, senior guard caris Levert led the Wolverines in scor­ing with 16.5 points per game. Without Levert, however, junior guard/forward Zak Irvin leads a trio of active michigan players in double figures. 
notre dame and michigan have met 22 times on the hardwood, with the Wolverines ahead 15-7 in the all-time series. The last meeting between the ri­vals was an 87-84, double-over­time michigan victory in Ann Arbor, michigan, on march 20, 2006. 

Playing the winner of a First Four game meant notre dame had the opportunity to see its op­ponent play one last time before Friday’s opener, something soph­omore forward bonzie colson said he saw as a positive. 
“We get to watch a game and see what their tendencies are, how they play offense and de­fense, so we’re excited about that,” colson said sunday. 
Though expectations aren’t as high for this year’s Irish squad as they were last season, notre dame lost just two rotation play­ers from that team. And while Pat connaughton and Jerian Grant were significant departures, it means the core of this year’s team has been there and done that. 
“I feel like our nucleus knows what it takes to advance, and we’re excited about that,” colson said. 
If the Irish move past the first round, they will get a date with either no. 3 seed West virginia or no. 14 seed stephen F. Austin on sunday, with a spot in the sweet 16 on the line. 
The style employed by West virginia head coach bob huggins is best described by his squad’s nickname, “Press virginia.” The mountaineers (26-8, 15-7 big XII) heavily utilize the press on de­fense, forcing a turnover on 25.5 percent of possessions, good for second in the nation. 
The only team in the coun­try that forces turnovers more frequently? stephen F. Austin (27-5, 18-0 southland). The Lumberjacks once more enter the tournament on a tear — they’ve won 20 straight games 
— reminiscent of their 2014 team that upset no. 5 seed virginia commonwealth in its opening game. 
A pair of wins at brooklyn’s barclays center would advance notre dame to the sweet 16 in Philadelphia, where no. 2-seeded 



Alex Carson 
Assistant managing editor 

Throughout the year, we’ve seen both sides of this notre dame team. on one hand, when the Irish are firing on all cylinders, they’re capable of beating anyone in the country — that was evident in impressive wins over north carolina and Louisville. 
but I just can’t shake the image of the Irish team that, quite frankly, didn’t have much success against teams of michigan’s caliber. The early-season losses against monmouth and Alabama raised concerns, ones that returned when notre dame dropped games to Georgia Tech and Florida state last month. 
There’s no reason the Irish can’t make a run to the second weekend. but the inconsistency against lesser teams doesn’t bode well. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame loses to Michigan in the first round. 


Marek Mazurek 
sports editor 

After a walloping at the hands of north carolina last Friday, notre dame has precious little time to get its act together before a rivalry game against michigan. 
but mike brey will have his team ready for the Wolverines. The Irish will find a way to fix their turnover issues and Zach Auguste should dominate michigan’s frontcourt. michigan shot 6-of-25 from deep against Tulsa on Wednesday night and if the Wolverines’ cold streak continues, the Irish will advance. 
however, the Irish will not make it much farther. They will likely get West virginia in the second round and the mountaineers will send the Irish packing. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame loses to West Virginia in the second round. 

Brian Plamondon 
sports Writer 
While notre dame should handle a michigan team that was a questionable tournament team at best, don’t be so certain. 
The Irish haven’t been playing their best basketball as of late, and every year since the First Four began, the late night Wednesday game winner has won its next game. 
but in the end, the Irish should slide by in that contest. The next round notre dame should face a veteran West virginia squad with its signature press that ranks second in defensive turnover percentage. 
That will be enough to doom the turnover-prone Irish. If notre dame somehow sneaks by the mountaineers, it could manage to make another run due to an overseeded Xavier in its region. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame loses to West Virginia in the second round. 
Xavier would be the most likely opponent. The other side of the east region’s bracket is littered with squads the Irish have recent history against: notre dame split a season series with no. 1-seeded north carolina, lost in december to no. 5-seeded Indiana and ended its season last year with a 68-66 defeat to no. 4-seeded Kentucky in the elite eight. 
but brey said he isn’t looking that far ahead yet. 
“You look at a weekend thing,” brey said. “I haven’t really looked past [brooklyn]; I just glanced to see who else was in new York with us.” 
A return to new York, especial­ly being in the same pod as West virginia, brings back memories for brey and Irish fans of trips for big east tournaments. 
“We’re thrilled to be in new York,” brey said. “It’s a great notre dame town; we have great mem­ories of our big east days, playing and hanging out in the city.” 
Contact Alex Carson at        acarson1@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


Manny De Jesus 
sports Writer 

notre dame’s success in the tournament rests in the hands of the backcourt. 
When demetrius Jackson and steve vasturia play well, the Irish have one of the most potent offenses in the country. When they both struggle, notre dame looks just like it did two years ago, when it went 15-17, and can lose to anyone in the field. 
The Irish were given a favorable first-round matchup against michigan, which gives them one final chance to piece the puzzle together before playing much more formidable opponents. 
however, I don’t see notre dame putting it all together in time for West virginia’s pesky press defense. 
PREDICTION: Notre Dame loses to West Virginia in the second round. 

Finding a rhythm 
Notre Dame’s backcourt knows it must solve the squad’s recent turnover issues as tournament play commences 

By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports Writer 
When the Irish gathered in the locker room after the ncAA tour­nament selection show sunday night, they answered the usual questions about how excited they were and what they knew about their potential opponents. 
but they also answered much harder questions related to per­formance: What has been the cause of the team’s recent turn­over struggles? Why have they got­ten off to such slow starts? What clicked during the 10-game stretch where the Irish went 8-2 during the heart of their Acc slate that isn’t now? 
All things considered, this notre dame team is not like last season’s 32-6 squad that was one basket away from the Final Four. At 21­11, this team has its own identity; one riddled with immense talent, strong leadership and a host of in­consistencies along the way. 
And Irish head coach mike brey is okay with that, ready to forget about the ups and downs of the season and focus only on what his team can control: what’s ahead of it. 
“I think for us, you probably tear up the stats sheet of the regu­lar season — obviously, there are some good stats in there and there are some not so good stats — and say, ‘complete clean slate,’” brey said sunday. 
A good portion of brey’s dispos­ing of statistics might have to do with his team’s performance in Washington last week at the Acc tournament, where the Irish won a thrilling overtime game over perennial power duke before fall­ing flat a night later against north carolina, a no. 1 seed in the ncAA tournament. 
“We got beat good by a heck of a team, but we won a great one down there too,” brey said. “We won a thrilling one down there and showed some real march grit. I thought we ran into a buzzsaw against maybe the best team in the tournament, so we’re not going to really dwell on that. Just because we didn’t have a trophy at the se­lection show up there like last year doesn’t mean we don’t feel like we can get going a little bit.” 
In order to get going, however, notre dame will have to stop turning the ball over. While they still rank fifth best in the country, averaging only 9.72 turnovers per game, the Irish turned it over 18 times against duke and 17 times against north carolina. 
“There’s no secret formula, it’s just about handling the ball,” ju­nior guard demetrius Jackson, who turned it over seven times in the two games in Washington, said. 
While pundits have consistently referenced notre dame’s defen­sive woes all season, the turnover problem is troublesome because it not only has happened so re­cently — as part of a stretch where the Irish have gone a mere 3-4 — but because it also has affected Jackson and junior guard steve vasturia, a duo that many consider to be one of the best backcourts in all of college basketball. 
“That’s a conversation that steve and I have had, just being better,” Jackson said. “It just comes down to really taking care of [the ball], being sharp, paying attention to detail, so it’s really going to start with us, the two lead guards han­dling the ball most of the time. so we have to set the tone, set the ex­ample for the rest of the group.” 
“I think our backcourt needs to play better, there’s no question,” brey said. “We’re so reliant on those guys and we’re not a six seed without what we got out of our guards’ body of work this year and I don’t have to bring up anything with them. Those two guys are re­ally hard on themselves. For us to advance, our guards are going to have to find that rhythm that they had really most of this season.” 
That rhythm and backcourt combination contributed to notre dame having a few key stretches earlier this season. 
In January, the Irish won four conference games in a row, in­cluding an impressive road win at duke’s cameron Indoor stadium. Just a few weeks later, notre dame downed north carolina, clemson and Louisville in succession, prompting a discussion about the Irish chasing the Acc regular-sea­son title. Jackson and vasturia were key in those big games, with the former scoring 24 and 27 against duke and Louisville, respectively, and the latter adding 22 and 20. 
since then? 
The Irish have struggled, losing to Georgia Tech and getting blown out by a middling Florida state team before their recent up-and­down run in the Acc tournament. 
Part of the problem may stem from long cold stretches, particu­larly in the final few minutes be­fore the half. That hurt the Irish against Florida state and miami late in the season, and was exac­erbated in the Acc tournament against duke and north carolina. 
“The game situation we will do [in practice] is four minutes left, end of half,” brey said sunday. “because we did not handle end of halves well. We were fortunate enough to come back and win the duke game, but we could not re­cover in the north carolina game 
— and it was a rash of turnovers that were, I thought, very out of character.” 
Another issue may stem from notre dame just not scoring like it used to. After spending a good por­tion of the season ranked first in Ken Pomeroy’s Adjusted offensive efficiency metric (an estimate of the points scored per 100 posses­sions a team would have against the average d-1 defense), the Irish have slipped to 10th in recent weeks. While Jackson and vasturia know a lot of the offense rides on them, brey said he doesn’t want to over-coach and wants them to be as loose as possible. 

“The thing with [Jackson] all year — it’s no different now — is just trying to take the weight of the world off him and have him smile a little bit,” brey said. 
vasturia, who is shooting just 11-of-43 from the field and 1-for­16 from 3-point range over his last five games, admits he has been struggling. 
“For me, I just want to help this team win games,” vasturia said. “Just knocking down shots and staying aggressive.” 
If the Irish do want to win games in the ncAA tournament, they will have to clean up their act. If notre dame takes care of michigan, it will have to face one of the top two teams in the country in de­fensive turnover percentage: no. 14-seeded stephen F. Austin and no. 3-seeded West virginia are first and second respectively in that category. 
no matter the opponents along the road, the Irish will look to fol­low brey’s advice and tear up the stat sheet, sport a short memory and just play their game. 
“mistakes do happen, it’s not a perfect game,” Jackson said. “how quick can you bounce back from that?” 
The Irish will soon find out. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MARCH 18, 2016 | The observer 

Auguste drives Irish into postseason play 

By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports Writer 
It’s easy to overlook Zach Auguste. surrounded by nbA talent throughout his four years at notre dame, it can be easy to forget how essential the marlborough, massachusetts, native is to the Irish. 
Jerian Grant. Pat connaughton. demetrius Jackson. 
Those are some of the names that quickly come to mind when thinking about the recent his­tory of notre dame basketball. but over these last four years, Auguste has quietly made a name for himself. From sitting behind Garrick sherman and Tom Knight his freshman year, Auguste has grown into one of the Acc’s best big men. 
In the Acc quarterfinal matchup against duke, it was almost impossible to look past Auguste’s performance. 
down by 16 points in the sec­ond half, it looked as if the de­fending Acc champions were on their way out of the confer­ence tournament. A sudden 14-0 run flipped the script for the Irish, which put them right back into the contest and even­tually forced it to go to overtime. And it took a total team effort to walk away from the quarterfi­nals with a win: Junior forward 
v.J. beachem scored 19 points, which included four critical 3-pointers, sophomore forward bonzie colson hauled in 12 boards and added another 12 points and even freshman for­ward matt ryan sparked some offense early in the game with three 3-pointers. 
but without Auguste, the Irish don’t win that game. 
he out-rebounded blue devils centers marshall Plumlee and chase Jeter 22 rebounds to 10 and scored a team-high 19 points. Let’s not leave out the fact that of those 22 boards, the 6-foot-10 forward brought down eight offensive boards, which was four more than any blue devil. 

Auguste’s tremendous perfor­mance against duke wasn’t an anomaly. In notre dame’s piv­otal win against north carolina, the no. 1 seed in the south region, Auguste recorded 15 points and 10 rebounds. Against then-no. 13 Louisville, he re­corded another double-double with 11 points and 12 rebounds. Against miami, the no. 3 seed in the south region, he tallied 18 points and 11 rebounds. In his final game at Purcell Pavilion, the senior put up 24 points and hauled in 11 rebounds. 
he’s 14th in the nation in re­bounding, averaging 10.8 re­bounds per game, and tied for 12th in double-doubles with 
19. There’s little debate about whether or not Auguste has truly made a name for himself during his four years at notre dame. despite that, the third-team All Acc forward is still determined to have his name remembered across the country during the upcoming ncAA tournament. 
“Individually, I just want to go out there and play the best I can to play and make a name for my­self so that I can compete with the best of them,” Auguste said. “As a team, we’ve just gotta con­tinue to play our basketball, take what we learned from last year and use it as a learning experi­ence to try and boost our con­fidence to really just play deep into march.” 
In last season’s elite eight run, notre dame was a much different team. Its backcourt was substantially deeper with the leadership of Grant and connaughton, which spread the court out for Auguste. he scored 25 against northeastern, 15 against Wichita state and 20 in the two-point loss to a then-undefeated Kentucky squad. 
This season, the roster is thin­ner. Jackson and vasturia, two of the team’s main contributors in last season’s run have strug­gled lately, and turnovers have made it difficult for the offense to get into the rhythm it did late against duke in the Acc quarterfinals. 
even with those struggles, Auguste has still managed to play well and has continued to rack up the double-doubles. but he knows just as well as most that it’s going to take a team effort if notre dame wants to replicate last year’s tournament run. 
“It really has to start off with the leaders,” Auguste said. “me, steve and demetrius. We have to set the tone. especially me as a senior. I’ve got to come out there and be consistent. I’ve got to be that rock for the team, and that’s not about just scoring, but being there on the defensive or offensive glass … and being strong enough to hold out our opponent.” 
he’s been as consistent as he’s ever been at notre dame. but if the Irish want to make it out of their region, which in­cludes power teams like north carolina, Xavier, West virginia and Kentucky, Auguste is likely going to have to play some of the best basketball of his career. 
but Irish fans shouldn’t put it past a guy who’s averaging a double-double this season. It’s gone unnoticed by many across the nation, but the senior is a major threat for this notre dame team. 
“early on, it was just me try­ing hard to establish that con­sistency and now that I’ve put it together, it’s come second na­ture to me,” Auguste said. “Just something that you go out there and do and something – I can’t do it every night, but I strive for that. If we just stick to what we do, we come out hungry, have that edge and have a great start, I think we’ll be hard to play.” 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
COMMENTARY 

Which ND team will show up? 

Marek Mazurek 
sports editor 
All season long, notre dame has been one of the toughest teams to figure out. 
The team lost its two best players from last year, Pat connaughton and Jerian Grant, and looked to enter the 2016 cam­paign as an average Acc team. 
however, led by junior guard demetrius Jackson, this year’s squad refused to fade into ob­scurity. on Jan. 16, the Irish upset then-no. 9 duke, a win that was part of a four-game win­ning streak. Three weeks later, the Irish knocked off then-no. 2 north carolina and then-no. 13 Louisville before stumbling in losses to Georgia Tech and Florida state. 
This stretch of games paints a glaringly clear picture of notre dame’s ncAA tournament chances: the wins over north carolina and Louisville prove the Irish have the talent to hang with anyone in the country, but the losses to Florida state and Georgia Tech prove the Irish have problems avoiding playing down to the level of their competition. 
And if notre dame plays to the level of their competition come Friday, they’ll be on the first plane back to south bend. 
The no. 6 seed in the east region, the Irish will play no. 11-seeded michigan and this is problematic. When the Irish play teams ranked between 51 and 100 in the ratings Percentage Index, they’re 3-6: michigan is ranked 57th. 
For a team ranked 31st itself, success against average teams should be notre dame’s bread and butter. Yet that has not been the case this year. Against teams in the top 25, the Irish are a re­spectable 4-5 and against teams ranked outside the top 100, they are a perfect 13-0. but against run-of-the-mill teams, the Irish lost twice as many games as they won and with a first round matchup against one such team fast approaching, the Irish will have to turn this trend on its head. 
Thus, notre dame’s tourna­ment fate depends on whether the team comes ready to play. 
Just the fact that it is march madness will not accomplish this. notre dame has a bad habit of making early exits in the big dance — see 2011, 2012 and 2013. In fact, last year was the first sea­son since 2003 in which the Irish advanced to the sweet 16. 
Furthermore, the team had a chance to chase the regular-sea­son title in the Acc, but faltered against Georgia Tech and Florida state. If making a run at the con­ference title doesn’t get this team to play up to their potential, it’s not a given a contest against an old rival will. 
hand in hand with readiness to play is the plague of slow starts the Irish have suffered as of late. Against miami two weeks ago, the hurricanes scored the first 12 points and led 21-3 eight minutes into the first half. Against the Tar heels last Friday, the Irish trailed 41-22 at halftime. 
slow starts kill a team’s chances, especially in the ncAA tournament and especially against underdogs. michigan will come out of the gates hungry and physical and if the Irish don’t put them away early, an upset is likely without a Grant to make game-winning plays. 
being prepared is crucial for this squad because when the Irish do decide to play well, they are hard to stop. In the second half of the north carolina game, notre dame put up 50 points on one of the best defensive teams in the country. should the Irish advance, the combination of senior forward Zach Auguste’s presence on the glass and Jackson’s ability to drive the ball make this a dangerous team to face. 
In the end, this year’s ncAA tournament will not come down to strategy or field goal percent­age or points in the paint or even mustard uniforms. This march is all about whether or not mike brey’s team arrives in brooklyn wanting to win. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






