THE INDEPENDENT TO UNCOVER NEWSPAPER SERVING THE TRUTH NOTRE DAME AND AND REPORT SAINT MARy’S IT ACCURATELy 

VOLUME 50, ISSUE 109 | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Grotto service reflects on sexual assault 
Student government responds to recent sexual assault report and promotes increased awareness 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
Associate News Editor 
Students gathered to pray for healing Friday afternoon at the Grotto in response to a Feb. 24 off-campus sexual assault reported by a Notre Dame student to the South Bend Police Department. 
Dan Sehlhorst, former student body chief of staff, offered a reflection on the reported assault. 
“Community, charity, hope, heart, zeal, family, love. As we stand here to­gether in this beautiful grot­to, these words awake within our hearts a feeling of what it means to be a member of the Notre Dame community. At Notre Dame, we always hear that we stand for more than just learning in the classroom, success on the field or discovery in the lab,” Sehlhorst said. 
Sehlhorst said Notre Dame stands for justice, unique human dignity and “stand­ing for each other.” 
“As I look at the group of us today, I sense that that feeling runs deeper in our hearts. Today, however, we also grapple with another set of feelings,” he said. 
According to Sehlhorst, the University community fell short of its “mandate and our collective responsibility to meet the demands of our Catholic mission.” 
see SERVICE PAGE  5 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 
In response to an off-campus sexual assault reported on Feb. 24, student government held a prayer service at the Grotto on Friday, encouraging students to promote awareness and discussion about sexual assault. 



SMC Dance Marathon raises money for hospital 

By IZZY KEHNER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon (SMCDM) raised its largest ever total Saturday, bringing in more than $105,000 in donations for the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. The funds raised during the 12-hour dance mara­thon as well as in the months leading up to it help to provide treatment for children regardless of their families’ ability to pay. 
Maranda Pennington, Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon 
see DANCE PAGE 3 


Diplomat analyzes Vatican 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
News Writer 

Ken Hackett, the United States Ambassador to the Holy See, spoke about Pope Francis and his vision for the Catholic Church at Eck Visitors Center on Friday afternoon. Hackett, who works closely with the Vatican, said Pope Francis is the most reform-minded pope in recent history. 
“Pope Francis has kept the Church’s vision sacred, but uses it to influence policies and actions more dramati­cally than has been done in a long time,” Hackett said. 
Considering he is more radical than his predeces­sors, Hackett said it was in­evitable that some people would disagree with his vision. 
“When a new boss arrives and implements new ways of doing things … there’s going to be resistance,” Hackett said. 
Hackett said one con­troversial action was Pope Francis’ appointment of a financial overseer for many Vatican sub organizations. 
“When an institution has evolved over so many years, and its sub organizations have grown accustomed to a certain degree of opera­tional and financial auton­omy, you’re bound to have 
see AMBASSADOR PAGE 4 


ND alumni develop app 
By SELENA PONIO 
Associate News Editor 

With the summer swiftly approaching, students of­ten find themselves lost in a sea of internship applica­tions and turn to sites such as LinkedIn or GoIrish to help them in their search. Two Notre Dame alumni aim to simplify the career and internship search with CareerLightning. 
Frank  Bugaris,  who  
graduated  from  Notre  
Dame  in  1999  with  a  

major in accounting, creat­ed CareerLightning, a mo­bile app that aims to create “immediate and impact­ful real world career intro­ductions,” according to its website. 
“A big part of the ca­reer I had in the past 10 to 15 years has been trying to find and hire people,” Bugaris said. “Although it’s one of the most rewarding parts of managing, it’s also extremely difficult. Lots of the methods are really slow or relying on word of mouth or it can cost a small fortune.” 
Bugaris said newspaper advertisements and web­sites such as LinkedIn of­ten charge a lot for access to their resources. He said CareerLightning offers a more affordable alternative for prospective job candi­dates, and its results are also more immediate. 
“It’s all designed to be solely on your mobile de­vice, so there’s nothing to 
see APP PAGE 5 


NEWS PAGE 2 VIEWPOINT PAGE 7 SCENE PAGE 9 MEN’S BASKETBALL PAGE 16 FOOTBALL PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Editor-In-Chief 
Margaret Hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Kayla Mullen  Cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: Alex Carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: Clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie Galioto Viewpoint Editor: Claire Radler Sports Editor: Marek Mazurek 
Scene Editor: Erin McAuliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: Nicole Caratas Photo Editor: Caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: Susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei Cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: Mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: Marisa Aguayo Controller: Emily Reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
Ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
How is your bracket doing? 

Conor Dillon 
freshman 
Carroll Hall 
“Terrible.” 
Kate Sescleifer 
freshman 
McGlinn Hall 
“I threw mine away.” 
Ryan Gryzb 
senior 
Alumni Hall 

“Actually decent. 86th percentile nationally” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Owen Lane 
sophomore 
O’Neill Hall 
“Two Words: Michigan State” 
Mark Shealy 
junior 
Keough Hall 
“I had Michigan State winning it.” 
Tom Nye 
senior 
Alumni Hall 
“Pretty pathetic. I stopped                            
looking already.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College.  Editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The Observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant 
Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief  Margaret Hynds. 
Post Office Information 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The Observer is published at: 
024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame and additional mailing offices 
POSTMASTER 
Send address corrections to: 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
024 South Dining hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-077 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. 
All reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Rachel O’Grady Ben Padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
JP Gschwind Victoria Llorens Lucas Masin-Moyer 
Graphics Scene 

Lauren Weldon Adam Ramos Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 
Photo Viewpoint 

Caitlyn Jordan Claire Radler Chili Cook-Off Factulty and Staff Tax Assistance Evening Mass Morning Prayer Harper Hall Interfaith Forum Program Basillica of the Sacred Basillica of the Sacred 4 p.m.-6 p.m. Lafortune Center Geddes Hall Heart Heart Proceeds benefit 12:15 p.m.-1 p.m. 3 p.m-5 p.m. 5 p.m. 9 a.m. 
Corrections 

Relay for Life. Explore world religions. Prepare tax returns. Lord’s Supper Mass. Prayer for Good Friday. 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and 

Women’s Basketball Softball vs. Eastern Softball vs. Michigan Guided Tour: The Stations of the Cross 
strives for the highest standards 

vs. Indiana Michigan State Easter 1916 Rebellion Basillica of the Sacred 
of journalism at all times. We do, 

Joyce Center Mellissa Cook Stadium Melissa Cook Stadium Hesburgh Library Heart 
however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 5 p.m.-7 p.m. 5:30 p.m. 7:15 p.m. please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so The Irish take on the The Irish take on the The Irish take on the Explore works from Ceremony open to the we can correct our error. Hoosiers. Eagles. Spartans. the Easter Uprising. Public. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | THE OBSERVER 

Notre Dame students launch Friends of Israel Club 
as a group this past February. 
By ANDREA VALE 
The other three co-founders are junior James Argue, grad-
Four students have founded uate student Brendan Roche the Friends of Israel Club on and senior Matt Matigian. Notre Dame’s campus, aim-Olohan said he was inspired ing to educate students on the to start the club after noticing history and current political a bias in the information pro-situation within Israel. The vided to students. club, which began meeting “After attending the last month, is a bipartisan po-‘Understanding Gaza’ panel, I litical group which also hopes was very disappointed that all 
News Writer 
“I founded The Friends of Israel to spread awareness of the rich history of Israel from Joshua to David, from subjugation and exile at the hands of the Assyrians, Macedonians, Romans, Byzantines, Arabs, Ottomans, English and others, to independence in 1948” 
Tom Olohan co-founder and president Friends of Israel 
to offer opportunities to sup­port Pro-Israel politicians and legislation. 
According to junior James Argue, co-founder of the club, the Friends of Israel’s stance is opposed to the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) Campaign. 
“We hope to … provide an alternative point of view on campus,” Argue said in an email. “We believe that most Notre Dame students would strongly support the American-Israeli alliance if they examined these issues more closely. We hope to pro­vide that opportunity and to help create an informed and meaningful dialogue throughout campus.” 
According to senior presi­dent and co-founder Tom Olohan, the club was founded in December 2015 and first met the attendees left that room with only one side of the story of the 2014 conflict between Israel and Hamas,” Olohan said in an email, “While I published an article that ad­dressed some of these issues in The Observer the next spring, I soon realized that a student club would be the most effec­tive way to educate students on these issues. 
“I founded The Friends of Israel to spread awareness of the rich history of Israel from Joshua to David, from subjuga­tion and exile at the hands of the Assyrians, Macedonians, Romans, Byzantines, Arabs, Ottomans, English and oth­ers, to independence in 1948. Students need to know about the dangerous regional situa­tion of Israel and the incred­ible benefits Israel provides for the United States. Finally, 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

I founded the club to let stu­dents know about Pro-Israel politicians and legislation and offer students the opportunity to support both.” 
According to Olohan, the club’s primary activ­ity involves coordinating presentations geared at edu­cating students on impor­tant American-Israeli issues, and on the history of and current political situation in Israel. Additionally, the club brings in Pro-Israeli speakers throughout the year, and will host an event towards the end of the spring semester cel­ebrating Israeli culture and the American-Israeli alliance. 
On Wednesday, the club is planning to present at the College Republicans club meeting to both introduce the Friends of Israel Club and its goals, as well as to pres­ent opportunities to support the campaigns of pro-Israel legislators. 
According to Roche, other events planned for the se­mester include a March 30 talk by yuval Shaham, cur­rent Israeli Emissary to the Jewish Federation of Saint Joseph Valley, as well as an April 8 event in South Bend co-sponsored with the Jewish Federation of Saint Joseph Valley during which Arab-Israeli diplomat George Deek will speak. 
Roche said that students should be interested in Israel because it “[provides] the [United States] with key intel­ligence regarding nations in the surrounding area.” 
“They also have cooperated in the United States, particu­larly in the field of technology, which has helped the profit­ability of U.S. companies. It is also important that it is a democracy, unlike the major­ity of countries in the region, and that it is a true ally in the face of many regimes that have a very unfavorable view of America,” Roche said. 
“We are hoping to reach out to the incoming class, as well as providing an alter­nate point of view for those already on campus,” Argue said. “The public is often only given one side of the sto­ry, and this is just as true at Notre Dame as elsewhere. We want to provide the missing information and to be a voice on the other side of the issue. Again, we want to stress that we are a bipartisan group and that we support a two-state solution in the right condi­tions. Ultimately, we want to raise awareness of the plight of Israel and to be the catalyst for meaningful debate on our campus.” 
Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 


dance 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 

president, said the mara­thon itself is a culmination of a year’s hard work. 
“The biggest [events] include our FT5K run/ walk in October and then 
“We raised $105,963, the biggest [amount] in Saint Mary’s history” 
Maggie McKinnon 
Saint Mary’s freshman 

Riley Week in February,” Pennington said. “During Riley Week, our goal is to spread the message of Riley to the student body and make people more inter­ested in participating with Dance Marathon.” 
Pennington said several families whose children have sought treatment at Riley Hospital are invit­ed to share their stories at Dance Marathon each year. 
“[The stories of Riley] really put matters of my life into perspective,” Pennington said. “I can be stressed out of my mind for school or other reasons, but then I will remember the work I’m involved with in Dance Marathon and all the kids that are literally fighting for their lives. It has made me more grateful and more willing to advo­cate for those in need.” 
Pennington said these testimonies have reaf­firmed her decision to be­come a nurse because they continually remind her of the importance of caring for those in need. 
“A major part of being a nurse is being a holistic advocate for your patient,” Pennington said. “I feel like my experiences and skills I have acquired as a leader in Dance Marathon and as a nursing student making me better at both roles.” 
Pennington said she hopes Dance Marathon continues to engage stu­dents in fundraising efforts for sick children. 
“I hope that we con­tinue to increase our ef­forts to raise awareness and funds for the amazing kids and families at Riley Hospital for Children while also gaining more student participation each year,” Pennington said. “The pas­sion and dedication of the women I work closely with all year is amazing.” 
First-time partici­pant freshman Maggie McKinnon heard about SMCDM from her sister, ju­nior Bridget McKinnon. 
“We raised $105,963, the biggest [amount] in Saint Mary’s history,” Maggie McKinnon said. “It was a lot of fun. I think my favor­ite part was when we did … a circle and they played the song ‘Angels Among Us’ and we just stood there and sang along. The [SMCDM executive board members] would come along and find their committee members and just give them hugs and it was just really nice.” 
Freshman participant Nicole Blandin said she found the experience inspiring. 
“I was very emotional [when the families were sharing their stories of Riley Hospital],” Blandin said.  “It kind of showed us the whole point of the eve­ning and gave us a better perspective and more con­nection to the families.” 
Contact Izzy Kehner at ikehner01@saintmarys.edu 


Ambassador 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
some tensions,” Hackett said. 
Hackett said this initiative is part of Pope Francis’s plan to rid the Church of its ex­cesses and refocus attention on the poor and suffering. 
“He counsels [bishops] to move amongst their people, and to shed the trappings and the luxuries of higher of­fice,” Hackett said. 
Pope Francis does this himself, Hackett said, by in­teracting frequently with the deprived and lowly. 
“His preference is generally to meet and have encounters with the simple, the meek, the troubled, the sick, the prisoners and the homeless,” Hackett said. 
According to Hackett, Pope Francis ensures his actions and reforms are just by con­sulting a group of nine cardi­nals from around the world. 
“He uses these cardinals as a sounding board, and as a kitchen cabinet,” Hackett said. 
Hackett said the best ex­ample of Pope Francis’s col­laborative reform is seen in “Laudato Si’,” his encyclical on climate change. 
Pope Francis realized the importance of meticulous research when formulating this encyclical, Hackett said. 
“He was prepared and aware that if he was going to issue an encyclical on cli­mate change, he would have to apply tough, scientific rig­or, since it would be picked apart,” Hackett said. 
Hackett said Pope Francis assembled a diverse team of 
“His preference is generally to meet and have encounters with the simple, the meek, the troubled, the sick, the prisoners and the homeless.” 
Ken Hakcett 
Ambassador to the Holy See 
United States 
experts to help write the en­vironmental encyclical. 
“He came with a group of international legislators from around the world who were interested in environ­mental climate change, and they met in the Vatican and shared their research,” he said. 
The resulting encycli­cal, Hackett said, has had a profound impact because of how it framed climate change as a moral issue. 
“The encyclical gave moral cover to those politicians who had to make very difficult de­cisions and commitments on climate change,” he said. 
Hackett said the impact can be seen in particular in Mission Innovation, an ini­tiative signed by the United States, China and several other countries focusing on expanding clean energy re­search, and the American Business Act on Climate Pledge, which aims to make large corporations more sustainable. 
According to Hackett, Pope Francis helped to catalyze these reforms. 
“He was influencing the global agenda,” Hackett said. “It was an agenda that reso­nated for many in the United States and worldwide.” 
Hackett said these reforms and the widespread influ­ence they have had are help­ing to rebrand the Catholic Church. 
“These changes are gain­ing credibility for how the Church and the pope are perceived on a world stage,” Hackett said. 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 
PAID ADVERTISEMENT PAID ADVERTISEMENT NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | THE OBSERVER 





“Then midterms rolled around. Then finals. Holidays crept closer, which meant for me … a growing list of to-dos. Job applications stacked up, as did the assignments and the reading materials. And with the distractions of my day-to-day life, I stopped ask­ing questions about what was next in the fight against sexu­al violence,” he said. 
Sehlhorst said he forgot what it meant to be part of the community and thus what it meant to stand for one another. 
“Perhaps you’ve felt the pressure for change lessen in your heart too. Perhaps you, too, forgot. Let this moment together serve as a wake up call for all of us. Today is not only a moment of shortcom­ings and brokenness … our presence here today sends another signal,” he said. 
The prayer service sends a message of hope across the community, Sehlhorst said. 
“We hope for a fuller, stron­ger, more just Notre Dame — safe from the threat of sexual violence and healed from the wounds of sexual violence,” he said. 
Sehlhorst said he dreams of a Notre Dame fully devoted to the care of each individual and a community unified in its commitment to preventing sexual violence. 
“This commitment of heart must also translate into tan­gible action. When you hear an inappropriate sexual joke, speak up. When friends put themselves in unsafe situa­tions, do not let it slide. Write the Viewpoint demanding 
Service 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
“It is imperative to accept our burden in a culture that does not do enough to prevent violence,” he said. 
Sehlhorst said public sup­port for preventing sexual vi­olence on campus was strong at the beginning of the fall semester. 
“It was bolstered further by a string of reports of sexual assault during the first weeks back on campus. Students, faculty and staff called for change. Students began to mobilize, many impassioned discussions were held, and the anger around sexual vio­lence was palpable on cam­pus,” he said. 
Sehlhorst said he felt that same feeling deeply, and saw it in others on campus. However, he said he saw this anger fade as the year went on. 
greater transparency on sex­ual assault cases. When the weekends come around be aware of your surroundings. Don’t let friends leave with­out the group,” he said. 
The prayer service conclud­ed with the Alma Mater, and attendees each lit a candle in solidarity with survivors of sexual assault. 
At the end of his reflection, Sehlhorst said he encourages students to take responsibil­ity for one another. 
“This task will not be easy. It will not be quick. But it is our task, our calling … let us never forget who we are as a Notre Dame family. Let us never forget to stand for each other,” he said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 

App 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
plug in to your computer — it’s all on mobile,” Bugaris said. “Right now, I’m target­ing start up technology com­panies and the candidates that they’re looking for. It could be a recent graduate, an intern or someone who has been out for 10 years do­ing all kinds of stuff.” 
Bugaris worked with Ben Roesch, a 2008 alumnus and co-founder of Cultivate Labs, the company respon­sible for the design and pro­gramming of the app. 
“Working with Frank was probably the strongest draw for us,” Roesch said in an email. “Lots of people have an idea or a vision for an ap­plication, but a lot of them are pretty haphazard con­cepts where they want to pull 
“The most attractive part of CareerLightning, to me, is the fact that it is focused and light-weight. It’s something that you can peek in on when you have a few minutes here or there.” 
Ben Roesch 
co-founder 
Cultivate Labs 
feature X from Facebook, feature y from Twitter and 20 other features from all over the place. Frank had a much tighter, focused vision for the concept that became CareerLightning.” 
Roesch said CareerLightning gives ap­plicants the opportunity to simplify their career search by eliminating any unneces­sary frills. 
“The most attractive part of CareerLightning, to me, is the fact that it is focused and lightweight. It’s some­thing that you can peek in on when you have a few min­utes here or there,” Roesch said. “Contrast that with something like LinkedIn where there is so much go­ing on that it can get over­whelming and distracting, rather than focusing on the actual career search.” 
Bugaris said his hope is that the app makes a differ­ence in peoples’ lives by al­leviating some of the stress that comes with any job search and decreasing the time it takes for individuals to get their applications out to potential employers. 
“I think it cuts down on the ‘submit your resume into the email black hole of no responses’ nonsense that seems to happen to other people,” Bugaris said. “My biggest feelings are that it decreases the time substan­tially from the time some­one posts a position to when they can potentially get a response from somebody. Right now it’s nothing, it’s free for applicants and tech­nology companies.” 
Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 




InSIdE column 
Areincarnation of the 1960’s 

Andrea Vale 
News Writer 
For a moment, it’s 2016. I am twenty years old. 
I imagine that relatively soon I’ll look back on 2016 in the same way that older relatives and teachers look back on the sixties — it was a strange, strange time, I’ll say. 
Racial tensions are flaring up again, in Ferguson (Newark), Baltimore (Watts), for racial profiling, heating up then bursting in summer riots and shootings in cities a little too close to us. 
Again, college campuses are hotbeds of activ­ism. Berkeley is still roaring, I guess, but yale and Missouri seem to be stealing that stage. It’s hard to fish the meaningful out of the constant, the ever-present, the sea of protest and offense. Every day something newly shocking. 
We’re fighting a war that a lot of people think we have no right to be fighting. Some are dis­turbed by our own all-too deliberate and aware infliction of pain on civilians. Some are angry that anyone could see it that way, saying what did you ever think war was, this is our soldiers dying for us to preserve safety and freedom and it goes so far beyond that CNN shock value. It’s polarizing, dividing. 
Some people love our president. Some people make Warhol-style pop-art with his face on it, calling him a socialist. 
There are so many words that sometimes you just want to shut your eyes and stop thinking. Everyone has an opinion, everyone is over-analyzing, so deeply and so often that most of it doesn’t have substance anymore and it’s all starting to feel a little numb. 
Free love again? We’re broadening our defi­nitions once more, but it’s not sexy this time around — this time it’s honorable. Interracial love was love. Now gay love is love. Queer love is love. 
The American Dream is changing again. Immigrants continue to come and be protested, and suburbia and cubicles are being rejected a second time over. 
We’re turning on, tuning in and dropping out just like Timothy Leary told us to — but instead of psychedelic drugs, we’re escaping reality through technology. 
HAIM is the new Fleetwood Mac. 
And, if you care about things like that, the fashion is coming back. 
My professors and bosses and relatives look back on the sixties as bewildering, exhilarating, exhausting — but above all, they look back on them. This feels real to us now, especially to us on college campuses — when and how will we clamber out of the surreal we’re buried in, and how will we look back on it? 
Contact Andrea Vale at avale@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A monumentally important nomination 
Jordan Ryan 
Words of WisDome 

On March 16, 2016, President Obama nomi­nated Merr ick Garland to the Supreme Court of the United States. While this issue is being po­liticized in the press, Republicans are rightfully rejecting any nominee at this time. 
Judge Garland does have a history of arguably centrist positions. For example, in 2003, Judge Garland joined in an opinion that detainees of Guantanamo Bay did not have a right to judi­cial review of their status in federal court. Judge Garland was subjected to substantial criticism from the left as a result of his decision. He also ruled in favor of expanding the rights of corpora­tions regarding campaign finance and in support of eliminating federal limits on campaigning financing, much to the chagrin of the liberal left. 
There are nonetheless major concerns be­ing heard from the Republican camp concern­ing Judge Garland’s nomination. A persistent source of anxiety among conservatives relates to Judge Garland’s seemingly hostile stance on is­sues relating to the Second Amendment right to bear arms. In 2007, the D.C. government passed a ban outlawing handgun ownership even for purposes of self-defense. The D.C. Circuit Court struck down the ban, which led Judge Garland to attempt to revisit (and, presumably, overturn) the ruling. Given the importance of Second Amendment in the current political climate, it is not surprising that a Supreme Court nominee who has demonstrated antipathy toward gun rights may spark controversy. 
The Republican-controlled Senate certainly has a right to reject this late-second-term nomi­nation. The larger policy debate centers on whether the Senate should even hold hearings on the nomination, to which some Republican Senators cite the “Biden Rule” as support. 
In 1992, nearing the end of President George 
H.W. Bush’s second term, then-Senator Joe Biden, as Chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, ar­gued that if a seat on the Supreme Court were to open within the last months of his presidency, President Bush should withhold nominating a replacement and that the Senate need not con­sider a nomination if made under those circum­stances. Senator Biden proclaimed from the floor of the Senate that withholding the selection “is what is fair to the nominee and central to the process. Otherwise, we will be in deep trouble as an institution.” He explained “It would be our pragmatic conclusion that once the political sea­son is under way, and it is, action on a Supreme Court nomination must be put off until after the election campaign is over.” If Mr. Biden was sincere in wanting to show respect to a late term Bush nominee, why should the present Senate not show the same respect to Judge Garland. If there were concerns in 1992 that the nomina­tion process would be politicized for purposes of the election, why is the current climate any different? 
It is clear that the political environment sur­rounding Judge Garland’s nomination cannot be ignored. Irrespective of fault, politics presently are polarized and we are faced with what could be an ugly, combative presidential campaign. In fact, the current political climate is reminiscent of that existing when then-Senator Biden first espoused the “Biden Rule,” as he then predicted that the 1992 campaign would be “one of the bit­terest, dirtiest presidential campaigns we have seen in modern times.” Nearly twenty-five years later, we find ourselves in this same condition where application of the “Biden Rule” is both ap­propriate and prudent. 
Importantly, the philosophical balance of the Supreme Court cannot be ignored. Judge Garland is, of course, being appointed to fill the vacancy created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, a staunch conservative. It is disingenuous for Democrats to now claim that the political bal­ances of the Court should be ignored. This cer­tainly was the position of Democratic leaders Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid in their 2007 ef­fort to tank the nomination of Leslie Southwick to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. In supporting Senator Reid’s op­position to the nomination, Senator Schumer proclaimed that it was the Senate’s obligation to consider the “history behind the seat to which a candidate has been nominated,” as well as the “ideological balance within the court to which this nominee aspires.” When the composition of the choir changes, the Democrats seem to change their tune. 
Would it be politically expedient for Senate Republicans to at least hold hearings and seri­ously consider President Obama’s nomination? Perhaps. But it is of far more importance that the balance of the nation’s highest court be respect­ed. The fact that President Obama could have appointed a far more left leaning nominee, such as Justices Sotomayor or Kagan, does not justify ignoring the “Biden Rule” in this contentious political climate. A presidential election is upon us, and whoever ultimately occupies the nation’s highest office should have the right to make this monumentally important nomination. 
Jordan Ryan, sophomore resident of Lyons Hall, studies political science and peace studies along with minors in Constitutional studies and business economics. She can be reached at jryan15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The feeling of not being there 
Charlie Ducey 
English, Channeled 
Notre Dame is not a place that is easily detached from its geographic bearings. It just doesn’t make sense to imagine the University anywhere else than the capricious climate of the Midwest with Chicago looming across the flatlands of northern Indiana. The lake effect and late arrivals of spring belong to the Our Lady’s university as much as brown brick and Marian statues do. There’s a whole spatial mys­tique to the place. It’s hard to put it into words, but you feel it when you’re there. 
In what follows, though, I want to describe the rare and bizarre moments in which this feeling of being there slips away — when, for a brief, elevated instant, the dominant associations you have with a place vanish and you experience a once familiar setting anew. Gertrude Stein may have captured a similar sensation when she described her childhood home with the perplexing formulation: “There is no ‘there’ there.” 
Perhaps what she was getting at, and what I hope I’m getting at, too, are these moments when worldly concern gives way to a less inhibited form of per­ception, when what stands before you is not “that building where I have a test in two days” or “the dreaded stretch of South Quad” but verdant grass, nameless brick facade and sky. 
These are, in effect, quasi-religious experi­ences, brief flickers of transcendence, which, above all else, result in a feeling of peace. In my own life, such experiences are rare but not with­out precedent. Just this morning, as it happens, I was walking onto campus after a 24-hour-long fundraiser at the Robinson Community Learning Center — Shakespeare plays were read, donations were pledged — only to find that I was not on the University of Notre Dame campus at all, but in a field standing before a massive stone building with a billowing portrait of a priest on its southern face. DPAC was right in front of me. But I was not there. 

Admittedly, the two hours of sleep I had managed to squeeze in between a group reading of “Macbeth” and “The Twelfth Night” may well be the source of this momentary delusion. But the local cause of this experience for me carries little importance com­pared to the substance of the experience itself. 
Somewhere in his philosophical inquiry “Being and Time,” the German philosopher Martin Heidegger defines the world not as a composite set of objects but as a network of concerns projected by self-aware entities. For Heidegger, the line be­tween experiencing subject and experienced ob­ject coalesces into a unitary phenomenon he calls “Being-in-the-world.” In this view, then, DPAC is not some spatial arrangement of bricks and glass but a set of experiences and concerns I associate with the place — a screening of student films, a produc­tion of “Hamlet,” a shortcut to escape the cold. Nor am I a radically separate entity, isolated in my own private mental theater of thoughts and musings, but an incorporated member inextricably bound to be­ing in the world. 
Now, I bring up needlessly esoteric German phi­losophy because this idea of the world and myself as an interconnected network of concerns relates to the sensation I’m trying to describe (albeit in a circuitous and blundering way which testifies to the essentially ineffable/non-transferrable nature of such experiences). The feeling of not being there effects a kind of amnesia toward these concerns. All your schemes and mental designs just sort of fade out and give way to immediate experience. And, if you are constituted by your concerns, then you start to fade out, too, thinning into a pure, disinterested observer. And if that is what the world is, then the world, in such moments, fades away with you. 
Without getting too carried away with the self-abnegation bit, which sounds something like the Buddhist doctrine of anatta, I want to consider the significance of moments like these. On one hand, they can be seen as a kind of escapist flight of fancy in which we pine for the cessation of worldly con­cerns as sources of stress that dissipate into the fray of whatever we’re experiencing just then. Who wouldn’t take up the chance to forget about that up­coming deadline and bask in the sunshine instead? The whole point of these moments, though, is that we don’t choose them. They just happen. 
On the more edifying hand, then, such place-less moments can serve as reminders that whatever seemingly grand strategies or monumental worries we associate with a place like Notre Dame, they are only part of a much greater scheme comprised of the concerns of others and the powers that be (God, taxes, Middle Tennessee men’s basketball), all of which are largely beyond our own control. Despite our attempts to navigate the labyrinths in which we find ourselves, this oddly displacing sensation, the feeling of not being there, could lead us to question how many of the labyrinth’s walls which we’re con­cerned about are really worth the worry. In other words, we might consider that some of the concerns we think are there, especially in a place of relative privilege, might not be there at all. 
Charlie Ducey waxes poetic without warrant, but who needs a warrant to write poetry? He studies English and German and is in his final year at Notre Dame. Please direct fan art and gripes to cducey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
lEttEr to thE EdItor 

‘I am not a feminist’ 
“I’m not a feminist,” she flippantly stated as she took a bite of her sandwich. My friend who was sitting to her right immediately concurred with a fervent nod of her head. Before making any rash statements that I would surely soon regret, I worked to confirm the statement I had just heard. 
“Did you just say you are not a feminist?” I asked in complete disbelief. Her response was simple; she had meant exactly what she had said. She stated that she “just doesn’t care that much.” Realizing my disgust was less than effec­tive in changing opinions or keeping this topic of conversation afloat, I made a joke and changed the subject. I could not, however, completely erase my friend’s statement from my mind. This was not because it was particularly shocking or obscure; it was because it is a claim that I have heard time and time again from men and women alike. 
Stereotypes regarding the pushy, imposing demeanor of the women who so proudly deem themselves feminists have rendered bouts of dis­approval and irritated eye rolls for generations; a hasty Google search of the phrase “Feminists are annoying” renders a shocking 421,000 results. To establish this perspective in more objective terms, Merriam Webster defines the term “to annoy” as “to disturb or irritate, especially by repeated acts.” And it is true— most influential feminists adhered to this definition, relentlessly demanding change until someone finally made their requests a reality. These feminists have been, by definition, annoying—and that was ex­actly the intention. 
In the wake of so many events regarding wom­en’s rights in the past few years, it is important, even crucial, that every woman—and man, for that matter—understand why feminism is so important. It is crucial that every educated per­son does begin to care, because feminism is not simply about girl power or uniting as females or denouncing the importance of men. It is about an acknowledgement and implementation of equal rights for all people. 

Let’s begin with a topic familiar to the vast ma­jority of those reading this article: Notre Dame. The University of Notre Dame allowed women to first join an undergraduate class in the fall of 1972. Thanks to the strong voice and conviction of Father Ted and so many others who knew that women had the same right to a Notre Dame edu­cation as men, even those who now attend the University and claim they are not feminists are benefiting from the work and determination of these people. Today, female graduates from Notre Dame go on to change the world for the better, contributing to science, medicine, law, business, politics, the arts and countless other fields. 
In contrast to the thousands of females who graduate from the University of Notre Dame each year, Malala yousafzai, a Pakistani girl who is now an internationally recognized human rights activist, was shot by the Taliban for defying her country’s law prohibiting girls’ education. While there are so many people in America chiding the loud and unrelenting women who demand that the voices of the feminist movement be heard, girls such as Malala are generations behind us, still fighting for the right to learn. To deny femi­nism and all its causes and petitions today is to deny the legitimacy of Malala and the girls of Pakistan, Afghanistan and a number of other countries who are still simply asking to be recog­nized for their ability to learn and contribute. 
To sit in the classrooms of DeBartolo, Mendoza and Jordan every day and claim we are not femi­nists is to claim that we are not grateful for the privilege of education that so many girls are denied. Because of those who repeatedly, un­abashedly demanded more, who insisted that their voices be heard, asserting that the minds of women were worth developing and cultivating, the world has begun to embrace a deeper sense of equality. So today, as a proud feminist, I thank Notre Dame, I thank Father Ted and I ask all women to consider the privileges granted due to the relentless actions of past feminists. I ask ev­eryone to consider how advocating for the many causes feminism supports could allow other girls and women across the world to truly reap the benefits we as Notre Dame students so often take for granted. 
The fight for feminism is far from finished. Malala cannot return to Pakistan due to her in­sistence upon the right to education. Today in America, equally qualified women still make less money than their male counterparts. There are countless grievances that keep feminists ask­ing for more. To claim one is not a feminist is to claim that these problems are not worth fight­ing for. Every person, man or woman, should embrace the ideals that feminism represents, because they have no easy solutions; these issues require people with strong minds and voices, those who can continue to face being deemed frustrating nuisances, but who will, like the in­spiring feminists of the past, see anything less than change as inadequate. 
Ellie Welch 
senior March 4 

THE OBSERVER | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

By JOHN DARR 
Scene Writer 
“There’s one girl who lives in Carroll and her name is Sally.” 
That’s when Moby’s “Flower” thun­ders forth through the third-floor hall­way of Cavanaugh Hall. Rainbow lights dance across the walls and laughter ripples through the crowd, and most of the attendees are already in push-up position on the carpet. The infamous “Sally” exercise, like the signature yel­low tank-tops and contagious good­will, is a Third Floor Abs staple. In case any students are new, Third Floor Abs founder and “coach,” Carroll Hall Resident Assistant (RA) Carter Boyd, ex­plains the exercise for the crowd: every time the song bellows “bring Sally up,” ab enthusiasts go from a plank to push-up position; on “bring Sally down” they go back into a plank. After the exercise, which ends every session of Third Floor Abs, there’s a lot of back-patting and good-natured complaining among stu­dents. “Coach Carter, I’m dead,” groans Cavanaugh RA senior Emily Belin, who helped organize the collaborative ex­ercise event between the two dorms. But she can’t help but smile with the rest of the students as they mill about for a much-needed break after the ses­sion. The positive spirit surrounding Third Floor Abs is a product of the key elements that make exercise a force of good in the lives of those who embrace 
By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
Scene Writer 
As election season thrusts forward unapologetically — for better or for worse — it is hard not to feel the grow­ing tensions once again unzipping a rift between the American populace, one filled with the land mines that are those controversial issues we dili­gently avoid around the dinner table. As ludicrous as all election years seem to turn out, the rhetoric this time has rung particularly strange in my ears. Every word uttered seems to echo fear. 
Parallel to the increasing polariza­tion and radicalization of politics in recent years have electronic produc­ers, and particularly producers of UK bass, been more and more interested in capturing — bearing witness to, one might say – the explosive and of­ten violent atmosphere of major ur­ban centers today, which in the worst cases, mimic that worlds we would it: health and a community of support. This past Monday, I had the chance to talk to Boyd about just what makes Carroll Hall’s Third Floor Abs the force of nature it has become today. 
*** 
John Darr: How did Third Floor Abs start? 
Carter Boyd: There’s a long tradi­tion in Carroll, of “doing” abs. [It was] started by soccer player Conner Miller my freshman year and it kind of fizzled out. But every third or fourth week after hall government there would be second floor abs, and we only did it probably three or four times. One of the RAs the next year, Tim Brazleton, did it a couple times, and it kind of fizzled out after a year. But this year, it’s coming full force, better and bigger than ever. 
JD: So what’s different? 
CB: What’s different? We’re sched­uled. We meet biweekly, every Monday and Wednesday, 11 p.m. Mondays and 
11:30 p.m. Wednesdays. Last semes­ter, we were in Carroll Monday and Wednesday, but we figured we want­ed to branch out and spread Abs to the greater Notre Dame community. So we’ve been traveling on Mondays. We’ve visited eight dorms at this point and we’ll get to all the girls’ dorms at the end of the year. We do Mondays on the road and Wednesdays here in Carroll and we’re getting a great show­ing at both locations. 
JD: How’s the reception been at the 
rather only read about in dystopian fiction. 
Fitting this trend comfortably, Fatima Al Qadiri’s “Brute” dropped earlier this month quite intentionally like a bomb, squarely over the politi­cized denizens of an America in the middle of a primary season that has deepened existing animosities, cre­ated unprecedented new ones, and has notably led to the eruption of ra­cial violence at political gatherings, all as the country continues to tackle these same century-old issues. And in the tune of the candidates on both sides of the political rift, Al Qadiri’s LP sings with trauma and terror. 
The statement Al Qadiri is making here is conveyed bluntly on opener “Endzone,” which resonates with field recordings of riot police clashing with civilians, a portrait of urban volatil­ity that is reminiscent of the demon­stration and subsequent outbreak of violence that took place in Ferguson, 

dorms you’ve traveled to? And what’s needed for a great session of Third Floor Abs in another dorm? 
CB: I think it’s all about marketing. Third Floor Abs has been really lucky. Early on we filmed a short video which we were able to send out and post in our Facebook group and that got a lot of people excited. Third Floor abs was also lucky to partner with the physiol­ogy lab here on campus and there’s ac­tually a scientific study that suggests the effectiveness of Third Floor Abs workouts. That all gets sent to the girls’ dorms, the RAs and the hall govern­ments to get people excited and adver­tise the event. Then everyone shows up and has a great time. 
JD: From beginning to end, what ex­actly goes on during a session of Third Floor Abs? Is there a workout schedule that has certain exercises or does it change week to week? 
CB: I would say on the road we have a set group of exercises. We go ten min­utes. We have ten different exercises and we do thirty reps of everything. It gets the heart pumping and everyone sweating. Then we finish with post-abs fraternization where everyone gets to enjoy the community aspect of abs. 
JD: Is the session here in Carroll lon­ger or harder? 
CB: We go a little longer, closer to fif­teen minutes here with a few exercises to work some of the different muscles we’re not targeting during the workouts 
Missouri almost two years ago. 
As strong as the album may kick off, however, it must be said that the most impactful tracks on this album, unfortunately, are those which incor­porate these kinds of field recordings. “Brute” is similar in style and mood to the paranoid bass music of fellow electronic producer Untold, espe­cially on his 2014 debut “Black Light Spiral.” But while Untold’s tracks use virtually no sampling and still blister with entropic tension, the majority of the sample-less tracks on “Brute,” which amount mostly to somewhat minimalistic bass-rich instrumen­tals, do significantly less to evoke the same sense of tension and strife. In fact, for the most part, they fall flat, as they fail to fully immerse the listener in the atmosphere that the album is attempting to create. 
Overall, Fatima Al Qadiri succeeds in painting her music the right col­ors — blue uniforms, red tape, yellow on Mondays. 
JD: Have you seen any sort of impact that Third Floor Abs has had on the community of the dorm? Carroll’s cul­ture has changed a lot this year; would you say that Third Floor Abs is more a result of that change or a facilitator of it? 
CB: I would say that it’s certainly a fa­cilitator for the community. On Monday and Wednesday nights, guys after do­ing their homework are in their rooms, watching T.V. or playing videogames. It gets the guys out of their rooms, into the hallways, and after that, people are hanging around, joking, and talking about their days. It gets all sorts of con­versations going. I think that’s where the real community aspect is of Third Floor Abs. 
*** 

On the back of each custom Third Floor Abs yellow tank top is a quote from ‘Coach’ Carter that has come to dwefine the activity: “Third Floor Abs is a culture, a lifestyle, one might even call it a social experiment.” It’s quite clear that the experiment has been a success. Given the vibrancy of those who have taken it on as a lifestyle, there’s little doubt that Carroll Hall’s Third Floor Abs will be a force for good in the Notre Dame community — and in the definition of its students abdomi­nal muscles — for years to come. 
Contact John Darr at jdarr@nd.edu 
caution lines — but is less success­ful in saturating its aura with them, and the album recedes into the back­ground without music protest. “Brute” could be a warm-up listen, an initial catalyst for the bumps on your skin. But it would take a lot more to get your blood boiling. Maybe you could go watch a political debate instead. 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at        asanch11@nd.edu 
“Brute” 
Fatima Al Qadiri 
Label: Hyperdub 
Tracks: “Endzone,” “Blood Moon,” “Curfew” 
If you like: James Ferraro, Untold, Dutch E Germ 


LAUREN WELDON | The Observer 

THE OBSERVER | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

By MATHEW MACKE 
Scene  Editor 
Stephen Colbert’s first week as the host of the Late Show easily distinguished him as a different sort of late-night host… at least when compared to the existing easily-digestible major network late-night lineup. For one, Colbert interviewed major politi­cians, like Joe Biden and then-Presidential candidate Jeb Bush, and game-changing CEOs, like Elon Musk and Uber CEO Travis Kalanick, rather than just celebrities. Not even Conan O’Brien, the Harvard-educated elder statesmen of late-night, welcomed such weighty guests, let alone broached seri­ous topics with them. 
Colbert – finally having a chance to play Stephen Colbert, the person, and not Stephen Colbert, the character — had no such reservations. 
I remember watching Colbert’s inter­view with Joe Biden and feeling something. Something that I had never felt while watch­ing an interview — let alone a talk show “in­terview.” Colbert delicately coaxed the Vice President to talk about the death of his son, Beau, and his potential presidential bid. At the end of the touching interview Colbert eloquently stated, “I think that your experi­ence, and your example of suffering … and service, is something that would be sorely missed in the race. Not that there aren’t good people on both sides running, but I think we’d all be very happy if you did run … ” 
That made me pause. Not only to col­lect myself because of the segment’s heart-wrenching nature, but because of the personal aspect of the request. Colbert felt that the Vice President could bring some­thing to the campaign trail that no one else could. 
In order to understand what Colbert saw in Biden that Colbert didn’t see in anyone 
By JIMMY KEMPER 
Scene Writer 
After 16 albums and a few decades of ag­gressively stamping on the throat of conven­tional rock, as he blazed a path for punk rock with the ferocity of a napalm bomb, Iggy Pop certainly deserves a rest. But rest he does not. At the ripe, young age of 68, the former front-man of The Stooges rages harder than an Alumni kid at a St. Paddy’s Day darty on his 17th and supposedly final album, “Post Pop Depression.” 
If this is to be Iggy Pop’s last record, it’s a hell of a note to end on. Raw, fierce and un­compromising, Pop’s last stand is everything you could want out of the legend. 
“Post Pop Depression” is a rather unique album, even for Iggy. It’s been billed as a sort of sequel to his 1977 proto-punk classic, “Lust for Life.” For those who don’t know, this was one of two albums Iggy Pop recorded in Berlin with the help of the late David Bowie. 
Even if Bowie’s earthly presence is gone now, his influence lives on eternal, seeped else, it’s important to recognize one of the “real” motivators behind Colbert›s actions. 
*** 
I am a Catholic, from a Catholic family, who has gone to Catholic school off and on now for 16 years. In all that time, I’ve found that there are very few Catholic celebrities in Hollywood who make a young kid proud to be Catholic. Stephen Colbert is one of those illusive icons — «the cool Catholic.» He is unabashed about his faith, going so far as to have a “Catholic throw-down” with actress Patricia Heaton during his short time head­ing the Late Show. 
In the world of late-night television, though, what makes Colbert remarkable is not his faith, but his willingness to talk about it. 
Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel, Conan O’Brien, Larry Wilmore and Samantha Bee are all current or former Catholics. 
That’s right, there are as many as six Catholic-influenced hosts airing their shows on any gIn aninterview with NPRa few years ago, Fallon said, “I just — I loved the Church. I loved the idea of it.” But when asked if he still went to Church, he admitted, “I don’t go to — I tried to go back … I went to church for a while but it’s kind of, it’s gotten gigantic now for me.” 
Larry Wilmore still goes to church every Sunday, but even he conceded to the Wall Street Journal that “I don’t agree with every­thing the Church says or does, but I like its traditions. But then, I’ve been at odds with the Catholic Church since I was a kid.” 
Wilmore’s disagreements center around the Church’s stance on gay marriage. Samantha Bee, on the other hand, has de­veloped real antipathy towards the religious institution, boasting, “I’m a lapsed Catholic … A terribly lapsed Catholic, so it is joyful for me to [satirize the pope and the Church]. That is pure pleasure for me, I will say … 
in the bones of this album. Everything about this record, from the stellar production to the spacey harmonies to the sharp lyrics, screams of Bowie’s otherworldly touch. 
It’s haunting, especially when placed in the context of Bowie’s last album, this past January’s “Blackstar.” Like “Post Pop Depression,” “Blackstar” was designed to be a swan song as Bowie secretly suffered from cancer. While his dear friend’s final work represented that of a man accepting his fate, Iggy’s is that of a man struggling to come to terms with the inevitable. 
This fear most strongly manifests itself in the lyrics, as Pop howls that death “is a tough pill to swallow” (“American Valhalla”) and acknowledges that “time is so tight, it’s closing in” (“Break Into your Heart”). Iggy’s anxiety reaches its zenith when, during a moment of quiet reflection between tracks, Iggy repeatedly groans “I’ve got nothing but my name.” 
Death is fundamental to “Post Pop Depression,” but with it comes a chance for reflection, redemption and the ridiculous. 

I don’t have any of that Catholic guilt. I’ve worked my way through that.” 
These perspectives seem to be representa­tive of larger trends in American Catholicism. The 2014 Pew Religious Landscape study found that the number of Catholics in the 
U.S. decreased by roughly three million people when compared to their last study in 2007. While that decrease is likely in part due to the drop in Hispanic immigrants in the wake of the 2008 recession, it reveals that without an influx of immigrants to bolster the statistics, the Church in the United States is shrinking. 
The downward trend has also coincided with an increase of doubt among believers. The number of Catholics who admit to be “absolutely certain” that God exists dropped 8 percent, from 72 percent to 64 percent, while those who were “fairly certain” in­creased from 21 percent to 27 percent. 
yet, with doubt has come an increased dependency on religion for moral direc­tion. The percent of Catholics who look to “religion most for guidance on right and wrong” climbed from 22 percent to 30 per­cent. The amount who relied on science also increased, though from 7 to 10 percent. (It should be noted that most of the increase came at the expense of common sense, which fell from 57 percent to 48 percent.) 
The economic crisis did more than shake Catholics’ faith and reduce their fellow be­lievers, it also caused a ripple in their politi­cal beliefs. Four percent of Catholics, who have traditionally skewed Democratic, switched over and now lean Republican. Understandably, this transition has led to greater percentages of the faithful interested in smaller government and less environ­mental regulation. 
The two most popular Catholic social issues defy this trend, however. Support for abortion stayed firm at 48%, while 
To this end, Iggy Pop has enlisted the aid of Queens of the Stone Age’s Josh Homme. Together, Iggy Pop and Josh Homme are Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, two punk outlaws charging out in a blaze of glory. The clash of Pop’s sexualized, swirling bari­tone against Homme’s jagged guitar licks is the sonic equivalent of Ben Affleck’s Batman taking on Henry Cavill’s Superman: It’s pow­erful, awe-inspiring and just plain fun to be a part of. 
Like Affleck, Iggy should be far past his prime, but that doesn’t stop him from show­ing the world that he can go round for round with the new kids on the block. Iggy’s riotous, undying punk spirit has never been more ap­parent than on the album closer “Paraguay.” Just when you think Pop is willing to let the music die, he knocks you out with a sucker punch, screaming: “you take your m---­-f-----’ laptop and just shove it into your g----­
- foul mouth, down your s--- -heeled gizzard, you f------’ phony, two-faced, three-timing piece of turd” as Homme shreds in the back­ground. What a great note to end on. 
opponents of legal abortion rose incremen­tally to 47 percent. Acceptance of homosex­uality exploded in the opposite direction, as 70 percent of Catholics felt that homosexual­ity “should be accepted,” up 12 percent from 2007. Fifty-seven percent even admitted to being in favor of same-sex marriage. 
“I grew up Catholic, in a culture that saw homosexuals as sinners in the eyes of God. But because I went into show business, I worked with homosexuals at a very early age. I had evidence in front of me that the people I knew were good, and that was against the values of the society I was brought up in.” Apparently, “society” is coming around to Larry Wilmore’s way of thinking, at least when it comes to homosexuality. 
*** 

Colbert is an outlier among the late-night crowd. He has the liberal lean of the other hosts, but expresses religious fervor that they don’t. He will openly invite Bill Maher back to the faith one night and relentlessly attack Ted Cruz on his stance on gay marriage the next. 
The Late Show host beseeched Joe Biden to enter the 2016 presidential race because he identifies with him. Both lean Democratic, support gay marriage and are open about their faith. They are representative of a new movement within Catholicism. The same movement that Pope Francis has helped publicize all over the world. American Catholics may be shrinking in number, but they are focused less on social issues and more on faith. 
There may be fewer Jimmy Fallon’s and Samantha Bees filling the pews every Sunday, but there are certainly still believers like Colbert. At least, that’s what late-night TV tells us. 
Contact Mathew Macke at         mmacke@nd.edu 
“Post Pop Depression” is so much more than just Iggy Pop’s swan song though. It’s the passing of Hades’ torch to Josh Homme, a hellish, one-of-a-kind tribute to David Bowie and the screaming, final shot of punk’s flare gun against the cold night of corporatism. Iggy Pop’s final album kicks butt, and that’s just the way it should be. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at                                 jkemper2@nd.edu 
“Post Pop Depression ” 
Iggy Pop 
Label: Loma Vista Recordings 
Tracks: “Paraguay,” “Gardenia,” “Sunday” 
If you like: Lou Reed, David Bowie, The Clash 


LAUREN WELDOM | The Observer 



croSSword | WILL SHORTZ 


JuSt Add wAtEr | JOHN RODDy & ERIC CARLSON 
Sudoku | THE MEPHAM GROUP 

FlInG by SPrInG | RILEy MCCURRIE horoScoPE | EUGENIA LAST 


Happy Birthday: Balance, integrity and the ability to see both sides of any situation you face will be essential. your focus should be on getting along and working with those who are trying to bring about the same reform as you. Deals can be made, but only if the end result promotes equality. Protect your physical and emotional well-being. your numbers are 9, 14, 16, 21, 27, 33, 46. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Accept the inevitable and put your energy into something you can get concrete results from. your fortitude and quick mind will help you reach your goal and dodge anyone trying to get in your way. you deserve to be rewarded. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An opportunity must not be disregarded just because it comes from an unusual source. Take advantage of anything that can offer you knowledge, connections or inside information. Make love and romance a priority. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don’t feel you have to share with someone who is continually taking and never giving anything back. Protect against being used and consider how you can change your ways to better protect yourself from poor influences. you deserve better. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Embrace change instead of worrying about it. Be willing to contribute and be a part of what is going on around you, and you will be in a better position to control the outcome. A pick-me-up will enhance your attitude and your appearance. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Share your ideas and put them into play. The more intent you are, the easier it will be to turn your plans into a reality. Positive changes at home or to the way you live will attract attention. Share your feelings. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Learn through observation and try your hand at implementing what you discover into your daily routine. Taking better care of your health will make a big difference to the things you can do in the future. Get moving and get fit. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Take a stance on what you want rather than giving in to someone who doesn’t think the same way as you. Keeping the peace is fine, but not when it causes agitation and stress. Showing a little strength could have a positive impact. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll face some opposition, but as long as you feel good about what you are doing, you should move forward. your intuition will not let you down and will help you make crucial decisions that can influence your personal life. Love is encouraged. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Rely on your own initiative and information to get your ideas up and running. Protect against loss, theft and poor investments based on someone else’s get-rich-quick schemes. Look for positive changes and discard what isn’t working for you. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make a couple of personal alterations to the way you look or how you live and you will enjoy the outcome. Spending time with people who can open your mind to new ways of doing things will encourage positive lifestyle changes. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Fix anything that has been slowing you down. Making sure that your world is running smoothly will help you make your way to a better future. Embrace new possibilities and enjoy yourself. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you’ll be tempted to do things that may put you at risk physically. Choose your activities carefully and stay prepared in order to avoid a setback. Being honest about what you are capable of doing will help you achieve success. 


Birthday Baby: you aim for perfection, uniqueness and loyalty. you are relentless and courageous. 
JumblE | DAVID HOyT AND JEFF KNUREK 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


To
 receive The Observer in your home, complete the form below. Make checks payable and mail to: The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556


 Enclosed is $130 for one academic year


 Enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


Name 
Address 

City State Zip 

SPortS AuthorIty 
Mid-majors hurt by tournaments 

Alex Carson 
Assistant Managing Editor 
In a year where we’ve seen so much parity at the top, so many upsets across the board and a record number of double-digit seeds winning in the NCAA tournament, it looked like a perfect year for Valparaiso and Monmouth to make deep tournament runs, the kinds that could have put them aside George Mason, the truest underdog to reach a Final Four. 
And ignore the error the selection committee made by putting Vanderbilt and Tulsa in over Valparaiso and Monmouth — yeah, it was far from the right call, but it should’ve never come to that. 
Because the Crusaders and Hawks should’ve never had to prove one more time they were the best teams in their conference. 
you see, that’s because 18- or 20-game, season-long samples tell you a lot more about the relative quality of teams than a two-or three-game conference tournament does. And the argument that follows is a nor­mative one — I believe small conferences should be making every attempt to send its best team to the tournament, not simply the one that gets hot for a few days in March. 
Don’t believe me? Just look at the results this weekend. 
Of the nine mid-major schools seeded No. 10 or higher that won a game in this tournament, six of them — Hawai’i, Wichita State, yale, VCU, Stephen F. Austin and Little Rock — were outright or co- regular-season champions in their conference. Another two, Northern Iowa and Gonzaga, were No. 11 seeds, theoretically bubble teams given their résumés. 
Only Middle Tennessee State, a No. 15 seed that pulled the shocker of the tournament, was a school that came out of nowhere to get its upset win in the first round. 
Weird then, in a year where so many upsets occurred in conference tournaments, that the teams that were really good during the year, well, had the most success with wreaking havoc in the NCAA tournament. 
My parents are youngstown State alums, and I grew up in Indianapolis watching Butler, so I’ve always got a keen eye on the Horizon League. And it wasn’t even close: Valparaiso was hands-down the best team in the league. They went 16-2 in conference play and won the regular-season crown by three games. 
But when March hit, the Crusaders were bounced by Wisconsin-Green Bay in the semifinal of the Horizon League tournament. All the work they did over the 18­game schedule straight down the drain on a neutral site, overtime loss to a team it beat twice during the regular season. 
Why? 
Of course, in past years, Valparaiso probably would’ve been fine. Before this season, the Horizon League played its conference tournament on campus sites, with the highest-seeded team hosting semifinals and the champion­ship. The Crusaders would’ve been at home, rather than in dull, lifeless Joe Louis Arena in Detroit, and that prob­ably would’ve gotten them the bounce to secure a win in regulation. 
But this wasn’t past years, and Wisconsin-Green Bay had the honor of being sacrificed to No. 3-seeded Texas A&M on Friday instead. 
A couple weeks earlier, the league had a Crusaders team fully capable of being this year’s Cinderella story. And they threw it away because of the insistence on having a con­ference tournament. 
Which is what makes the Ivy League’s decision to move to a four-team tournament all that more maddening to me. The conference has always held a special place in my heart for its “14-game conference tourna­ment,” because it’s so simple: Be the best over the long run, and you’re probably the team deserving of a spot in the NCAA tournament. 
And I get why conferences go the tournament route, I do. Not only do these conference title games bring in revenue and produce exposure, but it’s also about the coaches whose teams finish second, third or fourth in the regular season: They want another chance at it. 
At the end of the day though, think about it: you probably didn’t watch Wisconsin-Green Bay down Wright State to earn its bid in the NCAA tourna­ment a couple weeks ago. 
But I’m willing to bet you watched Stephen F. Austin, yale or Little Rock last week. 
Small conferences should give their best teams the chance to shine on the largest stage. Even if it means giv­ing up their precious league tournaments. 
Contact Alex Carson at  acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Smc lAcroSSE | OHIO NORTHERN 10, SMC 7 
Belles suffer road loss against Polar Bears 
Observer Staff Report 

Saint Mary’s suffered its third loss of the season Saturday, falling on the road to Ohio Northern, 10-7. 
The game got off to a quick start as the Polar Bears (2­
4) scored first before Belles sophomore midfielder Clare Theisen responded just three minutes later to pull the game back to a 1-1 tie. 
However, Polar Bears fresh­man midfielder Alexandra Miller went on to score three unanswered goals, two of which were free-position goals, to give Ohio Northern a lead it would not relinquish. The Belles (2-3) kept fight­ing, however, and pulled the game closer following a goal by freshman midfielder Kate Kelly. 
Following another goal by the Polar Bears, Belles cap­tain and junior goalkeeper Shannon Weyer, who had giv­en up five goals and had made only three saves in the game, was replaced with freshman goalkeeper Cara Givens. The Belles then conceded another goal before the end of the half, giving the Polar Bears a 6-2 advantage at the break. 
The Belles struggled to take advantage of the Polar Bears’ mistakes, as they failed to capitalize on the four free-po­sition shots they were given or take advantage of the 17 turn­overs by Ohio Northern in the first half. 
The Belles were able to turn the game around in the second period, however, especially on the offensive side of the ball, as they outscored the Polar Bears five goals to four. Theisen scored three of those goals, one of which came on a free-position shot. The other two goals were unassisted, which was a trend for the Belles as five of their seven goals in the game were scored without an assist or on a free-position shot. Sophomore attack Hanna Makowski scored one goal, but the Polar Bears answered with two additional scores of their own. Kelly capped off the Belles’ tally on the day by scoring with eight minutes left in the game, bringing the game to a score of 10-7 in favor of Ohio Northern, which was where the game stood until the final buzzer. 
Although they suffered the loss in the contest, the Belles found themselves led by the impact play of Kelly and Theisen. Kelly added two goals to her season total, giv­ing her 14 on the season, and she picked up six ground balls and six draw controls over the course of the game. Theisen, on the other hand, scored four of the team’s seven goals, mak­ing her the team leader in that category for the year with 16. 
In their next game Tuesday, the Saint Mary’s is set to host Elmhurst. The Belles last took on the Bluejays (1-2) in 2015, but they struggled in the con­test and fell by a large margin, 14-5. 
Then, on Thursday, the Belles will play another home game, this time hosting Illinois Tech. They have had great suc­cess against the Scarlet Hawks (4-2, 2-1 MWLC) in the past, defeating them 16-4 and 14-2, respectively, in each of the last two seasons. 
The Belles will face off against the Bluejays at 5 
p.m. Tuesday and the Scarlet Hawks on Thursday at 5 p.m. Both games are scheduled to be played on the Holy Cross College south field. 

Smc SoFtbAll | WHEATON 6, SMC 1; WHEATON 2, SMC 0 
Saint Mary’s falls to Wheaton in doubleheader 
Observer Staff Report 

Saint Mary’s lost both games of a doubleheader to Wheaton on Saturday, extending its los­ing streak to four games. 
In the first game, the Belles (8-5) got on the scoreboard first, as a single by sophomore outfielder Cassie young plat­ed her twin, shortstop Jamie young, in the bottom of the third inning. The Thunder (11­
3) responded with two runs of their own in the top of the fourth inning to take a 2-1 lead. 
Saint Mary’s had a chance to even the score in the bot­tom of the fifth but was un­able to capitalize. Following a two-out double by sophomore outfielder Makenzie Duncan, Cassie young singled to the second-base hole, but Duncan was thrown out at the plate at­tempting to score. 
Wheaton extended its lead to 6-1 in the top of the sixth with a four-run inning, includ­ing a three-run home run. The Belles were unable to get any­thing going offensively the re­mainder of the game, and the Thunder closed out their 6-1 victory. Saint Mary’s was un­able to convert several scoring opportunities, as they left six runners on base in the contest. Although the Thunder only outhit the Belles 9-7, they were able to score five more runs. 
Despite suffering the loss, Belles senior pitcher Sarah Burke reached an impres­sive milestone, registering the 200th strikeout of her Saint Mary’s career in the game. 
In the second game of the doubleheader, the Belles con­tinued to struggle offensively. Senior third baseman Kayla Chapman had their only hit of the night with a single in the bottom of the fifth inning. A couple of other runners made it on base, including senior captain and catcher Jillian Busfield, who drew a walk, and sophomore second base­man Kelsey Richards, who reached first on an error by the Thunder. 
However, the Belles’ defense shined in the game, despite the lack of offensive produc­tivity. With no errors on the night, the Belles were able to minimize the production of the Thunder lineup. In the first inning, they foiled a Thunder suicide squeeze attempt as Busfield tagged out the runner from third at the plate. Busfield also threw out a Wheaton run­ner attempting to steal second base in the seventh inning, ending a potential scoring op­portunity for the Thunder. 
Wheaton was able to get on the scoreboard in the top of the second inning, and the score didn’t change for the re­mainder of the contest. The Thunder scored two runs fol­lowing a base hit with two outs. Sophomore pitcher Morgan Raymer took her first loss of the year despite only giving up four hits and notching three strike­outs in a complete-game effort. 
Saint Mary’s will next play Aurora on Tuesday at the Chicago Bandits’ Stadium, a professional softball venue. The Spartans (5-5) are also coming off a doubleheader sweep by Wheaton, losing to the Thunder two days before the Thunder’s series with the Belles by scores of 9-5 and 6-2, respectively. Prior to their se­ries with the Thunder, how­ever, the Spartans had scored twenty-five runs over the span of three games. 
First pitch between the Belles and Spartans on Tuesday is scheduled for 4 p.m. 


THE OBSERVER | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


bASEbAll | NC STATE 9, ND 1; ND 8, NC STATE 4; NC STATE 16, ND 6 
ND wins first ACC game, loses series to NC State 

womEn’S SwImmInG & dIvInG | NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Irish finish season at NCAAs 

By HUNTER McDANIEL 
Sports Writer 
Though Notre Dame picked up its first ACC win of the sea­son with Saturday’s win over No. 13 North Carolina State, the Irish dropped two of three to the Wolfpack in Raleigh over the weekend. 
The Irish (8-10, 1-5 ACC) won their first conference game of the season with an 8-4, 12-inning thriller Saturday afternoon. 
After trailing 4-0 through four innings, the Irish bats ex­ploded by scoring eight runs on 16 hits over the remaining eight innings. They cut the four-run deficit in half before the start of the ninth inning, but juniors second baseman Cavan Biggio and outfielder Torii Hunter, Jr., each crossed the plate on hits by sophomore utility player Jake Shepski and senior short­stop Lane Richards, respective­ly, to extend the game into extra frames. 
The Wolfpack (16-6, 3-3 ACC) and the Irish traded score­less extra-inning frames until Notre Dame broke through with four runs in the top of the 12th, including a bases-clear­ing single off the bat of senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis. 
Irish head coach Mik Aoki said he was proud of the way his team fought back from a deficit against a pitcher who has had its number in the past. 
“I thought that was a really good effort by our guys,” Aoki said. “It would have been easy to sort of pack up our bags and go on home being down four runs to a kid who’s had as much success as (sophomore lefty) Brian Brown has had in this league. ... He handled us pretty well in the tournament last year, so to come back, chip away at him and to get through some quality arms in their bullpen — I thought that was really good.” 
Friday’s and Sunday’s games saw offensive explosions from 
N.C. State, however, as the Wolfpack picked up 9-1 and 16-6 victories for the series win. 
The “big inning” plagued Notre Dame throughout the weekend, even in Saturday’s win. A five-run seventh in­ning Friday, a four-run fourth Saturday, and both a five-run and six-run inning Sunday gave the Wolfpack 20 of their 29 runs scored in the series. 
“I think it’s what happens when you play a really good hitting team like N.C. State,” Aoki said of surrendering runs in spurts over the weekend. “When you give away as many free [walks] as we did. Whether it was walks, whether it was finding ourselves in negative counts, we just pitched it really poorly unfortunately today.” 
The five-run seventh was the highlight of Friday night’s game, but junior right-handed pitcher Ryan Smoyer kept the Irish in the game by surrender­ing just two runs on three hits through 4 1/3 innings. N.C. State did, however, force Notre Dame to use seven pitchers on the night, with the loss going to Smoyer. The Irish scored their only run of the game with two outs in the ninth inning when senior utility player James Nevant came into the game as a pinch hitter and smashed his first career home run to spoil a complete game shutout for Wolfpack junior right-hander Joe O’Donnell. 
Then, on Sunday, what looked to be a second con­secutive conference win for the Irish early in the contest turned into an overwhelm­ing victory for NC State. The Irish took a 5-0 lead into the bottom of the third before the Wolfpack plated 16 runs through the next five in­nings. Highlights for Notre Dame included a two-hit day for Kutsulis and two RBIs for freshman third baseman Cole Daily. Sophomore right-handed pitcher Peter Solomon picked up the loss for Notre Dame as he gave up three hits and three runs, including the go-ahead run in the fifth in­ning. Because NC State was up by 10 runs through eight innings, the ninth was not played. 
Notre Dame returns to ac­tion Tuesday when it welcomes the University of Illinois-Chicago to campus. 
“They’re a solid team,” Aoki said of the Flames (9-10, 2-1 Horizon). “They compete real­ly hard. Offensively they have some kids who swing the bat really well, and so we need to play well. But that’s kind of the goal every day, right? It doesn’t really matter who the oppo­nent is. We try to play as well as we can. Certainly after to­day, we want to get right back out there, get ourselves going again and try get some consis­tency built where we’re play­ing at a really high level day in and day out.” 
First pitch between the Irish and the Flames is set for 6:05 
p.m. Tuesday night at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame finished its season this past weekend with four of its members com­peting at the NCAA champi­onships at the Georgia Tech Campus Recreation Center in Atlanta. 
Freshman Ella Moynihan, sophomore Annie Crea and seniors Emma Gaboury and Lindsey Streepey represent­ed the Irish and competed against the top swimmers and divers in the country dur­ing the first two days of the championships. In the morn­ing preliminary round for the 1-meter dive, Gaboury placed 38th and Streepey finished in 41st. Then, in the 3-me­ter dive Friday, Gaboury fin­ished in 29th place while Crea placed 43rd. In the prelimi­nary round of the 200-meter freestyle, Moynihan finished in 5oth place in the event and rounded out the weekend for the Irish. 
Irish head coach Mike Litzinger said he knew some of his competitors would have to adjust mentally to compete against the top swimmers and divers in the country. 
“The NCAA swimming & diving championships is one of the toughest meets in the world ... period,” Litzinger said. “To get there takes a maximum effort, and once you are there, you have to ad­just your mentality to realize you are among the elite in the country. To experience that, and come to terms with that, is exciting and a bit nerve wracking at the same time.” 
Litzinger said he was pleased with the perfor­mance of his swimmers and divers in the NCAA cham­pionships, especially given their lack of experience. 
“I was impressed by all of our women as it was every­one’s first NCAA’s,” Litzinger said. “For the seniors, it is their last competition, and I thought that they dove well. Annie is only a sophomore, so her experience is one that will lend itself to future per­formances. As for Ella, I re­ally think she swam well as she qualified for two of the toughest events. ... She too is a first year qualifier. ... Experience is everything.” 
Litzinger said he told his team after the meet how proud he was of them and how he hoped to keep build­ing the program. 
“I told them and [diving] coach Caiming Xie that I was proud of them,” Litzinger said. “It was truly a new sea­son for everyone, and to fin­ish with four qualifiers [for the NCAA championships] was a great achievement. Our task is now to look forward and continue to build the team into one where we will have relays and more individ­uals at the meet.” 
Litzinger said his team’s overall performance on the year was strong in some ways but could be improved in others. 
“Again, it was a new sea­son for everyone,” Litzinger said. “A first year coaching staff, losing the most prolific swimmer in the school’s his­tory [in Emma Reaney] and adding the men’s team half­way through the year. I would give us an A for coming to­gether as a group, but a C in performance ... and that is a tough grade, but I expect the best from everyone, includ­ing the coaching staff.” 
When asked about the fu­ture, Litzinger said there are some key questions that need to be answered, and that he hopes his swimmers will use their experience this year to build on the future. 
“The key is where do we go from here. ... Do we stay combined or do we split?” Litzinger said. “That will de­termine how we truly move forward. Both groups have excellent recruiting classes coming in for the fall. Our women have one of the best [classes] in the country, and that will certainly help. 
“However, the measure of our expectations lie in how we train this spring, how we develop our current freshman, sophomores and juniors. There is some tre­mendous talent there, and can they take what they have experienced this year and ap­ply it?” 
Notre Dame’s men’s squad finishes its season next weekend when it sends a few members to the men’s cham­pionships in Atlanta. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | THE OBSERVER 

w bball 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 
quite a bit about the team, and it’s nice to have great basketball in the midwest. We’re really hap­py that the program has made a resurgence under [Moren].” 
Hoosier sophomore guard Tyra Buss has been the star of this year’s team, averaging 19.1 points per game. McGraw said Buss’s ability to drive to the bas­ket and get to the line will be hard to deal with. 
“Well, Buss gets to the free throw line [261] times, which is amazing,” McGraw said. “The leader on our team is about 120. She really drives the ball well. She’s on attack mode all the time. We’ve got to be alert. Our rotations have to be really good. We’ve got to be able to find her and slow her down in transition, which is really hard to do. I don’t think anyone has been success­ful at it all year long. So I think that she’s the key to their team.” 
However, McGraw added that the Hoosiers’ perimeter shoot­ing will mean her team can’t fo­cus solely on Buss. 
“It’s tough defensively when you have people who can do a lot of different things, so I think it’s going to be a real challenge for our defense,” McGraw said. “I think [Hoosier sophomore for­ward Amanda Cahill is] a really good player, she’s a little bit un­der the radar. She shoots the ball extremely well, she’s just really, really crafty. I think she does a great job in their offense. So I think they’ve got a lot of good pieces to put together. They’ve had a really good season.” 
The Irish enter the game com­ing off a comprehensive 95-61 victory over North Carolina A&T in the first round of the tourna­ment. Each of the first 20 field goals for the Irish were assisted, including eight first-half assists for junior guard Lindsay Allen. Allen said this kind of perfor­mance showed the mentality of this team. 
“It was a point for us to set the tone early,” Allen said. “We talk­ed about that before the game. I think it shows how unselfish this team is, how we are willing to make the extra pass and get the extra shot for our teammates. I think that was really important yesterday.” 
Senior guard Michaela Mabrey said that unselfish play was something that comes natu­rally to the Irish. 
“I don’t think it’s a mindset, we just do that naturally,” Mabrey said. “Our whole team is very unselfish. We are always trying to make the extra pass and get a better shot. We made our shots last night and made great passes. I think it showed up on the stat sheet.” 
Also in the Hoosier lineup is junior guard Karlee McBride, the sister of Notre Dame’s former All-American guard, Kayla McBride. 
“It is strange,” McGraw said. “Hearing the announcers say­ing, ‘McBride for three,’ brings back some good memories. I talked to her mom and dad and brother and sister last night. It was just so great to see them and welcome them back home. It’s hard to see them on the other side though.” 
“[Kayla’s] not cheering for us,” Mabrey added. 
The Irish and the Hoosiers will tip off at Purcell Pavilion on Monday at 6:30 pm. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


nd womEn’S bASkEtbAll 

Irish performance  far from complete 


Ben Padanilam 
Associate Sports Editor 
For most teams, a 95-61 win in the first round of NCAA tournament is a great start in the pursuit of a national championship. 
Not for No.1 seed Notre Dame. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said as much in her postgame press conference following Notre Dame’s win over North Carolina A&T: “I thought we played a great three quarters.” 
And that fourth quarter? 
“I thought it was re­ally careless,” McGraw said. “Sloppy and careless.” 
Sloppy and careless for the Irish (32-1, 16-0 ACC) consists of 15 second-half turnovers 
— compared to just six in the first half — and 15 second-half fouls. 
And although McGraw said she was happy with her team’s first half performance, it wasn’t exactly perfect, either. 
Sure, the offense was im­pressive, as it moved the ball effectively on its way to 20 as­sists in the first half. And yes, the defense forced the Aggies (19-12, 12-4 MEAC), a 31 per­cent 3-point shooting team entering the game, to settle for 23 3s and avoid feeding the ball inside. 
But the Aggies were able to grab 12 offensive rebounds and take a 10-2 advantage in second-chance points in the first 20 minutes of ac­tion. Considering the Irish were outshooting the Aggies 66 percent to 24 percent in the first half, their 52-24 lead could — and should — have been much larger. 
Not many teams will com­plain about a 28-point half­time lead. 
But not many teams are No. 1 seeded Notre Dame. 
The Irish were expected to come away from this game with a big victory. The 34-point margin wasn’t nearly as impressive as the 21 turnovers committed and 16 offensive rebounds allowed were alarming. 
As Lindsay Allen said just last week, the key for the Irish over the next few weeks was to “just keep peaking dur­ing the tournament” so they would be “peaking during the Final Four.” 
And in many ways, the Irish did just that on Saturday. But in others, it appeared as though the Irish took a huge step backwards. 
North Carolina A&T, as a tournament team, was not to be taken lightly. But it certainly wasn’t a part of col­lege basketball’s elite, either. yet, they gave Notre Dame trouble on the defensive glass and forced a bevy of turn­overs once they turned on the full court press. Sure, Notre Dame was never in danger of losing this one, but that only minimizes some of these rather significant weak spots in their performance. 
Because, when they do eventually square off with Maryland, South Carolina or Connecticut in this tourna­ment, these are weakness that these teams can expose. 
Maryland is the nation’s top team in rebounding margin. 
South Carolina isn’t too far behind. And Connecticut is, well, Connecticut. 
They all have dangerous offenses which capitalize on the second-chance opportu­nities they are given should you be so lucky that they miss the first time around. And they all play better de­fense than North Carolina A&T. 
In other words, the Irish won’t be able to afford the same mistakes they made in this performance because they won’t be able to cover them up with their offense. 
The Irish have one of the deepest and most dangerous squads in the country. They are one of the nation’s elite teams. But, if they want to beat these other elite teams 
— including teams like the Gamecocks and Huskies, who many consider to be better than the Irish — they have to play a great game, not a great three quarters. 
They have the talent and coaching staff to render them capable of making these ad­justments and fixing these mistakes. If they do, even the Huskies should be very afraid of the threat they pose. 
But if they don’t, the Irish will fall short of their goal yet again, and their season will feel incomplete. It will feel like their performance in to­day’s game felt: “a great three quarters.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 




get to the hole, but he was al­carson ways asking a little too much CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 of himself to hit there. But 
that aggressiveness forced a Lumberjacks were staying defensive breakdown from the poised, calm and collected in Lumberjacks, with a double-an attempt to solidify them-team trying to keep Jackson selves as the tournament’s from getting the bucket. biggest Cinderella story. Auguste had his chance on 
But then, led by junior guard the put-back — where he was Demetrius Jackson, the Irish fouled, mind you — but he turned in two minutes of bas-missed as well. ketball so many knew this Brey wanted to take advan­team was capable of doing. tage of “chaos,” he said. But 
In those final two minutes, more importantly, he kept the Notre Dame made every pos-kid who hit the game-winning session count. Literally. shot on the floor. 
There were five full pos-you see, had Brey taken a sessions in the final 120 sec-timeout to set a play up, he onds: The Irish scored on all likely would’ve taken Pflueger three of theirs and held the out of the game for sopho-Lumberjacks scoreless on their more forward Bonzie Colson. two. Needing a bucket, Colson 
The funny thing? Jackson would’ve been a much better and the Irish could have con-choice to have in than Pflueger, tinued that panicked-looking who hadn’t scored a field goal performance they had put out since March 5, especially given over the previous seven min-Colson’s ability to thrive in the utes. But they didn’t. lane. 
Every move down the stretch But he didn’t take that time-was with purpose. out. And Pflueger stayed on the 
There was the great in-court, in position to win Notre bounds play that fed Jackson Dame the game. and cut the lead to three. Then Unlike last year’s Elite Eight Notre Dame let Lumberjacks loss to Kentucky, where the senior guard/forward Thomas Irish pushed too many of the Walkup take a semi-contested wrong buttons, they pushed deep 3-pointer — and senior the perfect ones tonight. forward Zach Auguste came up And at the end of the day, with the big rebound with just that’s what good teams — led over a minute on the clock. by great players — do. They 
Irish head coach Mike Brey rise to the occasion in the final knew what he wanted: a 2-for-1. minutes, make the plays and, And the Irish got a smart one, you know, get a little bit of that when Jackson drove the ball luck any team needs to make to the hole to get to the line for a run. two with 47 seconds to play. A team of destiny? Perhaps. 
Other teams might have We’ll answer that over a panicked in that situation and cheesesteak in Philadelphia down by three, many would next weekend. 
this season. However, Kelly earlier, [we need to] har­have launched the 3-pointer 
Football 

in an attempt at glory. But not Contact Alex Carson at  announced that Wimbush ness those details on and 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 

Notre Dame on this night. acarson1@nd.edu starting job in spring ball. conscious of basically ev­would compete for the off the field and just being 
After another defensive stop     The views expressed in this working on. I think every-Regardless, Wimbush said erything you’re doing at all 
and Auguste board, Brey had a Sports Authority are those of the day is another process for me his approach to the spring times to just move forward 
timeout but chose not to use it. author and not necessarily those and my growth and develop-practices did not change and benefit your game on 
Jackson drove and tried to of The Observer. ment, and I know I gotta be with Kelly’s announcement. and off the field,” Redfield at the best of my shape at all “It might sound cliché, but said. “That’s something I times to help this team win my mindset didn’t change re-need to be a little more con-football games. Everything ally from when he made that scious of and make sure that else is kinda like whatever. first announcement to when everybody is conscious of you’re going to do what you he made this past week’s [with me] being a leader at gotta do. Whenever they give announcement,” Wimbush this point.” me my chance, I’m going to said. “I prepare every day as Tranquill also figures to take advantage of it.” if I’m going to be the starter. be in the mix for a starting 
Kizer also emphasized per-That’s the only way I can go safety job as he returns from sonal growth over competi-about my business. I control an ACL tear suffered last sea­tion, but said the addition only what I can control.” son during the Georgia Tech of Wimbush to the mix gives Secondary shakeup game Sept. 20. Tranquill is this spring’s competition a In addition to the quar-not fully healed, but he said different feel than last year’s. terback position, the safety he looks forward to compet­
“The way that coach [Brian spots may be in for a shakeup ing for the starting job come Kelly] approaches every off-since key players from last summer practices. season is that there’s no po-season, Matthias Farley and “It was great competition sition handed to anyone, so Elijah Shumate, have gradu-with Shumate last year,” there’s going to be a com-ated. Two players who will Tranquill said. “We were kin-petition no matter what,” look to fill their shoes are se-da going back and forth, but Kizer said. “you know, last nior Max Redfield and junior they can obviously use me in year there was a situation Drue Tranquill. a lot of different packages so where Malik goes down, and Redfield started 11 games I presume they’ll do that the I’m asked to step in, but at for the Irish last season, same this year. Obviously, the same time, you know, I but was suspended for my role at safety will take up was competing with a great the Battlefrog Fiesta Bowl a little bit more, so I’m ex-quarterback behind me in against Ohio State for violat-cited for that. Obviously, I’m Brandon. So this is another ing team rules prior to the assuming they’ll use me in opportunity where there’s game. Redfield said he has some different packages as three guys instead of two.” moved on from that incident well.” 
The third challenger for the and is ready to be a leader for job, Wimbush, was until re-the secondary. Contact Marek Mazurek at cently, expected to redshirt “Kind of like I mentioned mmazurek@nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | THE OBSERVER 

situation, we’re gonna go 2-for-with nine minutes to play, the m bball 1.’ [Assistant coach] Martin Lumberjacks pulled right back: CONTINUED FROM PAGE 16 Inglesby was great reminding Senior guard/forward Thomas 
me before I went in the huddle Walkup drew three fouls in one 
all day. and it worked out great for us be-possession that finished with Until it mattered most. cause we wanted to be in a posi-an and-1 before senior guard Pflueger got a touch to the ball tion to have that last shot. Demetrious Floyd drained two 
and tipped in the game-winner “[Demetrius] gets to the foul 3-pointers to tie the game, 64-64. with 1.5 seconds left, sending line, sticks ‘em, great defensive It was a Floyd 3-pointer that Notre Dame (23-11, 11-7 ACC) possession. Zach got that re-pushed the Lumberjacks ahead past No. 14 seed Stephen F. bound, I looked up, 20 seconds with 3:35 to play, setting the Austin (28-6, 18-0 Southland), [left]. Someone yelled, ‘Call stage for the game’s finale. 76-75, and into Friday’s Sweet 16 timeout,’ I said, ‘Shut the hell up. Pflueger’s tip-in to win the in Philadelphia. We’re not calling timeout.’ We’re game will likely overshadow 
“I just saw the ball come off gonna play ‘cause you wanna strong performances from and I just attacked it and luckily take advantage of a little chaos Beachem, who followed a per-it went in,” Pflueger said. and because of chaos, we were fect shooting night Friday with 
“I just wanted to attack, be able to get the tip.” a 15-point game Sunday, and se­aggressive and try and get it up Once the Lumberjacks got nior forward Zach Auguste, who on the rim and make a shot,” ahead 73-70 with 3:35 to play, notched his 21st double-double Jackson said. “That’s why you’ve Stephen F. Austin went to a pat-of the season with 16 points and got a team. My teammates were ented Brey tactic: The burn. 15 rebounds, including a few big able to get there.” And while it shortened the boards down the stretch. 
“I can’t thank Rex enough for number of possessions left, it For Beachem, who struggled finishing that,” Auguste said. also slowed the pace of the game in the tournament last year, “The ball was missed, I went — one that had become frantic succeeding this time around is up, was aggressive on the glass, during a 20-8 Lumberjacks run special. tried to draw a foul and got some that swung a seven-point Irish “It’s meant a lot,” Beachem contact, missed my layup. Then lead into a five-point deficit. said. “[I’ve] just really been I fell, and I just see the ball go Notre Dame’s defense re-blessed with the opportunity to through the net and I look and sponded though, giving up play in the NCAA tournament it was Rex, the one that tipped it just two points on Stephen F. again after everything that I in, and I couldn’t believe it. Austin’s final four possessions. went through last March and 
“ … Rex had to remind me we “We may not be a great de-blessed to be able to perform at had to play some defense, there’s fensive team overall — or some this level.” still some time left. We got back people may say that — but just Auguste deflected credit for in it and then they miss the shot getting timely stops,” junior for-yet another double-double, say-and it was the game.” ward V.J. Beachem said. “When ing Sunday’s performance was a 

“When I saw it go in, I just we need to, we always feel like team one. think I blacked out,” sopho-we can rely on our offense. So if “I gotta give a lot of credit to onto the next play really quick.” The five points were the final more guard Matt Farrell said. “I we can get stops, it makes every-my teammates, my brothers,” With the win, Notre Dame of the night for Beachem, who jumped up and [sophomore for-thing easier.” Auguste said. “They distributed will make back-to-back Sweet 16 led all scorers with 18 points on ward Martinas Geben] caught It set the stage for Jackson, who the ball very well.” trips for the first time since 1979, a perfect 7-for-7 night from the me.” was aggressive all night, throw-Notre Dame handled Stephen when head coach Digger Phelps’ field. 
“Rex plays volleyball in the ing down a vicious dunk in the F. Austin’s pressure well, turn-Irish capped a run of six straight “All of them were open shots, summertime, so he was play-second half, to push the issue on ing the ball over just four times trips to the regional semifinals. so we just had great movement, ing some volleyball on the back-the final two offensive posses-in the first half en route to “As a senior, a lot of questions and the guys found me when board,” Jackson said. sions to ensure the Irish weren’t a 42-41 halftime advantage had been raised, ‘How are you I was open,” Beachem said. “I 
For Irish head coach Mike going home this weekend. and 13 times overall — the guys gonna come back from last was just able to step up and Brey, the final minute of the “[I was] just really deter-Lumberjacks forced the most year? What are you gonna do knock them down.” game reflected lessons learned mined, wanted to bring a sense turnovers per game in the NCAA from last year?’” Auguste said. The Wolverines answered to in Notre Dame’s 68-66 Elite of urgency, play with heart, play this season. “Everybody talks about the past. close the Irish lead to 64-61 and Eight loss to Kentucky last year. with passion and give it all I “They were a great defensive … Really just being a part of this again to cut it to 66-63, but it 
“We had a similar situation in had,” Jackson said after finish-team and they like to turn peo-legacy and this tradition and was Notre Dame’s defense that the Kentucky game and we set ing with a team-high 18 points. ple over” Jackson said. “I think trying to make a run has been stepped up, forcing a 3-point up for a 2-for-1 and we didn’t do When Notre Dame opened we did a solid job handling the amazing.” miss from Wolverines junior it,” Brey said. “We said after that up a little breathing room pressure. We had turnovers here The Irish move on to play guard/forward Zak Irvin in the game, ‘Any time we have that by way of a seven-point lead and there but we really moved seventh-seeded Wisconsin closing seconds that secured 
on Friday — but they aren’t the Irish win. content with simply going to As the Irish trailed by dou-Philadelphia. ble digits at halftime, Brey 
“It’s a great feeling,” Beachem launched into a spirited half-
said. time speech. “But we’re not done yet.” “[The] conversation started Notre Dame 70, Michigan 63 nice and calm, and then I just Sunday’s magic almost nev-started to lose it a little bit,” Brey 
er had the chance to happen said. “As far as, ‘I love you. you’re though. The Irish trailed 11th-great guys, you have done ev­seeded Michigan (23-13, 10-8 erything we’ve asked, but either Big Ten) by 12 at the half, 41-29, you’re gonna be a little tough-staring the prospect of a first-er or this is gonna be another round exit to a rival right in the North Carolina game all over eyes. again. But everyone’ll pat you 
With a strong start to that on the back because you’re nice second half, however, the Irish guys and you get good grades.’” quickly closed the gap: They It worked, as the Irish held tied the game at 48-48, and in Michigan to just 22 second-half the four minutes Friday night, points to advance to the second the game was knotted up, 59-59. round. 
Winning time. “Everyone was communi-
The question was simple: Who cating with each other, our would step up? Would he be switching was better, our over-from Michigan or Notre Dame? all on-ball defense was better,” 
The answer came by way of freshman guard Rex Pflueger junior forward V.J. Beachem, said. “And I think the inten­who hit a 3-pointer and followed sity that Coach installed in us it with another bucket to put the at halftime really pushed us Irish ahead 64-59. They would forward.” never trail from there in a 70­63 win Friday night in the first Contact Alex Carson at  round of the NCAA tournament. acarson1@nd.edu 




THE OBSERVER | mondAy, mArch 21, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
mEn’S bASkEtbAll | ND 76, STEPHEN F. AUSTIN 75 
ND earns Sweet 16 
berth for second 
straight season 
By ALEX CARSON 
Assistant Managing Editor 
BROOKLyN, N.y. — Sixth-seeded Notre Dame was in a bind Sunday afternoon at Barclays Center. The Irish were down 75-70 to No. 14-seeded Stephen F. Austin with two minutes to play, searching for someone to save their season. 
Junior guard Demetrius Jackson hit a layup with 1:34 left, drained two free throws with 47 seconds to play and af­ter the Irish got a third succes­sive stop defensively, looked to win the game for Notre Dame. 
He drove, with the game on the line, but his wild shot didn’t come close. Senior for­ward Zach Auguste, who was a perfect 8-for-8 from the field, grabbed the rebound and tried for a put-back, but he too was unable to get the job done. 
But there stood freshman guard Rex Pflueger. 
The 6-foot-6 native of Dana Point, California, didn’t score 
see M BBALL PAGE 15 

By the tip of a finger 

Irish players step up with game on the line 

Alex Carson 
Assistant Managing Editor 
BROOKLyN, N.y. — I thought Notre Dame was done. 
Under the pressure of the NCAA tournament and the bright lights of New york, the Irish were wilting. In the mat­ter of seven minutes, sixth-seeded Notre Dame’s 62-55 lead turned into a 75-70 deficit. 
And just two minutes remained. 
For 31 minutes Sunday, the Irish had handled pretty much whatever 14th-seeded Stephen 
F. Austin threw at it defen­sively, but in that seven-minute stretch, it was going downhill. 
There was freshman guard Rex Pflueger getting called for a charge on an out-of-control drive, junior guard Steve Vasturia missing a contested layup trying to do too much and three turnovers in a nine-possession stretch. 
All the while, the 
see CARSON PAGE 14 
nd womEn’S bASkEtbAll 
Irish host Hoosiers with Sweet 16 berth on the line 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
Sports Writer 
Top- seeded Notre Dame will take on in-state opponent and ninth-seeded Indiana for a place in the Sweet 16 in Monday’s NCAA tournament second-round matchup. 
The Hoosiers (21-11, 12-6 Big Ten), in their first NCAA Tournament appearance since 2002, earned their second ever tournament win when they de­feated Georgia 62-58 at Purcell Pavilion in the Round of 64 on Saturday. Hoosier head coach Teri Moren’s program ended the regular season on a high, winning seven of its last eight games. Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said Moren’s success in just her second year with the program was ex­tremely impressive. 
“She’s done a fabulous job,” McGraw said. “I think that’s a huge turnaround, to come in fourth in the conference after just her second year. We see a lot of the players who go there so we know 
see W BBALL PAGE 13 

FootbAll 

Quarterbacks discuss battle  
By MAREK MAZUREK 
Sports Editor 
As Notre Dame enters spring practice, all eyes will be on the three quarterbacks competing for the starting job: Senior Malik Zaire, ju­nior DeShone Kizer and soph­omore Brandon Wimbush. 
“Spring ball is going well,” Wimbush said. “It’s a time for the three guys who are the helm to compete for job and see how that goes.” 
Kizer started 11 games for the Irish last season, going 8-3 after opening-day start­er Zaire injured his ankle in Notre Dame’s second game against Virginia. 
Nearly six months after his surgery, Zaire said he is al­most back to one hundred percent. 
“I’m getting there, pretty much there right now,” Zaire said. “[I] continue to rehab like I’m supposed to and feel­ing good. I’ve been practicing full-fledged, so that’s always a good sign. ... I’m still working on my mobility, getting my range back. Strengthening up the tendons and the things I got injured, so it’s ahead of schedule. I’m doing good. I’m feeling good.” 
Zaire was the clear-cut starter going into last season, but now finds himself em­broiled in yet another battle for the starting quarterback job. The Kettering, Ohio, na­tive said he believes he is the best quarterback on the team, but plans to focus on improv­ing himself rather than wor­rying about the competition. 
“you just really wonder what it’s going to take to fi­nally convince people enough that I’m able to do the job,” Zaire said. “Like I said, I don’t make decisions so I just keep­ing balling and doing what I gotta do, and that’s being the best in the country every time I gotta be out there and prov­ing that to myself. I know I’m a championship quarterback. That’s something that we’re 
see FOOTBALL PAGE 14 





