The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 78 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Galvin speaks on leadership, management 
Dean of the College of Science distinguishes between two fundamental aspects of professionalism 
putting together a team of given to you by the people they have vision and passion. went through that time, i re-

By EMMA BORNE 

news writer people, optimizing their you’re leading.” galvin said she learned the alized … i had to understand 
skills to accomplish a task, galvin said she wanted to importance of having deeply why i was doing it and what i 

Throughout her profession-and your job is to assemble make clear that being a leader rooted values from an expe-thought would be a success­al experience in academia, in-and direct the team,” she said. is not the same as being a good rience she had while working ful life. and in deciding that, dustry and government, mary leadership, on the other person, though there are good at bell laboratories. galvin i became very rooted in doing galvin, dean of the college hand, stems from a trusting leaders. a good leader, galvin said she took nine months off things because i wanted to of science, said she realized relationship, galvin said. 
work while she was pregnant because i thought they were each sector confused leader-“a commander commands 
and after giving birth to her right, because they met my 

ship and management. galvin their power, a leader receives 
spoke on this confusion in it, and to me that’s the real 
a lecture Tuesday night that difference,” galvin said. “if 
was a part of the inaugural you are a leader, truly leading 
living legends of engineering people, your power is com-
leadership lecture series. ing from them. … as a leader 
galvin said leadership and management are fundamen­tally different because man­agement is goal-oriented organization. 
“i see management as be­ing in a position where you’re you have to have followers, and [your power] is not com­ing just from your authority over them — that’s command, many times it can be man­agement — but to really be a leader, its something thats said, comes from within be­cause they are rooted in who they are and what they be­lieve in, they have the trust a respect of their followers, and 

son. her colleagues, galvin 
said, said they respected her 
decision, but that a decision 
like that ended a woman’s 
career — they wanted her to 
leave. galvin said she decided 
that was not an option. 
“i didn’t give up, and i stayed in,” galvin said. “i published some great work that year, and they decided that i didn’t need to leave. i became a dis­tinguished member. but as i 
values.” 
galvin said an important 
question to ask of yourself, as 
a leader or a manager, is, what 
is best, not for myself, but for 
the organization? galvin said 
you need to be able to answer that question and ultimately, be able to stand behind the answer. 


Contact Emma Borne at  eborne@nd.edu 


Judicial council announces three campaign tickets 

Observer Staff Report 
The Judicial council an­nounced three tickets for the upcoming student govern­ment elections for the offices of president and vice presi­dent for the 2016-2017 term, set to take place Feb. 10. 
Three tickets gathered the necessary 700 unique signa­tures to make the ballot: ju­niors dominic alberigi and Jennifer cha; juniors louis bertolotti and elizabeth Fenton; and junior corey robinson and sophomore rebecca blais. 
a debate between the three candidates is set for Feb. 8. if no ticket receives a major­ity of the vote, a run-off will take place between the top two vote-getters. should a run-off election occur, a sec­ond debate between the re­maining candidates is set for Feb. 14, with a final election to take place Feb. 15, accord­ing to the Judicial council’s website. 
The winning ticket will take office april 1, succeed­ing current student body president bryan ricketts and vice president nidia ruelas. 
The bertolotti-Fenton campaign emphasizes trans­parency, deliverability and unity, according to official platform materials. 
bertolotti and Fenton in­clude creating an accessible professor review system, improving wi-Fi service and celebrating a “hey day” the 
see TickeTs PAGE 3 



Speaker brings awareness to crime of stalking 

By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
associate saint mary’s editor 
debbie riddle spoke Tuesday evening at rice commons about the crime that took her sis­ter’s life: stalking. as a national speaker for stalking awareness, riddle shared her sister’s experi­ence and the steps she has taken since to prevent such as story from repeating itself in a lecture sponsored by saint mary’s belles against violence office (bavo). 
riddle said 7.5 million people in the united states experience stalking, but many cases are not reported. 
“The majority of stalking hap­pens between the ages of 18 to 24, the college population ... and the majority of victims know their stalker,” riddle said. 
debbie riddle’s younger sister, peggy klinke, met a man in 1998 
see sTalking PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 5 FooTball PAGE 12 women’s baskeTball PAGE 12 




Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


What was your favorite birthday party theme? 

Maddie Gaugler 

Erica Siatczynski 
sophomore 
sophomore 
pasquerilla east hall 
badin hall 
“roller skating party.” 
“cinderella theme” 

Tess Swain 

Jeff Agar 
sophomore 
senior howard hall 
alumni hall “‘Finding nemo’ party, so i’m 
“Thomas the Tank engine.” excited for the ‘Finding dory’ movie.” 

Sophie Buono 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“little mermaid pool party.” 


Flor Flores 
senior 
lyons hall 
“i had a superhero party and dressed up as the hulk.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
catherine owers Zach klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale ben padanilam alex winegar victoria llorens 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
susan Zhu kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Blood Drive Mindful Meditation Lecture: “Centuries Benefit Dinner for Men’s Basketball vs. 
kathryne robinson bianca almada 
Rolfs Sports Coleman-Morse of Shakespeare” Christian Refugees Wake Forest Recreation Center Center Hesburgh Library Remick Commons Purcell Pavilion 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 4 p.m-5 p.m. 7 p.m-9 p.m. 1 p.m-3 p.m. 
Corrections 

Eat a healthy meal All students, faculty Michael Witmore will Funds raised for The Irish take on the 
The observer regards itself as before donating. and staff may attend. present. persecuted Christians. Demon Deacons. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“The Life of Jesus: “Iron Sharpens Iron” Graduate Student 27th Annual Student La Misa en Español 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Christ for the Curious” Christian Fellowship Mass Film Festival Dillon Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Center Center Heart Arts Center All are welcome to this 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
7 p.m.-8 p.m. 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. mass celebrated in 
we can correct our error. 

In the St. Andre room. Student-led worship. Seating will be reserved. Student-produced films. Spanish. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | The observer 

Salon Series continues in Snite Museum of Art 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
once a month, notre dame students, staff and faculty gather in the snite museum of art after hours to analyze a se­lected piece of artwork. aimed at creating a relaxed space to view and discuss the works in the museum, the snite salon series began in January 2013, bridget hoyt, curator of educa­tion and academic programs for the snite museum, said. 
“The purpose is to give people the opportunity to dialogue with each other and dialogue with a work of art. … it’s an opportunity to get to 
Stalking 
conTinued From page 1 
when she was 28 years old and taking college classes to prepare for medical school. Three years of an emotionally and psycho­logically abusive relationship followed, riddle said. 
riddle said she began to see negative signs in the relation­ship when the man showed up uninvited at a family function. 
“if you have brothers and sis­ters, trust your guts,” riddle said. “because my gut feeling when i saw that man standing on the front porch of my mother’s house, and i turned and saw the look on my sister’s face, i knew in an instant this was not a good know works of art in the snite’s collection in a pretty intimate way, to build a relationship with a work of art over time and in conversation with oth­ers,” she said. 
The group focuses on a sin­gle work in the snite’s collec­tion each month, hoyt said. 
“people can take a slow and long look at one work of art,” she said. 
“Through conversation, people end up with a differ­ent understanding of the work than they started with.” 
hoyt said she leads the pro­gram every month but tries to remove herself from the con­versation as much as possible 
thing.” 
when peggy ended the rela­tionship, the man proceeded to stalk her, riddle said. 
riddle said the stalking expe­rienced by peggy began as non­criminal behaviors, including excessive phone calls and text messages, surveillance by the ex-boyfriend outside of peggy’s work and a surprise proposal. These behaviors escalated over time, with the man spray-paint­ing a crude phrase about peggy on her mother’s garage doors, hanging up inappropriate post­ers about peggy around town and committing arson by burn­ing down peggy’s boyfriend’s house. 
“when you see how the pat­tern tends to build and escalate 
paid adverTisemenT 

in order to allow the group to come to its own conclusions. 
“i encourage the conversa­tion to be driven by the view­ers’ observations,” hoyt said. “The more diverse the group, the more interesting the conversation.” 
The series attracts a wide array of undergraduate and graduate students from an ar­ray of majors and professors from all disciplines, hoyt said. 
catherine mary barr, a freshman engineering major, said she attends the event for the intimate setting in which to view the paintings and for the chance to learn from others. 
over time, and how that pat­tern, the one specific reason for those behaviors is to induce fear in someone, that’s when it can be identified as illegal,” riddle said. “stalking is illegal in all 50 states. it is a crime.” 
riddle said despite numerous reports of the man’s behaviors, the police told peggy to wait until ‘something happens.’ eventually a trial was scheduled and then postponed for five to six months. For her protection, peggy and her boyfriend left new mexico to hide in california. 
on Jan. 18, 2003, three weeks before the trial, the man found peggy, riddle said. 
“when the police show up at 10 p.m. on a saturday night in my mother’s neighborhood, it is 
“if i were to just come here on my own and look at them, i would not get the rich insight that the other students bring to it — especially students who take art history or art in gener­al, who know all the different techniques and uses of light­ing,” barr said. “every time i come here, i walk away with really deep insights, not only on the painting but also on the time period, the artist and the theme and messages.” 
hoyt said the series began as a way to engage students with the museum, but the snite also holds other events to help immerse students in the museum. 
not good news,” riddle said. “all i needed was to see the shoulder of the law enforcement officer standing on my mother’s porch to know that my sister was dead. That’s all i needed to see.” 
law enforcement told riddle that peggy was trapped in a clos­et when the ex-boyfriend shot her in the back of the head and then shot himself, she said. 
“being the oldest, i became the family representative,” riddle said. “people want to know what happened, but no­body wants to ask. as people were coming in and out of the house over the next several days, i began telling that story and what had gone on and what had transpired. i realized this telling of the story was making me heal, just a little bit.” 
Two weeks after peggy’s death, riddle began taking steps to protect other women and men from stalking. The beginning of the process was when she contacted the direc­tor of stalking resource center. 
“six weeks into this, we have the stalking resource center, the national center for victims of crime, erin brockovich and lifetime Television, the state representative from new mexico where peggy resided, all on board,” riddle said. “we 
Tickets 
conTinued From page 1 
first monday after syllabus week, in which students would wear name tags and be en­couraged to say “hey,” in order to get to know other students, as just a few of their goals. 
The robinson-blais cam­paign emphasizes leadership, connection and service, ac­cording to official platform materials. 
robinson and blais include overseeing notre dame’s di­vestment from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, designating space in campus crossroads as a “Thinkspace” area in which students brain­storm innovative ideas and rerouting south bend public transportation lines to better cater to the needs of students, 
“we have a student advisory group that runs programming primarily for students,” she said. “we also have a group of student gallery teachers who teach other notre dame class­es that visit the museum, and we have a student collecting group that acquires contem­porary photography for the museum. ...we also do yoga in the galleries and guided medi­tation in the salons.” 
The snite salon series meets the last Tuesday of every month at 5 p.m. in the lobby of the snite museum of art. 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 
decided to do something about this, to start talking about this, to start education.” 
riddle said six months af­ter peggy’s death and after a congressional briefing in washington, d.c., January was identified as national stalking awareness month. riddle con­tinues to travel as a national speaker on stalking awareness in order to educate the general public on stalking and the re­forms necessary for the protec­tion of stalking victims. 
“The change had to come from both sides of the fence,” riddle said. “you cannot just point your finger at law enforce­ment and say do your job bet­ter. law enforcement needed to be educated, but the general public needs to be educated as well. if you cannot define what is happening to you, then you cannot define the crime, you will not report it. if law enforce­ment isn’t trained, they cannot help you. ... you can go one way. you can be angry, hateful, bitter for the rest of your life, because that’s a choice. or you can do something about this. and i de­cided i wanted to do something about it.” 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 

while not inconveniencing notre dame staff or the resi­dents of south bend, as some of their goals. 
The alberigi-cha campaign is placing a “decisive focus” on mental illness, alberigi said in an email to The observer on Tuesday evening. 
“To address this, we are committed to expanding counseling services to better include students with specific needs. other aspects of our campaign include promoting objective education on im­portant social issues, through forums or debates with promi­nent public figures, and offer­ing extra courses that align with student hobbies, from cu­linary courses to greenhouse botany,” he said. 
Editor’s note: Louis Bertolotti served as a Viewpoint colum­nist for The Observer last fall. 
paid adverTisemenT The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



By SAM FENTRESS 
scene writer 

resting next to “creed” and “steve Jobs” on this year’s shelf of academy snubs — in some cases, complete misses 
— is david o. russell’s “Joy,” the vibrant, spry comedy that found unstable critical ground in its one-month run. 
david o. russell directed “Joy,” but perhaps i should correct myself: “Joy” belongs wholeheartedly to Jennifer lawrence, who garnered her fourth acting nomination for playing the title character. 
“Joy” loosely chronicles Joy mangano’s real midlife turnaround in her attempt to patent and sell the miracle mop — a self-wringing mop that’s machine washable. The movie doesn’t make any claim to the importance of the mop, except in that it marks Joy’s decision to reclaim child­hood ambitions long suppressed by her family’s immediate needs. 
Joy’s family was a constant point of complaint for the film’s detractors. it’s true that her difficult relatives (includ­ing a smooth-singing edgar ramirez, an 
By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

in men’s fashion, the rule of thumb is fit before all else. a man looks better in a well-fitting suit of lesser quality compared too a well-made, poor-fitting suit. For 2008 notre dame alumnus and founder of chicago-based bespoke suit shop esQ clothing ge wang, sacrificing one or the other was never an option. 
“during my short stint as an attorney, i had to both invest and wear a suit ev­ery day. i soon found that i simply could not find the perfect fit. Thus, i had my first custom suit made and learned about the process that goes along with bespoke clothing. as i delved more into this world, i figured i had distinct advantages that could help myself launch a clothing brand, and it subsequently led to the founding of esQ in 2012,” wang explained in an inter­view with The observer. 
yet, esQ has far exceeded its humble be­ginnings. The business has a prominent aged but elegant isabella rossellini and an unsurprisingly crusty robert de niro) evolve little in the film, but this should be no aggravation to the audience; the re­sult is more time spent with Joy, who is nuanced and delightful at every moment. 
That said, “Joy” might not feel quite as whole as other russell films, but what it lacks in solidity, it makes up for in a string of truly great moments. russell grounds lawrence’s performance in vi­sual splendor and sonic confidence, from high-energy family-problem snowballs (song: lee morgan’s “sidewinder”) to barrel-smoking deliverance (elvis comes in with “a little less conversation”) to a 007 vent-crawling escapade (here it’s the rolling stones with “stray cat blues”). 
sure, “Joy” is messy, and that’s a nec­essary filter for trying to pick something like a best picture nominee. but “Joy” is no less messy — and messy in better ways 
— than “The big short” or “mad max: Fury road.” in fact, the film seems quite aware of its messiness and more willing to revel in a little cinematic anarchy than put on an air of perfection or prestige. 
we follow Joy through layers. by the 
boutique in the chicago loop and a slew of athlete and celebrity customers, and it’s safe to say fashion is now beyond a passion for wang. 
after graduating from notre dame, wang went on to gain his J.d. at depaul university. after only a few years practic­ing as an attorney, wang began his jour­ney into the fashion world in a transition he admits was “anything but seamless.” now that he is established, wang spends his days tailoring to the many custom­ers who come through his door. chalking his success to his meticulous process and quality products, wang explained just what sets him apart from other boutiques. 
“we do some unique things that give us distinct advantages. First, i person­ally take all measurements to ensure that there is consistency in the fit. it may seem easy to take measurements, but between our 37-measurement system and my years of experience, we guarantee the perfect fit, even for very oddly-shaped individuals,” wang said. “second, all of our bespoke end of the film, we get the sense of a pre­existing system of male manipulation and incompetency. Joy wants power and control over her dreams in a world that is not eager to hand either to a woman, even less so to a single mother whose family and debt are constantly nipping at her heels. 

so the audience takes great pleasure in knowing that no one but Joy is respon­sible for her ultimate success. not her investor/italian step-mother Trudy, not even bradley cooper’s character, whose place in this film remains its most con­fusedly contrived element. as a manager for Tv shopping network Qvc, he directs Joy to the hurdles, but she clears them alone. 
lawrence’s performance, so full of her own charm and depth, manages to dis­tract from a screenplay that is almost equally good. russell wrote it, and so the execution is that much better; scenes rhyme and resonate against each other, and russell imbues a number of visual patterns that unite the film in the explo­ration of Joy’s familiar relationships and the ways those relationships evolve or fail 
garments are handmade, from our suits to our shoes. Finally, we utilize only the best fabrics in the world, sourced primarily from the u.k. and italy.” 
Throughout his whirlwind of success, wang has stayed true to his blue and gold roots, and despite having a suit in 60 percent of all nFl locker rooms, wang gave his “most interesting customer” title to brian kelly. but kelly is not the only irishman rocking wang’s luxurious formal wear: kyle rudolph and harrison smith have both shopped at esQ. wang’s influ­ence in fashion has even spread to notre dame’s 2015 roster, as ronnie stanley, Jaylon smith and sheldon day will all be fresh to death in esQ gear for this year’s nFl draft. 
There is certainly reason for wang to be proud of his dapper irish customers, as he creditd much of his success to his time under the dome. 
“The notre dame network is invaluable. it still amazes me to this day how a simple ‘what dorm did you live in?’ leads to such to evolve through the passage of time. 
For several characters in “Joy,” this arrested development spouts from a de­sire to change but a reluctance to grow. Joy speaks and lives in the active, reject­ing passivity even if it means bumping shoulders with loved ones, rejecting and overcoming a society that not only at­tempts to foster but feeds on this kind of passivity in its women. 
The strength of that argument, all oth­er wonders aside, is what merits “Joy” a best picture nomination. with complex­ity and rigor, “Joy” depicts the moment where an individual decides to open a door and pick up a gun, and Jennifer lawrence does both of those just fine. 
Contact Sam Fentress at                        sfentres@nd.edu 
“Joy” (2015) 
Director: David O. Russell 
Starring: Jennifer Lawerence, Robert De Niro, Bradley Cooper 

quick friendships,” he said. “in both work and personal opportunities, the notre dame background is always a significant help.” 
in the future, wang aims to take his niche brand nationwide and even plans to create a women’s line. but for now, wang offered some essential advice for all col­lege students who will be busting out for­mal wear for the impending career fair tomorrow. 
“a couple quick fixes include hemming trousers to the appropriate length, just enough to cover the ankle. it will clean up the look. also, look for a more tapered leg, it adds length and height,” he said. 
a custom suit may be a bit too pricey un­til you can lock down that stellar first job (possibly tomorrow?), but splurging on formal wear is never a bad idea, and wang gives all nd friends and family 15 percent lifetime discount — go irish! 
Contact Adam Ramos at                                        aramos6@nd.edu 
SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

brevity, the soul of wit 
Martha Reilly 
news writer 

if i were to compile a comprehensive list of my worst fears, snakes would most definitely slither their way into first place, while forgetting some­one’s birthday would sit comfortably at sec­ond. hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia 
— ironically, the fear of long words — would likely also make the cut, for i frequently em­ploy abbreviations (abbreevs) in everyday conversation. 
it’s not as if i think i’m some kind of special snowflake just because i say dna instead of deoxyribonucleic acid or ac instead of air con­ditioning. my abbreevs are not commonly used or universally appreciated, so i am usually met with initial confusion when i exclaim “shal!” instead of “shalom!” or refer to a T-shirt as a “teesh.” 
people may hesitate or make fun of me at first, but soon enough they too are living lives of luxury in abbreviation nation, attempting to eliminate as many syllables as possible from any given statement. 
Talking in abbreevs is no easy task though, and it demands a bit more effort than one might anticipate. one of the main challenges people encounter is thinking quickly and shortening words on the spot, which can be a surprisingly difficult process. To mitigate this struggle, peo­ple should heed andy bernard’s sound advice and always think one step ahead, like a carpen­ter making stairs. having at least a general idea of what they plan to say can help abbreev-users sound even more smooth and effortless than they already do, for they can prevent any inci­dences of suddenly having no clue how to short­en a particular phrase. The misconception that big words are the sign of an intelligent person has g2g, because using abbreevs also requires aptitude and improvisation. 
because not everybody has perfected slang skills, i often have to launch into an explana­tion of what i meant by a certain abbreev, which usually takes enough time that it would have been faster just to say the original word to begin with. but i do not mind taking a few extra moments to help others understand the benefits of using abbreevs or maybe even con­vince them to try some out. after all, it is only a matter of time before even the most skeptical people understand that arizona is the a to Z of abbreviations. 
i’ll admit i may have taken polonius a little too seriously when he remarked, “brevity is the soul of wit,” but abbreevs have been adopted into my vocabulary for so long now, i’m not sure i can ever forsake them. For instance, i cannot even imagine sitting in the library and “doing homework,” for “doing homes” has become such a regular phrase for me. 
Those who hope for abbreviation eradica­tion will likely not see those dreams come true anytime soon, for just the other day i heard someone follow my lead and say “i have to take the elv to go do laund.” some speak words of wisdom, but i prefer aphorisms of abbreevs. 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Is income inequality that bad? 
Mimi Teixeira 
bridging the gap 

at a rally in wisconsin in July, in the earlier months of this exciting presidential race, democratic contender bernie sanders proclaimed, “The issue of wealth and income inequality, to my mind, is the great moral issue of our time. it is the greatest economic issue of our time, and it is the great political issue of our time.” based on his poll numbers and on current political discourse, many people seem to agree. even president obama has called income inequality “the defining challenge of our time.” 
however, i do not think income inequality is the big­gest issue of our time by any means. i would go so far as to say i don’t think it’s a problem at all. 
capitalism, especially unfettered capitalism, is often presented as an uncontrollable monstrosity, and the numbers seem to support that. how can one percent of the population own almost 36 percent of the country’s wealth? how is a society with both the lavishly rich and the ridiculously poor people fair or desirable? 
There are a few preliminary problems with the argu­ments of income-inequality alarmists that i would like to point out. First, the alarmists fail to determine what level of inequality is acceptable, and without a level of comparison, today’s numbers are basically arbitrary. Further, income inequality alarmists struggle to pin­point practical, nonpartisan implications of today’s level of income inequality. some will argue that income inequality causes economic instability and even reces­sions, but this is hardly a settled matter. a study by the cato institute, a libertarian organization, point out that most statistics ignore the value of government payments to the poor and increasing workers benefits that have kept reported salaries stagnant while increasing the real value of low and middle income workers’ compensation. 
but even if the statistics were correct, even if income inequality were increasing at alarming rates, it wouldn’t matter, because income inequality statistics do not give any indication of the measure the general standard of living or standard of living disparities in a society. why does it matter how much the richest person in the coun­try has, so long as the rest of the country lives comfort­ably? i do not mean to say the whole country currently does live comfortably, though the standard of living in the united states is relatively high compared of the rest of the world. instead, i mean that unless there is a direct connection between how much the rich have and the poverty level, the gap doesn’t matter. if the gap does not hurt the overall economic health of the nation or speak to the level of poverty or the quality of life of the poor, complaining that some have too much is, at best, a call for blanket redistribution for the sake of some ideo­logical definition of “fairness” and, at worst, a natural human instinct to resent the front-runners in our eco­nomic system. 
wealth is not stagnant, and wages are not the product of a zero sum game. There is much more in this coun­try to go around than there was in 1920 or even 1980. politicians who catastrophize income inequality often come up with solutions that divide the current wealth more equally, ignoring that encouraging growth instead may be the better way to help the poor and raise the real standard of living for everyone. 
in measuring inequality, doing so in terms of the standard of living is perhaps more important than in terms of income. dinesh d’souza points out in his book, “what’s so great about america,” that standard of living inequality has shrunk over time, even as such improve­ments created vastly rich people. There was a time when only the rich could afford refrigerators, phones and computers. as income inequality has grown, standard of living inequality has shrunk. Today, most working americans have the same basic appliances and neces­sities as the rich. with globalization and an increase in manufacturing technologies, products for americans of all income levels are cheaper than ever, and every in­come bracket has seen the benefits. 
The people we can thank for this, people like bill gates, steve Jobs and Jeff bezos, have become extremely rich, but they have made everyone better off. as in­come inequality grows, the tangible standard of living inequality is shrinking. people are paid the worth of what they bring into the economy, and those who make their income through honest channels contribute to the creation of wealth that works to lift up all members of our society. we should give capitalism at least part of the credit for encouraging the creation of better and cheaper technology. 
all of this begs the question: is combating income equality really our highest objective? i don’t know about the rest of you, but i would rather live in this country than the economically struggling Japan, despite their shocking level of income equality. i’d skip pakistan and vietnam as well. i’d much rather focus on our gdp growth and absolute poverty levels, which are a much better indicator of economic health. 
all of this is not to say that opportunity inequality and a lack of social mobility do not matter. however, they are not necessarily connected to income inequality. The alleviation of poverty and extension of economic op­portunity is of utmost importance. however, economic growth, technological innovation and good old-fash­ioned capitalism has done that over the past few hun­dred years far better than any redistributive program could. Focusing on income inequality doesn’t help the poor. honestly, i’m not sure what it does to help, other than rallying misguided support for certain democratic presidential nominees. 
you have probably guessed by now that i am a conser­vative. i don’t pretend that this article is unbiased, nor do i deny that conservatives and liberals have differ­ent ideological beliefs that cannot be compromised or reconciled. 
if you find any inequality in a civilized society unfair, i won’t tell you you are objectively wrong, even though i would disagree. but i would challenge you to look at statistics and consider that their only real impact is in shock value used for political purposes. i would chal­lenge you to consider what you think is fair and why. i would challenge you to consider what is really best for the alleviation of poverty and growth of social mobility in the long run. and i would challenge you to consider if bernie sanders and all these other politicians using income inequality as their rallying cry aren’t perhaps ignoring more important issues. 
Mimi Teixeira is a sophomore in Lyons Hall majoring in economics and political science. BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum together in discussions concerning public policy issues. The viewpoints expressed in this  article does not necessarily reflect the opinion of BridgeND but the individual opinions of the author. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter at @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Like Nike says, just do it 
Kitty Baker 
british invasion 

my sister recently arrived home after her first semester at oberlin college, sat down on the sofa, grabbed a cup of tea off the counter and started talking about the importance of choosing politically correct food. 
i listened as she described a recent student protest against labeling a section of the din­ing hall “asian cuisine” and offering things like general Tso’s chicken, which is obviously a fake, americanized version of actually authentic chinese food. 
as i sat there listening to her discuss what some might call a rather bourgeois protest, i was thinking all the time about what we do at notre dame, or perhaps what we don’t do. 
look, i’m not saying that we need to go out and protest the asian cuisine section in north and south dining halls (but if you want to, more power to you). i’m just saying this is an oddly quiet college campus. 
yes, we do have protests, the most obvious ex­ample being the #blacklivesmatter event recent­ly. and the protests we do have are incredibly important and should be recognized. 
but shouldn’t we be doing more? 
i get it. The notre dame bubble is a very real thing. and to be honest, oberlin has a bit of a bubble as well. That bubble can be a blessing as well as a curse. 
college is one of the only opportunities we will have to really try new ideas. This is one of the only opportunities where we are going to be able to talk about our ideas with other people who care just as much and want to discuss them with us. going to college is a privilege, and one that we are just throwing away if we don’t do the things we care about. 
so why is it that oberlin students seem to care so much about these things and notre dame students are far more willing to sit back and wait out the ride? 
many of us at both oberlin and notre dame come from similar backgrounds, and yet for some reason notre dame students, many of whom agree with oberlin students, won’t protest but will silently, and with indignation, choose to disagree from afar. your voice is never going to be heard if you don’t actually put yourself out there. 
now obviously protesting isn’t the only way to do this. doing service, being on the track team, performing in musicals and writing for The observer are all ways of getting your voice heard and getting discussions started. There are cre­ative ways of testing the status quo everywhere, so get out and do it. This is one of your only op­portunities to just do something. 
as a senior who is just about to graduate, i’ve realized the things that i have regretted are the things i didn’t do. whether i didn’t do them because i didn’t think they were cool, or i was nervous about something, or i just wasn’t in the mood, i regretted the fact that i didn’t just try. 
i regret not going to more panel events and just listening to a variety of opinions. i regret not go­ing to more protests on campus, and i regret not volunteering for things that i really believed in but was too lazy to do. 
you won’t regret it if you do it (you might re­gret streaking during the bun run, but probably not). you won’t regret the first time you get hun­gover, but you will regret not going out with your friends (unless of course you have an exam the next day, then obviously study for your exam). you won’t regret going to that protest that all of your friends don’t want to go to for various rea­sons, but you will regret not standing up for what you believe in. 
you won’t regret just living your life. sometimes that means saying no to things, but a lot of the time it means saying yes. 
Just do it. 
Kitty Baker is a senior majoring in the program of liberal studies and film, television and theatre. She is a proud Cavanaughty. She can be reached at  cbaker7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

don’t deface the irish flag 
The american flag is known both at home and around the globe as the emblem of the free world. since the time of the american revolution, men and women have laid down their lives for this flag and for the principles and american values it represents. 
There is a code of etiquette that goes along with the american flag that outlines the proper use and care of such an important symbol. The Flag code includes the statement, “The flag should never have placed on it, or attached to it, any mark, insignia, letter, word, number, figure or drawing of any kind.” 
last Friday, the notre dame right to life club staged its version of the march for life on campus. later that evening, i saw a photo on Facebook of the irish flag with the right To life club’s symbol emblazoned across it. 
i was furious. 

my anger was not directed towards the cause or the march itself, but rather towards whoever thought it was appropriate to take the flag of the irish country and its people and then deface it with a symbol. 
as with the american flag, so too have men and women laid down their lives for the irish flag and for the values and principles it represents. it is the symbol of my country, of my people and our push for independence. it is a symbol of the irish struggle for freedom and, most importantly, it is a symbol of my people’s search for peace. 
although there is no specific irish Flag code, there are certain protocols associated with dis­playing the flag, including, “The national Flag should never be defaced by placing slogans, logos, lettering or pictures of any kind on it.” 
The irish flag should not, under any circum­stances, be used as an advertising board for any cause or organization. 
if an american flag had been defaced in such a way would anyone be allowed to display it? if the right to life club had chosen to put their symbol on the american flag or if there were american flags available for purchase emblazoned with the notre dame leprechaun, would it not be a nation­al scandal? 
The irish flag is not — and never should be — viewed as a symbol of notre dame. it is the sym­bol of the irish nation and ought to be treated as such. 
Dearbhla Fay 
junior Jan. 24 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


FOR RENT 
Home for Rent, avail. 2016-2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@ gmail.com 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Try to move forward without sharing too much information with others. your challenge will be to accomplish things without interference. hone your skills and make your presentation flawless before you share. confidence will be the key to persuading others to support your efforts. invest in yourself and you will not be disappointed. your numbers are 5, 9, 17, 20, 29, 32, 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you will need to give more than your normal effort. don’t assume that those you encounter know what you are capable of doing. money can be made and a good position obtained by presenting your skills with confidence. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Just showing up and doing your thing can work wonders for you as long as you don’t let jealousy interfere. expect to face competition and prepare to learn through observation. a humble approach is your ticket to victory. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): step back and witness what’s going on around you. emotional matters will escalate, and just when you think you have something to celebrate, you’ll come up against a snag that requires additional work on your part. pay attention to detail. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): your outlook and attitude will be unique. partnerships will take a favorable turn, allowing you to resolve any issue that has been a concern in the past. romance will bring you closer to the one you love. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t fret over life’s little frustrations. embark on a new adventure that promises to help you use your talents to get ahead. discipline will result in victory, and dedication will help you maintain what you have been able to capture. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): you can have it all if you are precise, resourceful and take matters into your own hands. opportunity is knocking, and a gesture on your part will seal the deal. love, money and happiness will be the result of doing things your way. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): problems with health, friendships and domestic situations are better not discussed. you’ll have better luck researching and putting together a plan that will help you bring about positive lifestyle changes. get your personal papers in order. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Form alliances with people who can contribute something unique to a project you want to pursue. your ability to get things done and to capture the attention of individuals with clout will lead to an interesting opportunity and future success. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): don’t limit what you can accomplish by being indecisive or lazy. The more time spent improving your current living situation, the easier it will be for you to avoid anyone who is trying to meddle in your affairs. protect your assets. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): you can make a difference if you make a move. sign contracts and negotiate until you get what you want. you have plenty to gain if you take control of matters and refuse to let anyone interfere with your decision. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take note of what is working for you and what isn’t. do whatever it takes to weed out any trouble spots in your life so that you can move forward without baggage. make choices that will allow you to live life your way. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): set your sights on what you want and go after your goals wholeheartedly. The effort you put in will pay off emotionally, financially and physically. you have plenty to look forward to if you follow your heart. 

Birthday Baby: you are persistent and engaging. you are smart and comprehensive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
Want a pro to help edit/pol­ish your dissertation or other research paper? Utilize an expe­rienced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. 
Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 
Term, holidays, term, holidays, till we leave school, and then work, work, work till we die. 
— C.S. Lewis 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Opt-out contracts favor players 

Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
late last week, the new york mets re-signed out­fielder yoenis cespedes, who was one of the club’s key catalysts during its run to the world series in 2015 and, arguably, the last big-name free agent left in this offseason’s especially tal­ented class. 
cespedes’s deal is for three years and $75 million but also includes an opt-out clause, which has be­come increasingly popular in free-agent negotiations this offseason. The majority of high-profile free agents have bargained for such a clause, which allows play­ers the chance to opt out of their current contract after a certain number of years and regain their free-agent status. 
The list of notable free agents who have had opt-out clauses integrated into their deals this winter is expan­sive and includes david price, Jason heyward, Justin upton, Johnny cueto and cespedes, among others. 
historically speaking, the surge in opt-out clauses this offseason suggests a new trend in baseball’s free agency; prior to the 2014 season, only 10 players had ever signed a free-agent contract that included the opportunity to opt out early. 
one notable exception to the proliferation of free agent contracts with opt-out clauses this winter is pitcher Zack greinke, who signed a massive $206.5 million deal in early december. however, greinke’s previous contract serves as a perfect example of why so many players are now looking to take advan­tage of opt-out clauses in contract negotiations. 
in what was a rare move at the time, greinke signed a six-year contract with the dodgers in 2012 that gave him the option to re-enter free agency at his discretion after three seasons. after having an incredible 2015 season, greinke did just that and signed a new six-year contract that includes a nearly $60 million increase in value and will keep him under contract through much of his late 30s. 
in short, greinke’s experi­ence illustrates that opt-out contracts, at least in theory, clearly favor the player and not the team signing him; if the player succeeds in the first part of his contract, then he can potentially earn more money by opting out of the rest of it. conversely, if the player struggles, then he can still be assured a salary for the original length of the deal. These benefits are why opt-out contracts will likely become the norm in major league baseball moving forward. with high-profile free agents having a decisive upper hand in the negotia­tions for their services — which is most evident from the rapid increase in nine-figure deals — it is difficult to imagine players that will not take advantage of opt-out opportunities that favor them. 
as a result of the escalat­ing number of opt-out con­tracts, baseball’s free agency will likely see more activity in the foreseeable future. additionally, if the trend continues moving forward and players start exercis­ing the opt-outs included in their deals, many talented players will presumably end up playing for more teams over the course of their ca­reers than in the past. 
while it is hard to argue that the proliferation of opt-out contracts is bad for players, they are a bit more precarious for fans. if they do become the norm 
— which all signs seem to point to — many fans will have to deal with some of their favorite and most productive players leaving shortly after signing or, even worse, watch in horror as their unproductive expen­sive free agents play out the length of their deals and be­come financial deadweights. 
Contact Ryan klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to bounce back against Knights 
Observer Staff Report 

after losing a heartbreaker to olivet, 52-49, last saturday at home, the belles look to redeem themselves when they host calvin on wednesday. 
having lost nine straight con­tests, a win wednesday could be huge in gathering momentum for the home stretch of the schedule for the belles (1-17, 1-8 miaa). however, the game against the knights (13-4, 8-1) will not be an easy win. 
ranked 15th nationally, the knights are coming off a domi­nating performance against kalamazoo, a game they won, 76­
44. in comparison, the belles lost 
to kalamazoo by 11 on Jan. 13. The knights have proved themselves as road warriors, hav­ing won more games away (six) than at home (five). They also have four players shooting over 50 percent from the field. 
The knights average more than 80 points per game, includ­ing an average of just under nine 3-pointers per game. guards sophomore ali spayde and junior anna Timmer lead the knights in scoring, averaging over 14 points per game. 
The belles will look to rely on consistent scorers and senior captains maddie kohler, forward eleni shea and forward krista knapke. sophomore forward gabby diamond and junior for­ward kelsey ronan have also been key scorers for the belles thus far. 
The belles were unable to over­come a late series of turnovers in the final minutes of the game against olivet. despite besting the comets in shooting percent­age and rebounds, olivet’s 19 points off turnovers proved to be the deciding factor. Facing a calvin team that forces over 20 turnovers a game, the belles will need to minimize their mistakes to hang with the high-powered knights. 
The belles host calvin at 7:30 
p.m. at angela athletic Facility. Following wednesday’s game against calvin, the belles have six more regular season games, beginning with another confer­ence showdown on saturday as they take on alma on the road at 1 p.m. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | virginia 72, wake ForesT 71 
no. 11 virginia stuns wake Forest on a late 3 
Associated Press 

winsTon-salem, n.c. 
— darius Thompson hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer to give no. 11 virginia a 72-71 victory over wake Forest on Tuesday night. 
malcolm brogdon scored 28 points and anthony gill added 17 for the cavaliers (16-4, 5-3 atlantic coast conference). The league’s top 3-point shooting team shook off a miserable night on the perimeter, hitting four 3s in the final minute to pull out a most unlikely victory. 
bryant crawford scored 18 of his 22 points in the second half and devin Thomas added 19 for the demon deacons (10­10, 1-7), who blew a 10-point lead with 90 seconds left. crawford missed one of two free throws with 4.0 seconds left to set up virginia’s last chance. 
devon hall brought the ball up court and passed to Thompson in the left corner, and the redshirt sophomore banked in his dramatic 3 over Thomas to end it. 
marila shayok finished with 10 points for the cavaliers, who trailed 64-58 entering the final minute before brogdon’s 3 made it a three-point game with 53.6 seconds left. but after gill’s dunk with 46.3 seconds to play made it 66­63, virginia had three con­secutive empty possessions while wake Forest hit 4 of 6 free throws to push its lead to 70-63. 
shayok hit a 3 from the cor­ner to make it a four-point game with 14.5 seconds left, Thomas missed two free throws with 11.2 seconds to play and brogdon hit another 3 with 4.7 seconds left to pull the cavaliers to 70-69. 
crawford then missed his first free throw, but made the second and the demon deacons set up a full-court press, which hall broke before finding Thompson for that huge 3 that stood after a brief official review and gave the cavaliers their first acc road victory this season. 
That shot also denied the demon deacons their second victory over a Top 25 team this season and first at home. 
The cavaliers, who make 
40.5 percent of their 3s, were just 1 of 13 from behind the arc in the first 39 minutes be­fore hitting four straight to end the game. 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Klonsinski 
conTinued From page 12 
against no. 5 minnesota duluth on oct. 24. notre dame also had to settle for a tie after giving up three third-period goals against western michigan on Jan. 9. 
penalties were also an early problem for the team, especially of the major variety: The irish took three major penalties in the first nine games of the year. notre dame also took 10 penalties during saturday’s 3-2 win over new hampshire, which irish head coach Jeff Jackson said was due to his team’s inabil­ity to adjust to a different set of referees from Friday night to saturday night. 
“That’s a maturing pro­cess,” Jackson said. “we have to try to eliminate some of the penalties that we’re taking, there’s no question. … we’ve been really good over the last month. This is the first time that i thought that in a while penalties became a factor for us.” 
and there have certainly been flashes of brilliance from the younger players as well. 
sophomore left wing anders bjork earned a spot on the u.s. world Junior championship team that won bronze in helsinki and has scored five goals in his six games since re­turning to the irish. bjork also owns a 10-game point streak, which is just one of the personal streaks young irish skaters have built re­cently: Freshman defense-man bobby nardella (seven games) and sophomore center Jake evans (six) also extended their streaks last weekend against new hampshire. 
“a lot of our sophomores are really coming into their own,” Jackson said. “it’s been a year and a half for them in college hockey, and they’re coming into their own, and some of the fresh­men have really elevated their games and have shown some signs of contributing offensively, which is really important.” 
another positive sign for the irish: mario lucia has found his offensive game of late. The senior left wing has scored six goals over his team’s last six games, five of which were wins. 
notre dame is begin­ning to find its groove. The irish know they have a no. 1 goalie in net in sophomore cal petersen, and the young defense corps in front of him has developed nicely, led by the emergence of ju­nior Justin wade. 
if notre dame wants to find success in the postsea­son, it will need to continue that growth and develop­ment of its youth to support its core group of seniors. 
at this point, though, the pieces all appear to be there. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 




paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | The observer 


Robinson 
so in the fall and the spring, i just have to take two class­
conTinued From page 12 

es pretty much.” along with his previous those two aspects.” work as athletics represen­
robinson, who is pursu-tative, robinson currently ing a major in the program serves as vice president for of liberal studies with a sus-the student athlete advisory tainability minor, said his committee (saac). rebecca academic schedule would blais, a sophomore politi­allow him to devote most of cal science and peace stud-his energy to the commit-ies major who most recently ments on both the football served as student govern-team and within student ment’s director of internal government. he added he affairs, will run alongside sought insight from the last robinson as his vice presi­three student government dential candidate. presidents in making his de-“if we do get elected, i’m cision to run. going to have a very experi­
“i talked to alex coccia, enced team with everyone talked to lauren vidal, talk-who knows what they’re go-ed to bryan ricketts, and ing to be doing, so that way, i’ve talked to all my friends i won’t have to be around in student [government] every single second of every when i was in student [gov-single day,” he said. “we’ll ernment] on the executive have a very experienced, cabinet last year [as ath-very veteran team, where letics representative], so i i can be more of an over-know very well what kind of seer. … i’d let them do their time commitment it’s going thing, through updates and to be,” he said. “ … i’ve talk-through meetings, more of ed with alex firsthand since than kind of role as opposed he was a national champion-to a micromanager.” ship fencer, and i asked him robinson said they will how he balanced it, so after run on a platform of “open getting advice from every-communication and a body, i’ve kind of crafted shared vision” to represent this situation in which class the student body, “the real won’t really be an issue and power of the university — where i can just put all my students are notre dame.” time and effort into those additionally, he said he two spheres.” would like to develop a more 
The san antonio native “creative and innovative said the amount of aca-space” at the university if he demic credits he has earned were elected. would allow him to graduate robinson is not the only this may, but he has added member of the football team a business economics mi-involved in student govern-
fourth on the team in 3-point season, which would put her nor that would preserve his ment elections this year. 
W Bball 
attempts, and both are second in team history for a conTinued From page 12 status as an undergraduate, Freshman defensive line-
shooting above 40 percent. single season. a requirement for the presi-man Jerry Tillery announced 
mcgraw has constantly cable’s mark is tied with dential position, through via Twitter on Tuesday that 
one,” mcgraw said. “and i called the two freshmen marina mabrey for tops on next may. he is serving as campaign 
think that’s what we’re doing “fearless” in their first col-the team and in the acc, “i’ve planned ahead, got-manager for the ticket of ju­
well. we’re really smart, and legiate season, and as they and the graduate student ten all of my hard work out niors louis bertolotti and 
we’re taking shots when we have grown more comfort-and freshman, along with of the way this semester, and elizabeth Fenton. 
feel like it’s in the flow of the able, they’re beginning to try michaela mabrey, are con-i’m finishing up my senior 
offense.” more shots from downtown, stantly putting up long-range thesis,” robinson said. “i’m Contact Mary Green at 
The irish (19-1, 7-0 acc) she said. shots in practice in a friendly doing all the hard stuff now mgreen8@nd.edu 
have let loose from beyond “They are just fearless and competition, according to the arc almost 15 times per confident, and that is what’s mcgraw. game this year, and 44.2 per-really helping us, and i think beyond personal pride, cent of the time, those shots they both play different however, all those 3-point­are going in. roles,” mcgraw said. “arike ers have helped the irish in 
and as mabrey and cable is shooting more 3s now than other facets of their offense. have taken on leadership she was before. she’s mixing because opponents have to roles on the team, they have in driving, pull-up jumpers respect the team’s ability to continued to fire away from and the 3. marina’s doing the shoot the 3, the post game 3-point territory and passed same thing when she’s get-opens up and sophomore on that aggressiveness to ting to the basket, but she’s forward brianna Turner has their teammates, especially also shooting 3s.” more room to work, mcgraw mabrey. but michaela mabrey and said. 
“she’s the one, when you cable remain the most pro-“They really complement come into practice, right lific 3-point shooters on the each other well, so when we away you’ll know who’s in squad. in notre dame’s 90-shoot 3s well, it helps bri, charge of the team, and she’s 62 win over syracuse last and when bri’s scoring, it done just a fabulous job Thursday, mabrey attempted helps the 3-point shooters,” of helping the freshmen,” 10 3-pointers, and cable put mcgraw said. “They can’t mcgraw said. “That’s prob-up seven. double down, and they can’t ably the biggest role that indeed, the pair are chasing pack it in, so … that’s obvi­she plays is what she’s doing history in their final season ously the way to succeed is with the freshmen, helping with the irish. mabrey cur-to have the inside-outside them grow, helping them to rently sits fourth in program combination.” learn how things work, be-history in career 3-point field notre dame next travels ing encouraging, and yet at goals made and attempted to atlanta to take on georgia the same time trying to hold and fifth in career 3-point Tech, who ranks 212th in the them accountable.” percentage, while cable is country in 3-point defense. 
not that the freshmen second only to ncaa-record Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. have been all that shy about holder alicia ratay in career on Thursday. shooting the 3. guards 3-point percentage. cable is marina mabrey and arike also shooting 48.9 percent Contact Greg Hadley at  ogunbowale rank third and from beyond the arc this ghadley@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL 

Robinson announces presidential campaign 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
corey robinson is mainly known around campus and to irish fans as no. 88, a member of the notre dame receiving corps. but this spring, the junior will take on an additional role — candidate for student gov­ernment president for the upcoming term. 
robinson acknowledged that while both campaign­ing over the next few weeks and, if elected, the job it­self will take up much of his time, he said he will still re­main a full-time member of the football team. 
campaigning takes place from this Tuesday to elec­tion day, Feb. 10, and the university’s new student government president will commence his or her term april 1. notre dame’s spring practice kicks off march 16 and runs until the blue-gold game on april 16. 
“This spring, all of our practices are in the morn­ing, so we practice from six in the morning until 10 a.m., and the rest of the day is free, and i have one class a day, no class on Fridays,” he said. “in the summer, same kind of thing — we only practice for two hours a day, and i’m going to be here ev­ery day, all day, so that’ll be easy as well. i’m only taking one class. “ 
once the irish begin their 2016 season in august, robinson said his schedule will change but would still allow him to fully work in student government. 
“in the fall, we practice to 2:30 to 7, so anything be­tween those hours, i can’t participate in, but the rest of the day, i’m free,” he said. “i’m going to have three or four classes … and the way my schedule works, only football and student body, so that way, i’ll be able to be fully invested in both, in 
see robinson PAGE 11 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Mabrey, Cable lead ND from beyond the arc 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
michaela mabrey and madison cable weren’t much of 3-point shooters during their rookie seasons. in the 2012-2013 campaign, both guards averaged under two attempts per game and shot below 36 percent. 
That season, the irish con­verted 34 percent of their attempts from long range, ranking 41st in the nation. 
Three years later, the se­nior mabrey and graduate student cable are two of the most prolific 3-point shoot­ers in program history, and no. 3 notre dame leads the ncaa in 3-point shooting percentage. 
in fact, the 2015-2016 squad might be the best 3-point shooting team head coach muffet mcgraw has ever had, she said. 
“i think to be a good 3-point shooting team, you have to have a really short memory. you have to be able to miss some shots and just move on and take the next 
see w bball PAGE 11 


HOCKEY 
youth finding its groove for irish 

Zach Klonsinski 
sports editor 
There’s something differ­ent echoing off all that fan­cy stone at compton Family ice arena. 
notre dame (14-4-7, 10-1-2 hockey east) is in the midst of a 12-game unbeaten streak, the fifth longest in school history and the longest in the nation at the moment. The irish have rid­den their recent hot play to a spot just inside the top 10 of the national rankings — no. 10 in the uscho poll and no. 9 according to usa Today — and a tie for sec­ond in hockey east. 
notre dame has won its last six contests on home ice, including the first game of its unbeaten streak, a 3-1 victory over western michigan on nov. 28. The irish are 3-0-3 on the road over that stretch, including a 4-3, come-from-behind victory over then-no. 3 boston college at conte Forum on dec. 10. The irish and eagles entered the third period tied before bc scored two goals in the first 7:05 to take a 3-1 lead in front of its home crowd. 
That’s a tough situation for any team to find itself in, especially for a young irish squad that still hadn’t quite found itself at that point in the season. 
Thirteen minutes later, however, notre dame proved it could skate with anyone. 
sophomore defenseman Jordan gross and fresh­man center andrew oglevie scored to tie the game, and freshman defenseman dennis gilbert netted the game winner with just 22 seconds left in regulation. 
it was a big win for a team that has battled the prob­lems that come with youth last year and the first few months of this season. The irish roster is composed of 15 freshmen and sopho­mores, and there have been some early growing pains. 
The irish gave up at least three goals in each of their first four games, including blowing a two-goal lead 
see klonsinski PAGE 10 



