The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 114 | fridAy, APril 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
New president, vice president take office 
Robinson, Blais discuss plans for upcoming year 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
corey robinson and becca blais, who take office as stu­dent body president and vice president today, plan to hit the ground running in their mis­sion to lead, connect and serve notre dame students. 
“we want to give the stu­dents all we’ve got,” robinson said. “we’re going to be fight­ing for [the student body’s] best interests — with the ad­ministration, with polices, 
see robinson PAGE 5 




Ricketts, Ruelas reflect on past year’s impact 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
as their time in office comes to a close on april 1, outgoing student body president and vice president bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas said they were proud of the work they did and excited for the work left to do. 
“it’s very bittersweet. i’m ex­cited for corey and becca to get a start, for the cabinet to take on some issues that affect our students. i’m excited to get some time back to myself, but 
see ricKeTTs PAGE 5 


nd students attend easter mass in vatican city 

By EMILY McCONVILLE 
news writer 
rome — Though easter mass with pope francis didn’t start until 10:15 a.m., dozens were al­ready lined up sunday outside vatican city at 6:30 a.m, deter­mined to get some of the limited seats near the front of st. peter’s square. 
about 130 of these people, according to campus ministry, were notre dame students and their friends, gathered in rome from study abroad programs in london, dublin, angers, Toledo and other locations across europe. everyone had gotten their tickets to the mass through the annual campus ministry easter pilgrimage; several had 
see rome PAGE 4 



Dating violence incident reported to University 
Observer Staff Report 

an incident of dating vi­olence was reported to a university administrator Tuesday, according to the notre dame security police (ndsp) crime log. 
The alleged crime oc­curred last friday in a men’s residence hall, according to the log entry. The complaint will go through the Title iX review process. 
according to du lac, the university’s code of conduct, dating violence is defined as “physical violence or the threat of physical violence committed by a person who is or has been in a social re­lationship of a romantic or intimate nature with an individual.” 
The existence of a relation­ship is determined on “factors such as the length and type of relationship and frequency of interaction between the per­sons involved,” du lac states. 


Dominican sisters reflect on supporting Iraqi nuns 
By MARTHA REILLY 
associate saint mary’s editor 

while the u.s. state department has issued a warn­ing against travel in iraq for american citizens, dominican sister durstyne farnan felt compelled to take on the danger and travel to the country in 2005, in order to demonstrate solidar­ity with the iraqi dominican nuns fleeing religious persecu­tion. farnan, along with sister arlene flaherty, spoke at saint mary’s on Thursday night on how encounters with displaced iraqi people have enabled them to see light in the midst of darkness. 
“These young sisters in the congregation had only known war since [they were] about tod­dler’s age,” farnan said. “They were also unable to complete their education because the university was open one day and closed the next.” 
The decision to flee the vio­lent reality of war and terrorism is complicated, though, by the iraqis’ fierce loyalties to their hometowns, farnan said. 
“That is where they grew up, that is where their faith is from, and that is where their family and friends are,” farnan said. “There’s something about those roots that is so deep. nothing, not even conflict, will never take away their love, their de­sire, their hope to return home.” 
flaherty said over 120,000 christians have been forced to abandon their homes in north­ern iraq, adapting to lifestyles of poverty with which they are unfamiliar. 
“They’re upper middle-class 
see sisTers PAGE 3 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 fooTball PAGE 16 baseball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 


News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 

What is your favorite dog breed and why? 

Iesha Miller 
junior le mans hall 

“pit bulls because despite the reputation of pit bulls, they are the sweetest dogs ever.” 
Annelise Steele 
junior le mans hall 
“huskies because they have really pretty eyes.” 
Nina Steele 
first year mccandless hall 
“yorkie terrier mix.” 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Yaritza Vidaurre 
junior holy cross hall 
“pugs, especially black pugs and french bulldogs. super cute and adorable.” 
Molly  Vogele 
first year mccandless hall 
“shibis because they’re fluffy.” 
Teresa Valencia 
junior holy cross hall 
“bulldogs. They’re fierce and tough.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

Katie galioto marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com megan valley elizabeth greason meghan sullivan 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Graphics Scene 

Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday 
matt mcmahon olivia mikkelsen 
Viewpoint Photo 

Comparative Politics Interfaith Crawl 2016 Human Dignity Diverse Student Fourth Annual Poetry 
Tabitha ricketts emmet farnan 

Workshop Coleman Morse Lecture Conference Slam Hesburgh Center for Center McKenna Hall Rice Commons Snite Museum of Art International Studies 10 a.m. - 3 p.m. 7 p.m. - 8:30 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m. 5 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. 
Corrections 

3 p.m. - 5 p.m. Visit various faith Cardinal John Featuring keynote Competitive poetry 
The observer regards itself as Research forum. traditions in Michiana. Onaiyekan will speak. speaker Mary Burke. event. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
A Cappella Fest 2016 ND Softball vs. Rejoice! Mass “Intensitalia: An “Full of Grace” 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

Carey Auditorium Florida State Dillon Hall Evening with Mina” Screening 
however, recognize that we will make 

8 p.m. Melissa Cook Stadium 8 p.m. - 9 p.m. Washington Hall Jordan Hall of Science 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 

See all five ND a 1 p.m. - 5 p.m. Mass celebrating 7:30 p.m. - 9 p.m. 7 p.m. - 9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 

cappella groups The Irish take on the African-American Live music influenced Includes Q&A with 
we can correct our error. 

perform. $5 tickets. Seminoles. tradition. by Italian singer Mina.        producers. 


UN expert promotes international solidarity 
the human resources neces-
By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer sary to handle problems on their own,” she said. 
independent expert on hu-yet international soli­man rights and internation-darity is still important in al solidarity for the united more established countries, nations human rights dandan said. council virginia dandan “even in wealthy coun­spoke about the importance tries, there are still pock-of international solidarity in ets of poverty that remain,” a lecture Thursday afternoon dandan said. “in trying to sponsored by the Kellogg eradicate inequality and institute for international discrimination, what coun­studies. dandan said the try in the world can do goal of international soli-this on its own? They need darity is to allow local issues international cooperation.” to be solved on an interna-This international coop­tional level. eration is universally ben­
“international solidarity is eficial, dandan said. a platform that broadens the “countries are still inter-participation of implement-dependent with each other,” ing human rights across bor-she said. “They are still in­ders,” dandan said. terrelated in what they’re 

This is especially impor-doing.” tant in developing countries, dandan said fighting dandan said, since they may human rights violations not have the means required through international soli-“The collective purposes move it towards internation-involved in attempts to erad­to solve a problem. darity would make the and actions of international al needs,” he said. icate these issues, dandan 
“many countries lack the causes of these violations solidarity must be directed The global fight against said. financial resources and lack clearer to other countries towards fostering the three terrorism is an example of “Those hopes that you have dealing with similar issues. pillars of the united nations, international solidarity, for your own individual to-paid adverTisemenT 
“international solidarity which are peace and securi-since many countries ac-morrow must include a very tries not only to encourage ty, development and human knowledge the threat terror-real engagement with what human rights, but is able to rights,” dandan said. ism poses and have worked is happening around us,” she get to the root causes of the luigi crema, a visiting together in an attempt to said. “let us not give [future violations of human rights at Kellogg fellow from the eliminate it, crema said. generations] a world where the international level,” she university of milan, provid-“This fight embodies a po-they have no more choices to said. ed commentary on dandan’s litical view that is global and make because they have to 
The movement aims to talk and discussed her role not just local,” crema said. live with what we have done help all countries involved in the united nations. everyone can participate today.” by promoting the values of “she is trying to take an in international solidar­the united nations, dandan idea from the limited bound-ity by remaining aware of Contact Aidan Lewis at  said. aries of a political body and global issues and becoming alewis9@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 
a survival from one day to the 
Sisters 
next.” 
conTinued from page 1 
according to flaherty, the 
united states imposed sanctions people, who lived in enormous on iraq that were designed to op-houses,” flaherty said. “we may pose the government of saddam have an erroneous understand-hussein. consequently, the iraqi ing of who they are, as if they’re people were deprived of basic poor people … as a result, we’re necessities, and many died from talking about people who had diseases since there were no anti-never lived on the street corner biotics available, she said. before, so they had no idea what “The people really couldn’t get it was like.” what they needed,” flaherty said. 
according to flaherty, iraqis “about 5,000 iraqi children were encounter difficulty obtaining dying every month from these the refugee status that would sanctions.” grant them basic requirements flaherty said isis aims to pro-outlined by the united nations, mote attitudes of despair and des­due to the fact that countries such olation among innocent iraqis, as Jordan, Turkey, lebanon and but she knows joy and mercy also syria only regard them as tempo-exist. rary guests. “certainly, iraq’s story has all 
“because they’re denied refu-the markings of a tragedy, and gee status, iraqis who are fleeing that’s the only way many people war are unable to apply for work, will ever read it,” flaherty said. unable to access education, so-“we want you to see through our cial services and healthcare,” experience the resilience, the ca­flaherty said. “children continue pacity, the talent, the irrepress­to be denied their rights, as their ible hope that continues to keep access to education and health-iraq alive.” care is sporadic at best.” farnan said she is blessed with 
flaherty said the expanding the friendships of her dominican presence of isis gives christians sisters and other displaced iraqis, and religious minorities no option for they teach her the impor­but to flee their towns, seeking tance of maintaining hope in all shelter in parks, schools, church-circumstances. es, cemeteries and mosques. “This is a story of treasure, not 
“They have three choices: stay only of tragedy,” farnan said. “yes and convert to islam, pay an indeed, we have family in iraq.” enormous tax or choose to be be­headed,” flaherty said. “They’re Contact Martha Reilly at living in limbo, trying to etch out mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 






The observer | fridAy, APril 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


rome 
conTinued from page 1 
also gone with campus ministry over the weekend to other churches in the city, among them all four of the major basili­cas of the catholic church. 
“everyone comes from dif­ferent experiences of faith and everyone came with different questions,” junior emily david, the student minister in rome, said. “That’s the beauty of a pil­grimage — you’re having your own experience of growth, but you’re helping each other.” 
it was two hours before peo­ple would even be allowed to file into st. peter’s square. The notre dame students used the time to catch up — the line be­came a crowd as people moved up and down it, seeing some of their friends for the first time all semester. 
at 8:30 a.m., the time st. peter’s square opened, ap­proached, the crowd, now num­bering in the hundreds, pressed together. “don’t push!” a guard shouted in italian, as the stu­dents were propelled, not of their own volition,  toward the security booths set up between bernini’s columns. 
The bottleneck of metal bar­riers was partly due to height­ened security following terrorist attacks in brussels. The united states embassy in rome had kept american universities and study abroad programs up­dated about potential threats, david said, and campus ministry had reiterated safety recommendations. 
“There’s naturally a little fear in everybody, going to such a big event, but everyone still came, and that’s a clear sign that faith is stronger than fear,” david said. 
Junior aly cox, who is study­ing in rome, said she was still apprehensive about the size of the crowd. 
“honestly, i was a little scared the whole time that i was going to be a target at the event,” cox said. 
but the notre dame group made it safely inside, where they got seats — actual chairs — near a pathway where the pope would later greet the crowd in his popemobile. Then there was more waiting, as the square filled and ceremonially-dressed guards assembled. students studying in rome translated parts of the program and pa an­nouncements in italian for their friends. 
after a latin rosary, the crowd at st. peter’s, now in the thousands, murmured and took pictures. finally, a voice on an announcement system asked the churchgoers not to shout or wave flags once the pope appeared. flags from many countries were certainly visible, ready to be waved when the pope drove through the square. 
a moment later, once the opening music had begun, pope francis emerged from the holy doors of st. peter’s. everyone leaned in with phones 
“Everyone comes from different experiences of faith and everyone came with different questions. That’s the beauty of a pilgrimage — you’re having your own experience of growth, but you’re helping each other. ” 
Emily David 
student minister 
and zoom lenses, then sat back as the mass begun, the pope reciting the opening prayers in spanish-tinged latin. 
The service itself reflected the faces and flags in the crowd. prayers were in latin (and a gospel in greek), but the scrip­ture readings were in spanish and french and the intentions 
paid adverTisemenT 


in english, german, russian, arabic and chinese. 
“it was probably the most ac­tually global mass i’d ever at­tended,” cox said. 
after the closing prayer, the crowd began to stand and cheer as television screens showed the pope leaving the altar to climb into his open-cover popemobile. The car moved through the square, past the people standing on chairs, with phones and cameras in the air, screaming the pope’s name or just cheering. pope francis waved and blessed them, then slowly made his way back to st. peter’s and, a moment later, emerged onto the balcony for his easter address. 
he spoke of infinite mercy, the love of god and the sacrifice of Jesus, which calls the faithful to show compassion towards the marginalized. he called for peace in syria and between israel and palestine and in ukraine. he called for an end to terrorism, wherever it was. 
“may he draw us closer on this easter feast to the victims of terrorism, that blind and brutal form of violence which continues to shed blood in different parts of the world, as in the recent attacks in belgium, Turkey, nigeria, chad, cameroon and côte d’ivoire,” pope francis said, according to a vatican translation. “may he water the seeds of hope and prospects for peace in africa; i think in particular of burundi, mozambique, the democratic republic of the congo and south sudan, marked by politi­cal and social tensions.” 
he also prayed for migrants and refugees and those affected by climate change, as well as “those in our society who have lost all hope and joy in life, to the elderly who struggle alone and feel their strength waning, to young people who seem to have no future.” and, with a fi­nal blessing and to the renewed cheers of the crowd, the pope withdrew. 
The notre dame students, along with thousands of oth­ers, spilled into the streets sur­rounding the square. many of them would attend a reception later that evening at the notre dame rome global gateway, and, the next day, would fly back to their study abroad locations or elsewhere for more traveling. 
but the luck of attending the mass was not lost on cox. 
“we got to go to easter mass, the highest mass of the year, during a Jubilee year, with the pope, and with the pope who’s probably going to be one of the most influential popes of our lifetimes,” she said. 
Contact Emily McConville at emcconv1@nd.edu 



“with the ‘it’s on us’ cam-— with the administrators, with 

ricketts 
“hopefully we can make this paign out in the dorms and get-the cabinet, with the people that 
robinson not only a notre dame staple, 
conTinued from page 1 conTinued from page 1 
ting people talking about that aren’t in student government at 

but a south bend music festival and helping funnel them into all. you go back to at the end of 
that is permanent,” he said. “it’s it’s also, as we’re getting ready the green dot program, i think the day and ask for help, and all 
with ideas, programming, a really cool event for both col-and giving them all these transi-we were very successful,” he said. those relationships were key,” 
events, relationships with the lege students and the people of tion materials and prepping … “i’m happy with the work we did ricketts said. 
community.” south bend.” it’s bittersweet,” ricketts said. on our board report, research-ruelas said she also learned 
starting next week, the ad-blais said their administra­ricketts said the inability to ing and walking with survivors about the importance of relation-
ministration will launch a tion will continue to work on continue working on the many of sexual violence, in particular ships, particularly hers with the 
student senate reform initia-some of the same issues the initiatives set forth by their ad-with the conduct process and student body. 
tive, blais said, implementing ricketts-ruelas administration ministration is frustrating; how-the Title iX process and what we “i’ve learned about how resil­
a new structure that separates focused on, in small-scale and ever, he said he is excited to see needed to improve with that.” ient we are as a student body, and 
senators into four committees large-scale ways. how the next administration The university has promised to how important that is to accom­
— health and wellness, sus-“They have a lot of similar steps up. release the campus climate sur-plishing our goals, and it really is 
tainability, student affairs and ideas as us — diversity and “we’re putting together these vey results from last year, which that we hold each other account-
community engagement. at inclusion, sexual assault — materials on issues that are going ricketts said was a major success able to a higher standard of char-
each meeting, which will now generally working towards on — i keep saying ‘oh, i could do for his administration. acter,” she said. “i think that that’s 
be held wednesdays at 7:30 those goals of making it better. this,’ but no, i can’t anymore and “i’m pretty happy on the trans-been super important, as we’ve 
p.m. in the notre dame room honestly, that’s not something that’s hard,” he said. parency front as well,” he said. had to learn for ourselves, and 
of lafortune student center, that ends with one adminis­ruelas said it has been a privi-“getting the promise of releasing we’ve had to tap into that desire 
senators will spend a portion tration. Those are things that lege to serve as vice president for the survey was huge. i think that to always be better and that de­
of the time in their committees we’re carrying on,” she said. the past academic year. was one of, if not our biggest goal. sire to always be the best people 
discussing items on the agenda. robinson will be on campus “i feel very proud of everything That’s all stuff to be proud of, i we can be.” 
“each senator would share over the summer, working on we’ve accomplished this year. think.” as they leave office and the 
the perspective not only of their events and policies for the up­we’ve had so many successes ruelas said the administration incoming robinson-blais ad-
committee, but of the depart-coming school year. he said he and failures. i think that in all of also made progress improving ministration takes over, ricketts 
ments they sit on, their resi-and blais both have an open those, though, we’ve learned so the climate at the university as it said he hopes that they have left 
dence halls, the constituents door policy and welcome stu­much — about ourselves, about pertains to sexual assault. a strong foundation, particularly 
they represent,” she said. “The dents to share their ideas with the people we work with — and “from the prayer services, and in regards to the relationship be-
small group discussion in the student government. i’d like to say that we’ve all grown, getting students to attend those, tween the university and south 
committee is not only to bring “right now what we have to as individuals and as a group,” to asking people to think about bend. 
that committee’s perspective, do, in my opinion, is be able to she said. being active bystanders and un-“i know [that relationship] is a 
but also give them a chance to foster communication on these in a high-pressure and result-derstanding that it’s all on us as major focus of so many people, 
vocalize where they’re coming important issues,” he said. “we driven environment, growth is individuals to really make sure corey and becca included, but 
from.” can’t keep going around them, something that is hard to quan-that we identify situations and also so many people across the 
after committee discussions, beating around the bush. tify, ruelas said. step in … we’ve created a culture community, and we’ve tried 
blais said all members of the “Talking is great, but the most “it’s something you can’t put of caring, all the time — even to get the word out there about 
senate will assemble to decide important thing we want to do a timeline on, you can’t put any when it’s the hardest thing to do,” south bend,” ricketts said. “… 
what action to take moving is have a result — an attainable kind of measure or value on, but she said. The future of notre dame is with 
forward. result. but we realize we can’t i feel very proud that we’ve come ricketts said he has learned a the future of south bend, and 
“every committee will ap-get that tangible result in pol-this far and been able to accom-lot about himself and grown as a that’s become evidently clear. i 
proach it in a different way, so icy, unless we have discussion plish so much,” she said. leader during the past year. hope we’ve left a good foundation 
it will be nice to spur dialogue about it, unless we know what ricketts said he was happy “i understand a lot more about for that to grow on.” 
and attack the same subject the students think.” with the execution of their cam-who i am and what i want to ac-
from different viewpoints,” blais said she hopes to in­paign promise to promote sexual complish, but also how to do Contact Rachel O’Grady at  
robinson said. crease awareness about re-assault awareness. all that through relationships rogrady@nd.edu 
Three days after the pair sources the university offers, was elected in february, they such as the mcdonald center met with st. liam’s to discuss for student well-being (mcwell their plan to train notre dame center). nurses as sexual assault nurse “we have all of these struc­examiners (sanes), robinson tures and resources in place,” said. Junior gracie watkins, the she said “now it’s just about administration’s policy liaison, making them accessible to stu­is working on a research report dents, making it a part of the to present to st. liam’s before everyday talk, everyday lingo, the end of the school year. so you know that you have 
“we’ve got to show that them and that you actually uti­there’s similar and successful lize them.” satellite programs,” robinson robinson said he is trying to said. “… we’re going to give pursue goals that are realistic them the report. Then hope-yet ambitious. fully over the summer, we’ll co-“for us, this is not necessar­present it to st. Joseph hospital, ily doing anything different or so that we’re ready for the fall.” reinventing the wheel. it’s just 
To further the administra-continuing the great legacy al­tion’s community engagement ready left,” he said. “diversity goal, student government and inclusion, sexual assault, is also working to increase health and wellness — these student involvement in the things don’t just disappear. riverlights music festival, a we’re trying to push it for­three-day event in south bend ward a little more, before we in may, robinson said. The fes-pass the torch on to the next tival features a variety of local administration.” bands and other performers at various venues throughout the Contact Katie Galioto at  south bend area. kgalioto@nd.edu 




iNSidE ColumN 
‘Boys will be boys’ 

Caitlyn Jordan 
photo editor 
The phrase “boys will be boys” has been long overused by many in today’s popular culture. The term often goes hand in hand with the thought that “boys will be boys and their hormones control their mind and body.” but i ask, how could anyone say that with such confidence? every human be­ing has hormones, both men and women. i’m not sure about you but my hormones do not send messages to my brain saying, “go sexually assault someone, no matter what.” hormones do not cause people to commit acts of sexual violence. but, how did we, as a society, end up having imbe­cilic phrases that clearly take blame off the male perpetrator? 
we live in a world that produces main­stream “rape culture” media. rape culture can be defined as the normalization of rape or other acts of sexual violence, usu­ally depicted as male dominance over the female body. Think back to your favorite crime show. often, the go-to storyline is, “a woman was violently raped.” noticed how i phrased that? another way media normalizes rape is taking the perpetrator out altogether from a crime. rather than saying, “the perpetrator raped her,” or “the perpetrator committed a crime,” media often writes about the crime in a manner that seems to be induced by the victim: “The woman was raped,” or “a woman had a crime acted upon her.” 
now, here comes the disturbing part. Think of one of your favorite romantic comedies. girl and guy fall in love and end up having sex. next time, take a closer look at the sex scene (whoa, that’s something you don’t hear every day at a catholic school). i’m serious though. how do the scenes start off? The man usually goes in for a hard kiss. suddenly, the man slams the woman either up against the wall or onto a bed while ripping her clothes off. The woman never has a chance to say, “Take it easy,” or “no thank you!” Take the rom-com effect away from this scene and replace it with a suv storyline: “woman had her body thrown across the room while the man violently ripped her clothes off.” same exact acts are happening. rape culture normalization, my friend. 
rather than continuing to be angry with those who have used the phrase i men­tioned, i pity them. i pity them for accep­tance and use of the phrase. i pity them for the reason that we all will be continu­ously bombarded with rape normalization. however, i do not pity their ignorance. no. To pity ignorance gives power to the is­sue. we as saint mary’s and notre dame students cannot allow this power to reign. rape will stop once we teach that excuses do not count as permission to perpetrate evil. 
Contact Caitlyn Jordan at                                  cjorda01@saintmarys.edu
    The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

lesson from a barista 
Scott Tully 
guest column 

This past weekend, i was lucky enough to fly home to see my friends and family for easter. on monday, i bid farewell to them and to my dog and drove to my flight back to school, an afternoon departure from boston’s logan airport. 
This trip did not seem unique. i went through security as usual, found my gate and began to walk towards the nearest starbucks before my plane boarded. what i found at this starbucks was perhaps the most powerful scene in my recent memory. 
as i reached the front of the line, a smiling middle eastern man met me with a smile, and, in his broken english, asked, “what is your name? what you like?” 
“scott. venti black tea lemonade,” i replied, nearly automatically. The man removed a cup, took out a sharpie and began to write my order. what happened next struck me. 
he started with my name: s. c. o. T. “This cor­rect?” he asked. “no,” i responded with a laugh. “There are two T’s at the end — s. c. o. T. T.” he immediately thanked me, and promptly added the second T. The exact same process contin­ued through his spelling of the remainder of my order; he had me check each word. black. Tea. lemonade. if it was wrong, i corrected him; he always thanked me. 
what had started as a near annoyance had be­come playful, an impromptu spelling bee in an airport starbucks. when my order was complete at last, as he proudly handed my cup off, i asked this worker why he was so concerned with the spell­ing. surely, i thought, this could not really matter 
— the attention to detail seemed irrelevant to me. “i do not want this job always,” he responded. “i must learn english here. i have a family.” 
i stood in my place, dumbfounded. after wish­ing him luck, i walked to my right to retrieve my drink. he started to take his next order. he started to spell his next word. 
This man was building his new life one word at a time. brick by brick, his future would be laid on the foundation of the american dream. i believed this dream dead, and yet its embodiment stood joyfully behind the counter. 
sometimes, our privilege is our greatest undoing. Too often we hear of immigrants in a negative light. Too often we assume those mak­ing less money do not work as hard as those in the upper rungs of society. Too often we are told the american dream is dead. 
what i found, on that day, was the antithesis of this. This man was stopping at no bounds to get ahead, to provide for his family and to live the dream of the united states of america that many of us take for granted each and every day. he was not lazy, nor was he a “taker.” This man did not shirk in the face of adversity. instead he dedicated each day to the betterment of himself and his family. 
let us all take a lesson from this. millions, bil­lions, of people would love to have the opportuni­ties we have at our hands today, as students and americans. This privilege is not to wield supe­riority over those holding less; achievement is non-binary. 
success comes in many forms. all people, re­gardless of race, ethnic background or socioeco­nomic status, can embody hard work. we each must recognize this reality. while those in the highest caste of society work hard, so too do the workers we all too often take for granted. in sim­ply working his job the best way he knew how, this inconspicuous starbucks worker taught me an incredible lesson. 
we are in this life together. all of us can benefit from understanding what makes other tick, what they are working for and what drives them on a daily basis. next time you see a person doing their job, disconsolate as it may be, showing up to work time and time again, pushing forward to better their life, pause. Think of their work, smile, ask how they are, find out what their story is — recog­nize they likely embody the same work ethic you do, even if their opportunity is less. 
This compassion, this humanity, this drive is what makes our america great already. from jani­tors to investment bankers, doctors to fast food workers, recognize that a job does not define a story, a tax bracket does not define a work ethic and money does not define life. americans can still dream — do so proudly. 
Scott Tully is a junior in the Mendoza College of Business. He can be reached at stully@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



lEttErS to thE Editor 

Decriminalize parietals 
Throughout its nearly 200-year history, notre dame has stood as a bastion of moral righteousness and consecrated virginity in the face of the degrada­tion of america’s moral fabric. a central pillar to this effort has been the policy of parietals, which right­fully limits the degree of indecent contact between males and females on campus. despite their status as the last hope for the preservation of chastity at our school, parietals have regretfully been eroded throughout our university’s history. in the face of overwhelming disobedience and continued, unre­strained interaction between the sexes, we admit with utmost sorrow that the time for surrender has arrived: The university of notre dame has no fur­ther option but to decriminalize the institution of parietals. 
while we have the highest respect for notre dame’s attempts to restrict male-female interaction to solely “a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage,” the tide of secular indecency propagated by liberal hollywood has made this noble stance un­realistic in the contemporary world. in the modern, aggressively godless language of liberal, man-hating, bra-less feminists, contact of any sort between the male and female sexes outside of the sacred institu­tion of marriage is not only allowed, but encouraged. and from this notion spouts an endless stream of apparent “expectations” demanded by our stu­dent body: Talking to members of the opposite sex? entering their dorms? and finally, the darkest of mor­al violations: spending a night in the same room as a member of the opposite sex? maybe even ... spooning ... without socks?! 
as the old saying goes, when you don’t walk your dog with a leash, it will think it can walk you. in a similar manner, women at this school, claiming they are subject to wildly disproportionate parietals enforcement and du lac sentencing practices, have started demanding equal implementation of pari­etals. what’s next? not harassing the lgbTQ com­munity? Treating women like people? what are we, canada?! 

we are frightened, and we are scared. it goes with­out saying we are disgusted by even speaking of these possibilities, but we live in a “culturally Jewish” (read: secular) dominated nation where we have to consider them. 
unfortunately, in the sexually immoral landscape of modern times, we must take into account the words of leftist interest groups like Trojan condoms over our own collective moral conscience. in the 2014 sexual health report card sponsored by Trojan condoms (america’s #1 condom Trusted for over 90 years), notre dame was ranked among the bot­tom 15 universities. meanwhile, catholic colleges that have decriminalized male-female interaction on their campuses, such as georgetown university and boston college, ranked significantly higher than notre dame. meanwhile, providence college, which similarly — and commendably — maintains enforce­ment of its parietals, joins notre dame in the bottom 
15. georgetown has prioritized treatment over incar­ceration, helping burgeoning females and males in­teract with each other in a secular capacity. although georgetown is a tarnished institution full of un­speakable anti-traditional family debauchery, we humbly ask notre dame, in the face of overwhelming pressure that threatens our endurance as a univer­sity, to follow suit. we must eliminate the culture of self-victimization in our student body. ever since the vagina monologues defiled this school, our women think they can discuss matters of their own sexuality openly. This culture of disobedience calls for decrim­inalization of parietals and subsequent rehabilitation 
— not penal retribution. They need our help. as the sycamore Trust reminds us, there is hope! 
a high-up administration official said (off the re­cord — whoops!), “we are aware there are a plethora of issues that may be deemed of importance, such as decreasing the rates of sexual assault, not treating potheads like hell-bent terrorists and bringing ber­ries to the dining halls — therefore, we have decided to not deal with any of this and focus all of our efforts on enforcing parietals in the female dorms on this campus.” 
while we agree ideologically, we are not the pre­vagina monologue institution that we once were. as peter once spoke to the gentiles, so too must we speak to feminists. we can no longer avoid them and must, unfortunately, engage with them — and this can only be done by first decriminalizing parietals. in doing so, we prevent radicals from continuing their claims of victimization and move forward to the promise of moral redemption. 
while we must wave our white flag in the battle of parietals, the war against unsacred gender relations can still be won. it is a sad concession, but we must face the reality of the times — we need to decrimi­nalize parietals to rehabilitate — in the same way we have been forced to accept the cold hard facts of our favorite presidential candidate being the Zodiac Killer. both are small but necessary setbacks; just as Ted cruz may still realize his dreams of world domi­nation, so too can notre dame restore its catholic identity — by not giving Joe biden the laetare medal. 
Natasha Reifenberg 
sophomore badin hall 
John Haley 
sophomore st. edward’s hall march 31 

Undermining the Notre Dame identity 
The recent announcement of the recipients of the laetare medal has caused us great concern. as the notre dame right to life club, our mission is to “promote and uphold the sanctity of all hu­man life from conception until natural death [...] in the spirit of the catholic church.” we would like to address why the decision of the university to bestow the award on vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner does not align with our efforts as a club, the mission of the university and the catholic faith. 
The question we want to present is: how can it be justifiable to present an award given “in recognition of outstanding service to the church and society” to individuals who directly oppose the church’s teach­ings? vice president biden has supported pro-choice politics, the death penalty and therapeutic cloning of embryos. while former speaker of the house John boehner is pro-life on the issue of abortion, he too has supported the death penalty. 
in “forming consciences for faithful citizenship: a call to political responsibility,” from the conference of catholic bishops of the united states, the bishops of the united states said: “The church calls for a different kind of political engagement: one shaped by the moral convictions of well-formed con­sciences and focused on the dignity of every human being ... we should be guided more by our moral convictions than by our attachment to a political party or interest group. when necessary, our par­ticipation should help transform the party to which we belong; we should not let the party transform us in such a way that we neglect or deny fundamental moral truths or approve intrinsically evil acts. we are called to bring together our principles and our political choices, our values and our votes, to help build a civilization of truth and love.” 

as someone who considers himself a practicing catholic, vice president biden has stated regarding the issue of abortion, “i accept my church’s position that life begins at conception. That’s the church’s judgment. i accept it in my personal life ... i just re­fuse to impose that on others.” in so doing, biden has appeared to be guided more by his attachment to a political party than by his moral convictions. he has placed a desire for political correctness and avoidance of conflict above a commitment to funda­mental catholic truths. 
Just this past year in the presence of the united states congress and both politicians in question, pope francis called for a “global abolition of the death penalty … [for] every life is sacred, every hu­man person is endowed with inalienable dignity and society can only benefit from the rehabilitation of those convicted of crimes.” contrary to this concept of human dignity, former speaker boehner voted against The second chance act of 2007 (h.r.1593), which was meant to expand reentry programming for offenders and their families and to enhance drug treatment and mentoring grant programs for federal inmates. earlier in his career, boehner voted in favor of the effective death penalty act of 1995 and also voted against an amendment to the effective death penalty and public safety act of 1996, which sought to protect the right of state death row prisoners to habeas corpus, an important protection against wrongful imprisonment. This disregard for the hu­man and constitutional rights of each human life, in­cluding prisoners, is inconsistent with both catholic teaching and what it truly means to be pro-life. 
The university’s reasoning for honoring biden and boehner with the award is the following: “in recog­nizing both men, notre dame is not endorsing the policy positions of either, but celebrating two lives dedicated to keeping our democratic institutions working for the common good through dialogue focused on the issues and responsible compromise.” we acknowledge and understand the university’s intentions of working against political polarization; however, encouraging healthier political discourse cannot lead to compromising our belief in the sanc­tity of all human life from conception until natural death. 
we believe that, by awarding the laetare medal to these leaders, the university has in fact compro­mised its catholic identity. disregarding the sanc­tity of life violates a very fundamental principle of catholic moral and social teaching. The medal bears the latin inscription, “magna est veritas et prevale­bit,” which translates to “Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail.” how can we bestow “the most prestigious award for catholics in america” to leaders who fail to protect the weakest and most vulnerable, a basic element of justice and a fundamental truth of the catholic faith? 
as the notre dame right to life club we are in disagreement with and saddened by the choice of the university to award Joe biden and John boehner with the laetare medal. we ask that the university live up to its catholic identity and the purpose of this prestigious award and please reconsider its decision. 
Notre Dame Right to Life Club 
march 25 


By KELLY McGARRY 
scene writer 
i was already looking forward to the old crow medicine show’s concert at the morris performing arts center in south bend on friday (look out for our cover­age of the event in monday’s paper), but recently, i discovered a new reason to be excited for the show: an opening perfor­mance by parker millsap, an emerging folk musician from oklahoma. 
a focus on mature themes and raspy vocals have gained the 23-year-old singer-songwriter a reputation for being “beyond his years.” yet, in a telephone interview with the observer from his home in nashville, Tennessee, millsap spoke with a youthful, honest-sounding demeanor, as he prepared for south by southwest. 
This is an exciting time for the young musician, as he anticipated the release of his apocalyptic sophomore album “The very last day.” he compared the album to his previous work candidly. 
“it’s different. i don’t know if ‘heavier’ is the right word, it sounds so preten­tious,” he laughed. “There’s more elec­tric guitar, there’s more percussion. it’s a little more layered than the last record.” his distinctions became clear with the album’s release on march 25. 
a humble, laid-back style underlies the album’s production. 
“it was just me and my friends hang­ing out in louisiana for two weeks,” millsap said. “we lived in the studio, we ate good food. it was like vacation. we played music all day.” still, the weighty subjects on the album come across with intensity. 
millsap remembers church as his first outlet for playing music with oth­er people, and later helped him blend influences. 
“i was exposed to a lot of blues early on, and then really quickly drew the line between gospel music, like the hymnals that we sang in church, and blues music; there’s something similar about those,” he recalled. The hymnals left their mark on his style of music, but he looks at religious themes with clear eyes. “i was raised in a pentecostal home. i wouldn’t call it strictly reli­gious. we didn’t have cable Tv but that was more of a financial decision than a moral one,” he said, once again with a laugh. 
his background fostered a love of folk and americana, but it also contrasts with his current lifestyle. 
“There are things i miss about oklahoma; oklahoma moves at a slow­er pace,” he said. “nashville — while not los angeles or new york city — it is a city. i’m from a town of about 75 hun­dred [people]. Things move faster [in nashville] — that takes getting used to. but i also love how green it is here. plants have an easier time growing here than they do in oklahoma.” his career has had an easier time growing there, too. 
when asked about his recent sources of inspiration, millsap spoke admirably of bob dylan. 
“he put out these two records in the 90s that are these old folk songs,” he said. “The story is he recorded them in his garage. he had two records left on his contract and he wanted to get out of the contract, so he just did ‘em in his ga­rage over a few days. but they’re great.” millsap’s inspiration from this style is evident in his covers of folk songs, such as “you gotta move,” on the new record. 

The upcoming show at the morris performing arts center will be another in a string of shows in which millsap has opened for old crow medicine show. he previously accompanied the group on their european tour. 
“it was our first experience really with a tour manager. we sound kind of high class,” he joked. “Just everything about it. you drive on the wrong side of the road. so much of touring life is about where are the good restaurants and that kind of thing and having a tour manager who can manage that. also, just being in europe where it’s a little more diverse as far as food goes. a lot of it’s more healthy, or locally grown at least. The crowds were hilarious.” he shied away from describing the wildest crowds with a “you don’t wanna know.” 
in addition to their tours with old crow medicine show, millsap and his band have toured the united states playing at many diverse shows. 
“i like playing at all different kinds of venues,” he said. “That’s kind of the fun of touring. we played at anything from a weight room to an rv park, but then we’ve also played to 15 thousand people in Jackson hole wyoming on the fourth of July. we’ve done a bunch of weird gigs, i like ‘em all.” 
after visiting many different plac­es, millsap cites his favorite as new orleans, along with the surprising choice of missoula, montana. 
“people show up to gigs and they’re pumped about it,” he said.”it’s also kind of a cowboy town, like a western movie. we pulled up to a gig the last time we played there — it’s like three o’clock in the afternoon on a Tuesday, and these six cowboys come barreling out of this bar [and] the cops wheel around the corner with their lights on. feels like a western movie.” The story sounds like it could have come out of one of millsap’s own songs. 
having supported notable art­ists of widely varying styles, such as houndmouth and patty griffin, millsap identified alabama shakes as the one band he would love to tour with in the future. 
“i love their new record,” he gushed, citing “gimme all your love” and “gemini” as favorite tracks. in the festival scene, millsap said that he hopes to perform at Telluride festival in colorado, noting his focus toward bluegrass. 
at the upcoming show, millsap will be joined by upright bassist michael rose, who he has played with since they were in junior high, and fiddle player daniel foulks. playing a mix of old and new tracks, the trio hopes to win over the old crow medicine show crowd, and, as millsap joked, “steal their business.” 
Contact Kelly McGarry at kmcgarry@nd.edu 


OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 


By NORA McGREEVY 
scene writer 
Jasmine van den bogaerde, a 19-year­old singer-songwriter from hampshire, england, who goes by the stage name “birdy,” released her third studio album this past friday, achieving in her still-young music career what other musi­cians can only dream of. 
To put this major achievement in con­text: as an almost-19-year-old myself, my victory of the week was to success­fully remove coffee stains from a shirt without calling my mom for advice. To each her own. 
birdy’s relative youth, however, is only one of the many reasons that this work is so impressive. Titled “beautiful lies,” this album marks a significant mile­stone in birdy’s artistic development 
— it is the first of her albums that does not include any cover. The poignant melodies, the exhilarating beat-of­your-own-drum pop anthems and even the mystical cover art all ooze “birdy.” unmistakably her own, “beautiful lies” forcefully demonstrates birdy’s skills and her confidence as a musician. 
The new album includes a range of styles, including a few upbeat, synth-filled anthems (“Keeping your head up” and “wild horses,” both released as singles prior to the full album) along­side much more somber selections, varying from the uncertain “deep end” to the outright heartbreaking “lost it all.” birdy claims that the album was in­fluenced by her trip to Japan; while it’s not overt, one can detect subtle move­ments in “growing pains” and “Take my heart,” especially, that evoke an eastern influence. 
birdy’s voice, however, easily out­shines every instrument. with its rich cadence and serene concentration, birdy’s vocals are a consistent para­dox: poignant yet a bit lofty in “Keeping your head up,” strong and clear even in moments of tender vulnerability in “beautiful lies.” The depth of her sound and impressive range make every melo­dy exciting, even if, like in the slight re­gression of “lifted,” the song itself feels a bit worn out. 
Thematically, “beautiful lies” deals with timeworn concepts such as loss of love, heartbreak and starting over, but in a surprisingly nuanced and mature fashion. “Keeping your head up” car­ries on like an old friend, versed in the ways of dealing with overwhelming sadness. birdy comforts with lines like “everyone keeps a darker place / To lose control, you’re not alone / and when you come looking for embrace / i know your soul; i’ll be your home.” meanwhile, “deep end” evokes the nebulous, ter­rific uncertainty preceding a breakup: “i don’t know if you mean everything to me / and i wonder, can i give you what you need?” 

This is primarily an album of heal­ing, evidenced by the fact that birdy reserves space for herself to grieve, as well. “beautiful lies,” the personal title track, immortalizes that drastic mo­ment of denial before the end of a rela­tionship: “Tell me beautiful lies / cover my eyes with your hands / Just pretend we’re better.” in these lines, birdy cries plaintively, her voice close to breaking. yet all of this grief and doubt is filtered through a mostly optimistic lens, es­pecially showcased in “wild horses”, a powerful ode to self-sufficiency. she sings — almost shouts — with joy pierc­ing through the sadness, as bass thumps and cymbals clash: “i will survive and be the one who’s stronger / i will not beg you to stay!” 
“beautiful lies” focuses on individual recovery. it’s fitting, then, that birdy’s finest artistic moments are those quiet ones in which her magical voice works alone. stripped of background noise save for an accompanying piano or vio­lin, her vocals shine. perhaps the best example of this comes in “unbroken,” a tender lullaby where birdy croons in a near-whisper: “many moons will lighten the way / and sure this night will follow a day / and everything you once loved remains / unbroken, unbroken.” 
i can’t speak for the weather in the united Kingdom this time of year, but i can say with certainty that in south bend, indiana, birdy’s album strikes the perfect tone for the season. it is a transi­tional album, just as late march and ear­ly april in indiana mark the beginning of the unpredictable changeover from winter to spring. birdy, on the precipice of recovery but not quite there yet, finds herself torn between looking back and looking forward. in the album, she accu­rately captures this confounding messi­ness of the healing process. ultimately, in “Keeping your head up,” she offers words of comfort that echo the com­ing of spring: “hold tight – you’re slowly coming back to life.” 
Contact Nora McGreevy at                            nmcgreev@nd.edu 
“Beautiful Lies” 
Birdy 
Label: Atlantic Tracks: “Unbroken,” “Beautiful Lies” If you like: Bon Iver, Adele, Florence + The 
Machine 



OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 



CroSSword | will shorTZ 
JuSt Add wAtEr | John roddy & eric carlson Sudoku | The mepham group 



fliNG by SPriNG | riley mccurrie horoSCoPE | eugenia lasT 

happy birthday: a watchful eye will be necessary when dealing with your reputation, status and getting ahead. you’ll face competition that will not play fair. your precision and dedication will help you overcome anyone who tries to mess with you. honor and glory will be your ticket to victory. change is inevitable and preparation will be essential. choose your battles wisely. your numbers are 5, 13, 22, 24, 31, 37, 46. 
birthday baby: you are practical, impatient and secretive. you are opportunistic and bold. 
aries (march 21-april 19): be careful not to push someone who is likely to push back. be willing to work alongside your competition and you will gain respect. let your discipline and energetic enthusiasm shine and you’ll be hard to beat. 

Taurus (april 20-may 20): be brave and express your thoughts and plans. don’t be afraid to try something new or to get involved in an unusual event or activity. The outcome will be enlightening and give you food for thought. romance is on the rise. 

gemini (may 21-June 20): helping someone out is fine, but if you loan out cash, it could ruin your friendship and leave you holding a bad debt. a secretive approach to something you want to develop will enable you to reach your goal without interference. 

cancer (June 21-July 22): you’ll be tempted to help someone who has a sob story. back up and rethink your position. you will gain far more if you put your effort in to your own ideas rather than someone else’s. romance will enhance your personal life. 

leo (July 23-aug. 22): check out the online job market and something will grab your attention and spark an idea that will enable you to advance. finding ways to entertain your peers or employer will put you in the running for a cushy position. 

virgo (aug. 23-sept. 22): don’t give in to personal conflict. Take care of business before you opt to have fun. reassure those who put demands on you that you will take part when the time is right. offering alternative incentives will lead to help, not hindrance. 

libra (sept. 23-oct. 22): don’t let emotional matters cloud your vision. make a point to learn something that will help you move in a positive direction and improve your chances of getting ahead. a business partnership will lead to an interesting alternative. 

scorpio (oct. 23-nov. 21): an old friend will play a role in a creative endeavor you want to pursue. offering to help one another will pay off and make your quest for success much easier. romance will enhance your day. 

sagiTTarius (nov. 22-dec. 21): don’t leave anything unfinished or you will face complaints. someone will be eager to make you look bad. add to your comfort at home and make sure to take the time to enjoy your hobbies and friends. 

capricorn (dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t give in to someone’s demands or pushiness. stand your ground and make it clear what you believe is best for you. put your thoughts on paper and draw up an agreement if necessary. better to be safe than sorry. 

aQuarius (Jan. 20-feb. 18): recognize and market your skills. what you have to offer can bring in extra cash and change the way people view you. home improvements should be geared toward making a space conducive to getting a project up and running. 

pisces (feb. 19-march 20): Know what you want, but go about getting it in a diplomatic manner. being too forceful will invite arguments and opposition. Try to attract opportunity by offering incentives to the people you need help from. 

JumblE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


To
 receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester 


name 
address 

city     state Zip 


SPortS Authority 
UConn’s success can’t be criticized 

Alex Carson 
assistant managing editor 
both the syracuse men’s and women’s basketball programs are headed for the final four. 
and i’m not sure which run is more surprising. 
simply comparing seeds would indicate the men’s team is the answer. given a no. 10 seed at the start of the tourna­ment, the orange became just the fourth double-digit seed to reach the final four since seed­ing began. 
unlike the men, the syracuse women were one of the better teams in their regional field. seeded fourth, the orange host­ed the first and second rounds of the tournament, before head­ing to sioux falls, south dakota, where they punched their first-ever ticket to the final four. 
and that’s where the unlikeli­ness comes in. most sports fans know that women’s college bas­ketball has been dominated by the teams at the top — 2015 was the second time in four seasons every no. 1 seed made the final four — and the teams on the biggest stage are, by and large, known quantities. 
but 2016 has been an outlier. in addition to the orange, no. 2-seeded oregon state and washington, a no. 7 seed, are making their first ever trips to the final four. 
on one hand, you have connecticut, the no. 1 overall seed and three-time defending champion, and on the other, you have the most parity the women’s game has maybe ever seen. 
it’s an odd juxtaposition, especially when framed in the context of the national debate, where columnists and fans are rushing to produce the “hottest” takes on connecticut’s domina­tion, which came to the fore­front after a 98-38 sweet 16 win last weekend. 
dan shaughnessy’s assertion that uconn’s success is “killing” the women’s game has taken a significant amount of heat — and for good measure. 
because at the end of the day, where so many programs have caught up to the lead in the women’s game — see oregon state, who didn’t make the tournament for nearly 20 years before entering the field in 2014 
— uconn’s stayed a step, or two, 
ahead of everyone else. 
what’s so bad about that? 
sure, that 60-point win isn’t 
the greatest thing for the wom­en’s game, but where was the outrage when Kentucky blasted west virginia by 39 in last year’s men’s sweet 16? or what about when Tiger woods won the 2000 
u.s. open by 15 strokes? The best historical context we have for connecticut’s domi­nance surely has to be John wooden’s ucla teams, that won 10 of 12 titles and seven straight during the 1960s and 1970s. They were some of the greatest teams in sports history, sure, but we obviously don’t sit here in 2016 talking about how those bruins “ruined” college basketball for good. 
The men’s game 40 or 50 years ago was, in many ways, where the women’s game is today. let’s recognize that. 
where the men’s game grew predominantly during the first few decades of the 1900s, the women’s one didn’t get a proper start until the 1970s, when the association for intercollegiate athletics for women (aiaw)­sponsored tournaments started to pick up steam. Take both of those dates out 40 years, and the dominance of ucla matches up fairly well with what we’re see­ing right now from connecticut. 
but despite what ucla did, of course, the rest of the country eventually caught up. i mean, consider this: from 1956 through 1976, one-third of champions finished the season undefeated — the first was san francisco in 1956, with the last being the 1976 indiana team. 
no squad has done it in the 40 years since. 
in the last 21 years of the women’s game? exactly eight teams have completed an unde­feated, championship-winning season. 
granted, connecticut is the heavy favorite to do it once more, but there’s ample evi­dence for the thought that its dominance won’t continue for longer — especially given breanna stewart, the best player to ever grace the women’s col­legiate game, will exhaust her eligibility this weekend. Taking stewart and moriah Jefferson out of the equation next year will make those huskies more vulnerable, and with more par­ity on the recruiting scene than ever, could spell the end of the dominance. 
but what if it happens sunday or Tuesday? if oregon state, syracuse or washington pulls off the upset in indianapolis, it’ll be one of the biggest sports stories in years. The “miracle on ice” would’ve been nothing if the soviet union hadn’t been so good. 
so let’s take a step back from the “killing the game” talk and implore everyone else to, you know, get better. 
and history says they will. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
trACk & fiEld 

barber, birzer dominate at yellow Jacket intivational 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 

after the women’s team placed fifth in the ncaa indoor cham­pionships to end notre dame’s indoor season, both irish squads opened their outdoor seasons last weekend at the yellow Jacket invitational and the raleigh relays. with both competitions being held on march 25 and 26, notre dame’s sprinters partici­pated in the invitational, while the long-distance runners trav­eled to the relays. 
notre dame’s top performer of the weekend was graduate stu­dent Kaila barber, who took first place in both the 100-meter and 400-meter hurdles at the yellow Jacket invitational. barber’s time for the 100-meter hurdles was 
13.04 seconds, while she com­pleted the 400-meter hurdles in 57.53. barber was named the acc performer of the week on Tuesday for her performance 
sophomore Jordan shead also competed in the 400-meter hur­dles, finishing behind barber in sixth place with a time of 1:00.04. 
shead and barber took third place in the women’s 4x400-me­ter relay alongside sophomores payton miller and parker english. 
freshman Kyla lewis replaced shead for the 4x100-meter relay, where the irish finished fifth with a time of 46.01. 
in the field events at the yellow Jacket invitational, freshman matthew birzer took fourth place in the high jump with a height of 
2.05 meters. birzer finished sec­ond at the acc indoor champi­onships and said his most recent performance is not indicative of his full potential. 
“i would have liked to have done better,” birzer said. “it was a little bit frustrating. i jumped [7’ 1”] at the conference meet and came out and jumped 6’ 8.25”, i think it was. Things just weren’t quite clicking right. it’s hard to be too disappointed — since it’s the first meet of the outdoor season, i haven’t jumped in a month, but ideally, i would have done better.” 
going forward, birzer said he plans to get his jumps in a more even range. 
“i’m looking to get more con­sistent,” birzer said. “my jump at [the acc] conference [cham­pionships] was three and a half inches better than i’ve ever jumped before. so if i can consis­tently get 6’ 11”, 7’ — that would be great.” 
at the raleigh relays, freshman rachel dadamio led the way with a sixth place finish in the 1,500-meter run with a time of 
4:24.85. Junior lexi pelletier and sophomore ashlyn rambo also crossed the finish line in 40th and 47th place, respectively, in the event. 
The yellow Jacket invitational and the raleigh relays marked the first events of notre dame’s outdoor season, which will continue this weekend at the stanford invitational in palo alto, california. as the outdoor season picks up, birzer said the team will look to increase its intensity. 
“outdoors, it’s a different sea­son,” birzer said. “we’ve taken close to a month off for a lot of us. so it’s a lot of time off, things go away in that time, so we’re get­ting back into it, and outdoors is a beast in and of itself. a lot of the groups right now are training a lot harder just because we are looking towards that end goal, which is a month down the line... conference, regionals and then nationals.” 
The irish will compete in the stanford invitational starting friday. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
Nd womEN’S Golf 

irish look to regain momentum in greensboro 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports writer 

The irish travel south this weekend to greensboro, north carolina for the bryan national collegiate Tournament with a chip on their shoulder, after a 11th-place showing at the lsu Tiger classic last week saw the team end its streak of 17 consecu­tive top-ten finishes. 
at the classic, notre dame finished with a total score of 70­over par 934 over three rounds. The team was led by senior cap­tain Talia campbell, who tied for 14th out of 96 competitors with a 12-over-par 228, giving the dallas native her 19th career team-leading finish. with this finish, campbell is now tied with former player becca huffer for second most team-leading finishes in team history. Junior Jordan ferreira tied for 31st with a 16-over-par 232. coincidentally, both players were the only two in the young irish lineup who had played at the Tiger classic before. 
“lsu is a really tough golf course, and the conditions were very difficult,” irish head coach susan holt said. “across the board, scores were high and a lot of good teams played bad, and we just happened to be one of them. i think it exposed some of the weaknesses the girls have in their games, and this past week we’ve just been focusing on improving those areas.” 
after a week and a half of prepa­ration, holt thinks the team has moved on and is ready for the op­portunity in greensboro. 
“i think they’ve put it in their rear view mirror. it happens — i mean, all teams have an off-day or an off-tournament,” she said. “i haven’t read much into it, and based on how we played [Thursday] in the practice round, i think we’ve moved past it. we worked on what we needed to in order to make improvements, and i think they’re ready to rebound and have a good performance this weekend.” 
The team heads into this week­end unranked and will match up against familiar acc opponents no. 20 virginia, no. 21 florida state, north carolina state and wake forest. holt said the irish are confident in their ability to perform well in the face of such familiar opposition. 
“we’ve beaten a lot of these teams this year already, and i think this is a great opportunity for us at this point in time to have another look at those teams and see where we’re at nationally,” holt said. “it will be a good mea­suring stick to see where we’re at.” 
with acc championships around the corner, this is the per­fect time for the irish to get in last-minute preparation. The team lineup is headlined by campbell, who currently has a career-low 
73.09 stroke average for the year. following her is ferreira and rounding out the squad is the freshmen trio of emma albrecht, maddie rose hamilton, and isabella dilisio. holt said her team is confident going into the weekend’s tournament. 
“if we come out of it on the other side having played well, it can’t do anything but boost our con­fidence,” holt said. “The reason why i come to this tournament every year now that we are in the acc is because it is the same type of terrain and grass that we are going to see at the accs in two weeks, so i think it’ll be a great preparation for that.” 
The tournament will take place this weekend from in greensboro with the first round slated to begin at 8:30 a.m. friday. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT paid adverTisemenT 





paid adverTisemenT 
w lacrosse 
conTinued from page 16 
ability to create possessions for her team. 
“we are going to battle, once again, against one of the top draw specialists in the country in sammy Jo Tracy,” halfpenny said. “she’s doing a great job on the draw, self-drawing to herself, creating a lot of pos­sessions for north carolina in that regard. so we’re go­ing to have to have our team strategy back at it again, utilize all of our weapons on the draw as well as on the circle, and then play our game. we’re going to have to stay focused on our game for a full 60 minutes against a great north carolina team.” 
halfpenny added her team had been focusing on the draw and has been improv­ing throughout the season. 
“i think that our draw game is just getting better and better,” halfpenny said. “it’s an area that i know we’ve focused on heavily, using not just our athleti­cism but really honing in on our skills, as well as us work­ing with our teammates, re­ally communicating, staying focused on the ball and our­selves. i think that’s been a huge takeaway lately.” 
The irish come into the game after a 17-9 win monday over marquette, led by a strong second half where the irish outscored the golden eagles (3-7, 0-0 
Nd SoftbAll 
big east) 7-2. halfpenny said her team’s offensive perfor­mance in recent games has been a particular highlight. 
“The opportunities we’re giving ourselves on the ball have been great,” halfpenny said. “we just have a really, really great, high-octane of­fense that’s doing a nice job of being proactive and ag­gressive at the goal. Those are some things that i’m re­ally proud of, getting great looks. at marquette, we got back to 50 percent shooting — that’s where we want to be to reach our end goal, so i’m excited to build on that, and just coming back to defense, the plays we’re making on defense to give ourselves more possessions has been really exciting to see, so i’m really proud of that, as well.” 

The game will begin at noon saturday at fetzer field in chapel hill, north carolina. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


notre dame to resume acc play, take on florida state 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports writer 
no. 20 notre dame returns to action this weekend when it welcomes no. 8 florida state for a three-game weekend conference series. 
The irish (25-5, 4-2 acc) are coming off a 5-0 midweek victory over ipfw. Junior pitcher rachel nasland won her ninth game of the season after pitching three scoreless innings and senior third base­man michaela arizmendi led the way for the irish offensive­ly with a home run and two rbis. The game was called in top of the seventh inning due to a thunderstorm, and with the victory, the irish extended their home non-conference winning streak to 16. 
nasland’s nine wins ranks second on the team behind only senior allie rhodes, who has 11. nasland does, how­ever, lead the team with a 1.42 era and has accumulated 60 strikeouts on the season. rhodes leads the team with 93 punch outs. 
The games against the seminoles (26-3, 6-0 acc) will be notre dame’s first confer­ence tilts since last weekend’s three-game series against syracuse. against the orange (16-15, 3-6), the irish won one of three games. The loss to the orange snapped notre dame’s 19-game winning streak. 
“of course, i feel like every conference game is impor­tant,” irish head coach deanna gumpf said. “right now my big thing is playing good, strong, solid, consistent softball.” 
florida state’s previous ac­tion against central florida was postponed due to weather and the seminoles’ last games were against north carolina last weekend. florida state swept the weekend series against the Tar heels and has not lost a game since february. 
“[it’s important we] have great at-bats and make sure we’re hitting pitches we want to hit and not getting caught up in their pitchers game,” gumpf said. “They’re a very good team, they make things happen, and we really have to focus on what we’re doing and not so much what they’re do­ing. if we focus on what we’re doing we’re going to be just fine.” 
against florida state, notre dame will look for continued production from the wester sisters. Junior centerfielder Karley wester and freshman second baseman ali wester currently lead the team in bat­ting average, at .461 and .436 respectively. The pair also lead the irish in hits at 53 and 44, and Karley wester recently became the youngest irish player to reach 200 hits. Karley wester also leads the team with 27 stolen bases on 30 at­tempts this year; ali wester is a prefect 14-of-14 on stolen base attempts. 
The weekend series is set to begin saturday at 1 p.m. at melissa cook stadium. The first game will be followed by a second matchup at 3 p.m. The series will culminate with a game at noon sunday. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu 


The observer | fridAy, APril 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


m lacrosse 
conTinued from page 16 
are pivotal for post-season seeding. after their win against the orange last year, the irish went on to win three straight, including wins against then no. 7 duke and no. 2 north carolina. The late-season win streak helped the irish earn the no. 1 seed in the acc tournament. 
“This game is very impor­tant to our season, especially because it’s an acc match-up,” sophomore attack mikey wynne said. “we go out and expect our best effort to win every game, so if we get any­thing less, we’ll be disap­pointed. This games result does not define our season by any means, but it would be a nice step in the direction that we want to go.” 
if the top-10 matchup head­line wasn’t enough, both the irish and orange will be led by two of today’s most promi­nent college players. senior attack matt Kavanagh is third in the nation in points with 193 among active players and orange senior attack dylan donahue is in second with 199 points. in last season’s matchup, donahue scored seven goals to force the contest into overtime. 
“[when i think of dylan donahue], i think of a great player who is smart and plays within his game,” wynne said. “he is so consistent and makes the plays that need to be made in order for syracuse to succeed. i respect his game and like the way he plays.” 
donahue leads syracuse this season with 33 point, including 20 assists and 13 goals. The camillus, new york native led the orange to a strong 5-0 start before drop­ping the last two contests to no. 9 Johns hopkins, and no. 11 duke in overtime. syracuse has not lost three straight games since 2007. 
“This is a syracuse team with some new faces and some familiar ones from last year,” junior goalie shane doss said. “playing at their stadium will be a tough challenge, and they are coming off of two tough losses, so they’ll be hungry for a win.” 
notre dame is coming off of two wins that were decided by just one goal against un­ranked opponents, but de­spite these close contests, the irish are confident that their play is only getting better as the regular season comes to a close. The irish has the na­tion’s top-ranked defense, allowing just 6.57 goals per game. That ranking will be challenged saturday against the fourth-ranked orange offense, which is averaging 
13.86 goals per game. 
“we’ve had two close games, but we feel that in a season 


baseball 
conTinued from page 16 
on the defensive side of the ball, the irish made a pair of highlight-reel plays in the top of the third inning. senior short­stop lane richards made a dif­ficult scoop on a ball that clipped the side of the mound before fir­ing to first just ahead of the run­ner. sophomore left fielder Jake shepski got in on the action with a sliding catch to end the inning, stranding the tying run at third base for the ducks. 
notre dame broke into oregon’s bullpen in the bot­tom of the fourth after the irish opened the inning with a single and a walk. biggio drove a ball off ducks freshman reliever Kyle robeniol to right field for a pair of rbis, both of which were attrib­uted to carranza’s final line, to extend notre dame’s lead to 4-1. 
oregon cut into the lead in the top of the fifth, however, as junior outfielder Jake bennett crushed a ball off the right-field fence for a double and his second rbi of the contest, making the score 4-2 and forcing senior starter michael hearne from the game. 
his replacement, senior right-hander connor hale, surrendered a single to senior designated hit­ter steven packard, allowing a run to make it 4-3, but a 4-6-3 double play ended the threat, preserving notre dame’s lead. Though he only threw 11 pitches in the game, hale’s short outing was enough to earn the win for notre dame. 
in the bottom of the sixth, the irish built themselves a golden scoring opportunity by working the bases loaded. freshman right fielder matt vierling drew a walk to make the score 5-3, but they were unable to take further ad­vantage, stranding three runners on base. 

notre dame added a late in­surance run with a gift from the ducks in the eighth inning. richards got on base thanks to a dropped ball in center field be­fore back-to-back wild pitches ad­vanced him from second base to home, all with two outs, to make it 6-3 and complete the scoring for the game. 
podkul, who finished the game with a walk, two hits and two runs scored, after the game dis­cussed what the team needs to do to continue its hot streak. 
“[we need to] keep having fun, keep playing with a high level of intensity and just go out there and do our thing,” podkul said. “we have the talent. we just have to trust ourselves.” 
The irish have a quick turn­around before their next game, as they welcome wake forest (17-10, 4-5 acc) to campus for a three-game set over the weekend. 
“Those guys can swing the bat,” aoki said. “Their numbers, quite frankly, are a little lower than what i thought, for a team that is as talented offensively as they are. … we’ve got to show up, and all facets of the game kind of have to show up at a pretty high level. if we do that, i feel really good about our chances playing whoever it is that we’re playing. but wake will be good. They’ll certainly be a stiff test for us.” 
first pitch friday is at 6:05 p.m. at frank eck stadium. action will get underway saturday at 4:05 
p.m. and sunday at 1:05 p.m. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
full of upsets, being able to get a win [against syracuse] is the most important thing,” doss said. “we’re looking at the mistakes that we made and things we need to do to put together a complete game, but, overall, we feel that we’re getting better every week.” 
notre dame will face off against syracuse on saturday at 5 p.m. in syracuse, new york. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 








football 
conTinued from page 16 
bench press. 
following the 40-yard dash and the cone drill, stanley, martin and offensive lineman matt hegarty worked through a series of position drills. stanley is projected by some to be a top-five draft pick, and martin is expect­ed to be selected in the second or third round. afterwords, martin talked about his approach to the draft process. 
“it’s a dream come true for all of us, it’s a pretty special thing,” he said. “… it’s special, doing it at the place we love. This is a very special university, it means a lot to all of us who’ve been here. 
“Just kind of out there doing drills, playing football. it’s nice because once that happens you kind of lock in, and that’s what you usually do. it’s just like a game. you don’t really hear the crowd, you ignore everything and focus on what’s at hand.” 
in the 40-yard dash, receiver paid adverTisemenT 
chris brown improved his draft stock by turning in a time of 4.44, which would have ranked as the fifth-best time for receivers at the nfl combine. fuller did not participate in the 40-yard dash after recording a time of 4.32 at the combine last month. fuller is considered by some to be one of the three best receivers in this year’s draft class, and brown said the high praise is well deserved. 
“he deserves every bit of that,” brown said. “he’s my brother, and i’m praying he goes in the first round because of how hard he works and all that. we work so hard behind the scenes, me and him. ... i’m just glad to be out here with him and show that i can play ball, too.” 
notably absent from the field drills was Jaylon smith, as the the fort wayne native is still re­turning to form after tearing his left knee’s acl and lcl during notre dame’s 44-28 loss to ohio state in the fiesta bowl. smith did, however, bench press 24 reps of 225 pounds in the weight room. 
“he was trying to be there for his teammates,” former team­mate and linebacker Jarrett grace said of smith. “he’s an incredible guy, an incredible athlete. … for [smith’s injury] to happen, it’s like, man, you feel awful. Thinking about his future as well, hopefully [the injury] doesn’t affect it at all because this has been his dream. he’s been working towards this for so long.” 
making his return to south bend after transferring to florida state for the 2015-2016 season was quarterback everett golson. golson clocked in a time of 4.82 in the 40-yard dash and ran through a series of passing drills with former teammates brown, fuller, receiver amir carlisle and running back c.J. prosise. 
“i feel i did good,” golson said. “i feel i made a little noise, lot of people probably weren’t expect­ing it. but i think i made some noise today.” 
golson said he does not regret his decision to transfer and dis­cussed his reasons for coming back to notre dame’s pro day. 
“as a man, i think you live with the decisions that you make,” he said. “and the decision at the time was to leave. i don’t regret that in the slightest, it’s about moving forward at this point. 
“i felt this is my alma mater. i wanted to be back with those guys. as it turns out, i didn’t have any wide receivers at [florida state] ... i want to take my hat off to ... the whole notre dame com­munity ... they’ve welcomed me back, so it’s been good.” 
cornerback Keivarae russell, a member of the “frozen five” was also present at pro day. russell started 11 games for notre dame this past season and recorded 60 tackles and two interceptions. 
russell’s day did not go as planned, however. The everett, washington native turned in the top 40-yard dash time of the day with a 4.43 on his first attempt, but he pulled his left-hamstring during his second attempt. despite the minor in­jury, russell still participated in the broad jump and notched a jump of 11 feet and 2 inches, which would have ranked sec­ond amongst all cornerbacks at the nfl combine. 
“it’s definitely frustrating,” russell said. “i think at the end of the day, if you look at it, you could say [that] i strained [my left hamstring] last friday. so you can evaluate ... [i’m] com­ing off of a broken leg and [i] got a strained hamstring and [i’m] top-five in damn near every cat­egory — that tells you what kind of athlete you’re going to get.” 
safeties elijah shumate and matthias farley and defensive lineman romeo okwara also took the field Thursday. farley finished the 40-yard dash with a time of 4.45, while shumate and okwara did not participate, hav­ing earned times of 4.58 and 4.90, respectively, at the combine. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu 


footbAll 
 Notre Dame hosts 17 former players at Pro Day 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
17 former irish players par­ticipated in notre dame’s pro day in front of scouts from 31 nfl teams Thursday at loftus sports center. 
of the 17 participants, a handful — including offen­sive linemen ronnie stanley and nick martin, linebacker Jaylon smith and receiver will fuller — are projected to be first-round or second-round draft picks. 
“[it’s] great,” defensive lineman sheldon day said. “especially seeing those guys 
— you haven’t seem them in three months. i’ve seen them at the nfl combine a little bit, but nothing like being back home and going to hang out again. it’s defi­nitely like old times.” 
day did not run the 40­yard dash, but completed 26 reps of 225 pounds in the 
see fooTball PAGE 15 

bASEbAll | nd 6, oregon 3 
irish beat ducks, win fifth straight 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
The rain couldn’t stop the red-hot irish on Thursday night and neither could oregon. in a game delayed by weather, notre dame (13-10, 4-5 acc) held off the ducks (11-10, 2-4 pac-12), 6-3, for its fifth consec­utive victory. 
irish head coach mik aoki credited consistency for the current streak. 
“i think we’re bringing all of the facets of the game togeth­er,” aoki said, “where i think earlier in the year — there cer­tainly were some games where they showed up together — but i think that we were incon­sistent in the way that maybe our hitting didn’t show up one day and our pitching wouldn’t show up a different day, or dif­ferent things like that. … our at-bats have been really good, and our pitching has settled down. i really think that this was the team that i saw coming out of the gate. unfortunately it didn’t work out that way, but a big credit to our guys. i think they’ve just kept battling through it and doing a really good job.” 
down a run after the first inning, senior catcher ricky sanchez got the offense start­ed for notre dame in the sec­ond inning with a drive to the right field wall for a triple off oregon freshman starter isaiah carranza. freshman third baseman nick podkul hit a scorcher between the div­ing glove of ducks sophomore first baseman Kyle Kasser and the bag that went all the way to the fence for a double to easily score sanchez from third. 
freshman designated hitter cole daily kept the rally go­ing with a single to left field. Two batters later, junior sec­ond baseman cavan biggio dropped an rbi single into cen­ter to score daily and give notre dame its first lead of the game, 2-1. 
see baseball PAGE 14 
Nd womEN’S lACroSSE 
squad readies to face Tar heels 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
Just over a week after a nar­row loss to no. 4 syracuse, no. 6 notre dame prepares for another top-five matchup with a conference opponent, as they travel to chapel hill to meet no. 3 north carolina. 
The Tar heels (9-2, 3-0) are currently undefeated in acc play, tied with duke atop the conference standings. The only two defeats they have suffered this season were close, back-to-back encoun­ters with florida, currently ranked no. 2 in the nation, and undefeated maryland, ranked no. 1. both games were settled by just a single goal. 
despite the success the Tar heels have had this season, irish head coach christine halfpenny said her team will remain focused on their own game. 
“north carolina is a top team,” halfpenny said. “i think that finishing on our plays and making big plays will be important. That’s what’s going to have to happen against carolina. we’re going to play the way we play — we’re going to fo­cus on ourselves, we’re going to play our style. They have a similar high-octane of­fense that we do. They’ve got their lefties, they’ve got their off-ball shooters, they’ve got their dodgers. we have the same thing, so it’s going to feel a lot like practice, to be honest, when we’re battling each other. we’re just going to be going up against a differ­ent color uniform.” 
The irish offense will face last year’s lacrosse magazine’s national goalie of the year in junior caylee walters, while for the draw, the irish will be compet­ing against senior attacker sammy Jo Tracy, who is third in the acc with 84 draw con­trols. with the irish having already faced the two con­ference leaders, louisville’s Kaylin morissette and syracuse’s Kayla Treanor, in their two defeats this year, halfpenny said it is impor­tant her team limits Tracy’s 
see w lacrosse PAGE 13 
mEN’S lACroSSE 

ND travels to Syracuse for conference clash 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame will begin the toughest stretch of its schedule as it trav­els to the carrier dome to face no. 7 syracuse on saturday. 
The two highest-ranked acc teams will go head-to-head for the fourth time as conference rivals since both teams joined the acc in 2014. The irish (6-1, 1-0 acc) lead the series since then by a 2-1 mark and will look to add another game to the win column in the rivalry, while attempting to win their first ever game in the carrier dome. The two programs have faced off a total of 11 times and the orange (5-2, acc 1-1) lead the all-time series, 8-3. last season, it took two overtimes, but the irish survived the match-up, winning 13-12. 
The irish understand that the implications saturday’s matchup carry 
see m lacrosse PAGE 14 






