The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 79 | THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
University releases early acceptances 
For the first time ever, students received an electronic decision instead of letters in the mail 
By KAYLA MULLEN 
associate news editor 
when the university of notre dame released its restricted early action acceptances to 1,610 students this past december, something was notably different 
— rather than issuing their usual blue and gold acceptance letters, notre dame welcomed students home with a celebratory web page, associate vice president of undergraduate enrollment donald bishop said. 
“The year before, in regular ac­tion, we found the u.s. mail ser­vice has become less dependable on timing — they’re getting there, but they’re taking longer,” bishop said. “ … students now post on their social media network that they were admitted, they text each other, they communicate in so many ways. nowadays, stu­dents are announcing their deci­sion, and other kids are waiting for the mail, so we literally had hundreds of anxious calls, wor­ried that they didn’t get a letter or that they assumed they were turned down since they didn’t get a letter right away. 


“it created a lot of anxiety, so with the u.s. mail service not as consistent, we talked to students … about this. They said, ‘look, everybody else does it electroni­cally, and while it is great to have the notre dame surprise in the 

see admiTs PAGE 4 LUCY DU | The Observer 



Rome Global Gateway adds new building 

Photo courtesy of the University of Notre Dame 

The new building in Rome, shown here, will serve as a home abroad for 100 students and a hall staff and rector to help manage the hall. 
Observer Staff Report 
Just weeks after unveiling substantial changes regard­ing student housing on its main campus, the university an­nounced wednesday that stu­dents studying abroad in rome global gateway programs will have a new place to live begin­ning in the fall of 2017. 
according to wednesday’s press release, notre dame re­cently purchased a villa on the caelian hill in central rome — a block away from notre dame’s home base in the city — which will house 100 students as well as hall staff and a rector. 
in addition to housing university students participat­ing in study abroad programs through a variety of institutions, the new residence building will house third-year architecture undergraduate students, who spend their entire junior year in rome as part of their curriculum. 
J. nicholas entrikin, vice presi­dent and associate provost for 
see rome PAGE 4 


2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: VINCENT PHILLIP MUÑOZ 
professor reviews campaign issues, upcoming primaries 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 

Editor’s Note: Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, The Observer will sit down with Notre Dame experts to break down the election and its im­portance to students. In this sec­ond installment, News Writer Rachel O’Grady asks Tocqueville Associate Professor of Political Science Vincent Phillip Muñoz about the upcoming prima­ries and the biggest issues of the campaign. 
rachel o’grady: with the iowa caucuses just a few days away and new hampshire not long after, what should we be looking for as the results come in? 
professor muñoz: i suppose the number one question for the republican primary is: do Trump supporters actually turn out to vote? if they don’t, the donald might be in for a quick fall. or perhaps that’s just my wishful thinking. For the democrats: can bernie sanders actually win one of the early states and, if he does, can he transform that victory into a perception that he could actually defeat clinton? and if Trump and sanders win in iowa and new hampshire, expect lots of talk about a third party challenger mounting a run 
— bloomberg? 
rog: The average age of supreme court justices right now is 75, so it is likely our next president will have at least one supreme court nominee. how 
see campaign PAGE 5 


Saint Mary’s faculty showcase personal art 
By MARTHA REILLY 
news writer 

wednesday night’s open­ing reception for the saint mary’s faculty art exhibition proved art is at the heart of the college’s mission to engage the community in distinct learn­ing experiences. The exhibition showcased photographs, sculp­tures, textiles and ceramics by saint mary’s faculty. 
gallery director and assistant art professor ian weaver said he hopes viewers appreciate the various research pursuits incor­porated in this showcase, which will remain open for six weeks in moreau galleries. 
“even though we teach in a particular area, we have diver­gent and multivalent interests which make their way into our work,” weaver said. “This is an important example for students to see: how diverse an artistic life can be.” 
see eXhibiT PAGE 5 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 6 men’s baskeTball PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What is one food you would never taste again? 

Chris Revord 


Alex Alcantara 
senior 

junior 
Zahm house 

alumni hall 
“Q dogs.” 

“vegemite.” 
Eddie Griesedieck 


Courtney Lefevre 
freshman 

junior 
Zahm house 

breen-phillips hall 
“north dining hall.” 

“Tofu.” 
John Brolly 


Megan Parisi 
freshman 

junior 
Zahm house 

breen-phillips hall 
“kale.” 

“sour straws.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 
kayla mullen alex carson 

Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

selena ponio manny de Jesus kathryn marshall hunter mcdaniel 
Graphics Scene 

lucy du adam ramos Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
Photo Viewpoint 

chris collins scott olehnik Mindful Meditation Lecture: “Centuries Benefit Dinner for Men’s Basketball vs. “No Cross, No Coleman-Morse of Shakespeare” Christian Refugees Wake Forest Crown” Center Hesburgh Library Remick Commons Purcell Pavilion Snite Museum of Art 
5:15p.m.-6:15 p.m. 4 p.m-5 p.m. 7 p.m-9 p.m. 1 p.m-3 p.m. all day 
Corrections 

All students, faculty Michael Witmore will Funds raised for The Irish take on the Print exhibition by 
The observer regards itself as and staff may attend. present. persecuted Christians. Demon Deacons. James Barry. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
“Iron Sharpens Iron” Graduate Student 27th Annual Student La Misa en Español “African American 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Christian Fellowship Mass Film Festival Dillon Hall Voices” 
however, recognize that we will make 
Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Snite Museum of Art 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
Center Heart Arts Center All are welcome to this all day 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. Mass celebrated in African-American 
we can correct our error. 

Student-led worship. Seating will be reserved. Student-produced films. Spanish. artwork exhibition. 


Professor promotes the importance of sleep 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
sleep deprivation is an epi­demic across college cam­puses and its pernicious effects often go unnoticed, according to Jessica payne, nancy o'neill collegiate chair in psychology. 
payne delivered a talk titled “The neuroscience of being your best self” in Jordan hall on wednesday and focused on the importance of sleep. 
“i’ve spent years and years working with students and now over 10 years working with corporations and it’s very clear to me, you are tru­ly going to be at your best — and that means best in terms of grades, best in terms of athletic performance, best in terms of creativity — you re­ally need three fundamental cognitive functions in order to do that,” payne said. 
according to payne, these three factors are good sleep, moderate stress and positive emotions. payne said these cognitive functions are all interrelated and and often declines and deprivations in one will lead to damaging consequences for the other two. 
“The good news is that for any one of those areas you decide to get better and re­ally improve, you’ll see im­provements in the other ones as well,” payne said. 
Quantity and quality of sleep are often the most lack­ing components of optimal brain function for college students, payne said, be­cause of bad habits like all-night cramming sessions or simply underestimating how much sleep is necessary and healthy. payne said as much as college students might wish they could somehow live without sleeping at all, sleep remains an integral and essential aspect life for not only humans, but also for animals. 
“There is no known way to replace or effectively simu­late sleep,” payne said. 
Therefore, payne said, it is vital to maximize the effec­tiveness of sleep and encour­age students to take stock of their own sleeping habits and work to improve on them. 
payne said the mean amount of sleep needed is approximately eight hours, but follows the a normal or bell curve distribution meaning the amount of sleep needed varies somewhat per person. however, payne, said the vast majority of people will fall in seven to nine hour range. 

“regardless of the specific amount that you ... need to be at your best, you really need to go ahead and get that be­cause if you don’t, you might as well be drunk — but you’re going to be having a lot less fun,” payne said. 
often the reason behind people neglecting to get proper sleep, payne said, is a mistaken belief that sleep is a relatively useless inactive state 
“most people think sleep is a dormant state; most people think sleep is a time where the brain is just switched off, [where] it’s powered down like a computer, it’s shut down like a car, it’s rest­ing, maybe it’s rejuvenating but it’s not doing anything,” payne said. 
payne said this widespread fallacy lingers despite con­tradicting well-established science. 
“your brain when you’re asleep is highly active, in­tensely active,” payne said. 
according to payne, some regions of the brain including the hippocampus, the amyg­dala and the anterior cingu­late cortex are, in fact, more active during sleep than wakefulness. These regions are associated with memory and learning, making them especially important for col­lege students, payne said. 
“we can test for memory in two ways: for specific details and to remember the gist,” payne said. 
payne said studies have shown that both kinds of memory are dramatically impacted by how many hours the subjects of the test had slept. 
moving on to the other two factors influencing brain function, payne said, moderate stress is benefi­cial for the cognition. This is described by the yerkes­dodson law, which shows an absence of stress results in apathy, boredom and tired­ness, while a surplus of stress is debilitating, payne said. however, college students are much more likely to be over-stressed than suffering from a lack of stress, so they should focus on stress reduc­tion methods such as getting adequate sleep, exercise, so­cial support and relaxation training, which includes yoga and meditation, payne said. according to payne, re­laxation training and medi­tation in particular can lead to profound and positive changes in the brain. 
“when we talk about build­ing neural real estate, i’m not saying you have to go to Tibet and become a monk for 20 years," payne said. "i’m say­ing look at this eight-week experiment where people had no idea what meditation even was and for eight weeks, [then] they meditate for 20 minutes a day and, all of a sudden, at the end of eight weeks, they see all these changes i’m talking about." 
payne said creating a posi­tive emotional state is also vital for college students, and she recommends many of the same methods for re­ducing stress, but also em­phasizes emotion regulation strategies. These techniques range from simply recogniz­ing and labelling emotions to reappraising negative situ­ations and training yourself to present to the moment, payne said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 

sab aims to foster community through comedy 
sab president, senior This is the perfect opportunity were showcased. after receiving the input from the 
By NICOLE CARATAS 

news writer colleen michael, said sab’s fo-to relax and have a good laugh, the conference, the sab student body. it was great to cus this year is to provide stu-to take a break from the home-entertainment committee re-see their enthusiasm by vot­comedian aisha alfa will dents with the opportunity to work, the papers, the tests and searched the various perform-ing. it is important that we are fill the room with laughter attend new and unique events. do something fun.” ers. after three performers providing the students with wednesday in saint mary’s “bringing performers and michael said she wanted to were chosen as finalists, a sur-what they want to participate carroll auditorium at 7:30 outside vendors allows stu-get students’ input on who to vey was sent to students and in; voting is a great way to 
p.m. as she cracks jokes dur-dents to experience something bring to campus. she and oth-hundreds of students selected ensure we are meeting their ing her comedy performance exciting and out of the ordi-er members of sab attended alfa, michael said. expectations.” sponsored by the saint mary’s nary,” michael said. “classes the national association of “students have and should michael said the board’s sec-student activities board are starting to kick into high campus activities conference have a voice on campus,” ond goal for the year is to focus (sab). gear, if they have not already. where a number of performers michael said. “i really enjoyed on the college’s core value of 

fostering community. paid adverTisemenT 
“bringing a comedian gives the student body, as well as the tri-campus community, the opportunity to come to­gether,” michael said. “when you ask a saint mary’s stu­dent what her favorite part about saint mary’s is, there is a high chance she will say community. events such as [a comedy show] will foster this community.” 
michael said by focusing on the community aspect of the event, students will have the chance to meet and spend time with other students who they regularly would not encounter. 
“it will bring students to­gether for something fun and light,” michael said. “it brings people together who normally do not see each other because of different majors or different class years. … what better way to bring people together than through laughter?” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



SENATE 

Group reflects on inaugural Walk the Walk Week 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
notre dame’s student senate met wednesday evening to ex­change feedback pertaining to notre dame’s celebration of martin luther king Jr.’s legacy and the university’s inaugural walk the walk week. 
senators raised concerns about the effectiveness of this year’s scheduling and potential improve­ments for next year. 
discussion lent itself to the pos­sibility of a university-wide holiday without class. 
Admits 
conTinued From page 1 
mail, it’s more humane to let us know right away.’” 
students embraced the new method of releasing decisions, bishop said. 
“The time at which the de­cision became available was 
6:42 p.m., which is 18:42 and we were founded in 1842, so we tried to be a little clever,” bishop said. “The vast majority of students opened their deci­sion within the first hour.” 
The admissions department accepted 1,610 students from the 5,340 students who applied for early action, bishop said. however, receiving an early action acceptance from notre dame is as difficult, if not more difficult, than being accepted during the regular decision period, bishop said. 
“we have early action to give students the most freedom of 
“It’s that added on philosophy of service to others and, if you will, the ‘goodness’ factor that some group of students really find compelling and they trust that. They believe that Notre Dame is very unique in that, and Notre Dame becomes their only school.” 
Donald Bishop 
associate vice president 
undergraduate enrollment 
final choice, so while if they get in here early, they still have the freedom of choice,” bishop said. “if we are willing to give them that freedom — we are not forcing an agreement from them like the early decision program — therefore, notre dame should not make it eas­ier to get in if you apply early. 
“The process, when all the early action applications are in, we review the whole group. 
“one big concern was faculty — are they going to come in if if they don’t have a class to teach? same thing with the students — if you get out of bed and go to a 9 a.m. [class], you might as well go to this [celebration] luncheon. as op­posed to [thinking], ‘it’s a three-day weekend, i’m going to go out drinking on a sunday night,’” stu­dent body president bryan ricketts said. 
in addition to discussion of walk The walk week, the senate ap­proved the nomination of a new director of gender issues, sopho­more alex eisele. 
we try to make the same ad­missions decision whether you apply early or regular.” 
of the students accepted in early action, 46 percent are from public schools, 41 per­cent from catholic schools and 13 percent from private and charter schools, bishop said. The students represent 47 states and the district of columbia and 31 different na­tions, bishop said. 
“There’s more diversity — geographical diversity, more ethnic diversity,” bishop said. “we also have a rise in the top percent of the pool — it’s more dynamic.” 
applications were up 21 per­cent this year, bishop said. bishop traced this to the im­plementation of new recruit­ing programs. 
“we have done, in the last four years, we have built a new model of recruitment, with earlier contact,” bishop said. “we invested in a new cus­tomer relations software, and we are starting to use that in a more personalized way, in more contact with our pros­pect pool — better relation­ship development.” 
bishop said he also be­lieved this rise to be due to the message and spirit of notre dame, he said. 
“we have a value-centered approach, not just to selec­tion but also how students are selecting us — we talk about coming to notre dame and not just being at a top 15 college in selectivity, but be­ing at a school where you’re going to make a difference in the world, where you’re go­ing to be a force for good,” bishop said. 
“we talk a lot about the philosophy of notre dame, not just the quality of notre dame. it’s that added on phi­losophy of service to others and, if you will, the ‘good­ness’ factor that some group of students really find com­pelling and they trust that. They believe that notre dame is very unique in that, and notre dame becomes their only school.” 
Contact Kayla Mullen at  kmullen2@nd.edu 

ricketts nominated eisele for the position after a thorough interview process. 
“alex has been a good friend of many of the members of student government. … we talked to her about her experiences with the it’s on us campaign and greendot and her involvement with that,” ricketts said. “we were very im­pressed with the way that, even though she wasn’t formerly in­volved in student government, she really took to heart the messages of the campaign.” 
members of senate proceeded to discuss and pass sophomore sara dugan, parliamentarian, as an acting and non-voting mem­ber of Judicial council’s election committee. 
This order was due to the fact that ricketts and Zach waterson, Judicial council president, are cur­rently searching for a new director of internal affairs, a position previ­ously held by sophomore student body vice-presidential candidate rebecca blais. 
dugan’s role will include im­partially advising the election committee on all constitutional matters, effective immediately, due to her extensive knowledge of the 
paid adverTisemenT 
student government constitution. 
Junior isabel Fox, ryan hall senator, expressed concern to­wards dugan being the roommate of blais, sensing a possible conflict of interest. 
waterson stated that dugan will have a “fairly minor role” and will help the election committee understand the context of the constitution’s clauses in the case that there is a violation of election rules and procedures. 
Contact Justine Wang at  jwang27@nd.edu 
“it was built in 1913 by the duchess of pontalto, and the family of the count of loschiavo lived there dur­ing the early 1900s,” he said. “when italy’s racial laws led to the eviction of Jewish chil­dren from the italian schools in 1938, the Jewish community of rome used it as a school. The italian military police took up residence there from 1940 until recent times.” 
Rome 
conTinued From page 1 

internationalization, said the purchase would expand cur­rent study abroad program­ming and research in rome. 
“The purchase of the villa expands the horizon of pos­sibilities both for the gateway and for the longstanding notre dame architecture program in rome,” etrikin said. “The university’s strategic and wise investment in the villa will greatly increase student and faculty opportunities for study and research in the heart of the eternal city.” 
Theodore J. cachey Jr., aca­demic director of the rome global gateway, described the history of the building, which was purchased for an undis­closed amount. 





Exhibit major in art should visit the 
exhibition, for they can gain 
conTinued From page 1 
a better appreciation for 

The exhibition features different forms of artistic a range of content, from expression. a series of photographs “creative thinking is need-documenting a character’s ed for any kind of major,” struggle with anxiety to tex-kincaid said. “i think art in tile pieces depicting how general is a big part of the the environment transforms community here.” over time to sculptures link-Junior amy harmon said ing all humans back to a com-she enjoyed watching her mon foundation. weaver said professors be the center of at-students should take advan-tention for once, since they tage of this opportunity to normally focus on helping view their professor’ work. the class. 
“i believe it is important “it’s kind of like seeing mas-that the students have real-ters in action because they world examples of artists who spend all their time improv­make work,” weaver said. “it is ing their students, but we also important for them to see don’t usually get to see them that the concepts we speak just working for themselves,” about in class aren’t just ab-harmon said. “it’s cool to see stract, but are realized in the stuff that they’re proud of. it’s objects and images that fac-good to see them in action.” ulty produces.” Junior brigid Feasel said 
sophomore mia kincaid she recognizes art as a valu­said attending the reception able form of self-expression, showed her the importance so she especially appreciates of supporting an artist’s jour-that this exhibition grants ney from beginning to end. her the chance to see work 
“i’ve seen so many profes-from professionals. sors’ work in progress, so to “it’s one thing to hear them see it now as part of a total tell us about art, but it’s an-piece is even more impres-other to actually be shown sive,” kincaid said. “The fin-what their ideas are,” Feasel ished product is really cool. said. “There are so many dif­seeing this is almost like ferent ways to express your-seeing a lot of problems that self. art is interdisciplinary.” have been solved in some cre-students should embrace ative way.” art’s ability to transform 
kincaid said she under-them as they encounter it in stands the courage it takes daily tasks, such as visiting to display one’s work, due to this exhibition, according to the fact that her art major re-weaver. quires her to submit a portfo-“in art, we have emotion, in­lio review each semester. tellect, fear, awe, humor and 
“That’s kind of a harrowing many other forms of expres­experience because you’re sion,” weaver said. “in our putting yourself out there,” contemporary world, where kincaid said. “seeing your reflection and space and con-professors do the same is sideration of what is commu­knowing that they are being nicated isn’t always a priority as conscious as you are in for some, art is even more im­your art. it’s like they had the portant. That is something we same sort of feelings as you don’t ever want to lose.” do.” 
according to kincaid, even Contact Martha Reilly at those who do not intend to mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 

Campaign 
conTinued From page 1 

does that play into the primary and, more importantly, the gen­eral election? 
vpm: given the blockbuster cases that have been or will be decided before november, i expect we will hear quite a bit about the supreme court and the type of justice each candi­date would appoint. perhaps it’s because it’s still relatively early, but i’m surprised we have not heard more about how a cruz presidency coupled with a republican senate might ac­tually lead to a reversal of the court’s decision to protect same-sex marriage. That’s a long shot for any number of reasons, but given that Justice ginsburg is 82 and Justice breyer is 77, it’s not out of the question. and if hillary clinton were to win and Justice scalia were to leave the court (he is 79), the court would surely move to the left, likely ensuring another generation of constitutional protection for abortion. 


rog: There are a number of important supreme court deci­sions that have happened under the obama administration, many of which republicans have called unconstitutional, and we’re hearing a lot about it during the debates. does this end up being a long-term issue? 
vpm: supreme court de­cisions are almost always a long-term issue, which is one of the reasons why they are so important. 
rog: in your research and opinion, what do you think will be the most important is­sue in the general election? 
vpm: president obama’s re­election in 2012 was the first time in my political lifetime (thankfully, i’m too young to remember Jimmy carter) that the country elected a pro­gressive president. in 2008, obama presented himself as “post-partisan,” but that wasn’t possible or plausible in 2012. in november, we will find out if the country wants to continue down a progressive path. 
rog: Taking it back to col­lege campuses, particularly here at notre dame, what is­sues do you think students need to be paying attention to in the coming months? 
vpm: since gay rights and religious freedom (not to men­tion free speech, affirmative action and campaign finance reform) are significantly im­pacted by the judiciary, un­derstanding the type of judges and supreme court justices a candidate would appoint is critically important if one wants to vote intelligently on these issues. This, of course, is one of the reasons we start­ed the constitutional studies minor. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 


INSIDE COLUMN 

our failing schools 

Alex Carson 
associate sports editor 

when i came to notre dame five semesters ago, i don’t think i would’ve considered it. even now, i’m not sure i will when i’m done getting my education. 
but i want to teach high school. 
given one requirement though: That i’m doing so in a student-oriented environment. unfortunately at most places in this country, both in public and private education, that simply isn’t the case. and that’s an issue. 
i’m an indiana native, so i’ve seen firsthand how backward policies from our statehouse do irrepara­ble damage to the education system. From budget cuts to open enrollment and vouchers through the introduction of more money into the charter school system, and out of the public one, it’s been one blow after another to education — and it’s piled up as schools across indiana are facing teacher shortages. 
of course, this isn’t anything new. when the united states overemphasized standardized test­ing as part of “no child left behind,” a policy geared more toward public policy and evaluation rather than inward toward students, it started a nasty trend that’s spiraled out of control. in many classrooms, our teachers are forced to teach their students how to do well on the year-end assess­ment, not the content that’s actually vital to make academic progress. and in enough of them, even if teachers wanted to do the latter, they couldn’t, as too-large class sizes prohibit educators from prop­erly educating each individual student. 
and it goes beyond standardized testing. Take open enrollment, a policy in indiana in which stu­dents can attend schools that “open their doors” outside their home district. it’s a great theory from education reform buffs: if a school isn’t performing well, perhaps another will be, taking the students from the former school. it increases school choice for families who may live in a poor school system. what’s not to love? 
my response? why don’t we focus on making every school in the state a quality one for students to attend, rather than furthering a gap between rich and poor? 
The same goes for charter schools, which primar­ily serve to line the pockets of the political donors 
— sorry, businessmen — that run them, not the students. in indianapolis, plenty of charter schools fail to outperform their traditional public counter­parts; and those that do see large enrollment drops from year to year after kids can’t handle the work and are run off from the school. 
our state prioritized loaning money to charter schools over public ones in the last cycle, allowing charters to “borrow” tens of millions just two years after the state paid off $90 million in charter school loans. 
and none of it gets into the damage open enroll­ment, vouchers and charter schools do to local communities, deemphasizing the role of schools as being at the center of a community’s spirit. 
education needs a bigger reform than 500 words allows for. but at the core, let’s start down a differ­ent path: 
doing what’s best for the students we’re sup­posed to serve. not administrators, legislators or their campaign donors. 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Disingenuous Donald 
Eddie Damstra 
dinner Table Talks 

donald Trump is a political phenomenon. The 69-year-old billionaire can seemingly insult anyone he wants without fear of his poll numbers suffering. Thousands come to see him speak. we are told this is because Trump says “whatever he wants.” There seems to be a belief that mr. Trump just speaks his mind, without utilizing a political filter. even the most avid donald Trump haters seem to concede this point. The general consensus seems to be that donald Trump is inexperienced, repulsive and narcissistic, but, at the very least, he is authentic. however, in real­ity, calling Trump “authentic” could not be more of a mischaracterization of the businessman. in fact, in addition to the aforementioned characteristics given to Trump, one should also include “inauthentic.” 
Trump’s soaring poll numbers cannot be solely ex­plained by an angry sentiment felt amongst a faction of the republican party. There is a much larger factor that plays into Trump’s political invincibility: decep­tion. while all politicians pander to their political bases, Trump does so more severely and more decep­tively. most of what he says he either does not believe or knows to be impossible. 
in Trump’s book “The america we deserve” from 2000, he advocated for waiting periods and an assault weapons ban; he now opposes nearly any gun control measure, even the expansion of background checks. in a 1999 interview on “meet the press,” Trump said he believed in “universal healthcare;” he now calls obamacare “a disaster” and labels it unconstitutional. donald clearly defined himself as “pro-choice in every respect” in that same “meet the press” interview 17 years ago; he now claims to be a staunch pro-life ad­vocate. Trump has donated money to hillary clinton’s campaigns and her foundation, invited her to his wedding and complimented her senatorial skills; he now makes sure to ridicule her at every chance, even saying that she was “the worst secretary of state in the history of our nation.” The man was a democrat seven years ago for heaven’s sake. 
To be honest, i am not sure what Trump believes or where he truly falls on the political spectrum. however, i know for sure that the severity of his con­servatism can be questioned based on his past politi­cal positions. nonetheless, he recognizes that in order to win votes, he must appeal to the very conservative base of republican primary voters, and he does so better than anyone else. he utilizes peoples’ anger by creating scapegoats, namely mexicans and muslims. he says mexicans are rapists and murderers and that muslims should be unable to enter this country based on their religious identity. he spews this hateful rheto­ric because right now many are angry, and he knows that taking advantage of that anger can garner sup­port for his campaign. 
Trump also promises things that he must know to be impossible. The prime example of this is his promise to build a wall that covers the u.s.–mexico border and have mexico pay for it. The spokesman for the mexican president has already delivered a statement saying that mexico would never pay for the wall, and that the mexican government does not take statements made by the Trump campaign seriously. mr. Trump must know that he is running most of his campaign on an empty promise, but he does not seem to care. he knows his promise, while it may be empty, can win a lot of votes. 
unfortunately, Trump’s strategy is not unique. a lot of politicians pander for votes. many politicians say things they do not believe, deliver false promises and take advantage of voters’ emotions. The difference between Trump and other candidates, however, is that Trump is acting identical to nearly every politician while simultaneously garnering enormous support for not being a politician. in other words, Trump is essentially a politician who gets support for not be­ing a politician. i understand that Trump does not practice politics as a career, which would define a politician. however, “politician” in the modern age is often viewed as a dirty word, synonymous with “fraud,” “liar” and “inauthentic.” in that sense of the word “politician,” donald Trump meets the criteria perfectly. 
The true miracle behind the Trump campaign is his ability to fake authenticity. ask any Trump supporter and they will most likely tell you that they love the fact that donald is a political outsider, not dirtied by the corruption and dishonesty of politics. The sad real­ity is that these Trump supporters are simply being played by the billionaire. donald Trump is even more disingenuous than the average politician. 
so go ahead, vote for donald because you liked “The apprentice.” vote for him because you like his hotels. vote for him because you like his mysterious hair. but please, whatever you do, do not vote for him because you find him authentic. 
Eddie Damstra is a freshman from Orland Park, Illinois. He is majoring in political science and is con­sidering attending law school after his time as an un­dergraduate at the University of Notre Dame. He can be reached at edamstra@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“i’ve come to terms with the fact that uncertainty is an inescapable corollary of life. an abundance of mystery is simply part of the bargain.” 
Jon Krakauer Writer and mountaineer 



The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
all my students don’t need a pulitzer 
Courtney Phelan 
english major in the real world 

To become an elementary school teacher, you major in education. To become a second­ary school (middle or high school) teacher, you major in the subject you want to teach and earn a minor in secondary education. while teach­ing english at the secondary level isn’t the only use for a degree in english, it’s mine. i want to be a middle school english and language arts teacher. 
when i tell this to people for the first time, i often get looks of confusion and the simple question, “why?” recently, when talking with a woman in one of my non-english classes, she told me that she hated english and language arts in school. 
“i’m not good at writing. and all my english teachers expected me to like, win the pulitzer or something.” 
so i want to make this nice and clear: all my future students don’t need to win a pulitzer. 
assuming that i’ll have the career i aspire to­ward, i’ll teach thousands of students during my time in the classroom. and i would hate myself if every single one of those thousands of students became a professional writer or literary scholar. 
i don’t want to teach english and language arts because i think that every person on this earth needs to go into an english- or language arts-based career. i want my future students to be entrepreneurs, farmers, doctors, nurses, cos­metologists, lawyers, social workers, architects, construction workers, therapists, civil engineers, computer engineers, mechanics, professional artists, actors, musicians, public servants and anything else they can be. 
so why do i still want to teach english if i don’t want thousands of future authors of shakespeare critiques? because i want my students to learn the skills of using the english language and be able to apply those skills in whatever they chose to do. english is more of a skill-building class, like math, than a content-based class, like his­tory or biology. Just like math teachers teach students how to multiply and divide so they can eventually determine unit prices or how much paint they need to buy, i want to teach english so that my students can apply the skills i’ve taught them to make their lives better. 
i’m not going to teach shakespeare’s “Julius caesar” because intricate knowledge of the characters and plot is crucial information for ev­eryday life, like knowing who won the american civil war or knowing not to mix bleach and ammonia. 
i want to teach “caesar” so that my students can recognize verbal irony so they don’t share articles from The onion on Facebook think­ing that it’s serious. i want to teach “caesar” so that my students can see and learn to recog­nize equivocation so that they don’t get taken advantage of in the future. i want to assign my students essays about “caesar” so that they can practice gathering evidence and arranging it in a persuasive manner, so that they can someday gather evidence to convince their boss that their team’s blueprint is the best one for the company. i want to make my students give a short speech in front of the class like antony’s, so that one day, they’re not scared to stand up in front of a room full of people and give instructions. 
Quite simply, i want to teach english because i want my students to be able to use language ef­fectively. when you start thinking about it, you use the skills that you learned in english classes every day. Think about replying to this column, for example. you have to weigh the pros and cons of responding and whether you agree or dis­agree. you have to determine what exactly you liked or didn’t like, and to give your argument weight, why you like or didn’t like it — did i not provide evidence? do you have anecdotes or evi­dence about evil english teachers that contradict what i say here? were my arguments logically invalid? was i so disorganized that you were able to read what i was saying? 
you then have to organize what’s on your mind into some form of coherent language. you then have to type it in using some form of spelling, grammar and syntax so others can understand what you’re saying. you have to decide what you want to emphasize and how you’re going to do that. you should probably proofread to make sure that i understand what you’re saying. 
so if you want to disagree with me, go ahead and write me a long, detailed, well-researched comment or email about why you disagree. you’ll be making your middle school language arts teacher proud. 
Courtney Phelan is a junior English major living in Le Mans Hall. All she wants is for her cats to be proud of her someday. She can be reached at cphela01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the au­thor and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Who is walking the walk? 
Michael Finan 
guest columnist 

last week, i began my walk to explore diver­sity and the current issues regarding race in our nation. i had the opportunity to hear the co-founders of black lives matter talk about their movement; listen to the president emeritus of notre dame, Fr. monk malloy, c.s.c., share his own reflections on diversity; and engage with other students in conversations about race. walk the walk week had successfully encouraged me to start walking; however, by the end of the week i had realized that although i was walking, i wasn’t quite sure who was walking with me. 
as i listened to patrisse cullors and opal Tometi, the co-founders of black lives matter, i couldn’t help but notice their repeated use of the pronouns “they” and “we”: “They try to limit what we think is possible,” “we have to challenge what they are doing,” “This is the myth that we are sold.” Throughout the talk, i kept thinking to my­self where i belonged within this dichotomy. was i a part of them? or was i a part of we? 
when i got back to my dorm room, i decided to visit the black lives matter website, looking for some direction. i wondered what solutions the movement offered to create more unity between races — to resolve the differences between we and them and replace the two divisive pronouns with a more inclusive one that everyone could belong to regardless of their race. 
To my dismay, the movement seemed to offer something quite different. instead of offering so­lutions for unity, the website stated that “ … we need less watered down unity and a more active solidarities with us, black people … ” and pushed aside “ … the worn out and sloppy practice of drawing lazy parallels of unity between peoples with vastly different experiences and histories.” 
later in the week, i came across a viewpoint published in The observer two days after the co-founders of black lives matter spoke at notre dame, titled “it’s time to walk the walk.” The viewpoint, which was addressed only to white people, stated that “once we accept our white privilege we can learn to see that we, collectively, are the oppressors.” at the same time, the author called on me and other white people to “use the platform of our skin to help incite change.” 
after attending the black lives matter talk and reading the follow-up observer opinion piece, i found that these particular elements of walk the walk week were successful in bringing more at­tention to the division that exists between races but had failed in bringing us all together to ad­dress and resolve this division as a united com­munity. i found myself searching for ways to become a part of the solution in working towards unity that transcends race, but instead i felt that i was only being labeled as part of the problem. 
That’s why the new addition to laFortune fea­turing the iconic picture of martin luther king, Jr., interlocking arms with our very own Fr. Ted stood out to me so much. To me, it starkly con­trasted with the us-versus-them mentality i had heard from ms. cullors and ms. Tometi and was a demonstration that issues of race in our na­tion could be addressed by all of us together. There was no we or them in the photo. There was no platform in the photo. There were only two men standing side by side, fighting for a world in which differences in race bring us closer together, not farther apart. 
as i finished reading the viewpoint in The observer, i began to find solace as the author encouraged more conversation, mentioning how nothing will ever change if no one enters this uncomfortable dialogue. i want to enter this dialogue. but in having this dialogue, let us not point to race so as to further divide ourselves but to come closer together so that all of us can figure out the best way to break down the current divide between races. 
i don’t want to be the oppressor; i want to help the oppressed. i don’t want to stand on a plat­form; i want to stand on the same ground as ev­eryone else. i completely agree that all lives must matter equally, i completely agree that in the past black lives have not mattered equally in practice, and i completely agree that this needs to change. however, i think the way in which we engage in this conversation is important. in having this dialogue, let us be wary of mistakenly widening the divide by letting the conversation become too fixated on pitting ourselves against each other and reducing ourselves to fit into one of two cat­egories: either us or them. i’ve had the amazing opportunity to meet people of many different races, and all of us are much more than a rigid dichotomy. 
i truly hope that this dialogue on race can re­flect the inspiring picture of martin luther king, Jr., and Fr. Ted that now resides in laFortune — a dialogue not centered on an us-versus-them men­tality that divides all of us further, but one that brings us closer together. 
so who is walking the walk? are they walking the walk? are we walking the walk? let’s all begin to walk together, so that all of us can head to­wards that more perfect place where no division exists between races and all lives truly matter equally. let’s walk the walk — together. 
Michael Finan is a sophomore double-majoring in economics and political science. He can be reached at mfinan@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

LUCY DU | The Observer 

The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ERIN McAULIFFE 
scene editor 

“no film maker has ever successfully brought the audience inside the mind or central nervous system of a character 
— something that even bad novelists are able to accomplish as a matter of routine,” Tom wolfe stated in his 1973 anthology “The new Journalism.” 
This quote mulled in my mind as i watched the richly blanched color schemes of “carol” play out in fashion and setting on a screen at cincinnati’s esquire theatre — an establishment pleasantly cloaked in nostalgia. 
The early 1950s setting onscreen (filmed, fittingly, in cincinnati) and my tangibly passé surroundings brought me back to the basement of henry pordes used books in london, where i first picked up wolfe’s work. i devoured his words in a state of heightened romanticism, fa­cilitated by the enticingly musty smell of yellowed pages and ripe ink that wafted around me in the bookstore’s cellar. 
“The makers of such movies usually run up the flags of defeat by finally having someone, via voice-over or on screen, re­cite great chunks of the novel itself, as if in the hope that this will recapture the pow­er of the goddamned book,” wolfe contin­ued. “The power, unfortunately for them, is completely wrapped up in the unique physiological relationship between writ­ten language and memory.” 
however, as i sat in my antiquated red velvet seat, my mind was both surround­ed by words back in the in the bookstore 
By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene writer 

somewhere around halfway through listening to Future’s surprise mixtape, “purple reign,” i realized i had made a big mistake. not only in offering to review it, but in deciding to listen to it at all. 
before i go any further, if you are an un­apologetic trap fan, chances are you will enjoy this album. For better or for worse, it does little to break away from the typi­cal trap formula: driving base and cyclic verses. Future fans in particular will prob­ably find this mixtape to be an acceptable, if fairly unexciting, outing for the artist. 
me, i can only take so much slurred autoTune-rapping over a throbbing base­line before i want to throw my headphones at the wall. 
“purple reign” starts painlessly enough, with a recording of “escomoe The coolesT dJ in The world!” it takes all of 45 seconds for dJ esco, a member of Future’s Freebandz record label and one memory and enticingly entwined and in­vested in an onscreen relationship facili­tated by everything but words. 
“carol” is a movie rooted in movement: a faint shoulder brush is mused over in the recipient’s mind, perhaps interpreted as closer to a caress; a car is driven off in ambivalence while one watches in static longing; a road trip progresses the plot to­ward climax. “carol” is a movie you watch over a movie you hear. 
This is where a foggy glass, quickly gathering condensation through hot breaths, blurs wolfe’s statement on point of view in films. 
“carol” is not a film entrenched in dia­logue — and rightly so. set in 1952, the story revolves not only around the love affairs of a woman whose divorce papers have yet to be drawn, they revolve around the love affairs of this woman with anoth­er woman. 
To center the still-married mom as the plot’s focus seems fitting; however, “carol” is posed through the point of view of Therese belivet (rooney mara), the timid counterpart to the self-assured carol (cate blanchett) who channels margot Tenenbaum as a striking vision in fur with blonde-hair and a nervous smok­ing habit. carol’s status is evoked through her stature, restaurant orders and gift giv­ing — she’s regal, stately, elegant. 
Their love affair proceeds in a manner akin to the train set Therese sells carol in their first interaction: a closed circuit loop that incurs stops and additional bag­gage throughout the journey. carol and Therese are train cars — men and 1950s 
of the tape’s executive producers, to intro­duce himself. he will continue to remind you who he is, and that he is the “coolest dJ on the m---------- planet,” at random in­tervals for the rest of the album. esco is al­most exclusively responsible for dropping this album from “not my thing” status to “oh my god, i am heartily sorry for having offended Thee.” 
Following that initial esco interjection, Future takes the mic to croon the pedestri­an “all right.” it’s a weak money-and-drugs ode that stands as the mediocre opening number to a thoroughly horrendous mix-tape. if i were inclined to recommend one track to sample (which i am not), i would suggest checking out the mixtape’s penul­timate number, “perkys calling,” a sober­ing song about addiction and drug money. 
if you were hoping that the remaining songs would provide the deep psychologi­cal insight you have come to expect from trap music, the genre that brought you the philosopher chief keef, you would be disappointed. 

society (that is the patriarchy) the tracks 
— ultimately their destinations are as certain as the next stop. To deviate is to derail. 
Their relationship initially exists in strain as eyelids flitter and fingers ner­vously trace martini glasses. The dialogue remains scattered at best, warranting some discrepancies when Therese de­clares to her boyfriend that carol is the only person she can truly talk to — ironi­cally, due to the time’s suppressing social norms, carol is the only person she truly cannot be seen talking to. 
however strained the conversations come off, the point of view warrants intent in viewing. as the american dream has long prompted society to buttress the un­derdog, the viewer is vested in Therese’s outcome: carol will get what she wants — the story lies in if that “what” is Therese. haynes utilizes the flux aspect of the plot to modulate and elicit satisfaction and torment in the audience as they watch the progression of the romance. 
“carol” is the first film haynes has directed that he did not write himself. The screenplay is based on patricia highsmith’s novel “The price of salt,” which she published under the pseud­onym claire morgan in 1952. (notably, she published “strangers on a Train” in 1950, and hitchcock directed the film ad­aptation in 1951.) 
as noted, “carol” is a quiet movie, and quiet can prove disquieting. in contrast, the climax of the film comes in sound: the screen black as the pair finally succumbs to their desires. 
The album never gets much deeper the­matically than its drug slinging exterior. There are occasional glimpses of what this album could have been. some songs and verses hint at a more introspective artist, the same artist that shone through in last year’s critically acclaimed album “ds2.” unfortunately, those sentiments are never fleshed out into any sort of meaningful message or social commentary. For exam­ple, “never Forget,” the fourth track of this most recent outing, includes several allu­sions to Future’s troubled childhood (“by the time i was seven, my uncle wayne was in prison”) and personal tragedy (“i had to take a loss so i could cherish this s---”), but none of these stories end up revealing what is going on in the rapper’s mind. 
To his credit, nayvadius wilburn (a.k.a. Future) had a prolific 2015. he released three mixtapes: “beast mode” in January, “56 nights” in march, and “what a Time to be alive,” his collaboration with drake, in september. somehow, he also found time to release his third studio album, “ds2,” in 
The film allows the viewer to inter­pret what carol and Therese are feeling through their expressions and actions, however, carol painfully calls out the disconnect a mind undefined can cause when she demands Therese to tell her what she’s thinking as they drive along in crippling silence. 
Therese fumbles with words and notes the selfish aspect in her spontaneously affirmative decisions. The conversation drew similarities between criminal and amorous minds: both are constantly and obsessively preoccupied, both are irra­tional, and both are dangerous and oc­casionally armed — or at least disarming. 
i would be remiss if not to elaborate on the supreme visual appeal of the film, shot on super 16 mm. film stock. ed lockeman, the film’s director of photography, won the prestigious golden Frog for his work. 
perhaps it was the influence of the camera consistently in Therese’s hands throughout the film that had me feeling as if i was strolling through a photography gallery at a predetermined pace. The work in the film was influenced by saul leiter, a new york-based photographer in the 1940s and 50s who shot in color and usu­ally through glass to stress “the specificity of space and time.” 
remarkably, “carol” proves wolfe’s theory on point of view in films moot: The film’s ability to tackle the amorous mind through visuals not expressed in state­ments elevates it beyond words. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at                             emcaulif@nd.edu 
July. what makes that incredible produc­tivity even more impressive is the fact that almost all of those projects were received with varying degrees of critical acclaim. (his song “F--- up some commas” earned one of the most prestigious awards in mu­sic: inclusion in scene’s best songs of 2015 list.) 
given that he drew so much praise for both the quantity and quality of his music last year, Future can probably be forgiven for releasing one dud. 
Then again, perhaps mr. wilburn is sav­ing his best work for later in the year. a few days after releasing “purple reign” Future tweeted, “ain done yet *umbrella with rain drops* pre warm up … get ready.” 
whether that tweet makes you giddy with excitement, or nauseous, largely de­pends on how you feel about trap music. For my part, i’m going to be more careful about the albums i agree to review. 
Contact Matthew Macke at                   mmacke@nd.edu 
LUCY DU | The Observer 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



FLING BY SPRING | riley mcCURRIE HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 

Happy Birthday: consistency and forward motion will help you achieve whatever you set out to do. size up whatever situation you face and be quick to take action rather than waste time arguing. actions will speak louder than words, and what you do now will set the stage for years to come. stay focused on your goals and don’t stop until you reach your destination. your numbers are 7, 12, 20, 26, 34, 39, 45. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t give up on the changes you want to make. a disciplined attitude will help you finish what you started, as well as ease your stress and take your mind off any negative situations you are facing. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): believe in your abilities. step up to the podium and voice your opinions. standing up for your beliefs and sharing practical solutions will put you in a good position. romance is on the rise, and celebrating your success is encouraged. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): good intentions will not cut it if you don’t follow through. don’t let anyone lead you astray with gossip or rumors that aren’t based on facts. emotional concerns about a partner or older person in your life will cause uncertainty. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): you’ll have plenty of opportunities to mix business with pleasure if you host an event or attend a networking function. your charming demeanor will attract attention as well as make those you love proud of your accomplishments. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): don’t waste time. keep the momentum going and head in a direction that promises to bring about positive change. don’t let jealousy turn into a costly loss. Think outside the box and you’ll find a workable solution. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): enjoy the youngsters in your life or plan a romantic adventure with someone you are deeply in love with. The attention you pay to others will result in an unexpected, unique response. plan a vacation around something you find entertaining. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t let anyone put you down or control your life. make decisions based on what works for you, and if change is required to find the peace you need in your life, take the initiative and make it happen. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make your home a place for interesting people to gather. surrounding yourself with eclectic decorations and talented people will allow you to hold court and become a leader. romance will help stabilize an important relationship. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): you’ll face plenty of interference if you are too vocal about what you are up to. make changes while no one is watching. it’s best to avoid people who confuse you or are known to be a poor influence. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): don’t wait to see what everyone else is doing. if you want something, go after it. don’t let a last-minute change of plans alter your course. Follow your heart and your dreams, and head in whatever direction makes you happy. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): helping others will exhaust you. Taking on more than you can handle will result in ill feelings between you and the person counting on you. make your position clear and don’t let yourself be overwhelmed by your problems. Quarreling will not resolve the problem. 



PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): get involved in something that concerns you, or offer support to someone you love. your gesture will raise your awareness of important issues. love is highlighted, and a romantic encounter will lead to a brighter future. make a commitment. 


Birthday Baby: you are practical, goal-oriented and proactive. you are intuitive and reliable. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  



SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Super Bowl teams show turnaround 
Michael Ivey 
sports writer 
on sunday, the broncos and panthers won their respective conference championships and punched their ticket to play each other in the super bowl in a couple of weeks. it will be a re­cord tying eighth all-time super bowl trip for the broncos and the second time in franchise history for the panthers. it also shows how much can change during a five-year period. 
The panthers and the broncos finished with the two worst records in the nFl at the end of the 2010 season, which means those two teams got the first two picks in the 2011 nFl draft. The panthers selected quarter­back cam newton with the first overall pick and the broncos selected linebacker von miller with the second overall pick. These picks were the first step of both franchises to walk back into relevance. 
after finishing with the worst record in the league, the panthers fired head coach John Fox (who was then hired by the broncos) and hired ron rivera to be their new head coach. rivera and newton led the new-look panthers to 6-10 and 7-9 final records in their first two seasons. after their first season with rivera and newton, the panthers selected linebacker luke kuechly with the ninth overall pick at the 2012 nFl draft. kuechly was named the nFl defensive rookie of the year after his rookie season. after the 2012 season, there were rumors the panthers would fire rivera due to the team losing so many close games, but the panthers decided to keep him. 
The panthers finished the 2013 season with a 12-4 record, the second best in the nFc conference, but lost their first playoff game against the san Francisco 49ers. rivera was named the nFl coach of the year, and kuechly was named the nFl defensive player of the year. despite a substantially worse 7-8-1 record the follow­ing year, the panthers made the playoffs and won their first game against the cardinals before losing to the seahawks in their second game. 
This season, the panthers dominated their way to a 15-1 record and wins against the seahawks and cardinals in the playoffs to advance to the super bowl. rivera is a coach of the year candidate again, and newton is a candidate for league mvp. 
The broncos took a differ­ent road back to relevance. with new coach John Fox and quarterbacked by Tim Tebow, the broncos finished the 2011 season with an 8-8 record and made the playoffs. it was the first of five consecutive playoff appearances for the broncos. The broncos won their first play­off game against the steelers in overtime before losing their next game to the patriots. after the season, the broncos signed legendary quarterback and free-agent peyton manning and traded Tebow to the Jets. The broncos finished 13-3 in their first season with manning before being upset in their first playoff game by the ravens. The next season, the broncos finished again finished the regular season with a 13-3 re­cord and advanced all the way to the super bowl, where they were promptly destroyed by the seahawks, 43-8. 
The broncos finished the 2014 season with a 12-4 record before being upset in the first game of the playoffs again, this time by manning’s former team, the colts. The day after that game, the broncos and John Fox mutu­ally agreed to part ways. a week later, former broncos player gary kubiak was hired to be the new coach. This season, kubiak led the broncos to a 12-4 record and wins over the steelers and the patriots to advance to the super bowl against the broncos. miller was the star of the broncos’ win over the patriots, recording five tackles, two-and­a-half sacks and an interception. he leads the broncos into the super bowl with the best de­fense in the nFl. 
if you’re a fan of a not so good nFl team like i am — damn you, chicago bears, for trading greg olsen to the panthers for a third-round pick — just look at these two teams as examples of what’s possible in a few short years. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey1@hcc-nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | maryland 89, penn sTaTe 53 
walker-kimbrough, maryland rout penn state 
Associated Press 

sTaTe college, pa. — shatori walker-kimbrough scored 25 points to help no. 5 maryland rout penn state 89-53 on wednesday night. 
brionna Jones scored 17 points and added 12 re­bounds for the Terrapins who won their sixth straight game. 
unbeaten on the road so far this season, maryland (18-2, 7-1 big Ten) looked right at home inside penn state’s bryce Jordan center. The Terrapins made 8 of 13 field goals to open a 21­12 first-quarter lead. most of those makes rolled off the fingertips of walker­kimbrough who found her shot immediately. she had 12 points in the first quarter and 17 in the first half. 
she made five of her first six shots for 12 first-quarter points and finished the first half with 17. maryland led 39-24 at halftime but not before a penn state surge that saw the nittany lions tie the game early in the second quarter. Four penn state players combined to lead a 9-0 run to pull to a 21­21 tie four minutes in. but the Terrapins took the lead for good on a pair of brianna Fraser free throws mo­ments later. Fraser’s makes sparked maryland after a sluggish second-quarter start and the Terrapins took control with an 18-3 run. maryland never trailed. 
lindsey spann led penn state with 14 points while Teniya page added 10 for the nittany lions who couldn’t pull out of their cold-shoot­ing slump as the third quar­ter began. 
meanwhile, Jones domi­nated down low with penn state forward whitted in foul trouble. Jones scored in the paint on back-to­back possessions prompting penn state coach coquese washington to send whitted back out. Jones added another basket to push maryland’s lead to 48-26. 
The Terrapins extended that to as many as 39 points with 3:42 to play when Tierney pfirman hit a jumper. walker-kimbrough played just 11 minutes in the second half and finished one point shy of her career-high 26 points. 
TIP-INS 
maryland: while penn state owns a 14-11 edge in the series, it has been one-sided in maryland’s favor lately. The Terrapins won their third straight game against the nittany lions and are unbeaten against them since joining the big Ten. 
penn state: The 39-point deficit was the nittany lions’ biggest margin of de­feat so far this season. Their previous was a 22-point loss to no. 20 south Florida on dec. 6. 
UP NEXT 
no. 5 maryland hosts indiana on saturday. 
penn state hosts purdue on saturday. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | buTler 67, depaul 53 
Butler ousts DePaul for second time this month 
Associated Press 

indianapolis — roosevelt Jones scored 23 points and butler defeated depaul 67-53 on wednesday night. 
Jones was 7 of 11 from the field and 9 of 11 from the free-throw line for the bulldogs (14-6, 3-5 big east), who made 25 of 29 free throws to 6 of 13 for the blue demons (7-13, 1-7). kellen dunham made three 3-point attempts and scored 16 points while andrew chrabascz added 10. 
Tommy hamilton had four 3-pointers and 13 points for depaul. eli cain also scored 13 points with myke henry adding 12. 
henry had a 3-pointer and jumper to cut butler’s lead to 56-47 with 5:35 left but 

FOR RENT 

Home for Rent, avail. 2016-2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@gmail. com 
Jones scored butler’s next five points for a 12-point advantage, 61-49, and the bulldogs kept their lead in double figures as depaul missed its next six field-goal attempts. 
butler beat depaul 77­72 on Jan. 6 on the blue demons’ floor. 
Indiana State 68, Missouri State 59 
Terre hauTe, ind. (ap) 
— khristian smith had 20 points, eight rebounds and four assists as indiana state beat missouri state 68-59 on wednesday night. 
smith scored seven straight indiana state points late in the second half, capped by a 3-point play, for a 61-52 lead. 
Jarred dixon made three free throws with 1:03 left to cut missouri state’s deficit to 63-57, but devonte brown answered with two free throws for an eight-point lead. 
brown added 15 points on 9-of-10 shooting at the line for indiana state (12-9, 6-3 missouri valley conference). brenton scott had 10 points and brandon murphy grabbed 10 re­bounds — seven on the of­fensive end. 
both teams struggled from the floor, shooting below 38 percent. indiana state made just 9 of 33 attempts (27 per­cent) in the first half but hit 47 percent in the second. 
dixon led missouri state (8-13, 4-5) with 19 points and dequon miller added 12. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or 
PERSONAL 
email ajhughes71@gmail.com 

Want a pro to help edit/polish I swear it’s like I can’t even leave my your dissertation or other research house. I should’ve known all along, paper? Utilize an experienced editor you gotta move or move on when you with Word’s Eye View, serving all of break up in a small town. 
FENCING 

Irish to return to action after two weeks off 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports writer 
notre dame is set to return to the strip this weekend for the northwestern duals, held on notre dame’s cam­pus, after two weeks without competition. 
The irish, who sit no. 1 in the women’s rankings and no. 2 in the men’s, were scheduled to fence twice in new york last week, but the st. John’s duals and nyu invitational were both can-celled due to winter storm Jonas. irish head coach gia kvaratskhelia said it was hard for his team to miss this premier competition. 
“obviously, the team was disappointed to not fence,” kvaratskhelia said. “we felt we were ready to face great opponents. some of the teams we were to face have arranged to be here this weekend, plus we have some other tough opponents. not traveling allows us to have a full week of practice, so we should be ready.” 
although the duals are not technically at home for the irish, northwestern will be hosting the invita­tional at castellan Family Fencing center while their henry crown sports pavilion undergoes renovations. seventeen teams will travel to notre dame, including four top-10 teams from each the men’s and women’s side: women’s no. 3 and men’s no. 8 princeton, women’s no. 6 and men’s no. 7 ohio state, men’s no. 3 and wom­en’s no. 9 penn, women’s no. 10 Temple and men’s no. 10 stanford will all be in attendance. 
as reigning acc champi­ons, kvaratskhelia said the men’s and women’s teams are preparing for every bout with a championship mentality. 
“Fans should expect a tough team that will fight for every touch and every bout,” kvaratskhelia said. “The whole season is a build-up. every match is important; we want to win them all. but it all builds toward the accs, the ncaa regional and the ncaa championships.” 

The men’s squad, sitting behind only columbia in the polls, is led by a pair of sabres, sophomore Jonah shainberg and senior John hallsten, while the top-ranked women’s team sits behind nobody, featuring freshman foilist sabrina massialas and senior epee catherine lee. kvaratskhelia highlighted lee’s leader­ship at the decicco duals two weeks ago, and said the team will need to rely on its past leaders to remain de­termined through the end of this season. 
“we’re facing some very tough competition,” kvaratskhelia said. “but our opponents are looking at us and saying the same thing. all i’m concerned about is for us to have fun and to not let fear get in the way.” 
The irish team takes the strip for the two-day meet saturday morning at castellan Family Fencing center. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 
NBA | pisTons 108, 76ers 97 

Detroit comes from behind for win over Philadelphia 
Associated Press 
auburn hills, mich.  — andre drummond had 25 points and 18 rebounds, and the detroit pistons rallied to beat the philadelphia 76ers 108-97 on wednesday night. 
drummond, who came into the game having gone 1 for 14 from the line in the last two games, even hit seven of his 12 free throws. reggie Jackson added 27 points, while rookie stanley Johnson had 18 off the bench. 
Jeremi grant scored 21 points for the sixers, while nerlens noel had 20. 
The 76ers played without starters Jahlil okafor and Jakarr sampson, who both missed their second game in two nights with the flu. 
without them, the sixers didn’t have the legs to keep up with detroit down the stretch. a victory would have given philadelphia its first two-game winning streak of the season. 
philadelphia led 79-74 going into the fourth, but Johnson’s floater tied it at 86 with 7:31 to play. Johnson scored again on detroit’s next possession, and Jackson’s 3-pointer put the pistons up 91-90. 
detroit was within 45-44 at the half, but couldn’t stop noel early in the third. a very rare three-point play by drummond, the worst free-throw shooter in league his­tory, helped detroit stay in the game, but isaiah canaan topped him with a four-point play late in the period. 

noel and grant outscored the pistons 14-12 in the first quarter as philadelphia built an eight-point lead. even with the sixers on the second half of a back-to-back, it was detroit that came out without any energy — something stan van gundy has complained about all year. 
The sixers still led 36-26 with five minutes left in the second, but detroit’s of­fense finally showed up while philadelphia stopped hitting shots. after a huge mistake when drummond was called for goaltending on a 3-point­er, detroit narrowed the gap when Jackson pulled up, pump-faked and banked in a buzzer-beating 3. 
both teams failed to break 40 percent from the floor in the half, but the pistons were able to stay close despite nine turnovers by outscoring the sixers 11-6 from the free throw line. 
Celtics 111, Nuggets 103 
bosTon — avery bradley matched his season-high with 27 points, and the boston celtics earned their fourth straight victory with a 111-103 win over the denver nuggets on wednesday night. 
kelly olynyk added 17 points and seven rebounds. isaiah Thomas finished with 16 points and five assists. 
The victory ties a season-high win streak for the celtics. 
boston took a 15-point lead into the fourth quarter on a last-second 3-point play by olynyk to end the third. 
The celtics kept attacking, scoring the first seven points of the quarter and growing their cushion to 22 points. 
danilo gallinari and will barton led denver with 23 apiece. 
The nuggets lost for the fourth time in five games. 
They got within 10 points on a dunk by kenneth Faried with about five minutes remaining. but the celtics went on a run again to help secure the win. 
boston led by as many as 13 in the first half, thanks largely to the outside touch of bradley. he was 8 of 13 from the field and finished the half with 5 3-pointers. 
it picked up the slack for the rest of his teammates, who shot just 11 for 35 combined. 
The nuggets didn’t help their cause with 15 turnovers. Their giveaways led to 15 boston points. 


NHL | lighTning 1, maples leaFs 0 
lightning shut out maple leafs 
Associated Press 
Tampa, Fla. — andrei vasilevskiy made 30 saves, steven stamkos scored his 21st goal and the Tampa bay lightning beat the Toronto maple leafs 1-0 on wednesday night. 
Tampa bay entered the all-star break by winning eight of its last nine games. 
Jonathan bernier stopped 28 shots for the maple leafs, who have lost nine of 10 (1­7-2). Toronto has been out­scored 31-11 during that stretch. 
stamkos put the lightning up 1-0 at 4:38 of the first with a shot from the left cir­cle during a power play. The Tampa bay captain can be­come a free agent July 1 and there has been ongoing spec­ulation about the possibil­ity of the Toronto area native joining the maple leafs next season. 
bernier kept the maple leafs close with several nice saves, including one on alex killorn’s power-play break­away, as Toronto was outshot 13-0 during the game’s first 12 1/2 minutes, and 17-6 in the first period 
Toronto had the final five shots of the first, and byron Froese hit the crossbar in the final minute. 
vasilevskiy turned aside a breakaway shot by michael grabner early in the second. Toronto had seven of the first nine shots during the opening eight minutes of the second. 
after morgan rielly had a shot go off the crossbar 2 minutes into the third, dion phaneuf’s in-close power-play shot four minutes later was stopped by vasilevskiy. 
it was vasilevskiy’s first shutout this season and sec­ond overall. he got the start in place of ben bishop, who will take part in this week­end’s all-star game. 




NBA | Thunder 126, Timberwolves 123 
Thunder squeak by Timberwolves in thriller 
Associated Press 
minneapolis — kevin durant had 27 points, nine rebounds and five assists, and hit two huge shots in the final two minutes to help the oklahoma city Thunder win a second-straight, fast-paced thriller with a 126-123 victory over the minnesota Timberwolves on wednesday night. 
russell westbrook had 24 points, 15 assists and eight rebounds, while enes kanter had 23 points and 10 boards for the Thunder, who beat the knicks in overtime the night before. oklahoma city out-rebounded minnesota 47-31 to go home from a four-game road trip at 3-1. 
Zach lavine scored 35 points on 14-for-17 shooting, andrew wiggins added 20 points and karl-anthony Towns had 19 points, 13 boards and five as­sists for the Timberwolves. minnesota shot 55.6 percent and had 31 assists, but missed 10 free throws. 
The Thunder were clinging to a 113-111 lead when durant hit a 25-foot 3 from the wing. he then made a jumper in the lane to pad it back to 118­113, the second straight night his late-game heroics helped oklahoma city escape. in new york, durant hit the game-ty­ing shot with 16.2 seconds to go, then scored seven in oT to finish with 44 points. 

The Thunder didn’t arrive in minneapolis until 3 a.m. after spending four days in snowy new york and needing extra time to beat the knicks. durant and westbrook car­ried the load against the knicks, combining to play more than 87 minutes and score 74 points to help the Thunder bounce back from a disappointing loss to the nets. 
They were facing the Timberwolves for the third time this month, but minnesota has been play­ing with a different energy and pace over the last week to break out of a 1-13 funk. The young wolves came out running again, surging out to an eight-point lead on the strength of terrific ball move­ment and shot-making from lavine, Towns, wiggins and gorgui dieng. 
it was back-and-forth the rest of the way, with one breathtaking sequence in the third quarter in which wiggins dunked on durant in transition and westbrook 
paid adverTisemenT 
came right back with a 3 from the wing. 
lavine’s fourth 3-pointer of the night gave minnesota a 99-93 lead early in the fourth, but kanter scored six straight in a 10-0 run to put durant in position to close it out. 
The wolves entered the night with the second-best free throw percentage in the nba, but shot just 64 percent from the line. 
TIP-INS 
Thunder: pg cameron payne left the game early in the second quarter with con-cussion-like symptoms and did not return. he was lim­ited to five minutes. ... durant topped 20 points for the 33rd straight game, the longest ac­tive streak in the league. 
Timberwolves: Towns, wiggins and lavine were named to the rising stars game during all-star week­end. The Toronto native wiggins will play on the world team while Towns and lavine will play for the u.s. team. Towns has competed inter­nationally for the dominican republic because his mom is dominican. but the nba put him on the u.s. team because he was born in new Jersey. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | arkansas 74, TeXas a&m 71 
razorbacks upset no. 5 aggies 
Associated Press 
FayeTTeville, ark. — moses kingsley had 18 points and 11 rebounds, dusty hannahs and anthlon bell scored 17 apiece and arkansas ended no. 5 Texas a&m’s 10-game winning streak with a 74-71 victory wednesday night. 
The loss was the first for the aggies (17-3, 7-1 southeastern conference) since a defeat at arizona state on dec. 5, end­ing the school’s longest winning streak since a 13-game stretch during the 2010-11 season. 
bell and hannahs each hit a trio of 3-pointers for the razorbacks (10-10, 4-4), who ended a three-game losing streak and won their eighth straight against Texas a&m in bud walton arena. 
danuel house scored 24 points and shot 4 of 5 from 3-point range to lead Texas a&m, which was 19 of 48 (39.6 percent) from the field. 
Texas a&m was attempting to win its eighth consecutive con­ference game, its most since the school won seven in a row as a member of the former southwest conference during the 1979-80 season. 
however, the aggies trailed throughout the first half and by as many as 10 points while strug­gling to keep possession of the ball against an arkansas team they defeated 92-69 in college station on Jan. 2. 
Texas a&m committed 13 first-half turnovers and trailed 40-33 at halftime, but took a one-point lead three times in the second half — the last coming when a pair of free throws by Tyler davis produced a 60-59 advantage. 
arkansas regained the lead for good on a floater by manuale watkins, and anton beard and hannahs hit free throws in the final minute to help secure the win. 
after hannahs made two foul shots with 6.4 seconds remain­ing to put the razorbacks up 74­71, Texas a&m’s dJ hogg missed a 3-point try at the buzzer. 
Tyler davis finished with 14 points and hit eight of nine free throws for the aggies. Jalen Jones and alex caruso had 10 points each. 


NBA | cavaliers 115, suns 93 

Cavaliers rout Suns at home 
Associated Press 
cleveland — lebron James scored 21 points be­fore sitting out and dancing in the fourth quarter, kevin love added 21 points and 11 rebounds, and the cleveland cavaliers stormed away in the second half for a 115-93 vic­tory over the phoenix suns on wednesday night. 
sluggish for the first 24 min­utes, the cavs opened the sec­ond half with a 12-0 run and sent phoenix to its 17th loss in 19 games. 
cleveland improved to 2-1 under new coach Tyronn lue, who took over last week when david blatt was fired halfway through his second season. The win means lue and the cavs’ coaching staff will rep­resent the eastern conference at the all-star game on Feb. 14 in Toronto. 
rookie devin booker paced the suns with 16 points and 
p.J. Tucker and markieff morris had 13 apiece. 
J.r. smith added 18 points as cleveland, which led by 28 in the fourth, handed phoenix its 12th straight loss on the road. 
lue wants the cavs to play much faster than they did under blatt, pushing the ball up the floor and running whenever possible to take ad­vantage of their athleticism. it’s a work in progress lue said his players need to be in better shape and cleveland strug­gled trying to find any rhythm for much of the first half. 
however, the cavs, who only led 55-50 at the break, came out flying in the third and quickly pushed their lead to 17. 
love buried a pair of 3-pointers during cleveland’s 12-0 spurt, which was high­lighted by smith taking a long outlet and bouncing a pass high off the backboard to a trailing James, who grabbed it with two hands and dunked to make it 62-50. 
moments later, James snagged an alley-oop pass from smith and the cavs eventually built their lead to 16 after three. 
The rout was on, allowing lue to rest James for the en­tire final quarter. during a late timeout, James laughed and danced near the huddle around lue as “super Freak” blared throughout Quicken loans arena. 
after a rough few days, the cavs had some fun again. 


The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
direction,” mcgraw said. “i think we’ve got some really good momentum going be­cause of what we’re doing defensively. we’re shoot­ing the ball well, and that always helps. i think lately we’ve been shooting the ball well, so i think early on, we weren’t scoring as much, so i think we’re really starting to get it all together now.” 
georgia Tech (12-8, 2-5) hasn’t had such an easy start to acc play, but irish head coach muffet mcgraw said her opponent may be better than its conference record, pointing to a daunt­ing early schedule that has seen the yellow Jackets al­ready face not only her notre dame team, but also no. 11 Florida state and no. 14 louisville. 
“They’re a great team,” mcgraw said. “They’ve been giving everybody a great game. They’ve played the top half of the league, so their record is not really in­dicative of how good they are, so it’s gonna be a big game for us down there.” 
The yellow Jackets will be led by senior guard/forward and preseason second-team all-acc selection aaliyah whiteside. whiteside leads the acc in scoring this sea­son with 21.8 points per game, as well as leading her team in rebounds, with 7.5 per game, and assists, with 
3.1 per game. whiteside scored 17 points and add­ed nine rebounds when she faced the irish earlier this season. mcgraw said whiteside’s versatility pres­ents a difficult matchup and can’t be easily contained. 
“i don’t know if you can stop her,” mcgraw said. “we tried a lot of different people on her, tried a couple differ­ent things, and she’s just a really good player. she’s re­ally hard to guard. she’s got good size at the guard spot. she’s strong. she can do a lot of different things, so she continues to be a tough matchup for us.” 
when notre dame met the yellow Jackets last, at purcell pavilion in december, the irish built a 22-point lead five minutes into the sec­ond half but needed a pair of late 3-pointers from gradu­ate student guard madison cable to ensure an 85-76 victory after an attempted georgia Tech comeback. mcgraw said her team has greatly improved defen­sively since then and she ex­pects to see a more decisive result this time around. 
“it was our first game in the acc and we had just come off oregon state, where we really weren’t playing well after christmas, really just not playing well defensive­ly,” mcgraw said. “i thought we had a lot of things we were working on and i think we’ve worked through them. we’re playing better defen­sively. [sophomore forward brianna Turner] obviously is back now and is playing a lot more minutes for us, and i think we learned a lot about ourselves, but it was mostly defensively some things we had to work on, and i think we have worked on them.” 
The irish and the yellow Jackets will meet at hank mccamish pavilion in atlanta on Thursday. Tipoff is at 7 p.m. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 


KATHRYNE ROBINSON | The Observer 

Irish sophomore forward Brianna Turner backs into a defender        during Notre Dame’s 74-39 win over Toledo on Nov. 18. 
said. “our last several con­tests against them have been extremely close, and we are expecting the same this time around, too. 
“[northwestern] has a darn good team, and our guys are fired up for the challenge.” 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at jbrebeck@nd.edu 
M Tennis 
conTinued From page 16 

the course of the season,” sachire said. “ … we’re in­tent on improving every day and staying true to the pro­cess of being successful. we know that if we can do this well, we will be in a position to take advantage of these 
opportunities.” 
The irish have one of those opportunities this Friday as they travel to evanston, illinois, to face the ranked wildcats, with the first serve scheduled for 7 p.m. 
“our match on Friday against northwestern will be a really, really competi­tive affair, and we are look­ing forward to it,” sachire 
paid adverTisemenT 





ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame looks to rebound at home 
By ALEX ELLYIN 
sports writer 
notre dame is back from stillwater, oklahoma, and pre­paring for its upcoming match-ups this sunday against illinois and bowling green at eck Tennis pavilion. 
after two stinging defeats at the hands of no. 10 oklahoma state and arizona state this past weekend at the iTa kickoff weekend moved the team to 1-2 on the season, the irish are looking to get back on track and over .500 saturday. 
“our goals are to win,” irish head coach Jay louderback said. “we need to come out quicker in the doubles and not be playing from behind. we need to look to be more aggres­sive when we have leads.” 
To begin their saturday dou­bleheader, the 33rd-ranked irish will first take on the Fighting illini (3-1), who are coming off a successful weekend in lubbock, Texas, at their edition of the iTa kickoff weekend. illinois start­ed its weekend at Texas Tech by upsetting virginia Tech before falling to the host no. 17 red raiders in the championship match. 

when the new iTa rank­ings came out this week, the Fighting illini were rewarded for their efforts, moving up five spots to 53. 
To get out to a quick lead like louderback wants, the irish will rely on their no. 1 doubles team, made up of all-acc tan­dem of senior Quinn gleason and junior monica robinson. The irish pair, who qualified in doubles for the ncaa cham­pionships last year, is no. 32 in the nation and is coming off its best win of the season rank-ings-wise last weekend against oklahoma state, where it up­ended the nation’s no. 9-ranked doubles pair, 6-1. 
while the duo had success last weekend, there wasn’t much else working for notre dame, which lost 4-0 to both the cowboys and sun devils, fail­ing to record a singles win. The no. 1 doubles team notched the only win of the weekend, with its flight against arizona state suspended while ahead 5-2. 
opposing gleason and robinson will be illinois junior louise kwong and freshman ines vias, who are also coming off an impressive win, as they took down the no. 25-ranked doubles team from Texas Tech, 6-1. 
Following their matches against the illini, the irish will compete against bowling green, which comes into the contest with a 1-2 record on the season, with a win over detroit and losses to ohio state and northern kentucky. The Falcons will stop by the dayton for a matchup with the Flyers on Friday before continuing to south bend for sunday’s match against the irish. 
both matchups will take place sunday at eck Tennis pavilion; notre dame and illinois will go at it first at 11 a.m., while the Falcons and irish are slated for a 5 p.m. start. 
Contact Alex Ellyin at             aellyin@nd.edu 


M Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
re-injury,” brey said. “That you’re 5-2 in the league you do have a bit of a cushion here. if you were 2-5 it would be a little different story, so you’re in a little different sit­uation. i just want to make sure it’s right. he’ll be back, and when he’s back there will still be time to add to a résumé.” 
without Jackson, brey said the irish will employ a start­ing lineup featuring junior guard steve vasturia shifting to the point, freshman guard rex pflueger — set to make his first career start — and sophomore forward bonzie colson, who has seen a re­cent resurgence after losing his starting role and coming off the bench. 
while the loss of Jackson will hurt, notre dame still has options from behind the arc. vasturia is averaging 
12.8 points per game and has connected on 38.6 percent of his 3-point field goals, while junior forward v.J. beachem has averaged 11 points while connecting on 42.3 percent of his triples. both are key cogs in an offense that leads the nation in adjusted offen­sive efficiency, according to ken pomeroy’s metrics. 
on the other end of the floor, however, the orange (13-8, 3-5) also present a tough matchup. 
syracuse employs two veteran graduate students at guard in Trevor cooney and michael gbinije. cooney av­erages 13.7 points per game, while gbinije leads the acc in steals per game in addi­tion to scoring 17.4 points and dishing out 4.1 assists per game. 
“you’re dealing with two 23-year-old, fifth-year se­niors,” brey said. “These guys are men up top — and they really make them go. so it’s a great challenge for rex and steve to start the game to defend those guys. 
“ … cooney has destroyed us before up there. we’ve got to be more alert chasing him around, especially early.” 
while defending cooney and gbinije and going against the 2-3 zone will be tough without Jackson, brey said he’s confident in his team’s abilities. 
“i think it’s daunting no matter what defense you’re playing when you lose a guy like [Jackson],” brey said. “but again i think this group has kind of had reps playing without him. and that they had to play the whole game pretty much on saturday [without him] … gives us a pretty good frame of mind heading up there.” 
The irish travel to syracuse, new york, without their top player Thursday to face the orange at the carrier dome. Tip is set for 7 p.m. 
Contact Brandon Plamondon at bplamond@nd.edu 



paid adverTisemenT The observer | THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Vasturia to take over the point at Syracuse 
By BRIAN PLAMONDON 
sports writer 
no. 25 notre dame has slid back into the national rank­ings just in time for their tilt at the carrier dome on Thursday when the irish vis­it syracuse. 
notre dame (14-5, 5-2 acc) is coming off four straight acc victories and is now ranked for the first time since november. 
“you know i’m really thinking … we may be the first program to petition to rescind the ranking,” irish head coach mike brey joked monday. “we don’t want it; we want to stay under the radar. next week is foot­ball signing week, and come catch up with us in two weeks. no, it’s great … we’re at a good frame of mind. and we have a couple of days to work against the 2-3 zone.” 
although the 2-3 zone, which has become syracuse head coach Jim boeheim’s trademark, will be different for the irish compared to the usual man-to-man, brey said it won’t change notre dame’s approach a whole lot. 
“same man-to-man prin­ciples when you’re attack­ing the zone,” brey said. “reversing the ball, certain­ly driving some gaps a little bit. getting a low post touch against the zone.” 
“it kind of forces teams to live or die by the [3-pointer],” senior forward Zach auguste said. “but i think we have great movement, great spac­ing, and we should be able to expose the 2-3 if we’re pass­ing and kicking it out.” 
while the irish have a plethora of shooters, they’ll be missing their star point guard in junior demetrius Jackson. The mishawaka na­tive pulled his hamstring saturday against boston college, and brey said his status beyond Thursday isn’t known yet. 
“we want to avoid a 
see m bball PAGE 15 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

McGraw’s confidence in Irish defense grows 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports writer 
no. 3 notre dame travels to atlanta to face georgia Tech on Thursday, a re­match of both teams’ 2015­2016 conference opener. 
The irish (19-1, 7-0 acc) are coming off an impres­sive three-game home stretch, in which they de­feated no. 19 Tennessee be­fore putting up dominant defensive performances against conference oppo­nents syracuse and virginia Tech, who were both held below 30 percent shooting from the field. impressive defensive showings have be­come a more regular event for notre dame in 2016 after some defensive inconsisten­cy early in the season. irish head coach muffet mcgraw said her team’s defensive improvement, combined with continued success in 3-point shooting, has given her team strong momentum. 
“i think we’re improving, so i would definitely say that we are headed in the right 
see w bball PAGE 14 

MEN’S TENNIS 

nd travels to northwestern 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
coming off a close 4-3 loss to no. 23 Tulsa last sunday, notre dame will look to re­bound against a team of a similar caliber Friday, when it visits no. 21 northwestern. 
The senior duo of Quentin monaghan and alex lawson won key matches to keep the irish (2-2) in tight com­petition with the golden hurricane last week; how­ever, the rest of their team­mates were unable to get the required results to get the win. monaghan and lawson were the only winners in the singles flights, as junior eddy covalschi’s three-set defeat at no. 2 sealed notre dame’s fate. 
with respect to his team’s recent defeat, irish head coach ryan sachire said failing to execute the simple parts of the game kept notre dame from getting a win against Tulsa. 
“we ultimately gave away too many cheap, easy points in some of the matches that we lost, and that’s what cost us the game,” sachire said. 
after tasting two defeats last weekend — the Tulsa one followed a 4-0 loss to no. 7 illinois — sachire said the irish have bene working on their offensive game this week in preparation for the wildcats (3-1). 
“our practices have been focused on emphasizing the concept of sustain­ing offense in how [they] play, but doing it in a way that is repeatable and low risk,” sachire said. “[we’ve been] doing a lot with serves and returns, ultimately trying to improve [their] fundamentals.” 
avoiding giving away easy points is going to be espe­cially important for notre dame, as its schedule is full of games against opponents of a similar caliber; the irish slot 35th in the latest iTa rankings. instead of seeing this as daunting, sachire said he sees this as a “beau­tiful” schedule that is full of challenges. 
“[There are] a tremendous amount of significant op­portunities throughout 
see m Tennis PAGE 14 





