The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 117 | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Mass celebrates life of law student 
Notre Dame law students, faculty and staff remember third-year Karabo Moleah 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
senior news writer 
notre dame law students, faculty and staff joined the family of mosupatsela Kar 
v. moleah to remember the life of the third-year law stu­dent with a memorial mass in the basilica of the sacred heart on Tuesday afternoon. university president fr. John Jenkins celebrated the mass, and fr. bill dailey, lecturer at notre dame law school and rector of stanford hall, de­livered the homily. The notre dame liturgical choir pro­vided the music for the mass. 
moleah died march 31 in philadelphia, according to an email sent to students friday afternoon from vice president of student affairs erin hoffmann harding. moleah had been studying in the law school’s washington program this semester but previously lived in the fischer o’hara grace student community, according to the email. 
in his homily, dailey said gathering for an occasion of sorrow in a basilica still dec­orated for easter may seem incongruous. 
“indeed, gathering in these days of eastertide, we may be in the best position to under­stand the hope god offers us, in sorrow,” he said. 
The life of christ “teaches us that our mourning mat­ters,” dailey said. 
“we gather to mourn Karabo as a people commis­sioned by st. peter to preach and to testify that Jesus is the one appointed by god, the one through whom god pro­claimed peace,” he said.  “... That this Jesus, the anointed 
see mass PAGE 5 

GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer 
Tuesday’s memorial Mass remembered Karabo Moleah, a third-year law student, who died in  Philadelphia on March 31. Moleah was participating in the Washington, D.C., program this semester. 


activist highlights protests 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Bree Newsome discusses the importance of civil disobedience Tuesday night. Newsome was arrested June 27 for removing the Confederate flag from the grounds of the South Carolina State House. 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 
news writer 
bree newsome, a community organizer, artist and activist, said she believes art plays an es­sential role in shaping culture and consciousness and can be used to symbolize a variety of social, political and historical beliefs. 

newsome was arrested for civil disobedience on June 27 af­ter she removed the confederate flag displayed on the grounds of the south carolina state house. 
newsome said she saw mul­tiple instances of social injus­tice during the summer of 2013, which inspired her to work for change. 
“The summer of 2013 was a pivotal time in the awakening of my socio-political conscious­ness,” newsome said. “The past seemed to be rising in the sum­mer of 2013, and not in good ways.” 

in 2013, the u.s. supreme court invalidated parts of the voting rights act, allowing 
see acTivisT PAGE 5 




Documentary reflects on 1916 Irish rebellion 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
briona nic dhiarmada said when she first started plan­ning her three-part documen­tary series about six years ago, she set the goal of commemo­rating the 1916 easter rising in a special way. 
The series, “1916: The irish rebellion,” was written and created by nic dhiarmada, a fellow of the Keough­naughton institute for irish studies and the Thomas J. & Kathleen o’donnell chair of irish language and literature, and will premiere on many pbs stations, including wniT-Tv this Thursday at 9 p.m. 
“i really felt that with the resources available at notre dame and the Keough­naughton institute, and giv­en the sort of distance both in time and in space, from ireland and from irish his­tory, that we would able to do something new and we would be able to look at that event not only simply as irish history or irish-british history, but as part of actually world history,” nic dhiarmada said. “i think it goes to prove that we’re very lucky to be at the university of notre dame.” 
christopher fox, executive producer of the documentary and director of the Keough­naughton institute, said the project served as an opportu­nity to extend notre dame’s academic reach and educate people worldwide about this event. 
“for over 20 years we’ve been bringing ireland to notre dame and notre dame to ireland,” he said. “i thought the one thing we really hadn’t done 
see 1916 PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 baseball PAGE 16 sofTball PAGE 16 





ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                 Kayla mullen cristina gutierrez 

Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 
Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu, zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What is your favorite kind of soda? 

Billy Adler 
sophomore 
fisher hall 
“ramune.” 

Madi Purrenhage 
sophomore pasquerilla west hall 
“dr. pepper.” 

Joe Wells 
sophomore morrissey manor 
“dr. pepper.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Mae Raab 
sophomore 
lyons hall 
“dr. pepper.” 

Nathan Kriha 
sophomore 
Knott hall 
“dr. pepper.” 


Tony Rogari 
sophomore 
Keenan hall 
“sprite.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
Katie galioto ben padanilam Email news@ndsmcobserver.com andrea vale victoria llorens Justine wang  r.J. stempak 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Graphics Scene 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
olivia mikkelsen Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Tax Assistance Easter 1916: The Irish Bengali New Year “Agency, Persons, National Robotics 

chris collins austin Taliaferro 
Program Rebellion Celebration and Kant” Week Event 
Geddes Hall Hesburgh Library Coleman-Morse Center McKenna Hall Compton Family Ice 
2:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 5:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m. - 8 p.m. 8 a.m. Arena 
Corrections 
Tax returns prepared Guided tour of Special Experience culture Philosophers discuss 12 p.m. - 4 p.m. 

The observer regards itself as without appointment. Collections exhibit. and traditional dinner. Kant’s works. Play with Robots. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Christ for the Curious “Ingrid Bergman: In Women’s Tennis vs. Eucharistic Adoration Men’s Lacrosse vs. 

of journalism at all times. we do, 
Coleman-Morse Her Own Words” Clemson Basilica of the Sacred Duke 

however, recognize that we will make 
Center DeBartolo Performing Eck Tennis Pavillion Heart Arlotta Stadium 

mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
7 p.m. - 8 p.m. Arts Center 3:30 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. 11 p.m. 12 p.m. - 2 p.m. 

please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Come discuss the 5:15 p.m. - 6:15 p.m. The Irish take on the 24-hour Eucharist The Irish take on the 
we can correct our error. 
Resurrection. Documentary film. Tigers. celebration. Blue Devils 


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | The observer 


panel continues income inequality discussion 
By AIDAN LEWIS 
news writer 
notre dame students contin­ued the campus-wide conver­sation about income inequality Tuesday night at a discussion host­ed by bridgend, featuring pan­elists mimi Teixeira, natasha reinfenberg, liam o’connor, raymond michuda and armani niko porter. (Editor’s note: Each of the panelists have previously submitted columns or letters to the editor about income inequality to The Observer’s Viewpoint section. BridgeND also runs a bi-weekly column in The Observer.) 
sophomore mimi Teixeira kicked off the panel saying capi­talism on its own is helpful in al­leviating poverty. 
“almost two billion people have been pulled out of poverty by cap­italism alone,” she said. “it is the best poverty program that the hu­man mind has ever created.” 
Teixeira said she disputes the idea that capitalism promotes the exploitation of the poor. 
“The idea that people make their wealth on the backs of the poor is just not true,” she said. 
The problem is poverty, not in­come inequality, Teixeira said. 
“it’s the obvious moral impera­tive to take care of the poor,” she said. “not only to take care of them, but to give them dignity and to help them out of poverty. i don’t think the solutions to in­come inequality do that.” 
sophomore natasha reifenberg said she disagrees with Teixeira’s argument. 
“i do not understand how you can address poverty without ad­dressing income inequality,” reifenberg said. 
statistics show socioeconomic status to be a strong predictor of academic and economic success, reifenberg said. for this reason, she said income inequality has 

put the poor at a significant disad-principles of our country,” she vantage in chasing the american said. “it violates the principles of dream. the pursuit of happiness, and it vi­“income inequality violates the olates the principles of equality.” 
paid adverTisemenT 


although she said she believes in capitalism, reifenberg said she thinks it is an imperfect system that must be repaired. 
“we acknowledge the positives of capitalism,” she said. “we’re not saying anything is better. what we are saying is that it is irrespon­sible to not address these flaws.” 
reifenberg said the idea that the richest work the hardest per­petuates inaccurate stereotypes about the poor. 
“it perpetrates the belief that poor people are lazy and stu­pid and deserve to be poor,” reifenberg said. “we make vil­lains out of the poor people.” 
sophomore armani niko porter said people must be care­ful not to write off income in­equality solely because they have not experienced it themselves. 
“There are those of us who have experienced income inequality and those of us who have not,” he said. “do not forget that personal background changes the way we see everything.” 
senior raymond michuda said he believes government policies and regulation are at fault for in­come inequality, not capitalism. 
“The government contributes so much to income inequality, and then they try to blame capi­talism,” michuda said. 
The conversation also shifted to the role income inequality plays in paying for a college edu­cation. michuda said he thinks college is not for everyone, so it is fine not everyone is able to attend college. 
“if everybody goes to college, in a sense no one did,” michuda said. 
reifenberg said she disagrees with this sentiment, arguing that more education can only benefit society as a whole. 
“education is not a resource that gets devalued as more people have access to it,” she said. 
because of this, reifenberg said she believes everyone who wants a college education should have the opportunity, no matter his or her socioeconomic class. 
“education is a right, not a priv­ilege,” she said. “college for all.” 
Contact Aidan Lewis at  alewis9@nd.edu 


The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

1916 
conTinued from page 1 
was kind of public education, and this is public education on a global scale. it allows us to bring ireland to the world, and also … i don’t think there has ever been a time when some­thing based in our research and teaching mission will be seen by so many people, millions of people worldwide.” 
nic dhiarmada and fox will complete a screening tour of the feature film format of the documentary that will take to them to 16 countries through­out 2016, nic dhiarmada said. 
“we’re bringing the film around the world to various universities and culture centers and irish embassies. The irish government, from a very early stage, took this project on board as one of their official centena­ry events for their official pro­gram,” she said. “even though it’s specifically irish, it’s also a global story. actually, the re­sponse has been unbelievable. it’s beyond our wildest expecta­tions, i suppose, that we get to show it in so many places.” 
fox also said the response to the film at these screenings has been overwhelmingly positive. 
“it’s been getting stand­ing ovations every place we’ve shown it,” he said. “The surpris­ing response we’ve gotten is ac­tually from some unionists and some british people who have seen it and said afterwards, ‘This is balanced, this is fair.’” 
fox said the creative team was largely able to maintain an impartial view on the subject by showing it through a histori­cal lens rather than a political one. 
“we decided not to use politi­cal pundits or commentators, we wanted historians involved, serious historians,” he said. “now they don’t all agree, but they can have a discussion here. The story that ended up telling itself was really a story about the breakup of empires. i think that’s one of the reasons the film has the broad appeal it has.” 
nic dhiarmada said she drew inspiration from Ken burns’s documentary series, “The civil war,” in order to sensitively handle an issue that remains contentious in ireland. 
“The american civil war is something that’s still very raw, still quite contentious, and what Ken burns did for that was to give it back to the people,” she said. “he contextualized it, but he gave the personal sto­ries and the impact that history has on ordinary people. … we didn’t exactly copy Ken burns or what he did, or really imitate him, but we tried to do some­thing similar and create for irish history what he had done for american history.” 
people who aren’t irish or of irish descent have still been able to relate to the story as a human story, nic dhiarmada said. 
“i think it’s a story of historical significance because it was like a ripple effect. its effects were felt way beyond ireland, but i think on a human level it’s a story of great courage, of ide­alism, and also then of loss, as well,” she said. “i think it’s cer­tainly resonant for people who respect equality, people who struggle and strive for equality, and justice, and freedom and things like that.” 
fox said the impact this story had on the largely-irish cre­ative team was evident in the care they took during the film-making process. 
“it was family history, this is their history. and it just wasn’t a job, it was a labor of love,” he said. “a whole bunch of really creative and smart people got together, and it was wonder-documentary.” history and you’re dealing possible, keeping in mind that ful for me to be orchestrat-nic dhiarmada said she re-with people’s lives,” she said. one has to be ethical when ing all that, but a lot of really mained very conscious of the “people make history, but his-you’re telling these stories and smart and creative people got personal nature of the story tory makes and breaks people, conscious of the effect it can together and we found our-she set out to tell throughout so we’re conscious of a great have on people.” selves in the middle of some-the entire process. responsibility, i suppose, and thing special, and they all felt “you’re dealing with people, really what we tried to do was Contact Courtney Becker at that this will be a landmark with people’s memories, with tell the story as honestly as cbecker3@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | The observer 




Activist 
conTinued from page 1 
states to change their election laws without advance notice or federal approval, newsome said. 
“my home state of north carolina wasted no time in cre­ating new election laws, clearly making it harder for blacks, poor people and students to vote,” she said. “i was in raleigh, north carolina in late July when a friend invited me out to a ‘moral greater than myself, to help car­ry forward the banner for free­dom and equality and justice.” newsome said. 
newsome said the continued flying of the confederate flag serves as a reminder of her fam­ily’s history with racism. 
“being a child of the south my­self and descended from a family that has been in the carolinas for hundreds of years, the meaning of the confederate flag was nev­er lost on me,” she said. “it was a banner that first represented slavery and then, after the south lost the war, it became emblem­atic of the Jim crow laws that would govern the south for the next 100 years.” 
newsome felt a call to action after the charleston shootings last June, she said. 
“as long as i will live, i will never forget the night of the charleston massacre,” she said. “it shook me to my core that here we were in 2015 and this level of racial hatred and terrorism was still happening in america. ... To be honest as a christian, i had a crisis of faith at that moment.” 
at this point in time, newsome said she was organizing activist events in her local community and had no intention of get­ting arrested again. however, when the idea to remove the confederate flag from the state house arose, newsome said she knew she would do whatever it took. 
“i was so deeply convicted on the issue and fact that i had seri­ously contemplated attempting 
Mass 
conTinued from page 1 
and appointed one, wept, for even the master of history — whose death and resurrection are the very hinges of human history — paused at times and weeped. 
“To believe in a lord who weeps is to believe that our weep­ing matters. because Karabo the climb myself — having no real climbing experience and [being] certain that i would be arrested before making it to the top.” she said. “i still felt strongly that the point must be made how abso­lutely intolerable it was for that flag to fly another day, especially as the u.s. and state flag had been set at half-mast.” 
newsome said every person can contribute to the fight for so­cial justice in some way. 
“everyone can help lead the way toward a just society,” she said. “everyone carries with them skills, talents, life experience and knowledge that is valuable to this world. 
“one doesn’t have to be an ac­tivist in the traditional sense of the word to be impactful. civil disobedience and public protest are essential to achieving democ­racy — they always have been and they always will be. but justice doesn’t come only in the streets. everyone must ask themselves, ‘what is at stake in these times?’” 
however, newsome said there is still work to be done in the fight for social justice. 
“i believe it is crucial that we recognize the systemic and global nature of injustice,” she said. “we have to move towards a human rights framework which recognizes the struggle for racial justice in america as being part of a universal struggle for educa­tion, housing, democracy and equal protection under the law.” 
Contact Sydney Enlow at  senlow01@saintmarys.edu 
monday’ protest, organized by the north carolina naacp, re­sponding to the attack on voting rights.” 
newsome said she soon learned in order for social justice to prevail, there would be poten­tial legal consequences. 
“i decided to attend the protest that summer in 2013, and there i encountered this vibrant group of young people my age who were putting themselves on the line in the name of justice and equality,” newsome said. “most of them 
paid adverTisemenT 
had already been arrested once, if not twice, for staging sit in at the capitol. i was immediately impressed by the courage in their convictions and in their commit­ment to a righteous cause — so i decided to join them in their next protest and volunteered to be arrested at a sit-in the following wednesday” 
The 2013 Trayvon martin case sparked a surge of activist move­ments, newsome said. 
“i was excited to be a part of it — to be part of a cause much matters. Karabo’s life as a child of god, as a child of his parents, as a brother, as a friend matters, deep­ly. not even because, in the words of his friends, he may have been ‘the most interesting man in the world’ … but because as human, he was made in the image and likeness of god, and that made him very good, indeed.” 


dailey said moleah has been remembered by his friends as “never satisfied by the superficial or simple.” 
“his questions probed, his pres­ence affirmed, even his joking popped. gifted with great wit and intelligence, he worked to make other people feel special. gifted with eloquence, he was one who listened intensely,” he said. “his travels, his interests, his engage­ment made those around him care more about life itself, which perhaps makes mourning his death so deeply painful.” 
dailey said the days leading up to easter in holy week serve as a reminder that the path to salvation is the way of the cross, but “we do not mourn, we do not weep alone.” 
“so here we gather, as a people who weep, in this glorious build­ing decked out for easter joy, dedi­cated to the god who has wept with us,” he said. “These days leading us to easter joy reminded us that Jesus himself did not claim that human joy comes lightly or simply.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at cowers@nd.edu 


paid adverTisemenT 


INSIDE COLUMN 

The future oldies 
Erin McAuliffe 
scene editor 

“i guess this was like an anti-war song — i just thought it was about sunshine!” the dJ for 103.7 “The Treasure coast’s oldies station” states as i roll my eyes and peel my thighs from the hot, sticky leather backseat of my grandparents’ minivan. we’re on our way to the local suburban olive garden but are currently lost on a grandma-mandated christmas light detour. 
“do you know the band The who?” my grandpa asks me with­out turning around from the passenger seat as the dJ spins “my generation.” 
feeling patronized by the question, i say yes — affirming the mu­sic tastes of my generation as he circles the parking lot waiting for a handicap spot to open up. 
musing over my grandpa’s innocently-conversational but pointed question, i think about my “autumnal hymns” playlist featuring songs by The smiths, The cure and depeche mode copied over from my dad’s iTunes library on our “home sharing” network. i sprinkled these songs amongst bon iver, The shins and Kanye west to curate a collection transcending decades and genres. i was in­spired by individuality and personal tastes, not tradition or musical continuity. The only sense of time that mattered was keeping the list under 90 minutes so i could burn it onto a cd to play in my car. 
people predict “the death of the album” as a consequence of mixtapes and playlists, but it is this sort of musical association and juxtaposition that keeps old tunes fresh in today’s musical land­scape. with overwhelming amounts of new music out for physical and digital consumption every friday, it’s harder to qualify and relish oldies without missing out on the next best thing. however, consuming nostalgic sounds via new technologies opens the niche to the masses. 
our generation is listening to more music than ever before due to portable listening options, but the devices that bring an accessibility to music are vices to band loyalty: we can flip from the entire bob dylan discography to the new rihanna album within a search bar 
— no tactile seeking required. Today’s music consumer can com­partmentalize and curate to his or her personal tastes on a song-by­song level. 
you might feel like scouring soundcloud for obscure edm one day, hunting through your local thrift store’s record bins the next and then pre-ordering the new beyoncé album on iTunes. so do. we are not limited in what we listen to, so why should we be limited in how we choose to listen to it? 
Today’s musical landscape mirrors the floridian sprawl sur­rounding my grandparent’s gated west palm beach community. we’ll drive for miles in their minivan as they go on about the up­coming developments: they know every present and future building within a one-hour circumference of their house. 
“we have these nice new condos going in here,” my grandma motions with approval to a dirt pit, crane and sun-washed pastel blueprint 45 minutes into our drive to pepper beach. 
attribute it to ennui, but their sense of ownership and knowledge beyond supposed boundaries parallels my attachment to today’s musical vastness. as my grandparents’ community expands, they’re open and proud of its improvements, even noting failed business attempts with a chuckle. They aren’t buying all the real estate, just appreciating and critiquing developments as connected but removed stakeholders. 
similarly, i attempt to scour and devour any music within hearing range. i strive to be an informed listener, critical of shortcomings and hopeful for sustained improvements. although my listening options expand every friday, i have niche areas that i attend to more. i will invest in these areas more, buying into the artists and la­bels with vinyl purchases on top of the singles dragged and dropped onto my monthly playlists. 
although i am removed from yesteryear’s bands, i take the time to learn the histories behind iconic buildings torn down to make way for new condominiums and the influences that past architecture and culture have on today’s street facing aesthetics: i appreciate the mingling of past and present aesthetics in an urban playlist of sorts. 
Contact Erin McAuliffe at emcaulif@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Women deserve better 
Laura Wolk 
guest columnist 
on monday, former state senator wendy davis gave a talk entitled “rise up: from single mother to harvard law.” while in public office, davis achieved notoriety after her 11-hour filibuster against comprehensive pro-life legislation in Texas. she supplemented her political advocacy with personal testimony about her own two abor­tions, including the fact that, guided by faith and prayer, she made the “right decision” to abort after learning of her daughter’s severe disability. describing abortion access as “sacred,” she stated that she supports no limits to its access. 
in sum, davis held, and made clear last night that she continues to hold, a public, unrepentant and unmitigated position utterly antithetical to the church’s teachings on the sanctity of life, the value of people with disabilities and the intrinsic dignity of all women. yet, on the very day that the church celebrates our lady’s freely-given choice to cooperate in the profound mystery of the incarnation, some university administrators found it fitting to present. davis as an inspiring example of female success. Though the event’s promotional material has curiously disappeared from the notre dame website, it touted davis as a “modern-day Texas heroine” who stood against “devastating legislation seeking to limit women’s access to abortion and reproductive healthcare.” 
i could use this space to lament the scandal engendered by the decision to host such a talk on a catholic campus. as we say in the law, however, sometimes “the thing speaks for itself.” instead, i want to speak to the passionate and eager women who attended last night’s talk, women genuinely seeking to understand how best to do good in the world. i want to tell you something that perhaps no one has yet had the courage to state bluntly and unapologetically: The message presented by wendy davis is an odious, pernicious lie, and you deserve better. 
for, underneath the seductive language about power and progress lies the central principle of davis’ message — namely, that our ability to conceive and bear children renders us inherently unequal to men. we can only achieve equality by resorting to technology (and, where necessary, violence) to mimic as best we can the mascu­line human experience. it says that our worth is measured by the level to which we conform to the male paradigm. left unchecked, our natural femininity waits like an omnipresent, shadowy specter, ever threatening, as davis phrased it last night, to “derail our dreams.” 
This approach radically misunderstands the source of our dignity and equality and remains ultimately unfulfilling to the women attempting to force themselves into the masculine mold. and i believe, ladies, that deep down you agree. i be­lieve you realize it in those instances when, de­spite your best efforts, your “no-strings-attached” relationship has once again made tears spring to your eyes. i believe you know it as you vent frustration that your contraception regimen has continued to mess with your weight, your mood, your appetite or your skin. i believe you feel it in those moments late at night after the texts have stopped and the music has ended when that still, soft voice begins to whisper once more, asking whether you will ever know what it means to have a peaceful mind and a contented heart. 
i am here to tell you that you will realize your freedom not by denying part of what makes you essentially a woman, but instead by embracing your womanhood, allowing it to blossom into its full potential. scripture teaches us that “god created mankind in his own image; … male and female he created them.” This “image” enables us to reason, reflect and enter into interpersonal relationships. since we are the only creatures that innately possess these faculties, this “image” also endows each person with intrinsic dignity and equality. as pope John paul ii stressed in his “letter to women,” this understanding does not ignore the very real social and economic inequalities faced by women. yet, the church’s view correctly recognizes that any viable solution to these problems must root itself in the central tenet that each woman is good simply by virtue of her existence. women do not require intervention alterations to their nature to achieve equality; they claimed that equality as their birthright at the very moment of their creation. 
The church provides myriad examples of wom­en living out these teachings, further undermin­ing davis’ claims that authentic freedom, equality and success remain unattainable without abor­tion and contraception access. what about helen alvaré, wife, mother, cornell law school graduate, author, professor and advocate for the weak and vulnerable? or mary ann glendon, former ambassador to the holy see, member of the u.s. commission on international religious freedom, wife, mother and harvard law school professor? or reggie littlejohn, wife, mother, yale law school graduate and tireless advocate against women’s rights abuses in china? These represent just a few of the many bold, powerful, high-achieving, feisty women who change the world while joyfully living in accordance with the church’s moral doctrines. 
so this is my challenge to you, women of notre dame: critically question the dominant cultural narrative that being born a woman means be­ing handicapped by a fertility problem that you must “rise up” against. listen to that still, soft voice the next time she speaks to your innermost heart and entertain, even for a moment, the radi­cal belief that, by virtue of your very creation, you are enough. ask god to reveal your fundamental uniqueness and irreplaceability to you. pray that he shows you what it means to be truly free and gives you the strength to pursue it with all your heart. you have nothing to lose and everything to gain. 
Laura Wolk is a third-year law student. She can be reached at lwolk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



an apology to my body 
Erin Thomassen 
The examined life 

my body was not made for hate or vanity. body, i have not been treating you right. 
arms, you have never been the favorite part of my body. you can barely do a push-up. you have flab where triceps should be. left arm, you have broken twice. when you were broken, though, i realized all you help me do. you flow from one ballet position to the next while i cycle through pliés. you pump at 90-degree angles as i power up a hill. you flail as i fall while water skiing. arms, you are two unappreciated limbs, and i promise not to hate on you unnecessarily. i may even grow to love you. i don’t want you to leave me, after all. 
legs, i cannot deny that you have long been my preferred appendages. The quadriceps, the calves and hamstrings — what’s not to love? even when i don’t take care of you as i should with daily runs and deep stretches, you remain ready to run, leap and split at a moment’s notice. Though you will be sore that night, you recover within the next day, ready to run to our next adventure. you even try to keep me warm by sprouting hairs. i appreciate this considerate measure, but feel free not to sprout these hairs. i will wear fleece-lined tights to insulate you better. 
feet, i want to apologize for torturing you for many years. in the name of beauty and ballet, i shoved you into pointe shoes and balanced all of my weight on the tips of my toes. no wonder ballerinas want to weigh less. you suffer many a blister and retain your calluses so that i can turn barefoot on wooden floors. when i received a pedicure for my birthday, i could feel you tingle with excitement to have your old cells exfoliated off. i am sorry that i could not allow you to be scrubbed, because it would remove the calluses i need. i promise: it would have hurt more to re­form those calluses the next day. 
hands (and fingers), thanks to you i can write and type. Thanks to you, i can crochet and cook. Thanks to you i can play patty-cake. you are truly irreplaceable … until i catch up to starfish and learn how to regrow you. 
eyes, i am glad you can rest during vacation with many hours spent closed. during the semes­ter, i am constantly demanding that you open, focus and transmit information from paper to my brain. That is not all you do. you hold eye contact with friends at lunch. you show me where the roots are in the path so that i do not trip — most of the time. you have not required glasses or con­tacts. i reward you with many carrots. 
nose, i am glad you exist. Through inhalation, i bask in the aroma of cinnamon spice steaming up from chai tea. Through sneezing, you gener­ously clear the gunk from your passageways — no janitor needed. even when you transmit an unpleasant smell, you inform me of important knowledge. This milk is sour; do not drink. This meat is rancid; do not eat. This air is putrid; do not breathe. This substance is a sweet potato. by all means, consume. 
but what will help me consume? The tongue, yes, the tongue! oh tongue, you allow me to sample the tart of arugula, the tang of black­berry and the sweet of watermelon. you explode with the power of pineapple and swim through mashed potato. you have even learned to swallow pills, and it only took you 18 years. i apologize for burning you when i sipped boiling tea. what killed only a few taste buds made you stronger, and you can now sustain water straight from the steaming kettle. you may never allow grapefruit to enter my body, but you will permit me to eat lemons whole. it may have something to do with the previously-murdered taste buds. 
ears, without you, i would miss every 8 a.m. class, for i would dutifully sleep through my alarm. you channel my contemplation of som­ber lenten melodies and celebration of joyous easter song. without you, i may never get off the couch; i would not be able to wake myself up with a “hamilton” cabinet battle. you may betray my embarrassment by flushing crimson, but i can overlook that for now. do not fear: i will never slash you like van gogh. 
Erin Thomassen likes listening to string instruments tuning. Please come tune violins and cellos near her window in Pasquerilla East Hall, preferably in the next two years, as she is a junior. She can be reached at ethomass@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Who’s to blame for income inequality? 
Prathm Juneja and Bailey Kendall 
bridging the gap 

unfortunately, this harsh essentialism has per­sisted for decades. it seems this perspective may have originated from a man idolized by many on campus, whose face graces dorm room walls and name is printed on all sorts of apparel: president ronald reagan. in his infamous “welfare queen” speech, reagan derided one particular woman 
— a con who had cheated the government out of thousands of dollars — to argue that welfare stole from the common (wo)man and gave to the undeserving poor. Today, this argument is com­monplace in the income inequality debate; over 25 percent of americans now believe that the poor are lazy, and governmental assistance enables them to continue their sedentary lifestyles. 
To debunk this idea, we need to understand that welfare does not keep people from looking for employment; rather, it encourages recipients to actively seek it. one major relief program, Temporary assistance for needy families (Tanf) is designed to do just that, as it temporarily helps struggling families back on their feet. if govern­ment programs are specifically designed to help people raise their incomes, and thus close an income gap, how can the poor cause income in­equality? The answer is simple: it can’t. people who benefit from welfare programs don’t enjoy having to use them; it’s not easy to be a low-income earner. in fact, people living below the poverty line are seven times more likely to ex­perience significant psychological distress than those making $47,080 each year as an individual or $97,000 per year as a family of four. if this is the case, we can all conclude that people don’t enjoy poverty or hope to continue living paycheck to paycheck; rather, they hope to overcome it and fight the income gap. we need to eradicate the myth that those who are adversely affected by income inequality are also its cause. by allow­ing it to continue, we are perpetuating a form of classism that correlates low income with low motivation. 
while it may be easy to blame those who have little for widespread inequity, statistics disagree; in fact, 80 percent of people benefitting from the supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap), our primary source of welfare, work either prior to, or the year after receiving snap. most are not taking advantage of the government; instead, they are using the system to help them bounce back in a time of need. furthermore, a quick look at the average monthly welfare benefit may sur­prise you. each month, households requiring gov­ernmental assistance receive an average of $404 worth of assistance, which takes several forms, including food stamps, social security and Tanf. everyone can agree that $4,848 a year is not nearly enough money to care for dependents, let alone lead the luxurious lifestyle of a “welfare queen.” 
simply put, income inequality is not due to lazi­ness, incompetence or failure of america’s poor­est to contribute to society. income inequality is about those who possess power and how continu­ing to marginalize people who are poor benefits a small group of our society. when attempting to distribute the blame for income inequality, don’t look to those who wish it didn’t exist the most. poverty isn’t a culture of laziness or a character flaw in a group of american society; welfare isn’t a free ride or an easy way out. people who are poor and benefit from welfare are far from our biggest roadblock when ensuring equal income opportu­nity for all. 
so, the next time you think about the causes of income inequality, try to put yourself in the shoes of those bearing the weight of its negative conse­quences. imagine working 40-plus hours a week, taking care of dependents and struggling just to stay afloat, let alone create your own upward mobility. now on top of that, imagine being de­rided by others who claim that you’re fraudulently abusing their tax dollars because you are lazy, despite the fact that you are fighting a system of institutionalized poverty and working harder than most people ever will in this country. reflect on this situation, and then ask yourself: who’s truly to blame for income inequality? is it the fault of the poor? or is it the fault of those who seek to eliminate welfare, either in a deliberate attempt to widen the income gap or out of ignorance for the struggles of others? 
Prathm Juneja is a freshman in O’Neill Hall majoring in political science and computer science. He can be reached at pjuneja@nd.edu. Bailey Kendall is a freshman in Cavanaugh majoring in American studies. She can be reached at bkendal1@nd.edu 
BridgeND is a bipartisan student organization that brings students from across the political spectrum  together in discussions concerning public policy issues. The viewpoints expressed in this article do not  necessarily reflect the opinion of BridgeND but are the individual opinions of the author. Contact BridgeND at bridgend@nd.edu or follow them on Twitter at  @bridge_ND 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



By AUGIE COLLINS 
scene writer 

returning under the moniker of “The last shadow puppets” with a david bowie-inspired collaboration are the likes of the arctic monkey’s alex Turner and the rascals’ miles Kane, combining their tal­ents to fuel their latest record “everything you’ve come to expect.” after a stagger­ing eight-year stretch since they put out their well-received debut “The age of the understatement,” Turner and Kane return with a compilation of songs that dons the guise of a side project, but houses all of the qualities to pack the punch of a full-fledged album. 
after the release of “The age of the understatement,” it did not appear likely that the last shadow puppets would be producing much more in the near future. at the time, the arctic monkeys were quickly ascending the stairs to stardom, 
By TIM PUSATERI 
scene writer 

explosions in the sky’s purely instru­mental tracks build emotionally epic atmospheres. The lack of lyrics imparts artistic liberty to the listener, allowing us to independently craft a song’s meaning and story. song titles and melodies lay the foundation, but it is left to the listener to envision the details. This phenomenon, which allows fans to develop strong bonds to the music, is central to explosion’s ge­nius. Their latest album “The wilderness” is no exception to this pattern. 
explosions in the sky formed in austin, Texas, after drummer chris hrasky post­ed a flyer looking to form a “sad, trium­phant rock band.” Joined by mark smith, michael James and munaf rayani, the band emerged nationally after compos­ing the score for the 2004 film adaption of “friday night lights.” The band’s grow­ing popularity coupled with its incredible live performances poised them to become one of the modern leaders of the post-rock playing sold-out shows across the country. however, Kane remained hopeful for the possibility of a reunion, and in 2014 such hopes were realized upon the hiatus of the arctic monkeys. 
something about “everything you’ve come to expect” feels as if Turner and Kane simply deduced the formula for a hit album, and voila, out popped a record that is exactly what we would expect from the duo. which is, well, great. The album does not feel forced, or as if the two felt that they were obligated to return to the side project that had started to collect dust in the cor­ner. Turner begins to step out of his usual arctic monkeys persona, and that’s exactly what garnered their first album praise. The arctic monkeys have proven themselves to be stars of the alternative rock scene, but the question remained whether Turner could prove himself on a different front. so far he’s not leaving much room for doubt. 
with drummer James ford and string 
genre that includes acts such as mogwai and The echelon effect. 
The band’s april 1 release is like the warm embrace of a dear friend not seen for a long time. although the band has composed three movie soundtracks since their 2011 release of “Take care, Take care, Take care,” their sixth non-soundtrack al­bum serves as an excellent reemergence of independent explosions — not bound to the storyline of a movie script. The album illustrates explosions’ talent for tugging at heartstrings while simultane­ously painting unique landscapes that are somehow novel, yet also nostalgic. 
while this album shows significant experimentation, there is no question that the band’s distinctive guitar-driven symphonies are alive and well. Those in­trigued by the band’s evolution will enjoy “losing the light.” The song’s heartbeat-like synth-bass rhythm slowly drifts into an ambient, blissful duet of piano and strings in sync. The song features very little guitar, perhaps the band’s most recognizable cornerstone. for listeners arranger owen pallet, the album pumps out a variety of ever-changing tunes. This includes the up-beat and chaotic single “bad habits,” where Kane’s howling voice churns out verses over the sound of violins playing madly in the background. Toning it down in the soft and swaying “dream synopsis,” Turner takes us into the in­ner realms of his subconscious, as he la­ments, “isn’t it boring when i talk about my dreams?” though he knows we are far from being lulled to sleep, and instead, eager to hear more. 
overall, the last shadow puppets suc­ceed in producing a piece of art that is ev­ery bit as original and thought-provoking as their last effort. “everything you’ve come to expect” does not spoil as the track listing progresses, but instead gets better and better, providing an enthralling 40 minutes that will lead your cursor back to the play button as soon as the album comes to a close. let’s all hope this isn’t the 
longing for explosions’ booming guitar and bounding drum crescendos, “Tangle formations” and “infinite orbit” are sure to satisfy. 
one of the challenges with “The wilderness” is to uncouple it from the band’s recent string of soundtrack com­positions. explosions has spent more time than ever before writing music for the big screen, and one questions whether they are able to depart from this form of composition. The most likely case for this argument is the album single “logic of a dream.” The lulling reverberated guitar intro is followed by a blissfully booming synth-colored dream world. The curious setting suddenly turns dark as a marching drumbeat and distorted guitar transport the listener to a nightmare where we might be a soldier forging into an ominous battle. it is only a matter of time before this scene fades away and we are again comforted by a playful guitar and harp melody. The title of the song and its progression tell it all: it is a seven-minute exploration of the con­fusing disconnections of our dreams and premature swan song of a duo that holds the potential to grow and solidify them­selves as a top-of-the-line act in the alter­native rock scene. 
Contact Augie Collins at                          jcolli15@nd.edu 
‘Everything You’ve Come to Expect’ 
The Last Shadow Puppets 
Label: Domino Recording Company 
Tracks: “Dream Synopsis,” “Miracle Aligner,” “Everything You’ve Come to Expect” 
If you like: Arctic Monkeys, The Fratellis, Kaiser Chiefs 

the unfortunate result is a song that feels too scripted for explosions. 
stretching from mid april to late october, the austin natives will embark on a world tour that includes stops in asia, the united states and europe. local fans can check explosions out at chicago’s aragon ballroom, where they will be play­ing sept. 10. 
Contact Tim Pusateri at  tpusater@nd.edu 
‘The Wilderness’ 
Explosions in the Sky 
Label: Temporary Residence Limited 
Tracks: “Tangle Formations,” “Disintegration Activity,” “Colors in Space” 
If you like: Moqwai, The Echelon Effect, The Album Leaf, Tycho 



OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 


By ADAM RAMOS 
scene writer 

everything about the grateful dead is larger than life. The grass-root americana icons didn’t have fans; they had deadheads — unwavering group­ies whose cult-like antics have become just as celebrated as the group’s music. The dead didn’t play concerts; they played drug-fueled groove marathons featuring psychedelic-folk mastery. The grateful dead’s history has become in­exorably intertwined into music lore, and even today, just the name “grateful dead” conjures far more than then just music, but an entire movement, one with both far-reaching cultural and mu­sical impacts. 
while the idea of the grateful dead has become a bit dusty over time, and the “peace and love” mantra is admit­tedly a little trite, it was by no means chance that the unlikely group of hap­py-go-lucky groovsters found worldwide success and transcended the confines of the psychedelic hippie era during their extended life as a band. 
born under the creative prowess of singer/songwriter Jerry garcia, the grateful dead combined elements of bluegrass, folk and jazz into an amal­gam of free-spirited positivity. but it was the dead’s other-worldly live show that sealed the group’s fate to music im­mortality. with 10 live albums to boot, fans of all ages have the opportunity to get a glimpse into the “deadhead” experience. 
True to the grateful dead’s larger-than-life identity, the long-time-coming grateful dead tribute album “day of the dead” is beginning to take shape with epic proportions. according to the curators of the long-anticipated trib­ute, The national’s aaron and bryce dessner, the album will be released may 20 and all proceeds will benefit red hot organization, a not-for-profit dedicated to fighting aids through pop culture. The album is set to feature 59 differ­ent covers, pulling from a wide range of acts including perfume genius, lucius, anohni, wilco, local natives, real estate and unknown mortal orchestra, among many others. in total, the al­bum is expecting to run a whopping 326 minutes. 
despite the may release date, college-age deadheads fear not. as you quiver in your tie-dye shirts and purple-tinted sunglasses, shunning the thought of the inevitably-daunting finals week, bound to wreak havoc on the psyche, the dessners and co. have provided a bit of respite. a superb five-track preview to “day of the dead” is now available to stream, and it features an impressive list of talent, covering a short assortment of some of the dead’s classics. 
The preview appropriately begins with the grateful dead’s only single to crack the Top 40, “Touch of grey,” cov­ered by The war on drugs. “Touch of grey” was the first track to indoctri­nate me, like many others, into the wild world of the grateful dead. accessible and poppy, “Touch of grey” manages to maintain the dead’s jam band aesthetic while highlighting the group’s mastery of harmonies. even better, the track immediately establishes the tribute al­bum’s worth. 
while the tendency in covers is to sim­ply gloss over the original track and add nothing to the interpretation, The war on drugs shun this notion with their version of “Touch of grey.” front man adam granduciel’s sullen vocals behind the reverbed guitar and jingling synths mix tenderly into poignant reflection on original track. The remaining four tracks build off the opening song, each adding new perspectives to classics cov­ered, featuring phosphorescent, Jenny lewis & friends (“sugaree”), bruce hornsby and deyarmond edison (“black muddy river”), courtney barnett (“new speedway boogie”) and The national (“morning dew”). 
while the album will be released in a five-disc box set, digital download and in a limited edition vinyl box set, those lucky enough to attend the eaux claires music & arts festival will witness the only scheduled live performance of “day of the dead.” eaux claires, curated by “day of the dead” contributors Justin vernon (of bon iver) and aaron dessner, boasts an impressive lineup, featuring many other contributors to the album who will likely lend a hand in the live “day of the dead” performance. 
whether you were raised in a volkswagen bus, or are completely new to the dead, be sure to check out “day of the dead.” 
Contact Adam Ramos at                                        aramos6@nd.edu 


OLIVIA MIKKELSEN | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: step outside your comfort zone and do whatever has to be done to reach your goals. solutions will come to you through an unusual source. protect your reputation, position and assets. Taking care of legal, medical and financial matters should be your priority. consider every angle of any deal or plan you want to pursue and proceed with caution. your numbers are 9, 17, 21, 29, 34, 36, 43. 
Birthday Baby: you are ambitious, inventive and romantic. you are disciplined and persistent. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): set a good example for anyone who may consider you a mentor. stay on top of matters concerning peers, employers and dealing with institutions. it’s best to tie up loose ends before someone asks you to. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): your intuition will be spot-on when dealing with others. someone will take advantage of you or ask for a handout. offer solutions or advice instead, and you will be spared a loss of money and friendship. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep abreast of what everyone is doing. don’t count on partnerships to run smoothly. Keep your plans a secret until you are fully prepared to present a flawless layout of what you want to do. avoid indulgence. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): your expertise and insightful approach to handling personal and professional matters will lead to a better relationship with someone who shares your sentiments. enjoying the perks of a good relationship will improve your love life. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): look for something new that will get your heart pumping and your mind racing. Take on a challenge that encourages you to learn as you go and grow into something you’ve always wanted to be. a romantic celebration is favored. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): spend more time nurturing important relationships. discuss future plans and look for any differences that are best resolved before you move forward. an opportunity will arise through an exciting new partnership. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t keep secrets. Take care of legal, financial or medical matters concerning institutions. it’s best to flush out problems before they escalate. personal changes will add to your appeal. put a positive spin on your day. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): you’ll instinctively know what to do. don’t hesitate because someone is annoying you or putting demands on your time. do what’s most important to you. a change you make to the way you live will lead to a professional opportunity. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): use your intellect and ability to follow through with the changes that will improve your life, and you will bypass someone who is trying to mess with your emotions. accept the truth and keep moving forward. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): live, learn and pass the knowledge and experience you gain on to others. good fortune will be yours. Take pride in who you are and what you do, and make the most of opportunities. romance is encouraged. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): don’t live in the past, but do try to learn from your mistakes. you have a chance to bring about a personal change that will result in recognition, clout and greater appeal. an energetic, disciplined approach will lead to success. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): check out every angle before you make a move. something that appears to be doable could have underlying obstacles that might leave you in a vulnerable position. call in a favor if it will help clear up uncertainty and put your mind at ease. 

JUMBLE | david hoyT and Jeff KnureK 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | The observer 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Nova earned the championship 

Marek Mazurek 
sports editor 
as a north carolina fan, last night left me understandably unfulfilled. 
The no. 1-seeded Tar heels had been playing some of the best basketball we’ve seen this year in the ncaa, includ­ing commanding wins over notre dame and syracuse. The Tar heels had the best front court in college basket­ball and one of the greatest coaches in the game in roy williams. 
but last night, the pre­season favorites met their match in a feisty villanova team who made its living on heart and defense. and an insane shooting percentage. 
because that’s what last night’s national champion­ship game came down to: shooting. 
first, it was north carolina senior guard marcus paige who stepped up. with 4.7 sec­onds left, paige pump-faked in mid-air and launched an impossible shot that somehow found the bottom of the net. 
but fate was not on north carolina’s side. 
as time expired, wildcats junior forward Kris Jenkins dropped a 3-point dagger to write himself and no. 2 seed villanova into the history books. 
even michael Jordan could only nod in admiration as he looked on from the north carolina section. 
and though i was, and still am, upset — the loss cost me first place in The observer’s bracket pool — a realiza­tion hit me when the ncaa’s signature “one shinning moment” montage started. 
villanova is the best team in college basketball this year. 
That may seem obvious given the wildcats just won the ncaa tournament, but the winner of the tournament is not always the best team in the game that year. for exam­ple, had last year’s Kentucky team played the eventual champions, duke, in a 10­game series, Kentucky would have won nine of them. 
but for villanova, we won’t have to resort to hypotheti­cals. The wildcats are as close to perfection as any team in 2016 will come. 
The wildcats simply took care of business: They blew out an experienced wildcats lost to by 23 points in december. 
and against the second-best team in the tournament, villanova didn’t back down. all of north carolina’s length and talent only earned them a five-point halftime lead before the Tar heels fell short of earning williams his third title. 
but make no mistake: north carolina did not lose the game. villanova won it. 
The Tar heels shot 65 per­cent from 3-point range, both members of their backcourt scored at least 20 points and they pulled down 16 offensive rebounds to villanova’s two. 
but villanova just played better. it shot 58 percent from the field and got a key contribution off the bench from sophomore guard phil booth, who had a career-high 20 points on the night. oh, and there was Jenkins’ game-winner thrown in there somewhere. 
my point? north carolina played about as well as a team can play. but villanova matched them, punch for punch, and hoisted the trophy. 
and while i still feel for my Tar heels, i have to admit that they couldn’t have lost to a more deserving team. wildcats head coach Jay wright is a class act as far as coaches go, and if there’s any­one who deserved the chance to win it all, it’s him. 
and if there is a team that deserved some revenge against the Tar heels, it was the wildcats. in both of north carolina’s recent champion­ship runs, 2005 and 2009, the Tar heels knocked off the wildcats along the way. in 2005, it was in the sweet 16 on a last-second traveling call, and in 2009, it was in the final four. in 2013 as well, the eighth-seeded Tar heels knocked off the ninth-seeded wildcats in the first round. 
maybe it was this karma — or the karma of crying piccolo girl — but whatever it was, villanova finally exorcised its demons against north carolina in dramatic fashion. 
and so, while this year’s run may not have the same magic as the 1985 tourna­ment, the 2016 installment of the wildcats played some of the best college basketball we may ever see. 
and at least they aren’t duke. 
SMC LACROSSE 
belles set to host bulldogs in conference opener 
By ALEX BENDER 
sports writer 
saint mary’s hosts adrian on wednesday at saint Joseph high school in miaa action. 
The game marks the first conference matchup of the year for the belles (3-5). while the team is below .500 at this point in the season, head coach amy long said she feels very good about her team heading into this contest. 
“we are going into this game with confidence and excitement,” long said. “we have prepared for our con­ference games all season long and during our pre­season so it is very exciting that our first conference game is upon us. our team motto is ‘mTXe: mental Toughness, extra effort,’ and that best describes our mindset we will be enter­ing tomorrow’s game with. we are excited and ready to outwork adrian and stay mentally tough throughout the game.” 
saint mary’s has been competitive in most of its losses this season, includ­ing two one-goal defeats. many of its games have also been shootouts, as it has scored at least 10 goals in all but three of its games. as the belles enter this game, there is no plan to stray from their traditional game plan, long said. 
“our game plan is not changing drastically for to­morrow’s game,” long said. “we are continuing to build on the large team concepts we have been working on throughout this season and will have a focus on our ex­ecution. The details and basics cannot be forgotten while we are implementing our bigger picture strate­gies. specifically, we are determined to minimize turnovers and take care of the ball in everything we do.” 
The game against the bulldogs (1-6) will mark the start of an eight-game stretch of conference play for saint mary’s leading up to the miaa tournament. The tournament features the top four teams in the conference during the regu­lar season. 
“This is a huge game for us,” long said said. “earning the win in our first conference game will set the tone for us as we dive into conference play. our team goal is to finish in the top four to qualify for the miaa tournament. we are taking it one game at a time, but that is the direction we see our team going and what we plan to achieve this season. 
“i think we’ve had a great season so far. There are ob­viously a few close games that we suffered losses in we’d like another chance at, but we are focused on mov­ing forward and putting the lessons we learned in those games to good use as we begin conference play. it is beneficial to us that we had the opportunity to play against tough competition in many close games so far this season. we have im­proved drastically since our first game, which was four short weeks ago, and i look forward to seeing us contin­ually improve in the coming weeks. i am pleased with our season so far and am excited to show the confer­ence what we’re made of.” 
saint mary’s and adrian will face off at saint Joseph high school on wednesday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Alex Bender at             abender@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF | washingTon universiTy spring inviTe 
Saint Mary’s takes  eighth place in St. Louis 
Observer Staff Report 
saint mary’s finished eighth out of 12 teams in the washington university spring invite at the norman 
K. probstein golf course in st. louis this past weekend. 
on saturday, the belles battled challenging weath­er and an especially strong wind to shoot a team score of 352, landing them in sev­enth place. freshman Taylor Kehoe led saint mary’s on the first day, shooting a 15-over-par 85. other belles not far behind were senior sammie averill, who shot a 17-over 87, and junior cap­tain courtney carlson, who shot an 18-over 88. saint mary’s also received 22-over 92s from both junior captain ali mahoney and sophomore Kelsey conkright. senior captain Katie Zielinski also competed as an individual, shooting a 23-over 93. 
despite cutting eighteen strokes off their score from the opening round en route to a team score of 334 on sunday, the belles ended up falling one spot to finish the invitational in eighth place. averill led the belles with a 9-over 79 on the sec­ond day. Kehoe was not far behind, shooting an 11-over 
81.  both averill and Kehoe finished with a two day score of 166, putting them in a tie for 16th place in the tournament. not far be­hind for the belles, carlson finished the round with a 15-over 85, while mahoney shot a 19-over 89. conkright rounded out saint mary’s starting five, posting a 23­over 93 sunday afternoon. Zielinski competed as an in­dividual once again sunday, finishing with a 93 as well. 
no. 2 rhodes captured the invitational title with a two-day score of 613, 22 strokes better than runner-up carleton. while the belles were able to drop eighteen strokes from their score sunday, they were unable to move up in the standings and finished 73 strokes be­hind rhodes.  saint mary’s will look to improve upon its finish in its next tour­nament, the Trine spring classic at Zollner golf club in angola, indiana, which starts friday. 
miami team in the sweet 

16. They outlasted the top-Contact Marek Mazurek at overall seed, Kansas, in the mmazurek@nd.edu elite eight, and they blew    The views expressed in this oklahoma out of the wa-Sports Authority are those of ter in the final four — the the author and not necessarily same oklahoma team the those of The Observer. 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Plamondon 
conTinued from page 16 
in scoring defense, allow­ing only 6.63 goals per game. 
in fact, the irish have held all eight of their oppo­nents under their average-scoring outputs for the season, including allowing just four goals against no. 5 maryland. 
if notre dame is to break through, the key will be on the offensive end. somehow, that is where the irish have stalled in may in recent mem­ory. in fact, notre dame is averaging only 6.86 goals per game in the games it has been eliminated in the tournament over the last seven seasons. 
does the offense have what it takes this year? 
with the defense stifling opponents, the offense has done what it needs to do so far, averaging 11 goals per game. but that stat ranks an underwhelming 23rd nation­ally amongst 68 teams, be­hind every other top 10 team but maryland and no. 10 navy. 
what it may come down to is the resurgence of notre dame’s two preseason all-americans on the of­fensive end, senior attack matt Kavanagh and junior midfielder sergio perkovic. Kavanagh, coming off 69 goals combined over his last two seasons, has just 10 over his first seven games in 2016. 
perkovic has just 14 tallies in eight games, which is well be­hind the pace he was at last season when he scored 34. 
That being said, Kavanagh may finally be coming into his own after scoring three goals in notre dame’s rout of syracuse on saturday. 
either way, the irish ab­solutely need Kavanagh and perkovic to be at their best come tournament time. This team has no shortage of threats — particularly with another fantastic sea­son from sophomore attack mikey wynne and the emer­gence of others like fresh­man attack ryder garnsey 
— but it needs leaders like Kavanagh and perkovic to turn it into another gear. Those two need to make sure this team does not fizzle out due to its offense as it has in years past. 
as has been corrigan’s mantra, notre dame will take it one day at a time. somewhere along the way, however, Kavanagh and perkovic must find their form and take the reigns for this irish team. if they do not, notre dame’s 2016 season may end in heart­break like so many in recent memory. 
Contact Brian Plamondon at  bplamond@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | The observer 


Carson  stretch, it might not be the big-name players that lead that  
conTinued from page 16  push. This notre dame squad  
is deep, too — five other players  
has one of the best defenders  sit with 25 or more points this  
in the country, graduate student  year: junior midfielder casey  
barbara sullivan.  pearsall, freshman attack nikki  
but if the irish are going to  ortega, senior attack Kiera  
find another gear down the  mcmullan, junior attack grace  

paid adverTisemenT 

muller and junior attack heidi  — highlighted by no. 6 usc’s  now, they’re just a cut below  
annaheim.  visit april 18 — and it’s highly  teams like north carolina or no.  
That’s where this push needs  unlikely the irish would see  1 maryland.  
to come from if notre dame’s  an unranked foe in the acc  what can they be in a month  
going to find that next gear.  tournament. Though it isn’t a  or two?  
fortunato and sexton are al­ league game, that visit from  in my eyes, there’s no rea­ 
ready two of the best scorers  the Trojans is perhaps the most  son we can’t be sitting here on  
in the country — if one or two  pivotal game on the schedule; if  memorial day weekend talking  
of their teammates can start  you’re going to assert yourself as  about an irish squad that’s play- 
consistently finding the back of  a contender, it’s the type of con­ ing for a national championship  
the net a few times each game,  test you’ve got to win. a victory  in chester, pennsylvania. but  
there’s no limit to how deep  over the Trojans would show a  they still have one more step  
this squad can go in the ncaa  lot for the irish, not to mention  forward to take before we should  
tournament.  the seeding boost in the ncaa  entertain that too seriously.  
luckily for halfpenny, her  tournament that could come  
team’s going to have a couple  with it.  Contact Alex Carson at   
more opportunities to prove  at the end of the day, as we sit  acarson1@nd.edu 
itself the rest of the way: all  here in early april, we’ve figured      The views expressed in this  
four regular season contests left  out pretty well what notre dame  column are those of the author  
on the docket for notre dame  is. The irish are one of the na­ and not necessarily those of The  
are against ranked opposition  tion’s strongest team, but right  Observer.  


paid adverTisemenT 



“it’s a group that’s playing pretty loose. from an offensive stand­point, i feel like teams really have to make quality pitches to get us out. Then, i thought mike hearne tonight was outstanding. [Junior left hander] Jim orwick, for his one pitch, was really good. i thought [sophomorerighthander]brandon [bielak] looked really good at the end there. … i thought we played all three of the phases really well tonight.” 
richardson, who had career highs with three hits and two dou­bles en route to two rbis and two runs scored, put into perspective what a win over a quality team like michigan means moving forward. 
“it’s great, especially with them coming in here on a hot winning streak, being 17th in the country,” richardson said. “They’re a good team — one of the best in the coun­try. for us to come out here and compete like we did at this point was huge.” 
The irish have a second sched­uled midweek game coming up wednesday night against visiting valparaiso. should the weath­er hold out, the irish and the crusaders will meet at frank eck stadium at 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 




paid adverTisemenT 
Baseball 
conTinued from page 16 
dame to a 4-0 lead. 
and the irish second-inning ral­ly wasn’t done yet. with two outs, senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis hit a double of his own, bringing in richardson from third base to make it 5-0. 
notre dame added to its lead in the bottom of the fourth inning when sophomore designated hit­ter and pitcher Jake shepski hit an opposite-field, two-run home run over the left field wall, extending notre dame’s lead to 7-0. shepski leads the team with five home runs on the season. 
all with two outs in the fourth, the irish strung a walk and two hits together to add another run to the board. senior left fielder ricky sanchez, with his third hit of the night, brought in freshman right fielder matt vierling from sec­ond base, making the score 8-0. freshman third baseman nick podkul followed that up with an infield single, but the irish left the bases loaded to end the inning. 
in the bottom of the sixth inning, the irish extended their lead to 9-0. leading off the frame, vierling hit a ball high in the air that carried over the left-field wall with some help from the wind for a solo home run, his third of the season. 
senior left-hander michael hearne got the start for notre dame, tossing seven innings of three-hit, one-run ball for the win, his third of the season. he threw a total of 103 pitches before being replaced to start the eighth in­ning. hearne’s scoreless effort was spoiled by michigan junior short­stop michael brdar, who crushed a ball over the left field fence in the seventh and final frame for the senior. 
The wolverines then put up a four spot off a combination of irish sophomores shepski and brad bass in the top of the eighth inning to cut notre dame’s lead to 9-5, which is where the score would remain. 
“outside of that one inning there, i thought we played really well from beginning to end,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “all along i felt like this was — the way we’ve been playing for the last two or three weeks — is how i thought we’d play the whole thing. like i said, we got off to that slow start. but i think it speaks volumes to our team that they’ve stuck with it and they’ve hung in there and they didn’t let the little bit of disappoint­ment of the way we started the year affect anything else. 





ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2016 | The observer 


Softball 
conTinued from page 16 
is that she gave up some big hits, but she also did a great job of finding what she needed to do to be successful today,” gumpf said. 
The irish responded in the bottom of the frame, however, with an offensive flurry of its own. senior right fielder megan sorlie doubled to left center to drive in sophomore shortstop morgan reed and cut the deficit in half, 2-1. Three batters later, freshman second baseman ali wester drove in two more runs on a single that found its way past the shortstop. Then just two batters later, freshman desig­nated hitter caitlyn brooks hit a three-run homer to give the irish a commanding 6-2 lead. 
“caitlyn’s hit changed every­thing,” gumpf said. “i knew once we got one that we’d be fine — we could start getting momentum — but that hit was big because it just shut them down really fast.” 
irish junior rachel nasland re­placed rhodes on the mound in the top of the third inning, but she ran into trouble early. The right hander gave up three straight hits that led to a run and runners on second and third with no outs, but a passed ball that led to an out at the plate settled her down. she re­tired the next two batters to limit the damage, helping the irish maintain a 6-3 lead. 
“i think rachel got better as the day went on, for sure, and found the zone,” gumpf said. “she wasn’t finding the zone early, so that, i think, tripped her up a little bit. … i think she got in the groove, and she got better as the game went on, too.” 


both teams left runners on base during their next trips to the plate, but the irish extended their lead in the bottom of the fourth. notre dame was patient at the plate while Jaguars sophomore pitcher nickole finch struggled with her control, as finch walked three batters and hit two others in the frame. The free passes allowed the irish to score five runs on just two hits, pushing their lead to 11-3. 
“i think what we realized with [finch] is that when we were hit­ting in her zone, she was really suc­cessful,” gumpf said of her team’s fourth inning. “we had to make sure that she was the one stretch­ing the plate, and she wasn’t. we were hitting bad pitches. Then, we had a great approach to the plate, made her throw strikes and she was very unsuccessful, so that’s good.” 
sophomore Katie beriont replaced nasland on the mound for the irish in the top of the fifth. after walking the leading hitter, she retired the next three batters to close out the game via the mer­cy rule after five innings, 11-3. 
with Thursday’s game against depaul cancelled due to an in­clement weather forecast, notre dame will next take the field saturday when it begins its week­end series with pittsburgh. gumpf said the win provided the irish with important momentum as they head into the series. 
“we’re really just trying to find some rhythm before we hit pitt,” gumpf said. “pitt’s strength is of­fensive and they can hit the ball hard, and we just have to do a great job of making sure we’re playing our best ball.” 
notre dame and pittsburgh will play a doubleheader saturday and another game sunday at melissa cook stadium. first pitch for saturday’s first game is scheduled for 1 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanal@nd.edu 






BASEBALL | nd 9, michigan 5 
ND holds on to early lead, tops rival Michigan 
By HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame and no. 17 michigan renewed a rivalry stretching back to 1892 in a Tuesday game at frank eck stadium, with the irish build­ing up a big lead before having to hold off the red-hot wolverines for a 9-5 win. 
The irish (16-11, 6-6 acc) opened up the scoring in the bot­tom of the second inning after a walk, a hit and a hit batsman loaded the bases. Junior catcher ryan lidge just missed a home run to deep center, but settled for a two-run double and a 2-0 irish lead. The wolverines (20-6, 3-0 big Ten) pulled freshman left-hander william Tribucher after he failed to record an out in the four batters he faced in the frame. 
The next batter, senior center fielder Kyle richardson, drove the third pitch from michigan fresh­man right-hander Troy miller to the fence in left field for another two-run double, staking notre 
see baseball PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
depth key to taking next step 

Alex Carson 
assistant managing editor 
at this point, i think we know what no. 7 notre dame is. 
The irish (10-3, 3-3 acc) have lost to no. 3 north carolina, no. 4 syracuse and no. 5 louisville. They’ve beaten no. 10 stanford, no. 11 princeton, no. 15 virginia and no. 17 boston college. 
To this point, notre dame has been nothing if not consis­tent. irish head coach christine halfpenny’s squad is probably where most expected it to be at the start of the season — really good, but still not quite in the national title discussion. 
The question: in the next month, can the irish take that next step, the one that makes the goal of a national title feasible, more than just an aim to get to the final weekend? 
in its losses to louisville and syracuse, notre dame was right in it — the defeat at louisville came in double overtime, while the orange used a late 3-0 run to their advantage in a 12-11 win at arlotta stadium. 
sunday’s defeat at north carolina was a little different, though. The Tar heels controlled the majority of the game, and notre dame really only looked like a potential threat to win after it closed a 9-1 deficit to 11-8 with 
14:06 to play. 
The loss left the irish firmly on the outside looking in when it comes to the acc regular season title picture, but how the team responds from its first significant defeat of the year, a 14-8 loss, will tell a lot. against the cardinals and orange, the irish could fall back on “being close.” 
They couldn’t do that sunday. 
and that’s where notre dame’s veteran leadership should prove beneficial moving forward. a good year was expected from this team because all the key players were back; the attacks leading the squad in goals, junior cortney fortunato 
(39) and senior rachel sexton (34) have been here and done that, as 
see carson PAGE 13 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

irish offense needs to deliver 

Brian Plamondon 
sports writer 
having been at the helm for 28 years, irish head coach Kevin corrigan knows what it takes to make it through a long season. one of the common themes that he instills in his players is to never look ahead but to take the season day-by-day instead. 
“[i’m] not getting caught up in expectations, because the only expectation that i want them to have is that we’re going to be as well prepared as we can possibly be every time we strap it up on saturdays,” corrigan said before the start of the season. 
he even has his players talking that way. 
“i think we’re trying to … leave the field better than we stepped on [every day],” senior defender matt landis said earlier in the year. “if we look at it that way, and we’re not getting bet­ter every day, i don’t think we’ll get to the national championship.” 
so what will it take for notre dame to finally get over the hump and win its first national championship? 
To put it bluntly, notre dame has been here before. The irish have been to four of the last six final fours, including two runner-up finishes. This time, as the 2016 lacrosse season pushes into april, the irish find themselves ranked no. 1 with a record of 7-1. They have played sound lacrosse for the most part, only losing once in overtime to the de­fending national champion, denver. 
if this is to be the year, however, a few things need to change. 
while the irish will need to make some adjustments, they should not have to wor­ry about their defense mov­ing forward. 
returning all three start­ers and led by a preseason all-american in landis, the irish are in good hands. nationally, they rank third 
see plamondon PAGE 13 
ND SOFTBALL | nd 11, iupui 3 
notre dame extends nonconference streak 
By BEN PADANILAM 
associate sports editor 
a no. 20 notre dame won its 18th straight nonconfer­ence game Tuesday, defeating iupui 11-3 at melissa cook stadium. 
it was the Jaguars (10-22, 0-4 summit) who struck first in the game when senior sec­ond baseman ali mosier hit a two-out solo home run in the top of the first inning to give her team an early 1-0 lead. 
a two-out homer hurt the irish (27-6, 5-3 acc) again in the top of the second inning, as Jaguars freshman desig­nated hitter Kaitlynn moody connected on the first-pitch offering of irish senior allie rhodes and sent it over the fence to left-center field to ex­tend the Jaguars’ lead to 2-0. 
irish head coach deanna gumpf said rhodes might not have had her best perfor­mance in her two innings of work, but she had command over her pitches and found a way to pitch effectively. 
“The great thing about allie 
see sofTball PAGE 15 





