The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 94 | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s introduces new president 
Former University of Arizona dean Jan Cervelli will return home to South Bend as new leader of College 
By HALEIGH EHMSEN 
saint mary’s editor 
south bend native Jan cervelli was introduced to the saint mary’s community wednesday afternoon as the 12th president of the college. 
cervelli said she grew up across the st. Joseph river and it has been a “wonderful homecoming” to be back in the community. 
“god has taken me on so many great journeys, and he brought me back here for the greatest purpose of all,” she said. 
cervelli said she is not the only one thrilled to be back home; her mother, a resident of granger, said she is happy to have Jan back in the area. cervelli said she has been run­ning into classmates and neigh­bors since she has been back and has received a tremendous amount of support from the community. 
cervelli attended holy cross grade school and saint Joseph high school in south bend. her sister, patricia, is a saint mary’s alumna and member of the class of 1972. cervelli chose purdue because of her interest in architecture, though she would have liked to attend saint mary’s, she said. 
“i’ve always appreciated the 
see presidenT PAGE 5 

MONICA VILLAGOMEZ MENDEZ | The Observer 
Incoming Saint Mary’s College President Jan Cervelli addresses the student body in a ceremony Wednesday afternoon. Cervelli will take office as the 12th president of Saint Mary’s on June 1, 2016. 


day of man marks 10 years 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
The ramblers of siegfried hall braved below-freezing tempera­tures in just shorts, tank tops and flip-flops wednesday as part of the 10th annual day of man. 
The dorm’s signature event came into existence a decade ago when a resident of siegfried realized how prevalent the prob­lem of homelessness in south bend was, particularly with the harsh midwest winters, accord­ing to siegfried sophomore mark cerutti. 

cerutti said he spent the day ANNMARIE SOLLER | The Observer 
Wearing T-shirts and shorts, residents of Siegfried Hall collect  see day oF man PAGE 4 donations from students to support the homeless. 

2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: JOSHUA KAPLAN 



Scalia’s death impacts race 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer
     Editor’s Note: Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, The Observer will sit down with Notre Dame experts to break down the election and its importance to students. In this fifth installment, News writer Rachel O’Grady asks Professor of Political Science and Director of Undergraduate Studies Joshua Kaplan about the death of Justice Antonin Scalia and the upcoming South Carolina primary. 
rachel o’grady: The death of Justice scalia is a major po­litical point of contention now. what does this mean for obama and his legacy? does it have any implications on the election?
     Joshua kaplan: This is a very significant development. The selection of a new justice has the potential to change the balance of a court. as a result, the stakes are very high for both parties, as well as for interest groups. in the short term, i believe it will especially energize clinton’s supporters and perhaps cruz’s supporters on the republican side the most because those voters are more likely to see a 
see elecTion PAGE 5 

STUDENT SENATE 


Group debates Cosby degree 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
at wednesday night’s student senate meeting, junior grace watkins asked the group for help in facilitating dialogue on the honorary degree conferred by the university to bill cosby in 1990. 
badinhallsenatorsophomore alex Fincher yielded the floor to watkins, her constituent, who said in the past several months, several of the university’s peer institutions have chosen to re­scind honorary degrees given to cosby in light of several dozen allegations of sexual assault that have come against him in the past year. 
“The great majority of christian universities have chosen to rescind,” watkins said. “catholic universities like marquette and Fordham have issued statements saying that it was inconsistent with their catholic morals to continue to let him have this honorary de­gree. we are one of roughly six universities that have said we wouldn’t rescind.” 
in a statement to the south bend Tribune in september, university spokesperson paul browne said there was no prec­edent at notre dame for rescind­ing an honorary degree and that the university would not rescind cosby’s. 
watkins said she hoped senate could help foster dialogue about the issue on campus. 
“There are different ways that senate could act on this issue,” watkins said. “ … There should be more discussions about what it means to give an honorary degree, especially a catholic honorary degree, and who is deserving of holding it. There is also the stronger push to ask the administration to revoke the degree. 
“he admitted to drugging women with strong sedatives, explicitly in order to have sex with them. That is already a clear violation of how our university defines consent. … The way i think of it is that it should be in­tuitively obvious when someone isn’t deserving of a degree any­more, i see that as separate from being controversial.” 
Junior louis bertolotti, ex­ecutive director of the student union board (sub) and non­voting member of senate, said 
see senaTe PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 7 scene PAGE 8 bengal bouTs PAGE 16 women’s baskeTball PAGE 16 




ndsmcobserver.com 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 
Managing Editor  Business Manager
                   Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What kind of bird is Nelly Furtado? 

Itzxul Moreno 
junior le mans hall 
“pheasant.” 

Eileen Madigan 
sophomore pasquerilla east hall 
“Toucan.” 

Sydnee Mayers 
sophomore cavanaugh hall 
“swan.” 

Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 


Patrick Krauss 
senior st. edward’s hall 
“dodo bird.” 

Mitch Meersman 
junior carroll hall 
“phoenix.” 


Paul Niehaus 
sophomore carroll hall 
“hummingbird.” 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 
The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 
a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 




Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
margaret hynds alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jp gschwind marek mazurek kathryn marshall rachel o’grady 
Graphics Scene 

Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday 
lucy du John darr 


Photo Viewpoint 

Chinese New Year’s “The Bear” and Alex Wilson ND Women’s Lacrosse “Getting Started in 
sarah olson scott olehnik 
Gala “Afterplay” Invitational vs. Boston College Research” 
Washington Hall DeBartolo Performing Loftus Sports Center  Arlotta Stadium Brownson Hall 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Arts Center all day  12 p.m.-2 p.m. 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 


Corrections 

Performances of 7:30 p.m.-10 p.m. Men’s and women’s The Irish take on the Workshop on initiating 
The observer regards itself as Chinese songs. Two spirited comedies. indoor track competes. Eagles. a project on campus. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
SUB Movie: Improv Show: Junior Parents Solemn Vespers An Evening with 
of journalism at all times. we do, 

“Brookyln” “Second City” Weekend Concert Basilica of the Sacred Anna Deavere Smith 
however, recognize that we will make 
DeBartolo Hall Washington Hall Ricci Band Rehersal Heart O’Laughlin Auditorium 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
8 p.m.-10 p.m. 9 p.m.-11 p.m. Hall 7:15 p.m.-8:15 p.m. 7:30 pm-9 p.m. 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
An Irish immigrant falls Join Second City for a 2 p.m.- 4 p.m. Evening prayer in the Performance on the 
we can correct our error. 

in love. night of laughter. Jazz performances. Lady Chapel. narrative of Ferguson. 




saint mary’s writing center launches workshops 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
The saint mary’s writing center will be presenting four workshops over the next four weeks to help students improve their writing skills. 
director of the writing center aaron bremyer said the hour-long workshops will be 

led entirely by student tutors who work in the center. he said each workshop will follow students through the writing process. 
“There was a need,” he said. “in speaking with professors across campus, we felt like there were a lot of professors who were really happy to have this sort of conversation from experienced tutors.” 
bremyer said he hopes that through the workshops, stu­dents will not only learn more about the process itself but also in the resources the writing center has to offer. 
“i think a lot of people mis­understand what the writing center is about,” he said. “a lot of people think you come to the center and you sit with a tu­tor and she fixes [your paper]. That’s not at all what we do. in fact, that would be an unethi­cal approach to collaborating with students. i thought this sort of discussion could help more students understand that some of our very best tutorials occur before anyone has writ­ten a word.” 
he said he wants students to think of writing as a gradual process rather than something that happens in one sitting. 
“i think [the workshops] are important because many stu­dents misunderstand the writ­ing process or have developed bad habits,” he said. “we all have them. but this shows that the process should be spread out to avoid the last minute adrenaline-driven composi­tion of a paper. … if we can get to people earlier, they’ve begun the writing process, and some­times that first step is incred­ibly powerful because it allows people to be better prepared.” 
because the workshops are peer-led, bremyer said they will provide students with a role model for their writing. 
“it’s more powerful to have a peer whom [students] respect, a peer who has demonstrated that she is a successful writer on this campus,” he said. “i think it’s more powerful for students to see those types of women presenting these ideas.” 
senior nellie petlick, one of the tutors at the center who led monday’s workshop, said despite the low turnout for the first workshop of the series, she believes the students who attended benefitted from the personal attention. she said students should continue to attend the workshops because they offer multiple perspectives on the writing process. 
“it’s good to get different perspectives sometimes, to hear from students who have 

paid adverTisemenT 

been through who struggle with writing every day,” petlick said. “[Tutors from the writing center] are not presenting ourselves as the authority on writing. … They can get a per­spective that’s not just their professors, and we can talk about it in a different way that might be useful to them.” 
petlick said she hopes through the workshops, stu­dents will learn to have more 


“A lot of people think you come to the Center and you sit with a tutor and she fixes [your paper]. That’s not at all what we do. In fact, that would be an unethical approach to collaborating with students. I thought this sort of discussion could help more students understand that some of our very best tutorials occur before anyone has written a word.” 
Aaron Bremyer 
director 
Saint Mary’s Writing Center 
confidence in their writing abilities. 
“There’s no such thing as perfect writing,” she said. “it’s different for everybody. even people who have been writing for decades are not perfect writ­ers. we have a lot of women who come into the center who want to apologize for their writing. … They shouldn’t think like that. everyone is a good writer, and everyone can get better. 
“it’s always just trying to im­prove your own style and trying to make yourself the best writer you can be, but there’s no stan­dard to which you should com­pare yourself.” 
The next three workshops are open to all students and will take place in 210 madeleva hall next Tuesday, Feb. 29 and march 15 at 6:30 p.m. 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


Senate 
conTinued From page 1 
calling for the university to revoke the honorary degree could have ramifications in the cases of other honorary degrees, as well. 
“looking over the list [of peo­ple awarded honorary degrees], there’s a lot of political figures,” he said. “if we were to say that bill cosby’s actions are not allowed in catholic character, you could say that barack obama’s policies on abortions are not allowed in catholic character. … if we do go forward with [forming a resolu­tion], we need to set forward a very specific thing that says, ‘This is why,’ we want this.” 
along with bertolotti and other senators, director of constituent services and st. edward’s hall senator John kill expressed con­cern that using the argument that cosby’s actions disavow catholic moral character would have far-reaching implications. he suggested drafting a resolution specific to the case at hand. 
“my suggestion would be, if we were to pass a resolution … we would have to frame it on the sexual assault Title iX policies,” kill said. “ … The language would have to be very specific as to why. we should probably dissuade ourselves from any broad moral principles.” 
keenanhallsenator sophomore wilson barrett said he would sup­port a resolution regarding future conferral of honorary degrees. 
“we can also encourage the university to be very careful when we give honorary degrees to in the future,” barrett said. “we could understand the power that comes with an honorary degree, and what we want to stand for.” 
after the discussion, the senate passed a motion to form a com­mittee of volunteers to look into the issue. 
also at wednesday night’s meeting, student union treasurer, senior Jane goodson, nominated mason shinn for the position for the next term. The treasurer’s responsibilities include oversee­ing the budget of the student union, running the Financial management board and allocat­ing funds to the different branches of student government. 
“[shinn] has been one of my as­sistants all year long,” goodson said. “he has done a great job tak­ing notes, being present, being involved.” 
kill proceeded to present on the second periodic report of the stu­dent government online forum, onward. 
The report includes ideas, previ­ous efforts, possible approaches to solving the problem, any updates, points of contacts and project timelines, according to kill. 
according to the report, the top three ideas are re-evaluating restaurants in laFortune, im­proving wi-Fi on the quads and adding berries in the dining halls, which are all in various stages of ideation, consideration and implementation. 
Contact Justine Wang at  jwang@nd.edu 


Day of Man 
conTinued From page 1 

outside the laFortune student center, south dining hall and debartolo hall asking passers­by for donations for the south bend center for the homeless. 
“physically, the cold here at notre dame could kill you or at the very least could get you pretty sick, but mentally, i can’t fathom how someone home­less could really withstand the cold, knowing that there’s no end,” cerutti said. “The south bend center for the homeless is such a worthy cause for do­nation because the donations of students and faculty can directly affect the lives of the needy, who live so close to us even though we seldom, if ever, see them.” 
sophomore elek wellman said the worst part of his day was not the temperature, but the wind. 
“The biggest challenge of the day was the freezing wind,” wellman said. “it felt like the wind was cutting my skin. … hopefully, day of man shows the notre dame students to be grateful for the utilities we have which make the cold win­ter bearable. 
“The point of the day is to make people think about the struggles homeless people en­counter on a daily basis during these winter months.  people see us struggling to merely walk from class to class, but many homeless people have the same struggle throughout the entire day.” 
senior event organizer alex campbell said the idea behind day of  man is that, by braving the cold for one day, siegfried students might help allevi­ate some of the cold the city’s homeless experience, particu­larly at night. 
“The high today was around 33 degrees, which is actu­ally relatively warm as far as be more mindful of the bless­ings in my life,” campbell said. “specifically with regard to the problem of homelessness, it’s taught me that people can end up without a home for a variety of reasons and that the con­sequences can be much far­ther reaching than one might think. … i think we all learn to be a little more grateful, a little more humble and a little more compassionate.” 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 

day of man is concerned,” campbell said. “nevertheless, it’s still pretty cold, and i think gives us a small amount of in­sight into what the homeless go through on a daily basis. it certainly isn’t easy, and some of the freshmen do take some convincing, but i think after­ward we all definitely feel it’s worth it.” 
campbell said the day of man typically raises several thousand dollars. 
“The several thousand dol­lars raised during day of man is largely a sum of small dona­tions,” campbell said. “There’s the notion that ‘nobody has to do everything, but everybody has to do something,’ and i like to think of a problem like homelessness in the same way. it’s a large, complex and dif­ficult problem, but every little bit helps.” 
in his last year participating in day of man, campbell said he has learned a lot. 
“over the past four years, i think day of man has taught me a lot — it’s taught me to 
paid adverTisemenT 



paid adverTisemenT 



Election 
conTinued From page 1 
direct connection between the issues they care about most and the decisions the court makes. but it may encourage votes to go with the most electable candi­date. This appointment will also test the limits of the strategy in congress that has meant denying president obama victories when­ever possible. 
it remains to be seen whether there will be pushback from that strategy. in particular, we will see how this plays out for the republican senators up for reelection this year in states such as illinois, wisconsin, pennsylvania, ohio and new hampshire. it is unlikely to be an issue that changes the balance in the senate, but it could have ram­ifications beyond the presidential election. it also has the potential to further politicize the supreme court, an institution that likes to think of itself as different from the political branches, and possi­bly damage its credibility if peo­ple see it as no different from the political branches. 
rog: The south carolina pri­maries are this saturday. what should we be looking for? can sanders pull off another win? 
Jk: a sanders victory in south carolina, regarded as part of clinton’s “firewall,” would indi­cate real trouble with her cam­paign, since south carolina plays to her strengths. but the primary process is a long way from over. 
rog: michael bloomberg has expressed a degree of interest in running as an independent. what does that mean for the election as a whole, and who or which party does he hurt more by running? 
Jk: it is hard for me to imag­ine a mainstream democrat so unhappy with sanders, or so unenthusiastic about clinton, that they would bolt the party for bloomberg. would moderate republicans would find their nominee — whether it’s Trump or cruz — to be so unacceptable that they would bolt the party and vote for bloomberg? There is certainly a potential split within the party, but the more likely pattern would be for conserva­tive voters to reject a moderate nominee. we have seen liber­tarian candidates draw support from republican candidates, and we remember ralph nader in 2000. but i do not think we are at the point yet when moderate republicans or democrats are ready to leave their party. what normally happens in such situa­tions is that voters [who are] un­enthusiastic about their party’s nominee just don’t vote. it is clear that many voters are looking for someone different, but i don’t think that bloomberg is the per­son they have in mind. 
rog: in your research and opinion, what do you think will be the most important issue in the general election? 
Jk: This is more complicated than it seems. The economy is the number one issue, but it is today not an issue where the po­sitions break evenly along party lines, and voters are not making decisions simply on the basis of of their policy preferences or the positions of the candidates on particular issues. The same would be true for national se­curity. i don’t think voters have much confidence that either party can simply fix these threats to our well-being, which is why they are looking for alternatives. but in the end, elections are not necessarily driven by issues in a straightforward way. rather vot­ers see issues through lenses that are colored by a variety of other factors. 
rog: Taking it back to college campuses, particularly here at notre dame, primaries in many of our home states are coming up. what is something we, as col­lege students, should be paying particular attention to? 
Jk: Think about what you re­gard as the main problems in the world today. is your member of congress or senator, or the presi­dential candidate you are think­ing about supporting, part of the problem or part of the solution? Think about what you look for in a candidate and why you con­sider those things to be the most important. go beyond the labels and clichés. all candidates say they want to improve the econo­my and make us safer. how will they do that? do you believe that will work? what things are best done by individual decisions as to how we want to live our lives? what things go beyond our in­dividual decisions and are most effectively handled at the policy level? what would you like the future to look like? what combi­nation of individual actions and government policies will help make that happen? 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 


President 
conTinued From page 1 
seamlessness about spiritual­ity and subjects taught [in holy cross education],” she said. “The spiritual dimension gives much more meaning and depth to the education.” 
coming from a background of larger universities, cervelli is leaving a position as dean of the college of architecture, planning and landscape architecture and professor of landscape connections that can be made to make the educational environ­ment even richer at the college. 
she said her first priority as president of the college is get­ting to know the staff, faculty and students. 
“i want to be able to have strong conversations and spend time understanding from the student perspective,” she said. “i like to call it a listening tour.” 
additionally, cervelli said she wantd to immerse herself into student life at the college. 
“i want to become a part of the class of 2020,” she said. “ … i want to be able to walk the walk with students and see what it’s like to take classes, to live in the dorm, to eat the food.” 
her next priority is to get to know the alumnae around the country, cervelli said. 
“saint mary’s has fabulous alumnae, who are super accom­plished and well connected, so i’m looking forward to getting to know people and allowing people to get to know me,” she said. 
cervelli plans to build on the partnerships with holy cross in­stitutions including notre dame and holy cross and to invite the community at large to campus in a highly visible way, she said. 
“saint mary’s is so modest,” she said. “it’s a real strength and a wonderful quality; on the same token, [we] need to brag a little bit more, so i’d like to work with the staff here to look at how we can make our mark on the world and share our accomplishments.” 
cervelli hopes to help create a more sustainable campus using her professional background and expertise. 
“i’m very interested in looking at the campus itself, as a land­scape architect and how can we begin to design, redesign and look to the future of development that makes the campus sustain­able,” she said. 
she said many students are in­terested in issues of sustainability today and she believes the leader­ship of the students could help to guide that discussion. 
cervelli said she will bring a few pets to south bend from arizona and looks forward to reconnect­ing with her childhood friends. emphasizing the importance of balance in her life, cervelli cited some of her interests outside of her academic career. 
“i have been in rock bands since i was in high school,” cervelli said. “i had the chance to join a band and tour in college, but i knew that my parents wouldn’t be very happy.” 
although she most often per­formed as a singer, cervelli said she can also play guitar and the keyboard. 
she said she gave up music be­tween graduate school and her career as a professor and dean but later picked up the hobby again. 
“when i got to arizona, one of the faculty in architecture heard that i used to do music … so we got together with some gradu­ate students, played guitar and jammed. we put together a band that would play at events for the university and other events in downtown Tucson.” 
cervelli while she derives a sense of balance from music, she places value on all activities that provide it to students. 
“The wellness of students is important to me,” she said, and the renovation of angela athletic Facility will be crucial to that wellness and helping students to live a balanced lifestyle. 
cervelli said her passion for students, music and wellness will dovetail nicely into her role as the president. 
“it’s in college where you begin to learn that balance,” she said. “all leaders should demonstrate how to live that balance.” 
she will also institute an open door policy when she takes office June 1. 
“i want students to know that i have an open door,” cervelli said. “i will drop what i have to because i know that if a student is coming, then it’s important.” 
Contact Haleigh Ehmsen at hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
architecture at the university of arizona. 
she said the smaller school at­mosphere is exciting because of the sense of intimacy, the strong connection to students and she cited the 10:1 student-to-pro­fessor ratio at the college as a testament to how saint mary’s fully engages students in the classroom. 
she also said her experience in landscape architecture, which is taught in a small studio settings, lends itself well to her under­standing of how learning happens 
paid adverTisemenT 
in a more intimate setting. 
prior to her work at the university of arizona, cervelli served as the first female dean at clemson university when she was selected as its dean of the college of architecture, arts and humanities, according to a college press release.  she has also served as associate dean for undergraduate studies and director of the Teaching and learning center at the university of kentucky. 
cervelli said she recognizes the importance of interdisciplinary 



INSIDE COLUMN 



The perfect shot 
Caitlyn Jordan 
photographer 

an hour before the notre dame-virginia football game, i’m standing outside the front gates of the stadium. The standard proce­dure for a photographer is to allow a security guard to check your equipment. i gave the man at the check-in gate my camera bags, waiting for him to give me the okay. 
except, it didn’t happen. 

“miss, i’m sorry, but you can’t shoot with this lens,” the guard said, pointing out my 200-400mm lens that’s about a foot long. “you see, only professionals can take photos with those types of lens. a non-working per­son, like yourself, must have a lens less than six inches long.” 
showing him my press pass, i told him i’m a paid photographer, a professional. The guard shook his head, telling me he had to ask his supervisor if my pass was “the right kind” for on-field photography. i waited. 
it’s late, and i’m shooting a dome dance. i decide that going upstairs and pointing my camera down on the crowd would create some great angle shots. on the upper level, there’s a lone male usher up there, making sure none of the guests sneak up and run around the rest of the administration build­ing. i turn my focus to the crowd below me, hanging over the rail to get the perfect shot. a few minutes later, i feel movement on my back. To my disbelief, i found the usher was not only touching my back but also pretend­ing to grind on me. i stood next to the female usher the rest of the party, alert. 
Touching, sweet-talking, even mentions of “finding a good husband,” i’ve come to real­ize are actions that one must deal with in a female photographer’s world. i know what i have to do to get the “perfect shot” and, when by myself, i’m confident that i can. however, when i walk in a stadium, court, field, you name it, and see the lines of men waiting for the game to start, that confidence shatters. Thoughts race in my mind. “what am i doing here? are my clothes too tight? will someone try to come over and touch me? great, i have to have one eye on the game and one eye on my shoulder.” 
it’s terrifying. but, that terror, that urge to give up, helps me move on with my job. i want to be leader and make a pathway for other women to have a similar job experience as me. To capture that perfect photo, in the last seconds of a game. as women, we have the same rights to be part of photographers’ and sports’ discourse as any male. To give up my passion due to someone’s lack of respect would be a dishonor to myself and towards other women in the same profession. 
Contact Caitlyn Jordan at cjordan5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Unmasking Mary this Lent 
Jennifer Vosters 
belleview 

growing up, i had a hard time finding a connec­tion to mary. she’s got more titles — blessed virgin, mother of god, Queen of heaven, our lady of (in­sert here) — than speaking lines in the gospels. The images of her on my rosaries showed a flawless face somehow both serene and severe. in prayers, she was “blessed among women,” the chief role model for catholic girls. but, unlike Jesus, whom we can characterize fairly well after reading the new Testament, all we had to go on was her “yes,” the yes that set her apart. (side note: even god checked for consent!) 
but it can be hard to see mary as an example of womanhood because we average women know we can’t live up to her standard of perfection — perfec­tion that at its core revolves around some idea of beauty, both spiritual and physical. in art, she is as beatific and superhuman as the angels. in prayers she is a powerful, detached figure, a “holy Queen” to whom we fly, poor banished children of that other woman whose shadow we’re still trying to shrug off. but in glorifying mary’s “feminine” grace — her vir­ginity, passivity, innocence and chaste beauty — we ignore mary’s womanhood. The catholic specimen of woman — venerated and popularized by centu­ries of (mostly male) theologians and clergy and artists — is barely shown as a woman at all. she is silenced, beautified and whitewashed — and only then is she the woman we should strive to emulate. a portrait of a white male fantasy, however holy that portrait may be. 
mary the woman was not white. she was not blonde or blue-eyed; she did not wear mantles of blue falling in rich folds around her feet. by our contemporary standards, she may not even have been “beautiful” at all. at the time of Jesus’ birth, she would have been in her early teens. she might have had blocked pores and greasy hair. she would have gotten her period. (no, don’t skip over that sen­tence: periods are healthy, not unholy.) and though catholic doctrine maintains she was a virgin her whole life, she was also a human being who probably had sexual feelings like everybody else, whether or not she ever experienced a sexual relationship. (For the record, other denominations do not share this belief of perpetual virginity.) 
as she aged, she would have gotten gray hairs and wrinkles. she would have lost her girlish figure and gotten stretch marks from childbirth. she may even have lost teeth. in short, mary lived in a woman’s body, experiencing all the awkward, beautiful fac­ets of the female body. her life journey — and god’s presence within it — validates and blesses the uni­versal life cycle of womanhood. so why is that mary not beautiful enough to paint? why is a middle eastern mother not recognized as Queen of heaven? 
miriam of nazareth: the frightened, faithful Jewish girl who meets the angel’s greeting not with divine understanding but with confusion and dis­belief (“how can this be?”). The dejected young woman facing judgment for being unmarried and pregnant. The refugee fleeing to egypt. The terrified mother looking for her lost son. The proud mother who embarrasses him at a friend’s wedding to get him to act. The worried mother who hears Jesus call his friends his true family when she goes to caution him in his ministry. The grieving mother of a con­victed criminal executed by the state. she was active and strong and human, and she was enough for god. why not for us? 
maybe we think mary is too familiar to fly to be­cause we can turn on the news and see her fleeing syria, mourning a murdered child. we can look out our window and see that mary breastfeeding at the bus stop. we can look in the mirror and see that mary struggling to imagine her future. 
when we separate mary the poor nazarene from mary Queen of heaven, or replace her entirely, we miss the crucial message she offers us: that the ordi­nary can be holy, that we don’t need to look a certain way or come from a certain place to be worthy, that we don’t need to be in power to be important. by distorting mary’s image to match our own ideals, we suggest that her ethnicity and gender — as they are 
— are not acceptable for a prominent figure of faith. yet this is who god chose. who are we to “perfect” her? who are we to substitute her strength with our arbitrary standards? 
and who are we to ignore the marys in our own lives and times: the refugees, widows, mothers of prisoners and women without a voice? who are we to see what she was — in body, mind and spirit — as anything less than what she is: blessed and full of grace? 
Jennifer Vosters is a senior living in Le Mans Hall. She is an English major with minors in theatre and Italian. She can be reached at jvoste01@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
in defense of diverse presidents 
dear eddie, 
i read your viewpoint letter, “Threat to our reli­gious roots,” and found it quite worrisome. The bulk of your letter argues the united states is a christian nation and that the election of a non-christian to the presidency would signify a moral decline towards “oblivion.” 
you’re right when you state the First amendment does not declare the united states a godless nation. however, it doesn’t flow logically from there to declare the united states a christian nation, which you state verbatim. The united states is an amalgam of almost every religion on the planet. it is this mixing of val­ues that make the united states what it is. you said it yourself when you stated, “america’s exceptionalism is rooted in its religious influences.” i agree, with an em­phasis on the plural “influences.” 
i would also like to point out that christianity does not have exclusive rights to morality. one can be moral without believing in the divinity of Jesus christ. it’s a person’s actions that define his or her character after all. 
i think it’s far more frightening that a man who’s uttered racist, xenophobic, misogynist and offen­sive statements won the republican party’s new hampshire primary, but that’s just me. 
Rob Ryan 
class of 2012 Feb. 11 



christian stories for atheists 
Christopher Damian 
ideas of a university 

when i first read “harry potter,” i secretly waited for a letter from hogwarts. part of growing up was realizing that the letter would never come. it’s like the young c.s. lewis said, when confronted with the confrontation between poetic myth and hard ratio­nalism: “nearly all that i loved i believed to be imagi­nary; nearly all that i believed to be real i thought grim and meaningless.” 
my christian friends sometimes argue with non­christians or former christians as if the church door is opened by catechesis or apologetics or theol­ogy. but there are many non-christians who find christianity compelling and who are drawn into its story. many see its modes of thought and proposed ways of life as magical and mystical and lovely as any fairy tale. They find its arguments as consistent and sensible as any philosophy. but, however good the story, however much we might want it, if the letter isn’t coming, then the letter isn’t coming. The imagi­nary doesn’t become real, even if it’s nearly all we love. 
i’ve marveled at the many non-catholic professors who invest themselves deeply in notre dame’s mis­sion as a catholic institution. and as a zealous, young and naïve catholic, i sometimes wondered how they could so earnestly fight for a mission driven by a faith they did not share. i wondered why they didn’t convert to a religion they found beautiful and inspir­ing. i wondered why an atheist would study theology, but i hadn’t realized that there’s an analogy to the christian who would study “harry potter” or homer. 
walker percy calls the current state of the world “unprecedented,” the state in which the “‘normal’ denizen of the western world…doesn’t know who he is, what he believes, or what he is doing.” Thus, percy sees himself as a “diagnostic” novelist. he describes and diagnoses the state of man through his stories. 
For melinda selmys, creating literature is spiritual­ly productive. she comes to understand the catholic god through her writing: “he loves me in a way that is similar to the way i love my characters: that is to say, he is interested in me. he wants to know how much butter i put on my pancakes, and whether i prefer flannel or cotton sheets… if he wasn’t inter­ested in these things, they wouldn’t exist. nothing exists except because god is paying attention to it. as an author, i’m terribly interested in the same kind of silly details about my characters — and if i wasn’t interested in those silly details, the silly details would never come into being.” 
i wonder if, for selmys, writing a novel as a catholic is primarily about morality. i suspect not, if she writes for love of her characters and all their pecu­liarities. For percy, “art is making, morality is do­ing. art is a virtue of the practical intellect, which is to say making something….[i]f you write a novel with the goal of trying to make somebody do right, you’re writing a tract — which may be an admirable enterprise but it is not literature.” if percy is right, then one is left wondering what to make of the christian “good news”, the gospel that comes to christians in the form of a story. neither percy nor the gospel writers aim for “moral fiction”. The aim is to create, and we are left wondering what is being created. 
and we are left wondering why we keep reading the things we don’t believe to be true in the fullest sense. perhaps it is simply to know something in a world where we barely know ourselves. perhaps it is to es­cape the mundane awfulness of our everyday lives. real-life characters are never as good as the stories we tell about them. 
or perhaps it is driven by a hope that we’ll discover something that will change our lives. i wonder if, at some level, to live is to wait for the stories, the experi­ences, the letters that will open up the world for us, that will take us beyond the dreariness of the every­day and give us something to hope for that’s more than ephemeral fiction. we want to fall in love or fall back in love with life, even when, like lewis, we’re sure that love doesn’t exist. 
Christopher Damian graduated from Notre Dame in 2013 with a B.A. in philosophy. He is currently a Terrence 
J. Murphy Fellow at the University of St. Thomas, where he is pursuing a J.D. and an M.A. in Catholic Studies. He can be reached at cdamian1@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR: IMMIGRATION SERIES 
Operation Streamline: injustice in our justice system 
The sound of chains rang in our ears. more than 50 migrants stood together in shackles, await­ing their mere 25 seconds in front of a judge who would sentence them to up to 180 days in prison followed by deportation through a process known as operation streamline. 
our class witnessed these court proceedings during which groups of five were called up to the podium. during that time they answered three “yes” or “no” questions asking if they knew what they were guilty of and then a final question ask­ing how they plead. it was a factory line with the judge asking the questions and the answers com­ing in one after the next; “sí, sí, no, culpable.” The same thing over and over again. it was all the men and women in the courtroom said to the judge before their sentencing. 
These rapid, mass trials make it impossible for migrants to receive appropriate legal treatment. a mere two percent of operation streamline defen­dants report being informed they could denounce abuses they had been subject to, and only one percent stated the lawyer checked for legal migra­tion options due to family connections. while streamline certainly doesn’t violate the right to a “speedy” trial, most would argue that these rapid, mass trials do not fulfill the due process guaranteed to all people (not just citizens) by our constitution. 
beyond asking whether or not streamline tri­als are fair, we should ask if they are working. The primary goals of operation streamline are to deter unauthorized migration through criminalization and to keep the country safer by locking up potentially dangerous criminals. it has failed in both of these regards. court records show streamline has not led to more prosecu­tion of drug traffickers or violent criminals, and most immigrants deported through streamline will attempt to cross again. rather than allowing migrants to provide needed labor, taxpayers were charged $1.96 billion to detain them in 2013, an exorbitant price tag to fund an ineffective, im­moral and unconstitutional program. 
The injustices do not stop with this process it­self. after being prosecuted, the migrants need to go somewhere. because the state prisons have not been able to hold the newly created influx of criminalized migrants, private prisons can feast on these vulnerable people as well as taxpayers, lobbying for and receiving publicly funded con­tracts worth millions of dollars. 
These prisons then proceed to take any money migrants have on their person and act as their banker, keeping this money and wages they earn working prison jobs for less than a dollar per hour. at the end of their stay at the prisons, mi­grants are given their money back in checks only cashable in the u.s., making it impossible for them to access. This process serves as a legal veil for prisons to essentially steal people’s money. Though $100 may seem trivial, to someone who can barely survive, it’s everything. This might seem like a small detail, but one person who is working to return money by cashing checks has returned $100,000 over one year in one town. 
imagine all those who have slipped through the cracks. 
pope Frances said in 2014, “migrants and refu­gees should not be pawns on the chessboard of humanity. They are children, women and men who leave or are forced to leave their homes for various reasons, who share a legitimate desire for knowing and having, but above all for being more.” at the very least, migrants deserve to be treated humanely. regardless of your political views on immigration, streamline and related migrant detention policies are not only ineffec­tive but clearly violate basic rights guaranteed by our constitution. many people who defend u.s. border policy rely on the “illegality” of migrants’ actions for justification. but are these policies actually unjust? like martin luther king Jr. said, don’t we have a moral obligation to challenge un­just laws to make our world a better place? 
Matt Alexander 
sophomore alumni hall 
Steven Jessen-Howard 
sophomore alumni hall 
Drew Martin 
junior knott hall 
Feb. 17 



LUCY DU | The Observer 


By JIMMY KEMPER 
scene writer 

you can’t stump the Trump. The master of the universe has taken over the media, the republican party and now, the long-lost genre of television movies. 
“donald Trump’s The art of the deal: The movie” gives us a new spin on the Trump character. at center screen is a Trump who directs, produces, co-produces, casts and stars in Funny or die’s faux made-for-Tv film. Johnny depp’s Trump is a faithful recreation of the genuine nar­cissist we have come to know and hate deeply through his sexist tweets, racist rallies and general bullying of Jeb bush. depp seamlessly slips into the role of the real estate tycoon, rocking his ridiculously great blonde hair, cheap suits, thick new york accent and a few extra pounds in one of the most convincing parodies of Trump this elec­tion cycle. depp does a great job convincing us this is a man who truly believes he can make america great again. 
The new film avoids the generic, softball image of Trump featured in the likes of saturday night live by tak­ing us to the beginnings of Trump’s mega-celebrity and megalomania back in the ’80s. back then, Trump was just a world-topping real estate mogul, not the man most like­ly to win the republican nomination. after a brief intro­duction by ron howard, who explains this “lost film” was 
By MIKO MALABUTE 
senior scene writer 

no pun intended — it’s an absolute crime the “american crime story: The people vs. o.J. simpson” television series has not garnered the same amount of popularity and attention as its predecessors in the crime drama genre. The latest season in the “american crime story” television series covers what has been widely known as one of the most infamous, wildly bizarre and unbelievable crimes this side of modern history, taking on the case of disgraced american icon and accused murderer o.J. simpson. 
This season of “american crime story” is the lat­est in the popular trend of crime drama pop culture 
— à la “serial” and “making a murderer” — that has proven to be wildly popular among people across the country. in fact, the genre of crime drama itself has been incredibly successful and has seemingly expe­rienced a notable uptick in popularity in the past few years. as laid out by the los angeles Times, the allure of a mystery, the potential for a resolution to the case and a look into the mind of a criminal offer an irre­sistible pull for the average viewer at home. 
originally supposed to air on network television but got pulled because of a particularly dreadful monday night nFl game, we encounter depp’s Trump in his Trump Tower office, where he is explaining to a young boy in a backwards baseball cap “the art of the deal.” 
Though only based on Trump’s bestseller “The art of the deal” in name, the Funny-or-die movie takes full advantage of the book’s mixed memoir and advice struc­ture. over the course of the movie, Trump attempts to buy out merv griffin’s (patton oswalt) Taj mahal casino in atlantic city, new Jersey, and relates advice to the boy, who gets switched out several times throughout the film whenever Trump disapproves of the character’s ethnicity. 
Throughout this Taj mahal deal, Trump commits a number of atrocities that are only vaguely more ridicu­lous than his modern television antics. Frivolous law­suits, inexhaustible misogyny and criticism of dead vietnam veterans (Trump prefers soldiers who don’t die) blur the line between satire and reality even further. 
The atmosphere of the film is enhanced by an obnox­ious, screechy guitar accompaniment for every single “Trump card element of the deal” as well as cheap, fuzzy vhs visuals and abhorrent, in-your-face typography. we also get a range of nostalgic ’80s cameos including the puppet alF, who turns up as Trump’s best man at his 
“serial,” the podcast that chronicled the disap­pearance and murder of hae min lee allegedly by her then-boyfriend adnan syed, built upon these qualities of a crime drama that the la Times listed but also had the interesting pull of requiring its au­dience to listen and use their imagination for the story. “making a murderer” — the netflix series that covered steven avery, a dna exoneree who, while in the midst of exposing corruption in local law enforce­ment, found himself the prime suspect in a grisly new crime — built upon the success of “serial,” but also, as a television series, offered what a podcast couldn’t: pictures to go along with the narration and story. 
“The people vs. o.J. simpson” manages to one-up “making a murderer,” giving us the compelling story, the emotionally moving visuals as well as one of the most well known criminal stories involv­ing one of the most (at the time) beloved figures in american pop culture. starring cuba gooding Jr. as 
o.J. simpson, the drama shrouds viewers like myself in enough mystery and doubt to really follow along with the case. Truth be told, i don’t know much about the o.J. simpson murder trial — as a matter of fact, i know nothing about the circumstances surrounding wedding, and christopher lloyd as doc from “back to the Future,” who goes back in time to stop Trump from blowing out his birthday candles. 
while all of these elements are great, “The art of the deal” is really held together by depp’s incredible per­formance. Thanks to the makeup, wig and fat suit, he’s totally unrecognizable in this role, but it’s his manner­isms and articulations that really seal the deal. Trump is a tough character to get down because of his bombas­tic brassiness. however, this ultimately works in depp’s favor, as depp has been playing weird, larger-than-life characters for years. now, for the first time since “pirates of the caribbean,” he finally has a production that can keep up with his eccentricity. 
“The art of the deal” has a unique place in the com­mentary on this election season. The 50-minute-long movie has great production value and an edgier aesthet­ic than the average satire. Furthermore, it was perfectly timed to come out right after Trump’s big win in new hampshire. because of that, it’s very “in the moment” and will probably quickly be forgotten as the political competition and Trump’s rhetoric escalate. For now, though, it stands as far above the competition as donald stands above Jeb. 
Contact Jimmy Kemper at jkemper2@nd.edu 
the case other than vaguely knowing that simpson may have done it and also that he eventually came out with a book, “if i did it,” in which he talks about how he would have carried out the murder, assuming he actually was guilty of the crime. as a millennial, this series is optimal for someone like myself who has barely enough context to the case to understand the gravity of the situation, but not enough to already spoil the series for myself. 
The series itself is well produced, from the acting to the storyline. aside from cuba gooding Jr. as o.J. simpson, the rest of the star-studded cast includes david schwimmer as robert kardashian, courtney 
b. vance as Johnnie cochran, John Travolta as robert shapiro and, most notably, sarah paulson, who ex­pertly plays marcia clark. The attention to detail in the series has been nothing short of impeccable; ac­cording to an interview with carl douglas on espnla 710 am’s “max and marcellus” radio show, everything from the positioning of the horribly disfigured bodies to marcia clark’s chain-smoking tendencies is impec­cably recreated in the 2016 retelling of the 1995 crime. 
Contact Miko Malabute at mmalabut@nd.edu 

LUCY DU | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 

FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: you will have the discipline to get through any tough challenges. The growth you experience this year will help you jump ahead and pay handsomely for any stress or anxiety you face along the way. delve in wholeheartedly and make changes that will lead to memorable gains. Take control of your life and positive things will transpire. your numbers are 4, 15, 22, 24, 35, 42, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): change can be good if you think things through instead of jumping from one place to another without a plan. you will be granted favors and be given options if you ask. romance and personal improvements should be a priority. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): lighten up, collaborate and compromise. how you deal with people will be the difference between getting what you want and being denied. aim to finish what you start and try to do so congenially. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): express your feelings and thoughts about self-improvement, philosophy or a new direction you want to pursue. you will get enough feedback to make a suitable choice. beware of anyone who is trying to convince you to be overly extravagant. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): consider a challenge to be a learning experience and face it head-on. you can gain ground if you are open-minded and willing to take action in support of your goals and beliefs. make positive changes to an important relationship. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): start conversations that will help a partnership grow. making positive suggestions and giving others the chance to participate will bring you closer together and help you achieve a bright future. romance will change your life for the better. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): plan for the future. accept any changes that come your way, but don’t invite risk into your life. protect your assets and avoid joint ventures involving money or legal matters. Take on a physical challenge that will help ease your stress. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): you’ll charm and entice those you come in contact with today. don’t be afraid to use your intelligence and persuasiveness to bring about the changes you would like to see happen. if you want something, ask for it. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): stick close to home and do the things that allow you to use your skills in a creative way. don’t let what others say get to you or interfere with your plans. avoid disputes and do your best to improve your environment. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): your unpredictable nature will cost you. be careful or someone will misinterpret what you are trying to say. it’s important to stick to projects that promise to bring about positive change. someone from your past will want to reunite. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): look over contracts and make changes to ensure you get what you want. Taking a strong position when negotiating will work in your favor. don’t let what someone else does affect a decision you have to make. Take care of business your own way. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): children will brighten your day. do something that gives you the incentive to look and be your best. you’ll attract attention and good fortune if you are true to yourself and the ones you love. make your surroundings more convenient and comfortable. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you’ll have trouble figuring things out. don’t fool yourself into thinking that everyone is being honest, loyal or looking out for your best interests. do your own research before you sign up for something that requires time or money. 

Birthday Baby: you are inspiring, pioneering and strong-willed. you are a fearless trendsetter. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 

city state Zip 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

NHL succeeds at All-Star game 
Brett O’Connell 
sports writer 
i’ve written before about the nhl’s recent renais­sance. Ticket sales and Tv ratings are generally im­proving, teams and players are providing an entertain­ing product, and an impend­ing apparel deal with adidas will bring in additional rev­enue for the league. still, it is difficult to suggest other american sports leagues need look to the nhl for inspiration, as they are all performing rather admira­bly in their own right — in most areas. 
This past weekend, the nba hosted its annual all-star game. The game and its surrounding festivities were met with reviews rang­ing from mixed to outright negative in nature, and the final score proved to be a gaudy 196-173 “victory” for the western conference. The unasked question, though, sits below the surface of the weekend’s events: Just who is this weekend for? and, more importantly, who is supposed to care about it? 
The logical answer would be that the all-star week­end is for the fans. but i have trouble accepting that; what we are ultimately af­forded as consumers of the nba all-star weekend is a lukewarm series of affairs in which stars go through the motions in order to honor their commitments to the league and to justify their selection to the event. 
This isn’t the players’ faults. nobody is expect­ing lebron James to sud­denly play defense during an all-star game that doesn’t encourage that sort of be­havior. never mind it be­ing a waste of time, it is too much of a risk for a player who has far more important things to worry about than whether he wins this scoring exhibition. no, much like the increasingly infamous loitering and half-hearted defending that have be­come hallmarks of the nFl’s pro bowl, the problems in this format of the all-star game are all generated by the nba’s own plans and policies. 
meanwhile, the nhl has shifted to a number of ex­perimental all-star formats over the past few years and to impressive critical and financial receptions. First came the removal of the conference vs. conference system that seems to be the standard for any sport’s all-star game. instead, the league moved to a fan vote which led to a player-run fantasy draft. This year, the nhl did away with the traditional single all-star tilt in favor of a series of fast-paced, three-on-three games in a tournament fash­ion, with each team being led by hockey players from a specific division. The week­end’s festivities included insights into the players’ personalities — from brent burns’ wookie impression to 
p.k. subban’s impersonation of elder skatesman Jaromir Jagr, the nhl’s most engag­ing personas were on full display this year. it engaged fans with views of their fa­vorite players they never got to see and excited them with weird and fun twists on the classic game. and the fans cared enough about it to actually attend the all-star weekend. 
put simply, the nhl knocked its all-star weekend out of the park with these innovations (and that’s not even mentioning the meteoric rise of enforcer and american hero John scott). it catered to a packed house of rabid nhl fans, and it engaged them with in­teresting and appealing new twists on what has become a stale and uninteresting all-star formula. 
if the nba and other leagues want to create an all-star format worth watch­ing — and one that will en­gage the players as well as the fans — then they would do well to follow the nhl’s example. 
Contact Brett O’Connell at boconne1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND SOFTBALL 

irish prepare for california 
Observer Staff Report 

after starting their sea­son with a 3-2 performance at the kajikawa classic, the irish will be back in action this weekend in cathedral city, california, for the mary nutter collegiate classic. 
notre dame will play five games in three days against nationally ranked competi­tion and on unique fields. The classic will be held at the big league dreams sports complex, which features fields that are scaled-down replicas of famous major league baseball ballparks 
including  wrigley  Field,  
Fenway park  and  yankee  
stadium.  

The irish begin their slate Friday against utah valley at wrigley Field at 4 p.m. before finishing the day with a clash against no. 11 washington at 
8:30 p.m. at yankee stadium. 
on saturday, notre dame begins its day at 1 p.m. with a matchup against cal poly at Fenway park before playing no. 8 ucla on wrigley Field at 6 p.m. 
Finally, the irish will be back at Fenway to take on george washington on sunday at 11:30 a.m. to end their weekend. 
at cathedral city, notre dame will look to continue the offensive momentum it 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

notre dame kicks off spring schedule in arizona 
By MAUREEN SCHWENIGER 
sports writer 

no. 22 notre dame will step up to the tee for its first tournament since october when it travels to peoria, arizona, for the westbrook spring invitational this weekend. 
despite the long hiatus, irish head coach susan holt said she feels confident in her team’s preparation. 
“so far, i think we’re in a good place,” holt said. “This weekend, we took a practice trip down to Florida, and we were able to practice for a few hours each day and play 18 holes on saturday and sunday. i was pleased with where they’re at with their games right now. i think they’re ready to go and get back in there, play some tournament golf.” 
The two-day event be­gins sunday morning with a shotgun start. The 15­team field will be split into threesomes for the first 36 holes, featuring golfers from the college of charleston, illinois, indiana, iowa, kansas state, nebraska, ohio state, oregon, oregon state, no. 16 san diego state, smu, unlv, washington state and host wisconsin. pairings for the last 18 holes will be determined by score monday. 
with prior experience at the par-72 vistas course, holt said she does not have any particular concerns re­garding her team’s play. 
“we played in this tour­nament last year and re­ally liked the golf course,” holt said. “That’s the main reason why i chose to come back. i just think it’s a good golf course to get our season started with. it’s a manage­able golf course; it’s a score-able golf course.” 
The irish tied for third of 15 teams at last year’s in­vitational, finishing with a 4-over-par 868. 
This year’s squad of eight golfers features three fresh­men and five returning up­perclassmen. The team has placed no lower than sev­enth in tournament play this year. senior and team captain Talia campbell, second in program history with a 74.46 career stroke average, will lead the team this weekend. but holt high­lighted the varied skill set of her team and said she could not pick out just one player whom she expects to do par­ticularly well. 
“and that’s a good thing for us,” holt said. “we have a lot of depth on our team. That’s the strength of our team, is that we’re not relying on one or two people to have a good round every time out. we have a really good balance there. From what i see this week, i think we’ll be able to compete and hopefully be able to continue the success we had in the fall.” 
The irish look to ease into their spring season when the invitational begins sunday at 8:30 a.m. 
Contact Maureen Schweniger at mschweni@nd.edu 


built in the last two games, in which it scored 17 combined runs. senior first baseman micaela arizmendi leads the team with nine rbis, while junior outfielder karley wester leads the team with 10 hits in 20 at-bats. 
irish associate coach kris ganeff said many younger players had standout per­formances at the kajikawa classic, and the team will look to them again this weekend. 
“The freshman class i thought did a phenomenal job,” ganeff said. “maddie mccracken got in there, played a lot of games at catch­er for us, and offensively, she showed up. she got some cru­cial hits in key moments. 
“another one was sopho­more [outfielder] bailey bigler, who did a really nice job both defensively and of­fensively. … [Freshman] caitlyn brooks is another one. she’s a pitcher, and she hits, which doesn’t happen very often.” 
notre dame will look to the trio of junior rachel nasland, senior allie rhodes and brooks on the mound. rhodes carried the load for the irish in the kajikawa classic last weekend, pitch­ing 19.1 innings and giv­ing up nine earned runs. brooks pitched 7 1/3 innings with four earned runs and nasland pitched 6 1/3 in­nings but gave up only one earned run. 
The irish begin the mary nutter collegiate classic in cathedral city, california, on Friday at 4 p.m. 


Bouts 
conTinued From page 16 
the remainder of the round. The third round started in a similar fashion as the second, with dethlefs opening with an aggressive attack. hunter attempted to maintain his distance and use his reach ad­vantage, but dethlefs kept the fight in close quarters and was able to land several good shots before the final bell sounded. dethlefs was awarded the vic­tory by unanimous decision. 
Michael “Munchkin” Kappaz def. Cam MacGregor 
The first round between the two fighters from alumni began with each competitor launching a barrage of hits. kappaz, a junior, quickly took the advantage by landing sev­eral big blows while evading the senior macgregor’s punch­es. macgregor eventually man­aged to land some hits of his own, however, just as the bell sounded to end the round. The second round started with both fighters coming out swinging, but macgregor was able to take control, land several strong blows and force kappaz on his back foot for most of the round. The final round was a dogfight as both men went for the win. macgregor looked to take con­trol once again, but this time, kappaz was able to counter and land several body shots on macgregor. kappaz main­tained control for the remain­der of the round, and he was awarded the win by unanimous decision. 
144 pounds 
Alex “El Cadejo” Alcantara def. Thomas Manno 
The fight between manno, a sophomore in Zahm, and alcantara, a junior in alumni, began with both men rushing toward the center and trad­ing punches. neither fighter was able to block the other’s blows, but alcantara’s strength gave him a slight lead head­ing into the second round. in the second, with loud chants in the background supporting him, manno came out with intensity, but alcantara land­ed a strong combination to the head and drew a standing count from the referee. after the short break, alcantara took control with another combi­nation of punches and forced a second standing count. in the third round, manno was aggressive but unable to over­come alcantara’s relentless at­tack. in the end, alcantara was awarded the win by unani­mous decision. 
Steven Ramos def. Chase “Birdlike Frame” Hundman 
hundman, an off-campus graduate student, and ramos, a sophomore in Zahm, traded punches throughout the first round in a tightly-contested opening stanza. eventually, however, ramos was able to take control of the fight, us­ing his quickness and supe­rior punching speed to exhaust hundman late in the fight. although the fight remained tight throughout, ramos’ abil­ity to wear hundman down earned him the victory by a 
split decision.  
Matthew  “Mr.  January”  
Yoder  def.  Jeffrey  
“J-Weezy” Wang  

yoder, a sophomore from alumni, quickly seized the ad­vantage in the first round and dropped wang, a senior repre­senting knott, early after catch­ing him off balance. wang tried to get back into it, but yoder ended the round with another big hit, earning him a clear advantage. wang started the second round looking to come back strong, but yoder contin­ued to land big hits on his op­ponent. wang was on his back foot for the entire round, and although he landed several hits, the round ended with yoder still in the lead. The third round started with both fighters trad­ing punches, but as time went on, yoder continued to land blow after blow. wang stuck in it, but when the bell sounded, yoder was declared winner by a unanimous decision. 
Danny “Nacho Tigre” Espinoza def. Conor “Baby Face” Ward 
espinoza, a senior in st. edward’s, went punch for punch with ward, a sophomore in knott, in the early stages of the fight. however, espinoza used his experience in the ring to eventually overpower the younger ward, who faded as the fight went on. espinoza ul­timately outlasted ward and earned the victory via unani­mous decision. 
152 pounds 
Kieran Carroll def. Shawn Lee 
Austin  “The Sleeper”  
Cartier  def.  Liam  
“Trooper” Chan  

alumni senior chan gained early control of the fight against dillon junior cartier by us­ing his advantage in reach, but cartier managed to land more punches on his lengthy oppo­nent in the second and third rounds. although chan looked strong throughout the fight, cartier pulled through in the end with quickness and agility to win the bout and advance to the semifinals by unanimous decision. 
Timothy McDermott def. Patrick Yerkes 
Alexander “LaForte 3” Jones def. Philip “Gunz” Park 
although Jones, an off-cam­pus graduate student, had an advantage in fighting experi­ence, morrissey freshman park initially held his ground, land­ing several punches in the early stages of the match. however, park faded towards the end, and Jones took advantage by overpowering the younger fighter. Jones won the match by a unanimous decision to move on to the final four. 
157 pounds 
Sean Himel def. Michael Feijoo 
Chip Blood def. Matt “Yeoman” Schaefer 
blood, a junior from sorin, used his body control to over­power schaefer, an off-campus senior, early in the fight, tiring his opponent out and caus­ing schaefer to fade in the lat­ter stages of the match. in the second round especially, blood maneuvered schaefer around the ring while landing multiple body blows. although schaefer landed several successful com­binations over the course of the fight, blood was able to emerge victorious, defeating his opponent by unanimous decision. 
Patrick Lawler def. Ryan Dunn 
Michael “Greasy” Grasso def. Dean “The Undertaker” Swan 
in the first round, grasso, a senior from stanford, came out strong with several hard punches to the head of his op­ponent, swan, a sophomore from dillon. in the second round, grasso continued his barrage, repeatedly pounding his punches into the head of his opponent, causing a stoppage in the match. swan was able to land a few punches during the second round, but in do­ing so, he put himself in reach of grasso, who was frequently able to counterattack the head and body of swan. early in the third round, grasso came in with a combination of a punch to the head, an uppercut to the jaw and another punch to the head of swan that forced the referee to call a stop to the con­test in favor of grasso. 


163 pounds 
Patrick Shea def. Mark Egan 
Rudy Bernard def. Peter “Pound” Loughran 
The ensuing bout pitted loughran, an o’neill fresh­man, against bernard, a sopho­more from Zahm. both boxers fought a tentative first round, with no hard punches thrown as both men appeared content to feel out each other’s styles and conserve their energy for the later rounds. bernard showed strong technique in the second round, using good foot­work to control the center of the ring and land multiple punches to the head of loughran when the freshman ducked away. in the third round, loughran was 


paid adverTisemenT 


able to land a few uppercuts, but bernard again used his technique and length to keep himself out of trouble, landing multiple blows to the head of loughran. in a controlled fight focused on technique, bernard pulled out the victory by split decision. 
Ryan Chestnut def. Alex “The Aztec” Cervantez 
Joe Quinones def. Edwin Onattu 
in the first round, the box­ers came out in a frenzy, initi­ated by Quinones, a sophomore from keough. his opponent, off-campus senior onattu, eventually stumbled after a good punch by Quinones. however, onattu rebounded and was able to land multiple punches to the face when on defense, using his longer arms to ward off Quinones’ attacks. Quinones continued his strat­egy of attacking onattu in the second round, using several ef­fective combination moves and punches to push onattu against the ropes several times. with the match looking like a draw coming into the third round, both sides’ supporters began cheering loudly. Quinones landed more punches than his opponent, who was visibly gassed, and took the competi­tive match by a split decision. 
175 pounds 
Zack “Bedrock” Flint def. John “Big Wet” Wetzel 
The bout got off to a slow start, as both siegfried senior wetzel and st. edward’s senior Flint seemed focused on the defensive aspect of the fight. wetzel threw the first punch, but Flint made the first true of­fensive move, forcing wetzel to lose his balance. The second round began slowly as well, but both fighters went on the offen­sive at the same time, trying to take each other out with strong punches to the head. Flint took control in the third round, how­ever. after evading some early attacks by wetzel, he took his opportunity and went on the offensive. he went for his op­ponent’s head and the torso si­multaneously, as wetzel looked increasingly tired. Flint won by unanimous decision. 
Wes Chamblee def. Tai “Phoon” Verbrugge 
chamblee, an off-campus graduate student, started strong­ly in the first round, as he land­ed several punches to the head of knott freshman verbrugge, causing a brief stoppage. chamblee was able to evade the long arms of verbrugge for the most part, although verbrugge managed to land one combi­nation that included a shot to chamblee’s head. chamblee’s athleticism and balance served him well in the second round, as his ability to dodge punches led to strong counterattacks, in­cluding one sequence in which he battered verbrugge along the ropes with several shots to the body and head. in the third round, chamblee maintained his steady control of the match, eventually knocking verbrugge down with a huge punch right before the bell and securing the victory by unanimous decision. 
Michael “Muscle Hamster” Krecek def. Nicholas “Stud” Walter 
The fight got off to a quick, ac­tion-packed start, with momen­tum shifting repeatedly. both fighters were aggressive, but walter, a siegfried senior, was the first to take advantage, trap­ping krecek, morrissey fresh­man, against the ropes. krecek escaped, trapping walter in re­turn, and kept him up against the ropes as he moved his oppo­nent around the ring, eventually trapping walter in a corner and forcing him to go on the defen­sive. in the second round, walter was able to better defend himself but began to look tired, as he got caught in a corner on multiple 

paid adverTisemenT 


occasions. krecek took imme­diate control in the final round, knocking walter over with his first punch. The referee halted the match with 42 seconds left in the round, giving krecek the win by referee-stopped contest. 
Jack “Not the Guy From Lost” Shepard def. Chris “McCart” DeLillo 
The next bout on ring b saw shepard, a senior from knott, take on delillo, a law student living in keough. shepard’s su­perior height and reach gave him an advantage from the start, as he landed multiple punches from long distance to keep delillo at bay. while the first round belonged to shepard, both fighters traded strong blow for strong blow to the head of their opponent in the second round, with shepard finishing the round with a strong combi­nation. a close match entering the third round, shepard used his length and quick reflexes to overpower delillo, knocking him to the ground with a com­bination of punches to the head. in all, shepard caused two stop­pages during the final round with several punches to the head of delillo, whose shorter stature made him an easy tar­get for the long arms of shepard. shepard was awarded the vic­tory in a unanimous decision by the judges. 
182 pounds 
Brian “Cheese” Willis def. Adam “Bear” Rainey 
The fight got off to a slow start, as both fighters failed to make contact on several punches. however, willis, a Fisher senior, took the more aggressive ap­proach from the beginning. he nearly knocked rainey, a senior from duncan, over with one es­pecially solid punch to the head. willis also kept rainey backing up with multiple feints. willis was able to take more control in the second round and appeared much more solid offensively. 
however, rainey’s defense im­proved, allowing him to duck a significant number of punches. The third round came to a quick end, as willis was able to land a strong blow on rainey. The refer­ee ended the fight in the middle of the round, giving willis the win via referee-stopped contest. 
Patrick Rahill def. Dan “Thunder Road” Andree 
The first round featured rahill, a senior from st. edward’s, landing several shots early on in the fight, before andree, a junior in alumni, was able to match rahill with a couple of strong punches of his own. The second round re­mained close, as andree was aggressive at the start of the round but unable to take con­trol of the fight. The momen­tum shifted in the third round, when rahill knocked andree to the ground. rahill used a strong combination of punches to bring andree down, and the ref stopped the fight to attend to andree’s bleeding. in the end, rahill was awarded the win in a split decision. 
Eamon “Gravy” McOsker def. Derek “Duane the Rock” Meyer 
The two fighters appeared evenly matched from the start. both took an aggressive ap­proach, looking to land solid punches to the other’s head. mcosker, a senior from Fisher, appeared to have the offen­sive upper-hand, but meyer, duncan sophomore, skillfully evaded a number of mcosker’s attacks before landing an im­pactful right hook to the head that almost caused mcosker to lose his balance. in the second round, neither fighter seemed to control the fight, although mcosker’s punches seemed to do more damage than meyer’s. meyer was caught in the cor­ner on multiple occasions but escaped each time by keeping himself low. in the final round, each fighter’s punches seemed to be less effective, with the ref­eree pausing the fight on mul­tiple occasions. mcosker was awarded the victory by unani­mous decision. 
Jack “Hammer” Corrigan def. Rodrigo “El Tigre” Benavides 
during the first round of the fight, both competitors traded punches and landed several shots to their opponent’s head. corrigan, an off-campus junior, started the second round on the offensive, as he landed several square blows against benavides, a sophomore in dillon. in the third round, as both fight­ers were visibly exhausted, corrigan was able to take con­trol of the fight and remain on the offensive, earning him the win by unanimous decision. 
191 pounds 
Jason “Downtown” Ellinwood def. Cam “Crash Cadillac” Nolan 
The first round involved plen­ty of movement around the ring, as each boxer sized his oppo­nent up. halfway through the round, ellinwood, a senior from Fisher, knocked nolan off bal­ance, but the duncan freshman was able to recover. in the sec­ond round, nolan came out ag­gressively, determined to get in some punches, but fell off-bal­ance and was forced to undergo inspection. ellinwood appeared a little more patient throughout the round and then took the ini­tiative in the third round, land­ing a huge blow to the head of nolan that resulted in another stoppage. nolan refused to give in, but ellinwood ultimately seized the win by unanimous decision. 
Courtney “Court of Law” Laidlaw def. Chris “Clown Baby” Euell 
both fighters started out fast in the first round, and both 
see bouTs PAGE 14 



Bouts 
conTinued From page 13 
were solid with neither estab­lishing a clear advantage. in the second round, however, the graduate student laidlaw initially overpowered euell, a sophomore living in knott, with the two in close proximity. euell responded with a combi­nation of punches, though, and cornered laidlaw. The fight remained close into the third round: laidlaw was forced to retreat, but then landed a pow­erful blow to euell’s head. both were visibly exhausted towards the end of the fight, and laidlaw was declared the winner by a split decision. 
Jack “Irish Lion” Ryan def. Chris “El Camino” Vazquez 
ryan, a junior from knott, got off to a strong start by tak­ing an aggressive approach. his long reach allowed him to defend himself well from the law student vazquez’s attacks while simultaneously aiming for vazquez’s head. This also forced vazquez to try to change the pace of the fight by getting as close to ryan as possible and aiming for his torso. in the second round, neither fighter put significant pressure on the other until well into the round, when ryan began to aim for vazquez’s head. in the final round, vazquez came out more aggressively but was still forced to put in significant ef­fort to avoid ryan. ryan sealed his win with an impactful right hook to vazquez’s face and was declared victorious by unani­mous decision. 
Jack Considine def. Diego “El Matador” Rayas 
The bout between off-campus junior considine and keough senior rayas got off to a quick start. in the first round, rayas kept considine on the ropes, be­fore considine was able to turn him around and answer back with a counterpunch. rayas nearly lost his balance early in the second round as considine began to establish himself, but rayas refused to give in and responded with repeated jabs to considine’s chest. The third round began with considine forcing a stoppage, as rayas needed inspection. considine provided a constant, steady stream of hits forcing a second 
stoppage later in the round and eventually was declared victo­rious by unanimous decision. 
207 pounds  
Pat Gordon “Minnesota Richelsen  def. Me Ryan nace”  

gordon, a keough sopho­more, got off to an aggressive and impactful start with a strong combination of punch­es to the head and the torso of richelsen, a morrissey fresh­man. while richelsen escaped, he was quickly caught in the corner again. gordon laid down another strong series of punches to force richelsen off balance, although richelsen was able to catch gordon in a headlock. richelsen came back with more spirit in the sec­ond round, skillfully evading gordon and laying down some solid punches at the same time. however, gordon took some control by attacking richelsen’s head hard and knocking away most of richelsen’s jabs. The final round appeared more evenly matched. neither fighter seemed particularly tired, and both of their hits remained fair­ly strong and impactful. it was gordon, though, who won by unanimous decision. 
Joseph Stevens def. Patrick O’Shea 
Montana “The Louisianimal” Giordano def. Matt “Mama’s Boy” Freda 
giordano, a morrissey fresh­man, came out of the gate strong with a clear game plan. he at­tacked Freda with strong, quick punches to the head and the body. by mixing up his points of attack, he forced Freda, a se­nior in alumni, to remain alert and constantly defensive. in the second round, giordano continued to attack. he was able to force Freda into a corner and prevent him from return­ing any punches. Freda proved unable to protect himself and lost his balance, nearly falling. in the final round, giordano took complete control of the fight with his strong punches to his opponent’s head, nearly toppling Freda on multiple oc­casions. Freda was forced to keep as much space as possible between the two as a means of defense, but it was not enough, as giordano won by unanimous decision. 
Christopher “Mantequilla” Quiroz def. Conner “Next Round’s on Me” Futa 
Quiroz, a san diego native and off-campus senior, took charge in the first round, keep­ing Futa, a south bend native and duncan freshman, on the defensive for the majority of the period. however, Futa finished strong with a few punches. in the second round, Futa came out fast, pushing Quiroz into the ropes. Quiroz was able to rebound and closed the round with a few strong combina­tions. he did not let up in the third round, connecting on multiple strong body blows. both fighters seemed tired and slowed towards the end of the fight, but Quiroz did enough to be named winner by unani­mous decision. 
Contact Joe Everett at  jeveret4@nd.edu, Elizabeth Greason at egreason@nd.edu, Tobias Hoonhout at  thoonhou@nd.edu, Dominic Iannelli at  riannell@nd.edu and Molly Murphy at  mmurph40@nd.edu 
W Lacrosse 
conTinued From page 16 
team. of their 73 total shots at­tempted, 55 of them found their mark and 37 managed to find the back of the net. 
irish head coach christine halfpenny acknowledged boston college’s impressive percentages, though she expressed confidence in her defense’s ability to prepare to oppose the eagle’s talented of­fensive attack. 
“right now we’re practicing ev­ery day against one of the best of­fenses in the country,” halfpenny said. “day in and day out, we’re working against shooters like [se­nior attacker rachel sexton], who is above 50 percent, [junior at­tacker cortney Fortunato], who’s at 50 percent this year, and [junior attacker heidi annaheim], who’s above 50 percent. our shooters prepare us for our opponents.” 
halfpenny said her team’s chal­lenging early schedule is a source of excitement and an opportunity to improve as a team. 
“we’re excited,” halfpenny said. “we’re excited to be better this week; we’re excited to take what we learned from stanford. we have a lot of fine tuning to go and getting that test against stanford, who was outstanding and who is absolutely an ncaa tournament team in my opinion. now we know that we have bc, who made a deep run into the tournament, waiting for us. our focus remains on us; there isn’t too much emotional thought. when the first whistle goes, we’ll go to work.” 
The irish defense will be spear­headed as always by graduate stu­dent defender barbara sullivan. The two-time all-american was named lacrosse magazine’s na­tional player of the week Tuesday following notre dame’s win against stanford. 
halfpenny praised not only sullivan’s efforts on the ball but also her ability to inspire and lead her teammates even when away from the play or during practice. 
“i think the reality is when you use what barbara does,” halfpenny said. “she comes in and plays at such a strong level, but the reality is that she plays each play at a time and everyone wants to play for barbara. 
“Talk about a kid that celebrates her teammates; she celebrates her teammates, she champions every single one from top to bot­tom,” halfpenny said. “she’s such an exciting leader; i would say she absolutely leads with her actions, but more importantly, she leads with her heart. That’s the way you get followers. she’s here to serve her team, and that’s the cardinal rule. if you’re a great leader you serve your team, and that’s what barbara does. people play a little bit harder for barbara.” 
sullivan’s leadership and de­fensive ability will both be in high demand sunday as the irish seek to shut down potent boston college attacks caroline margolis and sam apuzzo, who had four goals apiece in the eagles’ rout of boston university last weekend. 
The irish will attempt to get a head start to the top of the con­ference standings as they host boston college at arlotta stadium this sunday at noon. 

Contact Brett O’Connell at Irish graduate student defender Barbara Sullivan possesses the ball boconne1@nd.edu during Notre Dame’s 10-8 home loss to Louisville on April 19. 
paid adverTisemenT 





Track 
conTinued From page 16 
“The quality at this meet is a very good, high-quality in those events where people are trying to qualify for nationals,” Turner said. “They come here because our track is the largest indoor track on a college campus. The distance medley relay, the [4x400-meter relay], the mile, the 800 and the 400 are real popular events with a lot more entries and in those events, people can run very fast.” 
with many sprinters getting a week to rest, Turner said he is looking for a good showing from his field athletes, especial­ly a pair of men’s high jumpers: sophomore hunter holton and freshman matthew birzer. 

“anytime you can work on your technique is a good thing, where it doesn’t totally wear you out,” Turner said. “our men’s high jumpers, hunter holton, matthew birzer, those guys have been pretty con­sistent so i’m still waiting for breakout meets. These are two guys that have been under the radar most of the season. and these are guys, just looking at the acc depth chart, they can definitely get in there and get some points for us — i believe in fifth to eighth place. if they get higher than fifth, i’m going to be ecstatic, but those guys have been working their tails off.” 
paid adverTisemenT 

Turner also said he has high expectations for junior thrower anthony shivers who started the year well but has since faded. 
“shivers, i keep saying it ev­ery week, because he started off so hot,” Turner said. “he had a little lull there in January, and he had some very tough compe­tition, he’s been facing almost every week all-american guys in the weight throw. he needs to step it up just a notch to make sure we get those points at the acc meet.” 
The alex wilson invitational begins saturday at 10 a.m. at loftus sports center. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
W Bball 
conTinued From page 16 
focused when they take the court at lawrence Joel veterans memorial coliseum, as the matchup has all the makings of the proverbial trap game. The demon deacons have quietly been on a roll, having won four straight games, while the irish have a battle with no. 10 Florida state looming monday. however, the leaders in the locker room have done a great job of keeping everyone focused on the present task, mcgraw said. 
“one thing we’ve always been able to do is focus on the game at hand,” mcgraw said. “ … and that’s our leadership; it’s their job in the locker room to make sure nobody is looking past anyone. and we can’t afford to. i mean, it’s too important right now. everybody knows what’s at stake. we’re undefeated in the confer­ence right now, and we want to stay that way. we’ve got to be ready for every game because we know, in this league, we’ve had some tests and a lot of games this year that we didn’t play our best. … everybody is gonna give us a great game on the road, so we’ve gotta be ready.” 
during their winning streak, the demon deacons have been led by the play of sophomore guard amber campbell, who was named the acc player of the week for this past week. during the demon deacons’ four-game winning streak, campbell has averaged 17.5 points per game, including 27 in the demon deacons’ win over duke. mcgraw said she will be a difficult matchup for the irish, especially if sophomore guard mychal Johnson is unable to play due to a concussion. 
“she’s good because she can shoot it, and she can drive it so she’s tough to defend,” mcgraw said. “and right now it looks like mychal Johnson is not going to be able to play because she had a concussion [during the miami game], so she’s questionable i would say for this game, and we kinda like putting her on some of those guards so that hurts us de­fensively. [campbell’s] gonna be a tough matchup for us.” 
on the offensive side of the ball, the irish had 23 turnovers in sunday’s win. while junior guard lindsay allen’s foul trou­ble played a significant role in the increased sloppiness, defenses have began to key in on sopho­more forward brianna Turner and have made it difficult to get her the ball inside, mcgraw said. 
“The defense is definitely key­ing on her, and they’re devis­ing new ways to try to guard her,” mcgraw said. “like when we have a two-on-one, they’re staying on her, and we’re forc­ing passes i think. we’re looking for her, but we’re turning it over more. and then there are times when i think we could get it to her more.” 
however, the irish have shot under 40 percent from the field in their last three games on the road. as a result, mcgraw said she wants her team to continue to get the ball to Turner inside for higher-percentage shots against the demon deacons. 
“[The lower shooting per­centage] is not a big concern,” mcgraw said. “you always shoot better at home just because you’re used to the rims, but i think that’s why we got to go in­side more because bri’s gonna shoot 60 percent from the floor, so we need to get better shots.” 
notre dame and wake Forest are scheduled to tip off at lawrence Joel veterans memorial coliseum on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 


KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 

Irish guard Lindsay Allen drives the lane during Notre Dame’s 90-69 win over Miami (Fla.) on Sunday at Purcell Pavilion. 


BENGAL BOUTS 

Boxers fight in quarterfinal bouts 
By JOE EVERETT, ELIZABETH GREASON, TOBIAS HOONHOUT, DOMINIC IANNELLI and MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writers 
137 pounds 
Atticus “Finch” Coscia def. James “Don’t Try to” Argue 
coscia, a junior in siegfried, started the first round with a flurry of punches and pro­ceeded to pound his opponent right from the get-go. argue, a junior in sorin, tried to hold on, but he could do little to stop the barrage until the bell brought an end to the round. The sec­ond round started in the same fashion, as coscia controlled the round again and chased argue around the ring. argue tried to get in close and land a few punches of his own, but coscia continually countered with shots to argue’s head and body. at the start of the third round, argue attempted to gain the upper hand, but coscia kept up his steady attack. in the end, the referee called the fight early and awarded coscia the victory by referee-stopped contest. 
Matthew Muliadi def. Jonah “Clown Baby” Poczobutt 
The fight between poczobutt, a sophomore in morrissey, and muliadi, an off-campus senior, was fairly even from the be­ginning, as both boxers were of similar stature and fitness. They traded punches through­out the first two rounds, with neither competitor taking a decisive advantage in the fight. muliadi was able to eventu­ally overpower poczobutt and land several successful combi­nations of punches late in the match, which earned him the win by split decision. 
Chris Dethlefs def. John “Goose” Hunter 
The first round began with both fighters trading punches, but hunter, a sophomore in Fisher, had the longer reach and was able to land more of his shots. not to be undone, dethlefs, a sophomore in sorin, chased his opponent around the ring throughout the remain­der of the round in an attempt to limit hunter’s reach advan­tage. at the start of the second round, dethlefs came out on the attack, but hunter evaded dethlefs’ strikes. both fight­ers traded punches throughout 
see bouTs PAGE 12 


ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
nd to welcome bc 
By BRETT O’CONNELL 
sports writer 
The no. 9-ranked irish are set to begin this season’s conference slate as they host a longtime rival, no. 11 boston college, on sunday. 
The irish (2-0) will usher in this season’s acc competition with their second game of a four-match homestand. it will also mark their first home matchup at arlotta stadium this season, as their match against stanford was played indoors due to the weather. 
Fresh off their 13-9, come-from­behind victory against no. 17 stanford in which the irish scored eight straight goals to close the game, notre dame’s potent of­fensive attack will be matched by a talented boston college forward corps. The eagles have played two games this season, an 18-9 drub­bing of cross-town rival boston university and a 19-6 victory over holy cross. in their two games, the eagles displayed a knack for offensive efficiency, compiling 
a .507 shooting percentage as a 
see w lacrosse PAGE 14 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Turner leads notre dame into conference contest 
By BEN PADANILAM 
sports writer 
no. 2 notre dame looks to se­cure a double-bye in the acc tournament Thursday when it hits the road to battle wake Forest. 
coming off a strong 90-69 win over miami (Fla.) on sunday, the irish (24-1, 12-0 acc) are in a po­sition to secure a top-four seed and double-bye in the confer­ence tournament with a win over the demon deacons (15-11, 6-7). irish head coach muffet mcgraw said securing the double-bye is important for postseason suc­cess but isn’t the team’s focus right now. 
“That’s essential,” mcgraw said. “i don’t think you can win [the acc tournament] without the double-bye, so i think that that’s really important, but we’re not thinking in those terms. we’re just looking at, you know, can we just keep winning?” 

The irish will need to be KATHLEEN DONAHUE | The Observer 
Irish sophomore forward Brianna Turner looks to put up a shot see w bball PAGE 15 during Notre Dame’s 90-69 win over Miami (Fla.) on Sunday. 

TRACK & FIELD 

Irish set for final home meet 
By MAREK MAZUREK  
sports writer 
with only one weekend to go before the acc indoor cham­pionships, notre dame hosts its final home meet of the year, the alex wilson invitational, on saturday at loftus sports center. 
as the end of the indoor sea­son draws near, irish head coach alan Turner said he plans to rest many of the athletes who will compete in multiple events at the acc championships the fol­lowing weekend. 
“The athletes on my team who i know are going to double or tri­ple at the acc meet, a lot of them will be resting, unless they’re at the level where i think, ‘hey, they can run one race and run it very very fast and hopefully that time can get them into the ncaa,’” Turner said. “we’re probably resting a lot more people than we’re competing this weekend.” 
Turner did say, however, he plans to run seniors molly seidel, danielle aragon, margaret bamgbose and sophomore Jessica harris as part of the dis­tance medley relay. 
“we’re going to try, on the women’s side, with our distance medley relay to get them quali­fied [for the ncaa champion­ships],” Turner said. “i think our women’s team is going to be very fast; they’ve been first-team all­americans the last two years. i’m hopeful we can continue that streak.” 
Turner said aragon will be the key member of the relay as she has only recently returned to ac­tion after suffering an ankle in­jury in the fall. 
“her comeback hasn’t been as quick as we would like,” Turner said. “but she has a little bit of time left to get it together. we’re hoping she can because she’s a key person for our team.” 
Qualifying for the ncaa in­door championships will not be easy, however, as Turner said the irish will race against tough competition at the alex wilson invitational. 
see Track PAGE 15 





