tHe Independent neWspaper serVInG notre dame and saInt marY’s 



Wendy Davis addresses students 
Former Texas state senator connects women’s health issues, economic opportunity 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news Writer 
In June 2013, Wendy davis fought for the protection of abor­tion rights in an 11-hour filibuster in the texas state senate. nearly three years later, she continued her advocacy for women’s health with an hour-long talk and discus­sion at notre dame. Hosted by the notre dame college democrats, the event was co-sponsored by Women in politics, progressive student alliance, bridgend and the department of gender studies. 

davis said her own personal ex­periences with women’s health is­sues has colored her views on the issues, especially in regards to her GRACE TOURVILLE | The Observer 
Former Texas senator Wendy Davis stressed the importance of women’s healthcare Tuesday. She noted see daVIs PAGE 4 the importance of government legislation protecting a woman’s right to healthcare facilities. 




crash victims still in hospital 

Observer Staff Report 
two students injured in a car crash saturday night re­main in critical and serious condition, memorial Hospital reported monday evening. 
notre dame junior Jack riedy and saint mary’s junior mary Gring were with scott Gring, a south bend resident and mary’s father, heading 
see crasH PAGE 3 


smc alumna considers women in the workforce 

CAITLYN JORDAN | The Observer 

Saint Mary’s alumna Mary Burke ’85 speaks about women in the  workforce. Burke has over 25 years of experience in banking. 
By ALEX WINEGAR 
news Writer 
saint mary’s alumna mary burke ’85 presented as a key­note speaker on women in the workforce for the college’s 11th annual diverse students’ leadership conference (dslc) on monday. 
according to the student diversity board’s website, burke has had over 25 years of investment banking experi­ence within the food industry. she specializes in financial 
see dslc PAGE 5 



Díaz highlights importance of writing  
By MEGAN VALLEY 
news Writer 
pulitzer prize-winning au­thor Junot díaz spoke monday at the 2016 notre dame literary festival as the featured author speaker. 
díaz said he tries to accom­plish three goals when speak­ing to an audience. 
“one: defense of the arts. two: create the space for conversa­tions about the kind of themes the books themselves engage in. three: modeling the kind of writer that one is,” he said. “You never know if anything actually works. … You just have to have a lot of faith.” 
as an immigrant from the dominican republic, díaz said wanting to become a writer was a “strange thing” to his family. 
“I wouldn’t say they were encouraging,” he said. “I also wouldn’t say they were discour­aging. It was so off-the-map … to present to your parents that you wanted to be an artist. It wasn’t something even to be 
see dÍaZ PAGE 4 


panelists investigate poverty, sustainability 
By JENNA WILSON 
news Writer 
the Keough school of Global affairs held the opening key­note panel of the schools’s first conference “for the planet and the poor” on monday. 
the keynote included re­marks from university president fr. John Jenkins, followed by a panel of four speakers. 
“no issues are more challenging, perhaps, or press­ing than those we will discuss in coming days — care for the earth’s environment, alleviat­ing extreme poverty and achiev­ing sustainable development,” Jenkins said. “In a world where differences in faith often lead to conflict and destruction, this dialogue draws us together as one human family in conversa­tion about our common home. let us make this conference a shinning example about how this dialogue about our world can draw us together in solidar­ity and common commitment.” 
While the conference focuses on the complex problems, it is important to remember that all these problems are solvable, Jenkins said. 
“an adequate response to the challenges before us will demand the very best sci­ence and technological 
see poVertY PAGE 5 


neWs PAGE 3 VIeWpoInt PAGE 7 scene PAGE 9 nd softball PAGE 16 baseball PAGE 16 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, In 46556 024 south dining Hall, notre dame, In 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret Hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                Kayla mullen                       cristina Gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: alex carson Asst. Managing Editor: Zach Klonsinski Asst. Managing Editor: clare Kossler 
News Editor: Katie Galioto Viewpoint Editor: claire radler Sports Editor: marek mazurek 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: nicole caratas Photo Editor: caitlyn Jordan 

Graphics Editor: susan Zhu Multimedia Editor: Wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah Villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

the observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. the observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
the news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of the observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. the free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret  Hynds. 

post office Information the observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to the observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. the observer is published at: 024 south dining Hall notre dame, In 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices postmaster send address corrections to: the observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, In 46556-077 the observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 
If there was a fire and you could only save one thing, what would it be? 


Shelby Cox 

Lauren Richey 
first year 
first year 
regina Hall 
regina Hall 
“my winter coat.” 
“my computer.” 
Christina Herrera 

Tory Millar 
sophomore 
sophomore 
regina Hall 
le mans Hall 
“my nancy reagan biography.” 
“my baby blanket.” 
Tyler Booth 

Emma Vreeke 
junior 
junior 
le mans Hall 
le mans Hall 
“my laptop.” 
“photos of family.” 


Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

nicole caratas marek mazurek Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Jenna Wilson Hunter mcdaniel stephanie snyder 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Fourth Annual Poetry Tax Assistance Easter 1916: The Irish Bengali New Year “Agency, Persons, 
Kathryne robinson austin taliaferro 
Slam Program Rebellion Celebration and Kant” 
Snite Museum Geddes Hall Hesburgh Library Coleman-Morse Center McKenna Hall 5 p.m.-7:30 p.m. 2:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 5:30 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-8 p.m. 8 a.m. 
Corrections 

Competitive poetry Tax returns prepared Guided tour of Special Experience culture Philosophers discuss 
In the april 4 issue of the observer, don bishop 
judged by audience. without appointment. Collections exhibit. and traditional dinner. Kant’s works. 
was misidentified. He is the associate Vice president of undergraduate enrollment. the graphic accompanying the article incorrectly 
Memorial Mass Christ for the Curious Mindful Meditation ND Women’s Tennis Eucharistic Adoration 
reported that 3,665 students were admitted; 3,565 students were admitted. In the same paper, Basilica of the Sacred Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse vs. Clemson Basilica of the Sacred a story incorrectly stated the driver of the car in 
Heart Center Center Eck Tennis Pavillion Heart 
an accident had been released from the hospital saturday night. He is still in the hospital in stable 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 11 p.m. condition. the observer regrets these errors. 
In memory of law Come discuss the Open to faculty, staff The Irish take on the 24-hour Eucharist student Kar Moleah. Resurrection. and students. Tigers. celebration. 


2016 ELECTION OBSERVER: CHRISTINA WOLBRECHT 
Wolbrecht explores role of women in politics 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
Editor’s Note: Throughout the 2016 presidential cam­paign, The Observer will sit down with Notre Dame ex­perts to break down the elec­tion and its importance to students. In this ninth install­ment, Associate News Editor Rachel O’Grady asks the direc­tor of the Rooney Center for the Study of American Democracy, Christina Wolbrecht, about the 
woman for president. until the 1970s, fewer than half of american said they would — there are still voters who say they would not. our expecta­tions for the presidency — as­sertive, bold, strong, warrior 
—
 are at odds with our stereo­types about women. Women have traditionally entered politics later in life than men, 

—
 usually when their children are older— leaving them less time to climb the political career ladder to the very top. 



cW: parties are constantly transforming in response to changed realities, electoral outcomes, and political de­bate. the republican primary race has certainly been un­precedented in many ways and challenges many assump­tions about the ways in which party nominations work in the 
u.s. However, the race is not unprecedented in the sense of revealing important divisions within the party — the same republican convention in 1964. as in all of those cases, I would expect the outcome of the 2016 primary season will be that the republican party will change in important ways, although exactly how remains to be seen and depends in part on whether trump actually secures the nomination. 
some would argue that trump represents a different challenge to the republican party than the historical 
cases I have mentioned, each 
in broad shifts in the econ­omy and society at national and global levels. much of in­equality is driven by stagnant wages in the lower and middle income deciles and staggering income growth for the most wealthy. What candidates can do is propose policies to allevi­ate the hardships and uneven opportunities that inequality causes. such policies might range from changes in the tax code to education policy to direct social welfare benefits. 


role of women in politics in the 
Women have been dramati­of which was rooted in a I would encourage students 

fundamental disagreement to look closely at the sorts of 

about the ideological and very specific policy solutions 
2016 election. 
cally under-represented — or 
not represented at all — in 
roG: clinton has the po­the careers that have pro-policy direction of the party. the candidates are proposing 
tential to be the first female duced presidents in the 20th I agree. trump disrupts the to address those conditions, 
president of the united states. and 21st centuries — generals, republican party in many and to be attentive to debates 
seeing as your area of study vice presidents, senators, and other ways, including his un­about how effective those pol-

focuses on women in politics, governors — meaning that the orthodox approaches to politi­icies would really be. 
I’ll intentionally leave this question open [and] broad for you. What implications does this have on politics as a whole? moreover, why has it taken so long to even conceive of women in the highest office in the land? 
cW: there are many reasons why the u.s. has yet to have a female president. politics has been traditionally viewed as a male endeavor. one of the questions the Gallup orga­nization has asked the lon­gest — since the 1930s — is whether citizens would vote for an “otherwise qualified” cal debate and campaigning, and his expressed willingness to violate a number of demo­cratic norms. these are issues of great importance to our political process and political community. on the question of party divisions, however, as social scientists and journal­ists scramble to understand the sources of trump’s sup­port, it is increasingly clear that his supporters tend to share priorities and a view of the world that distinguishes them from non-trump sup­porters in the republican base. In that sense, this is not so different than many other internal splits parties have faced. 
roG: Income inequality is an increasingly prevalent is­sue. do any candidates pro­vide real solutions, and more importantly, can any of them implement their policies to actually improve the current income disparity? 
cW: Income inequality is significant in the u.s. and has attracted increasing attention during this electoral cycle. I would emphasize that income and wealth inequality have been on the rise throughout the industrialized world; what most distinguishes the u.s. is how little our public policy does to alleviate the effects of that disparity. addressing the causes of income inequality is difficult, as they are rooted 
roG: taking it back to col­lege campuses, particularly here at nd, where the Indiana primary is fast approaching, what is something we, as col­lege students, should be pay­ing particular attention to? 
cW: at notre dame, most students remain registered in their home states, so I hope and expect that many students have already had a chance to participate in their state’s pri­mary via absentee ballot. one downside of a caucus system is it makes it difficult for out­of-state residents to have a say. college students should be paying attention to the issues that they feel will have the biggest impact on our coun­try and world today and in the years to come, be that the en­vironment or trade or income inequality or civil rights or the size of government or insert your passion here. I’d encour­age students to learn as much as they can about the issues they care about and about the arguments each candidate is making on the issues that matter most to you. I don’t have any ad­vice on what students should be paying attention to, but I do very much hope that our students are indeed paying close attention to this election, and will become in­formed and effective participants in our political process. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
eligible pool for possible fe­male presidents is very small compared to the eligible pool of men. all of these factors — and more! — have produced a context in which the nomina­tion of a woman for president has been very long in coming in the u.s. 
roG: turning to look at the Gop, it looks like the party is starting to split amongst trump supporters and the “never trump” set. could we see a real shift in the republican party over the next year, or even few years? What does that look like? 
paId adVertIsement 

could be said of the democrats. parties throughout our his­tory have been characterized by divisive figures and issues which split parties internal­ly; examples include teddy roosevelt’s bull moose break from the republican party in 1912 over progressivism and the dixiecrats split from the democratic party over civil rights in 1948. one can also think of the riots outside the 1968 democratic national convention in chicago or the delegates booing nomi­nee barry Goldwater at the 

Crash 
contInued from paGe 1 
east on a bridge over the st. Joseph river near niles, michigan. scott Gring, the vehicle’s driver, lost control on the icy road and spun across the center line, crash­ing into a westbound car. (editor’s note: Jack riedy is a scene writer for the observer.) 
While emergency respond­ers were attempting to extri­cate riedy and mary Gring from the vehicle, another eastbound vehicle lost con­trol and struck a fire truck protecting the scene, which was pushed into the Gring car with the students still in­side it. 
all three people in the Gring vehicle were taken to memorial Hospital in south bend. as of monday evening, riedy remained in criti­cal condition. mary Gring’s condition was reported as serious and scott Gring’s as stable, according to the hospital. 


tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

SMC hosts salsa dancing 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news Writer 
saint mary’s students danced their way to dis­covering personal identity monday during “the salsa story: embracing dance through dialogue,” an event in the annual diverse students’ leadership conference (dslc). 
associate professor of humanistic studies laura ambrose and assistant professor of music emily mcmanus led the dance lesson and discussion. In addition to teaching the basic salsa step, they also taught variations of salsa — cumbia, side step, meren­gue and tango. 
ambrose said knowing the origins of salsa dance will help students determine what stereotypes exist and what is culturally accurate. 
“It is a representation of pan-latin identity,” she said. “It is danced through­out the americas, and, as of the 21st century, globally.” 
according to ambrose, pan-latin is term that is in­clusive to all people who are of a latino heritage. there 
Díaz 
contInued from paGe 1 
had. 
“It was far harder in those days, in my mind, that in the imminently practical immi­grant world that you would pursue something as im­practical as being a writer. I thought it was going to be difficult for me, but these days, I’ve discovered the young people I work with are under even more pressure to earn out.” 
díaz’s books, including pulitzer prize-winning “the brief Wondrous life of oscar Wao” and national book award finalist “this Is How You lose Her” draw on his experience as a dominican immigrant. 
“for me, it became a mat­ter of life or death if I could find a way to present the complexity of my commu­nity, as an artist, as a writer,” he said. “If only because, by highlighting that complex­ity, I could start to make some sort of sense.” 
according to díaz, peo­ple of color tend to have an “internalized oppression” because of the white-dom­inated society they live in 
— a problem he frequently explores in his writing. He said these negative feel­ings toward the self must be confronted. 
“more important than anything is to begin an in­ternal discussion, to begin to make space in your life is no single global ver­sion of salsa, but there are interpretations based on the community — cuban, puerto rican, dominican, etc., ambrose said. 

“It becomes this innate way of creating communi­ty,” mcmanus said. “It can also be a way of building communities or excluding communities.” 
some styles of salsa are favored more in certain cultures, while other styles are looked down on, which causes a cultural separa­tion, mcmanus said. 
“We continually perform identities,” she said. “It’s where your cultural affilia­tion is.” 
dances have stereotypes that are often different from the real reasons people learn to dance, mcmanus said. 
“‘dancing with the stars’ is representing a generic rit­ual,” she said. “they’re not realizing anything about cultural affiliation.” 
mcmanus said students are often concerned about what to wear when attend­ing dance lessons, rather than on the dance itself. 
for you to raise questions about what are the harm­ful assumptions that this society imposes on people that you yourself have ab­sorbed,” díaz said. “I always tell people a great way to maintain that conversation is to read, to write, to go see art that raises these kind of questions — make it a part of your life and a part of your practice and you’re much more likely to overcome it.” 
díaz said he has mixed feelings about his work in 
“I thought I had to wear heels,” mcmanus said. “but then I found myself falling. anyone can do this — you don’t have to wear anything specific.” 
ambrose emphasized dance is not only about how someone looks while danc­ing, but how the person feels. 
“I started dancing when I was in college,” she said. “It was an avenue to my femi­ninity and my sexuality. my relationship with dance was fundamentally me becom­ing comfortable with my body.” 
senior student diversity board fundraising chair Katherine morley said she had only one previous ex­perience with dancing the salsa, but the workshop gave her a new perspective on the dance. 
“It was interesting to learn about,” morely said. “It was cool to see it as an adult now and think of it as a club setting and not just on ‘dancing with the stars.’” 
Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmary’s.edu 
spite of his success. 
“I’m pretty much a reluc­tant writer,” he said. “I’ve become very successful at something I’m ambiva­lent about. I think the jury is still out if this is going to be my life calling or not. It’s so strange to say. … I think that’s just my nature. I’ve always been kind of a ques­tioner, been uncertain of things.” 
Contact Megan Valley at  mvalley@nd.edu 
Davis 
contInued from paGe 1 
beliefs on abortion. 
“the issue of [abortion] is not to impose our ideas on other people 
— particularly when we may not understand the position a person is in, and the decision she is mak­ing,” she said. 
according to davis, she made the decision to terminate a pregnancy. 
“[I was] post-20 weeks of preg­nancy of a much-wanted preg­nancy that I had waited years to have, and ... our very much-want­ed child was suffering from a fatal fetal brain abnormality,” davis said.  “What we were told was that if our child survived delivery, which she would likely not, that she would live a life of tremendous suffering — if she lived long at all 
— and we made a decision out of love.” 
she said her abortion prompted her 2013 filibuster in the texas senate to block a bill, which banned abortions after 20 weeks and greatly restricted women’s access to abortion clinics. 
“that was my decision to make; it wasn’t a decision that a legisla­ture made for me,” davis said. 
However, abortion only ad­dresses one facet of the issue, davis said. many women still face barriers to climbing the social lad­der, such as the large cost of child­care, she said. 
“for so many women in this country today, whether they are married or single, entering the workforce or entering the aca­demic arena so that they can earn the kind of income that would help make their lives better, can be impeded by the obstacle that is unaffordable child care,” davis said. 
the lack of access to high pay­ing jobs is another barrier women face, according to davis. 
“In spite of the fact that more than 50 percent of college gradu­ates are women, two-thirds of minimum wage workers in this country are women and one-third are raising children on a mini­mum wage,” she said. 
due to these facts, davis said it is vital to have a discussion on these issues. 
“I think it is very important that, as we have these conversa­tions about women regarding equal opportunity in thiscountry, we necessarily put together [the] connection between reproduc­tive autonomy and economic op­portunity in this country,” davis said. 
In order to have these conversa­tions, however, davis emphasized the need to embrace feminism. 
“We’re on a college campus, and, as I look around the room, I see a dramatic number of wom­en,” davis said. “feminism is responsible for that. I think it is important for us to embrace and not hide from that word.” 
davis said her political views on the lack of opportunity women experience in the united states were impacted by experiences her family had during her early life. 
“[my mother] and my grand­mother, like so many women in this country today, strapped on or laced up their shoes, with a single purpose — to lift up their children to have a better future than each of them had,” davis said. “but they lacked an education and an op­portunity to fulfill these dreams for themselves.” 
davis said she enjoyed certain opportunities that allowed her to climb the ranks her mother and grandmother could not.  one of the most important of these, davis said, was her access to a lo­cal planned parenthood clinic. 
“It was my access to the only healthcare that I had for four years, at a planned parenthood clinic near my home,” she said. “that clinic provided me my woman care, my cancer screen­ing and diabetes screening. but it also was a place where I could get counseling.” 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at  lmasinmo@nd.edu 


paId adVertIsement 


and really hadn’tDSLC  proven them-Poverty  effective, accountable and  
selves, they wo uld not have  inclusive institutions at  
contInued from paGe 1 been as well-hea contInued from paGe 1rd as they are  all levels,” appleby said.  
today,” she said. “ Work rewards  “and here, I mention only  
restructuring, recapitaliza­are not going to  come to you innovation available,”  seven of the sixteen sdGs.  
tions, turnarounds, private and for just showing  up. You need Jenkins said. “It must call  and for the sake of brevity,  
public placements of debt and to work hard, a nd find some on experts to develop so- I include the paris climate  
equity capital, as well as provid­meaning in it.”  phisticated and effective  agreements within this cat­ 
ing corporate finance and stra­“ ... It’s the only  way because, policies at the national and  egory of remarkable steps  
tegic advisory services. she is I will tell you, ther e are women I global level. It must influ­ forward.”  
currently a founding partner of have worked with  over the years ence governments and in- the third event is the  
lakeshore food advisors, llc. who will compla in and belly­stitutions around the world,  founding of the Keough  
In her talk, she said there is ache about this  and that,” she yet it also must address the  school, appleby said.  
more to a career than just the said. “Just if you w ork harder on deeper moral, spiritual and  “the first new school or  
money made. this or that — try  a little harder theological questions about  college established at notre  
“sure, we work to make some — you get the w ork done and who we are individually and  dame in nearly a century,  
money … but I think another you’re going to  succeed. and collectively—and who we  the Keough school aspires  
way to look at it is, we are all that goes a long w ay.” want to be together.”  to become a recognized  
looking for meaning, engage­burke believes t he gender gap according to dean of  world leader in globally  
ment, challenge and satisfac­between careers  will vanish the Keough school scott  oriented research, teach­ 
tion,” she said. someday, but onl y if the conver-appleby, the school planned  ing and the education of  
she credits her conceptions sation continues,  she said. this inaugural conference to  professionals dedicated to  
of being female in a male-dom­“We have to  keep talking underscore the convergence  advancing sustainable de­ 
inated field as stemming from about it,” she sai d. “We have to of three current events.  velopment, the alleviation  
advice that a former boss gave make an effort.  When you’re “the first [event] is the  of poverty, good governance  
burke when she was one of the the boss, make  sure you pay promulgation of laudato si:  and the peaceful transfor­ 
only women in her field, she people equally. Y ou have to pay on care for our common  mation of violent conflict,”  
said. it forward. I think  what the u.s. Home, pope frances’s brac­ appleby said. “notre dame  
“my boss pulled me aside and women’s soccer  team did was ing, widely discussed and  has never been shy in en- 
said, ‘mary, there are not really great, but they di dn’t do it when debated encyclical, call­ deavoring to do great things  
many women in the work you they were nobod y. they got re­ing for nothing less than  with the dedicated people  
are doing. so whatever you do, ally good, and th en got to pay ethological and ecological  and plentiful resources that  
people are going to remember,’” it forward for th e rest of us. I convergence of all peoples  God has blessed this place  
burke said. “so I took that to think those con versations are and nations in response to  with.”  
heart, because there really are important.”  a global crisis precipitat­ most rev. marcelo  
few women that I work with. However, burk e said the data ed, the pope argues, by the  sánchez sorondo, chan­ 
most of the clients that hire me regarding differences  between intertwined dilemmas of  cellor of the pontifical  
are men. pay for men and  women needs rapid environmental deg- academy of sciences and  
“I still believe today that if I to be examined c ritically. radation and unjust global  the pontifical academy  
work hard, maybe a little harder “I think we hav e to look at the economic practices, both of  of social sciences in the  
than others, and am a little bet-data, too, becau se I do some-which take their largest toll  Vatican, also spoke at the  
ter than others ... that it will be times think a l ot of women on the poor,” he said.  conference. He highlighted  
remembered,” burke said. are in nursing, e ducation, so-the united nation’s adap­ the importance of science  
according to burke, women cial sciences, wh ile the pay for tion of the sustainable  to the modern world.  
have to work harder to prove those jobs is not n ecessarily the development Goals (sdG)  “It is impossible to un­ 
themselves in order to thrive in same as in investment  banking, is the second event the  derstand the modern world  
a male-dominated work world. which is almost  all guys,” she conference emphasizes,  if we don’t understand sci­ 
“Whatever you want to do, said. “so we have  to be careful appleby said.  ence,” sorondo said.  
hard work is what brings pro-with the data. bu t the men and “[this goal] has an ambi­ this merge of catholic  
motion and satisfaction,” she women who are  nurses, they tious and comprehensive  tradition with modern sci- 
said. “no one deserves to be deserve the sam e pay for the agenda to end poverty in  ence is new and is breeding  
promoted or receive a pay raise same work.”  all its forms, everywhere,  a special culture of philo­ 
without hard work.” other keynote  speakers eliminated hunger, ensure  sophical and moral reflec­ 
the u.s. women’s soccer Kristi pellegrini  ’09 and bree healthy lives, promote in­ tion within the catholic  
team and their recent lawsuit newsome will sp eak tuesday as clusive and sustainable  faith, sorondo said. one  
demanding higher pay exempli­part of the confer ence. economic growth, build  tangible example catholics  
fies this point, burke said.  peaceful and inclusive so- can look to when under­ 
“Had these women com-Contact Alex Win egar at cieties, provide access for  standing this new doctrine  
plained and sued four years ago awine01@saintm ary’s.edu justice to all and build  is the pope’s acceptance of  


paId adVertIsement 
evolution, he said. 
the pope agrees with the scientific community regard­ing climate change and is folding the scientific com­munity’s unique respect and development of natural things into church teachings, according to sorondo. the pope’s motivation lies in the beatitudes and the gospel, he said. 
In his address, Jeffery 
d. sachs, director of the earth Institute at columbia university, said he wanted to focus on the economic impli­cations of these programs. 
“the economy needs to be surrounded by science and scientific realities, by ethics and faith, and then by learn­ing,” sachs said.“because if you let the economy roam free … it can make a terrible mess. the economic part of this may be the smallest part of the story. that is because the result of 250 years of tech­nological progress and eco­nomic development means that the economic parts of our story are probably the most solvable problems.” 
dr. a. atiq rahman, ex­ecutive director of the bangladesh centre for advanced studies, said it is economically feasible to implement programs that would alleviate the suffer­ing of those living in abject poverty. 
“We cannot have a home where one-third of our family is in poverty,” rahman said. “no house would function if one-third of its members were in abject poverty.” 
according to associate dean for policy and practice for the Keough school sara sievers, it is urgent to imple­ment the programs described above. 
“so if we have the opportu­nity because of this historic moment, and we have an ur­gency because, like it or not, this world is going to change, and it’s either going to change in a direction where we try to do something about it and succeed or where we let things run amuck and deal with problems in some sort of dystopian consequence,” she said. “but it is possible to get all these things done.” 
Working together, sachs said, is the only possible way to create solutions to these problems. 
“We have an accurate view of what needs to be done. It gives us a spirt and a direc­tion. so, we have our work cut out for us,” sachs said. “the Keough school will make a profound difference — you are coming at exactly the right moment. the idea of a school of global affairs that takes on the challenges not only analytically but mor­ally and spirituality, to turn to the learning and results is exactly what we need.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at jwilso35@nd.edu 


tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
INSIDE COLUMN 

living up to the hype 

Kathryne Robinson 
photographer 

every other day, there’s something new. of course, that statement isn’t something new. but what about a watery cake blob that someone took the time to create and perfect? this dessert is a combination of mineral water and agar, which is basically a form of gelatin. the dessert is complete­ly clear and dome-shaped — it looks like a water droplet that grew to 25 times its original size. 
first seeing this on buzzfeed, I had scrolled past it. then I saw it on Instagram and, at that point, it occurred to me this might be something worth finding out more about. this dessert seems to be the reverse of broccoli, in that broccoli often is seen as being miniature trees, while this is like a gigantic water droplet. It’s not immediately breakable — you actually have to push and poke into it with a spoon to get this dessert to come apart — but when it does come apart, it doesn’t just shatter and run everywhere, like water might; it stays together like Jell-o does. 
I don’t even know what the formal name of this dessert is — I guess you could call it a water cake, but places that are selling them are calling them “raindrop cakes.” like most things, I always wonder how they originally came to be. It seems as if this dessert was made to offer people an almost zero-calorie, slightly-confusing option as a treat. You can put roasted soy­bean flour on it or brown sugar, but the dessert itself is just a watery, transparent, Jell-o textured treat. 
the best part about this dessert seems to be the reactions of people whom waited in line to get them. scrolling through Instagram reviews of this dessert, people compared them to breast implants or to water, because that’s what it basically is 
— water. this dessert is literally exactly what you think it would be, if not slightly more disappointing. 
With summer quickly approaching, the return of food festivals and farmers markets is also approaching. With the return of delicious food and experimen­tal successes, there are bound to be more than a few over-priced food fads that are, unfortunately, a let down. It makes me wonder if there is a specific formula to having a successful food that might not live up to all of the hype. Is that all food festivals are — a collection of mediocre food that isn’t worth the wait, but is defi­nitely worth the Instagram? probably not, but this “raindrop cake” dessert definitely does not set up an impressive start to the food festival summer line-up. I guess it’s a good thing the summer is more than just the month of april, giving more time for many more delicious food fads to arise. 
Contact Kathryne Robinson at krobinson2@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The necessity of reparations 
Katherine Smart 
real talk 

In 2000, peru’s president was removed from office and an international commission was put together in order to uncover the truth about the violence that had been occurring since 1980 by both terrorist organi­zations and peru’s own government. unfortunately, since strong enough reparations did not follow the report’s release, the peruvian government and people have taken a long time to heal. In order to reestablish a democratic and stable state in areas of mass violence, reparations focused on the legal accountability and response of the state are needed as an essential part of the healing process. because of their ability to deal with the unique situation of various afflicted countries, reparations not only reestablish order within the state, but also restore dignity and moral worth to the victims. as proven by the 1980s peruvian conflict, reparations help low socioeconomic groups, reestablish a trust in government, and assist victim-survivors. therefore, they are a necessary part of a country’s response to violent conflicts. 
the first reason reparations are needed when re­sponding to mass violence is due to their ability to assist low socioeconomic classes. according to stat­istician anup shab, 80 percent of the world lives in countries with widening wage gaps. as these wage gaps increase, the poor become more susceptible to violence within their own communities and exploita­tion by their governments. this is especially true in the case of peru, where 49,107 cases of violence in the poor, mountainous region of ayacucho were brought to light in 2003 by the truth commission. In fact, three out of four people that had died had been poor and illiterate. reparations help impoverished and exploited indi­viduals by providing them with needed material goods, such as monetary compensation, medical/psychologi­cal care and employment. not only do reparations physically assist impoverished victims, but they also work toward ending marginalization in society. for example, providing exploited communities with bet­ter education systems would help increase the literacy rates in an area. this act would not only help raise people out of poverty, but also would help exploited generations pass on their experiences to future genera­tions in order to break the cycle of violence. In peru, education reforms, resulting from the proposed repa­rations of the commission, have succeeded in increas­ing literacy among adult females by 8% since 2003. therefore, reparations can help marginalized sections of the population understand their cycle of mistreat­ment and begin to demand government action. 
another way reparations reestablish trust in gov­ernment is by helping victims reintegrate with their community. often mass violence targets a group of individuals within a society. therefore, by provid­ing government reparations to a marginalized group, the state can reestablish a sense of trust between its people. for example, the truth commission suggested that the government should work toward supplying the poor, mountainous communities with reparations, such as clean water. However, the government’s lack of implementation has caused the contaminated water to be 30% in rural areas, but only 8% in urban areas. this disparity has caused the sense of “otherness” among impoverished people to continue to separate them from the wealthier population. by implementing immediate reparations to marginalized groups, the government can reintegrate people as well as establish a better sense of nationalism. 
the final reason reparations are a necessary re­sponse to mass violence is because they directly assist victim-survivors. by sharing their stories, victims ex­pect their government as well as their fellow citizens to acknowledge their suffering and take action in order to prevent further repression. reparations in response to sexual violence testimonies are especially important. both recognition by the state and access to medical care are essential elements in responding to sexual violence. these types of reparations work to restore the dignity that was brutally taken away from the vic­tims. since women are primarily the victims of sexual assault, it is especially important that reparations are given in order to help women combat already exist­ing biases. for example, although literacy rates have risen among women in peru, femicide is still prevalent in rural populations. according to the peru support Group’s website, 12% of peruvian women have been the victims of sexual assault at least once in their lifetime. therefore, the lack of immediate and adequate repara­tions has caused sexual assault cases to still prevail in society. In order to best help the victims, as well as pre­vent future assaults, reparations are clearly a needed response to violence. 
based on their ability to assist low socioeconomic classes, reestablish trust in government and reinforce the testimonies of victim-survivors, reparations are clearly a necessary and reasonable response to mass violence. since reparations are definitely a needed re­sponse, the next question for world leaders is how to reinforce and sustain reparation programs. since there is no “world government,” the responsibility for imple­menting reparations falls on the state itself. this could be a problem, especially if the state is the perpetrator of human rights violations. because of situations like these, the united nations should take a greater role in supporting and evaluating the reparations suggested by truth commissions. therefore, afflicted states could move toward recovery at a faster pace. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the Naval ROTC program and a current resident of Badin Hall. She is a political science and pre-health major. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
Picking up the phone 
Scott Boyle 
the sincere seeker 

although the show originally premiered in 2007, I have recently been catching up on amc’s televi­sion series, “mad men.” through the workings of the sterling cooper advertising agency, the show offers a glimpse of life in the 1960s. by extension, it invites us to see how life has changed — and what has stayed the same. 
the show is rich thematically, but there’s some­thing much simpler that has caught my eye — old telephone designs. 
although I was familiar with these designs 
— mostly through pictures and turner classic movies — I still felt a novelty each time I saw one used in the show. let me pause to offer a brief refresher. 
a quick examination of the phone reveals a re­ceiver that contains a moveable disk with open­ings for each of the digits. after placing a finger in the opening corresponding to the desired number, the caller then drags a finger to move the disk completely to the right and register the number. the disk then slides back to its original position and the process repeats until the caller has com­pleted the dial. 
this phone was truly a far cry from the mod­ern smartphone. back then, modern “assistants” like apple’s “siri” or microsoft’s “cortana” looked much more like the local telephone operator. and, the best bet at caller Id was to have someone an­swer the phone for you. 
not only that, but people actually answered the telephone. although it took me about two seasons to get used to it, I did eventually come to realize that it is entirely possible to communi­cate well without email, texting and social media. moreover, I am willing to bet that people answered the telephone more then than we do now. 
I stand especially convicted, because I am really bad at picking up the phone. I do it for work, most­ly because it’s a professional responsibility. but a personal phone call? that’s a lot more difficult, especially when I have had a long day. 
for me, a lot happens in the couple seconds that follow an unexpected ring. first, I immediately check the number and caller Id. Who is call­ing? an immediate family member? close friend? someone I haven’t talked to in awhile? In the span of a short amount of time, I’ll calculate the per­ceived urgency and possible duration of the call. In a great majority of instances, I think to myself, “If it’s important, they’ll leave a voicemail.” 
a couple weeks ago, I experienced my first ac­cident. I was very glad to learn my dad doesn’t fol­low this practice. 
although the accident was minor, I was startled. In the span of pulling off the road and exchanging information, my head was whirling as I tried to re­call the proper accident procedures I had learned and seen others follow many times before. 
my mind, however, was coming up blank. I quickly realized that I would benefit from a little guidance and advice. 
so I picked up the phone and called my dad, whom I knew was seasoned in handling these sorts of matters. He picked up on the second ring. 
not only did he stop what he was doing to talk me through the immediate steps at the scene, but he put much of his own work on hold the follow­ing week too as I peppered him with phone calls, questions and doubts about insurance and repairs. 
He patiently and reassuringly guided me through 
each of the subsequent steps that followed. 
not once did I have to leave a voicemail. 
my dad didn’t have to answer that initial phone call. He did not need to spend so much time help­ing me the following week. there was certainly not anything particularly fun or enjoyable about the process. Yet he did. for him, love meant picking up the telephone. 
life since college has been filled with moments like these, moments where I have realized that I still have much to learn. Just when I think I’m too busy, or I have too much going on, there are people like my dad who teach me what it means to see clearly and to love selflessly. 
In all the years I have been in theology and min­istry, I have continually searched for academic in­sights about these very topics. Yet God has shown me clear answers in other areas, sometimes as clear as the other end of a telephone line. 
What truths might be calling to us? are we re­ceiving those truths or choosing to send them to voicemail, putting them off for other days? as meredith Wilson wrote in “the music man:” “pile up enough tomorrows, and you’ll find you are left with nothing but a lot of empty yesterdays.” 
fortunately, we have a God who calls and prom­ises to walk with us into truth. may we have the courage and the confidence to answer our truths (and others) in the present knowing he is with us. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

for the sake of democracy 
When I decided to go to the donald J. trump rally at the university of central florida on march 5, it wasn’t to learn about his policies. If you’ve been keeping up to date with the news, seen a debate on cnn, opened up a paper and saw the front page or have ears and are breathing, you have probably heard in great deal of what trump’s supposed positions are on a number of issues. and, to be frank, as we have seen throughout his campaign so far, he is one to say many things and flip-flop time and time again, intensifying his positions and then seeming more amenable to change when it’s politically expedient. 
I went to the rally that saturday to understand his supporters. I wanted to know why these peo­ple believed he should be the president of this country. I wanted to wade through the hype and thought the only way I could get an honest answer to these questions was to go meet these people face-to-face. 
What I found was a complexity, intricacy and a cross-section of discouragement, discontent, anxiety, fear and fomentation. 
Inside the arena, you hear of a long winter of discontent. they are discouraged — upset they are losing the culture war. disappointed that promises of repealing obamacare, preventing gay marriage and stopping president obama from, in their minds, ruining the nation, are broken time and time again. 
and they are tired. 

tired of their jobs being taken by “Indians,” “asians” and foreigners, as pre-trump speakers regale the crowd with stories of good, hardwork­ing americas having their careers taken from them by outsiders. tired that holding the values of their fathers now constitutes being called big­ots and that they are now classified as prejudiced just because they believe in traditional marriage. to them, this nation is under siege, their very way of life is being threatened by foreign and domes­tic elements, and they are desperate for someone who has the backbone, power and freedom to secure their safety and way of life. someone who is not an insider. someone who will not let them down. 
as time goes on, though, the heated rhetoric has a frenetic effect on the crowd. 
I watch as a local organization supporting trump reveals their own version of the aIds memorial Quilt, called the “stolen lives Quilt,” a quilted banner of those innocent victims who have been killed by illegal immigrants. When a mother takes a moment to regain composure during her speech where she discusses the grue­some murder of her son, the room explodes in uproarious anger, as the arena is slowly engulfed in chants of, “build the wall! build the wall! build the wall!” It is deafening. It leaves you in awe. 
and while he does not say, “segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever!” donald trump’s words hit at the heart of the prejudicial tendencies of his supporters. He’ll call mexicans “rapists,” but he’ll argue that he means illegal aliens. supporters will say that you are twisting his words and that he is talking about the criminals coming to this country illegally. not Hispanics or latinos as a whole race or ethnicity. but the message can be interpreted in a multitude of ways by any number of individuals. 
It is the same “wink and nod” mentality that allows circumstances in which trump can offer to pay the legal fees of his supporters while also saying “don’t touch them!” as supporters push, shove, throw down and outright attack protestors as police rush to escort them out the venue in a timely manner. 
as we witnessed the violence used against protesters, we viscerally gave an audible “oh my God!” and booed to make known our discon­tent to this action. We were pointed out from the ground, briefly “trump’d” and were escorted out of the event. I recorded my point of view as we were kicked out. It was a frightening sight to look back upon. trump signs ripped from our hands by the crowd, expletives hurled our way and middle fingers lunged into our faces. In that moment, I was both thankful that I had that camera in my hands and the police escorting us from what could only be described as the rabidness of ani­mals, ready to pounce. 
If you are supporting donald trump, know that you are explicitly supporting someone who plays towards the base fears that plague our nation, and implicitly, you are supporting the strengthening, resurgence and acceptability of hate back into the public forum. this nation is at a critical point in our history. this election will define who we are and how far we have come since 1964. donald J. trump’s campaign is no longer a joke. Whether he holds his rhetoric as gospel or uses it to en­sure votes, the distinction no longer matters. His words are poison regardless. 
We are better than this. We are better than a demagogue that feeds on our fears and preju­dices. and we must be active and fight back it. not just for the sake of one election, but for the sake of a dozen elections to come. not just for the sake of four years, but for the sake of 40 years more into the future. not just for the sake of decency, but for the sake of democracy as we know it. 
Amir Sadeh 
graduate student 

paId adVertIsement tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 


By MATTHEW MACKE 
scene Writer 

If you put up a sign advertising “free poetry,” most people would just keep on walking. Given poetry’s capacity to be hit-or-miss and its reputation for cheesi­ness, that’s probably a pretty reasonable response. this tuesday night, the fourth annual “Wham! bam! poetry slam!” at the snite museum of art will aim to change that. 
from a pool of 36 volunteers, 10 of notre dame’s finest poetic minds were randomly selected by a computer to face off, in the hopes of being named this year’s “slam champion” by five audience members in attendance to act as judges 
— I was one of those volunteers, but I can safely say that it is better for every­one involved that I wasn’t chosen. 
If you also weren’t selected, or just missed your chance to sign up, you are more than welcome to show the crowd what you’ve got in the open 
By ADRIAN MARK LORE 
scene Writer 

from the start of his career, multi-instrumentalist stephen Wilkinson (“bibio”) has been leading his fans down a melodious rabbit hole directed by per­petual innovation in Wilkinson’s genre of expertise: alternative folk. the explor­atory nature of his discography, however, is not as meandering as it is intentional, and his creative mantra of “folk, and …” is hardly as gimmicky as its premise would have you expect. over a decade’s worth of releases, Wilkinson has welded tradition­al acoustic sounds with oneiric electronic probing, with the strong influence of trip-hop, ambient, funk and indie rock music painting his releases. finally, his creative product — both musical and visual — is a gift of gratitude to the natural world, per­haps the single most important driving force of his art. 
this has been most palpable in the latest arc of his output, since the aural petrichor of the 2013 project “silver Wilkinson” de­scribed the rural england of Wilkinson’s formative years in 2013, supplemented by its companion listen, “the Green ep,” released the following year. but given the sharp stylistic turns that bibio’s dis­cography has thrived on since the artist signed to Warp records in 2009 for the mic — happening before the competi­tion kicks off. there are no limits on your topic, but keep in mind that this event is open to everyone, so you could find yourself performing that poem about sexual awakening in front of a room of families. 
despite that one consideration, open­ness is one of the coolest aspects of slam poetry. the poet isn’t limited by struc­ture or tone. some poems can be heart-wrenching and carefully constructed; others can be freeform and funny. In the end, though, poetry’s inherently emotional nature means that each one packs a punch. If you aren’t convinced, there are tons of slam poetry videos on Youtube so that you can sample a few and make sure it’s for you. the snite Youtube account also has some videos from past poetry slams, so you can see just how good this competition is going to be. 
“people should come because they’ve never seen anything like it! It has always 
game-changing “ambivalence avenue” 
— Wilkinson’s magnum opus that came, mind you, only months after the more creatively conservative “Vignetting the compost” – I defend my expectation that on his latest release,“a mineral love,” bibio would explore yet new thematic ground. 
unfortunately, I was mistaken. 
admittedly, on the whole “a mineral love” is not a disappointment. as al­ways, Wilkinson’s instrumental prowess carries the album effortlessly through a series of wholly unobjectionable tracks. the album kicks off on the right foot with the amphibian bokeh of opener “petals” and the woozy atmosphere of the title track, the latter exemplary of the best that bibio’s brand of funk-folk arrangements have to offer and a highlight of the entire album. on the back half of the lp, while “Wren tails” represents a flawless return to form, “light up the sky” is perhaps the album’s most pleasant surprise, a finisher that is one of bibio’s most jamming tracks yet. 
While Wilkinson plays it safe through­out the lp overall, there are a few stylistic shifts that are worth noting. for one, the warmth exuded on many of the tracks here — “raxeira” in particular — is a rela­tively atypical yet welcome variation of mood on an otherwise risk-free album; in been an amazing event — fun and to­tally off the fall. You never know what the competitors will say in their per­formance,” program coordinator of the creative writing program coleen Hoover said. 
the format of a poetry slam is pretty simple: no props, no music, no mem­ory aids. Just the performers and the three original poems they’ve prepared. every poet gets to recite a poem in each of the first two rounds. after each per­formance, the five randomly-selected judges will rate the poem on a scale from 1-10. the highest and lowest scores will be discarded, and the middle three will be added together to give each poem its official rating. the five best performers advance to the third round, where they will perform their final poem. the win­ner of this final showdown is this year’s champion (and the recipient of an $100 grand prize). 
the open mic starts at 5 p.m. and the actual competition begins at 5:30 p.m. 
many ways, “a mineral love” is the sum­mer day that follows the cool twilight of “silver Wilkinson.” 
but perhaps most surprising was the presence of collaborating artists on “a mineral love,” an odd move for an art­ist as self-contained as bibio. though I was originally apprehensive, fearing that these artists’ contributions would intrude on bibio’s natural momentum rather than complement it, the results are positive in most cases. “the Way You talk (feautring Gotye)” is brief, but one of the album’s strongest tracks; “Gasoline & mirrors (featuring Wax stag)” is also very compelling, yet simultaneously does not seem to be anything bibio could not have accomplished on his own. 
that said, it is quite jarring to hear a voice other than Wilkinson’s calm tone on “Why so serious? (featuring oliver st. louis).” but perhaps it is the track’s french house sensibilities that are most disorienting, along with the deep house vibes that precede it on “With the thought of us.” of course, this is not the first time that bibio flirts with house mu­sic. on “silver Wilkinson,” the twin tracks “look at orion!” and “business park” are an inspired change in pace for the album that still successfully fleshed out its dreamy mood with their oblique but seamless panache; while here folk this slam is happening thanks to the work of the creative Writing program and spoken Word nd, as well as the snite museum of art, and they are all hoping that the event will fill the arena. that means get there early to ensure that you get a good seat, but don’t forget to invite all of your friends, poetry-lov­ing and otherwise. If you’re driving to campus for the slam, there is free park­ing available in lot b1, located south of notre dame stadium. 
poetry, even a free poetry slam, may not be your first idea of a fun way to kill a few hours (we can’t all be the special kind of nerd who has a poetry playlist on their ipod), but if you’ve never been to an event like this before, you should defi­nitely stop by and check things out. Who knows — you might find out that poetry is more than just an awkward way to ask your high school crush to prom. 
Contact Matthew Macke at          mmacke@nd.edu 
acoustics and house instrumentals are married in “both … and” fashion, on “a mineral love” the relationship is mark­edly more “either … or,” to the great detri­ment of the album’s pace. 
In all, while many of the tracks on “a mineral love” are great when taken by themselves, they do not strongly build towards a product that is greater than the sum of its parts. for this reason, this latest lp is easily the least thematically cohesive album of bibio’s discography in the artist’s Warp records run, and, as a result, probably the least impressive as well. However, it is still impressive, given how high bibio has set the bar for himself 
— now the question remains whether he will ever be able to raise it higher still. 
Contact Adrian Mark Lore at          asanch11@nd.edu 
‘A Mineral Love’ 
Bibio 
Label: Warp Records Tracks: “Petals,” “Raxeira” If you like: Jim O’Rourke 


ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 



CROSSWORD | WIll sHortZ 

JUST ADD WATER | JoHn roddY & erIc carlson SUDOKU | tHe mepHam Group 


FLING BY SPRING | rIleY mccurrIe HOROSCOPE | euGenIa last 

Happy Birthday: the help you offer and the improvements you make this year will lead to greater stability. If you are able to implement what you learn into your everyday life, it will encourage you to reach for higher goals and raise your expectations. face the challenges that come your way with a positive, confident will to win. Your numbers are 7, 15, 21, 26, 32, 45, 48. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): don’t allow anyone to stand in your way. look for ulterior motives and be ready to sidestep any negativity that comes your way. be the initiator and control whatever situation you face. stick to the truth and you’ll come out on top. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t share personal information or gossip about others. emotional matters will lead to complications if you don’t resolve issues swiftly. take advantage of a work-related opportunity. a romantic encounter will offer relief from stress. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): be careful when sharing information or helping others. do something that will benefit you, not someone else. a secretive approach will make your presentation that much more inviting when you are ready to move forward. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): refuse to get sidetracked by someone who is trying to get your attention by doing something impulsive and pushy. using your intelligence and intuition will help you get the results you want. romance is on the rise. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It’s up to you to change your mind or to head in a different direction. follow your heart and do what suits you. social networking and meeting with people who are just as cutting edge and goal-oriented as you will pay off. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): an enticing possibility may stretch your budget, but with careful planning and working closely with others, success can be yours. do what it takes to stand out from the competition. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): don’t waste time on someone who is demanding or pushy. Go about your business and make the alterations to your life or relationships that will enable you to follow through with the plans that will bring you the highest returns. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): opportunity is knocking. attend functions that will allow you to flush out any uncertainties you might have about moving forward with your plans. dealing with children or engaging in romance will ease your stress and give you added incentive. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Initiate personal changes that will improve your living arrangements or give you the added confidence to follow through with your dreams. consider the source of negative information before you take action. someone will try to make you look bad. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): rely on past experiences to help you make a wise choice regarding home, friends or family. look for opportunities that arise due to someone else’s lack of knowledge or experience. someone’s loss will turn in to your gain. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): call up an old friend or attend a reunion or event that will help you reconnect. sharing old dreams will spark new ones. an unusual partnership can turn into a prosperous venture. show off your talents and skills with confi dence. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): protect your heart and your reputation. someone will not be as open with you as you hoped. emotional anger will only make matters worse. strive to reach personal and professional goals and let your success speak for you. 


Birthday Baby: You are far-sighted and persistent. You are helpful, strong-willed and resourceful. 
JUMBLE | daVId HoYt and Jeff KnureK 




The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

to receive the observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
the observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, In 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city 


SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Soccer on the move in China 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports Writer 
In January of 2003, over 350 million viewers tuned in to the most viewed premier league soccer game of all time. 
It did not include manchester united or arsenal, who played out a thrilling title race. It did not include newcastle or chelsea, the third and fourth-placed teams that season either. nor liverpool, who were the most decorated club in england at the time. 
It came between everton and manchester city, who would finish seventh and ninth, respectively, in the standings. both were solidly middling teams at the time. although manchester city has had some success since 2003, including two league titles, they weren’t even playing in the premier league the year before. everton had a history of success in the 1980s, but entered the game with one top-10 appearance in the pre­vious 11 years. the game did not stand out to most soccer fans as an important one. 
so why did so many people tune in? not to see everton’s 17-year old prodigy Wayne rooney, or manchester city’s controversial forward nicolas anelka. they came to watch two solid but unspectacular defensively-minded players: everton’s li tie and city’s sun Jihai. both players, and the majority of the audience watching them, were from china. 
china is unsurprisingly seen as a great untapped market in global soccer. a nation with well over a billion people and a rapidly growing economy is a natural next step for invest­ment in the world’s most valu­able sport. unlike the united states or India, there isn’t a dominant sport or group of sports to dislodge from the hearts of fans. but since 2002, when a World cup appearance was followed by the premier league debuts of li and sun, china has made few waves on the global stage. until this year. 
In february of this year, the winter transfer window, one of only two occasions per year for teams to sign new players, closed for most soc­cer teams in europe. It was largely uneventful, with the largest teams on the continent opting not to strengthen their squads. but a whole host of players left europe to join the chinese super league. Jiangsu suning broke the asian trans­fer record on January 27, with the signing of brazilian midfielder and champions league winner ramires from chelsea. a week later, defending chinese champi­ons Guangzhou evergrande broke it by signing colombian striker Jackson martinez from atletico madrid. two days af­ter that, Jiangsu suning took it back, outbidding liverpool to land brazilian midfielder alex teixeira for over $50 million. 
those three moves were just a small part of a wild trans­fer season in china, as many other international stars left more prestigious european clubs to take high paychecks in the far east. the league spent a total of $379 million on transfer fees for new players, more than english or spanish teams. outside of the trans­fer business, the country has been focusing on soccer in schools, with a target of 50,000 schools with mandatory soc­cer courses in 2025, up from 8,000 currently. 
but attempts to turn an eco­nomic powerhouse into a soc­cer powerhouse aren’t always easy. the u.s. becoming a top-tier men’s soccer power has looked to be around the corner for a long time, yet it’s still far behind the expectations from 20 years ago. signing high profile foreign players, whether it was pele, david beckham or thierry Henry, was a hit-or-miss strategy, and local support doesn’t always build quickly. the chinese season got underway last month, and now these teams will have to prove themselves on the field. four chinese teams also compete in the asian champions league, with mixed results so far. Guangzhou evergrande, who won two asian champions league titles in the last three years, sit bottom of their group right now, but the other three teams are performing better. for the national team, chanc­es of returning to the World cup for the first time in 16 years are still alive, after a 2-0 win over Qatar pushed them into the very last place in the final qualifying round, where they will likely play in a group with one of asia’s strongest teams: Japan, south Korea or australia. 
china will likely learn, like the united states did, that becoming the next big thing in soccer takes a lot more time than you might think. but this year might just be the first step in china’s rise to prominence. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  doboyle1@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TRACK & FIELD | stanford InVItatIonal 
shivers, Jackson win in california over weekend 
Observer Sports Staff 
over the weekend, notre dame traveled to california to compete in the stanford Invitational. 
the meet in palo alto, california, marked the second meet of the outdoor season for the Irish. the women’s team finished third in the acc in­door championships and fifth in the ncaa indoor champi­onships and coming off of the two high-intensity outings, some notable athletes were did not compete in the stanford Invitational, including se­niors molly seidel, margaret bamgbose and graduate stu­dent Kaila barber. 
the absence of these ath­letes left room for some young­er players on the team to shine. In the field events, the Irish left the meet with two first-place finishes from juniors anthony shivers in the men’s discus with a distance of 54.15 meters, and Indi Jackson in the wom­en’s shot put with a distance of 14.76 meters. freshman alexa coubal claimed second place in the women’s shot put closely behind her teammate Jackson with a distance of 
12.96 meters. lena madison also notched a top ten fin­ish in the women’s hammer throw with a distance of 51.65 meters, putting her at seventh place overall in the event. 
the track events also yield­ed some strong performances for the Irish with two top-10 finishes in the men’s 800-me­ter run from junior patrick o’connell and sophomore Kirk Hansen, who finished sixth and seventh respectively. 
o’connell finished with a time of 1:50.22 while Hansen fol­lowed with 1:52.64. In the women’s 800, sophomore Jessica Harris claimed the top time of 2:06.82 among the four Irish athletes run­ning in the event to put her at twelfth place overall. Her teammate, senior danielle aragon, earned 13th place, fol­lowed by junior Jamie marvil in 14th place and sophomore stephanie Knight in 15th place overall. 
Junior alexa pelletier also claimed a top-10 finish for notre dame, coming in ninth in section 3 of the 5,000-meter run with a time of 16:13.96. 
the Irish will have a chance to compete again this com­ing weekend as they travel to arizona state for the sun angel track classic. 

MLB | dodGers 15, padres 0 
Dodgers dominate Padres behind Kershaw gem 
Associated Press 
san dIeGo — clayton Kershaw was brilliant on opening day, holding san diego to one hit in seven in­nings and striking out nine to lead rookie manager dave roberts and the los angeles dodgers to a record-setting 15-0 victory against the padres. 
It was the most lopsided opening day shutout in ma­jor league history. the pre­vious mark was a 14-0 win by the pittsburgh pirates over the cincinnati reds in 1911, according to stats. 
Kershaw (1-0) allowed Jon Jay’s single to left field with two outs in the third and then retired his last 13 bat­ters. the lefty improved to 4-0 in six opening day starts. 
adrian Gonzalez had three of los angeles’ 17 hits and three rbIs, and a.J. ellis also drove in three runs. chase utley had three hits and two rbIs. 
roberts, who played for both the dodgers and padres, and san diego first-year manager andy Green exchanged lineup cards at the plate before the game. It was the first opening day meeting of two rookie skip­pers since fredi Gonzalez of florida and manny acta of Washington in 2007. 
roberts was on san diego’s coaching staff the past five seasons, including the last two as bench coach, but couldn’t get an inter­view for the team’s manage­rial vacancy. 
It was the worst opening day loss in the padres’ 48­year history. san diego had only four hits. 
five straight dodgers reached against tyson ross (0-1) with one out in the five-run sixth, with Kershaw’s single to center chasing the tall right-hand­er. Joc pederson hit an rbI double and ellis a two-run single. 
the dodgers hit ross right away. utley doubled past a diving Jay in left field on ross’ sixth pitch and scored when corey seager followed with a double to the gap. Gonzalez brought him in on a single to cen­ter. Gonzalez also hit an rbI single in the third and drew a leadoff walk in the sev­enth and scored on trayce thompson’s double to left. 
Yasiel puig tripled in the eighth and scored on second baseman cory spangenberg’s throwing error. 
ross allowed eight runs, seven earned, and nine hits in 5 1-3 innings. He struck out five and walked one. 
Blue Jays 5, Rays 3 

st. petersburG, fla. — Josh donaldson, michael saunders and Josh thole homered to help r.a. dickey and the toronto blue Jays beat the tampa bay rays 5-3 on monday night. 
all three of the home runs were hit off drew smyly, with donaldson connecting for a solo shot in the fifth in­ning, saunders delivering a two-run homer in the fourth and thole going deep on a third-inning drive that um­pires initially ruled was a double after a fan interfered by catching the ball before it reached the stands. 
the call was reversed af­ter a replay review, erasing a 1-0 tampa bay lead. 
roberto osuna, the fifth blue Jays pitcher, worked a perfect ninth for his second save. 
smyly, limited to 12 starts a year ago when he spent much of the season on the disabled list due to left shoulder tendinitis, allowed five runs and six hits in 6 2-3 innings. the left-hander walked one and struck out five. 
donaldson hit .297 with 41 homers and 123 rbIs in 2015. the reigning al mVp helped the blue Jays win 93 games and advance to the al championship series in their first playoff appear­ance since 1993. 
troy tulowitzki had a sacrifice fly after homer­ing during the blue Jays’ 5-3 victory on opening day. monday night’s game drew a crowd of 15,116 to tropicana field, a little less than half sunday’s announced sellout of 31,042. 


tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles host Adrian in first conference tilt 

Observer Sports Staff 
saint mary’s will be coming off a week-long break when it takes on adrian on tuesday in its first conference game of the season so far, hoping to make the mIaa tournament for a second consecutive season. 
after starting the season on a strong note, coming home from their spring break trip with an 8-3 record, the belles (10-9, 0-0 mIaa) have strug­gled to maintain their initially strong level of play, winning just two more games since. the belles appear to be im­proving, however, as their two most recent wins have been decisive ones, a 10-2 victory over north central on march 26 and a 9-0 shutout versus manchester on march 28. 
multiple players have shone for the belles throughout the season. sophomore outfielder cassie Young has proven to be an offensive leader, leading the team with her .532 bat­ting average, 33 hits, 23 rbIs and six doubles. Young was also named the mIaa player of the Week on sunday. on the team, the south bend native is closely followed in all catego­ries by sophomore outfielder makenzie duncan. duncan boasts a .444 batting average, 28 hits, 19 rbIs and five dou­bles. she also leads the team with five triples on the year, two home runs and a .778 slugging percentage. 
as the upcoming game against the bulldogs (4-9, 0-2 mIaa) will be the belles’ first conference game of the season, they will begin their quest to make the mIaa tour­nament. the top four teams in the mIaa make the tourna­ment each season. 
though none of the bulldogs are batting for as high an aver­age as Young, adrian has some threats of its own. senior out­fielder Jessica sarch leads the bulldogs, batting .319 with 15 hits. senior catcher morgan brandt also bats .300 and leads the team with one home run and four walks. 
on the mound for adrian, senior Kelsey meyer paces the bulldogs with three wins in eight appearances with 41.2 innings pitched. the right-hander has a 3.36 era and to­tals 19 strikeouts on the year. 
the bulldogs are coming off a two game losing streak, after being swept by trine in their first conference series of the season. the belles have had mixed results against the 
MEN’S GOLF 

Irish take eighth at clemson Invite 
Observer Sports Staff 
this weekend, notre dame competed in the clemson Invitational in salem, south carolina. twelve teams com­peted in the tournament, including clemson, boston college, louisville and michigan state, and the Irish finished eighth with a final score of 899 (+35). clemson’s final team score of 861 at three under par put them in first place at the conclusion of the three day tournament, followed by Georgia tech, who finished 11 shots behind shooting eight over par with a score of 872. Georgia tech claimed the top spot on the individual leaderboard, with junior Vince Whaley shoot­ing an eight-under-par 208 to win the tournament, fol­lowed by louisville senior robin sciot-siegrist at six un­der par and michigan state junior sam Weatherhead at one under par. 
Junior matt rushton had the best performance of the tournament for the Irish, re­cording a score of two over par and tying for ninth place overall. 10 shots out of first place with a total score of 218, rushton was consis­tent throughout the three day tournament, shooting 72-72-74. 
Young and seasoned play­ers alike had strong per­formances for the Irish. freshmen ben albin and miguel delgado both com­peted in the tournament, with albin finishing tied for 17th with five-over par, rising from his 25th place standing on saturday. albin also re­corded the best third-round score on the notre dame team, with an even-par 72. delgado shot six-over par with a score of 78 at the con­clusion of sunday’s round, as did junior blake barens and sophomore thomas steve. steve finished the tourna­ment tied for 64th place. 
the Irish will have a chance to compete again at their home course as they host the battle at the Warren on april 16, and they look ahead to the acc tournament starting april 22. 

bulldogs in the past, splitting their regular season double­headers in each of the past three seasons. However, the games in 2015 provided sig­nificant excitement, as both games went to extra innings. the belles ended up taking the first game, 5-4, in eight in­nings but fell later in the day, 9-5. 
saint mary’s will be at home for the upcoming doublehead­er. the belles have struggled at home this season and look to improve their 1-3 record when they are playing in their own territory, although their lone win at home was one of their strongest showings of the season against north central. 
the anticipation for the belles’ first mIaa game of the year is heightened by the fact that both teams are looking for their first conference win of the season. the belles are hoping to maintain a winning record, while the matchup against saint mary’s is the only mIaa game of the week for the bulldogs. 
saint mary’s will face off against adrian on tuesday, with the first game of the dou­ble-header beginning at 3:30 p.m. 
paId adVertIsement 

paId adVertIsement 




MEN’S TENNIS | fsu 4, nd 3; Vt 6, nd 1; nd 6, csu 1; nd 5, csu 1 
Irish split four weekend matches 
By JACKIE BREBECK 
sports Writer 
notre dame started the week­end slowly. the Irish (12-12, 4-6 acc) fell to no. 22 florida state and unranked Virginia tech before picking up two wins in a sunday doubleheader over chicago state to close out the weekend. 
friday’s 4-3 loss to florida state (14-7, 6-3 acc) came down to a tiebreaker game. although notre dame’s no. 14 ranked senior doubles pairing of alex lawson and Quentin monaghan re­corded a 6-4 win against florida state’s 11th-ranked doubles team of seniors benjamin lock and marco nunez, the seminoles won the doubles point as freshmen Grayson broadus and junior Josh Hagar and junior eddy covalschi and senior Kenneth sabacinski lost their matches 6-3 and 6-4, respectively. 
notre dame started strong in singles play, winning the first three points with victories from lawson 6-4, 6-0; covalschi 6-4, 6-4; and sabacinski 6-2, 4-6, 6-1, making it 3-1. However, the seminoles won the remaining two matches to tie the score. In the deciding match, monaghan faced off against 12th-ranked benjamin lock and nearly won, forcing a tiebreaker. the chathman, new Jersey native eventually fell, how­ever, 6-7(6), 6-3, 7-6(4), and the seminoles won the match. 
the opening match on sunday against Virginia tech lacked the excitment of friday’s contest, with the Irish falling 6-1. doubles play began with the Hokies (13-6, 5-4 acc) pairing of seniors amerigo contini and edoardo tessaro de­feating broadus and monaghan 6-4. covalschi and Hagar pulled the Irish even by winning the next match 6-4. lawson and se­nior nicolas montoya forced a tiebreaker, coming back from a 5-1 deficit, but the Hokies perse­vered and eventually won 7-6(11). In singles play, broadus secured the only singles win and the only point of the night for the Irish with a 7-5, 6-2 win. 
However, sunday ended on a high note for the Irish. When chicago state (2-16, 0-2 Wac) and notre dame agreed to play two matches instead of one, the Irish won both, 6-1 and 5-1. the Irish had a 1-0 advantage going into each game, as the cougars had only five healthy players. In the first game, the Irish took the doubles point with a win 7-5 win by sophomores drew dawson and brendon Kempin, and a for­feit from chicago. monagahn, freshmen daniel rayl, Kempin, and freshmen nathan Griffin gave the Irish four more points, and the cougars got one point in a drawn out 6-4, 5-7, 14-12 win by freshman Gabriel niculescu over sabacinski. In the second match, montoya, lawson, and Kempin took the first three wins, but chicago got one point from a 5-7, 6-3, 10-3 win by sophomore christian Gonzalez. rayl made the score 5-1 by winning the final match of the night. 

Irish head coach ryan sachire recognized his team’s hard work over the weekend but said he sees a need for improvement to be ready for friday’s match with no. 1 north carolina. 
“as is the case with all acc weekends, we played very good opponents this past friday and sunday,” sachire said. “We played very hard and put ourselves into position to be successful in both matches. However, [we] credit our opponents for executing better in big moments and ultimately find­ing a way to win. looking ahead to our match with [north carolina], 
paId adVertIsement 

we have to focus on two major is­sues: fixing our doubles so that becomes a major strength for us once again and trusting our­selves in the biggest moments of the matches. We need to be bet­ter at seizing opportunities and creating separation from our op­ponents when those situations present themselves.” 
the Irish will have their final home game this friday at courtney tennis center at 3:30 p.m. . the five Irish seniors (lawson, monaghan, montoya, sabacinski and eric schnurrenberger) will be honored after the game. 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 




W Tennis 
contInued from paGe 16 
8-2) pairing of senior beatrice capra and and freshman ellyse Hamlin to a 4-4 on court no. 1. the teams of closs and Vrabel, and broda and miller both lost on courts no. 2 and no. 3, re­spectively, however, discon­tinuing Gleason and robinson’s match. 
Irish head coach Jay louderback said he was pleased with his team’s performance in both matches, even with the quick turnaround and traveling to north carolina immediately after playing florida state. 
“I thought we played really well in the singles in both match­es,” louderback said. “playing at duke was a quick turnaround after playing at home on friday, but our team responded well and had a chance to get the win.” 
fennelly’s performance stood out to louderback, he said, as the rathmines, Ireland native won her contest in the florida state contest and was lead­ing against duke freshman christina makarova before the match was discontinued. 
“brooke broda went 2-0 and Jane fennelly was up against duke when the match was stopped or she could have been 2-0,” louderback said. “Jane also was the last match on against fsu and clinched it for us. she did a great job of doing the things we have been working on and it really paid off.” 
this is the time of year when the locations of matches —in­doors or outdoors — is uncertain due to weather conditions, but louderback said he believes his team has the ability to perform well regardless of the setting. 
“I feel like we are prepared to play both indoors and outdoors at this time of year,” louderback said. 
the Irish are back in action on friday when they take on clemson in a conference match-up at eck tennis pavilion on friday at 3:30 p.m. the tigers (8­7, 6-4 acc) are coming off of a 7-0 loss against miami on saturday. following the clemson match, notre dame will host a double­header on sunday against con­ference opponent Georgia tech in the morning and eastern Illinois in the afternoon. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 

Softball 
contInued from paGe 16 

the next test for the Irish is IupuI (10-21, 0-4 summit), who will enter melissa cook stadium on a five-game los­ing skid. though the Jaguars are not ranked as highly as the seminoles, Irish head coach deanna Gumpf said her team’s preparation will not change. 
“totally doesn’t change any­thing,” Gumpf said. “In my mind, IupuI is the best team we’ve played yet this year. … We just look forward. Hopefully we learn lessons [from the victory over florida state]. [sunday] is a good learning day because we were a tale of two teams, but we always try to look forward and look to the next one. that’s all that matters.” 
bigler echoed Gumpf’s em­phasis on improvement, saying the team can gain valuable ex­perience from the florida state games. 
“I think it’s a great learning experience for us,” bigler said. “It just shows that we’re just as good. We might be a young team … but at the end of the day, it’s the same game.” 
Gumpf believes with that ex­perience comes confidence 
“We haven’t played consis­tent great lately and I think [the win over florida state] is a good indication of what we’re capable of, when we play really well,” Gumpf said. 
against the Jaguars, the Irish will have to shut down junior third baseman taylor chitwood, who currently leads her team in batting average (.337), hits (30), rbIs (24) and slugging percentage (.618). 
chitwood is followed by senior second baseman ali mosier, who boasts a .604 slug­ging percentage and leads the Jaguars with seven home runs. 
for the Irish, junior center-fielder Karley Wester leads the team with a .443 batting average and 54 hits. Wester singled and scored in notre dame’s 5-4 win against the seminoles on sunday and also paces the team with 28 stolen bases in 31 attempts this season. 
after the florida state games, Gumpf said patience will be a key for all of her players go­ing forward, and used her team’s performance against seminoles redshirt freshman pitcher meghan King as an example. 

“King did a great job with her up pitch with us,” Gumpf said. “When we were chasing, she was very successful. When we made her throw strikes, we were successful.” 
the contest against IupuI also marks the fourth game in a nine-game homestand for the Irish, something Gumpf is happy about. 
“How nice is that?” Gumpf said. “We can kind of get in a rhythm here, and how cool is that?” 
after tuesday’s matchup against the Jaguars, notre dame welcomes depaul to melissa cook stadium on thursday, before hosting pittsburgh in a three-game weekend series. 
notre dame and IupuI are scheduled to begin their matchup tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


paId adVertIsement paId adVertIsement 




Baseball 
contInued from paGe 16 
said, following sunday’s action. “I think it shows a little resiliency that these guys had, and maybe that carried into the next game 
— I’m not 100 percent sure — but certainly it was a good inning for us; just, unfortunately, a better in­ning for them.” 
aoki said the team needs to parlay that momentum into a strong showing this week, as the Wolverines (20-5, 3-0 big ten) represent a strong resume boost for the ncaa tourna­ment. the Irish also have a game against Valparaiso scheduled for Wednesday night and a three-game acc series with no. 3 miami over the weekend. 
aoki said the opponents on the field aren’t even the only chal­lenges for his team this week: in addition to trying to get rested and rehydrated after a long double­header sunday, off-the-field duties also beckon. 
“unfortunately, I think mendoza has a battery of tests for the finance majors, so that’s not cooperating with it, but these guys are kind of used to it,” aoki said. “they understand what the deal is with that there, and so we try to get ourselves as rested as we can be and get back out there and play at a high level.” 
despite the jam-packed week, however, aoki said he hasn’t con­sidered resting anyone or modify­ing the lineup in any way. 
“I think the thing is we’re play­ing hopefully to play our way into an ncaa berth,” aoki said. “so 
W Golf 
contInued from paGe 16 
commended the senior for her play this weekend. 
“talia had a really solid turn­around,” Holt said. “With what the conditions were, for her to be as consistent as she was, that was a very good showing for her. but really, all the girls had contri­butions to the weekend. We had some really good crucial rounds. It was a team effort, and that’s a good thing. We’ve never relied on the same group of individuals every day — it’s always just all of them pitching in.” 
freshman maddie rose Hamilton tied for 26th place at 12-over-par 228, and fellow freshman Isabella dilisio tied for 34th place at 14-over-par 230. Junior Jordan ferreira and fresh­man emma albrecht were part of a three-way tie for 42nd place at 16-over-par 232. Holt said she was pleased with the final rank­ings, but said believes there is room for improvement. 
“We’ve always got things to you play the lineup that you think going to give you the best oppor­tunity to win. most of your core guys, the infielders, you know who those guys are. We’ve obvi­ously bounced around a little bit in the outfield with the excep­tion of [freshman outfielder matt] Vierling as a steady presence out there, but we try to go and win. 
“every one of these games counts towards ncaa stuff, and michigan has gotten off to a great start. they’re a good team, [with] obviously kind of that traditional football rivalry — I’m not sure if that exists to that extent in base­ball, but I think any time that you can beat michigan, that’s probably a notch in your belt so to speak.” 
michael Hearne will get the start against the Wolverines on tuesday night. It will be the se­nior right hander’s sixth start and seventh appearance. Hearne is currently 2-0 on the season with a 
3.67 era and 18 strikeouts over 27 innings of work. 
His last start came last Wednesday during notre dame’s 6-3 win over visiting oregon. Hearne allowed three runs over four innings of work while strik­ing out two on his way to a no decision. 
notre dame and michigan last met april 9, 2014 in ann arbor, michigan, when the Irish rode a 4-for-5, 3 rbI day at the plate from current senior first baseman Zak Kutsulis to a 9-1 road victory. 
this year’s iteration of the ri­valry is slated to begin tuesday at 
6:05 p.m. at frank eck stadium. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 
work on,” Holt said. “this week­end, putting was difficult, in part because of the wind. the balls were moving — kind of wiggling — on the green as we were try­ing to hit them there. even short gains could have been better. those were things we could have done better, but they had chal­lenging conditions to deal with. We’ll get back in town and work on those things as we prep for accs around the corner. 
“everybody is ready to play [at the acc championships] and looking forward to the challenge. the acc women’s golf confer­ence is super competitive and we stand pretty well in those rankings. every time is just an opportunity to compete and get more experience. It’s going to be an interesting championship this year to see who comes out on top, because there are a lot of good teams.” 
the Irish will return to Greensboro for the acc champi­onships on april 15 - 17. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at mschweni@nd.edu 

Like us on Facebook. 
fb.com/ndsmcobserver 



tHe obserVer | TUESDAY, APRIL 5, 2016 | ndsmcobserVer.com 
BASEBALL 

Notre Dame, Michigan to meet in midweek game 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
assistant managing editor 
after winning its first home conference series of the year last weekend against Wake forest, notre dame returns to the frank eck stadium turf tuesday night against institutional rival no. 25 michigan. 
the Irish (15-11, 6-6 acc) enter the mid-week contest with some momentum after clinching the se­ries against the demon deacons (18-12, 5-7) with a victory in the second game of a doubleheader sunday. the team got on a roll starting with the final inning in the first game of the day. 
notre dame entered the bot­tom of the ninth trailing 15-7 but clawed all the way back to put the tying run on base before ultimate­ly falling 15-13. the Irish picked up right where they left off, though, en route to a 10-2 victory in the se­ries’ rubber match. 
“[the ninth inning charge] was good,” Irish head coach mik aoki 
see baseball PAGE 15 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, florIda state 3; duKe 4, nd 1 
Irish split pair of acc matchups 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports Writer 
over the weekend, notre dame defeated florida state 4-3 in a home conference matchup friday at eck tennis pavilion. two days later, the Irish traveled to durham, north carolina for another conference matchup against no. 10 duke, where they lost 4-1 at the ambler tennis center. 
during friday’s matchup, the Irish (10-9, 4-6 acc) controlled most of the singles competition, winning four of the six matches. on court no. 2, junior monica robinson won her match 6-4, 6-2, followed by a victory by sophomore allison miller 6-2, 6-4 on court no. 3. sophomore brooke broda won her match 6-1, 6-4 on court no. 5 and on court no. 6, junior Jane fennelly earned a hard fought 7-6(5), 6-2 win. on court no. 1, however, senior Quinn Gleason was de­feated 6-4, 6-3. the other Irish singles loss was junior mary closs, who won the first set 6-4 before narrowly losing the last two sets 7-6(3), 6-3 on court no. 4. 
In the doubles competi­tion, the team of Gleason and robinson won 6-4 on court no. 1. the teams of senior Julie Vrabel and closs, and broda and miller both lost 6-3 on courts no. 2 and no. 3, respectively. 
on sunday, the Irish had a tougher time, winning only one singles matchup as broda claimed a 6-2, 7-6(3) victory on court no. 5. on court no. 1, Gleason lost 7-6, 6-3, followed by a robinson 6-3, 6-3 loss on court no. 2 and a miller 6-3, 6-4 loss on court no. 3. closs won her first set 7-6(5) before losing the sec­ond set 6-4 and was losing 4-0 in the deciding set when the match was discontinued on court no. 
4. fennelly won her first two sets 6-4 and 5-3 before her match was discontinued on court no. 6. 
In the doubles competition, Gleason and robinson fought the 13th ranked duke (15-3, 
see W tennIs PAGE 14 

ND SOFTBALL 
Squad welcomes IUPUI to Melissa Cook Stadium 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
after splitting a two-game weekend series with no. 9 florida state, no. 22 notre dame returns to ac­tion tuesday against IupuI, looking to build on its momentum. 
after losing 14-5 earlier in the day, notre dame (26-6, 5-3 acc) rallied on sunday evening to snap florida state’s (27-4, 7-1) 22-game winning streak, with a walk-off single by sophomore left fielder bailey bigler. 
the split doubleheader puts the Irish at fourth place in the acc, and bigler said she thinks the team can build off the momentum of beating the acc-leading seminoles. 
“from this point on, we know we’re a top team that can compete with these other teams,” bigler said. “We have the ability to put so many runs on the board and hits, and string them togeth­er and really go for the win.” 
see softball PAGE 14 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF | brYan natIonal colleGIate 
nd takes fifth in north carolina 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports Writer 
after looking to improve an 11th-place finish at the lsu tiger classic, notre dame posted a fifth place finish at the bryan national collegiate in Greensboro, north carolina this weekend, despite poor weather conditions through­out the tournament. 
With its sixth top-five fin­ish this season, notre dame finished at 45-over-par 909, edging out acc foes north carolina state and miami and rival michigan. no. 20 Virginia won the tournament with south carolina, no. 21 florida state and Wake forest taking spots two through four. Irish head coach susan Holt said she was especially pleased by the team’s perfor­mance against in-conference opponents. 
“of course south carolina is going to have a home-course advantage,” Holt said. “florida state [and] Virginia beat us, but we’ve beaten all of them at different points this season. I was just proud of [my team] for hanging in there.” 
the wind and weather con­ditions in Greensboro turned out to be the most difficult hurdle for the Irish, as gusts of up to 35 mph caused seri­ous interference with play. no player broke 70 on the par-72 course all weekend and Holt said playing against the ele­ments is the hardest variable to control. 
“the conditions were tough to prepare for,” Holt said. “It was really challenging, and we certainly would have liked to have scored better. at the end of the day, they got through it and I’m pleased overall with the finish. Golf is a mental game as much as it is a physical game, and with the conditions, it was pretty tough to stay positive and keep your­self going. at the end of the day, it ended up pretty good.” 
senior captain talia campbell posted her best score of the year with a tie for eighth-place at eight-over-par 
224. It was her 20th career team-leading finish, the sec­ond player in program his­tory to hit that mark. Holt 
see W Golf PAGE 15 




