The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 102 | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Senior Class Council tickets vie for votes 
Senate has already confirmed Junior and Sophomore Council tickets, while seniors vote today 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
Two tickets will compete to be elected to the executive board for senior class council. elections will take place today from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., according to Judicial council. because tick­ets for Junior class council and sophomore class council ran unopposed, they were declared winners by student senate last wednesday. 

Senior Class Council 
Katelyn wray, clare geraghty, Zach bequette and celanire Flagg designed their platform to focus on four main pillars — experiencing the city of south bend, providing outlets for students to develop profession­ally, building lasting memories with friends and leaving a class-wide legacy at notre dame. 
“utilizing the diversity of the senior class, we strive to have programs that bring the entire community together and cre­ate opportunities for people who may no longer be involved 
through dorm life,”  wray, the  
ticket’s  presidential  candidate,  
said in an email.  

wray said the ticket has identi­fied events affiliated with each pillar that are both feasible and innovative, including a signature class of 2017 event during antostal, a class service day and an event for seniors to take professional 
see elecTion PAGE 3 





Panelists examine voting rights 
shaping of the electorate in the 

By JENNA WILSON 
past. 
The panelists included dianne 

The center for civil and human pinderhughes, chair of the depart-rights sponsored the panel ment of africana studies and pro-discussion “The right to vote: fessor of political science, Jennifer shaping an american electorate” mason mcaward, associate pro-on monday afternoon. moderated fessor of law and acting director by david campbell, chair of the of the center for civil and human department of political science, rights, and luis Fraga, professor the discussion centered on the ac-of political science and arthur cessibility of the ballot in current american culture, as well as the see voTing PAGE 4 
news writer 


government investigates nd sexual assault case 
email monday evening. 167 colleges and universi-

Observer Staff Report 
The south bend Tribune ties under investigation by 
The university of notre reported monday that the the ocr, according to the dame is under investiga-ocr opened the investiga-Tribune. tion by the united states tion on Feb. 19. The university had previ­department of education’s “The accused student in ously been under investi­office of civil rights (ocr) this matter is no longer en-gation for possible Title iX for possible Title iX vio-rolled at the university as of violations related to its han­lations pertaining to the the spring semester of 2015, dling of sexual assault cases university’s handling of nearly a year before we in 2011, according to a letter sexual violence cases, learned of the ocr charge,” sent in 2011 to university university spokesman brown said. dennis brown said in an notre dame is one of see assaulT PAGE 3 

Pope Francis honors Notre Dame priest 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
at an ash wednesday mass in vatican city, pope Francis commissioned more than 700 priests — includ­ing notre dame’s Fr. Joseph corpora — as missionaries of mercy. 
corpora, who serves as di­rector of university-school partnerships for the alliance for catholic education (ace), said the missionaries of mercy are granted the authority to forgive sins usually reserved to the pope. 
“There are certain sins that if a priest does, he’s automatically excommuni­cated from the church,” he said. “There are other sins that lay people commit that are reserved to the holy see. we have the faculty to for­give those sins for the year’s length. 
“The real work is trying to help in one’s own way to help people more fully accept and believe in god’s mercy.” 
see priesT PAGE 4 


Photo courtesy of Fr. Joseph Corpora 

Pope Francis named Fr. Joseph Corpora a Missionary of Mercy along with more than 700 priests. The  Missionaries of Mercy are granted the authority to forgive certain extraordinary forms of sin. 

news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 7 Fencing PAGE 12 bengal bouTs PAGE 12 



ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
margaret hynds 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 


Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 

News Editor: Katie galioto Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: Jimmy Kemper Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 

Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 


Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmes01@saintmarys.ed 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@smcndobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 


Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 


News 
catherine owers andrea vale Jenna wilson 
Graphics 
eric richelsen 
Photo 
emmet Farnan 
Sports 

alex carson hunter mcdaniel 
Scene 

miko malabute 
Viewpoint 

austin Taliaferro 


Corrections 

The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What are your Spring Break plans? 


Jenn Blum 
junior 
walsh hall 
“going to miami.” 
Monica Golbranson 
junior 
walsh hall 
“going home to cali.” 
Megan Davey 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“going home to the beaches of san diego.” 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 
Have a question you want answered? Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Molly Heck 
freshman 
walsh hall 
“going to Kansas city and Jacksonville, Florida, with a friend.” 
Ally Chang 
junior 
badin hall 
“road trippin’ to Florida.” 
Maggie Arriola 
junior badin hall “Traveling to the galapagos islands to confirm the Theory of evolution.” 
Want your event included here? Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
Tuesday  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
“Stand Up Women”  Diversity Panel  Mindful Meditation  Edit-a-thon  Men’s Basketball vs.  
DeBartolo Performing  Oak Room  Coleman-Morse  Notre Dame Center for  NC State  
Arts Center  South Dining Hall  Center  Arts & Culture  Purcell Pavilion  
5 p.m.-6 p.m.  6:30 p.m. -8 p.m.  5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m.  6 p.m.-8 p.m.  12 p.m.-2 p.m.  
Gender performance  Forum discussing  Open to students of all  Edit Wikipedia with ND  The Irish take on the  
and critque.  diversity.  faiths.  Black Lives Matter.  Wolfpack.  
Blood Drive  Men’s Basketball vs.  Iron Sharpens Iron  Graduate Student  Hats Off to Reading  
Grace Hall  Miami  Coleman-Morse  First Friday Dinner  Notre Dame Bookstore  
10 a.m.-2 p.m.  Purcell Pavilion  Center  Coleman-Morse  10 a.m.-11 a.m.  
Benefiting Relay  7p.m.-9 p.m.  10 p.m.-11:30 p.m.  Center  Reading of “The Lorax”  
for Life. Donors will  The Irish take on the  Fellowship for all  6:15 p.m.-7:30 p.m.  and sustainability  
recieve a free t-shirt.  Hurricanes .  denominations.  All faiths are invited.  discussion.  

smc team joins Team impacT 
By SYDNEY ENLOW 
news writer 

The saint mary’s volleyball team has become the second saint mary’s athletic team to partner up with Team impacT, which connects children fac­ing life-threatening or chronic illness with local college athletic teams, ac­cording to its website. The volleyball team has been paired with melody blower, a 13-year-old girl who was born with a cleft palate and later diagnosed with agenesis of the corpus callosum. 
head volleyball coach denise van de walle said she learned of the orga­nization through the saint mary’s bas­ketball team’s relationship with Team impacT and brianna sikora, who joined the basketball team last winter. 
“i learned about all that she does with their team,” van de walle said. “it’s been wonderful to watch the growth of their relationship. so when my boss came to me and asked if we would to be involved, i answered with a resounding yes.” 
van de walle also said the team plans to include melody in both athlet­ic and social atmospheres and events. 
“mel can be as involved as she wants to be with us,” van de walle said. “she can attend our practices, she can sit 
“We are a close-knit team, but I think [Melody’s] special personality will bring us together even more.” 
Clare McMillan 
junior setter 
Saint Mary’s volleyball team 
in the locker room before and after matches, she can come to our banquet, she can attend other athletic events, we can go to the movies, etc. she is welcomed into our team with open arms.” 
clare mcmillan, a junior on the team, said she is excited to for the team to get to know melody and her family. 
“it is a special experience to be able to share our passion with people in the community, and we are so lucky to be able to share and learn from someone as sweet as melody,” mcmillan said. 
mcmillan said she is also looking forward to seeing melody learn more about the culture of the saint mary’s volleyball team. 
“i think our matches will be exciting for her to experience,” mcmillan said. “i am also looking forward to learning from melody. we are a close-knit team, but i think her special personality will bring us together even more.” 
melody was officially inducted into the team Feb. 10 during halftime of the saint mary’s volleyball game, where she received her own team ap­parel and jersey, according to the saint mary’s website. 
Contact Sydney Enlow at  senlow01@saintmarys.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | The observer 

Election 
conTinued From page 1 
headshots to use in résumés or portfolios. 
“remember how fun hip-hop night was freshman year? we are going to make legends great again with senior night. live music, cheap drinks and all of our friends in one place — legends, as legends was meant to be,” she said. 
wray, geraghty and Flagg all served on sophomore class council, and wray cur­rently serves as vice presi­dent of Junior class council. geraghty, the ticket’s vice presidential candidate, now serves as cavanaugh hall pres­ident. bequette serves on the club coordination council, which allocates funds to stu­dent groups on campus and facilitates university-club in­teractions, in addition to being a member of the officer board of the club sailing team. 
geraghty said the ticket’s top priority is to foster a tight-knit class community, despite the fact many seniors live off campus. 
“it can be difficult to have class cohesion when everyone has such diverse involvement and interests within the notre dame community,” she said. “ … it is our goal to extend our reach to the entire class by putting on events that all members of the class will gen­uinely enjoy. we are dedicated to bringing the class together for a final year under the dome and making memories to last a lifetime.” 
The other ticket for senior class council consists of patrick Tinsley, noelle gooding, Jake dunigan and andrew Thomas. The cam­paign said the central theme of its platform is “the notion of building bridges.” 
“senior year, for many, repre­sents a number of separations — separating from your on-campus friends if you move off campus, separating from col­lege life when you graduate and separations between different aspects of notre dame student life as a whole,” Tinsley, the ticket’s presidential candidate, said in an email. “our goal is to bridge those separations.” 
The ticket hopes to work with university administra­tion to improve the shuttle sys­tem to and from off-campus housing sites and designate certain parking spots closer to academic buildings for off-campus students for a limited period of time during the day, Tinsley said. 
“at the core of our platform lies a tremendous respect for next year’s graduating class,” he said. “as to-be seniors ourselves, we respect the re­maining time we have at this university, time that should be used most effectively during our last year.” 
Tinsley said that if elected, the ticket also plans to host re­gional mixers that would allow students to meet classmates that plan to work in the same city after graduation. 
“meeting some other soon-to-be notre dame alums who also will be living in an area might help ease that transition and provide you with a built-in network of friends before you ever arrive at your job,” he said. 
no members of the ticket have served on a class coun­cil before, which Tinsley said would allow the group to pro­vide a fresh perspective to the role. Tinsley served as the Transfer welcome weekend co-commissioner last fall and is currently the student union board representative for alumni hall and a dorm judi­cial council member. gooding is president of notre dame’s branch of the american society of mechanical engineers and has been active in her dorm’s hall council in the past. 

dunigan co-founded and is currently vice president of notre dame’s chapter of young americans for Freedom, while Thomas currently serves as the stanford hall senator. 
The ultimate goal of the ticket is to bring seniors together with events like class grotto trips, 
“Remember how fun Hip-Hop Night was freshman year? We are going to make Legends great again with Senior Night. Live music, cheap drinks and all of our friends in one place — Legends, as Legends was meant to be.” 
Katelyn Wray 
candidate 
senior class council 
service projects, south bend cubs games, a senior class for­mal and a revamped senior week, Tinsley said. 
“it’s our last ride — we want to make it count,” he said. “Four years is all we get with our friends, roommates and fellow domers. in recognition of the fleeting nature of our college years, we are hoping to provide several events for the senior class as a whole to better cher­ish and appreciate our final year together.” 
Junior Class Council 
sara dugan, Janet stengle, paul stevenson and matthew peters said they hope to foster a sense of unity between mem­bers of the junior class, both on campus and in study abroad locations. 
“For the first time since we have gotten to notre dame, our class will be significantly separated,” peters, who will assume the position of sec­retary, said in an email. “we will be divided by oceans, with students studying in countries across the globe. Furthermore, our class will be significantly subdivided into their respec­tive majors. For these reasons and many more, it is not hard for the junior class to appear divided or fragmented. it is our goal to mitigate these effects.” 
The executive board plans to increase advertising for class council events, such as south bend cubs games and brother-sister dorm olympics, to increase participation and maintain accountability, dugan, Junior class council president-elect, said. 
“Junior year is a unique time for students at notre dame,” she said. “as the Junior class council executive board, we really want to focus our efforts on catering specifically to those unique qualities. in addition, we hope to bring the Junior class council’s events to the attention of campus by staying visible, both online and around campus, and to stay account­able to our goals by adhering to the plans we make at the begin­ning of our term.” 
dugan currently serves as parliamentarian for the ricketts-ruelas administra­tion and works as a student as­sistant in the student activities office. both stengle and stevenson served on Freshman class council and sophomore class council. stevenson also works for the orientation steering committee and the university communications department. peters has had no student government experience. 
stengle, who will serve as vice president, said they plan to restructure Junior class council based on feedback and experiences from previous years. 
“our goal is to assign task 
paid adverTisemenT 

forces during the council ap­plication process based on work style, strengths and per­sonalities to ensure that each event is executed to its fullest potential,” she said. “This will also allow for members of the council to hold greater respon­sibility and to build camarade­rie through collaboration.” 
Sophomore Class Council 
michael conlon, mary ninneman, Jane driano and chris lembo said they hope to recognize the diversity of their class and use it to bring people together during the upcoming year. 
“we would like to be a more open class council,” conlon, who will assume the role of president, said in an email. “it is our responsibility to serve our constituents in the class of 2019 and to promote their ideas in future decision-making.” 
conlon said his executive board plans to host events that promote class unity through prayer, service and fun. 
“There is no better instru­ment of unification than serving our south bend com­munity,” he said. “additionally, we will offer opportunities to reflect on our notre dame ex­perience together.” 
all four members on the tick­et serve as officers on the cur­rent Freshmen class council, conlon said. 
“with our previous student government involvement and individual interests, we look forward to serving our class for another year to the best of our abilities,” he said. “we have formed extensive con­nections in the notre dame administration and the other class councils, and we look for­ward to collaborating with and expanding our network to fur­ther foster community within our class.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 
Assault 
conTinued From page 1 
president Fr. Jenkins from ocr. The ocr opened the investigation in december 2010, after the death of saint mary’s college first-year lizzy seeberg. seeberg killed herself after reporting that she had been sexually as­saulted by prince shembo, a notre dame football player. 
The investigation was re­solved on June 30, 2011 and notre dame agreed to make changes in its handling of sexual assault cases, ac­cording to the ocr resolu­tion. The university agreed to educate students on the reporting process and the steps law enforcement will take after a report is filed, the resolution said. it also agreed to conclude Title iX investigations within 60 days of a complaint, the res­olution said. 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Voting 
conTinued From page 1 
Foundation  endowed professor  
of  Transformative  latino  
leadership.  

african americans did legally receive enfranchisement after the passing of the 15th amendment to the constitution, pinderhughes said, yet they remained disenfran­chised because numerous devic­es, such as literacy tests, prevented many eligible african americans from actually voting. 
“post-civil war, states were trying to make sure blacks could not partake in the electoral [sys­tem]. … southern states have very large populations, these people form the balance of electoral power in the south, and southern leaders attempted to curtail that,” she said. “The right to vote could not be sustained because of the power of the states, who were specifically determined to stop african americans from voting. even today, we see this challenge to the right to vote.” 
mcaward said congress at­tempted to change the situation with the 1965 voting rights act. 

“The 15th amendment was ba­sically ignored for over 50 years after it was passed because of lit­eracy tests that were enacted in the south,” she said. “congress starting in the late 1950s to try to deal with that legacy in the south.” 
understanding the act is im­perative to understanding its legacy, mcaward said. There are five sections of the voting rights act, which outlawed discrimina­tory voting practices that many southern states adopted, includ­ing literacy tests, as a prerequisite to vote. while the act’s provisions provide nationwide protection of voting rights, it also contains spe­cial provisions that apply specifi­cally to certain jurisdictions in the south. 
“under section 2 of the law, any citizen can become a plaintiff, that is, the person that is challeng­ing a law, has to prove the law that was passed was discriminatory,” she said. “however, under section 5 [which only applies to certain jurisdictions], districts have to pre-clear their voting law changes with the department of Justice. changing that burden of proof is an important thing — it places the burden of proof on the govern­ment itself.” 
according to mcaward, this provision stopped about 40 to 50 discriminatory voting laws from being enacted per year. however, mcaward said that in the landmark case shelby county 
v. holder, the supreme court de­clared that the “coverage formula” 
— which decided what jurisdic­tions had to abide by section 5 of the law — was outdated and unconstitutional. 
Contact Jenna Wilson at jwilso35@nd.edu 
Priest 
conTinued From page 1 
corpora, a 1976 notre dame graduate, was or­dained a holy cross priest in 1984, according to the ace web­site. he served as the pastor of two churches over the course of two de­cades — a primarily latino parish in arizona and a parish in oregon. he founded the first catholic school to be opened in the diocese of phoenix in 30 years. 
according to the ace website, corpora returned to notre dame in 2009. he currently serves as associate director of latino stu­dent ministry within the office of campus ministry. he also directs the catholic school advantage campaign, an ace initiative seek­ing to double to percentage of latino families who enroll their children in catholic schools. 
corpora traveled to rome on Feb. 7 at the invitation of pope Francis, who designated this liturgical year as a Jubilee year of mercy last april. 
“i think that when the holy Father came up with this idea, part of what he was thinking was a way of get­ting a whole world to think about mercy,” he said. “he seems to have an extraordinary grace of knowing what the world needs.” 
corpora said he had the chance to meet pope Francis for a brief sec­ond, as he was greeting members of the crowd. he kissed the pope’s hand, although he did not get to speak with him. 
“sometimes you meet famous people, and they’re not who they seem like,” he said. “but that’s not at all with him. he is who you see on Tv.” 

The hundreds of missionaries hailed from countries around the world, corpora said. 
“after the Father spoke to us, we all sang the ‘hail holy Queen’ in latin,” he said. “it was interesting to hear 700 people singing that song, from all over the world, in the same language. … There was a sense of commonality amongst us. it struck me.” 
The commission of the mis­sionaries was scheduled for ash wednesday, the beginning of the season of lent. corpora said seeing a cardinal put ashes, a symbol of penitence, on the pope’s forehead was particularly impactful. 
paid adverTisemenT 
“he always says he’s a sinner, so i shouldn’t have been surprised,” he said. “but he got ashes like everyone else.” 
corpora said he does not know how he was selected to be a missionary of mercy. he received an email from the vatican on dec. 22, saying his name had been submit­ted and the pope had accepted it. 
“as far as i am aware, this has nev­er happened for a Jubilee year be­fore,” he said. “That the pope would select certain people to be part of this whole endeavor — it fits him perfectly. he hasn’t involved ‘on the ground’ priests before.” 
corpora’s new role requires him to suspend his regular pastoral du­ties for a year. he has plans to travel to catholic dioceses across the country to offer penance services and speak with priests and bishops. 
“i’m supposed to just make my­self available, and what that’s go­ing to mean is hearing confessions and talking about this whole idea of what god’s mercy is,” he said. 
corpora said he was grateful, surprised and humbled to be a missionary of mercy. 
“all you need to be a missionary of mercy is to be a big sinner and know a lot about forgiveness,” he said. “i’m a big sinner and know a lot about forgiveness. it’s not like it’s something to be proud of. i do think that i have received a lifetime of mercy and forgiveness, and i want to be able to pass that on in any way that i can.” 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Nick Laureano 
scene writer 

“The #academyawards are on abc this year and people are honestly won­dering if #TheForceawakens will get a best picture nomination.” 
Two months ago, i tweeted this brash statement along with a screengrab of abc’s wikipedia page — specifically of the portion noting that abc is a sub­sidiary of disney. disney, of course, purchased the “star wars” franchise — as well as the rest of lucasfilm — from george lucas for $4 billion in 2012. 
The steady decline of the oscars’ television ratings is an annual point of discussion for film and television jour­nalists. Fancying myself something of an oscars-whisperer, i was certain disney would doctor the nomination process to make room for their smash hit, “star wars: The Force awakens.” surely including one of the most popular movies ever made in the batch of best picture nominees — which are usually little-seen, middlebrow “prestige pictures” — would prove an irresistible way for disney and abc to cheat their way out of the oscars 
Jimmy Kemper 
scene writer 
The system failed Kesha. 

after 18 months of a grueling le­gal battle against producer lukasz “dr. luke” gottwald, the manhattan supreme court ruled against Kesha on Feb. 19, declining to grant her a prelimi­nary injunction that would temporarily liberate her from her contract with sony music entertainment while her claims of rape and other abuse from the pop superproducer made their way through the courts. 
This was the latest step in a legal battle that began all the way back in october 2014, when Kesha sued dr. luke in a california court, accusing him of rape and other “despicable conduct.” gottwald responded with a defama­tion lawsuit, filed in new york, claiming Kesha was trying to extort him to escape her recording contract. subsequently, Kesha filed counterclaims in new york. last June, a california judge said the new york case should go first, and in september, Kesha filed in new york ask­ing for the preliminary injunction. 
when Justice shirley Kornreich denied this injunction, she argued “her instinct ratings slump. 
The nominees were announced three weeks later. To my surprise (and disappointment — i adore “The Force awakens”), it received no recognition in any of the major categories, includ­ing best picture. ultimately, if naïvely, my sadness gave way to relief. That “The Force awakens” wasn’t awarded any big nominations was affirmation the academy stands for something. That an inordinate sum of money and popularity, along with pressure from corporate higher-ups, aren’t enough to corrupt that antiquated taste-making Tv show we call the oscars. That oscar voters at the very least remain true to their taste. “The Force awakens” and its yearlong advertising campaign were a spectacular mix of nostalgia and ex­hibitionism. i loved that mix, but i can respect the honesty to self displayed by the academy in not nominating it for any of the big awards. 
or so i thought. but after seeing alejandro iñárritu accept the award for achievement in directing for his work on “The revenant,” i threw what sym­pathy i had out the window. 
in filling his movie’s two-and-a­half hour running time with gore, 
is to do the commercially reasonable thing” and uphold Kesha’s contract, de­spite Kesha’s insistence she “does not feel safe in any way” working with dr. luke. 
with this ruling, Kesha, then, is not just an alleged victim of sexual abuse at the hands of a single man but of a sys­tem that inherently fails to protect basic human rights in favor of defending the monetary interests of corporations. 
madeline davis of Jezebel sees this as a typical and systemic problem of the industry. “when a contractual violation and a human violation are put head-to­head in court, an idealist would think that a human being’s safety takes prece­dence. a realist, however, would know better. The music industry, like many in­dustries, is predisposed to favor its own safety: what’s ‘commercially reasonable’ for sony can frequently be at odds — in more cases than just Kesha’s — to the well-being of the women it signs,” she writes. 
consequently, the message of the court’s decision — that sony’s person-hood, which only exists in the eye of the law, surpasses that of Kesha, an actual human — is abundantly clear: without true, unadulterated justice, victims of abuse have no escape. 
as Kat george of noisey argued in rape, blunt statements about race and mystical musings that play like a poor imitation of Terrence malick, iñárritu crafted a movie that is bloated and portentous. Quite frankly, “The revenant” is terrible. 
but there’s flashy camerawork — long takes, anyone? — and extreme conditions and locations to burn. i must admit: iñárritu has style, and sometimes it works to marvelous ef­fect. watching his camera, piloted by three-time oscar-winner emmanuel lubezki, plummet down an icy wa­terfall alongside leonardo dicaprio is like riding through a nightmarish water park. but imagine that scene repeated over and over for two-and-a­half hours — that’s “The revenant.” it’s all style and technique; it’s a masterful student film. at this point for iñárritu, directing is an exercise not in storytell­ing, but in exhibitionism. 
he snagged his second consecutive directing oscar (last year, he actu­ally earned the award for “birdman”) on sunday. i’d like to think iñárritu won in spite of his rank exhibition­ism, but looking at “The revenant,” a movie that exists mainly as a platform to show off technical prowess, i’m 
2015, the point isn’t that dr. luke may or may not be guilty of what Kesha accused him of but that “the onerous nature of the competing lawsuits is such that Kesha has fallen into purgatory, while dr. luke, miraculously, continues to thrive in his profession.” 
so because she tried to stand up for herself, to end her suffering and to over­come patriarchal, systemic injustices, Kesha has now been subjected to even greater abuses at the hands of the le­gal system and the embarrassment of slut-shaming by a critical, misogynistic public. 
even if Kesha can work with other producers, as sony promised, a plethora of issues remain locked in that con­tract. marc hogan of pitchfork notes in his analysis of the court case, “Kesha may still be able to record for dr. luke’s sony imprint Kemosabe records without gottwald’s involvement … but imagine how that sounds to someone whose fu­ture success would line the pockets of the person who allegedly drugged and raped her.” 
Furthermore, as Kat george notes in a more recent piece, dr. luke remains one of the most powerful producers in the world, so working without him under sony “might cause the record label to forced to come to terms with the fact iñárritu’s exhibitionism is exactly why he won. 
That sad fact points to the hypocrisy of the academy. perhaps as a mat­ter of principle, it won’t nominate a crowd-pleasing, thrilling spectacle of a movie like “The Force awakens.” however, dress a pulpy revenge tale up with religious overtones, a brood­ing score, beautiful-yet-meaningless camerawork, imprecise statements regarding race and overly serious per­formances, and suddenly you’re the director of the year. yes, both movies are filled with spectacle for the sake of spectacle, but “The Force awakens” is actually entertaining. The signs have always been there, but for whatever reason, only now do i see the truth: The academy’s taste in directing — in addi­tion to its backward racial politics — is totally reproachable. uncompromising devotion to taste is a good thing but only if you’ve got good taste. 
The views expressed expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
    Contact Nick Laureano at                      nlaurean@nd.edu 
take the promotion and resources put into her future albums less seriously.” 
sony’s failure of Kesha extends be­yond the nuances of their contract. by supporting and investing in dr. luke throughout this whole process, sony has shown its interests currently lie with pro­tecting their male producer from legal repercussions, rather than defending their female singer from psychological, physical and sexual abuse. 
unfortunately, we, as an industry, whether we be producers, critics or consumers of music, are not free of fault either. while Kesha is forced to stand on the sidelines and watch her career slowly fade away, we sustain this system that puts more value in money than a wom­an’s safety. sony and the greater music industry’s continuing support of dr. luke, as well as our own personal con­sumption of sony and dr. luke’s music, indicate a passive acceptance of sexism and abuse. 
by being complicit, we all have failed Kesha. 
The views expressed expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
    Contact Jimmy Kemper at              jkemper2@nd.edu 

ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 

The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

hold the reviews 
Miko Malabute 
senior scene writer 

i find music and movie reviews are so absolutely pointless. There, i said it. and no, before you start draw­ing conclusions, i am not referring to any particular writer or any par­ticular entity. Furthermore, i fully understand there is a place for these types of articles in our society. 
but keep all of those reviews away from me. 
“art is subjective.” That phrase is widely known but easily forgotten in light of heated debates between what rating a certain movie or album should have received. when one of our favorite projects comes under fire by critics and peers alike, we are quick to forget how personal art is to each and every one of us and are in­sistent as to why our particular taste in films and music is the “right” one and why others should adopt our taste. 
music and movies are very much a subjective experience. it’s why you openly acknowledge a “guilty plea­sure” movie — admitting that just because a certain project doesn’t meet “objective” standards, it doesn’t mean that project doesn’t meet your own subjective standards. 
a quick search on google for a comprehensive list of the best guilty pleasure movies proved to be a les­son in futility for a simple reason: For as many curators of these lists there are, there will be just as many different lists — that is, no two lists could ever really be the same. This is because the experience of enjoying these pieces of art will always be dif­ferent between two different people. 
now, i understand why there is a place for reviews in today’s society. if one enjoys a particular movie or album and another piece of art that follows more or less the same formu­la and it receives a good score, then one would feel naturally inclined — and rightfully so — to check it out based on a trusted recommendation. 
but let me figure out what i want to like. i have no interest in what you deem to be worthy of my atten­tion and consumption. sometimes, i like the billboard Top 100 songs. sometimes, i like a movie that has an imdb score of three out of 10. what matters to me is how that piece of art resonates with me. similarly, if i ever write a review about a project and you don’t agree with what i say, then by all means disregard whatever i say — if you enjoyed it, then that’s all that should matter. 
Contact Miko Malabute at  mmalbut@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stephen Raab 
let’s Talk smart 

This weekend marked the one-year anniversary of the death of university president emeritus Fr. Theodore hesburgh, notre dame’s longest-tenured president. as a method of commemoration, the Knights of columbus opted to hold a “poker smoker” event that was exactly what it sounded like — a night of card playing followed by the smoking of cigars. proceeds from the Knights event went to hesburgh hospital in ecuador. Knott hall hosted a similar “trib­ute” event that also incorporated cigars. both events were promoted as “a great way to honor a great man.” The week@nd contained a description of the Knights event with a clickable link to purchase a ticket. 
i can certainly applaud the idea of commemorating the legacy of Father Ted, a man who gave so much of himself to others, through a charity. but it is irrespon­sible of both Knott hall and the Knights of columbus to promote the consumption of tobacco products. cigar smoking in particular causes cancer of the lung, lip, tongue, mouth, throat, esophagus, pancreas and larynx. cigar smoke has higher concentrations of car­cinogens and tar than cigarette smoke. nicotine is an addictive drug that induces physical dependency in its users. combined, tobacco kills 50 percent of its us­ers, accounting for approximately six million deaths (equivalent to the entire membership of the Knights of columbus) every year. 
certainly, both these organizations are entitled to host these events; they have broken no campus laws. yet such an event must be considered a betrayal of their founding principles. clearly, such an event does speak to the Knights’ belief in “charity” and “unity,” and perhaps “fraternity” in a “hold my beer and watch this” sort of way. however, a true understanding of fraternity involves a concern for the well-being of one’s brothers; providing them with addictive drugs is no way to demonstrate this. similarly, any residence hall must put the health and welfare of its students at a very high level of priority — encouraging them to en­gage in disproportionately dangerous behavior is the exact opposite of such ideals. moreover, the university states it is deeply interested in convincing students to make healthy choices, hence the much-beloved “contemporary Topics” course that was once a fresh­man requirement but has since been rolled into The moreau First-year experience. yet, the university still chooses to promote such an event, even when it was certainly not obligated to do so. The university, for in­stance, did not promote the “die-in” memorial to eric garner in december 2014 via The week@nd. 
nor should we excuse this form of tribute to the great legacy of Father Ted merely because the man himself was known “to enjoy the occasional cigar.” Father hesburgh was certainly a man of great personal and spiritual insight, and he received many doctorates. yet among these is absent a doctorate of medicine, and for good reason — he was not medically trained. while we should celebrate the many great things he accom­plished, we should not repeat Father Ted’s mistakes. To do so is disrespectful in and of itself. 
was there no other method of raising money to support hesburgh hospital than by selling tobacco? would not a prize offered by the Knights for victory in the poker tournament have had equal motivating effect on donors? perhaps not. but as the memorial­ization of Father hesburgh through cigar smoking is increasingly appearing to be an annual event, the notre dame community is confronted with a chal­lenge. do we respect, and yet avoid, the mistakes of our greatest patriarch? or do we ignore them and bear the consequences as the health of our campus goes up in smoke? 
Stephen Raab is a senior studying chemical engineering. He resides in Alumni Hall and welcomes  discourse at sraab@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Donald Trump’s anti-Americanism 
Neil Joseph 
viewpoint columnist 

donald Trump’s slogan for his campaign this year is “make america great again.” a clear, simplistic and admittedly politically savvy slogan, it is sup­posed to define what his presidential campaign is all about. he believes our country is in shambles and needs to be brought out of this ruin with some great deals and a big, beautiful wall. he believes he will restore america to its past greatness, which barack obama (and george w. bush) have crushed. yet, when i look at his policies and all he stands for, i know he will not make america great, good or better whatsoever. rather, i see someone whose values op­pose all that america has stood for and continues to stand for today. 
as part of his plan to make america great, Trump wants to deport the millions of illegal immigrants currently in our country and build a big, beautiful wall that mexico will pay for. i agree with his idea that the country desperately needs immigration re­form; undoubtedly, our borders do need to be secure in order to keep our country safe and to preserve some sense of law. but the idea of immediately de­porting millions of people who came to america seeking a better life is directly opposed to the idea america stands for. all of the illegal immigrants came to america seeking a better life for themselves and for their families; what could be more american than that? For years, thousands and thousands of people have come here because they know it is the best place to make their lives better. we can’t be blind to the fact america is a beacon of hope and freedom to the entire world. it’s a place where people can come to have the opportunity to better themselves and shouldn’t be faulted for wanting to do that. Figuring out what to do with the millions of illegal immigrants currently here won’t be easy, but we can­not simply discount the motives behind the majority of people coming here illegally. 
Trump also unabashedly espouses the use of tor­ture and tactics such as killing the families of terror­ists in order to stop evil regimes such as isis. There is no doubt isis is a terrible thing for the world, and we must do all we can to stop innocent people from dying. but we cannot justify horrible, evil actions ourselves in the name of stopping evil. america has always been a force for good. even poor and ill-in­formed decisions such as the iraq and vietnam wars were done in the name of spreading human rights, freedom and the autonomy of each individual person. we have never stooped to the level of even the most evil people we have confronted. we didn’t resort to the racist and anti-semitic tactics of hitler or the genocidal mindset of stalin. rather, we were firm in our beliefs and trusted that in the end, goodness will prevail. we cannot compromise our democratic american values in order to stop the evil that so many perpetrate around the world. 
Finally, Trump threatens some of the most impor­tant american values: freedoms of speech, religion and the press. recently, he claimed he would open up libel laws in order to make it easier for politicians to sue and make money from prosecuting news orga­nizations for libel. This would threaten publications, preventing them (out of fear) from publishing stories the public deserves to hear. our Founding Fathers put the First amendment into the bill of rights to ensure the people were able to speak their minds and that the press wouldn’t be afraid of the government. This, along with his assertion to temporarily ban muslims, threatens the american values the founders of this country fought so vehemently to preserve. 
i don’t know if donald Trump is a total racist, bigot or sexist. he may be doing all this for publicity, and i hesitate to define someone in such terms unless i know for sure that they are. i do know, however, that his pursuit of the presidency is rooted in ideas and values that dismantle the core principles our country stands for. not only is his rhetoric divisive, but his ideas are anti-american. They fail to consider the ide­als for which america has proudly been the standard-bearer for the past 200-plus years. our values, our promotion of good and our ability to provide hope for all people has been what has made america great and will continue to make us great in the future. nothing else. 
Neil Joseph is a junior in Stanford Hall majoring in political science and economics. He welcomes all thoughts and suggestions and can be reached at  njoseph2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The american disillusion: whose life matters? 
This article is a reflection on the manslaughter con­viction of ex-nypd officer peter liang. 
on nov. 20, 2014, liang, then a rookie police of­ficer, convened with his partner, shaun landau, in the louis pink houses, one of the most dangerous housing projects in east new york. both men were on a vertical patrol, in which officers are posted on different floors in buildings simultaneously. as the two rookie officers nervously walked the unlit stairs, liang’s gun accidentally went off. The discharged bullet ricocheted off the wall and fatally struck akai gurley, a 28-year-old african-american man who happened to be walking into the stairwell with his girlfriend. 
last week, in the state supreme court in brooklyn, liang was convicted guilty on five counts: man­slaughter, official misconduct, assault, reckless endangerment and criminally negligent homicide. liang faces up to 15 years of imprisonment as a result of the accidental shooting. 
people rejoiced over liang’s conviction. indeed, as the new york daily news put it, “The shocking verdict was a powerful message from the jury that the public opinion on police killings has radically changed in the wake of eric garner, walter scott, michael brown and other tragedies around the country.” we, too, saw this as an important victory, as after all the tears, blood and black lives matter movement, justice had finally been served in the form of a conviction. we feel genuinely happy, as you may too, for the great leap forward of social justice. 
however, is this the ultimate goal of justice we want to reach? please do not misunderstand us: we do believe black lives matter and that liang and the nypd are responsible for akai gurley’s death. and it should be noted that we by no means ques­tion the court decision; after all, we are not experts in criminal law. and yet, from a political and racial standpoint, we do believe liang, a chinese american, is serving as a scapegoat in our society. we do believe that no matter what happened on the night of nov. 20, the odds are always likely to be against liang. we do believe liang, as a member of the quiet “model minority,” is paying a price for the institutional rac­ism in our legal system. he is a “selective example” to justify the unjust system and cover its racial profiling problems. 
in short, liang is just unlucky to be an asian­american cop in the nypd. you may still argue race doesn’t matter and that this is a matter of cops versus civilians. sadly, we are afraid we cannot agree, due to the status of other similar cases. we believe these cases are worth critically considering, as it is up to us as members of society to judge whether or not we truly are moving toward a higher standard of justice or toward a deeper level of institutionalized racism. 
one case is that of darren wilson. wilson remains at home, uncharged, after intentionally shooting michael brown six times in Ferguson. last year, the local police officers’ association even declared “darren wilson day” on the anniversary of the in­cident, called wilson an “innocent, but persecuted, officer” and insisted “his ethnicity had nothing to do with their support of him.” 
what about daniel pantaleo, who was not indicted by a grand jury and then allowed to work desk du­ties for nypd after choking mr. garner to death? or more infuriatingly, patrick lynch, president of the patrolmen’s benevolent association, who stood up in defense of mr. pantaleo and described him as “a model police officer whom the public does not know enough about.” pantaleo was even offered 24 hours of armed protection after receiving several death threats. Furthermore, bryan conroy was only sentenced to five years of probation and 500 hours of community service after shooting and killing an unarmed west african immigrant, who was not sus­pected of any wrongdoing. 
ironically, as pantaleo was being considered a “model,” Kizzy adonis, an african-american nypd officer who witnessed mr. garner’s death, was charged with failure to supervise last month and stripped of her gun and badge. similarly, liang was fired by nypd immediately after the incident, and he is the first nypd officer who has been put on trial and found guilty for killing a civilian in years. according to an article in the daily news, there have been 179 fatalities involving nypd on-duty police from 1999 to 2014. among these cases, only three have led to in­dictments (and just one conviction). 
we sadly conclude peter liang is the victim sac­rificed for all the past abuses in our justice system. There are not one but two victims behind the tragedy of akai gurley’s death. behind hundreds of similar cases of police killings, murderers were left unpun­ished while the real victims’ grievances and protests went unheard. as the shocking verdict reached Facebook and sparked heated discussions, someone commented, “if liang were white, the result would very likely be different. but he is chinese, so no one stands up for him.” Therefore, we decided to write this article and no longer remain the silent minority. we stand up, not just for all previous victims, but also for real justice in our society. 
Yuchen Zou 
sophomore 
Lan Jiang 
junior Feb. 21 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


PERSONAL 

LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
I knew she’d find a way to get over me. But I’d never thought that she would get down with some­body I know. I guess that’s just how it goes. When 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: your sincerity and helpful input will offer freedom to explore new possibilities and projects that fit your personality and creative skills. Financial benefits will come from an unusual source. Take on any challenge you face this year, and you will gain confidence and prove your ability to take care of whatever comes your way. Trust in yourself and you won’t be disappointed. your numbers are 8, 15, 21, 27, 34, 44, 47. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): be secretive about your finances and your whereabouts. don’t feel pressured to make a move prematurely. stay put, keep busy and avoid giving anyone an indication as to what your next move will be. romance is featured. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t pay attention to negative people. opt to be the one who brings life and energy into a room. positive energy will help boost your popularity and could also make others recognize that offering solutions instead of criticism will bring everyone better results. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): peer pressure can be difficult to resist, but if you put your heart into doing a stellar job, you will advance. put greater emphasis on mental and physical self-improvement and you will gain confidence and clout. love looks promising. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): an opportunity is within your reach, but you have to do your part. now is the time to explore your dreams and to let your imagination take you on an adventure. your intuition will not let you down. believe in yourself. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): you can make personal changes, but try not to cause discord at home. subtle moves will be far less difficult to achieve. The realization of what you want will help to stabilize your life. romance will improve your mindset. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): listen to what others have to say. it’s in your best interest to research and come up with incredibly unique solutions. your ability to masterfully present all the information you gather will enhance your popularity. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): prioritize your to-do list and get started. your enthusiasm will rub off on others. socializing with people who share your skills or who work in an industry similar to yours will lead to inside information. romance is on the rise. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): don’t be fooled by someone’s hospitality. ulterior motives are apparent. Take it upon yourself to venture down a path that doesn’t require outside support, and you will avoid incurring debt or being put in a vulnerable position. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen carefully and share only what is necessary to get what you need or want. don’t believe hearsay or get drawn into a situation that will be costly or permissive. live within your means and promise only what you know you can deliver. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take old ideas or items and recycle them to suit your current needs. incorporating your ideas into your daily routine will save money, time and space. refuse to let someone’s unpredictability interfere with your plans. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): weigh the pros and cons of whatever situation you face. listen to suggestions and show concern for those around you who are struggling. your compassionate attitude will help ward off someone looking for an argument. choose positive suggestions over criticism. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): uncertainty will be the enemy. gather information and formulate a plan that will help you get what you want. don’t let anger take over, which could make you difficult to get along with. a well-thought-out solution presented amicably will suffice. 

Birthday Baby: you are sensitive, relentless and passionate. you are protective and possessive. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
you break up in a small town. I see our friends and they put on a show like they don’t want me to know. So they give me the go-around. But there’s only so many streets, so many lights. I swear it’s like I can’t even leave my house. I should’ve known all along. You gotta move or move on when you break up in a small town. For a while I guess they were keeping it low-key. 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | The observer 
SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Younger stars alter landscape 

Daniel O’Boyle 
sports writer 
on sunday, manchester united forward marcus rashford scored twice in a premier league game against arsenal. This came just days after scoring twice in a europa league game against Fc midtjylland. 
This made me unhappy. not because i hate man united and he helped them to a vic­tory (i do, but i dislike arsenal as well. i have a lot of hate for a lot of soccer teams), but because rashford is two years and three months younger than me. it gave me a bit of a midlife crisis. 
like most boys growing up in northern ireland, i wanted to be a professional soccer player when i grew up. i want­ed to be like george best, the exciting belfast-born winger of the 1960s with a famously extravagant lifestyle. best had played over 150 games by my age. gradually, i’m having to accept that my chances of making it in professional soc­cer are getting less and less likely. my support of an ad­mittedly not very good team in reading Fc allowed me to keep my hopes of playing with my heroes alive just a little bit longer, but with virtually no athleticism and nowhere near enough skill to make up for it, i may have to now accept that my chances of a professional sports career appear to be vir­tually zero. i sometimes keep a faint glimmer of hope — my reputation is apparently great enough for me to be selected for the alumni hall “b” soccer team without even showing up to tryouts (although i be­lieve everyone who signed up made the squad) — but it ap­pears my chances are gone. 
but that’s something i’ve had plenty of time to come to terms with. gradually, more and more of my sporting he­roes are close to my age: it’s hard to imagine being in their world when you’re getting up early to watch a low-quality stream of them playing. 
it goes far beyond soccer, too. we’re right in the middle of draft-anticipation season. at the end of april in chicago, someone will be drafted and become the first-ever nFl player younger than me. i never really believed in my chances of making it in the nFl, but i can’t shake how strange it’ll be that there could be players in the next game i watch who will be younger than i am. espn might not announce that stat, but it’ll be on my mind. The 2015 nba draft brought in plenty of players younger than me, and the likes of Karl­anthony Towns have been having great seasons. 
it’s even more apparent in college football or basketball. sometimes it’s easy to forget these guys are my age, maybe even younger. but every play­er is in their teens or early 20s (with the possible exception of Kansas forward perry ellis, who i maintain is definitely old enough to be my dad. look at him.). even if you’re watch­ing students you’ve shared a class with, it can be easy to forget that they’re no longer grown-ups like you once saw them. They’re basically kids. 
even more terrifying, a player’s entire career could flame out by my age. Federico macheda made a name for himself as an 18-year-old manchester united forward, too, and disappeared from view in the soccer world just as quickly. someone in the 2016 nFl draft will be a major bust and find their best years behind them in their early 20s. 
usually, this column makes a bit more of a point about something in the sports world. There’s definitely something you can take from this fact: maybe that we should remember so many athletes are essentially kids and understand their lack of maturity, but right now, i’m just a little freaked out by it all. 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at  doboyle1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


ND SOFTBALL | diamond 9 ciTrus classic 
notre dame wins all five games at citrus classic 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame had a memorable weekend, winning all five games it played in diamond 9 citrus classic at the espn wide world of sports complex in Kissimmee, Florida. 
The busy weekend for the no. 23 irish (12-3) began Friday af­ternoon with an 8-0 shutout win over east carolina. The irish were led by junior centerfielder Karley wester, who was 3-for-3 in the game and scored two runs. The underclassmen were not far behind, however, as fresh­man pitcher caitlyn brooks went 1-for-3 with two rbis, and fresh­man second baseman ali wester and sophomore left fielder bailey bigler both went 1-for-3. senior pitcher allie rhodes picked up her fourth win of the year after pitching six complete innings, striking out 10 batters and sur­rendering three hits. 
later on that day, notre dame beat no. 22 central Florida, 5-1. Karley wester went 2-for-4 and scored a run, while ali wester went 3-for-4, driving in two runs and scoring another. Freshman third baseman melissa rochford went 1-for-2 with one rbi. Freshman catcher maddie mccracken also chipped in a hit and scored a run. Junior pitcher rachel nasland picked up her third win of the year after pitch­ing five complete innings, strik­ing out five batters and giving up only four hits. sophomore Katie beriont pitched two complete in­nings in relief and struck out two batters while giving up only one hit. The win over central Florida (7-8) was notre dame head coach deanna gumpf’s 600th career victory. 
The irish beat north Florida on saturday morning, 7-3. rochford went 2-for-3 with three rbis, while Karley wester went 2-for-4, driving in a run and scoring one of her own. ali wester went 3-for­4 and scored two runs, while senior first baseman micaela arizmendi went 2-for-4, drove in a run and scored one of her own. senior second baseman carly piccinich went 2-for-3 with one rbi, and sophomore shortstop morgan reed went 1-for-3 with one run batted in. rhodes re­corded the win after pitching 5 and 2/3 innings, striking out nine batters and giving up four hits. 
later in the day, the irish shut out bryant, 7-0. brooks finished the game 2-for-3 with two rbis and scored a run of her own. ali wester again had a solid showing as she finished 2-for-3 with one rbi and one run scored. other strong irish performances includ­ed arizmendi, who went 2-for-4 with one rbi, and rochford, who went 2-for-2. beriont recorded the win, her second of the season af­ter pitching a complete game and giving up only one hit. 
notre dame completed the weekend sweep by beating penn state on sunday morning, 6-2. The irish trailed 2-1 after the third inning, but they scored five straight runs in the next three innings and never relinquished the lead. leading the irish were the wester sisters, who each went 2-for-4 and scored one run apiece. brooks went 1-for-4 while collecting two rbis, and senior right fielder megan sorlie went 2-for-3 and scored two runs. bigler went 2-for-3 while driving in two runs and scoring another. nasland earned the win after pitching four complete innings and striking out two batters. rhodes pitched three complete relief innings and struck out two batters to give the irish an unde­feated weekend. 
This weekend, notre dame will play in the Florida gulf coast round robin Tournament in Fort myers, Florida. The irish are scheduled to play stony brook, Florida gulf coast and ball state. 

MEN’S TENNIS | ohio sTaTe 5, nd 2 
Irish drop home match to No. 3 Buckeyes 
By TONY ZAPPIA 
sports writer 
notre dame put forth a strong effort against no. 3 ohio state on sunday at eck Tennis pavilion but ultimately fell to the buckeyes by a final score of 5-2. 
The irish (6-6) started strong, claiming the doubles point after winning two of the three matches. The first victory came as the pair­ing of freshman grayson broadus and senior Quentin monaghan won three games in a row at the no. 2 court to seal a 6-2 victory over ohio state redshirt junior ralf steinbach and freshman martin Joyce. The duo of junior eddy covalschi and senior alex lawson then mounted a come­back in the top flight but fell short as buckeyes sophomore mikhail Torpegaard and junior herkko pollanen held serve for a 6-4 win for ohio state. Junior Josh hagar and senior eric schnurrenberger ultimately sealed the doubles point for notre dame, staving off a comeback from ohio state’s duo of redshirt freshman hugo di Feo and redshirt senior chris diaz to win, 6-3. 
as the singles matches got un­derway, Torpegaard, the sixth-ranked singles player in the country, proved to be too much for monaghan, winning on the top court, 6-1, 6-2. pollanen then defeated schnurrenberger, 6-4, 6-2, to give the buckeyes (14-1) their first lead of the day. lawson was able to mount a comeback to defeat diaz, 0-6, 6-2, 6-2, giving the irish their only singles vic­tory of the match. however, di Feo then bested covalschi, 6-4, 6-3, and ohio state sealed the vic­tory as broadus fell to Joyce, 6-3, 4-6, 6-0, in a matchup of talented freshmen. The buckeyes ended the match by adding to their margin of victory as hagar fell to steinbach in a back-and-forth battle, 2-6, 6-4, 7-5. 
despite the loss, irish head coach ryan sachire said he was pleased with the way his team hung with a challenging opponent. 
“i think a goal of ours is always to be competitive, to play our best at all nine spots in all six singles matches and all three doubles matches, and i thought we did that today,” sachire said. “our guys left it all on the line. They went after it. ohio state was just a little bit too good [sunday]. we tip our cap to them. They’re a great team, and it gives us a direction for where we need to improve our tennis going forward.” 
sachire said he knows there are ways in which the irish must im­prove headed into acc play, but he is confident the irish can build on recent performances to im­prove individually and as a team. 
“From a team perspective, i think three of the last four match­es, including this one, we’ve played the right way, competed the right way, and i think we’ll continue to build on that and get better in those areas,” sachire said. “From a game perspective, a skills perspective, that’s pretty different for each guy. we’ll work on those this week and get ready for [boston college] on Thursday.” 
notre dame begins acc play on the road against boston college on Thursday before re­turning home to face louisville on sunday. 
Contact Tony Zappia at  azappia@nd.edu 


Track 
conTinued From page 12 
were loading up and trying to win the meet,” Turner said. “anyone who could possibly score a point in an event, we entered them in it. several of our top athletes were entered in more than one individual event. my expectation was to put us in the best position to win the women’s acc team title; we did that, just came up a little bit short of pulling out the win.” 
The weekend concluded with several impressive perfor­mances on both the men’s and the women’s sides. defending 10,000-meter national champi­on molly seidel broke the acc all-time record in the women’s 5,000-meter race with a time of 15:19.64 and broke the acc­meet record in the 3,000-meter race the next day. irish fresh­man anna rohrer took second place in both events, and the two led the team by earning 36 of the total 82 points. 
“molly seidel’s performanc­es have almost become com­monplace, so that wasn’t a surprise,” Turner said. “we knew she would win the [3,000 meters] and [5,000 meter] races, but putting up the no. 4 women’s indoor [five kilome­ter] performance in collegiate history was huge and breaking the acc meet record and acc all-time record.” 
Turner said he was also proud of rohrer and predicted her having a bright future at notre dame. 

“in any other year, anna rohrer would be the talk of the conference,” Turner said. “what she has done as a fresh­man is incredible. anna is one the ncaa elites, and she will, if she remains healthy throughout her collegiate ca­reer, become our most deco­rated track and cross country athlete.” 
Turner attributed rohrer’s standout performances to the work of distance coach matt sparks. 
“[sparks] has done a tre­mendous job with them this year, making sure they are well trained, healthy and ready to put up championship perfor­mances when it matters the most,” Turner said. 
on the men’s side, junior pole vaulter nathan richartz and freshman high jumper matthew birzer each beat out highly ranked competitors to finish the weekend with richartz in first place and birzer in second in their re­spective events. 
“nate richartz in the pole vault broke our school record and won the acc title over several virginia Tech vault­ers who were ranked ahead of him,” Turner said. “he went 17-11 [5.46 meters] and had several good attempts at 18-1. hopefully he’ll get that 18-footer at the ncaa cham­pionships and come back an all-american.” 
birzer was projected to fin­ish eighth in the high jump but ended the meet in second place with a personal best of 2.10 meters. Turner said birzer’s underdog mindset helped him pull out the second place showing. 
“he was in the zone, emo­tionally and physically, and just put it all together at the right time,” Turner said. “he trusted his training and just went out there and competed. he wasn’t highly ranked, and he had nothing to lose, with no pressure. his performance actually spurred our men’s team on. The men’s high jump was the first individual event on Friday during most of the preliminaries, and our team saw how well this unheralded freshman did, and it inspired [them].” 
looking towards the future, Turner is optimistic about the team’s prospects as it enters the outdoor season. 
“we are a very good team, especially the women,” Turner said. “The acc is ranked the no. 2 conference for wom­en’s track & field, and we just missed winning it by a very thin margin. one more inch here or there or a place here or there in an event, and we win the title. The women have been on the verge of winning an acc title the last couple of years. we will again be hungry to get the acc title at the out­door championships in may. what can be learned from the meet, is what i emphasized to the team right before the meet, that every point counts and that everyone contributes to the team success.” 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 


Fencing 
conTinued From page 12 
in addition to winning the women’s team title saturday, notre dame boasted winners in all three individual men’s titles: Freshman axel Kiefer won in foil, freshman dylan French took the epee title, and sophomore Jonah shainberg won the sabre. both Kiefer and shainberg faced teammates in the championship rounds of their re­spective competitions, a trend that continued throughout the week­end for notre dame. in the sabre championship, shainberg defeat­ed sophomore teammate Jonathan Fitzgerald, 15-12, while Kiefer beat junior teammate Kristjan archer in a 15-7 win. 
“That’s the easiest thing because you don’t coach,” Kvaratskhelia said of watching his players com­pete against each other. “you just go grab a glass of water and enjoy the good fencing without getting all riled up.” 
The irish continued their win­ning ways during sunday’s events, which featured the women’s in­dividual championships and the men’s team contest. 
in the men’s team competition, notre dame began the day with a 23-4 victory over boston college. Just as the women had done the day before, the irish then defeated north carolina and duke soundly, this time by matching scores of 19-8. 
of the three women’s individual competitions sunday, the irish picked up two crowns in foil and epee. senior catherine lee picked up the epee title by beating boston college senior olivia adranga, 15-11, while freshman sabrina massialas defeated freshman teammate elyssa Kleiner, 15-12, for the foil crown. in notre dame’s only championship loss of the weekend, freshman Tara hassett fell to duke sophomore Jennifer ling in the sabre championship, 15-12. 
Kvaratskhelia said he was partic­ularly proud of the performances of his youngest and oldest fencers at the championships. 
“win or lose, i cannot single out right now,” Kvaratskhelia said. “our freshmen and seniors were huge — the freshman because it was their first time doing this and our seniors because they were just outstanding.” 
notre dame will now have two weeks without a competition be­fore beginning the next step of their postseason, the ncaa mid-west regional. 
“That is a completely new com­petition,” Kvaratskhelia said of the upcoming regional. “we’re going to completely reset and retool and get ready for that particular com­petition. The difference is they have to again fence again each other to qualify, and that will be heartbreaking for them.” 
The ncaa midwest regional will take place in the French Field house on ohio state’s campus in columbus, ohio. 
Following the regional, the irish will try to take part in the ncaa championships in waltham, massachusetts, at the end of march. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu 

paid adverTisemenT ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | The observer 



Baseball 
conTinued From page 12 
exceptional.” 
no rally was needed saturday, as irish hitters pounced on incarnate word in the first in­ning, scoring four runs to stake a lead notre dame would not relinquish. nine different play­ers combined for 15 hits, while sophomore left-hander sean guenther went 7 1/3 innings, surrendering just four hits and one earned run. 
senior ricky sanchez went 3-for-4 with a run and rbi against incarnate word, while also catching all nine innings in place of injured junior ryan lidge. in fact, sanchez caught every single inning of the four games over the weekend, his most work behind the plate in his career at notre dame, aoki said. 
but the added workload didn’t slow sanchez down. he battled opposing pitchers all weekend long, aoki said, and that toughness at the plate paid off when he singled on a 3-2 count in the bottom of the ninth against gonzaga to give his team the 7-6 win. over the tournament’s four games, he hit .412 with three rbis and five runs scored. 
“ricky is a very talented of­fensive player, and he has struggled at time for whatever reason, but he has a very ma­ture approach to the plate this year, and although it’s a very young season, he’s been able to shorten his swing, especially with two strikes,” aoki said. “in the first inning of the gonzaga game, i think he had a nine- or 10-pitch at-bat. 
“ … in previous years, ricky wasn’t able to execute consis­tently, and the maturity he has had at the plate has allowed him to maximize the consider­able amount of talent he has.” 
even in the very first game of the classic, in which the irish fell to bradley, 4-3, sanchez posted an rbi and run scored off one hit. 
however, that offense was part of a three-run eighth that was not enough to support a strong outing from irish junior right-hander ryan smoyer, who held the braves scoreless through five innings and fin­ished with a quality start of 6 1/3 innings and two earned runs. bradley junior right-hander matt dennis kept the irish hitters handcuffed for 


seven innings, allowing just  cary, north carolina, for the  saturday  and  niagara  on  
four baserunners and striking  usa baseball-irish classic this  sunday.  
out 10.  weekend. The  irish will play  
winners of three straight,  alabama on Friday, brown and  Contact Greg Hadley at   
notre dame will next travel to  bucknell  in  a  doubleheader  ghadley@nd.edu  

Suddes 
conTinued From page 12 
“he just got an association with the program, it’s just an outstand­ing program,” mike suddes said. “it was extremely physically chal­lenging, the vast majority of guys that fight — and the women that fight in the baraka bouts — have very little or no experience in box­ing before they come here. it’s a club sport; somehow a roommate or someone else in the dorm says you should come out and do it, and the next thing you know, guys are doing exactly what you saw out there. 
“and if you want to see why this sport is unique and why this pro­gram is unique even within the sport, watch the way these guys hug after a fight. it’s pretty sincere. Tom and i sparred together for many, many years; obviously box­ing is a full-contact sport, and the relationships you develop within the bengal bouts program, you’re hugging guys you haven’t seen for 15 years: he may have blood­ied my nose 20 years ago, i don’t know. it’s an interesting program. and it’s a worthwhile program be­cause every year all the proceeds get sent to the holy cross missions down in bangladesh. when i was here in 1973, we donated about $15,000, and now i think last year, they donated $125,000, or at least $100,000. it’s been a good program 
— probably close to a million dol­lars have been donated to the pro­gram, where a dollar goes a long way towards food, education and things like that. it’s a worthwhile program, and it’s a great program to be associated with.” 
Terry Johnson, another long­time notre dame boxing coach, said he was inspired by suddes to stay involved with the program as well. 
“i first met Tom suddes when i was a freshman at notre dame starting at the boxing program, and he was a senior captain,” Johnson said. “so he was kind of our idol. That was 45 years ago. he then came back and became a boxing coach, i went to law school, and we kind of starting this avoca­tion of trying to help out with the bengal bouts. so for the last 45 years, we’ve been down here to­gether, and he’s just been such an inspiration and such a great guy.” 
suddes’ illness may have made him unable to continue coaching, but he remains a popular figure with current and former boxers, with many excited to see him after the fights. 
mike suddes said Tom’s status among the boxers is best reflected in an anecdote from his senior year. 
“he’s had some great positive memories as far as the fights, the relationships, and things like that,” mike suddes said. “when he was a senior, i was a sophomore, and in the semifinal fight, he fought a fel­low named dave pemberton, and Tom won the fight. but in doing so, his left eye was black and blue and completely closed. but it was also that time when we had the 45th anniversary of the bengal bouts, so we had a banquet in the mono­gram room, [dominic napolitano] and different members of the fac­ulty and staff, a lot of faculty and a lot of alumni, and Tom was the president of the club. so Tom was the emcee of the night with one eye closed. and then he fought two nights later, and he lost in the final. 
That was a very memorable, gutsy presentation, and he did a good job.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S TENNIS | nd 4, bosTon college 3; syracuse 4, nd 3 
Irish split pair of road conference matches 
Observer Staff Report 
notre dame split two acc matches over the weekend, de­feating boston college 4-3 on the road Friday before falling at syracuse, 4-3, on sunday. 
The irish (8-4, 3-1 acc) got off to a slow start Friday, dropping the doubles point to the eagles (5-6, 0-4) to open the contest. senior Quinn gleason and ju­nior monica robinson fell 6-3 at no. 1 doubles to put the irish behind before junior mary closs and senior Julie vrabel dropped a 6-4 decision on the second court, handing boston college the early advantage. 
when closs and sophomore brooke broda won the first two singles matches to finish at the nos. 4 and 5 flights, the irish pulled ahead 2-1, but their advantage was short-lived. eagles sophomore lexi borr took down gleason 6-3, 6-2 on the top court to level proceed­ings before eagles junior emily safron defeated sophomore allison miller in three sets on the third court to put notre dame on the brink of defeat. 
The irish rallied, however, as robinson and Fennelly took three-set victories in the last two matches of the day to keep their team perfect in confer­ence play. 
That changed sunday, though, as syracuse (8-1, 2-1) turned the tables on notre dame late in the orange victory. 
like they did in Friday’s win, the irish fell behind early after dropping the doubles point; closs and vrabel earned a 6-1 win to put notre dame ahead early, but losses on the nos. 1 and 3 courts dug them into an early hole. 
syracuse freshman maria Tritou topped closs 6-3, 6-2 to extend the hosts’ lead to 2-0, but successive victories from robinson, broda and miller gave notre dame a 3-2 lead, just needing one more win to stay unbeaten in league play. 
but it didn’t come, as wins by orange freshman dina hegab and graduate student anna shkudun on the sixth and first courts sealed the victory for the hosts. 
notre dame returns to action sunday when it visits miami (Fla.) for an acc match be­fore heading to puerto rico for games with east carolina and liu brooklyn. 



The observer | TUESDAY, MARCH 1, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
BASEBALL | bradley 4, nd 3; nd 6, TeXas souThern 5; nd 13, incarnaTe word 2; nd 7, gonZaga 6 
ND wins Alamo Irish Classic 
By GREG HADLEY 
senior sports writer 
as evening began to fall last Friday in san antonio, it looked as though notre dame’s slow start to the 2016 season would continue. 
losers of three straight, the irish were trailing Texas southern, 5-2, heading into the bottom of the ninth. if they dropped the game against the Tigers, they would have no chance of defending their alamo irish classic title from 2015. 
Two walk-off hits and 24 runs later, notre dame (4-3) finished off the weekend with a flourish, defending its crown and build­ing a three-game win streak heading into spring break. 
“it’s always nice to win a tournament that you’re host­ing,” irish head coach mik aoki said. “The thing we try to em­phasize is that if you take care of the little things and control the things you can control, we feel we’re a talented enough team that we’ll be able to com­pete at a high level.” 
Those little things piled up at the plate for the irish, who scored four in the ninth against Texas southern to claim a walk-off win and then did almost the exact same thing two days later against gonzaga to finish off the tournament. in between those two results, notre dame’s bats exploded in a 13-2 win over incarnate word on saturday. 
The key, aoki said, was pa­tience and resiliency. 
“First and foremost, i was most pleased with the energy and engagement level of our team, in particular, the play­ers that weren’t playing,” he said. “That was able to keep us grounded in the moment and worrying about doing the little things to keep it going.” 
against Texas southern, the irish did not have any one par­ticular big at-bat but instead piled on five hits and took ad­vantage of two passed balls to rally. Freshman designated hit­ter connor stutts had the lon­gest hit of the comeback with a triple that tied the game, and freshman pinch runner cole daily came around to score when sophomore outfielder Jake Johnson slapped a single into right field to end the game. 
“we had a bigger hole to dig out off against Texas southern,” aoki said. “we stayed confident and … showed a little tough­ness, and i thought it was 
see baseball PAGE 11 


TRACK & FIELD 
irish compete at accs 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
notre dame placed third in the women’s competition and seventh in the men’s competi­tion at the acc indoor cham­pionships this past weekend in boston. 
irish head coach alan Turner said the results matched his ex­pectations for the meet. 
“For the men, we traveled a squad of 16 men,” Turner said. “we do not have the depth as in the past, and we had a handful of injured athletes, so we knew that we couldn’t contend for a team title. The focus was hav­ing the guys at the meet focus on their main event, meaning i didn’t enter them in multiple individual events, and score as high as they could.” 
The women’s team took a more aggressive approach to the meet, according to Turner, entering its top runners in sev­eral events. 
“on the women’s side, we 
see TracK PAGE 10 

FENCING | acc championships 
notre dame sweeps conference titles at home 
By RYAN KLAUS 

sports writer  
notre dame added to its suc­ 
cessful season over the weekend at  
the acc championships, as both  
the irish men and women went  
3-0 to claim conference titles on  
campus at the castellan Family  
Fencing center.  
“The crowds and friends were  
fantastic,” irish head coach gia  
Kvaratskhelia said. “you always  
give more to show them how hard  
you work.”  
The event began saturday with  
the men’s individual champion­ 
ship and the women’s team cham­ 
pionship tournaments.  
The no. 2 notre dame women  
started team competition with a  
21-6 win over boston college be­ 
fore beating both duke and north  
carolina handedly with equiva­ 
lent 20-7 final scores to pick up the  
team crown, as notre dame to de­ 
fend its title from last season, when  
the irish won both team events in  
chapel hill, north carolina.  EMMET FARNAN | The Observer  
Sophomore foil Virgile Collineau lunges toward his opponent the ACC  
see Fencing PAGE 10  championships at Castellan Family Fencing Center on Sunday.  

BENGAL BOUTS 
Suddes embodies message of Bouts 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE  
sports writer 
over the 86 years of the bengal bouts program, count­less notre dame students have trained for months to fight. For many, it has sent them halfway across the world to visit bangladesh, where the proceeds from the annual com­petition go to help holy cross missions. For Tom suddes, who was honored during sunday’s finals, the bouts sent him back to notre dame, every year, as a coach, trainer and referee. 
suddes received an honorary monogram for his work with the program in 2014, but just months later, he was diagnosed with als. suddes is no longer able to coach, but he was able to attend the bouts once more this year to be recognized for his commitment to the program. 
suddes’ story with the pro­gram started, like many notre dame students, in his freshman year. his brother, mike, said his devotion to the program was clear from his time as a student. 
“Tom was a freshman here in september of 1967,” mike suddes said. “how he got in­troduced, i don’t know, but he started working with the nov­ice program as a freshman, and then he fought in the bengal bouts as a freshman, and he fought all four years. he was the president of the club his fourth year, and he won two champi­onships, in his sophomore and his junior year.” 
after two years in the u.s. army, suddes returned to notre dame to work in the de­velopment office and returned to the program he cherished as a student. when he left south bend to found a fundraising company, he could have been forgiven for leaving the pro­gram, but each year, without fail, suddes returned to coach the boxers. mike suddes said the camaraderie and charity of the bouts always ensured Tom would stay connected. 
see suddes PAGE 11 




