The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 77 | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
California mayor addresses students 
Activist-turned-politician shares experiences campaigning and calls for student action 
By JENNA WILSON 
news writer 
notre dame alumna lindsey horvath has been called to do many things since her gradua­tion from the university in 2004. horvath, who spoke at geddes hall on monday, has been an activist, an advertising execu­tive and, now, a mayor over the course of her professional career. 
“you never know when you’re going to be called up to do the thing you’re meant to do,” she said. “but trust me, you’re ready to do the thing you are meant to do, no matter when you’re called to do it.” 
The rooney center for the study of american democracy, the gender studies program and nd votes 2016 sponsored the lecture, titled “From walsh hall to city hall.” 
see acTivism PAGE 3 



SMC SENATE 


Group discusses student government bylaws 
By MEGAN UEKERT 
news writer 
on monday evening, the first saint mary’s senate meeting of the semester was held in rice commons to dis­cuss changes to the student the new food chair. 
“i wanted to get involved with sga last year, but i was too busy,” opra said. “when i came back from studying abroad this spring and they had an opening, i thought it was perfect.” 
attendance. 
“i would want the mis­sion committee to take over [the navy social] because it does tie in the tradition of the college with the tradi­tion between the navy and 


nd professors named to ‘highly cited’ rankings 
Observer Staff Report 
university faculty mem­bers from the mendoza college of business, the college of science and the 


government 
association opra said her responsi­
(sga) bylaws. bilities include attending 
The meeting began with senate meetings, voting 
a 
prayer by sga secretary on different motions and 
lauren lindbloom. student serving on the Finance college of engineering 
were included in the 2015 
Thomson reuters’ highly 
cited researchers list, a 
Jan. 21 release stated on 
notre dame’s news website. 
“The list identifies the 



body president kaitlyn committee to approve club 
funding. 
The first topic of discus­sion was the navy social, our sisters,” mccarthy said. held after the navy football “adding the navy social un­top 1 percent of the almost 9 million scholars and sci­entists who publish their 

game. emma mccarthy,  der the mission chair would  academic findings every  ject fields of study, ranging  
the sga mission co-chair,  save the future planner a  year, accounting for more  from chemistry to social  
said the event was a collab­ huge headache.”  than 2 million journal pa- sciences.”  
orative effort between sga,  The senate also discussed  pers,” the release stated.  in the college of  
student activities board, the  the possibility of eliminat­ “each year the list includes  engineering, bertrand  



Bill passes state house 

Observer Staff Report 
The indiana house of representatives unani­mously passed a bill to change state law to require private university police departments to disclose re­cords related to arrests or incarcerations. 
The bill was approved by a 95-to-0 vote during last Thursday’s session. it will now move to the indiana senate for consideration. 
state rep. patrick bauer (d-south bend), co-author of the bill, said in a previous 
see bill PAGE 4 

by other researchers. it is compiled from two sepa­rate Thomson reuters studies that have been ana­lyzed for publication and citation data from 22 sub-
baker welcomed two new residence hall association ing the First year concerns 
more than 3,000 scien-hochwald is the Frank 
sophomore senators, marilla and the class of 2017. position. baker said the 
tists around the world who m. Freimann professor of 
more malia hosoi-gallucci, and 100 midshipmen were in see senaTe PAGE 4 
cited the most frequently see research PAGE 4 

news PAGE 3 scene PAGE 5 viewpoinT PAGE 6 waking The echoes PAGE 12 men’s Tennis PAGE 12 




ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley Managing Editor  Business Manager
                      Jack rooney cristina gutierrez Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 

Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu,  wlin4@nd.edu 

Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 

Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 

Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 

Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 

Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 

Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 


Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 



QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
What should the new dorms’ mascots be? 

Sam Collins 
sophomore 
stanford hall 
“The donuts and the dragons.” 

Rachel Oberst 
sophomore 
ryan hall 
“The unicorns and the bananas.” 

Pat Hosinski 
junior 
Zahm house 
“alpacas and platypuses.” 



Emily Nour 
sophomore 
walsh hall 

“dolphins and sea horses.” 

Julia Szromba 
sophomore 

breen-phillips hall 
“Team edward and cupcakes.” 

Katie Mackin 
sophomore 

breen-phillips hall 
“The katies and the mackins.” 
CHRIS COLLINS | The Observer 

Notre Dame students line up to devour the rare, but popular fajitas at North Dining Hall on Monday evening. Fajita night was an exclusive specialty of North Dining Hall until November 2012, when South Dining Hall hosted its first fajita night. 


Want your event included here? 

News Sports 
katie galioto alex carson Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 




THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

Jp gschwind marek mazcerk Jenna wilson maureen schweninger 
Graphics Scene 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
eric richelsen miko malabute 
Photo Viewpoint 

Duncan Donut Mass Blood Drive Mindful Meditation Lecture: “Centuries Benefit Dinner for 
caitlyn Jordan austin Taliaferro 
St. Walter Chapel, Rolfs Sports Coleman-Morse of Shakespeare” Christian Refugees Duncan Hall Recreation Center Center Hesburgh Library Remick Commons 9 p.m.-10 p.m. 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 4 p.m-5 p.m. 7 p.m-9 p.m. 
Corrections 

Mass followed by Eat a healthy meal All students, faculty Michael Witmore will Funds raised for 
The observer regards itself as donuts and beverages. before donating. and staff may attend. present. persecuted Christians a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Grant Proposal “The Life of Jesus: “Iron Sharpens Iron” Graduate Student 27th Annual Student 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Workshop Christ for the Curious” Christian Fellowship Mass Film Festival 
however, recognize that we will make 
Brownson Hall Coleman-Morse Coleman-Morse Basilica of the Sacred DeBartolo Performing 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
4 p.m.-5 p.m. Center Center Heart Arts Center 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
Learn how to craft a 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 10 p.m.-11:30 p.m. 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 6:30 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. 
we can correct our error. 

compelling proposal. In the St. Andre room. Student-led worship. Seating will be reserved. Student-produced films. 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | The observer 

Unity Games promote community and diversity 
By JP GSCHWIND 
news writer 
on monday night in the laFortune student center ballroom, the unity games held its second event in a week long series of competitions designed to bring together the notre dame community by encouraging stu­dent from different kinds of back­grounds to get to know each other. 
sponsored by the mcdonald center for student well-being, the second night of the unity games was focused on a minute to win it competition. 
mcdonald center health edu­team,” hoffman said. 
prizes will be awarded, hoffman said, but the nature of the games is fairly silly and fun to play. 
“we’ve got everything from stacking donuts on your forehead to playing office tennis with clip­boards.” hoffman said. 
senior brianna prusakowski serves as a Thrive peer educator for the mcdonald center and said 
“Tonight we’re hoping to bring people from different parts of 

“Tonight we’re hoping to bring people from different parts of life and aspects of notre dame and enjoy a fun time together,” merriweather said. 
merriweather said the prizes and incentives help encourage students to show up. 
“you’re getting food every night, there’s fun games to play, and you’re meeting new people,” merriweather said. 
ashley lunford, the multicultural student programs and services’s assistant director for programming, said she played a major role in organizing the unity games and believes they 
Activism 
conTinued From page 1 
“i am here to share with you that a degree in the arts and letters program is profitable. but more importantly, you can use that degree to make a dif­ference,” horvath said. “i had opportunities here that i would have never had anywhere. here, we were able to talk about different issues, not only from an academic perspective, but from a values perspective. They really helped me understand how the lessons i was learning in the classroom can be applied to my real life.” 
after graduating from notre dame with a b.a. in political science and gender studies, horvath worked in the enter­tainment advertising industry. 
where i was going. my friend, the mayor, came to me saying ‘i’m not going to seek re-elec­tion,’ and i worried because she was the only woman on the city council. so i asked her, ‘who is going to run?’ and she said, ‘you are.’” 
horvath said her friend’s en­couragement prompted her to once again run for city coun­
cil. The west hollywood city council elects its mayor, and on march 3, the same night horvath was elected onto city council, she officially became the mayor of west hollywood. 
horvath said her policy fo­cuses on helping the most marginalized sections of soci­ety, including lgbT homeless teens. she prides herself on bringing what she calls “new ways of thinking” to the politi­cal community. 
“Throughout that process, i came from someone who was cator bridget hoffman said the 


offer a way for a variety of notre 
life and aspects of 
night was great way to get stu­dame students to get to know outright rejected, to some­

one who was embraced by the 
community,” horvath said. 
“statistically, it’s proven that 
women needed to be asked 
about nine times before they 
consider running for office. 
Notre Dame and 
dents involved and exposed to the 
resources and information of the each other and bond 
enjoy a fun time 

“i’m super excited for the games 
mcdonald center, which was re-

together.” and i’m hoping more and more 
cently created in 2014. 

people show up as the games 
William Dean Merriweather III 
according to the center’s web­
site, its main goal is to “provide continue. 
sophomore 

lunford said the mission of 
prevention, intervention, and education programs and coordi­nates assessment activities that support the health of notre dame students.” 
hoffman said monday night’s games are intended to be a easy way for students to get to know each other. 
“minute to win it is based off the popular Tv show and we’ve got eight challenges that the stu­dents are going to go through as students will find the minute to win it style games very engaging. 
“i helped create them earlier today and they should be pret­ty hilarious and entertaining,” prusakowski said. 
sophomore william dean merriweather iii is also a Thrive peer educator and said he values the goals of the unity games and how they try to strengthen the notre dame community. 
paid adverTisemenT 

the unity games aligns with the broader goals of the university to bring students together. 
“it should be really cool oppor­tunity for diverse groups of people to come get together, people who don’t normally hang out together and here they can get to know each other and compete together,” lunford said. 
Contact JP Gschwind at  jgschwin@nd.edu 
“i was worried that i was con­tributing to the kind of culture we always discussed in my gen­der studies classes,” she said. “i was worried that i wasn’t con­tributing enough.” 
after moving to california from los angeles and begin­ning her career in creative ad­vertising, horvath said she met the mayor of los angeles while co-founding a local chapter of the national organization for women. 
“i knew from a very young age that i was called to be of service,” she said. “The gov­ernment and law — that’s how i wanted to make a difference. i felt that i could use that to make a difference.” 
horvath worked on multiple local commissions after serv­ing a short term on the west hollywood city council af­ter receiving an appointment through a special election held among the other council mem­bers. at the end of her special term, she ran for the position in the 2011 election but lost. she continued to grow her career in entertainment by working at a tech startup in los angeles and starting her own advertising company. 
horvath said during this time, she considered herself an activist and was very involved with her local community. 
“during that time, life was not very centered, not very bal­anced,” she said. “i didn’t know so for the women in the room, consider this the first time you’re being asked.” 
according to horvath, more than 50 percent of west hollywood’s residents are less than 40 years old, but she is the only member of the city coun­cil that is under 40. she tries to encourage young people to get involved with the local govern­ment by creating task forces that younger generations can be involved with. 
“a new generation of leader­ship isn’t just important — it is essential,” horvath said. “it is essential for the way our society works. our generation has so much to offer. i see the poten­tial for this generational divide to tear us apart — that’s one of the reasons that i want to create age-friendly communities.” 
horvath encouraged all stu­dents to follow their passions, attributing her current to suc­cess to the passions she discov­ered at notre dame. 
“pursuing your passion is always worth it. i worked hard [at notre dame], and here is where i learned how to be my­self and that’s exactly how i am able to do the things i do,” she said. “letting people know who you are and what you’re about not only helps other people fig­ure out who they are, but helps you better understand who you truly are.” 
Contact Jenna Wilson at jwilso35@nd.edu 





Research 
conTinued From page 1 
and J. nicholas laneman is an associate profes­sor of electrical engineer­ing, the founding director of the wireless institute and a fellow of the John J. reilly center for science, Technology and value. 
in the college of science, professor Timothy beers is the notre dame chair in astrophysics, and prashant kamat is the rev. John a. Zahm professor of science in the department of chem­istry and biochemistry and the notre dame radiation laboratory, as well as con­current professor in the de­partment of chemical and biomolecular engineering. 

in the mendoza college of business, luis gómez­mejia serves as the ray and milann siegfried professor of management. 
supreme court refuses to review abortion law 
Associated Press 
The u.s. supreme court re­fused on monday to review lower court rulings overturn­ing north dakota’s ban on abortion at six weeks of preg­nancy — before many women know they’re pregnant. 
The justices turned away the state’s appeal of decisions striking down the 2013 fetal heartbeat law as unconsti­tutional. The law never took effect, and abortion-rights supporters said it was the strictest anti-abortion mea­sure in the country. 
The high court last week rejected arkansas’ bid to en­force its own fetal heartbeat law, banning some abortions at 12 weeks. both measures had been struck down by a unanimous panel of three judges appointed by president george w. bush to the st. louis-based 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals. 
“we knew it was unlikely and it came as no surprise,” north dakota attorney general wayne stenehjem said of the high court’s refusal to review the case. 
The supreme court gets about 7,500 requests each year but takes on fewer than 100 cases. 
“it was a long shot,” stenehjem said. “and it’s the end of our litigation on this issue. even some of staunch­est pro-life groups agree there isn’t much more we can do at this point.” 
The appeals panel judges said the laws were inconsistent with the standard set by the supreme court that generally ties abortion restrictions to the viability of the fetus. but they urged the supreme court to re-evaluate its abortion cases to take account of changes in medicine and science, and the wishes of elected state law­makers. The current frame­work “discounts the legislative branch’s recognized interest in protecting unborn children,” Judge bobby shepherd wrote for the panel, which included Judges william benton and lavenski smith. 

north dakota’s republican-dominated legislature ap­proved the law in 2013, though it was quickly put on hold after the state’s lone abortion clinic, the red river clinic in Fargo, filed a lawsuit that July. 
republican gov. Jack dalrymple has called the law “a legitimate attempt by a state legislature to discover the boundaries of roe v. wade.” but opponents called it an at­tempt to shutter the clinic that is backed in its legal fight by the center for reproductive rights. 
nancy northrup, president and ceo of the new york­based group, praised the high court’s refusal to review the law. 
“This utterly cruel and un­constitutional ban would have made north dakota the first state since roe v. wade to ef­fectively ban abortion,” she said in a statement. 
north dakota lawmakers set aside $400,000 to defend law­suits arising from a spate of new abortion laws in 2013, and the legislature added another $400,000 last year. records obtained by The associated press show the state had used $320,029 to defend the abor­tion laws as of december, most of which was spent on the fetal heartbeat measure. 
no new abortion mea­sures were introduced by the legislature last year, after two of the most ardent anti­abortion state lawmakers were ousted by voters in the highly religious red state. 
“lawmakers need to know that citizens care about all issues, not just one,” said stenehjem, a republican seek­ing the nod for governor to re­place dalrymple, who is not seeking re-election. 
The Fargo clinic, which per­forms about 1,250 abortions a year, is served by out-of-state physicians licensed to practice in north dakota. The near­est other abortion clinics are four hours south to sioux Falls, south dakota, and four hours away in minneapolis. 
Senate 
conTinued From page 1 

consisted of helping first-year students get acquainted to each other, giving assistance to ad­missions and serving as a liaison between sga and the first-year students. 
“we no longer think they have a role,” baker said. “we want to change the position to ‘big belle, little belle’ chair, which includes recruiting ‘big belles’ from the junior class, working with ad­missions to recruit incoming 
first-years  and  hosting  events  
throughout the year.”  
baker proposed that  belles  

beginnings pre-Festival, the ac­tivities before domer Fest each year, will no longer be First year concerns responsibility, but the responsibility of the community chair. 
The senate also moved to 
Bill 
conTinued From page 1 

interview with The observer that the purpose of the bill is to require university po­lice departments to be more transparent with their pub­lic records. if passed, the bill would apply to notre dame security police (ndsp), the university’s private police force. 
in January 2015, espn filed a lawsuit against the university after ndsp re­fused to grant an espn 
change the international chair  a more defined role.”  
to  community  justice  chair.  baker said the community jus­ 
baker said senate hopes to start  tice chair would be in charge of  
recording certain events and lec­ an additional new event called  
tures and posting them on social  monthly mingles, a conversation  

“We want to change the position to ‘Big Belle, Little Belle’ chair, which includes recruiting ‘Big Belles’ from the junior class, working with admissions to recruit incoming first-years and hosting events throughout the year.” 
Kaitlyn Baker student body president 

media, in order to create conver­sations about controversial top­ics on campus. 
“rather than focusing on in­ternational students, we want to focus on all underrepresented students and clubs,” baker said. “we want to change the bylaws to give community justice chair 
reporter access to campus police records related to student-athletes. The case, ruled in notre dame’s favor by the st. Joseph superior court, was appealed to the indiana court of appeals by espn. oral arguments for the appeal are scheduled for Feb. 24, according to the south bend Tribune. 
bauer, a notre dame alum­nus, said the bill is not a direct result of the espn lawsuit. rather, he said the bill stems from concerns raised by indiana citizens, including many notre dame 
paid adverTisemenT 

centered around a specific topic for students to discuss with no media and no faculty present. 
The senate unanimously ap­proved all proposed changes to the sga bylaws. 
Contact Megan Uekert muekert01@saintmarys.edu 
graduates. 
because the bill relates only to cases involving arrests and incarcerations, university police departments will still not be required to disclose the same range of records as public police departments. 
bauer said the bill was crafted by bipartisan au­thors, with the help from the independent colleges of indiana (ici). although bauer sits on the board of the ici, he said there is no con­flict of interest because his position is unpaid, according to the south bend Tribune. 

The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By ALEXANDRA LOWERY 
scene writer 

The 2016 oscar nominees an­nounced last Thursday incited not only the resurrection of trending hashtag #oscarssowhite on Twitter, but also an outcry among actors and creators to boycott the awards show after it was re­vealed that for the second year in a row all 20 nominees in the acting categories were white. 
accusing hollywood of its contin­ued lack of diversity following the epic snubs “selma” received during last year’s awards season, it’s no wonder that audiences are in an uproar and taking a stand. The academy has been criticized for its obvious show of favor­itism towards “white men taking on adversity” with multiple nominations for “The martian,” “The big short” and “The revanant” while “creed,” “straight 
By JACK RIEDY 
scene writer 

anderson .paak knows his fame has been a long time coming. Though the california native has been recording with various pseudonyms and groups since 2009, he exploded onto a new level of fame this summer when he appeared on six tracks from dr. dre’s long-awaited third album “compton.” such a hefty co­sign from the gangsta rap legend would suggest that paak’s follow-up might traf­fic in the same style of hard-hitting beats and rhymes; the “doggystyle” to 2015’s “The chronic.” instead, .paak’s new al­bum “malibu” allows the multi-instru­mentalist to flex his muscles on an r&b odyssey. 
it’s no surprise to hear the artist, born brandon paak anderson, sing that he likes records on “your prime.” The warm atmosphere of his album fits perfectly in the dusty aesthetic of the vinyl revival. he delineates his influences further on the same track, name-dropping Teddy outta compton” and “beasts of no nation” remain largely unrepresented, despite receiving both critical and popu­lar praise. 
Jada pinkett smith took to herFacebook on martin luther king, Jr. day, asking her followers of color to consider pulling back the art that continues to go unno­ticed to their own communities and de­cidedly announcing that she will not be attending this year’s oscars along with her husband, the widely-considered snubbed “concussion” star, will smith. director spike lee soon followed suit in the boycott. his most recent film “chi­raq” earned a respectful 81% on rotten Tomatoes but no awards recognition. 
lee’s film, however, is not the only small movie to feel the crushing weight of white-washed hollywood. highly ac­claimed indie films featuring mainly black cast members set a new bar for tell­ing poignant human stories in unique 
pendergrass and sammy davis. while he’s obviously familiar with the vocabu­lary and style of hip-hop, it’s clear that .paak is harkening back to music made last century. on “The waters,” he sings “i’m glad that you finally made it to the future but you’re late.” For .paak, the fu­ture is about synthesizing the funkiest bits of the past. 
.paak leverages his connection to dr. dre for his features, including fel­low rising stars schoolboy Q and bJ the chicago kid, as well as rap veterans like Talib kweli and The game. Though he is the sole writer credited on every song, .paak has a similar variety in his pro­ducers, from new-school beat makers kaytranada and dem Jointz to crate dig­gers madlib and 9th wonder. 
The beats on “malibu” come from unquantized drums, deep enough in the pocket to make ?uestlove proud. warm electric basslines spiral around the chords, providing a counterpoint to .paak’s vocals. he has a singing voice that mixes the cracked charm of chance ways. sean baker, writer and director of “Tangerine,” utilized his iphone 5s to shoot the sundance Film Festival break­out, yet the film has gone completely un­recognized. “dope,” another sundance smash about black teens in the ’90s, was left off the 88th academy awards list of nominees despite it being a favorite of critics and audiences alike. however, these independent films’ white coun­terparts (aka “room” and “The danish girl”) earned an adequate four nomina­tions each, an even bigger feat consid­ering “dope” earned higher box office totals than both films. 

For many the problem is explained by the overwhelming number of academy members who are white, male and over 50, essentially people who “just can’t re­late.” cheryl boone isaacs, president of the academy of motion picture arts and sciences who happens to be an african­american woman, has stated that she 
The rapper with the fluidity of d’angelo. oftentimes, he finds a middle ground between rapping and singing, imbuing his rhymes with a sense of melody. when he cuts loose to emphasize a chorus, his voice soars. 
“celebrate,” the penultimate track on the album, shows .paak in full-on sam cooke mode. he supports an optimis­tic lyric with a simple descending chord progression and a lively piano solo. while not explicitly about the recent wave of pro-black activism, the desire to “celebrate while [he] still can” sounds especially poignant in the face of police brutality. 
in a way, this song works like the meta­phorical b-side to “animals,” the stand­out track from “compton.” with dr. dre, .paak criticized the media for painting a dangerously unfair portrait of black com­munities. here, he urges the listener and himself to take time to enjoy life while it lasts. like cooke’s classic “a change is gonna come,” .paak conjures up a rare feeling of optimism laced with sadness. 
is “heartbroken and frustrated” by the standing of nominees in recent years and has announced a five-year plan that hopes to increase diverse thinking amongst top executives when hiring, mentoring and encouraging new talent. 
npr recently reported the board of governors of the academy unanimously voted and approved changes to make “make the academy’s membership, its governing bodies and its voting mem­bers significantly more diverse.” 
while donald Trump would love see such obvious bias continue in hollywood, it’s safe to say that general audiences are no longer going to stand for it. more and more celebrities are speaking out and, with the use of social media, the oscars hopefully will not be “so white” for so long. 
Contact Alexandra Lowery at              alowery1@nd.edu 
not every lyric succeeds. in particular, “silicon valley” is a mess. .paak tries to use the new-school slow jam to tell his lover that he cares about her beyond her body, but he does so by fixating on her flesh. The sophomoric wordplay that follows is similarly tone-deaf. it’s funny when his lady cuts him off and urges him to get busy, but that doesn’t stop .paak from crooning the cringe-worthy chorus a third time. 
at the beginning of the final track, an unknown man verbalizes .paak’s mis­sion statement. he sounds young but weathered, like he spent all day on a surfboard. “i enjoy some of the old and i enjoy the new,” he says. “and if i can find a balance between it, that’s where i find my satisfaction.” when he’s on balance, anderson .paak’s postmodern mix of styles is thrilling. Though he hasn’t quite hit that sweet spot for the entire length of an album, “malibu” should leave listen­ers plenty satisfied. 
Contact Jack Riedy at jriedy@nd.edu 
ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 


The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

INSIDE COLUMN 

embrace the water 
Rachel O’Grady 
news writer 

here’s to the benchwarmers. probably the most underappreciated and definitely the most underutilized players on the team 
— there is little glory in riding the bench. however, it occurred to me recently that almost everything i need to know in life, i learned from being a benchwarmer on the st. ignatius girls varsity basketball team. 
“everything” is probably a bit of an ex­aggeration, but to this day, my junior year season sticks out as the season i learned some of the most valuable life lessons. 
i broke my ankle the autumn of my junior year, three-ish weeks before tryouts. For the traditional athlete, i would now begin the classic story of how i overcame an in­jury to return to the sport i so deeply loved. i am not the traditional athlete. growing up a very tall female, i was consistently expected to play sports like basketball and volleyball, despite my lack of interest and severe deficit of talent. as my ankle healed and basketball tryouts rolled around, i had no expectations of trying out for the team, until my dad asked me if i needed new bas­ketball shoes. after three hours of back and forth debate, it was settled, i was trying out for another season of torture. Thousands of sit ups, hours on a stationary bike and hundreds of “ankle strengthening” activi­ties later, i was cleared to practice with the team just two weeks after tryouts and one day before our first game. Fast forward five weeks, and i had become the team’s unof­ficial watergirl, solidifying my seat at the very end of the bench. 
Quickly, my frustration mounted, and i ended up complaining (read: crying) to my dad about the whole situation. in clas­sic dad form, he told me to suck it up and be the best i could be, even if that meant being the best water girl in saint ignatius history. in his words, i had to “embrace the water.” 
That year, we went on to make the sweet 16 for the first time in 20 years, and the water bottles were always full. There is no triumphant end to this story; i didn’t make the game-winning shot to win us the championship. i played a total of two minutes, grabbed one rebound and made a sweet jump shot once, but more impor­tantly, i learned the values of teamwork and courage and all the other fitting cli­chés for this scenario. you could practi­cally make a disney channel movie out of my plight. 
in all seriousness though, here’s to the benchwarmers, because people don’t say it enough. it’s probably one of the tougher roles to assume, but it is wildly worthwhile. breaking my ankle was weirdly a blessing, and not because it (eventually) got me out of playing the sport i dreaded for 10 years, but because it somehow very oddly shaped me into the person i am today. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at rogrady@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katherine Smart 
real Talk 

everyone can agree that no two individuals have identical personalities or life experiences. Just think of all the unique people you have met at this one university. There are bizarre combinations of academics, athletes, musicians, artist, activists and entrepreneurs. even the “katies from a suburb of chicago” can have completely different interests or ideologies. with so many unique individuals, multiple viewpoints are bound to develop. 
so, why do there only seem to be two solutions to every problem? 
Think about it. guns or no guns. immigration or no immigration. Taxes or no taxes. These are a few examples of the arguments that are analyzed over and over again on 24-hour news networks. however, for the amount of time spent talking about these issues, there seems to be very little progress toward reaching common ground. Just listen to the debate rhetoric or, better yet, scroll down your newsfeed. it is filled with empty lan­guage from two parties attempting to blame each other for our nation’s domestic problems. why? because it is way easier to point blame than it is to actually acknowledge and confront complex issues. 
Therefore, the question isn’t, “how has this hap­pened?” rather, “why are we constantly falling for this either/or attitude?” 
The first reason is the opposing team mentalities that result from polarizing issues. For the same reason that irish fans (justifiably) relate michigan football to the empire in star wars, people cling to their extreme stances on issues. instead of dis­playing multiple views and attempting to find solutions, debate reviews are centered on who “won” and who “lost.” we even used the word “op­ponents” to describe those who challenge certain opinions. however, how can people be “oppo­nents” if they are working toward solving the same issue? unfortunately, the “us verse them” mindset appeals to our basic instinct to conquer instead of collaborate. 
one of the most prominent repercussions of this team mentality approach is that unrelated issues can suddenly be lumped together. For example, if someone were passionate about universal health­care, then people would automatically assume that they must also disagree with the nsa. however, these are two completely separate issues that deserve their own time and attention. instead of determining issues based on the “team’s” ideals, people need to treat issues independent of political party or supporters. 
This leads into my third reason why people choose extreme sides: people don’t have the re­sources or time to thoroughly explore issues. known biases in the media make independent research almost impossible to achieve. even the most well-written and reliable news agencies are blatantly biased. The media’s failure to present non-extremist solutions to national issues has further pushed people to choose these far-right or far-left views instead of exploring other, more rea­sonable options. 
clearly there is a problem with the way issues are being evaluated. so what steps can we, as college students, take to prevent ourselves from develop­ing these tendencies? 
First, we should approach issues with the mind­set that people’s perspectives do not necessarily come from a place of hatred or ill will. a persisting example of this issue is the drone debate. while some people favor the use of drones because they protect our armed forces, others are concerned with its potential for abuse by law enforcement agencies. while they have different opinions, both sides are obviously trying to decide how to best protect the american people. 
second, we should acknowledge that opposing sides both make valid points. if people just disre­gard entire arguments because they disagree with a certain premise, a lasting solution will never be established. one individual or group cannot create a 100 percent effective solution to an issue, that’s why debate so fundamental to our democracy. people should welcome criticism in order to con­sider a wider realm of possibilities and solutions to difficult issues. 
so, as the election season continues, instead of looking at issues as “double or nothing,” lets try to find actual solutions to the untreated problems festering in our nation. Throughout the semester, i will do my best to adhere to these suggestions and evaluate complex issues in a way that our current media fails to do. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the Naval ROTC program and a current resident of Badin Hall. She is a political science and pre-health major. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The seed of struggle 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

i remember begging for a cellphone in junior high. all of my friends had them, so i figured that it was only fair that i should have one too. 
although it would be many years before i would use it to surf the web, FaceTime or pay with a credit card, i recognized very early on that the cellphone could be used in a myriad of ways — beyond simple functions like texting and phone calls. even before the dawn of apps and features that brought the world to my fingertips, i stumbled onto the truth that the cellphone might become a regular person­al companion. 
The seed for this discovery came during what seemed like a normal summer weekend after my junior year of high school. This particular weekend i had planned to meet some of my friends at the movies. while waiting in line at the ticket counter, however, i realized i had gotten the time of the movie wrong by 45 minutes. 
on one hand, i was mad at myself for the error. Truthfully however, i felt more uncomfortable at another realization. not only would i have to wait 45 minutes, but also i would have to wait out those 45 minutes alone. 
so, i went outside of the movie theater and parked myself against a wall that i thought would be out of the way. unfortunately, it would prove to be a very popular route over the course of the next 45 minutes. 
it felt odd to look at the streams of people who strode by me, so i mostly tried to avoid eye contact. what was most uncomfortable, however, was how i felt just sitting there, doing nothing — my feeling of aloneness was immense. 
on one hand, i felt silly being alone — silly at the fact that i had gotten the time wrong. but — i thought to myself — people make mistakes like this all the time. That thought, however, did not make me feel any better. 
To be honest, sitting there by myself just made me more uncomfortable. The feeling got so bad that i turned toward the one thing that could distract me. as people passed by, i not only pretended to text, but also pretended to talk on my cellphone. 
little did i know this would become the begin­ning of an all-too-common habit in my life — reaching for a cellphone as an emotional escape. 
i saw this story in new light after watching a video on youTube entitled, “why louis c.k. hates cellphones” at the end of last year. The roughly five-minute video’s thesis statement stung me right in the gut — while technology is dangerous because it can isolate us from one another, what is more dangerous is the way that it can isolate us from ourselves. 
as louis c.k. goes on to explain, the increase of technological development and its ease of use has made it increasingly easy to be able to guard us against uncomfortable emotions and situations like being alone. he states, “because we don’t want that first bit of sad, we push it away with other stuff. you never feel completely sad or completely happy.” 
we fear situations we can’t completely control or enjoy. in turn, we turn toward things like technol­ogy because it insulates and distracts us from the discomfort that follows. 
To clarify, the diagnosis of the problem is not with the technology, but with its users. it’s to say that something happens when we spend too much time in a virtual, screen-based reality where “swipes” and “taps” allow us to control and deter­mine our own happiness. yes, time in virtual real­ity may indeed accomplish our goal toward keeping feelings of boredom or aloneness at bay. but, the light of our screens becomes destructive when it becomes the only light in which we are comfortable living. 
as a consistent distraction, habitual technologi­cal use deludes us into thinking that the range of emotions we feel or thoughts we think are some­thing to be immediately remedied. it chokes us from seeing that budding seeds of insights and grace may follow when we really have the opportu­nity to see and feel how we really are. 
primarily, it chokes us from living into the real­ity of god’s light, the light of truth that invites us to see that even the seed of struggle can be watered into glory. 
The next time you are tempted to reach for your phone as a distraction, i invite you to resist the urge. There, in that moment, see what happens when you let yourself feel. 
i don’t know what will happen in each instance, but i do know that you will give yourself a greater opportunity to see the world in its true light — to see and appreciate those feelings that may ulti­mately be beckoning you toward beatitude. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

pricking the consciences 
congratulations to university president Fr. John Jenkins, executive vice president John affleck­graves, provost Tom burish and the other of­ficers of the university and the staff diversity & inclusion committee for what was truly a remark­able and historic walk the walk week at notre dame — a week, and a series of excellent events, programs and very honest discussions, which tru­ly honored the life and legacy of rev. dr. martin luther king, Jr. my hope is that we will be able to build on this success. 
For the last several months, it has been my pleasure to serve on an informal committee with 15 dedicated members of the notre dame and local communities — faculty, staff and alumni 
— whose goal has been, and continues to be, to encourage Fr. Jenkins and the officers group to host a series of major lectures and programs in­formally dubbed, “race relations in america.” a series that would, and could, deal with crucial race issues of our time, about which we would acknowledge that as a country and university we have been only mildly successful. at the same time, to acknowledge our failures. and, to provide necessary recommendations where these issues can be successfully addressed and begin to be implemented. 
our belief is that notre dame is uniquely po­sitioned “to prick the consciences” of our fellow americans and world citizens. only at notre dame. america and the world, do pay close at­tention to what is said, and being done, at notre dame. 
many of us realize that what we experienced last week really is only a beginning. planned, ex­ecuted and accepted with a seriousness, which struck many as pretty remarkable. 
i experienced “a beginning” 60 years ago, when i enrolled as a freshman at nd. i arrived on cam­pus in september 1955, but quickly discovered that there were only two black students in my nd class of 1959. and, only ten black students in the whole university. my two classmates, Tommy hawkins, the first black all-american basketball player at notre dame, and murray Turner, m.d., went on to distinguished careers in basketball, broadcasting and medicine. but, in June 1959, there were only two black graduates among the 1,203 who received undergraduate degrees that day. so, it was a small beginning. 
a big “thank you” to The observer for print­ing the wonderful column by brenna leahy last wednesday, “it’s time to walk the walk.” excellent. brenna’s message is certainly a much needed charge to those of us in the white community. 
yes, we continue to make progress. we made progress during the administrations of Frs. hesburgh and malloy. now, under the leadership of Fr. Jenkins, we appear to be making consider­able progress. i am aware that in past years there were efforts to honor and remember dr. king at nd. however, this year, the program and possi­bilities seemed to really come together. i suspect that a great deal of credit should also go to mr. eric love, director of staff diversity & inclusion, in the office of human resources. kudos also to him, and to his committee. may their work and fierce dedication assist all of us as we move forward. 
class of 1959 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 

JUST ADD WATER | John roddy & eric carlson SUDOKU | The mepham group 


FLING BY SPRING | riley mccurrie 


FOR RENT 

Home for Rent, avail. 2016-2017 Near corner of Angela and ND Ave 4 bdrm, 2 bath Contact jlafleur@gmail.com 
HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: concentrate on getting ahead. whether personally or professionally, you can turn your dreams into a reality. don’t waste time on anger or fretting over what others do or say. Focus on what counts most to you and give your all to make it happen. change is favored, and an innovative approach to life will bring good results. your numbers are 3, 11, 15, 22, 26, 31, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): roll with the punches and you will avoid being criticized. discipline and personal changes will be your best bet if you want to make progress. don’t let someone’s negativity deter you from taking care of your responsibilities. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The information you gather will help you gain the respect of your peers. a business trip will encourage you to make use of your practical but innovative ideas. a little romance will improve your relationship with someone unique. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take more interest in your surroundings and what you can do to formulate ideas and follow through with your plans. changes at home will make your life easier and can help your personal relationships operate more smoothly. 


CANCER (June 21-July 22): Talks will open up new opportunities. someone close to you will provide you with the resources required to follow your dream. romance is highlighted. strive for greater stability and security at work. get all promises made in writing.. 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): keep a close watch over your personal possessions. make the changes that will enable you to use your attributes in a unique way. a gift or financial gain will also cause an emotional reaction. be grateful and willing to share. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): love and romance look promising. doing something different with someone you enjoy spending time with will bring about a positive change to your living arrangements. Take care of your responsibilities, but don’t let someone’s demands ruin your fun. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): a good deed will not bring you the satisfaction you expect. problems will arise if someone you are close to complains about how you spend your time. Take a moment to acknowledge the needs of close friends and relatives. 


SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): an unusual situation at home will cause you emotional stress. make adjustments quickly to avoid loss, disappointment or frustration. it’s important to use a practical approach to get things done properly and avoid delays. Take care of someone you love. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): listen carefully and decipher how you can use the information you receive to improve your life, career or your current surroundings. an offer will sound much better than it turns out to be. ask questions before you proceed. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): go over important documents and open a dialogue with someone who can inform you about proper procedure. you can bring about changes that will encourage you to reconnect with the people you have enjoyed working with in the past. 


AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): a partnership will experience some ups and down. address issues directly, but don’t get into an argument. look for workable solutions that will give you both something in return. use incentives to keep yourself and others motivated. 


PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): you’ll face opposition and criticism if you let too many people know about your plans prematurely. get everything in order and only discuss matters with those who are already on board. romance is in the stars. 


Birthday Baby: you are innovative, congenial and adaptable. you are progressive and disciplined. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 
Want a pro to help edit/polish your disserta­tion or other research paper? Utilize an experi­enced editor with Word’s Eye View, serving all of Michiana. Call AJ at 574 312-3078 or email ajhughes71@gmail.com 

To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 


enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 

address 
city     state Zip 

ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

Firing coach won’t fix Cavs’ problems 
Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
i’ve been a cleveland sports fan for pretty much my entire life. i’ve seen my fair share of dysfunctional organizations and the questionable moves that such organizations make. but the cleveland cavaliers firing david blatt halfway through the season is one of the moves that makes the least amount of sense to me. 
look, i’m well aware that most people only thought of blatt as a “stand-in” coach for the cavaliers that let lebron have his way. i understand the importance of a team buying into a strategy and a game plan, and the respect for a coach that is required to do so. i heard all the criticisms about how he didn’t utilize kevin love as effectively as he should’ve and seemed to lack awareness when it comes to timeouts and play calls dur­ing the crucial moments of big games. 
but i still don’t like the move, and i don’t necessar­ily agree with all of those criticisms. 
consider this: when the cavaliers hired blatt, he wasn’t coming to a team with lebron and love or a championship-caliber roster. he was coming to developing team with a potentially bright future, and appeared to be the outside-the-box, offensive genius that could find a way to bring them there. 
but that’s not how things worked out. lebron an­nounced his return to the team — and, quite frankly, the city — he had left to suffer in the wake of his initial de­parture. a potential superstar in andrew wiggins was dealt for the known commodity of love, who not everyone was sure fit into the plans that blatt had when he was hired. Then the team brought in some of lebron’s veteran bud­dies to round out the roster. 
There went the plan, and with it the control for blatt. but he found a way to win anyways. 
say what you want about his fit on the team he wasn’t hired to coach in the first place. 80­43, a .675 winning percentage, shouldn’t be ignored. in terms of percentage, he was the win­ningest coach in team history. This season, his .732 winning percentage was the best in nba history for a coach fired in-season. 
additionally, the guy’s ad­justments to his plan weren’t half bad either. despite deal­ing with injuries, fitting love in, and finding a place for Timofey mozgov, J.r. smith and iman shumpert, the cavaliers finished fourth in the nba last season in offen­sive efficiency. and they were fifth so far this season. 
oh, and i forgot to mention that he helped bring the team within two games of winning it all last season. without love or irving for significant parts of the run. granted he had lebron, but the proved to mean nothing early in the year when they sat at 19-20 struggling to figure out what pieces they had on the team. after the dust settled from a bevy of trades, blatt figured it out, the team got rolling and they finished with a 53-29 record. and they were com­fortably on top of the east this season. 
despite this level of success for a new coach in a new style of the game, the cavaliers still felt the need to let him go, and give the head coaching job to Tyronn lue for the next three years. a team that is 23-5 in games this season when it used 90-99 possessions, as opposed to a mere 3-7 when it pushed to tempo and used more than 100 possessions, is now being asked to run an up-tempo offense. lebron doesn’t seem to like it, only saying that “this is what coach wants to do.” after one game, lue called the team “out of shape.” but perhaps it’s just because they’re being forced into an offense that — unlike their potential — doesn’t particu­larly suit them well. 
maybe lue can pull a blatt and get it to work despite that. 
in the end, it isn’t a particu­larly good look for the team. if it’s true that lebron and the team “didn’t see this coming” 
— say what you will about that — it speaks to continued dysfunction throughout the organization and a lack of continuity from the top down. it also sends the message that no one is safe, no matter how well you perform. lebron isn’t getting any younger, so when the cavaliers need to look to free agents to continue to round out the roster, who’s go­ing to want to come to a situa­tion as unstable as this? 
it wasn’t a good move to fire blatt. a new coach doesn’t make a championship run more likely for cleveland. it only adds a level of uncertain­ty and disarray to an organi­zation that could surely have done without it. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

NCAAW | kenTucky 64, Tennessee 63 
Wildcats rally for second- half comeback win 
Associated Press 

leXingTon, ky. — makayla epps scored 14 of her 23 points in the third pe­riod to rally no. 12 kentucky women from a seven-point halftime deficit before the wildcats held off no. 19 Tennessee for a 64-63 victory on monday night. 
kentucky (15-3, 4-3 southeastern conference) looked down and out trail­ing 35-28 at the break before epps shifted momentum by pushing a quicker tempo re­sulting in the wildcats’ first seven points of the period. she kept going to the bas­ket to help kentucky take a 49-44 lead into the fourth that reached 10 before a wild finish. 
Tennessee (12-7, 3-3 sec) stormed back within a bas­ket several times thanks to Te’a cooper, who made con­secutive baskets and had a chance to tie the game with 
10.7 seconds left. but she made just one of two free throws and the final horn sounded before her final shot hit the rim. 
kentucky’s Janee Thompson added 15 points including five points down the stretch that proved criti­cal as the wildcats missed shots and continuously gave Tennessee opportunities. but kentucky survived to end a four-game slide against the lady vols. 
cooper scored 18 points, diamond deshields added 13 and mercedes russell 12 for Tennessee, which led by as many as 10 before going cold in the pivotal third pe­riod. missed free throws by cooper and andraya carter in the final minutes also hurt the lady vols, who lost for the third time in four games. 
both teams needed a win with kentucky particularly hungry to bounce back from Thursday’s loss at mississippi that dropped the wildcats three spots in the Top 25. wildcat players, and coach matthew mitchell, lamented a lack of focus and energy in their second loss in three games, which they vowed would change on monday. 
The teams combined to start just 7 of 22 from the field by the first Tv timeout before the lady vols settled down and started sinking frequent open looks, especially from long range. Tennessee made 5 of 7 3-pointers in the first half, including back-to-back shots by Jaime nared and Jordan reynolds, to provide a 35-28 edge at the break. 
kentucky meanwhile shot just 30 percent before half­time and seemed listless at times, not contesting shots or battling for rebounds. That’s when epps woke up the wildcats with a spirited effort shooting and dribbling the ball, resulting in an un­likely comeback. 
Thanks to a few fortunate bounces, kentucky gained a hard-earned victory despite 36 percent shooting overall. Tennessee made 23 of 55 (42 percent) and outrebounded the wildcats 41-38 but ran out of time in a tense game. 
Tip-ins 
Tennessee: coach holly warlick remains two wins away from her 100th career coaching victory. 
kentucky: The wildcats improved to 10-1 at home this season, including wins over louisville and duke at nearby rupp arena. They’re also 3-1 against ranked teams this season. 

NHL | red wings 4, islanders 2 
islanders fall to red wings 
Associated Press 

new york — Justin abdelkader and danny dekeyser scored 1:11 apart in the second period to lead the detroit red wings to a 4-2 victory over the new york islanders on monday night. 
brad richards scored in the first period and petr mrazek stopped 27 shots to give the red wings their second win in five games (2-2-1). luke glendenning added an empty-netter in the final minute to seal detroit’s third win in the last 11 meetings (3-6-2) against the islanders. 
brock nelson and mikhail grabovski scored for new york, and Jaroslav halak had 22 saves while the islanders lost in regulation for the first time in five games (3-1-1). 
both teams were playing for the last time before the all-star game this weekend in nashville, Tennessee. 
with the score tied 1-1 in the second, abdelkader nearly put detroit ahead when he came around from behind the goal, but his wraparound attempt on the right side was stuffed by halak 7:10 into the period. 
abdelkader did put the red wings ahead about 6 1/2 minutes later. dylan larkin brought the puck across the blue line and passed it across to henrik Zetterberg, who sent it to abdelkader. he sent a slap shot from the right side past halak for his 14th of the season. 
dekeyser made it 3-1 with 
5:20 left. he skated across the blue line, had his first attempt blocked, got the rebound and wristed it past halak for his sixth goal. 
grabovski pulled new york within one when he skated down the middle on a break­away and wristed the puck into the top right corner with 
4:48 remaining in regulation. The islanders have outscored opponents 10-1 in the third pe­riod over their last five games. 
The islanders outshot the red wings 11-7 in a fast-paced first period. neither goalie was tested in the first few minutes until riley sheahan came in on a 2-on-1 and had his wrist shot stopped by halak 3:07 in. less than 30 seconds lat­er, anders lee had a break­away and tried to backhand it through mrazek’s feet, but the goalie denied the attempt. 
richards got detroit on the scoreboard first with a power-play goal about 30 seconds after nelson was sent off for hooking larkin, a 19-year-old rookie. darren helm was bat­tling Travis hamonic for the puck behind the net when nikolay kulemin came over and tried to clear it. instead, it went to richards, and he whacked the bouncing puck past halak with just over 9 minutes left in the opening period. it was richards’ fifth of the season. 
nelson tied it for the islanders about 5 1/2 minutes later. John Tavares got control of a loose puck near the left boards in the offensive zone, skated toward the net and sent a pass across to nelson, who sent a slap shot past mrazek for his team-leading 19th goal of the season. 
nelson has five goals and an assist in his last five games. 
noTes: The red wings re­called F Travis Tangradi and d nick Jensen from grand rapids of the ahl during the week­end, and assigned F Joakim andersson to the griffins. Jensen, d niklas kronwall and lw Teemu pulkkinen were scratched for this game. ... richards’ goal was just the fifth power-play goal the islanders allowed in 77 chances over the last 25 games. 



Murphy 
conTinued From page 12 
and last games at notre dame. 
“i remember the first game was against miami of ohio,” murphy said. “we played against wally szczerbiak, he was killing us. The last game i think we lost to mississippi in the ncaa. so it was a great experience. i really enjoyed it, had a great time. i have some fabulous memories.” 
murphy’s ring of honor-worthy statistics are not the only unusual part of murphy’s career. murphy first came to notre dame in 1999, in head coach John macleod’s final season. The next year was matthew doherty’s first, and only, at the helm and the team went 22-15 and reached the fi­nals of the niT tournament. murphy’s final season at notre dame was mike brey’s first and murphy said he benefited from playing under three different coaches. 
“it was unusual, but i en­joyed playing for each guy, and i think it got me ready to actu­ally play in the nba, adjust to different systems, things like that,” murphy said. “playing in different offensive schemes and for different personalities i think was something that really benefitted me. coach doherty ran pretty much the carolina stuff, coach macleod ran a [pro-style system], quick-hitting things, and coach brey just let us play. beyond the of­fensive schemes, different per­sonalities were something that you adjust to and something that i think helped me in the long run.” 
after murphy retired from the nba in 2013, he went back to school and received 
his  bachelor’s  degree  in  
sociology  from  columbia  
university.  

“i wanted to finish up my de­gree, that was my priority for me when i finished playing,” murphy said. “difficult for me to do while i was playing. Just at that point in my life, i was living in new york, it seemed like a better fit at the time.” 
and though murphy is now retired, he said he gets excited whenever he comes back to notre dame. 
“seeing coach brey with practice ... it’s been great, it’s been a lot of fun catching up with everybody.” murphy said. “it’s pretty awesome to be here and see all this new stuff. inside the purcell pavilion and outside.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


Track 
conTinued From page 12 
groesch, Turner was espe­cially pleased to see two of his men’s 400-meter run­ners, juniors harvey smith and alex groesch, finish­ing first and second in the 200-meter dash. 
“i was a touch surprised with alex groesch and harvey smith,” Turner said. “They’re known as 400-me­ter runners, they’re not known for 200, but they re­ally got after it today. i wish my whole team would’ve given that type of effort.” 
based on groesch and smith’s performances this saturday, Turner is optimis­tic about the rest of their seasons. 
“based on their perfor­mances today i think they can probably cut a half a second, each of them, off of their time,” Turner said. “if they do that, they have a great shot at making acc finals, which would be kind of unexpected for them be­cause their main event is the 400-meter not the 200-me­ter, so that’s a pleasant surprise.” 
despite solid moments from some of the irish run­ners, Turner came away from the meet feeling unsatisfied. 
“even though it’s a team sport, it’s always the sum of individual efforts,” Turner said. “we did have some very good individual efforts on the men’s side, but we’re just — we’re just not fully 


loaded. our bullet is in the  intensity next weekend at the  starting Friday.  
barrel, so to speak.”  indiana university relays in  
notre dame will have an­ bloomington, indiana, with  Contact Molly Murphy at  
other chance to pick up its  action at the two-day meet  mmurph40@nd.edu  

M Tennis 
conTinued From page 12 
good teams — in literally 90 percent of our matches we’re playing in games that both teams can win,” sachire said. “it reinforces the mindset of what we need to do in order to win matches. 
“we’re going to evolve and keep getting better as the sea­son progresses.” 
Facing the hosts, the irish (2-2) played a tight doubles point that came down to the final decision. The illini (3-0) got off to a great start 
as  redshirt  junior  Julian  
childers  and  senior  brian  
page  defeated  irish  fresh­ 

men grayson broadus and senior eric schnurrenberger 6-3 at the no. 3 slot, but notre dame evened things at the no. 1 spot with sixth-ranked senior duo alex lawson and Quentin monaghan breaking illinois senior Jared hiltzik and redshirt freshman alex Jesse on match point to win 7-5. Juniors eddy covalschi and Josh hagar made it a close match on court 2, but eventu­ally lost a close 6-4 decision to illini sophomores aron hiltzik and aleks vukic. 
The illini went on to take the next three matches at the top of the singles lineup, with no. 21 Jared hiltzik gaining a 6-0, 6-2 victory over covalschi on court 2, followed by vukic’s 6-3, 6-4 win over no. 37 monaghan on court 1. no. T-41 aron hiltzik sealed the victory for the illini with a 6-3, 6-2 win over lawson at no. 3. 
The irish fielded a much more competitive effort in the consolation game against no. 24 Tulsa, nearly pulling off the upset in a back-and­forth contest. The irish won the doubles point thanks to lawson and monaghan gut­ting out a 7-6(3) win in the tie­breaker. however, the golden hurricane (3-1) would even­tually clinch the victory in the singles matchups. 
The irish will return to ac­tion next Friday as they travel to evanston, illinois, to take on no. 25 northwestern at 7 p.m. in a matchup sachire said he is looking forward to. 
“recent matches with northwestern seem to al­ways come down to the wire,” sachire said. “The guys are going to come in with confi­dence, but we also know that we’re going to have to play our best.” 
Contact Joseph Everett at jeveret4@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | The observer 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | iTa kickoFF weekend 
Irish drop both contests at ITA Kickoff 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports writer 
notre dame dropped a pair of matches over the weekend, losing 4-0 to no. 11 oklahoma state on saturday and 4-0 to no. 27 arizona state on sunday at the iTa kickoff weekend in stillwater, oklahoma. 
in singles action saturday against the cowboys, notre dame failed to snag a sin­gle win. Junior mary closs was the first to finish, losing her match at no. 4 singles to oklahoma state senior kelsey laurente 6-0, 6-2. losses by junior monica robinson to cowboys sophomore vladica babic, 6-4, 6-1 at no. 2 singles, and by senior Julie vrabel, 6-4, 6-2 at the no. 6 flight to fellow senior maria alvarez sealed notre dame’s fate after the irish lost the doubles point earlier. 
senior Quinn gleason was behind in her match at no. 1 singles, 7-5, 2-0 before the match was discontinued, while sophomore allison miller trailed 6-4, 2-5 at the match’s retirement. irish sophomore brooke broda was up a break in the third set, 2-0, at no. 5 singles when play stopped for the day. 
The lone win of the day for the irish came from gleason and robinson’s doubles com­petition when they upset laurente and alvarez, the ninth-ranked doubles tandem in the country, winning 6-1. however, the irish fell at the nos. 2 and 3 flights, failing to pick up a point. 
on sunday against arizona state, it was a similar story for notre dame. robinson lost her match at no. 2 singles 6-4, 6-4, while vrabel lost 6-3, 6-2, and closs lost 6-3, 6-3 at nos. 6 and 4 respectively, sealing the irish loss after the nos. 2 and 3 doubles teams fell once again. gleason and robinson didn’t finish their match at no. 1 doubles after the sun devils secured the point. 
louderback said that inabil­ity to get results at nos. 2 and 3 doubles is a spot for the irish 

NBA | cavaliers 114, Timberwolves 107 
lue snags first win as cavs coach 
Associated Press 
cleveland — Tyronn lue has had a hectic few days. he now has his first win as an nba coach. 
lebron James scored 25 points to lead six players in double figures and the cleveland cavaliers defeated the minnesota Timberwolves 114-107 on monday night. 
cleveland lost to chicago on saturday, a day after lue re­placed david blatt, who was fired on Friday. 
lue was presented the game ball in the locker room follow­ing the win. 
“it’s only been two games, but to get my first head coach­ing win, it means a lot,” he said. “i came in the locker room, the team presented me with the game ball, lebron gave a speech and they all gave me a hug and said congratulations.” 
“it’s a special moment for anyone,” James said. “it could be a rookie player, a rookie head coach. when you get that first win it’s very special. you never forget it.” 
lue admitted the last few days have been a whirlwind. 
“Things are still moving fast for me,” he said. “i’m not used to it yet, but i think i’m ready for it. i think after to­night and the phoenix game (wednesday), i think things will start to slow down.” 
The timing of lue’s promotion came as a shock considering the cavaliers have the best record in the eastern conference. a lackluster loss to chicago didn’t help, but lue understands the expectations he’s inherited. 
“it comes with the territo­ry,” he said. “when you coach this type of team, a team who has aspirations of winning a championship, it’s going to be like this.” 
The cavaliers struggled with the Timberwolves before go­ing on a spurt that began late in the third quarter and car­ried over into the fourth. 
cleveland still had to hold off a run by the Timberwolves, who cut a 15-point lead to 94-91 midway through the fourth. Tristan Thompson scored seven straight points and matthew dellavedova hit a 3-pointer, giving cleveland a 104-91 lead. 
Thompson had 19 points with 12 rebounds and dellavedova scored 18 points. 
karl-anthony Towns led minnesota with 26 points and 11 rebounds. Zach lavine scored 21 points while andrew wiggins added 20. 
The cavaliers selected wiggins with the no. 1 pick in the 2014 draft, but traded him to minnesota in the deal that brought kevin love to cleveland. love scored 11 points and is averaging 16.3 against his former team. 
to improve moving forward. 

“we really need to get better at 2 and 3 doubles,” louderback said. “we have some things we have been working on in practice that we need to implement in matches.” 
despite this, louderback said he was pleased with the performance from his top doubles team. 
“our no. 1 doubles looked really good, and i thought Quinn gleason and allie miller played well both singles matches,” louderback said. 
notre dame’s next matches are sunday at the eck Tennis pavilion. The doubleheader begins at 11 a.m. when the irish take on illinois and continues at 5 p.m. against bowling green. 
“The season is just starting so we need to get our doubles better and make sure we only worry about the next match we play,” louderback said. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 


NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL | miami 80, duke 69 
Duke suffers fourth loss  in five contests 
Associated Press 

coral gables, Fla. — To celebrate an alley-oop assist, angel rodriguez retreated up-court with his arms spread like wings, a fitting pose for the high-flying miami hurricanes against duke. 
The senior guard shook a shooting slump by making three 3-pointers and added a career-high 11 assists monday night to help no. 15 miami hand the 24th-ranked blue devils their fourth loss in five games, 80-69. 
rodriguez scored 13 points for the hurricanes, who led for the final 24 minutes. sheldon mcclellan scored 21 points and benefited from rodriguez’s most spectacular assist late in the game. 
miami (16-3, 5-2 atlantic coast conference) beat a ranked team for the third time this season, and won by dou­ble digits for the 15th time. 
“we’re taking pride in making people respect us,” rodriguez said. 
coach Jim larranaga cau­tioned not to make too much of the win, however. 
“every game counts as one,” he said. “you beat duke, it counts as one.” 
brandon ingram led duke with 19 points and 10 re­bounds. grayson allen added 17 points but shot just 6 for 17, with three of his attempts blocked. 
The four recent losses for the blue devils (15-6, 4-4) have been by a total of 22 points. 
“we’ve had a chance in every game,” coach mike krzyzewski said. “That’s all i’m looking for. The winning effort has been there the en­tire time.” 
rodriguez came into the game 4 for 30 from 3-point range in league games but went 3 for 5 from beyond the arc in the first half to help miami take the lead for good. 
“i like playing the power­houses,” he said. “That’s what we come to the acc for.” 
“rodriguez was a great leader for them, distributing the ball, hitting the big shots,” krzyzewski said. 
rodriguez’s best play prompted the celebratory pose. duke was mounting a rally when rodriguez dribbled quickly through the defense in transition and tossed an alley-oop pass on the run to mcclellan for a dunk and a 64­55 lead. 
mcclellan celebrated sever­al baskets by waving his arms jumping-jack style, encourag­ing more noise from the sell­out crowd. The hurricanes lingered near the student sec­tion after the game to bask in their victory. 
“coach l is always preach­ing about just having fun play­ing the game,” rodriguez said. 
“a lot of credit too goes to the crowd. They were great.” 
The blue devils came into the game ranked fifth in the nation in scoring at 85.7 points but continued a recent offen­sive slump. They shot only 42 percent and went 6 for 20 from 3-point range, while miami shot 51 percent. 
duke missed nine consecu­tive shots, including five in one possession, during an 8-1 hurricanes run that put them ahead 45-35. 
The hurricanes’ man-to­man defense didn’t let duke get to the free throw line much, either. The blue devils average nearly 26 free throws a game but went just 13 for 17. 
“we played with a lot of en­ergy,” mcclellan said, “and it starts on the defensive end.” 
mcclellan scored six points in the final 2 minutes to help seal the victory. 
Ja’Quan newton scored 15 points to help miami’s bench outscore duke’s 21-7. davon reed added 14 points, and Tonye Jekiri had 10 rebounds, six offensive. 
The 7-foot Jekiri contribut­ed assists from the perimeter on consecutive possessions to keep a cushion down the stretch. 
“our playmaker,” larranaga said. “Those were beautiful.” 
The hurricanes finished with 24 assists to eight for duke. 


The observer | TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
WAKING THE ECHOES | Troy murphy 
Murphy inducted to Ring of Honor 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports writer 
notre dame added an eighth name to its ring of honor on saturday when former irish forward Troy murphy was in­ducted during halftime of notre dame’s win over boston college. 
during his time at notre dame, murphy was a two-time big east player of the year and finished his career fifth on notre dame’s all-time scoring list with 2,011 points. murphy averaged 21.4 points and 9.8 re­bounds over the course of his three years with the team and led the irish to a big east west division title. 
“it’s a great honor to be in such a select group of players and coaches,” murphy said. “it’s something i’m really happy to be a part of.” 
in murphy’s last season with the team, he led the irish to their first ncaa tournament in 11 years. The team seemed to be on the upswing under first-year head coach mike brey, but murphy elected to leave the team after his junior season and was selected as the 14th overall pick in the 2001 nba draft by the golden state warriors. 
“unfortunately, with the way the nba goes, you almost get penalized for staying,” murphy said. “They had a lot of high school kids that came out. There were five or six that came out my year that were drafted ahead of me and it was based on potential and at that time, the longer you stayed in college, the farther back you fell. i had to take advantage of the oppor­tunity to go and i thought the time was right and i went for it.” 
murphy went on to play in the nba for 12 seasons with six nba teams and averaged 10.8 points per game over the course of his career. despite his long professional career, murphy still remembers his first and last games at notre dame. 
“i remember the first game was against miami of ohio,” murphy said. “we played first 
see murphy PAGE 10 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Jackson to miss contest 

Observer Staff Report 
Junior guard demetrius Jackson will miss no. 25 notre dame’s game at syracuse on Thursday, irish head coach mike brey confirmed monday. Jackson, who pulled a hamstring early in saturday’s 76-49 home win over boston college, leads the irish with 16.6 points and five assists per game this season. 
“i just want to make sure we get him healed up,” irish head coach mike brey said. “ … we have to be really careful with this.” 
in Jackson’s absence, fellow junior guard and captain steve vasturia stepped into the point guard role saturday, posting a 16-point performance in the irish victory. brey said fresh­man guard rex pflueger is set to assume an increased role Thursday at syracuse. 
MEN’S TENNIS | iTa kickoFF weekend 
notre dame struggles on road against illinois, Tulsa 
By JOSEPH EVERETT 
sports writer 
notre dame traveled to champaign, illinois, last week­end to compete in the iTa kickoff weekend, but fell to host no. 7 illinois 4-0 on saturday at the atkins Tennis center before narrowly losing to no. 24 Tulsa, 4-3, on sunday in the consola­tion game. 
although the irish were handed their first two losses of the season, head coach ryan sachire saw a lot of positives from his team. 
“going into that event, you know you’re going to face two really good teams,” sachire said. “i don’t think we com­peted as we could have the first night — we were a bit tentative 
— but we definitely had more confidence and aggressive­ness that second night against Tulsa.” 
although the irish (2-2) were unable to pull out victories against top-25 competition, sachire said the team’s expec­tations for this season have re­mained the same. 

“our schedule is chock-full of EMILY McCONVILLE | The Observer 
Irish senior Quentin Monaghan returns a shot during a 4-3 win see m Tennis PAGE 10 over North Carolina State on April 18 at Courtney Tennis Center. 


TRACK & FIELD | noTre dame inviTaTional 
Irish finish fourth in indoor meet 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports writer 
saturday, notre dame’s men’s and women’s teams both finished fourth overall at the notre dame invitational. despite strong individual per­formances, the day did not meet irish head coach alan Turner’s expectations for his team against the strong compe­tition that included michigan, michigan state and louisville. 
“i think we really need to raise our intensity levels,” Turner said. “The first two com­petitions were what we call low key; there wasn’t a lot of great competition. 
“Today, and going forward, the competition has really stepped up and michigan came ready to perform, michigan state performed, louisville performed and we just seemed like we didn’t answer the bell so to speak, so we’ve got to pick it up. it doesn’t get any easier from here.” 
The meet included some pleasant surprises for the irish, however, including junior nathan richartz’s first-place finish in the pole vault. 
“nate today was outstanding in the pole vault,” Turner said. “he no-heighted last week at wisconsin. i didn’t say a word to him; his coach didn’t say a word to him. 

“he responded today with a big personal record, so i think he’s on his way and he’s some­one now that puts himself in the picture. he can qualify for nationals.” 
coach Turner also listed sophomore Jordan shead’s third-place finish in the women’s 600-meter run and freshman anna rohrer’s sec-ond-place finish in the women’s 3,000-meter run as two surpris­es of the day. 
“[Jordan] broke our school record in the 600; we don’t run that often,” Turner said. “anna rohrer opened up her first col­lege track race; she got second, but that time that she ran, i think, before this weekend will put her, like, fourth in the coun­try. we’ll have to see the results come in from this weekend but that’s an excellent start for her.” 
Turner was especially pleased to see two of his men’s 400-meter runners, ju­niors harvey smith and alex 
see Track PAGE 10 




