The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 68 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Indiana legislator introduces new bill 
New legislation could require private university police departments to disclose police records 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news writer 
state rep. patrick bauer (d-south bend) introduced a bill in the indiana state legislature Jan. 5 to change state law to require private university police depart­ments to disclose certain police records to the public. on Tuesday, house bill 1022 passed out of committee by a 13-to-0 vote, bauer said. 
“basically, [the bill] would make private schools with private police forces subject to the same public disclo­sures that a public police de­partment would be required to do,” bauer, a co-author of the bill, said. 
bauer said that if passed, the bill would require police departments at private uni­versities to disclose records relating to arrests or in­carcerations to the pub­
lic. The bill would apply to notre dame security police (ndsp), the university’s pri­vate police force. 
“i think a lot of people were concerned that when a private police force was involved, some of the rea­sons or causes or things that should have been re­ported — and would have been reported under a public investigation — were not re­ported,” he said. “This could make those fears or concerns go away.” 
in January 2015, espn filed a lawsuit against the university after ndsp re­fused to grant an espn reporter access to campus police records related to student-athletes. The case, ruled in notre dame’s favor by the st. Joseph superior court, was appealed to the indiana court of appeals by espn. oral arguments for the appeal are scheduled for Feb. 24, according to the south bend Tribune. 
bauer, a notre dame alum­nus, said the bill is not a consequence of the espn lawsuit. rather, he said the bill stems from concerns raised by some of his fellow notre dame graduates. 
“i think that we need to at least have some kind of as­surance that when there is a need to disclose, records 
see legislaTion PAGE 4 




Professor receives grant to study ionic liquids 
By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
in accordance with “laudato si’,” the pope’s encyclical on cli­mate change this past year, dr. Joan brennecke, the Keating­crawford professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at the university of notre dame, is working to develop technologies which will make energy produc­tion cleaner and recently received a $2 million grant from the united states department of energy to continue her work. 
brennecke said her work focus­es on ionic liquids. 
“ionic liquids ... are just salts that just have low melting points so that they’re pretty much liquid at room temperature,” she said. 
These liquids differ from nor­mal salts in a major way, she said. 
“so these salts that we make are not just sodium and chloride, they have some organic content to them,” she said. “They still have a cation with a positive charge and an anion with a negative charge, and it’s just because they’re a little more complicated, have more atoms in there, that they have a lower melting point.” 

brennecke said ionic liquids, which she has researched since 1998, have a combination of prop­erties that define them as liquids that do not evaporate. This unique feature makes these liquids ide­al for clean energy production, brennecke said. 
“They’re a liquid but they can’t cause air pollution,” she said. 
These ionic liquids also help reduce pollution by limiting the amount of carbon dioxide re­leased, she said. 
“if you have a gas fixture, that contains carbon dioxide. you can get the carbon dioxide that goes into the ionic liquid and leave the rest of the gas fixture behind,” she said. “Then i can take my ionic liquid over to another place and release the carbon dioxide.” 
while there is a huge potential for ionic liquids to help reduce cli­mate change, there are properties of the liquids which pose prob­lems, brennecke said. 
“The problem is [ionic liquids] are kind of viscous, kind of gooey, so they’re more like mineral oil instead of water, a little bit gooier,” brennecke said. “so what that means is that is that it’s hard to design them in a process when you’re trying to contact flue gas in liquid.” 
with the grant money she re­ceived from the department of energy, brennecke said she is working to solve this problem. 
“This new project we’re work­ing on is to encapsulate these ionic liquids in ... little shells,” she said. “we want to see if we can im­prove the use of these ionic shells in a process.” 
The use of these ionic liquids has far-reaching potential, she said. 
“it is important for coal and nat­ural gas power plants,” brennecke said. “it’s the same ... if you want to remove the carbon dioxide, this could be used for burning of any fuel source which has carbon di­oxide in it, it could be biomass, it could be natural gas.” 
brennecke said her work con­nects to the catholic mission of the university. 
“so this all kind of fits in well with the pope’s encyclical on cli­mate change,” she said. “so we like to believe we’re advancing the catholic mission.” 


Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 

University continues to offer online courses 
By DEVON CHENELLE 
news writer 
last January, the university began offering massive open online courses (moocs) in partnership with the online learning platform edX. since registration began, several of the university’s online cours­es have been completed, and the courses’ instructors said they have gained insight into moocs’ innovative education­al approach. 
professor of physics michael hildreth and associate profes­sor of teaching in mathematics annette pilkington collabo­rated as instructors for the university’s offering of “math in sports.” 
“we had a couple of Tas who would monitor the online as­signments and the blog chat,” hildreth said. “The office of digital learning did a huge amount of work in terms of post-production. … if i were to try do this by myself, i could never do it.” 
Though producing the cours­es was a group effort, the in­structors found the courses themselves were less collabora­tive. pilkington said in an email she experienced less interac­tion with students than she had expected, and hildreth agreed. 
“There definitely is a discon­nect. because there was no feedback, you’re standing up there talking to an imaginary group of people. it is a little strange,” hildreth said. 
gabriel said reynolds, pro­fessor of islamic studies and theology and the instructor for the university’s offering of “introduction to the Quran: The scripture of islam,” said teaching an online course is challenging because the in­structor does not have the di­rect contact of the physical classroom experience. 
“students are able to profit if they are motivated,” he said. “The great majority of students are not taking the course for a 
see moocs PAGE 4 


news PAGE 3 viewpoinT PAGE 6 scene PAGE 5 women’s basKeTball PAGE 12 FooTball PAGE 12 



Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com 

p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 
greg hadley 

Managing Editor  Business Manager
                  Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach Klonsinski 

Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao Online Editor: michael yu Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 
Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 
Editor-in-Chief 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
Managing Editor 
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 
Assistant Managing Editors 
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu wlin4@nd.edu 
Business Office 
(574) 631-5313 
News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 

What class are you looking forward to this semester? 

Jennifer Sporleder 
junior 
le mans hall 
“buyer behavior.” 
Emily O’Brien 
junior 
le mans hall 
“social work.” 
Michelle Casado 
junior 
le mans hall 

“native american literature.” 

Molly Fagan 
junior regina hall 
“nutrition.” 
Claire Kearns 
junior 
le mans hall 
“advanced biochem.” 
Riley Harber 
first year 
regina hall 
“your music, your life.” 
Viewpoint Desk 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 
Sports Desk 

(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 
Saint Mary’s Desk 
hehmse01@saintmarys.edu 
Photo Desk 
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com 
Systems & Web Administrators 
(574) 631-8839 
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published 
in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the 
administration of either institution. The observer reserves 
the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the 
majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 
managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. 

a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one 
semester. 
The observer is published at: 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-0779 

periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer 
send address corrections to: 
The observer 
p.o. box 779 
024 south dining hall 
notre dame, in 46556-077 
The observer is a member of the associated press. 
all reproduction rights are reserved. 



Want your event included here? 
News Sports 

catherine owers Zach Klonsinski Email news@ndsmcobserver.com 
THE NEXT FIVE DAYS: 

andrea vale marek mazurek alex winegar 
Graphics Scene 

Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
susan Zhu Kelly mcgarry 
Photo Viewpoint 

Physics Colloquium Staff Mass Lecture: “Mobile Annual Bridal Expo DeCicco Duals 
caitlyn Jordan bianca almada 
Nieuwland Science Hall Log Chapel Shakespeare” Joyce Center Joyce Center 4 p.m.-5 p.m. 12:10 p.m.-12:40 p.m. Hesburgh Library 10 a.m.-4 p.m. All day “A Brief History of All staff and faculty 4 p.m-5 p.m. Caterers, Notre Dame 
Corrections 

Atmospheric Neutrino are welcome. Fr. Jim Part of the Folio photographers and fencing team hosts 
The observer regards itself as Oscillations.” Bracke will preside. Fridays Lecture Series. more will be present. tournamnet. a professional publication and strives for the highest standards 
Men’s Basketball vs. Theatre Auditions Hockey vs. Merrimack Men’s Tennis vs. La Misa en Espanol 
of journalism at all times. we do, 
Georgia Tech DeBartolo Performing Compton Family Ice Michigan State Dillon Hall 
however, recognize that we will make 
Joyce Center Arts Center Arena Eck Tennis Pavilion 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
9 p.m.-11 p.m. 6:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 7:35 p.m.-9:35 p.m. 12 p.m.-2 p.m. All are welcome to 
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so 
The Irish take on the ‘Pride and Prejudice’ The Irish take on the The Irish take on the this weekly mass 
we can correct our error. 

Yellow Jackets. directed by Anton Juan. Warriors. Spartans. celebrated in Spanish. 

ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | The observer 

university hosts breakfast series for nonprofits 
By EMMA BORNE 
news writer 
For the fourth year in a row, the university’s office of public affairs and nonprofit executive programs in the mendoza college of business are giving back to the local community in the form of a breakfast series for nonprofit workers. according to marc hardy, director of nonprofit executive programs, the breakfast series is a way to provide the local nonprofit community with expert edu­cation on different parts of the nonprofit sector in a way that is sensitive to the busy lifestyle of the nonprofit worker. This year’s theme fo­cuses on human resource tips for nonprofits. 
The series has four parts, one each month from January through april, each lasting 90 minutes, hardy said. each at­tendee must pay $100 to at­tend the whole series, which includes a hot breakfast each of the mornings. hardy said the goal for the university is not to make money but to give back to the community. 
“it’s really kind of a public service. most of the people that come are going to be lo­cal. if they’re alumni, they’re probably going to be local,” hardy said. “it’s notre dame’s giveback. ... it’s basically, for us, a break even. sometimes we lose a little money, [but] it’s not something we try to make money on.” 
while the series is directed at a local audience, hardy said it is open to anyone who wants to know more about the subjects being discussed. undergraduate students can benefit from this series as in the field, hardy said, with well, especially if they are in-the goal that the presenters terested in the nonprofit sec-would be from notre dame, tor, he said. if possible. according to in-

each part of the series is formation on notre dame’s taught by a different expert news website, matt bloom, associate management pro­fessor and principal inves­tigator for the university’s wellbeing at work research program, will present Jan. 26, and barbara Fick, associate professor of law, will present Feb. 23. eric love, director of staff diversity and inclusion, will present march 22, and Jill bodensteiner, senior as­sociate athletics director, will present april 26. The speak­ers will discuss topics includ­ing the benefits of diversity, multicultural competencies, worker wages, employee pro­tections and leadership in the workplace. 


“The sessions will be held in Jordan auditorium in the mendoza college of business beginning with breakfast from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. and pre­sentations from 8 a.m. to 9:30 
a.m. a question-and-answer session between partici­pants and presenters is con­ducted during each session. registration is available on-line at community.nd.edu,” the website stated. 
hardy said this nonprofit breakfast series is important because it is unique. 
“nobody else is doing it. The only executive educa­tion for nonprofits that is be­ing done in this area is being done by us,” hardy said. “so, unless you’re in one of those programs, you probably don’t have this education open to you. and even if it was open to you, the cost [is] usually pretty high ... or the time commitment [is] too much. so here you have very low cost ... and you have a very doable schedule, and you have top experts in their areas.” 
Contact Emma Borne at  eborne@nd.edu 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

construction continues on campus crossroads 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
students returned from winter break to a campus covered with snow and bus­tling with construction, including renovations to hesburgh library and the construction of two new res­idence halls. construction began on corbett Family hall and duncan student center, both part of the campus crossroads project, in the fall of 2014 and is expected to be completed in the sum­mer of 2017. construction on the music and sacred music hall, also part of the campus crossroads project, began in the fall of 2015 and is expect­ed to be completed in the summer of 2017. 
doug marsh, associate vice president and university architect, said in an email that the projects continue to progress on their anticipated timelines. 
“work actually continues throughout winter and only stops during the coldest and snowiest or rainiest of days ,” he said. “The concourse space of the hesburgh library will be re-opened the week after spring break. mccourtney hall and the two new residence halls will open in august.” 
marsh said the projects are meeting all their anticipated milestones, including those for costs. 
“There are no changes an­ticipated in the construction impacts on the surround­ing campus for the spring semester,” he said. 
construction on mccourtney hall began in 

University bans hoverboards 
Observer Staff Report 
The office of housing sent an email to students Jan. 8 announcing a ban on elec­tronic skateboards, popular­ly known as “hoverboards,” on campus. 
“under the guidance of campus safety, the office of housing has made the de­cision to prohibit the use, possession or storage of elec­tronic skateboards including self-balancing boards/scoot­ers and other similar equip­ment in all undergraduate residence halls and gradu­ate residential communities until safety standards for them have been adequately developed and implemented across all models,” the email stated. 
The email cited safety con­cerns, saying that electronic skateboards “present poten­tial fire hazards, particu­larly but not limited to, the devices’ batteries lighting on fire while charging. 
“The  consumer  product  
safety  commission is ac­ 
tively  investigating  and  
testing  to  address  the  
safety  of  these  devices.  

representatives of student affairs and campus safety will continue to monitor the status of these devices and housing policies will be modified accordingly,” the email stated. 
a Jan. 9 article by usa Today listed more than 20 colleges and universities that have banned use of elec­tronic skateboards, includ­ing the catholic university of america, university of connecticut and georgia state university. 

Legislation 
conTinued From page 1 

will be disclosed,” he said. “it’s the same as it would be under current public procedure.” 
The bipartisan authors of the bill involved private indiana colleges and uni­versities in discussions while crafting the bill, bauer said. 
“i met with notre dame several times, and i’m on the board of the independent colleges [of indiana],” he said. “i met with the president of the board. he shared some of the concerns and also wanted to get away from the idea that there was something to hide.” 
bauer said the bill does not aim to change disclo­sure policy at public police departments. 
“This vehicle is to make the disclosure that’s now required by public police departments to be the same at a private de­partment,” he said. 
university spokesman dennis brown said in an email that notre dame believes some aspects of indiana’s access to public records act (apra) should apply to pri­vate university police depart­ments. brown said ndsp and other private police depart­ments in the state have been in full compliance with apra as it currently applies to them. 
“notre dame offered its support, perspective and as­sistance to the leadership of the independent colleges of indiana as it worked with rep. bauer to craft revisions to apra to open police re­cords while still maintaining compliance with federal regu­lations regarding student pri­vacy,” brown said. 
bauer said that while it is early on in the process, the bill has yielded promising results thus far. 
“so far, getting a hearing and having co-authors from both caucuses is a good sign,” he said. 
The bill will go the house floor for its second and third readings at the end of this week or early next week, bauer said. 
Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 


MOOCs 
conTinued From page 1 
letter grade. ... it showed me how much students are moti­vated by the grade.” 
hildreth said although the online courses were less interactive than more con­ventional offerings, he felt students received timely feedback and had their ques­tions answered. 
pilkington said the edX has a good layout and smooth video playing, though she encountered programming limitations in creating math questions. 
“The platform was pret­ty slick,” hildreth said. “production values are real­ly high. i did some editing of the modules and things like that, and it was pretty easy to customize things and move things about.” 
while there is speculation that moocs will fundamen­tally change higher educa­tion, pilkington said she believes they offer more op­portunities for students and teachers. 
“i don’t think it will threat­en the university system as we know it,” she said. 
hildreth said the moocs are missing the engagement of a physical classroom, where, crucially, students can engage with each other as well as the professor. The technology of online courses cannot replicate the inter­activity of a conventional classroom experience, he the summer of 2014 and will to be completed in the sum-around campus can be found be expected to be completed mer of 2017. at construction.nd.edu in the fall of 2016. Jenkins more information regard-hall and nanovic hall began ing construction projects Contact Catherine Owers at  last summer and is expected and renovations taking place cowers@nd.edu 


said, although hildreth did not rule out such a future possibility. 
“i think putting as much content out there for people is better than nothing, but on-line learning doesn’t, by any sense of the imagination, re­place what we do here in the classroom,” hildreth said. 
reynolds said he felt online classes were a good thing for students, particularly those in countries without access to expert teachers. moocs also give more students ac­cess to leading scholars, he said, and facilitate the de­mocratization of knowledge. 
“having taught mature students, i know that they have incredible motiva­tion but struggle greatly with finding time to study,” pilkington wrote. “i think that online courses and de­grees will have great appeal to part-time students and will improve their lot by freeing up time that would otherwise be spent traveling to and from class at their lo­cal university in addition to providing options at distant institutions.” 
hildreth said he may use methods from his online class in his physical class­room, such as producing videos of him addressing a problematic concept. The instructional video could save instructors and stu­dents time on frequently asked questions. 
reynolds said there are many new possibilities to engage students created by the development of the tech­nology behind moocs, and he believes they are an excit­ing way to use technology to aid, if not replace, the con­ventional learning process. 
“some students would thrive in an online environ­ment and some would not do well. it is certainly benefi­cial to have resources avail­able in the form of online courses,” pilkington said. “however, i think given the choice between studying full-time at a university and studying part-time online, the better choice is to im­merse oneself fully in their studies for a few years on a campus.” 
Contact Devon Chenelle at dchenell@nd.edu 

The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2015 | ndsmcobserver.com 

SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Making a tech addict 
Miko Malabute 
associate scene editor 

over my last semester break as an un­dergraduate, i joined what seemed to be the rest of the millennial generation in binge-watching the newest, hottest netflix series, “making a murderer,” a 10-part documentary series chronicling the mys­terious, confusing murder case surround­ing steven avery, his nephew brendan dassey and the tragic victim Teresa halbach. 
For those unfamiliar with the series or the case it covers, it looks at how avery was wrongfully convicted of a crime and mistakenly (or perhaps not so mistakenly, if you have your tinfoil hat on to go along with your conspiracy theories) impris­oned for 18 years. Then, shortly after his release, he became the prime suspect of the homicide of halbach. he was thrown in jail once again, along with his nephew dassey. This time it was seemingly for life. 
The series is dark and cynical, which especially nowadays is the key to making a compelling piece of entertainment. 
like everyone else, i raced through the entire series. even though i grew more and more intrigued (as well as frustrated, outraged and bemused) with the case, i also found myself getting sadder and more despondent. This was not just from the content, but because i knew i had just spent more than 10 hours doing quite lit­erally nothing worthwhile. 
so then i tried not to be a complete wastrel of a human being and decided to try something new during my month or so at home. so i did what any 21-year-old male with noodle arms, misshapen legs and a constantly fluctuating ego would do: i signed up for a month-long member­ship at my local gym. it was, at the very least, an excuse to get out of the house and remind myself that i have my own life to live. 
in my hometown, the local ymca is juxtaposed to the gym. as i drove past there, there was an interesting message on the marquee: “unplug from your phones / reconnect with your families.” This mes­sage was absolutely what i needed to bring me back to life following that emotional beatdown of a documentary series. 
at the risk of sounding like the old man yelling at kids to get off his lawn, i am now all about turning the screen off and just reconnecting with people, rediscovering the human aspect of our communities. don’t get me wrong, i obviously consume more than my fair share of netflix and all — just come find me during finals week — but that constant isolation as you stare at a screen (especially when you’re watching a series like “making a murderer”) is just downright depressing. so, yes, this might be a little preachy, but this semester, try to take out the earphones and go reconnect with people. 
Contact Miko Malabute at       mmalabut@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Karen Gilmore 
guest columnist 

at first glance, they’re everywhere. every student at notre dame has the opportunity to build quite an impressive collection of T-shirts without having to spend a penny. it seems like every club, organiza­tion, team, department and dorm on this campus has given out free T-shirts for some reason or other, be it to promote an event or blow through extra money in the budget at the end of the year. 
i’ve placed apparel orders for student groups i’m involved with, and i can testify to how easy it is to do so and how effective shirts can be as a marketing tool. however, these freebies come at a cost, and not just to the groups that give them out. The environ­mental and social costs of producing and caring for T-shirts are staggering. 
let’s take a look at the resources that go into a T-shirt. cotton is a water-intensive crop that tends to involve high levels of pesticide application. Fresh water is also used in the manufacturing process through dyeing, bleaching and washing. garment factories, especially those overseas, are rarely equipped with efficient technology. 
nearly all of our free T-shirts are made in other countries. of the ones in my own drawer, my green-dot T-shirt was made in the dominican republic, my wvFi radio shirt came from pakistan and my lyons hall v-neck was made in honduras. These shirts came a long way, and fossil fuels were burned to get them here. 
on top of the large amounts of resources that go into producing and distributing T-shirts, far more energy and resources are used once they reach the consumers. washing alone uses about 40 gallons of water per load, and it takes five times as much en­ergy to run a load through the dryer. producing and caring for the T-shirts we get for free involves thou­sands of gallons of water, pounds of pesticides and chemical fertilizers and hundreds of kilowatt hours of electricity. however, we aren’t thinking of any of these costs when we pick them up for free. 
Just as important, if not more so, as the environ­mental cost of producing T-shirts is the human cost. The dismal working conditions in garment facto­ries pose serious threats to human rights, and toxic waste from factories compromises the health and safety of local communities. These practices are common in developing countries, out of sight and out of mind to american consumers. apparel com­panies compete by keeping wages low and spending as little as possible to maintain safe working con­ditions. as long as consumers are choosing goods based only on what’s cheapest, companies have no incentive to improve their practices. 
For example, in 2013, the rana plaza factory collapse killed more than a thousand people in bangladesh, and this is only one of dozens of simi­lar tragedies. it’s hard to justify the deaths of these workers with something as trivial as keeping cloth­ing prices low for consumers. economists like Jeffery sachs emphasize the importance of industri­alization in the process of economic development, and sweatshops are often considered a necessary first step. i’m not trying to affirm or discount this stance. i just want to mention the critical role the apparel industry plays in developing economies. 
i don’t think that demonizing or boycotting sweat­shops is the solution to the problems i’ve discussed, but i do think governments should implement tighter regulations and consumers should expect transparency. we ought to demand the labor and resources that go into our goods are part of a sus­tainable system, and we should be willing to pay a bit more if that’s what’s necessary to support work­ers and protect the environment. 
we ought to reflect the global consciousness fostered by this university in our consumption de­cisions. when organizations absorb the costs of goods, consumers inevitably devalue them because they don’t engage in the act of purchase. The people ordering the apparel in the first place are also es­tranged from the cost because they aren’t spending their own money, but rather organization funds. 
To close the widening rift between producers and consumers, i propose that we stop giving away free T-shirts and other apparel items at notre dame in order to keep us aware of the costs of production. by hiding the economic costs of our clothing, we hide the social and environmental costs as well. we should be willing to shoulder the cost of the clothes we wear and acknowledge the part we play in this broken global system. 
Karen Gilmore is a senior studying sociology. She can be reached at kgilmor2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Take a leap of faith and begin this wondrous new year by believing. believe in yourself. and believe that there is a loving source, a sower of dreams, just waiting to be asked to help you make your dreams come true.” 
Sarah Ban Breathnach 
Author 


IRISH INSIDER 
OHIO STATE 44, NOTRE DAME 28 | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
O-H-N-O 

WEI LIN | The Observer 

Irish senior receiver Chris Brown cannot haul in a pass while being defended by Buckeyes sophomore cornerback Eli Apple in the first half of Notre Dame’s 44-28 loss to Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 1 in Glendale, Arizona. Brown had four catches for 35 yards and grabbed one touchdown in the defeat. 
Ezekiel Elliot, J.T. Barrett run wild against Notre Dame 
By GREG HADLEY 
Editor-in-Chief 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Every time it looked as though No. 8 Notre Dame’s offense had played the Irish back into the Fiesta Bowl on Friday, No. 7 Ohio State would respond with two seemingly unstop­pable forces: junior run­ning back Ezekiel Elliott and sophomore quarterback J.T. Barrett. 
The pair of Buckeyes side­stepped, stiff-armed and ran right through the Irish de­fense to the tune of 245 yards, carrying their squad to a 44­28 victory in the desert. 
Elliott, a second-team All-American and Big Ten offen­sive player of the year, racked up 149 yards and four touch­downs, tying the Fiesta Bowl record for rushing scores. One of those scores, a 47­yard scamper, came in the middle of the third quarter after Notre Dame had cut the deficit to seven, the closest the Irish would ever get to the Buckeyes the rest of the way. His performance garnered high praise from his head coach, Urban Meyer. 
“All due respect to all the great running backs in Ohio State history, my first-round draft pick, I’d pick Zeke Elliott,” Meyer said. “What he does without the ball, his work ethic in practice, just his attitude every day, the way he shows up. … He’s as good a running back as I’ve ever been around.” 
But as impressive as Elliott’s performance was, his 47-yard score and a large chunk of his yardage came later in the game, after Irish junior line­backer Jaylon Smith left the game with a knee injury. He was also facing a Notre Dame defensive line dogged by in­juries and suspensions. 
The problems for the Irish began early in the week, when sophomore Daniel Cage suffered an ankle injury that did not keep him from play­ing but significantly limited his snaps. 
Then, senior Sheldon Day went down with a foot inju­ry so severe the Notre Dame medical staff thought he had 
see RUN DEFENSE PAGE 2 

Injuries, suspensions finally catch up to Irish, who run out of steam in Fiesta Bowl loss to Buckeyes 
By MARY GREEN 
Assistant Managing Editor 

GLENDALE, Ariz. — Despite all the injuries dealt to Notre Dame this season, the team had ei­ther still emerged victori­ous in 10 of its matchups or had been pushed to the edge, against Clemson and Stanford, and come up short by the smallest of margins. 
But when the No. 8 Irish faced No. 7 Ohio State in the BattleFrog Fiesta Bowl on Friday, they couldn’t hold it together for the last game of the season, falling 44-28 to the Buckeyes. 
Since arriving in Arizona for the contest less than a week before, Notre Dame (10-3) had lost starting ju­nior safety Max Redfield and freshman defensive lineman Jerry Tillery to suspensions and starting junior cornerback Devin Butler to injury. 
Senior defensive lineman Sheldon Day played after nearly breaking his foot earlier in the week and then receiving IVs and medicine to battle through sickness the night before the game at University of Phoenix Stadium, head coach Brian Kelly said. 
Senior running back C.J. Prosise, who Kelly had said earlier in the week had re­covered well from a high ankle sprain, barely saw the field because he “just felt like he couldn’t go,” ac­cording to Kelly. 
But the real strike came in the first quarter Friday, when consensus All-American junior lineback­er Jaylon Smith suffered what his head coach called “a significant knee injury” to his left leg after being pushed by an Ohio State player following a play. 
“You lose a guy like that early on, it significantly af­fects what you’re doing de­fensively,” Kelly said. 
Smith’s replacement at “Will” linebacker, fresh­man Te’von Coney, then injured his shoulder at the beginning of the second quarter, to be replaced in turn by graduate student Jarrett Grace, who had tak­en most of his reps in 2015 at the “Mike” linebacker position. 
With the Irish defensive line, linebackers and de­fensive backs all depleted in some way, Ohio State (12-1) was able to run eas­ily and often over the Notre Dame defense. Junior run­ning back Ezekiel Elliott had his way Friday, total­ing 149 yards on 27 car­ries and reaching the end zone four times. The final score capped off a 47-yard sprint to put the Buckeyes back ahead by two scores in the third quarter, 35-21, two minutes after Notre Dame had cut its deficit to a touchdown. 
“He makes it challeng­ing,” Day said of Elliott. “He’s a physical back. He makes his presence known. He did some special things with his feet today. I would say that was the most dif­ficult thing about it.” 
Sophomore quarterback 
J.T. Barrett rounded out 
see INJURIES PAGE 3 




Run defense 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
broken his foot, according to head coach Brian Kelly. While the X-rays came back nega­tive, Day was promptly hit with a illness that required IVs throughout Thursday night. 
Finally, with fewer than two hours until kickoff Friday morning, the Irish announced freshman Jerry Tillery was suspended for a violation of team rules. 
That left senior Romeo Okwara, junior Isaac Rochell and sophomore Andrew Trumbetti as the only healthy defensive lineman left with any significant experience this year. Day, with his foot taped, joined them in the starting lineup. 
And for the first quarter and part of the second, that line managed to hold up against the rushes of Elliott and Barrett. After 15 minutes, the two had just 39 combined yards, and Elliott did not even touch the ball for 13 straight offensive plays in the second quarter. 
But eventually, the offen­sive line of the Buckeyes, which featured two first-team Big Ten players, wore away at the Irish. 
“I would say schematically, they do a great job of creat­ing challenging situations with changing numbers and unique plays,” Irish gradu­ate student linebacker Joe Schmidt said. “You combine that with Ezekiel Elliott and J.T. Barrett’s ability to run the football, then their offensive line doing a great job all day.” 

Elliot gashed the Irish for two touchdowns in the final five minutes of the half, both of which he punched in from one yard out. Meanwhile, Barrett racked up 41 yards in the second quarter alone. 
Barrett credited his rush­ing success to his offensive line as well. 
“That’s what we strive to do, is definitely dominate the line of scrimmage, those guys definitely did that, which opens up our whole offense when you’re able to do that,” he said. 
Despite the defensive line’s struggles to contain the Ohio State run game, however, Kelly said he was proud of how they battled through the absences and reduced roles of key players. 
“We certainly needed to ex­ecute better, but didn’t feel like we were out-manned,” Kelly said. “We were short­handed today, but we weren’t out-manned.” 
One of the few bright spots for the Irish was Trumbetti, who filled in for Cage and tied career highs in tackles (four) and sacks (one), while setting a new career best in tackles for loss (two). That performance bodes well for next year, Kelly said, when the Irish will have to replace Okwara and Day. 
“He made some good plays. He made the athletic plays,” Kelly said. “The one thing with Andrew is, he just has to let it go. At times … he can go. Sometimes it’s just a mat­ter of letting it go. When the light goes on and he goes all the time, I think he’s going to be a really, really good player for us.” 
But Friday, the issue for Notre Dame wasn’t who was playing defense, according to Rochell. It was the players on the other side of the ball. 
“[Elliott’s] just a really good running back. I don’t know what else there is to say,” Rochell said. “[The of­fensive line] was good. They were a solid group. But when you have a running back as good as he is, I think that’s the dominant force.” 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | THE OBSERVER 

Injuries 
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
Ohio State’s 1-2 punch, pick­ing up 96 yards on 23 rushes and adding 211 more yards through the air on 19-of-31 passing. 
The two Buckeyes large­ly led their team’s attack on third down, where they converted 10 of their 18 at­tempts, and they came away with scores in all seven of their trips to the red zone. 
“I told our football team that it was going to be a phys­ical game today,” Kelly said. “I thought that we handled ourselves well relative to the physicality of the game, but we didn’t execute as well as we needed to win the game. Couldn’t get off the field on third-down situations and had some opportunities of­fensively that we couldn’t capitalize on.” 
Notre Dame never held the lead Friday and fell be­hind quickly after Ohio State crossed the goal line twice in the game’s first eight min­utes. The Irish punted on their first three drives, in­cluding two three-and-outs, despite catching an early break as Buckeyes junior de­fensive lineman Joey Bosa was ejected for targeting on a hit to sophomore quarter­back DeShone Kizer. 
Freshman running back Josh Adams finally put the Irish on the board midway through the second quar­ter, scoring on a three-yard rush, and they added another touchdown on a quarterback keep by Kizer shortly before halftime, when they trailed 28-14. 
Ohio State received the ball to begin the second half, but its drive ended when Barrett was picked off by gradu­ate student linebacker Joe Schmidt, beginning an Irish drive that finished with a four-yard pass from Kizer to senior receiver Chris Brown in the back corner of the end zone. 
“The way they competed this year, regardless of the circumstances, they just keep playing,” Kelly said. “I think the best illustration of that was the first five min­utes of the third quarter, I challenged them and told them, it was a bit risky as a head coach that you tell your football team that the game is going to be decided in the first five minutes of the third quarter, because obviously if Ohio State goes down and scores, it probably takes the wind out of our sales. 
“We came up with a big turnover, we consequently scored there. Made it 28­
21. Just loved the resiliency of our group and very, very proud of them.” 
Kizer notched 284 yards on 22-of-37 passing, but he also struggled throughout the game, grounding several passes into the turf, throw­ing a third-quarter inter­ception just as the Irish had entered Buckeye territory and fumbling with 1:27 left to all but seal the victory for Ohio State. 
“It’s very disappointing,” Kizer said. “I believe I’m a better athlete than I showed today, and I believe that, with all the things we’ve learned in the past, all the experiences I’ve had in the past, that I should’ve execut­ed a little better. We came up a little short, disappoint­ing, but more importantly, as mad as I am at myself, the disappointment is really the fact that I wasn’t able to take an amazing group of seniors and amazing football team that we have and try to end the year on a victory.” 



Kizer did hit junior receiv­er Will Fuller for an 81-yard grab and score at the start of the fourth quarter to cut Ohio State’s lead to 38-28, but the Irish were held scoreless the rest of the game while the Buckeyes tacked on two more field goals for the 44-28 win. 
Despite the loss, Kelly said he “couldn’t be more proud” of Notre Dame’s showing Friday and throughout the season. 
“We didn’t get out-toughed,” Kelly said. “[Ohio State] ran the ball effectively. 
I’m not taking anything away from their ability to do so. But we didn’t flinch. That’s the mark of this team this year, that they played hard and physical. Regardless of who was out there, they gave us everything they had. 
We were a little shorthand­ed, but they didn’t make any excuses for it. They battled. We were missing a rota­tion inside defensively at the tackle position, but they didn’t complain. They took extra reps. That’s the mark of a group that just has bought in to do whatever is neces­sary to win.” 
Contact Mary Green at mgreen8@nd.edu 




The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Hard work is the solution we need 
Mark Tarner 
guest columnist 

listen to our recent national political debates, and our fate seems to hang in the balance: al-Qaeda, isis, global warming, the deficit. The more i listened to the candidates from both parties talk, the more i become depressed and truly fearful. am i alone? 
conservativism, socialism, progressivism rain down not answers to our nations problems but failed solutions from the past. To move forward and change, these “-isms” need to be feared more than isis or imams. They are childish and have no place in a serious public debate; they are hurting more than helping. 
napoleon had a maxim: “That the destiny of states depend on a moment.” i believe we are cur­rently in the middle of one of those moments. our only way forward is to work ourselves back to prosperity. it will not be easy given the spirit of our times. 
politicians and pundits are not encouraging work as a way out of poverty, to maintain your position in an economic class or even to become a millionaire. They all seem to be too busy point­ing fingers at each other instead of searching for the root causes of the declining economic status of some groups in our society and crafting poli­cies that encourage work, thrift, common wealth and self-reliance while discouraging debt and selfishness. 
opportunity and the seeking of it is the founda­tion upon which we must rebuild our economy. 
as sincere as they both are, i know the words of glenn beck or barack obama are not going to do much to create jobs and a future for us. we may agree with them, and their words may comfort us, but we must each work individually at achieving the american dream and writing another chapter in the great history of our nation. work is the key word and the only one seldom heard as a solution to our problems. 
everything takes work. it takes work to keep a marriage and family together, it takes work to make payroll, it takes work to graduate from col­lege, and it takes work to keep a city clean, safe and prosperous. These jobs are not 40-hours-per­week positions. anything worthwhile demands our total commitment and unrelenting work to achieve. 
i cannot think of anything i cherish that does not require strenuous effort. i believe in order to become the next greatest generation we must work hard, long, smart and together. nothing short of work will put real money in our bank accounts, change our nation’s current course or allow us to compete globally. let’s work together instead of fighting against each other. 
let’s send that message to wall street, washington and to the world. america works. 
we have been the world’s number one economy since 1872. over the last 142 years, the world has been transformed, and humans along with it. american values and ethics have played a leader­ship role. we will need a great change in our cur­rent state of affairs to remain competitive and continue to lead. 
americans are willing to work, but our leaders must set the tone. 
as americans, we must work at our jobs and deal with the problems our corporations, our cities and our nation face. To remind me to work hard every day, i carry a copy of a 1905 speech by Theodore roosevelt entitled “The strenuous life.” 
“a mere life of ease is not in the end a very satisfactory life,” he pronounced. he wanted americans to remember their roots and what brought them to be leaders on the world stage. he further preached that life should be a strenu­ous endeavor with the goal ultimately being na­tional greatness, social harmony and economic prosperity. 
with their actions and rehashed rhetoric, the sole answer our politicians do not offer up as a solution is work. it takes work to understand each other and compromise. it takes work to maintain a democracy. it takes work to protest and advocate for real, healthy change that will result in a bright future for us all. “labor omnia vincit” means la­bor conquers all things. 
i am not a republican or a democrat, white or black, rich or poor. i am an american. as americans, we need to define our future based on good old american common sense, work ethic, faith and confidence that we can make our home and the world a better place. 
Mark Tarner is the president of the South Bend Chocolate Company. He is a former Indiana Business of the Year honoree. He can be reached through Mary Lane at maryl@sbchocolate.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

gun laws are not racist 
in his recent new york Times opinion piece, professor gary gutting of the notre dame philos­ophy department made the claim that not having stricter laws regarding gun control in this country is racist. 
he based his claim on the fact that african­americans are the victims of gun violence at a disproportionately high rate compared to white americans. he wrote that he was “not concerned about refuting the arguments of the gun lobby” (the term he uses to refer to supporters of the sec­ond amendment) and that as u.s. citizens we are all turning our backs on african-americans by allowing gun violence to continue to affect them in this way. 
had i written such an essay as a student in a philosophy class when i was at notre dame, i would likely have received an “F” for making such a broad accusation based on little substantia­tion and for not addressing valid contradicting arguments. 
african-americans being the victims of gun vio­lence at a higher rate than white americans does not mean gun control laws as we have them now are racist. 
dr. gutting throws out that controversial term in order to forward his anti-gun agenda. 
There are far more reasons why violent crime affects african-american communities dispropor­tionately. some of these include markedly higher unemployment rates, nearly 75 percent of births out of wedlock leading to single parent homes, a public educational system that caters more to the teachers unions than to the education of the children and a welfare state that perpetuates the cycle of poverty rather than breaking it. 
if our society is truly interested in helping people of color who are suffering in violent areas of the inner cities rather than accusing others of being racist, we should focus on truly ending pov­erty by fostering free market capitalism to lower unemployment, promoting the family as a proven anti-poverty unit, giving families more choice in the schools their children will attend and reduc­ing government dependency, which diminishes the dignity of the individual. 
Stephen O’Neil M.D. 
class of 1987 indianapolis Jan. 7 

consider veganism 
as the un climate change conference in paris recently came to a close, you may be considering ways in which you can make a positive environ­mental impact. 
There are certainly plenty of small changes every individual can make to help improve the world’s environment. if you are unsure of what you can do and want to take action, consider the impact of veganism. 
it is widely known that animal agriculture is one of the primary causes of global greenhouse-gas emissions. although the numbers vary by study, one recent study by the worldwatch institute de­termined that at least 51 percent of greenhouse gas emissions are caused by raising animals for food. 
even if you’re not one to consider a full-fledged vegan diet and lifestyle, you should at least consider the benefits of small changes. whether you decide to go vegan for a day, a week or life, know that you would be helping to make great strides towards a better world in more ways than one. 
Sean Perkins 
sophomore dec. 11 




CROSSWORD | will shorTZ 


JUST ADD WATER | eric carlson & John roddy 
SUDOKU | The mepham group 



HOROSCOPE | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: make the necessary changes to the relationships that are influencing your life the most. cutting ties with some people and joining forces with others will be instrumental in reaching your goals. you have to think about the end result and realize you cannot always make concessions in order to accommodate others, especially if you plan on being successful this year. your numbers are 4, 10, 22, 28, 35, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Tidy up loose ends and prepare for your upcoming week. it’s important to put the emphasis on your work and getting ahead. whether checking out new job prospects or updating your resume, raising your standard of living should be your intent. 


TAURUS (April 20-May 20): don’t start something you can’t finish or promise what you cannot deliver. Focus on self-improvement, changing your routine and being more health-conscious. romance will improve your state of mind and give your personal life a boost. 


GEMINI (May 21-June 20): do your best to please. go above and beyond the call of duty to make your surroundings comfortable and those you encounter feel at ease. avoid confrontations and emotional blackmail by sticking to the truth. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): The more you do for yourself and the less you rely on others, the easier it will be to avoid opposition and interference. accept the inevitable changes that come your way and focus on getting the most out of each moment. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): embrace change, adventure and whatever will bring you closer to your goals. don’t let someone else’s uncertainty daunt you. use what you know to your advantage and you will enjoy the comfort of gaining ground and securing your position. 


VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): withhold personal information until you feel you can share without being subject to ridicule. not everyone will understand or approve of your tactics. avoid an argument by refusing to disagree. Focus on you, not on what others are doing. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): venture into unknown territory. Try your hand at something new. get to know individuals who have something unique to offer. showing support or giving hands-on assistance will help you gain allies. share your personal opinion with someone who needs encouragement. 



SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): make personal changes to the way you live. explore new ways to give support to someone going through a difficult time. put love first, but don’t feel you have to spend money to win favors. moderation and discipline will bring good results. 


SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tread carefully when dealing with partners, family or anyone who can turn your life upside-down emotionally. you can accomplish a lot and stay out of trouble if you make home improvements that will add to your comfort and convenience. 


CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): say little and do a lot. criticizing won’t get you far, but encouragement will help you round up all the support and help you need to accomplish your goals. Think twice before spending. invest in you, not someone else. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): curb spending habits. set a budget, look over your personal papers and make sure you are on track. an opportunity to take part in an activity that will bring you clout or a chance to join forces with someone looks promising. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): emotional troubles will disrupt your plans and stifle your creative imagination. don’t get angry when you should be focusing on getting things done. getting along with others will make it much easier to be productive. be honest with yourself and others. 


Birthday Baby: you are amiable, appealing and interesting. 
JUMBLE | david hoyT and JeFF KnureK 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
make checks payable to and mail to: enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester  The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556  
name address city       state  Zip  


ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | The observer 

SPORTS AUTHORITY 

nick saban: best coach of all time 
Ryan Klaus 
sports writer 
on monday night, much to the displeasure of most col­lege football fans, alabama won yet another national championship — their fourth since 2009 — by de­feating previously undefeat­ed clemson, 45-40. 
as has been the case for all of the crimson Tide’s re­cent titles, head coach nick saban was the first to hoist alabama’s championship trophy, which happened to be the fifth he has earned as a college head coach (the other being with lsu during the 2003 season). after earning his fifth title, saban established himself as a candidate for the best college football coach of all-time. 
statistically, saban’s five titles are tied for the second most ever by a head coach with former yale and usc coach howard Jones and for­mer minnesota coach bernie bierman, both of whom peaked in the 1930s with five titles apiece. of course, former alabama legend paul “bear” bryant technically still has a numerical edge over saban, having earned six titles over the course of his career. 
while many fans, includ­ing alabama fans, may point to this statistic as evidence that saban is not superior to bryant, the truth is that saban surpassing bryant’s total is meaningless in the debate distinguishing be­tween the two coaches. simply put, saban’s five titles in the modern era are far more impressive than what bryant accomplished decades ago. 
in addition to the incon­trovertible fact that parity in college football is far more present in today’s game than in the past, making both winning games and recruit­ing much more difficult, the less decisive manner for discerning championships during bryant’s era certain­ly makes his case far less impressive as well. 
despite how controver­sial the bcs and the college Football playoff have been at times, they were both unequivocally better ways for selecting a champion than school’s claiming their own titles, which was the case when bryant coached. because of this, two of bryant’s champion­ship seasons actually ended with bowl losses. and while some of saban’s teams have had losses of their own, it is particularly dubious to con­vincingly call a team that ended its season with a loss a champion. 
in addition to this uncon­vincing manner of awarding titles, the aforementioned parity that exists in today’s game as well as the more demanding contemporary way of earning champion­ships should earn saban the authorative title as col­lege football’s best coach ever. For example, none of bryant’s teams had to play more than 12 games while saban’s have had to play at least 14 games three times and 15 games this season. 
some may discount saban’s success and cham­pionships because of the ob­vious flaws in the bcs that allowed him a rematch with lsu in 2011 or the strangle­hold that he has on college recruiting that consistently allows him to bring in top classes annually, but it is undeniable that saban has made the most of champion­ship game opportunities, having never lost a champi­onship game in his career. and, of course, his recruit­ing classes weren’t handed to him either. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles compete in Otterbien Tournament 
Observer Staff Report 

while most students were back home for winter break, saint mary’s was still out on the court. 
The belles (1-14, 1-5 miaa) fell to millikin, 73-60, on dec. 
19. senior forward eleni shea scored 20 points, a career-high, leading saint mary’s. The game featured 10 lead changes and was tied with only six minutes remain­ing. however, the belles’ of­fense was scoreless over that stretch, resulting in a loss. 
saint mary’s then had a brief break for christmas before returning to play dec. 28-29 at the otterbein Tournament in westerville, ohio. The belles played two games in the tourney, los­ing to otterbein, 78-67, and north central, 100-73. 
against the cardinals, the belles had five scorers in double figures, led by se­nior forward Krista Knapke with 18 points. shea and se­nior guard maddie Kohler were both perfect from the free throw line, shooting a combined 13-for-13 and contributing to the belles’ 90-percent night at the char­ity stripe. however, the belles were unable to overcome a 16-0 third-quarter run by the cardinals. 
against north central, ju­nior forward Kelsey ronan led saint mary’s with 22 points, but the belles were overmatched by the division iii leaders in points per game, as north central pulled away early. 
saint mary’s returned home Jan. 6 to face fourth-ranked hope but came away with another loss, 93-53. sophomore forward gabby diamond and shea both reached double-digits, and Kohler added seven assists. after a close first quarter, the Flying dutch broke out with a 10-2 run. The belles chipped into the deficit some in the second quarter, but the Flying dutch eventually pulled away. 
For their last game over break, the belles traveled to adrian for a matchup against the bulldogs on saturday but fell, 71-58. The teams traded the lead back and forth in the first half, and the belles were able to force 21 turnovers. despite the tough defense, the bulldogs held off a late saint mary’s comeback at­tempt and came out with the victory. 
The belles take on Kalamazoo on the road wednesday at 7:30 p.m. The hornets (5-9, 2-4) are coming off a win against alma, who saint mary’s defeated, 68-56, at home dec. 9. 
NFL 

Owners approve plan for Rams to move back to LA 
Associated Press

   The rams are moving back to los angeles, maybe with company. 
The san diego chargers and oakland raiders might end up staying put, although the leadership of both teams didn’t come close to making that commitment Tuesday night. or one of them could be headed to l.a., too. 
a long day of votes and re-votes ended with 30 of 32 nFl owners approving rams own­er stan Kroenke’s ambitious plan to move his team from st. louis to the site of the old hollywood park racetrack in inglewood, california, about 10 miles from downtown la. The chargers have a yearlong option to join the rams, fol­lowed by the raiders if the san diego franchise declines. 
The raiders and chargers had a competing proposal to share a new stadium in near­by carson, but neither option got the 24 votes needed for approval. after another ne­gotiating session in the after­noon, Kroenke’s $1.8 billion project prevailed. 
The decision ends the nFl’s 21-year absence from the na­tion’s second-largest media market. 

“i often said over those 21 years what we need is a great facility,” commissioner roger goodell said at a news con­ference about 11 hours after the meetings began. “i think what happened over the last years is we had two outstand­ing opportunities, both of these stadium projects were outstanding.” 
chargers chairman dean spanos was asked if he in­tended to play in los angeles in 2016. 
“i’m going to take a day off tomorrow i think,” spanos said. “This has really been excruciating for everyone. it’s very difficult to say right now i’m going to do this or do that.” 
oakland is still in debt from a renovation 20 years ago when the raiders moved back from los angeles. city officials have said they won’t seek help from taxpayers with a new stadium, and asked the nFl for more time to develop a project in a response to the raiders’ relocation plan. The nFl gave it to them. 
“we’ll see where the raider nation ends up here,” said owner mark davis, who was equally noncommittal in comments to reporters out­side the news conference. 
“we’ll be working really hard to find us a home. so for our fans and everything else, don’t feel bad. we’ll get it right.” 
ray perez, a 28-year-old raiders fan from sacramento who goes by the moniker dr. death, traveled to the houston meeting in his usual black hole garb and was cau­tiously optimistic after hear­ing the news. 
“i will not be completely, fully thrilled until the ink dries on paper and we know we’re staying in oakland in a new stadium,” perez said. “i’m very happy, very happy. but i’m not going to be overjoyed until we sign a stadium deal to keep the raiders in oakland with our own stadium.” 
The chargers play 120 miles south of inglewood in ag­ing Qualcomm stadium. The raiders played in los angeles from 1982-94 and currently split a facility with baseball’s athletics, the last remaining combination stadium. 
The rams — based in the la area from 1946-94 — will likely have a temporary home at the los angeles coliseum until the new stadium is ready in 2019. it’s unclear where the chargers would play if they move. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


Football 
conTinued From page 12 
season but was coaxed back to campus for the 2015 cam­paign. stanley is rated as one of the top two offensive line­men in this year’s draft class and a top-10 overall pick. 
prosise became the first irish player to declare his in­tent to enter the draft follow­ing the Fiesta bowl, posting a photo and farewell message to instagram on Jan. 2. 
“after a lot of thought and reflection i have decided to forego my remaining eli­gibility and declare for the nFl draft,” prosise wrote. “Thank you to notre dame, the coaches, staff, faculty and fans. i couldn’t have asked for a better university to play for, it’s been an honor to have played with Team 127 and i’m glad to have had the op­portunity. i look forward to what lies ahead. Thank you, go irish!!!” 
prosise had a breakthrough 2015 campaign, his first in the backfield after shifting from receiver to running back in the spring. despite being hampered by injuries late in the season, prosise finished 2015 with 1,032 yards on the ground, the first notre dame running back to eclipse the 1,000-yard mark since cierre wood in 2011. prosise found the end zone 11 times on the ground while adding an­other 308 yards and a score receiving. 
prosise ran for a career-high 198 yards and three touch­downs during notre dame’s 30-22 victory over georgia Tech on sept. 19 at notre dame stadium. he matched that touchdown total during his 129-yard performance against navy and eclipsed the 100-yard mark in games against virginia (155 yards), massachusetts (149 yards and two scores) and usc (143 yards and two touchdowns). 
prosise is projected as the no. 3 running back pros­pect, according to espn’s mel Kiper, behind ezekiel elliott of ohio state and heisman Trophy winner derrick henry of alabama. 
Fuller was the next to de­clare, releasing an official statement via Twitter on Jan. 3. 
“my heart truly wanted to return to notre dame, but it has also been a lifelong dream to play football in the nFl,” Fuller said in the state­ment. “after taking all of this into lengthy consideration, i believe it is in my best interest to forgo my senior season and enter the 2016 draft.” 
one of notre dame’s low-est-rated recruits in the high school class of 2017, Fuller broke out his sophomore season and continued that production this year. he led irish receivers in 2015 with 62 catches for 1,258 yards and 14 of notre dame’s 25 receiving touchdowns. a second-team ap all-american, he totaled triple-digit yardage totals in seven games this season, against Texas (142), virginia (124), georgia Tech (131), usc (131), pittsburgh (152), stanford (136) and ohio state (113). 

Known for his breakout speed, the philadelphia na­tive tallied nine touchdowns for 30 yards or more, along with game-winning scores against virginia and Temple. 
Fuller originally said nov. 11 he was returning to notre dame for his senior season, but after receiving feedback from the nFl draft advisory board, he said he was “keep­ing his avenues open” fol­lowing the team’s awards banquet dec. 11 before offi­cially declaring his intent to head to the draft. 
russell told sports illustrated he was leaving for the draft Jan. 4. in 11 starts this season, russell had 60 tackles, two interceptions, four pass breakups and two forced fumbles as the team’s top cornerback, before suf­fering a broken tibia against boston college on nov. 21 that ended his season. he is projected by several analysts as a second- or third-round pick. 
as a senior, russell had an­other year of eligibility after missing the entirety of the 2014 season due to an aca­demic investigation and sus­pension. had he returned to notre dame, he would have needed ncaa approv­al, something former team­mate ishaq williams, who was also involved in the aca­demic investigation, did not receive. however, russell told sports illustrated the ncaa approval was not a factor in his decision. 

because of his injury, russell said he would not par­ticipate in the physical drills at the nFl combine. instead, he will work out at notre dame’s pro day in march. 
smith was the final player to make his decision, which was complicated after he suffered what irish head coach brian Kelly called a “significant knee injury” during the first quarter of the Fiesta bowl. a consensus all-american along with stanley, smith was projected as a lock for a top-10 pick before the injury, accord­ing to multiple draft experts, but took his time before re­leasing a video announcing his plans on his Twitter ac­count monday. 
“i just want to thank ev­eryone for really having my back and trusting my deci­sion,” smith said in the video. “it’s really just perseverance from here. with the adversity i’m going through right now dealing with the knee injury, i have the same vision. it’s just a different path.” 
smith led the irish defense with 114 tackles this season, including nine tackles for loss. he also had a sack, a forced fumble and five pass breakups. 
smith led the 2014 irish squad with 112 tackles af­ter placing third on the team with 67 tackles during his freshman season in 2013, fin­ishing with 293 tackles for his career. 
smith has an insurance policy worth up to $5 mil­lion if he falls out of the first round, according to espn’s darren rovell. 
The nFl draft will be held april 28-30 in chicago. 

M Bball 
conTinued From page 12 
we need to continue to work on and get better at.” 
The inability to keep opposing offenses from scoring has been the achilles heel of this notre dame team all season. The stats perfectly tell the story. notre dame ranks 213th in the nation in points al­lowed per possession, 207th in defensive rebounds per game and 185th in opponent field-goal per­centage. who carries the respon­sibility for the irish to turn things around defensively? 
according to junior guard demetrius Jackson, it all lies on him and junior guard steve vasturia. 
“i think it’s going to be up to me and steve to get us started defen­sively,” Jackson said. “especially because that seems to be an area where we kind of struggle some­times in the beginning [of games]. so, we can talk about it as much as we want, but actually going out and making plays defensively, getting the stops, going and grabbing a big rebound, taking a charge. different things like that. we lead with our actions and our teammates will follow.” 
The message from the team was optimistic despite the recent struggles because they acknowl­edged the season is still young and dismissed any reason for anyone to panic. 
“it’s been up and down, but we know it’s going to be a long season,” auguste said. “i think it’s up to, not just the coaches, but the cap­tains. also continuing to remind the team that it’s going to be a long season. The acc is going to be a challenge. it’s not going to be easy, and nothing’s going to be handed to us.” 
on wednesday night the irish host georgia Tech, who is coming off a marquee 68-64 victory over no. 4 virginia on saturday. The yellow Jackets (11-5, 1-2 acc) have revitalized their offense this sea­son with the additions of seniors guard adam smith and forward nick Jacobs, transfers from virginia Tech and alabama, respectively. smith has averaged 14.8 points per game this season while Jacobs has contributed 10.1 points and 
5.7 boards per game. against the cavaliers, both led the team in scoring with 16 points apiece. 
despite being up against a pos­sible 1-3 start in acc play, irish head coach mike brey said he isn’t concerned about his team’s confidence. 
“we’re going to be loose, and we’re going to play,” brey said. “i think it’s more important for us to really bounce back. we’ve done this before. This group has been good of bouncing back after dis­appointment. we’re in that mode again, and we’re playing a much-improved georgia Tech team, who’s like pitt with graduate trans­fers and really reinvented them­selves on the offensive end of the floor.” 
even with the majority of the sea­son still in play, it could be a cause for concern for the irish if they fall to the yellow Jackets. since 2010, no acc team has won the regular sea­son or acc tournament title with more than four losses in confer­ence play, which would mean that notre dame would have to finish the season 13-1 to be in contention for a conference championship. 
“i’m always talking to the young­er guys,” Jackson said. “Talking to [auguste]. The whole team. we gotta continue to work hard, keep a positive mind and positive things will follow. i think we’re getting better. That’s one thing i’ve no­ticed about our team. we’re doing some really good things. not turn­ing the ball over. we’re turning the ball over a lot less. so there’s a lot of positives to take away from our game, but at the end of the day we just gotta get wins.” 
notre dame hosts georgia Tech at purcell pavilion on wednesday night in their second-consecutive home conference matchup — the game tips at 9 p.m. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | The observer 

can score,” she said. geno auriemma, duke’s 
The irish built a 3-0 lead in 

Hockey 
W Bball 
The win over the Tar mike Krzyzewski and north 
the second game of the home­

conTinued From page 12 
conTinued From page 12 

heels was the sixth the irish carolina’s dean smith. 
and-home series the next night 

collected over the winter after earning that mile-
in Kalamazoo, michigan, but 

Tar heel defenders to the break and their eighth con-stone, the team rolled to a 
in denver. petersen earned the broncos scored three third-
basket and drew contact. secutive following their 74-46 victory over virginia 
hockey east defensive player period goals to force a 3-3 tie as 
ogunbowale was also a per-dec. 5 road loss to no. 1 in charlottesville last 
of the week for his performance notre dame capped its noncon­
fect 4-for-4 from the free-connecticut. Thursday before topping 
in net, his second such honor of ference schedule. 
throw line. during the break from north carolina on sunday. 
the year and the fourth of his bjork missed the denver se­
career. ries while representing the 
“i’m just playing, doing classes, they all but irish players, coaches 
irish senior left wing sam united states at the iihF world 
whatever i can to help the wrapped up their noncon-and fans marked mcgraw’s 
team,” ogunbowale said. ference schedule with vic-milestone with a pregame 
herr notched the game-tying Junior championships in 
“i just love the way tories against mcgraw’s ceremony sunday. mcgraw, 
goal with 30 seconds remaining helsinki, where he and Team 
[ogunbowale] plays,” alma mater, st. Joseph’s, standing at center court 
in the second contest against usa brought home the bronze 
the pioneers. medal. The americans defeated 
mcgraw said. “when she by a score of 91-55 on dec. alongside her husband, 
notre dame returned to the the swedes to claim bronze, 8-3, 
gets the ball in the open 21 and pulled out a nail-matt, received a commemo­
midwest last weekend for a in a game in which bjork tal­
floor, especially coming full biter against no. 12 oregon rative ball presented by her 
home-and-home series with lied two goals and was awarded 
court, something good’s state, 62-61, on dec. 28. assistants, as fans held up 
former ccha rival western Team usa’s player of the game 
gonna happen, and she’s The irish have one more signs simply reading, “800.” 
michigan, the team the irish award. The boston bruins pros-
gonna get to the free-throw non-acc game remain-“it was a really emotional 
line. she’s gonna score a lot ing, a matchup with no. 13 moment for me,” mcgraw 
beat to kick off their eight-pect tallied three points on 
game unbeaten streak in the three goals while appearing in 
of points. she’s a great pass-Tennessee next monday at said. “Just to look up and 
final game of the shillelagh all seven games of the tourna­
er also, so she’s really, really purcell pavilion. see all the fans and know 
tough to defend. she’s really Two days later, notre that they’ve been here for 
Tournament on nov. 28. The ment for the u.s. 
coming into her own.” dame opened its acc so many of those wins. To 
irish returned to the friendly notre dame hits the ice to 
ogunbowale was one schedule by taking an 85-look up and see my friends 
confines of compton Family ice resume hockey east play when 
of four notre dame play-76 home matchup against and of course matt. i want-
arena on Friday and responded it hosts merrimack on Friday 
ers in double-figure scor-georgia Tech, and the team ed him to be out there en-
with one of their best offensive and saturday night at compton 
performance of the season, Family ice arena. The puck is 
ing, along with Turner, helped mcgraw earn her joying it because he’s been 
drubbing the broncos, 7-1. scheduled to drop Friday night 
graduate student guard 800th win at pittsburgh in there for every one of them. 
all 12 notre dame forwards at 7:35 p.m., while play saturday 
madison cable (12) and a 65-55 contest against the “it was a really special 
freshman guard marina panthers. moment and one that i will 
recorded a point in the contest, will start at 7:05 p.m. 
mabrey (14). with the win, mcgraw be-treasure.” 
which included a highlight-reel The irish have six conference 
Tar heels head coach came just the fifth college The irish next hit the 
goal from sophomore left wing series remaining in their sea­
sylvia hatchell, another coach, men’s or women’s, road to face boston college 
anders bjork. bjork carried the son, in addition to one game at 
puck down the right boards, home against boston college. 
member of the 800-win club, all-time to accumulate at on Thursday at conte 
blowing around a bronco de-notre dame currently sits third 
said that balance of power least 800 career wins, sev-Forum in chestnut hill, 
presented a challenge to her en trips to the Final Four massachusetts. 
fenseman before driving to the in the hockey east standings 
team on defense. and five title game appear-
front of the net and snapping with 14 points, trailing umass 
“They’ve got so many ances, joining Tennessee’s Contact Mary Green at 
a shot just under the crossbar lowell by three points and 
nearside. boston college by  two. 
weapons. so many of them pat summitt, connecticut’s mgreen8@nd.edu 
paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

McGraw reaches 800 wins 
By MARY GREEN 
assistant managing editor 
a week after the fact, the irish were finally able to cel­ebrate head coach muffet mcgraw’s 800th victory sunday on their home court at purcell pavilion. 
less than two hours later, mcgraw had easily collected win no. 802, as no. 3 notre dame rolled to an 88-54 vic­tory over north carolina. 
The head coach said that, 16 games into its season, her team is finally hitting its stride. 
“i’m really happy. i think that we’re playing really well,” mcgraw said after the game. “we’re really starting to gel as a team. i think we’re finding our comfort zone.” 
besides a few back-and­forth baskets to open the matchup, notre dame (15­1, 4-0 acc) was never re­ally threatened by north carolina (12-6, 2-1), espe­cially in the paint, where the irish dominated the Tar heels with a 50-14 scoring advantage. 
sophomore forward brianna Turner, who said she is finally playing with no pain after a late november shoulder injury, led the charge down low with 11 points, nine rebounds, five blocks and several more al­tered shots. 
“it’s great to have her, not just because of what she does around the basket, but she can guard on the pe­rimeter as well, and she can come out and guard 3-point shooters, she can guard the point guard,” mcgraw said of Turner. “she gives us that great versatility to be able to use her on the perimeter. we can switch some screens if we needed to, so i’m really pleased with her defense.” 
Freshman guard arike ogunbowale led notre dame on offense with 16 points, many of which came on la­yups as she weaved through 
see w bball PAGE 11 
FOOTBALL 

Five Notre Dame players declare for NFL draft 
Observer Staff Report 
in early december, notre dame 
submitted five names to the nFl 
draft advisory board for grading. 
all five players declared for april’s 2015 nFl draft. 
Junior linebacker Jaylon smith, 
senior offensive tackle ronnie 
stanley, senior running back 
c.J. prosise, senior cornerback Keivarae russell and junior re­ceiver will Fuller all announced their intentions to enter the draft and forego their remaining eligi­bility at notre dame. 
stanley said he would enter the draft dec. 21, per csn chicago’s JJ stankevitz, but the four other players waited until the days following notre dame’s 44-28 loss to ohio state in the Fiesta bowl on Jan. 1 to announce their decisions. 
stanley, a consensus all­american this season, started all 39 games at left tackle for the irish over the last three seasons. he contemplated de­claring for the draft after last 
see FooTball PAGE 10 


HOCKEY 

Notre Dame extends unbeaten streak to eight 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 13 notre dame pushed its unbeaten streak to eight games over winter break as it finished off its nonconference schedule. 
The irish (10-4-7, 6-1-2 hockey east) upset then-no. 3 boston college on the road dec. 10 with a trio of third period goals. 
sophomore defenseman Jordan gross drew notre dame within a goal on a shot from the point just shy of halfway through the fi­nal regulation period. Freshman center andrew oglevie snapped a wrist shot home to tie the game with fewer than five minutes re­maining, and freshman defense-man dennis gilbert’s slap shot put the irish in front with just 22 sec­onds remaining to complete the comeback. 
sophomore goalie cal petersen pushed the irish wining streak to four games the following week­end, stopping 92 of no. 17 denver’s 95 shots on goal (.968 save per­centage) as the two teams skated to a pair of ties. The game ended 1-1 on new year’s day and 2-2 the following day at magness arena 
see hocKey PAGE 11 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 
irish struggle to find consistency 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports writer 
sixth in the nation in field-goal percentage. Fourth-lowest turnover rate. Third in offensive efficiency. 
sounds like a championship-caliber team right? 
well, notre dame went 3-3 over the break bringing its overall record to 10-5 and 1-2 in the acc. 
The irish have one of the most efficient offenses in the country, so what’s been missing? 
in the crossroads classic against indiana last month, the irish held a 10-point lead at half­time while shooting 53.1 percent from the field. in the second half, the hoosiers (14-3, 4-0 big Ten) stormed back from a 16-point deficit and outscored the irish 17-2 in the final six-and-a-half minutes of the game to win 80-73. 
against the then fifth-ranked cavaliers, notre dame had four players in double figures while shooting 48 percent from the field as a team. The irish also won the three-point battle against the cavaliers (13-3, acc 2-2), connecting on seven shots from long distance to virginia’s four shots. however, the irish allowed virginia to go on a 21-4 run in the first half that propelled the cavaliers to a safe lead for the majority of the night. They also converted 57.1 percent of their field goal attempts to hold that lead and eventually win 77-66. 
saturday, notre dame com­mitted just three turnovers, shot 
57.1 percent from the field and scored 40 points in the paint. but pittsburgh matched the irish with just three turnovers, shot 59.4 percent from the field and knocked down 10 three-pointers. despite notre dame’s attempts at making a comeback in a game that saw the panthers (14-1, 3-0 acc) take an 18-point lead on two separate occasions, pittsburgh held on for an 86-82 win. 
“i think it’s us doing things together for 40 minutes,” senior forward Zach auguste said. “we got to do things for full games. sometimes we tend to be lacka­daisical on defense. sometimes we take big shots on offense. That’s just playing hard for 40 minutes, and that’s something 
see m bball PAGE 10 




