The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 97 | tuesday, February 23, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
town halls address facilities, diversity 
Administration discusses campus-wide changes 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
news writer 
after receiving consistently low ratings from both students and faculty, university executive vice president John affleck­graves announced the burger king in the laFortune student center will be replaced next fall. 
“The scores on our services were incredibly varied, and burger king has scored very low for the second time in a row,” affleck-graves said during monday’s spring faculty town hall meeting in washington hall. “so we’re going to be mak­ing a change there this summer. we will certainly have some­thing new coming in and replac­ing burger king.” 
affleck-graves also said plans were underway to improve other facilities, particularly the decio Faculty commons. 
beyond facility improvements on campus, affleck-graves said the current campus construc­tion is progressing as scheduled, for the most part. 
“i think most of you have noticed a little bit of build­ing going on on campus,” he said. “courtney hall is near­ing completion; it will open this august. The hesburgh library 
see spring PaGe 3 




Faculty reflect on inclusion initiatives at ND 
By CATHERINE OWERS 
associate news editor 
“we have not only top-down focus, but we have bot­tom-up momentum. when you have one or the other, it’s hard to get that change. but when you have both, you at least have the prom­ise of change,” hugh page, vice president and associate provost for undergraduate affairs, as well as the dean of the first year of studies program, said in a town hall on diversity and inclusion monday evening. 
The event was sponsored by the diversity council and featured a panel of adminis­trators including page, erin hoffmann harding, vice president for student affairs, maureen dawson, assis­tant dean in the first year of studies program, and maura ryan, associate provost and vice president for faculty af­fairs. The panel was mod­erated by John duffy, the Francis o’malley director of the university writing program and associate pro­fessor of english. 
in his opening remarks, student body president bryan 
see diversiTy PaGe 4 




Artist explores injustice through monologues 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
news writer 
as part of the annual margaret m. hill endowed visiting artist performance, anna deavere smith gave a lecture and performance ti­tled “From rodney king to michael brown: The narrative of Ferguson,” in which she performed monologues from her first play, “Twilight: los angeles,” and her most recent project on the school-to-pris­on pipeline — the practices that push at-risk youth out of schools and into the criminal justice system. 
professor of Theatre katie sullivan introduced smith. she said smith was the first visit­ing artist when the endowment began in 2006, so it was appro­priate to invite her back for the 10th anniversary, especially in light of recent racial tensions in america. 
“as we have watched our country struggle with racial division and inequality once again these last two years — from Ferguson to baltimore, and cleveland, and then chicago — it seemed a good time to hear from [smith] again,” sullivan said. “she has the wonderful capacity to engage in conversations and ultimately to listen carefully to everyone as she carves out space for us to understand each other on complex and distress­ing national issues that involve us all politically, racially and culturally.” 
smith said she travels around the country and interviews different people who were in­volved in or who witnessed dif­ferent racial injustices. 
“my grandfather told me when i was a girl, ‘if you say a word often enough, it becomes,’” smith said. “For the last many years, i’ve been going around america with a tape recorder trying to become america word for word by re­peating what people say and putting myself in other peo­ple’s words, the way you would put yourself in someone else’s shoes.” 
smith said the excerpts from her plays focused on law en­forcement and education. she said she would perform pieces from her play from 1992 and from her most recent play to show how tensions have not necessarily changed over the years. 
“one of the things that plagues america from time to time is the relationship be­tween law enforcement and individuals,” smith said. “ … we also haven’t really gotten over the sort of chasm between social classes and races, which means some people are left out­side of opportunity.” 
according to smith, her first play focused on the riots that ensued after the killing of rodney king by los angeles police officers was captured 
see Ferguson PaGe 3 






Have a question you want answered? 
Email photo@ndsmcobserver.com


QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
ndsmcobserver.com If you could add one person to Mount Rushmore, who would it be? 
p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556 
Editor-in-Chief 

Anna Fiszer 
greg hadley 
freshman 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
mccandless hall
 Jack rooney cristina gutierrez 
“yeezy, because he’s a part of the
Asst. Managing Editor: mary green 

Asst. Managing Editor: wei lin 
50 percent.” 
News Editor: margaret hynds Viewpoint Editor: Tabitha ricketts Sports Editor: Zach klonsinski 
Scene Editor: erin mcauliffe Saint Mary’s Editor: haleigh ehmsen Photo Editor: Zach llorens 


Emma McCarthy
Graphics Editor: erin rice Multimedia Editor: wei cao 
junior 
Online Editor: Jimmy kemper 
le mans hall
Advertising Manager: mariah villasenor Ad Design Manager: marisa aguayo Controller: emily reckmeyer 
“susan b. anthony because of 
her work in the women’s suffrage
Office Manager & General Info 
ph: (574) 631-7471 
movement.” 
Fax: (574) 631-6927 

Advertising 
(574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com 

Editor-in-Chief 


Li Chen 
(574) 631-4542 ghadley@nd.edu 
freshman 
Managing Editor 
regina hall
(574) 631-4542 jrooney1@nd.edu 

Assistant Managing Editors 
“Zhao liyin, she does a very
(574) 631-4541 mgreen8@nd.edu, wlin4@nd.edu 
good job in movies. she is a hard 

Business Office 
worker and worth the praise.” 
(574) 631-5313 

News Desk 
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com 



Adriana Ledesma 
senior 
le mans hall 
“lin-manuel miranda.” 

Monica Davy 
freshman 
regina hall 
“midore, the women’s tennis coach, because she rocks and our team motto is, ‘live like midore.’” 

Cat Murad 
sophomore 
holy cross hall 
“James Franco because he’s funny and nice to look at.” 
Viewpoint Desk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com 


Want your event included here?
Sports Desk 
(574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com 


Email news@ndsmcobserver.com



THE NEXT FIVE DAYS:
Scene Desk 
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com 


Saint Mary’s Desk 

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
hehmes01@saintmarys.ed 
Photo Desk 

(574) 631-8767 photo@smcndobserver.com Spring Town Hall Theater: “The Bear” Mindful Meditation Winter Concert Axiom Brass Systems & Web Administrators Washington Hall and “Afterplay” Coleman-Morse DeBartolo Performing DeBartolo Performing
(574) 631-8839 

11 a.m.-12 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Center Arts Center Arts Center Fr. Jenkins shares Arts Center 5:15 p.m.-6:15 p.m. 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 7:30 p.m.-9 p.m.
Policies 

The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published information pertaining 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Open to students of all Notre Dame Brass chamber music in print and online by the students of the university of notre 
to staff and students. Two comedies. faiths. Symphony Orchestra. is performed. 
dame du lac and saint mary’s college. editorial content, 
including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves Bengal Bouts “The Life of Jesus” Women’s Basetball Father Hesburgh Praise and Worship the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Semifinals Coleman-Morse vs. Clemson Memorial Concert Night 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
Joyce Center Center Purcell Pavilion Basilica of the Sacred Coleman-Morse 
possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-8 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Heart Center managing editors and department editors. commentaries, 
All funds go to Holy Discuss Jesus’ The Irish take on the 8 p.m.-9 p.m. 7 p.m.-9 p.m. 
letters and columns present the views of the authors and not 
Cross Missions. relevance to today. Tigers. Honor Fr. Hesburgh. Prayer and fellowship. 
necessarily those of The observer. 

viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact 
information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to 
SMC hosts Love Your Body Week 
Editor-in-Chief Greg Hadley. 
post office information 

The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday stay away from the mirror,” dingler said. for belles to support a fellow belle,” dingler
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one news writer sga also sponsored power yoga in angela said. semester. 
The observer is published at: athletic Facility. For “Thankful Thursday,” saint mary’s 
024 south dining hall 

notre dame, in 46556-0779 saint mary’s student government on “no makeup Tuesday,” students students are encouraged to reflect on the 
periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices 
posTmasTer association (sga) is hosting its sixth an-can flaunt their natural look by post-personal traits for which they are most 
send address corrections to: 

The observer nual love your body week to foster posi-ing makeup free selfies on social media thankful. a saint mary’s nutritionist will 
p.o. box 779 

024 south dining hall tive self-images among members of the with the hashtag #everybodyisbeautiful. run an interactive “Family Feud”-style 
notre dame, in 46556-077 

The observer is a member of the associated press. campus community. There will also be a panel discussion held game during lunch, in addition to prepar­
all reproduction rights are reserved. 

love your body week (lybw) was in vander vennet Theatre from 7 p.m. to 8 ing snacks and providing tips to students planned by juniors mary Joy dingler and p.m., co-sponsored by project heal. on how to make healthy snacks in their Jenna wozniak, sga’s social concerns wozinak encouraged students to come own dorm rooms. co-chairs. listen to speakers on the panel, such as “Fitness Friday” urges students to post

“The mission of this week is to instill a bettina spencer, an associate professor of a “gym selfie,” incorporating the lybw strong sense of confidence in the young psychology at saint mary’s. hashtag. sga will offer desserts and make-
News Sports 

katie galioto alex carson women of saint mary’s,” dingler said. “so “i feel that the panel discussion will be up bag decorating in reignbeaux lounge selena ponio hunter mcdaniel 
many girls deal with insecurities about a really beneficial event for students to at-from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Jenna wilson maureen schweninger 
their bodies, and love your body week tend as some fellow students will be shar-wozniak said she hopes the week will be 
Graphics Scene 

is a fantastic way to make young women ing some of their stories and experiences a chance for students to challenge stereo­
eric richelsen kelly mcgarry 
feel comfortable with themselves. There’s with body image,” she said. “along with types, especially those rooted in the media.
Photo Viewpoint 

absolutely nothing wrong with being a the students, both professor spencer, as “i am hoping that students will walk
emmet Farnan austin Taliaferro 
confident young woman, and love your well as kate barron from the health and away from this week with a renewed sense body week gives girls a safe space to em-counseling center, will be there to share of empowerment and self-love,” she said. brace their figures and feel unashamedly some insight on eating disorders and how “i think that it is easy to forget how much
Corrections 

confident.” they relate to our community.” we accomplish everyday and to sometimes 
The observer regards itself as This year’s lybw is unique because students are encouraged to dress let the little things get to you. i think that a professional publication and 
each day follows a theme that encourages down for “comfy clothes wednesday.” above everything, this week celebrates the strives for the highest standards 
students to embrace their bodies through wednesday evening will feature a presen-beauty of all women and how that is a char-
of journalism at all times. we do, 
student interaction, camaraderie and tation on health and fitness given by diana acteristic that everyone should take pride
however, recognize that we will make 
empowerment. matuszak, a current saint mary’s senior. in”. 
mistakes. if we have made a mistake, 
The week kicked off with “mirror-less “[matuszak] has her own fitness page on
please contact us at (574) 631-4541 so monday,” in which students were encour-instagram, and she is extremely inspira-Contact Allison Sanchez at
we can correct our error. aged to “embrace their self-confidence and tional, so it will be an awesome opportunity asanch01@saintmarys.edu 

ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, Feburary 23, 2016 | The observer 


spring 
conTinued From page 1 
renovations are just spectacu­lar. i’d suggest you go and have a look, if you haven’t already.” 
The move-in dates of campus crossroads are pro­jected to start in august 2017 and end in may 2018, ac­cording to recent estimates, affleck-graves said. 
“The duncan Family student center is slightly be­hind schedule, but we plan on having that open and moved in by december 2017,” he said. 
at the Town hall, university president Fr. John Jenkins an­nounced several additional employee benefits to be im­plemented in the next year. 
“notre dame is great for so many reasons — for our great students, for the education we offer, for its research capacity and for so many things to be proud of. but i’m particularly proud of the people who work here,” Jenkins said. “we want to continue to make this place a truly great place to work at, a place where you feel supported.” 
The first of these upcoming changes is an “enhanced edu­cation benefit.” 
“it’s important for you, and the people that work here, to get the education you need to do the work you do. and it’s good for us if you do that as well, so we want to help you do that,” Jenkins said. “we’ve had an education benefit, but this is enhanced, so we’re providing an opportunity for people to enhance their skills and improve their education in particular areas.” 
according  to  robert  
mcQuade,  vice  president  
of  human  resources,  the  

university currently provides up to $1,500 per year to cover additional education costs. 
“That was last changed in 2008. we are going to increase that to $3,000 starting in July. For job certifications, we’re going to increase from $750 to $1,000, and for the first time, we’re going to include doctor­al programs and courses,” he said. “we believe that this will continue to enhance develop­ment opportunities for all of our employees, and we’re very pleased with this.” 
beyond this, mcQuade introduced a partnership with bright horizons care advantage to help provide as­sistance to faculty whose fam­ily members require care. 
“i know a number of you have children or others that you need to take care of, and often that creates challenges for you on some occasions.” Jenkins said. “This is a pro­gram that will provide help for you to care for those people in your care, when those occa­sions arise.” 
additionally, the university will help provide short-term income for faculty in need. 
“short-term income re­placement is another impor­tant thing, in times of injury or sickness or a new child in the family, and if you need some kind of income replace­ment, this program will pro­vide that,” Jenkins said. 
mcQuade also announced a four-week paid leave for new parents, whether due to birth or adoption. 
“Families are important,” Jenkins said. “we want to provide support for parents as they welcome a new child into their family and care for that child and work with that transition into parenthood.” 
due to the university’s ongoing commitment to mitigating climate change, affleck-graves said they plan to begin utilizing and im­proving the dam at st. Joseph river for hydraulic power. 
“we’re also working with 

paid adverTisemenT 

south bend and the federal authorities to use the dam on the river downtown for hydraulic energy,” affleck­graves said. “we’re working with the federal authorities to help us do that, and it will save us eight percent of our costs to do that, which makes a lot of financial sense. what this does is makes a signifi­cant impact on our carbon output.” 
overall, affleck-graves said he was impressed with the changes and looks forward to making more improvements. 
“we do want to confirm our areas of strength. i know we can get complacent, but i want us to keep doing these things well. i have also high­lighted areas of improvement, so we can see how we can do better, and we will do better,” affleck-graves said. 
Contact Rachel O’Grady at  rogrady@nd.edu 
Ferguson 
conTinued From page 1 
on film and spread worldwide. similarly, her most recent play fo­cuses on the riots that ensued af­ter the killing of Freddie gray by baltimore police officers was cap­tured with a smartphone camera and broadcasted to the world. smith performed as stanley sheinbaum, elaine young, cornel west, keith godfrey, kevin moore and michael Tubbs — all people she had interviewed — to illus­trate the experiences of people who have been pushed to the edges of society. 
“i want to look at this because it’s sort of remarkable that it keeps happening,” smith said. “The question is: are there things that we here in this room … can do in our own lives to keep things from happening?” 
she said her performances are not about the police officers, cit­ing a speech by president barack obama in which he said fixing the problem does not start with trying to fix the officers. 
“This is really a problem of pov­erty,” smith said. “it’s a problem of who is left behind. The cops in many ways are here for all of us 
— including me — to protect us against the possibility that those who are disenfranchised will harm us, our property or our loved ones. They are in the trenches to protect us, so we need to get it to­gether and do something about this gap that we have.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | tuesday, February 23, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

diversity 
conTinued From page 1 
ricketts said the university has a “checkered history” on inclusion and diversity efforts. 
“our university chose not to admit women until 1972. its first black student came in by accident through a navy training program that assumed he was white. even within the past five years, gaining full recognition for our lgbTQ students took, in part, a sustained student movement, and many of the initiatives you will hear about tonight owe some of their urgency to the call to action, a collective action that began after the black student association and african student association found fried chicken parts in their mailboxes,” he said. 
exploring pathways for­ward on issues of diversity and inclusion will require sustained dialogue, ricketts said. 
“The initiatives that will be presented tonight have been praised by some fac­ulty and students for being a clearly demonstrated com­mitment to progress and criticized by others for be­ing too little and too late,” he said. “Finding a path for­ward that respects both of these viewpoints is a chal­lenge accepted by our pre­senters, and i would like to thank them for their dem­onstrated commitment to these issues. 
“but i am hopeful that at a university whose mission statement ‘requires, and is enriched by, the pres­ence and voices of diverse scholars and students’ and perhaps more importantly ‘prides itself on being an environment of teaching and learning that fosters the development in its stu­dents,’ together, we will be able to fully realize its call to be a home of learning and growth for all members of the human family.” 
diversity recommendations 
hoffmann harding said the division of student af­fairs adopted a set of 21 di­versity recommendations in the spring of 2014, as a result of 160 interviews conducted with students, faculty and staff, and prompted by data from surveys on student sat­isfaction with campus life. 
notre dame students ex­perience a level of overall satisfaction that is signifi­cantly higher than the av­erage of peer institutions, however, in regards to di­versity, students experience a level of satisfaction that is much lower than the average of these peer institutions, hoffmann harding said. 
“in every single group, including i might add, majority students, white students, our satisfaction with the level of diversity on our campus is much lower than our peers’,” she said. “i’d like to look, in part, on that result as a shared vi­sion … we all know we can benefit from a more diverse environment here at notre dame.” 
The 21 diversity recom­mendations are re-evalu­ated every six months and grouped into four catego­ries, hoffmann harding said. 
“i make no representation, however, that they are per­fect, nor the complete and total and final answer as to how we will ultimately will hesburgh, c.s.c. award. 
Moreau First-year experience 
page said the moreau First-year experience was cre­ated in a four-year process, that included “brainstorm­ing, conversation, reflec­tion and strategic planning.” The creation of the moreau First-year experience was centered around basil moreau’s vision of educa­tion, as an enterprise that is “helping young people to completeness.” 
“The goal of the entire process was to address one simple question: what can we do to welcome and ori­ent, over an extended period 

“In every single group, including I might add, majority students, white students, our satisfaction with the level of diversity on our campus is much lower than our peers’. I’d like to look, in part, on that result as a shared vision ... we all know we can benefit from a more diverse environment here at Notre Dame.” 
Erin Hoffman Harding vice president for student affairs 
meet that climate result — which is what i would ulti­mately love to see,” she said. “it’s a list that should and must continue to evolve and change.” 
The goal of the recommen­dations in the first group is to improve the presence and readiness of division of stu­dent affairs staff to serve a diverse student body, she said. 
The goal of the second group of recommenda­tions is to augment servic­es offered by multicultural student programs and services (msps), and the goal of the third group of recommendations is sup­port for students with high socioeconomic need. 
“remember, we walked into this endeavor and this study by looking at results that were cut by race and ethnicity,” she said. “ ... what we heard from many students is ‘hey, you’re missing something in terms of welcome and inclusion on campus,’ and that’s that students, regardless of their ethnicity, might not feel wel­come on this campus or feel that they’re able to succeed as quickly as possible be­cause they come from a very distinct and different set of economic circumstances.” 
The goal of the fourth group of recommenda­tions is a visible commit­ment to diversity, which includes posting the “spirit of inclusion” statement in residence halls and student affairs offices, as well as honoring a graduating se­nior who promoted a spirit of diversity and inclusion dur­ing his or her time on cam­pus with the rev. Theodore of time, notre dame’s new­est students?” he said. “and to do so in a way that is con­sistent with the educational charism of the congregation of holy cross, and that in­vites everyone to be part of a larger project that involves the building of a diverse and welcoming community, in which students are broadly attentive to issues of well­ness, intellectual climate, discernment and the like.” 
dawson said the moreau First year experience is structured so the topic of di­versity is addressed multiple times throughout the aca­demic year. 
“we wanted to build into moreau a sense of weekly conversation and iterative learning, that topics that are important come back in dif­ferent ways across the year,” she said. 
The tenor of the course is one of “welcome and inclu­sion,” dawson said, continu­ing themes emphasized in welcome weekend. 
“welcome weekend, that first contact at notre dame, was really about under­standing this place, getting to know people and hopeful­ly getting a sense of how to make a mark, how to make a notre dame experience both an individual statement and one of unity,” she said. 
a primary goal of the moreau First-year experience, going forward, page said, will be greater training of instructors to fa­cilitate “difficult” conversa­tions on topics like diversity and inclusion. 
“what we really put in place is kind of a revolution­ary teaching concept: the idea that the person who serves as the instructor in the classroom, will not nec­essarily be the expert … but 
paid adverTisemenT 
in many respects be a fellow traveler with you,” he said. 
Office of the Provost 
ryan said initiatives in the office of the provost to increase diversity and in­clusion among faculty have been informed by a 2013 cli­mate survey. The office has hired a director for academ­ic diversity and inclusion, who will begin in april. 
“all of us in the provost’s office consider diversity and inclusion to be our most sig­nificant initiative this year,” she said. “we engaged since last summer in broad diver­sity and inclusion training for our academic leaders, and we will continue that endeavor.” 
provosts, deans, institute directors and department chairs have participated in training programs so far, ryan said. 
“our hope is to expand that training to wider circles of faculty and, in particular, faculty that are involved in search committees, com­mittees on appointments and promotions, faculty who are serving on provost’s advisory council,” she said. “i think what was particu­larly helpful was what are the particular challenges here at notre dame in iden­tifying issues of inclusion and exclusion, in issues of diversity.” 
Contact Catherine Owers at  cowers@nd.edu 


The observer | tuesday, February 23, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

By JOHN AHN 
scene writer 

with the successful release of “deadpool,” the movie industry has marched out of the tunnel with great ex­pectations in 2016. lucky for action-lovers, hollywood seems posed to continue deliv­ering films that will indulge our eyes with cgis and heroic battles. To further fuel the excitement, preview trailers are flooding the popular media. here are some first im­pressions of the upcoming blockbusters. 
“Gods of egypt” (Feb. 26) 

a fantasy-action blockbuster featur­ing brenton Thwaites (“maleficent”), “gods of egypt” tells a story of a thief named bek who accompanies horus, played by nikolaj coster-waldau (“game of Thrones”), on his mission to save the world. gerard butler (“300”) plays the evil 
By MATT McMAHON 
scene writer 

over animal collective’s most recent 10 years as a band, the one-time brooklyn darlings have systematically released a short ep or single between each of their ma­jor albums to bridge stylistic gaps and hint at the musical direction of their subsequent album. 
collaboration in 2005’s “prospect hummer” with vashti bunyan bridged the acoustic freak folk of “sung Tongs” with the baroque “Feels”; 2006’s “people” merged the patience of “Feels” with the abrasiveness of “strawberry Jam”; 2008’s “water curses” took the erratic digitality of “strawberry Jam” and contextualized it in the aque­ous production and pop harmonies that dominate “merriweather post pavilion” and 2012’s “honeycomb / gotham” took “merriweather post pavilion’s” pop perfec­tion and twisted it with the jumpy am/Fm sampling of “centipede hz.” because of their ever-changing interests, the group’s rigid schedule of album-ep-album was one of the only consistent qualities of their output — besides quirk, earnestness and quality. 
comparatively, 2013’s “monkey been to burn Town” comprised exclusively of re­mixes of the two tracks from previous al­bum “centipede hz” referred to in its title, was extremely noncommittal and unin­formative in terms of the band’s next steps. when the new album “painting with” was announced in late 2015, there was little indi­cation of what to expect. 
That is until they preempted the studio album’s release with concert album “live at 9:30,” a two-hour epic featuring jam god set who dethrones horus to overtake egypt before creatively enslaving the en­tire population. in order to save human­ity, bek and horus must battle their way through egypt by killing computer-gen­erated mythical monsters. while the plot seems comically similar to every single other action blockbuster movie, butler’s distinguished expertise in playing an an­cient warrior is enough reason to buy a ticket for this weekend. “gods of egypt” will also provide a much-needed dose of coster-waldau’s unfairly handsome looks before “game of Thrones” relaunches in april. 
“London Has Fallen” (March 4) 
evidently, gerard butler didn’t get enough screen-time in “gods of egypt,” so he returns as secret agent mike benning in this modern thriller. Following a series of devastating terrorist attacks, the u.s. 
versions averaging 10 minutes of songs off each of their albums from the past de­cade. This move served to wrap up their seemingly concluded previous phase and usher in a new one. within that frame, the album would represent a significant depar­ture for animal collective’s well seasoned members. 
This departure most explicitly takes form in the album’s structure (“painting with” is by far the group’s shortest, most straight­forward production) and vocal ambitions (every song tackles harmonies heavily in­debted to band member panda bear’s solo record from last year, but these harmonies nonetheless become this album’s main standouts). lead single “Floridada” fea­tures call-and-response verses, layered choruses and additional wordless vocal melodies in one of the most annoyingly catchy songs you’ll hear this year. elsewhere the effects sound like quick experiments with tape phasing techniques popularized by steve reich, while “summing the wretch” best apes the loping harmony of panda bear’s excellent “boys latin” the group ob­sesses over mastering across the album. 
in these regards, “painting with” is animal collective’s clearest stab at their version of “pet sounds”; both vocalists panda bear and avey Tare have been pre­occupied with brian wilson’s style of west coast harmonies since the beginning of their music careers, and the group even recorded the new album in the same room where “pet sounds” was recorded 50 years ago. while the beach boy’s classic of three-minute bursts of pop harmonies remains a fixture to this date, “painting with” al­ready feels completely inconsequential, not only in comparison to “pet sounds” president, played by aaron eckart (“The dark knight”), falls under the custody of the criminals responsible for the attacks. butler’s mission to save the president is certainly more noble this time around: he’s no longer enslaving entire nations and attempting to destroy the world. morgan Freeman (every movie) is speaker Trumbull, who assumes the duties of the president in his absence. Fear not — his re­nowned voice is prevalent throughout the trailer, which creates high hopes for the film. if you can cope with seeing london ransacked in yet another action movie, this sequel to “olympus has Fallen” will get your patriotic blood boiling in march. 
“batman v superman: dawn of Justice” (March 25) 
Think mom and dad having an argu­ment about where to go for vacation, except mom and dad are superheroes 
but to contemporary music and animal collective’s entire discography. 
prior to the album’s release, panda bear explained the band was exploring “this idea of wanting to do something with short songs, with a homogenous energy to the re­cord,” comparing the idea to the ramones’ blistering debut record. unfortunately, the homogenous energy settled on is that of the quick and overstuffed leading third of their previous album “centipede hz,” perhaps the worst section of an animal collective album before the release of “painting with.” 
like the remixing on these two albums’ bridge ep, the songs on “painting with” are cluttered and poorly pieced together. busy, rushed harmonies compete with dense-yet-flat production to the detriment of both parts. The worst culprits of this come in the form of the mid-album, three-song stretch from “The burglar” to “bagels in kiev.” each song spends its entire 2:45 runtime building to some expected payoff that never comes. 
in contrast, follow-up “on delay” takes only a few additional moments to establish itself — using a killer delay effect on feed­back to grow a simple, effective backing for the rest of the song, much like the similarly structured “recycling” — and the result is so much more rewarding. even the harmo­nies ratchet down a step and take a chance to breathe rather than suffocate at the hands of the album’s dominant echoing vocals. 
on “painting with,” the band seems to have abandoned all of its most charismatic qualities. all of animal collective’s best songs develop over time, even their most popular tracks: “my girls” aimlessly circles around its two alternating verses for the majority of its length, and “summertime clothes” creates its ever-interpretable synth capable of leveling entire cities while causing maximum collateral damage. ben affleck dons the memorable cape as bruce wayne/batman to battle henry cavill, who returns in blue and red spandex. honestly, if you love superhero movies, the train stops at “dawn of Justice.” both heroes enter the trailer with arms swing­ing, guaranteeing maximum mindless action loud enough to temporarily disable your eardrums. our favorite gadgets such as the batmobile and the batplane return, ensuring even more explosions. 
These picks beg the question, are strik­ing good looks a prerequisite for being cast as a superhero? in any case, reward your­self after midterms by making the trip to a theater to indulge in handsome heroes and essentially the same explosion effects in these three highly-anticipated movies. 
Contact John Ahn at jahn5@nd.edu 
lines in an extended intro. by setting out to depart from the ambience and drawn-out drone of their best works, the band has given up too much of its personality. gone are the childlike sentimentality and charm­ing overindulgences that, nevertheless, end up playful rather than insufferable. here in­stead are 12 short, dub versions of the same irritatingly cramped song. 
maybe animal collective is adhering to a changing of the tide — which is something, up until this point, the band was never wont to do — in which audiences beg for music to reveal itself immediately or threaten to tune out. but on “painting with,” they fur­ther forget about the charming anachro­nism that propelled them in the first place and reestablished itself in the second half of “centipede hz,” carrying the album away from complete dismissal. what’s left in that wake are a stiff reliance on vocal effects, one-note percussion-heavy production and two-and-a-half-minute songs that wind up more overlong than the lengthiest live ren­ditions of their predecessors. 
Contact Matt McMahon at                            mmcmaho7@nd.edu 
“Painting With” 
Animal Collective 
Label: Domino Recording Company 
Tracks: “On Delay,” “Summing the Wretch,” “Recycling” 
If you like: Beach Boys, Yeasayer, Battles, Walk the Moon 



ERIC RICHELSEN | The Observer 

The observer | tuesday, February 23, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

InsIde COLuMn 

intellect with values 
Maureen Schweninger 
sports writer 

i learned a lot from my high school english teacher, but one of the most memorable pieces of advice he gave me was after graduation, when he spoke of the human intellect as a two-edged sword, often a temptress from a christ­centered core. in our pursuit of knowledge, we can easily lose a sense of what really matters, namely our relationships with god and oth­ers. i’ve found this temptation to be a relevant issue for me in my first year here and wonder if other college students realize how easy it is for us to take intellectualism down the wrong path. 
one of the defining qualities of notre dame is that the university’s pursuit of excellence is aimed toward something greater than the individual. it’s hard to keep sight of this mis­sion in practice. despite our best intentions, i think we all struggle with this issue and ought to give it more consideration as the most seri­ous challenge of our vocation as students. 
man’s intellect is an astonishing gift. Through it, he has the power to improve his own condition, to alleviate the suffering of those around him, to grow in understanding of both god and his own self. it’s a big world out there with an unfortunate amount of suffering, but equipped with our own intel­ligence, we can come to grips with that world and help ourselves and others work through it. as christ said in the gospel of luke, “to whom much has been given, much will be required.” many gifts, often extraordinarily intellectual ones, can be found in notre dame students, and so it becomes even more impor­tant to consider the purpose behind our own academic pursuits. 
we cannot approach our studies with an “anything goes” mentality, or we will abuse the great power that has been entrusted to us. There can be something dangerous about knowledge for the sake of knowledge. This kind of intellectualism is narcissistic in nature and takes us away from self-understanding or lives lived for others. This is where our societal individualism is taking us, toward a civiliza­tion based on one’s own accomplishments for personal glory and recognition. it’s time to get ourselves off that track. 
it is our utmost duty to work for good in our day-to-day life and most especially with our intellect. while we can’t spend every moment of our lives saving orphans or curing cancer, we’ve been entrusted with a great responsibil­ity to others, ourselves and god. in every aca­demic pursuit, we have to ask ourselves, what will make this pursuit valuable? 
in my eyes, a noble and valuable intellectual pursuit makes clearer our relationship with god or others; it sharpens our moral sensi­bilities; ideally, it helps us understand and improve the human condition. That’s an intel­lectualism with values, one that gives mean­ing to our time here on campus and inspires action as educated citizens many years after we leave. 
Contact Maureen Schweninger at  mschweni@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Katherine Smart 
real Talk 

during the summer of 2014, i had the incredible op­portunity to spend a week with each of the different branches of the navy. From driving a 16,000-ton war­ship to climbing around the engine room on a sub­marine, i had some awesome life experiences. during one such excursion, i was allowed to go on the shoot­ing range with the marines. as i was shooting grenade launchers, i could not help but think of the irony: The government trusts me with a pound of explosives, but not with an ounce of alcohol? 
i’m sure most college students have often felt this way. Therefore, i decided to explore the reasoning behind drinking age being 21 and if this is still an ap­plicable law in 2016. 
in 1984, president reagan signed the national minimum drinking age act, which increased the drinking age from 18 to 21. The momentum behind this decision came from the high percentage of teen­agers dying from alcohol-related driving accidents. To the law’s credit, since this policy was enacted the per­centage of deaths from teen drunk driving decreased from 61 percent to 31 percent in 1995. since 1984, other biological studies have emerged that support the higher drinking age. For example, the university of indiana was able to prove that drinking alcohol at an early age increases an individual’s chance of de­pendency later in life. according to the university of rochester, the brain does not even stop developing until the age of 25. Therefore, drinking at a young age can increase an individual’s chance of serious brain damage or stunted development. 
compared to 1984, our generation has received so much more alcohol education, especially with regards to drinking and driving. From mandatory health class to college orientation, everyone has some exposure to both the laws regarding alcohol abuse and the con­sequences that follow them. Just searching “drunk driving accidents” on the internet is enough to dis­suade me from even considering drinking and driv­ing. when looking at a decrease in alcohol accidents among teenagers, people have to consider the effect the availability of information plays into the narra­tive. also, with innovations in the medical field, such as stem cell growth and safer transplant procedures, the amount of people dying from car accidents across the entire population has significantly decreased regardless of age group or circumstance. Therefore, the decrease in fatal teen alcohol accidents seems to reflect this pattern. clearly, using the 61 percent to 31 percent decrease is not the best argument to keep the drinking age at 21 because there are too many other factors that can justifiably be used to explain the statistic. 
drinking large amounts of alcohol at a young age can cause problems. however, it is the manner and frequency of alcohol consumption that causes most of these problems. For example, europeans drink more alcohol than americans but have significantly less deaths due to it. This is because the culture surround­ing underage drinking in the united states creates an atmosphere of exclusion that many young people fear. Therefore, alcohol abuse has become a major issue on college campuses. by lowering the drinking age, the lure of the “forbidden fruit” will be taken away and with it the social stigmas that surround alcohol. 
while many people agree that 21 is too high of a benchmark, making the drinking age 18 also creates the concern that underage drinking, and the social pressures that come with it, will start happening at an even earlier age. having seniors in high school buy alcohol for 15-year olds does create a whole new set of problems. however, a simple solution to this con­cern is to make the drinking age 19. That way, alcohol can stay out of the high school arena but still allow legal adults the choice of whether or not to consume alcohol. 
honestly, lowering the drinking age isn’t the most important issue our nation is faced with today. considering congress cannot agree on anything, add­ing this legislation to the agenda just seems like add­ing extra weight to a sinking ship. however, assessing the sensibility of old laws with today’s knowledge is something we need to constantly be doing. For ex­ample, if we were not constantly updating our health standards, we would still be declaring ice cream a “nutritious and wholesome food,” just like reagan did in 1984. similarly, with today’s access to information in combination with the social stigma that surrounds drinking, the drinking age should be changed from 21 to 19. at the end of the day, if you are considered old enough to be making the adult choices to drive safely, join the military, smoke a cigarette and even vote for president, you should be considered old enough to choose to drink and accept responsibly for the conse­quences that follow your decision. 
Katherine Smart is a junior in the Naval ROTC program and a current resident of Badin Hall. She is a political science and pre-health major. She can be reached at ksmart@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | tuesday, February 23, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
The place of the poor 
Scott Boyle 
The sincere seeker 

when i was growing up in cincinnati, i loved to attend baseball and football games. while i’ll admit both the reds and the bengals weren’t exactly rel­evant to the playoff scene, it was exciting to be able to watch games in person. 
attending games taught me a lot about sports in the purest sense, something that i could never quite ap­preciate from television or the comfort of the living room. although i couldn’t quite describe it then, i got the sense i was a part of something much bigger than myself. 
For a couple hours, these stadiums were places of gathering and community. people came together for a common purpose, uniting themselves and their energies toward a celebration and remembrance of realities that were much bigger than solely what was happening on the field. 
at a very basic level — yes — we wanted the bengals and reds to win. (This was a lofty hope in most cas­es.) but there were other clear truths within our field of vision. 
a well-turned double play that allowed a pitcher to escape a tight jam or a critical block that allowed a running back to get extra yardage could certainly be celebrated as good plays. yet at the same time, these small moments were reminders of much greater truths. life, in its purest sense, can be lived most ful­ly when we realize true success is not an individual affair. sport played well is a reminder that each part played well contributes to the success of the whole. 
For all that there was to celebrate about these sporting events, however, there was always another reality that would give me pause outside of the stadiums. 
in short, i really struggled with my encounters with the poor and homeless who, knowing where the crowds would be, lined themselves along our walks to the games. 
i struggled with how many times i, like so many others, passed by them. each time i would pass someone without acting (which was often), my heart would ache terribly. 
yet so frequently, i still passed by without doing anything. i would always try to rationalize the deep ache by thinking, “i don’t want to get separated from my family,” or “well, maybe they don’t really need my help.” 
i have tried to discuss this ache with others at dif­ferent points in my life. yet most of the conversations that follow are disappointingly dismissive. “They should just go find work.” “They’re probably on drugs or just want the money to buy alcohol.” “we can’t help everyone.” 
For the longest time, i have been deeply dissatisfied by these answers. no matter what others said, i felt and still feel convicted. but, thanks to the example of sports, i was able to see, yet again, more truths within my field of vision. 
even among the greatest teams, there are players who are stronger in some areas and weaker in others. and some of these players, to put it bluntly, hold big­ger roles than others. yet, games (at least in baseball or football) are won and lost by teams whose players contribute in different ways. because individual play­ers are not at their best at all times, others step in to pick up slack. 
in this way, the field of sport presents a pretty obvi­ous analogy to the game of life. we make errors and have to deal with penalties for our actions. we get knocked down and injured, sometimes senselessly. yet, our “teammates and support staff” give us the hope that the future can be different by helping us pick up the pieces. here again, we are reminded that life can never be an individual affair. 
yet as members of the body of christ, there are deeper implications for this truth. in christ, there’s a pretty clear call for our own playbooks: “whatever you do for the least of these, you do for me” (mt 25:40). 
in god’s light, we are invited to consider a differ­ent standard by which to judge our individual affairs and how far we are called to go to help others pick up the pieces. we are invited outside of our own judg­ments to ponder the depths of the question the expert of the law posed to Jesus in the parable of the good samaritan: “who is my neighbor?” 
in these two sections of the bible, Jesus gives us a pretty clear answer: our neighbors are the hun­gry, thirsty, imprisoned or sick. it is those who are battered like the man in the parable. it is, by exten­sion, especially those we often meet on the way to stadiums. 
living into the truth of the world god has made is not about whether or not these people deserve our help, but how we can help. The truth of that fact has already been decided in christ. now it’s up to us to most fully live it. 
A 2012 and 2015 graduate of Notre Dame, Scott Boyle currently serves as the assistant director for Notre Dame Vision in the Institute for Church Life. He can be reached at sboyle2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Letter tO tHe edItOr 

a threat to our pluralist roots 
This article is a response to eddie damstra’s viewpoint, “Threat to our religious roots.” in his piece, mr. damstra claims electing a “culturally Jewish” 74-year old who “isn’t actively involved with organized religion” would “deliver a blow to the true greatness of america.” 
we argue mr. damstra’s article is not only historically inaccurate but also reaches the dangerous conclusion that electing a non-christian president would inherently violate our “fundamental value system.” rather, we claim presenting american values as synonymous with those of an organized religion would undermine “the very under­pinnings of our nation.” 
mr. damstra claims “america was built on Judeo­christian values and the people have consequently continued to elect christian leaders to maintain such a principled foundation.” This is a distortion of the facts. consider the 1797 Treaty of Tripoli signed by John adams and approved by congress affirming that “The govern­ment of the united states is not, in any sense, founded on the christian religion.” or consider James madison, who in a 1785 pamphlet, wrote that “[to] employ religion as an engine of civil policy … [is] an unhallowed perver­sion of the means of salvation” and that “legal establish­ment” of christianity leads to “superstition, bigotry and persecution.” 
do these sound like the words of men who intended america to be founded upon christian values? or do they sound like the words of men who built a country on secu­lar values of equality, liberty and the pursuit of happiness? 
if we are electing our leaders based solely on their christian religiosity, it seems we are doing a great disser­vice to our founding fathers. John F. kennedy, a president elected in a time of pervasive discrimination against catholics, argued “america … must neither be humbled by making it the instrument of any one religious group, nor tarnished by arbitrarily withholding its occupancy from the members of any one religious group.” does this sound like a president determined to lead based on christian values or one based on secular, american values? 
mr. damastra argues the american motto “one nation under god” and the phrase “one nation under god” in our pledge of allegiance demonstrate the united states’ em­phasis on christianity. however, the motto only appeared in paper currency in 1957, and the phrase was added to the pledge in 1954. neither addition demonstrates the foundation of the u.s. upon christian values; rather, they are simply religious phrases added during the cold war due to combat communism and in no way demonstrate a founding of the country on christian-Judeo principles. 
Further, the notion of “Judeo-christian values” ex­pressed by mr. damstra is ill-defined. was andrew Jackson expressing christian values when he pushed through his policies of indian removal? consider also the slavery debate, in which both slave owners and abolition­ists cited holy gospel to justify their actions. To claim there is a single ethic system common to christianity and Judaism — and not, apparently, to islam, despite its prominence as an abrahamic religion — is reductionist. consider the problem of war, where the same christian values that justified the crusades also led to the theory of just war and caused John paul ii to exclaim, “never again war!” christian values, and so by extension Judeo­christian and abrahamic values, can be used to justify almost anything. undoubtedly, mr. damstra had a spe­cific instance of “Judeo-christian values” in mind when he wrote his article. however, he neglects to put forward his view and instead claims he holds the same set of christian values as andrew Jackson, abraham lincoln and John F. kennedy. 
mr. damstra also states, “while the government can­not support the establishment of a religion or prohibit one from exercising their respective religion freely, the First amendment does not declare the united states a godless nation.” To suggest that electing a candidate who describes himself as “culturally Jewish” would throw our nation into “godlessness” is inflammatory and hyperbol­
ic. regardless of its leader’s personal religious beliefs, the united states is not a godless nation, for the constitution guarantees the right to freedom of religion. 
despite this, we could never deny the united states has been heavily influenced by christians and their values. likewise, we could never deny the influence of many other religious groups whose values have been woven into the fabric of our nation. but there is a reason no religious test is required for public office: our nation was built to champion pluralism so we could nurture freedom. as ronald reagan said, “our very unity has been strength­ened by our pluralism.” To declare the u.s. a christian na­tion would be antithetical to this pluralism; it would send a pernicious message to non-christian americans. as non-christians in a christian nation, they would be un­able to share in the american tradition without changing their faith; they would not be welcome, merely tolerated. 
mr. damstra claims electing a non-religious president “would fundamentally change the essence of america.” he states the election of a non-religious candidate “is a rather frightening thought.” we should hold the merit of a potential leader’s platform, the content of his character, his capacity to lead and his accomplishments higher than what religious ceremonies he observes. 
christian religiosity is not what makes america excep­tional. what makes america exceptional is that we would never disqualify a candidate because of his or her reli­gious affiliations. what makes america exceptional is that we have been a safe haven for countless different religious and ethnic groups throughout our history. what makes america exceptional is that we are a bastion of opportuni­ty and freedom for millions of hopeful immigrants. what makes america exceptional is that we promise the values of equality, opportunity and liberty for all. 
Natasha Reifenberg 
sophomore 
Patrick LeBlanc 
sophomore 



CrOsswOrd | will shorTZ 

Just add water | John roddy & eric carlson sudOku | The mepham group 


FLInG by sPrInG | riley mccurrie 


WANTED 

Need Tutor(s): high school biology & Algebra 
2. Tutoring may continue summer & beyond. Prefer our house, 10-15 minutes from ND, but open to other locations. Contact Linda at lwaelchli@datacruz.com 
HOrOsCOPe | eugenia lasT 
Happy Birthday: Take responsibility of matters and turn this year into your best ever. look for any opportunity that will help you improve your world. This is not the time to be wasteful or frivolous, and certainly shouldn’t be spent arguing with people who are not going to budge. Focus on the positives instead of the impossible. your numbers are 6, 11, 21, 28, 33, 35, 43. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take care of pressing matters. strive to improve your health and mental awareness. avoid arguments that have the potential to upset your plans or cause setbacks. share your concerns and push for change. a romantic encounter will surprise you. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): stick to the facts, speak from the heart and avoid getting involved in a no-win discussion with someone who is insensitive to the causes you believe in. put more time into improving yourself instead of trying to change others. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): don’t make changes under pressure. if someone wants something from you, let him or her get it without your help. Focus on getting the highest returns. offer everything you can to what you believe is right. love is on the rise. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): you have more going for you than you realize. look around you and don’t be afraid to shoot for the stars. settle for nothing less than what you want. delve into your personal beliefs and tweak your lifestyle accordingly. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): be honest about what you want to share. set boundaries that allow everyone the freedom to be creative and live life under their own terms, and you will find peace and satisfaction. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): look at the less-obvious factors and you will understand what’s unfolding around you. add as much detail as possible to everything you do, and you will avoid interference from others. strive to have more confidence in yourself and what you have to offer. 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): put your plans into motion and assist those who need your help, and you will be praised for your kindness and consideration. love is in the stars, so plan a romantic evening that will improve your personal life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): explore heartfelt concerns and you will find a way to make a difference. a situation that is not going well between you and a friend is best left alone. positive personal changes will result in greater creative freedom. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Tie up loose ends so that you are free to come and go as you please. legal issues will develop if you neglect your responsibilities. don’t let what other people do cause anxiety or lead to a dispute. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): draw up and sign contracts. move money around or invest in something unique. an opportunity to grow personally will help you find new ways to exploit your talents and skills. be open to change and you will develop new friendships. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): keep a close watch on the people you care about. protecting your relationships and nurturing what’s important to you will help you avoid unsavory situations. stick close to home and strive to keep the peace. Focus on love and romance. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): secrets will be revealed. do your best to avoid situations that put you in a vulnerable position at work or when dealing with institutions. look for alternatives if you don’t like what’s being offered. do your research. 

Birthday Baby: you are a dreamer and a doer. you are a crusader and a humanitarian. 
JuMbLe | david hoyT and JeFF knurek 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
PERSONAL 

LOURDES YOUTH PILGRIMAGE. June 4-12, 2016. For more info visit 4Mary.org. 
“Always borrow money from a pessimist. He won’t expect it back.” -Oscar Wilde 
To receive The observer in your home, complete the form below. make checks payable and mail to: 
The observer p.o. box 779 notre dame, in 46556 

enclosed is $130 for one academic year enclosed is $75 for one semester 
name 
address 
city     state Zip 


ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, Feburary 23, 2016 | The observer 


sPOrts autHOrIty 

stage is set for big papi’s finale 

Ben Padanilam 
sports writer 
Just last week, pitchers and catchers reported to spring training. That can only mean one thing: baseball season is underway. 
after a relatively busy off­season, mlb has plenty of headlines that offer prom­ise for an exciting year in the game. The cubs look poised to improve upon last year’s revelation of a season and potentially break their well documented, 107-sea­son world series drought. meanwhile, the reigning champions, the royals, and the only team that won 100 games in the regular season last year, the cardinals, are projected to win only 76 and 82 games, respectively, by the baseball prospectus pecoTa ratings system. 
however, perhaps the big­gest headline is the one that carries a more melancholic tone: The 2016 season will be david ortiz’s last. The slugger has been the heart and soul of the red sox ever since he joined the orga­nization in 2003. his nick­name, “big papi,” doesn’t just represent his larger-than-life status in boston, but it captures the senti­ment of endearment with which he has won over fans throughout all of baseball. 
This season will be a fare­well tour for david ortiz, much in the fashion of 2014 for derek Jeter and 2013 for mariano rivera. well, maybe it won’t be as big as it was for those yankee legends and guaranteed hall of Famers. 
but it should be. 
with 503 home runs in his career and counting, there is no doubt ortiz is one of the premier power hitters to ever play in the game. over his 13 years in boston, ortiz has averaged a .288 batting average, 34 home runs and 108 rbis per sea­son. he’s also finished in the top five in mvp voting five times, won six silver slugger awards and been named an all-star nine times while manning the designated hitter spot in the red sox lineup. There’s no question his impact on the field has been felt. 
yet big papi’s mark on the game is so much more than just a bunch of numbers. 
ortiz has been the leader of three world series-winning rosters in boston. in 2004, he led arguably the most memorable comeback in playoff history by hitting walk-offs in games 4 and 5 of the alcs to lead the red sox to a comeback from 3-0 series deficit against the ri­val yankees. Then he helped lead the team to 4-0 sweep over the cardinals to break boston’s 86-year “curse of the bambino.” 
but perhaps his greatest contribution to the orga­nization and the city was that third world series win in 2013. in april that year, boston experienced the tragedy that was the boston marathon bombings. before the team’s first home game after the event, ortiz ral­lied the fans. he went on to lead the team to another crown, earning the world series mvp award. his lead­ership for that team and its city personified the mantra that echoed throughout that year: boston strong. 
Fortunately for ortiz, this year should be a good one for the red sox on paper. The acquisitions of david price and craig kimbrel bolster a pitching staff and bullpen that were in dire need of some help. i might not be a red sox fan, but i hope ortiz’s farewell tour ends in a way that Jeter’s and rivera’s didn’t: with the chance to play in october. 
Contact Ben Padanilam at  bpadanil@nd.edu
    The views expressed in this Sports Authority are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


nd wOMen’s GOLF | wesTbrook spring inviTaTional 
Irish place sixth at Arizona invitational 
Observer Staff Report 
no. 23 notre dame com­peted in the westbrook spring invitational in peoria, arizona, this weekend, where it finished sixth in a strong field that in­cluded no. 16 san diego state, unlv, kansas state, ohio state and oregon. 
The first two rounds were played sunday, and as the day drew to a close, the irish found themselves in fifth place after posting an even-par score of 576 over the 36 holes. Four of the five teams in the top five were only separated by three strokes, and several irish golf­ers were in the front of the pack. leading the way was se­nior captain Talia campbell, who was tied for fifth individu­ally after a score of 3 under par, notching two of the nine eagles in the first day of the competi­tion. Following her were two irish freshmen, isabella dilisio and emma albrecht, who were in 11th and 30th place, respec­tively. both golfers had solid opening rounds but stumbled in the afternoon session with several bogies. Finally, the irish closed out with sophomore kari bellville in 43rd, freshman maddie rose hamilton in 54th and junior Jordan Ferreira in 66th. 
notre dame began the final round monday morning within reach of teams above it, but the irish slid to sixth place with a 1-over-par 289, posting the fifth-lowest 54-hole score in school history at 865. The irish were poised to garner a third-place finish but gave back four strokes on the final three holes to place sixth. campbell and dilisio built on their success in the first two rounds, finishing tied for ninth with a tournament score of 2 under par. dilisio tied her career low from this past fall with a three-round 214, while notre dame also got solid fin­ishes from its other golfers, with albrecht finishing up 33rd at 3 over par, hamilton placing 48th at 6 over and bellville, who rounded out the lineup, in 79th. 
The irish finished six strokes ahead of the only other top­25 team at the tournament, san diego state, but fell to five teams below it in the rankings, including oregon who won the tournament at 10-under. notre dame returns to play march 11 when it hosts the fifth annual clover cup in mesa, arizona. 
sMC basketbaLL | albion 75, smc 51 
belles close out season with second loss to albion 

Observer Staff Report 
despite being led by a quar­tet of seniors on the score­board saturday, saint mary’s ended its season at albion this weekend with a 75-51 loss. 
in her final game, senior captain krista knapke led the charge for the belles (1-24, 1-15 miaa) with her eighth double-double of the season, scoring 12 points and grab­bing 12 rebounds. 
saint mary’s got off to a slow start, as the britons (10­15, 6-10) held an early 14-0 advantage before knapke scored to get the belles on the board. knapke lead the charge for the belles into the second quarter with the first two buckets of the period, cutting the lead to just 10 points. however, that was the closest the game got, as saint mary’s was unable to cut the lead to single digits and trailed by 18 at halftime. 
The britons opened the second half with a 10-2 run, but after this initial set­back, saint mary’s outscored albion 9-4 in the remainder of the third. in the final quar­ter, both teams turned on their offenses, as the belles and britons combined for 51 points in the game’s final 10 minutes; the belles scored 12 points in the final three min­utes on 5-for-7 shooting. 
albion shot well through­out the game, shooting 40 percent in the first half and 47.2 percent in the second half, and had four players in double figures, led by senior center darian payne and freshman guard Jay bard, who each had 14 points. 
knapke was not the only belles player to hit double digits saturday, as senior for­ward eleni shea had 12 and senior guard sarah macius contributed 10 to the belles’ effort. senior guard maddie kohler poured in eight as saint mary’s seniors scored 42 of the team’s 51 points. 
The belles were on the wrong side of the turnover battle saturday: saint mary’s scored just nine points off 16 albion turnovers while the britons scored 22 off 25 belles turnovers. 


nd sOFtbaLL | mary nuTTer classic 
Irish take four of five at Mary Nutter Classic 
Observer Staff Report 
momentum is in notre dame’s corner after a turbulent weekend at the mary nutter collegiate classic, where the irish went 4-1 over the course of the weekend, including an upset victory over no. 8 ucla on saturday. 
notre dame (7-3) began play in cathedral city, california, on Friday against utah valley, downing the wolverines, 11-4. 
utah valley (4-6) got off to a two-run lead in the first in­ning, but the irish answered back and took a 3-2 lead off sophomore shortstop morgan reed’s two-run double. 
notre dame took a com­manding 10-4 lead after a four-run third inning in which two irish runs scored off utah valley throwing errors. 
irish sophomore pitcher sara white allowed the wolverines to load the bases in two con­secutive innings, but she worked her way out of the jams as the irish went on to finish a sizable win. 
later that evening, notre dame took on its first ranked opponent of the classic, no. 11 washington. The huskies (9-1) attacked the irish early and held a 5-1 lead after two innings. 
however, senior pitcher allie rhodes and junior pitch­er rachel nasland held the huskies scoreless for the re­mainder of the game. a two-run home run from senior first baseman micaela arizmendi in the bottom of the sixth inning gave the irish hope, but notre dame could not complete the comeback and fell 5-4 to end the first day of play. 
The irish got off to another slow start the next day against cal poly as the mustangs (6-4) scored two runs with two outs in the bottom of the first. 
sophomore left fielder bailey bigler tied the game with a two-run double in the top of the second inning and with two outs, freshman second baseman ali wester added two more runs to put notre dame up 4-2. 
a strong defensive effort helped the irish hang on to their lead: arizmendi turned a double-play off of a sacrifice-bunt attempt, and ali wester threw out a mustang runner at the plate as the irish won 6-3. 
The big moment of the week for notre dame came saturday evening as the irish bested no. 8-ranked ucla, 8-6. 
The bruins (7-3) look poised for a big first inning after a bas­es-loaded walk, but nasland struck out two bruin batters to leave the inning only down 1-0. The irish threatened to score in the second but left arizmendi stranded on third base. ucla junior shortstop delaney spaulding extended the bruins’ lead with an rbi single in the bottom of the second. 
ali wester came through again for the irish in the top of the third inning with a two-run single to score her sister, junior center fielder karley wester, and bigler. 
The bruins, however, re­gained the lead in the bottom of the third inning on an rbi double with two outs from freshman first baseman Taylor pack. an rbi groundout in the bottom of the fourth inning extended the lead to 4-2 for ucla. 
notre dame broke the game open in the fifth inning and took 7-4 lead off of rbis from ali wester, arizmendi, senior catcher casey africano and two from freshman third base­man melissa rochford. 
rhodes entered the game for the irish and gave up two runs in the bottom of the fifth inning, but another run from ali wester in the sixth inning sealed the 8-6 victory for the irish. 
building on their momen­tum, the irish shut out george washington on the final day of competition, 12-0. rochford hit her second home run of the year, and rhodes got the win on the mound for the irish and improved her record as a start­er to 3-2. 
looking ahead, the irish head to kissimmee, Florida, this weekend for the diamond 9 classic, which will start Friday at 1:15 p.m. against east carolina. 


M tennis 
conTinued From page 12 
kentucky was a disappoint­ment, but we will learn from it and be better moving for­ward against the top teams that we will play.” 
a few weeks after mixing up the doubles pairings, sachire said the lineup change has been beneficial to the whole team’s performance as the duos have gotten more and more playing time together. 
“our doubles lineup change has been a huge positive, and we feel good about the three teams that we have playing together,” sachire said. “chemistry in doubles between partners is something that is extremely important and something that we are always working on. however, we do feel good about where things stand right now.” 
This sunday, the irish will play no. 6 ohio state at eck Tennis pavilion at noon. This is their highest-ranked op­ponent so far this season, but sachire said his squad is looking forward to the challenge. 
“we are really excited about our upcoming match with ohio state,” sachire said. “like always, they have a great team and will be a national championship con­tender. we are excited about the opportunity on sunday.” 
Contact Jackie Brebeck at  jbrebeck@nd.edu 






ndsmcobserver.com | tuesday, Feburary 23, 2016 | The observer 


baseball 
conTinued From page 12 
a program. The preparation, the team-first attitude and all of those things. i’m incredibly happy for him that he got off to a good start. certainly really, really well-deserved. he’s a great kid, and we’re very fortu­nate to have him. we won’t ever take him for granted, that’s for sure.” 
on the offensive side of the ball, a fifth-inning, inside-the­park home run from junior second baseman cavan biggio was the highlight of a night in which the irish scored a run in each of the third, fourth, fifth, seventh and eighth innings to complement smoyer’s gem on the mound. 
while the irish put up five runs Friday night, they were unable to cross the plate once saturday as they were shut out, 2-0, by the broncos (2-1). 
The team finished with seven runners left on base while ac­cumulating seven hits, but it was unable to break through against broncos junior starter steven wilson. 
For notre dame, sophomore right-hander peter solomon (0-1) went three innings, sur­rendering two runs on four hits and two walks. senior reliever michael hearne kept the irish in the game with five innings of three-hit ball. 
in the rubber match sunday afternoon, notre dame’s comeback attempt fell short as the irish dropped the rubber game, 4-2, as early mistakes on the defensive side of the ball put the team in a hole that they were unable to work out of. 
sophomore starter sean guenther (0-1) gave up four runs, two earned, on four hits and a walk in his four innings of work. santa clara scored a pair of unearned runs in the opening frame thanks to a pair of irish errors, one by guenther and one by biggio. 
“i think unfortunately we’re all mistake-prone as human beings,” aoki said. “baseball players are no different. Those things, i don’t think they nec­essarily only happen early in the year; they’re just things that will happen throughout the course of the year. we cer­tainly have more than enough time to recover from the mis­takes that we made.” 
Junior designated hitter Torii hunter Jr. and freshman right fielder matt vierling each re­corded their first career hits for notre dame, both singles in the sixth inning. sophomore left fielder Jake Johnson drove in hunter Jr. in the same frame to get the irish on the board, and vierling added a solo home run in the eighth inning to cut santa clara’s lead to two runs. The comeback ended there, however, as the irish dropped their second consecutive game and the series to the broncos. 
“we didn’t have the quality at-bats we’re looking for with runners in scoring position,” aoki said. “unfortunately that was a little missing, but i thought there were a lot of next weekend at the alamo irish classic with games against incarnate word, bradley, Texas southern and gonzaga. all games will be played at nelson wolff stadium in san antonio, Texas. 

Contact Hunter McDaniel at hmcdani1@nd.edu 
w bball 
conTinued From page 12 
and we took advantage of it.” 
allen posted five of her assists in the first half, four of which led to 3-pointers, and the irish went into the half with a 43-28 bright spots. i thought ryan smoyer threw the ball really well. i think our pitching staff, all of the guys who threw this weekend, threw really well. solomon struggled a little bit, but he’s certainly capable of be­ing a heck of a lot better than he was this weekend, and i think that he will be moving forward. 
matt vierling, i thought, played really well. There were times at which i thought we played re­ally well, but obviously we’re a little disappointed with the outcomes. but we’re still only three games in. There’s a lot of baseball left to be played, so we’ll be fine.” 
notre dame returns to action 
poison. we thought they really weren’t shooting well from 3 [in the first half].” 
overall, notre dame outshot Florida state from the field, 46 to 38 percent, and from the 3-point line, 50 to 31 percent. however, the seminoles shot 50 percent from 3 in the second half, compared to 25 percent for the irish. 
To make matters worse for mcgraw’s squad, Turner fouled out with 2:54 remaining. she left the game with a team-high 15 points. 
but just as she had in the first quarter, allen kept the irish competitive, sinking two key free throws 30 seconds later to go along with two assists in the quarter. 
Turner, ogunbowale, mabrey and graduate student guard madison cable all ended the game with more than 10 points, while allen had just six. That low scoring output is part of the reason few on the national stage consider allen the na­tion’s top point guard, mcgraw said. 
“she’s a pass-first point guard. she gives the ball up,” mcgraw said. “it’s a shame peo­ple only look at scoring.” 
with the victory, notre dame has a chance to clinch a share of the acc regular season title this Thursday at home, when the irish host clemson at purcell pavilion. That opportu­nity, however, is not motivating notre dame too much, mcgraw said. 
“That’s not our goal. we are not good at sharing,” mcgraw said. “we don’t want to think that way.” 
notre dame and clemson will face off Thursday at purcell pavilion. Tipoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. 
Contact Greg Hadley at  ghadley@nd.edu 
lead. 
but after the break, Florida state clawed its way back into the game, outscoring the irish 22-19 in the third quarter and eventually closing to within five points in the final seconds of the game. 
“They had some transition baskets, and they beat us to a couple rebounds,” mcgraw said of how the seminoles rallied. “we took some questionable shots that led to breakaways for them. The transition defense was poor. That was a big prob­lem. defensively … they made a couple 3s. you have to pick your 





The observer | tuesday, February 23, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
nd wOMen’s basketbaLL | nd 73, Florida sTaTe 66 
Irish hold off Seminoles for ACC road win 
By GREG HADLEY 
editor-in-chief 
muffet mcgraw has never shied away from speaking her mind. 
so following no. 2 notre dame’s 73-66 win over no. 12 Florida state on monday night, in which junior guard lindsay allen set a career high with 11 assists, mcgraw made a simple statement. 
“she’s the best point guard in the country,” mcgraw said. 
statistics alone wouldn’t sug­gest that: allen averages just 9 points, 5.6 assists and 3.9 re­bounds per game. but allen’s influence extends beyond the stat sheet, mcgraw said. 
“she’s the reason we are where we are right now,” mcgraw said. “she’s unflappa­ble: whenever the other team makes a run, she never loses her poise. she’s a great defend­er, got a great handle, can score, and she’s really smart. 
That composure under pres­sure was necessary monday, as the irish (26-1, 14-0 acc) fell behind early against the seminoles (21-6, 11-3), trailing by five points with fewer than two minutes left in the first quarter. 
but before the first period had elapsed, notre dame had already rallied to take the lead with a combination of 3-point­ers and post play from sopho­more forward brianna Turner. 
“[Turner] is so hard to de­fend inside and off the pick­and-roll,” mcgraw said. “and she draws so much attention, it opens things up for the 3-point shooters. we’d like to go to her more, but if she’s jammed up on the inside, we can go to some­one on the perimeter.” 
The irish broke away in the second quarter, as senior guard michaela mabrey and freshmen guards marina mabrey and arike ogunbowale combined to shoot 5 for 6 from beyond the arc. meanwhile, the seminole offense went stagnant, produc­ing only 13 points and failing to score at all for a six-and-a-half­minute-long stretch. 
“in the first half, they re­ally were phenomenal [and] got some good looks,” mcgraw said. “we needed that because we haven’t been shooting as well from the 3-point line lately. They gave us some open looks, 
see w bball PaGe 11 


basebaLL | nd 5, sanTa clara 0; sanTa clara 2, nd 0; sanTa clara 4, nd 2 
irish drop two of three in opening series of season 
BY HUNTER McDANIEL 
sports writer 
notre dame returned to the diamond for the start of the new season over the weekend, drop­ping two out of three at santa clara. 
The no. 24 irish (1-2) opened the 2016 campaign Friday night at stephen schott stadium with a 5-0 win behind a dominat­ing performance from junior right-hander ryan smoyer and contributions up and down the lineup. 
smoyer (1-0) was perfect through his first 15 batters and only allowed two hits and three base runners in his seven in­nings. Junior scott Tully and se­nior david hearne each added an inning of scoreless ball in re­lief to finish the shutout for the irish. 
“i’m really happy for [smoyer],” irish head coach mik aoki said. “he’s an incred­ibly hard-working kid. he em­bodies at a really high level all of the things that we value as 
see baseball PaGe 11 


Men’s tennIs | kenTucky 4, nd 0; nd 4, wesTern mich. 0 
ND salvages weekend split 
BY JACKIE BREBECK 
sports writer 
notre dame split its dou­bleheader sunday, falling to kentucky 4-0 in the first game before ending on a high note with a quick, 4-0 win against western michigan. 
against kentucky (6-3), notre dame (6-5) fell behind when it lost the doubles point in a tightly contested match. senior Quentin monaghan and fresh­man grayson broadus lost 6-4 at the no. 2 court, but senior alex lawson and junior eddy covalschi defeated their oppo­nents 6-4 on no.1 . down 5-2, senior eric schnurrenberger and junior Josh hagar fought back to 5-4 but eventually lost 6-4 to give the wildcats the doubles point. kentucky picked up three more points in sin­gles play by quickly defeating schnurrenberger, lawson and covalschi to secure the win. on the other courts, monaghan, hagar and broadus were all ei­ther tied or leading their games, but play was halted after the re­sult was confirmed. 
however, in the second game of their doubleheader sunday, the irish turned the tide and won a 4-0 victory over western michigan (8-4). notre dame secured the doubles point with broadus and senior nicolas montoya winning 6-2 and hagar and schnurrenberger winning their matches 6-2 and 6-4, respectively. in the singles games, the broncos had ear­ly leads, but monaghan and covalschi claimed quick wins. on all the remaining courts, the irish forced third sets, with broadus securing the win for the irish, making a comeback to win 1-6, 6-1, 6-4. overall, irish head coach ryan sachire said he was pleased with his team’s recent performances. 
“when you take the last three weeks, our team has definitely been trending in the right di­rection,” sachire said. “our lineup has gotten some conti­nuity, and we believe that we have guys in every spot in the lineup that can be success­ful. [sunday’s] match against 
see m Tennis PaGe 10 




