The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 133 | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Administration plans ceremony 
ndsmcobserver.com p.o. box 779, notre dame, in 46556 024 south dining hall, notre dame, in 46556  By RACHEL O’GRADY associate news editor  liquids will be prohibited, amongst other items. in the past, the secret service has been helpful in ensuring  they have alternative measures in place, hurley said. “we’ve got the university weather  
Editor-in-Chief margaret hynds Managing Editor  Business Manager now in its seventh consecutive year in notre dame stadium, the  the safety of everyone at graduation, hurley said.  person, and we pay close attention to what he says, but we stick to the stadi­ 
                  Kayla mullen                       emily reckmeyer  171st commencement ceremony will  “we’re  spending  quite  a  lot  of  um the best we can,” he said. “There’s  
Asst. Managing Editor: Asst. Managing Editor: Asst. Managing Editor:  alex carson Zach Klonsinski clare Kossler  be celebrated sunday, followed by 19 separate graduation ceremonies  time collaborating with the secret service,” he said. “They’ve been great  always the possibility, however, that we could move into purcell pavilion.”  
News Editor:  Katie galioto  throughout the day.  to work with — they’re extremely  a  move indoors would affect the  
Viewpoint Editor: Sports Editor: Scene Editor:  claire radler marek mazurek erin mcauliffe  university registrar chuck hurley said he encourages graduates and  professional.” despite some  initial  controver­ number of guests a graduate could bring to the ceremony, according to  
Saint Mary’s Editor: Photo Editor:  nicole caratas caitlyn Jordan  their guests to show up early to this  sy over the location of last year’s  hurley.  
Graphics Editor: Multimedia Editor: Online Editor:  susan Zhu wei cao Jimmy Kemper  year’s event, due to the attendance of vice president Joe biden and former  commencement ceremony, hurley said the university plans to continue  “we have unlimited tickets for the stadium,” he said. “students can re- 
Advertising Manager: Ad Design Manager:  olivia Treister carlos celis  speaker of the house John boehner.  to use notre dame stadium for grad- quest as many as they wish. about  
Office Manager & General Info  “with the vice president coming,  uation in years to come.  two years ago, we had a young lady  
ph: (574) 631-7471 Fax: (574) 631-6927 Advertising (574) 631-6900 ads@ndsmcobserver.com  that’s a different challenge for us than in a normal year — but on the other hand, we’ve had this happen a num­ “in the 1950s and 1960s, they had graduation in the stadium as well, for a few years, until they built the  who was the first person in her family to graduate college and she brought 90 guests, and that was great.  
Editor-in-Chief  ber of times in notre dame’s history,”  Joyce center,” he said. “we went back  “but when we give students their  
(574) 631-4542 mhynds@nd.edu  hurley said. “during my tenure, this  in 2010 to the stadium, and that’s  tickets, we give them a stadium ticket,  
Managing Editor (574) 631-4542 kmullen2@nd.edu Assistant Managing Editors (574) 631-4541 acarson1@nd.edu,   has been the third time we’ve had a president or vice president come. we have some people on our staff that  worked out well.” however, hurley said the use of the stadium is heavily reliant on the  and then students also receive three severe weather tickets.” however, hurley said in case of  
zklonsin@nd.edu, ckossler@nd.edu  have done it five times.”  weather.  severe  weather,  alternative  view- 
Business Office (574) 631-5313 News Desk  however, while the security mea­sures complicate the planning, hurley  “when you hold an outdoor event of any kind, you’re subject to mother  ing locations will be opened around campus.  
(574) 631-5323 news@ndsmcobserver.com  said it is an enjoyable challenge.  nature,” he said. “indiana has quite  “Folks will be able to go to debartolo  
Viewpoint Desk (574) 631-5303 viewpoint@ndsmcobserver.com Sports Desk (574) 631-4543 sports@ndsmcobserver.com  “it’s very neat. The secret service protection adds a layer there that’s different than a normal year, so to  an unusual weather pattern — this time of year, we’ve seen 80 degree, humid, hot days, but we’ve also seen  hall or Jordan hall or compton, or the north part of the Joyce center, so they can watch it there,” he said. “or,  
Scene Desk  speak, so getting people in and out of  snow. Take, for example, a few weeks  if they wanted to, they could watch  
(574) 631-4540 scene@ndsmcobserver.com  the facility takes a little bit longer, be- ago, when we had that snowstorm  it in their hotel room on an ipad, be- 
Saint Mary’s Desk ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu Photo Desk  cause the secret service has to check everyone through an airport securi­ on saturday — that came out of the blue.”  cause it’s streamed.”  
(574) 631-8767 photo@ndsmcobserver.com  ty-type checkpoint,” he said.  since the  university knows any- Contact Rachel O’Grady at   
Systems & Web Administrators  all  bags  will  be  checked,  and  thing can happen with the weather,  rogrady@nd.edu  
(574) 631-8839  

Policies 
The observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the university of notre dame du lac and saint mary’s college.  editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the editor-in-chief, managing editor, assistant managing editors and department editors. commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The observer. 
viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Margaret Hynds. 
post office information The observer (usps 599 2-4000) is published monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. a subscription to The observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. The observer is published at: 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-0779 periodical postage paid at notre dame and additional mailing offices posTmasTer send address corrections to: The observer p.o. box 779 024 south dining hall notre dame, in 46556-077 The observer is a member of the associated press. all reproduction rights are reserved. 



News Sports 
Katie galioto marek mazurek nicole caratas ben padanilam rachel o’grady manny de Jesus selena ponio elizabeth greason 

Graphics Scene 
susan Zhu erin mcauliffe 

Photo Viewpoint 
caitlyn Jordan claire radler 


Corrections 
The observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. we do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at 
(574) 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Observer Staff Report 
The university announced updated security measures for this weekend’s 171st commencement ceremony due to the attendance of vice president Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner, who will be jointly receiving the laetare medal during the ceremony. 
according to a press release, the procession of the graduates will be­gin at 9 a.m., but guests are encour­aged to arrive earlier due to expected delays. every guest will be required to pass through “airport-style security checkpoints operated by u.s. secret service personnel,” beginning at 7 
a.m. at gates a and c. 



nd increases graduation security 
“attendees are encouraged to check carefully their belongings before en­tering the security checkpoint lines,” the press release stated. “storage will not be provided for items prohibited for admission, meaning prohibited items must be discarded or returned to a personal vehicle. water and other beverages will be available for pur­chase at stadium concession stands.” 
items such as umbrellas, purses or bags larger than 12 by 12 by 12 inches, personal seatbacks, backpacks, signs or banners, unopened packages or gifts of any kind, containers of any type including bottles, cans or ther­moses, coolers, grocery bags, tote bags and duffels will all be banned, according to the release. a complete list of banned items can be found on the commencement website. 
if severe weather becomes an issue, the release stated the university will make the decision to move the cere­mony indoors by 10:30 p.m. saturday night. 
“This decision will be broadly com­municated via the ndalert system, through local news outlets, email messages, online at commencement. nd.edu and on university social me­dia accounts,” according to the press release. 
guests of the graduates will need to obtain a “severe weather” ticket, as general admissions tickets will not be honored if the ceremony is held inside. 

ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 



University names class of 2016 valedictorian 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 
abby davis — the class of 2016 valedictorian — said during her time at notre dame, she has learned how to “maintain a balance” be­tween the different aspects of her life. 
“personally, i think that’s been the biggest challenge of college — just finding bal­ance,” davis said. “i think that’s something that took me until this year to figure out.” 
davis, a native of avon lake, ohio, earned a 3.99 cu­mulative grade point aver­age (gpa) in her four years at notre dame and will gradu­ate with a degree in political science and minors in philos­ophy, politics and economics (ppe) and russian. she was also a member of the glynn Family honors program and a hesburgh-yusko scholar. 
The university’s selection committee invites students with gpas above a certain cutoff to submit a valedic­tory address and an invoca­tion, davis said. From there, the committee selects stu­dents to deliver the speech in debartolo performing arts center, where it is recorded, and submit a resume and let­ter of recommendation. 
davis said she was shocked and excited when she found out she had been named this year’s valedictorian. 
“honestly, there were a few moments where i wasn’t really breathing. it seemed very unreal,” she said. “i’m not sure it’s completely sunk in yet, but after the mo­ment of initial not breath­ing, i just felt excitement and gratitude.” 
davis said one of the most defining parts of her time at notre dame was the oppor­tunity to form relationships with professors. 
“one of the things i’ve loved most about studying at notre dame and in small classes is just the ability to regularly go to professors’ office hours and get to know them, get to talk about things outside of class,” she said. “i feel like professors have re­ally helped me get the most out of notre dame.” 
one class in particular, davis said, helped change the trajectory of her academ­ic career. 
“i took sophomore year, kind of on a whim, a class called ‘post-soviet russian [cinema]’ for my fine arts requirement,” she said. “i knew nothing about film, not so much about post-soviet russia, even less about post-soviet russian film.” 
davis spent the summer of 2014 studying abroad in latvia and the fall semester of the same year in chile. Then, in the summer of 2015, she took courses and con­ducted research in russia. 
“i just got really into it. The politics, the history — all of it was so interesting to me,” she said. “That’s actually what got me into russian in the first place, that spur-of­the-moment decision.” 
The day after graduation, davis will return to russia as a student aid on a university-sponsored trip before mov­ing to washington d.c. to start her job at avascent, a consulting firm for compa­nies in government-driven industries. 
outside the classroom, davis served as co-chair of the university’s code of honor committee and has been involved in vari­ous music ensembles and in community service at the south bend center for the homeless. she was a resident of ryan hall. 


“i think joining musical ensembles helped me be­cause it’s very much a team effort, coming together to work on something as one. it’s a huge stress reliever and, for me, helps create that bal­ance,” she said. 
davis said as a freshman, she could not have imagined being where she is today — she entered the university as a chemistry major. 
“i’m just thinking about how grateful i am for the whole notre dame expe­rience and everyone i’ve met here — all the amaz­ing friends, all the profes­sors who have been such important mentors to me,” she said. 
ultimately, davis said, it seems “unreal” that she will be a notre dame graduate in a few days time. 
“i’ve met some of the most incredible people i’ve ever known here at notre dame, who are also incredibly hard-working, incredibly supportive — just incredibly wonderful people,” she said. 
“i’m making lists of peo­ple i need to stop by and say goodbye to. and you know when you have a lot of real­ly hard goodbyes to say that you’ve had something really special.” 


Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 

nd announces first salutatorian in 45 years 
schafer was a project leader 


By KATIE GALIOTO 

for the student international business council (sibc) and senior stephen schafer, the investment club and a senior university’s first salutatorian mentor for the wall street club. in 45 years, said he never had a he spent the summer of 2013 preconceived notion of what he studying abroad in china and was going to do during the four participated in the two-week years leading up to graduation. ireland inside Track program in 
“i would say if anything de-the summer of 2014. fines my time at notre dame, after graduation, schafer it would be embracing uncer-has plans to travel to asia and tainty and diving into unknown europe. he will then go to places,” he said. work in investment banking 
hugh page, vice president and at goldman sachs in new york associate provost, dean of the city, where he interned during First year of studies and chair his undergraduate career. of the valedictorian selection before college, schafer said committee, said naming a salu-he knew he wanted to go into tatorian allows the university to finance, but he did not know “recognize in a more formal way what type of job he wanted to two outstanding seniors” who do. in seventh grade — and since i have a pretty balanced life in as seniors prepare to disperse will “represent the virtues and “i think that i came in and then, i started focusing on aca-terms of going out and going to across the country, schafer ideals animating a notre dame was open to a wide variety of ex-demics,” he said with a laugh. sporting events and what not.” said his classmates once again undergraduate education.” periences and took part in a lot “if i wanted to just get away, i do a defining part of his time have the chance to “embrace 
schafer, a native of edgewood, of different events, a lot of dif-that by studying.” at notre dame, schafer said, uncertainty.” Kentucky, has a 4.00 cumula-ferent clubs,” he said. “Through schafer said he strove to di-was his friendships with notre “Throughout my time here, tive grade point average and that, i was able to experience vide his time equally between dame football players sheldon it was more like i was jumping will graduate with degrees in basically everything in finance his academics and his social day and ronnie stanley. into everything — and wher­finance and economics. schafer from wealth management to life. “we all met freshman year ever it takes me, it takes me,” he was also a malpass scholar, a sales and trading, to investment “a lot of it just comes down and ended up becoming room-said. “it’s something i’m very merit-based award that pro-banking and private equity.” to time management, which mates,” schafer said. “…last happy i did and something i vides students with the oppor-schafer said he learned early i think i did very successfully week, both of them got drafted want to continue to do.” tunity to learn and be involved on how to manage his time ef-throughout college,” he said. “it into the nFl, and i was named with the process of managing ficiently and effectively. may have been at the sacrifice salutatorian. … it’s a uniquely Contact Katie Galioto at  the university’s endowment. “i hit my athletic prime back of some sleep, but i would say notre dame story.” kgalioto@nd.edu 
news editor 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



Saint Mary’s names three valedictorians 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
Editor’s note: A version of this story appeared in the print edi­tion of The Observer on March 18. 
saint mary’s announced the names of three students who will represent the class of 2016 as valedictorians 

after graduation, aldrich said she plans to study nu­clear chemistry at michigan state university’s graduate program. vizard said she will be working at ernst & young in chicago, while cavalier will attend medical school at loyola university in chicago. 
vizard said she was sur­prised when she found out she was one of three professors and students,” cavalier said. “it just felt like the right fit.” 
aldrich said saint mary’s has helped make her ac­countable for her own life. 
“i’ve learned a lot about the world around me and re­alized that i need to match what i believe with my ac­tions,” she said. “when i was 
“it makes the classroom experience so much better,” she said. “you don’t feel like you’re being talked at. That gave me a lot of confidence to speak up in class and share my opinions. … i think that confidence is what i’ve gained in general, but also the ability to be indepen­dent and leave here with no doubts of the success that i state school or another larger private school, and you don’t ever really go back or associ­ate yourself with the school after that,” she said. “i know i will have ties to this school and this area for the rest of my life. i know it is a place i will always come back to, a place that i’m always going to miss.” 
Paige Aldrich 
valedictorian chemistry and mathematics  

during the college’s 169th 



will see in the future. i don’t 
valedictorians. 
“i never thought there 

would be three,” she said. “i 
thought there would be some 
sort of tie-breaker. i never re­
ally thought about getting it. 
it wasn’t an explicit goal, but doubt my ability to do things 
that i want to do.” 
vizard said the college and 

the sophia program, saint 
mary’s liberal arts curricu­
lum requirements, helped 
her gain confidence in all ar­to be able to represent my eas of her life. class.” a freshman, i learned about “it’s caused i was very excited and proud 
me to try a aldrich said she is proud to 
commencement. 
The three honorees are paige aldrich, annie cavalier and alex vizard. aldrich is a chemistry and mathemat­ics double major, cavalier is a chemistry major with a concentration in biochem­istry and a minor in biology and vizard is an accounting major with a concentration in finance and a minor in mathematics. 

cavalier said during her college search, she initially did not have saint mary’s on her radar because her mother graduated from the college in 1988. she said she wanted to go somewhere that felt more like a place of her own, but then she came to the college to visit. 
“when i came to visit, i was walking through the buildings and talking to factory farms and realized that i needed to become veg­an in order to support what i believed to be right. i’ve also struggled with my faith throughout my life, so i took a critical look at my beliefs and have deeply improved my spiritual life.” 
cavalier said the close re­lationships between stu­dents and professors make saint mary’s special. 
lot of new things,” she said. “i took a lot of classes that i probably would have never tried taking, and i ended up really enjoying them. i think it’s caused me to expand my mindset and grow as a per­son in general.” 
cavalier said she is proud to a saint mary’s student be­cause of the college’s larger community. 
“you can graduate from a be graduating from a college that produces strong, kind, driven women. 

“i could have learned in­formation from textbooks,” she said, “but it wouldn’t have compared to the round­ed education that i’ve gotten from the caring, intelligent professors at saint mary’s.” 

Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
smc to award honorary degrees 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this story appeared in the print edi­tion of The Observer on March 17. 
victoria “Tori” murden mcclure, president of spalding university, will speak at the 169th saint mary’s commencement ceremony, which will take place may 14 on le mans green, according to a college press release. The 350 graduating students rep­resent 31 states and four coun­tries, and three students will be valedictorians, the release said. 
mcclure is the author of “a pearl in the storm,” which doc­uments her adventure across the atlantic, according to the book’s website. she is best known for being both the first woman and first american to row solo across the atlantic ocean, as well as to ski to the geographic south pole, the website said. a self-proclaimed explorer, mcclure is chair of the board of the national outdoor leadership school, according to the website. 
prior to her presidency at spalding, mcclure was a chap­lain of boston city hospital, a policy assistant to the mayor of louisville, Ky. and the di­rector of a shelter for homeless women, the press release said. according to the release, she will be receiving an honorary doctorate of humanities for her commitment to public service. 

along with mcclure, sister Joan marie steadman and portia prebys will be receiv­ing honorary degrees from the college, the release said. 
steadman will be recognized for her leadership abilities and her mission-focused efforts to preserve the legacies of both the college and the congre­gation, the press release said. she is the executive director of the leadership conference of women religious and a board member of loyola university health system in chicago, ac­cording to the release. she also served on the college’s board of regents, now known as the board of Trustees, from 1982 to 2006, and maintained her po­sition during her presidency of the congregation of the sisters of the holy cross, the release said. 
prebys will receive an hon­orary doctorate of humani­ties, according to the press release. she serves as the di­rector of saint mary’s study abroad program in rome and will be recognized for her life’s dedication to the cul­tural exchange between italy and the united states, the re­lease stated. a ‘66 graduate of the college, prebys received a Fulbright Fellowship to study renaissance history in italy, where she currently resides, the press release said. 

Notre Dame to confer seven honorary degrees 
Observer Staff Report 

Editor’s note: A version of this story appeared in the print edi­tion of The Observer on March 3. 
notre dame will confer seven honorary degrees at this year’s commencement ceremony, the university announced in a press re­lease wednesday. 
diane nash, rita colwell, richard notebaert, arturo sandoval, cardinal donald wuerl and pauline yu will join u.s. army gen. martin dempsey, the 2015 com­mencement speaker, as honorary degree recipients. 
dempsey, the chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff from 2011 to 2015, will re­ceive an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
nash, a civil rights move­ment leader, will also re­ceive a doctor of laws. nash helped shaped the selma right-to-vote movement that eventually led to the voting rights act of 1965, according to the press re­lease. she also participated in peaceful protests of the vietnam war and worked in support of women’s rights. 
colwell, a molecular microbiologist, will re­ceive a doctor of science. colwell’s work focuses on global infectious diseases, water and health and is a highly-sought after coun­selor on science policy and education matters, accord­ing to the press release. she is the distinguished university professor at the university of maryland and Johns hopkins university bloomberg school of public health, has authored or co­authored 17 books and more than 800 scientific publica­tions and has been awarded 61 honorary degrees. 
notebaert, chair of notre dame’s board of Trustees, will receive a doctor of laws. notebaert is the re­tired chair and ceo of Qwest communications international. during his time as chair, the university has provided more finan­cial aid, welcomed more diverse groups of incoming students and launched the campus crossroads con­struction project, the press release stated. effective July 1, notebart will be succeed­ed as chair of the board by John brennan. 
The university will honor arturo sandoval, an inter­nationally acclaimed jazz and classical musician and composer, with a doctor of fine arts. sandoval, who began playing the trum­pet at age 12 at his home in cuba, has since received 10 grammy awards, six billboard awards, an emmy award and the presidential medal of Freedom in 2013, according to the release. sandoval continues to tour, perform and offer clinics across the globe. 
wuerl, the archbishop of washington d.c., will receive an honorary doc­tor of laws. wuerl was ap­pointed a cardinal by pope benedict Xvi in march 2010 and is a chair of the board of Trustees of the basilica of the national shrine of the immaculate conception, according to the release. he serves on several vatican congregations, councils and commissions and served as the bishop of pittsburgh for 18 years 
The university will award an honorary doc­tor of humanities to pauline yu, president of the american council of learned societies, a pri­vate, nonprofit federation of 73 national scholarly or­ganizations that represent american scholarship in the humanities and related social sciences, according to the release. yu previ­ously served as dean of hu­manities at the university of california, los angeles and has taught at the university of california, irvine, columbia university and the university of minnesota. 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


general will deliver address 
Observer Staff Report 
Editor’s note: A version of this story ran in the Sept. 30 edition of The Observer. 
general martin dempsey will speak at the university’s 171st commencement ceremony on sunday, the university announced sept. 30. 
as chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff, dempsey served as the nation’s high­est-ranking military officer. 
dempsey, who retired sept. 30 after four years at the po­sition, spoke on campus in september 2014 on the threats facing the u.s. for the annual Jack Kelly and gail weiss lecture on national security. during that same visit, he presented the american flag 

during the ceremonies before the football game against michigan, according to the press release. 
according to the press re­lease, dempsey graduated in 1974 from the u.s. military academy and later earned a master’s degree in english from duke university be­fore serving as an assistant professor of english at west point for three years. he also holds master’s degrees in military art and national se­curity sciences. 
according to the release, dempsey deployed with the Third armored division in support of operation desert storm in 1991, followed by assignments in germany, saudi arabia and iraq. 
Throughout his career, dempsey has served all over the world, and received awards including the defense distinguished service medal with oak leaf cluster, the distinguished service medal with three oak leaf clusters, the defense superior service medal, the legion of merit with two oak leaf clusters, the bronze star with “v” device and oak leaf cluster, the combat action badge and the parachutist badge, ac­cording to the press release. 
notre dame’s commencement ceremony will be held in notre dame stadium on sunday at 9 a.m. 


ND awards Laetare to Biden, Boehner 
By KATIE GALIOTO 
news editor 

Editor’s Note: A version of this story ran in the April 15 edition of The Observer 
The  university  will  
jointly  award  the  laetare  
medal  to  vice  president  

Joe biden and former speaker of the house John boehner at notre dame’s 2016 commencement, the university announced in a press release march 5. 
The decision sparked a controversy — on campus and on a national scale 
— and has received both criticism and support from various members of the notre dame community. 
“i don’t think controver­sies are necessarily a bad thing if they lead us to have serious conversations, to think deeply about issues,” Jenkins said in the inter­view with The observer. 
The laetare medal is awarded to an american catholic at notre dame’s commencement each year in recognition of outstand­ing service to the church and society. The award honors catholics in all dif­ferent fields; recent recipi­ents include singer aaron neville, biologist Kenneth miller and poet dana gloria. 
The decision to honor two catholic politicians was not a timely one in light of the upcoming election, Jenkins said, but instead meant to recognize biden and boehner’s many years of service to the country as their political careers be­gin to wind down. 
“we’re not endorsing the active politicians who are going to have a campaign,” he said. “but i thought it was an opportunity to rec­ognize people who had ris­en to the very highest level of political leadership. For their dedication to public service, their willingness to work with others for the common good, we recog­nize them with the laetare.” 
Jenkins said the decision to award the medal to two members of different po­litical parties was to avoid any perception of the university endorsing one or the other. 
“i said before, and i’ll say it again, this award does not endorse the particular posi­tions of either person,” he said. “… i think it’s signifi­cant these two men, despite being of different parties disagreeing on so much, be­came and remain friends.” 
The decision was meant to address the division and animosity present in to­day’s political environment, Jenkins said. 
“i do want, with this award, to fight against the tendency that those who disagree with us are neces­sarily evil or worthy only of our disdain,” he said. “we can disagree — and even disagree on significant moral issues — and still find laudable qualities in those with whom we disagree.” 
each year, a committee provides recommendations to Jenkins, who is free, but not required, to select an honoree from the list of suggestions. biden and boehner were not on this year’s list of proposed re­cipients, but Jenkins chose to award the medal to the two individuals after dis­cussing the matter with the committee, he said. 


in response to Jenkins’ decision, bishop Kevin rhoades, of the Fort wayne-south bend diocese, released a statement con­demning the university’s choice due to biden’s stanc­es on abortion and same-sex marriage. rhoades said he is concerned honoring biden and boehner will pro­voke “scandal,” as defined in the catholic sense. 
“That is a somewhat technical word in catholic thought that means that the action creates the impres­sion that we’re sanctioning or encouraging immoral or unjust actions,” Jenkins said. “i have the greatest respect for the bishop and want to respond by explain­ing our intentions, in the hope that i can counter any misperceptions leading to scandal.” 
multiple groups have written letters to the editor in the observer’s viewpoint section voicing their dis­sent. more than 3,000 in­dividuals — many notre dame alumni — have signed a petition professing their agreement with the bishop, urging the university to re­consider the decision. 
Jenkins said he wants to articulate the meaning of the award and his rea­sons for choosing it, a les­son he learned when the university invited obama to speak at notre dame’s 2009 commencement. 
“what i’ve tried to do, and will try to do, is just explain clearly what we’re doing,” he said. “people can dis­agree; i don’t think that’s necessarily a bad thing, as long as it leaves to substan­tive, constructive discus­sion and not just acrimony.” 
a majority of the criticism is directed at biden, which Jenkins said he is afraid re­flects a one-sided partisan approach. 
“i’m certainly not saying that i support all the vice president’s positions,” he said. “but i do find, in the record, that he took account of his catholic faith, even while trying to make deci­sions on legislation — that’s often complex in a nation on issues on which the na­tion is deeply divided.” 
ultimately, Jenkins said he thinks a public ser­vant can exemplify what it means to be a catholic lead­er, regardless of his or her political affiliation. 
“i think it’s important to evaluate, to take ac­count both of that range of [catholic] teachings and take account of the com­plex realities of our nation that is so deeply divided on these issues,” he said. 


Contact Katie Galioto at  kgalioto@nd.edu 




ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 



ND, SMC student governments reflect on year 
Baker/Kohler administration aimed to improve student opportunities and enhance campus events 
By ALLISON SANCHEZ 
news writer 
when seniors Kaitlyn baker and maddie Kohler took office as student body president and vice president in august, their goal was to improve numerous aspects of campus life, including security and communications between the student body and the administration. 
“our goals were to improve safety for the students on and off campus, provide more op­portunities for the student body, student government and admin­istration, and enhance already existing campus events and im­prove student participation at these events,” Kohler said. 
baker said the two worked hard to be present on campus and address the needs of the stu­dent body. 
“we hosted a community dialogue event in collaboration with [student diversity board], we met with [college president carol ann mooney] to dis­cuss student concerns and we reached out to many students who openly expressed concerns on social media,” she said. 
during their one year term, Kohler and baker were tasked with many duties and roles on campus. baker said she was sur­prised by her role as a liaison be­tween the student body and the administration. 

“i didn’t expect to be so in­volved with administration and sit on many committees where i had the ability to vote,” she said. “i really enjoyed having the op­portunity to provide the student perspective at those meetings.” 
Kohler said she did not antici­pate the recognition that comes along with being a leader on campus. 
“i was so surprised to have everyone from administration, students, alumnae and even the board of Trustees say hello and genuinely ask how everything is going within the student gov­ernment association [sga],” she said. 
Kohler said that while they were able to improve commu­nication on campus, the two are most proud of their executive board and committee chairs’ accomplishments. 
“we had an amazing group this year and would not have been so successful without their hard work and dedication,” Kohler said. “we hope the events they hosted, speakers they brought in and enthusiasm they had enhanced the saint mary’s experience for the student body.” 
Kohler said flexibility is an im­portant trait to have as sga vice president. 
“you go into office and have all these goals you want to accomplish,” she said. “as time progresses, other issues arise that you need to deal with first and some of your goals are put on the back burner and that is oK. some things are more im­portant than others.” 
baker said she advises the in­coming president to enjoy every moment of her time as a leader on campus. 
“it goes by really fast and it is very easy to get caught up in the hard work and stress of it all,” she said. “make sure you take the time to enjoy the experience.” 
baker said her time as presi­dent gave her the chance to be­come involved in different areas of the college. 
“i will miss getting to be so in­vested in the saint mary’s com­munity,” she said. “The college has become a large part of who i am, and i really enjoyed get­ting to leave my legacy at saint mary’s.” 
baker, who majored in communicative sciences and disorders, will be attending the university of northern colorado to receive a master’s degree in speech language pathology, and Kohler, who majored in business administration and economics, will move to chicago to work for pepsico. 


Contact Allison Sanchez at asanch01@saintmarys.edu 




Ricketts/Ruelas administration focused on raising awareness of sexual assault 
By RACHEL O’GRADY 
associate news editor 
Editor’s note: A version of this story ran in the April 1 edition of The Observer. 
when their time in office ended april 1, outgoing stu­dent body president and vice president bryan ricketts and nidia ruelas said they were proud of the work they did and excited for the work left to do. 
“it’s very bittersweet. i’m ex­cited for corey and becca to get a start, for the cabinet to take on some issues that affect our students. i’m excited to get some time back to myself, but it’s also, as we’re getting ready and giving them all these tran­sition materials and prepping … it’s bittersweet,” ricketts said. 
ricketts said the inability to continue working on the many initiatives set forth by their administration is frustrating; however, he said he is excited to see how the next adminis­tration steps up. 
“we’re putting together these materials on issues that are going on — i keep say­ing ‘oh, i could do this,’ but no, i can’t anymore and that’s hard,” he said. 
ruelas said it has been a priv­ilege to serve as vice president for the past academic year. 
“i feel very proud of every­thing we’ve accomplished this year. we’ve had so many suc­cesses and failures. i think that in all of those, though, we’ve learned so much — about our­selves, about the people we work with — and i’d like to say that we’ve all grown, as indi­viduals and as a group,” she said. 
in a high-pressure and result-driven environment, growth is something that is hard to quantify, ruelas said. 
“it’s something you can’t put a timeline on, you can’t put any kind of measure or value on, but i feel very proud that we’ve come this far and been able to accomplish so much,” she said. 
ricketts said he was happy with the execution of their campaign promise to promote sexual assault awareness. 
“with the ‘it’s on us’ cam­paign out in the dorms and getting people talking about that and helping funnel them into the green dot program, i think we were very success­ful,” he said. “i’m happy with the work we did on our board report, researching and walk­ing with survivors of sexual violence, in particular with the conduct process and the Title iX process and what we needed to improve with that.” 
The university has prom­ised to release the campus climate survey results from last year, which ricketts said was a major success for his administration. 
“i’m pretty happy on the transparency front as well,” he said. “getting the promise of releasing the survey was huge. i think that was one of, if not our biggest goal. That’s all stuff to be proud of, i think.” 
ruelas said the adminis­tration also made progress improving the climate at the university as it pertains to sexual assault. 
“From the prayer services, and getting students to at­tend those, to asking people to think about being active by­standers and understanding that it’s all on us as individu­als to really make sure that we identify situations and step in … we’ve created a culture of caring, all the time — even when it’s the hardest thing to do,” she said. 
ricketts said he has learned a lot about himself and grown as a leader during the past year. 
“i understand a lot more about who i am and what i want to accomplish, but also how to do all that through relationships — with the ad­ministrators, with the cabinet, with the people that aren’t in student government at all. you go back to at the end of the day and ask for help, and all those relationships were key,” ricketts said. 
ruelas said she also learned about the importance of re­lationships, particularly hers with the student body. 
“i’ve learned about how resilient we are as a student body, and how important that is to accomplishing our goals, and it really is that we hold each other accountable to a higher standard of character,” she said. “i think that that’s been super important, as we’ve had to learn for ourselves, and we’ve had to tap into that de­sire to always be better and that desire to always be the best people we can be.” 
as they leave office and the incoming robinson-blais administration takes over, ricketts said he hopes that they have left a strong founda­tion, particularly in regards to the relationship between the university and south bend. 
“i know [that relationship] is a major focus of so many people, corey and becca in­cluded, but also so many people across the community, and we’ve tried to get the word out there about south bend,” ricketts said. “… The future of notre dame is with the fu­ture of south bend, and that’s become evidently clear. i hope we’ve left a good foundation for that to grow on.” 

Contact Rachel O’Grady at   rogrady@nd.edu 




Saint Mary’s names Outstanding Senior 
“There are universal is-marc belanger, global senior award. said. “you can see the initial 
By MARTHA REILLY 

sues that we can all revolve studies professor, said in an “i don’t think i have ever impact of everything that 
associate saint mary’s editor 
graduates of the college will receive their diplomas saturday, but this year’s outstanding senior eleanor Jones said she has already earned the most valuable gift possible — a saint mary’s education. 
Jones, a global studies ma­jor, said she was surprised to around,” Jones said. “you get to realize more of your simi­larities and your differences and how you can celebrate them.” 
Jones said she spent two summers at saint mary’s working for the study of the united states institute (susi), where women from north 
africa and the middle east 

email Jones’s desire to under­stand and improve the world around her is evident in her superior work. 
“as a student, [Jones] has first rate writing and analytic skills comparable to other outstanding students, but what makes her different is had a student any more de­termined to figure out the best way for her to make a dif­ference in the world or more willing to question her own motives and goals with more honesty,” belanger said. “i think she can do that because she never forgets that it’s not about theories or ideologies, 
but about human beings.” 
you’ve done.” 
Though Jones has contrib­uted to the community, she said her classmates’ success is most impressive to her. 
“i think that we have a lot of students who found what they are passionate about and have started applying it,” Jones said. “we’ve got a well-round­
ed student body.” 

that [Jones] really cares about the human dimension of the issues we are discussing and asks questions that always push the discussion to a deep­er level than it might normally go,” belanger said. “while her gpa shows that she gets a’s most of the time, it is this level of what i would call ethical seriousness that makes her so interesting to work with.” 
according to belanger, Jones’s desire to respond to global challenges makes her deserving of the outstanding 
paid adverTisemenT 
learn that her leadership, ser­develop action plans they Jones said the support of Jones will return to south 
vice and academic achieve-want to implement in their belanger, along with other africa for a year of service at a 

ment qualified her for this home countries. Through her faculty and staff, enables her children’s home. she said stu­

award. 
work with susi, as well as her to be her best self. dents should view every chal­

“it was really unexpected year-long study abroad expe­“most of the things i’ve lenge as a path to success and 

just because i know how many rience in south africa, Jones done are because a professor make the most of their college 

people in our class are so pas­sionate about what they do,” she said. “we’ve got a great student body with a lot of peo­ple who do different activities across the board, so honestly i wasn’t expecting it because we have so many incredible people. Knowing that makes it an even bigger honor.” 
Jones said her involvement with the center for women’s intercultural leadership en­hanced her college experi­ence by encouraging her to appreciate other lifestyles while recognizing a common humanity. 


said she learned the impor­tance of intercultural leader­ship and sensitivity. in 2014, the Jordanian team proposed a company called shecab, in which all passengers and driv­ers are female. 
“i got to go to Jordan to give them moral support, and we went to the embassy with them when they pre­sented their business plan,” Jones said. “we decided we wanted to start a fundraiser on campus to show that saint mary’s still supported them even though they weren’t here anymore.” 

THE 
has tapped me on the shoul­der and said ‘hey, i think this would be a good idea,’” she said. “saint mary’s has kept pushing me to get outside my comfort zone. i feel like i’m al­ways presented with different opportunities, and it’s been hard for me to say no.” 
Jones said one of her most meaningful accomplishments is helping to pioneer the Food recovery program, which do­nates leftovers from the din­ing hall to the center for the homeless. 
“we’ve saved about 5,100 pounds since last year,” Jones years. 
Jones said saint mary’s shapes its students into goal-oriented, compassionate lead­ers capable of changing the world. 
“in a world where women are often times pitted against each other, here we’ve got this community of people constantly trying to support each other,” Jones said. “it has taught me to be strong and confident in what i say, and i think that’s pretty special.” 
Contact Martha Reilly at mreilly01@saintmarys.edu 

The Notre Dame  MS in Management 
The business degree for non-business majors with no work experience. Learn the language of business and enhance your resume. Give us 10 months and we’ll give you the tools to turn 




NEXT 
your passion into a profession. 
Apply Now: Program begins June 14 mendoza.nd.edu/msm 


STEP 

paid adverTisemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13,  2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND, SMC seniors to volunteer, enter workforce 



Saint Mary’s seniors to attend graduate schools, enter workforce and participate in service 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
The saint mary’s office of institutional research con­ducted the annual graduation destination survey to gain a gen­eral statistical overlook on what graduates of the class of 2016 in­tend to do after graduation. 
according to the survey, of the 331 women in the graduating class, 283 students responded for a response rate of 85.5 percent. 
The survey showed that 67.7 percent of students will enter the workforce, 31.2 percent will attend graduate or professional school and 12.8 percent will participate in an internship or externship. 
The data also showed that 7.1 percent of students will partici­pate in voluntary service. 
stacie Jeffirs, director of the career crossings office, said saint mary’s encourages students to participate in voluntary service. 
“The one great thing about saint mary’s is it’s encouraged to participate in service — it’s part of the curriculum,” Jeffirs said. “students have an opportunity to explore those options a little bit more readily at the college, and they are encouraged to pursue those opportunities post-gradu­ation. There’s a strong value here at saint mary’s in service to oth­ers, so i think it’s definitely one of those areas that students are very interested in pursuing. 
“it’s a great opportunity after you graduate, especially for stu­dents who are in their own dis­cernment process and trying to learn a little more about who they are and where they see them­selves in the world. being able to go out and participate in service for three months, a year, two years — it’s a great opportunity for graduates to learn a lot about themselves.” 
The survey showed that 2.5 percent of students will enroll in military service, which is an in­crease from the previous gradu­ating class, which had fewer than .5 percent. 
5.7 percent of students report­ed having “other” post-gradua­tion plans. according to Jeffirs, “other” includes fellowships, traveling and taking a gap year. Jeffirs said there is overlap in the data because some students will volunteer or work, while also at­tending graduate school. 
Jeffirs said this data demon­strates the college’s mission. 
“you have to look at not just the statistics and the data and the percentages of where students are going, but you also have to look at where they are going and what they are doing and how that fits in with how they believe saint mary’s has prepared them for the world,” Jeffirs said. “regardless, if the student is going to employ­ment or graduate school, going into service [or the] military, the graduates think saint mary’s has prepared them very well for what they pursue.” 
sofia piecuch, a senior global studies major with concentra­tions in international develop­ment and anthropology, will move to geneva, switzerland to intern at the istituto internazionale maria ausiliatrice (iima) and volunteers in development, education and solidarity (vides) human rights office, she said. 
“its mission is to promote a network between the salesian family — the biggest catholic religious order in the world — and the united nations, in order to protect and promote human rights,” piecuch said. “The office seeks to be specifically involved in the drafting of international policies that promote the right to education for all.” 
beginning in January, piecuch will spend two years as a mis­sionary with heart’s home, a catholic non-profit organization that aims to foster and spread a culture of compassion, she said. 
“This is an international mis­sion that focuses on accom­panying the poorest and most vulnerable members of society,” she said. “i have not yet been given an assignment, but my top three choices were senegal, brazil and the philippines.” 
after graduating, senior danielle gibaut plans to move to chicago and work as an account executive at chicago-23, a mar­keting agency. gibaut, who ma­jored in business administration with concentrations in marketing and international business, said saint mary’s has prepared her in different ways for her future. 
“all of the group projects helped me gain better commu­nication skills,” gibaut said. “The [senior comprehensive project] from my fall semester definitely prepared me for the world i’ll be doing in the real business world. i found my voice here at saint mary’s, and i know that’ll be something i carry through my career path.” 

senior melissa Fitzpatrick ma­jored in communication studies with minors in public relations, advertising and film studies. she said she will be doing a year of ser­vice in brockton, massachusetts. 
“i’ll be volunteering for an or­ganization called the holy cross Family ministries,” Fitzpatrick said. “Their mission is to bring families together through prayer. The year of service also includes living in community with about seven other volunteers. we’ll share dinners, weekend activities and really learn to live in solidary with one another.” 
according to Fitzpatrick, she is excited for this journey and said she could not have done it with­out saint mary’s. 
“saint mary’s has taught me how to be a better friend, listener, student and servant,” she said. “i wouldn’t be where i am standing today without my saint mary’s friends, professors and mentors. graduating from saint mary’s, i know i am prepared to face what­ever is in store for me.” 
senior isabella gagnon, who majored in psychology, will be commissioned as a second lieutenant in the army signal corps. she said in an email she will report to Fort gordon, georgia for signal and communi­cation training in september. 
“saint mary’s really helped me step out of my comfort zone and really empowered me as an in­dependent woman,” she said. “i feel so confident going to a work force that is only about 15 percent women. i was able to write my se­nior thesis on challenges women face in the military, so i feel very excited for the opportunities that i will have to give women in the military more of a voice.” 
gagnon said she and her fian­cée will both be part of the active duty army, and she is excited for the future. 
“i hope there will be many op­portunities for me to share my faith when we move to new places and make new friends,” she said. “i’m so thankful to always have saint mary’s and be part of such a wonderful alumni network.” 

Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 
Notre Dame class of 2016 pursues 
service opportunities, full-time 



employment after graduation 
By SELENA PONIO 
associate news editor 
senior Jessica Zic stumbled upon her post-graduation plans one day in an email she received from the center for social concerns. Zic, a neuroscience and behavior ma­jor with a supplemental major in latino studies, said she knew she wanted to try something new after graduating but was unsure exactly what that entailed. 
“i knew i wanted to do some­thing different after school be­cause i’d been a student my whole life,” Zic said. “i wanted to see the world from a different angle before i started medical school and went back to the classroom.” 
after graduation, Zic will be vol­unteering at casa de esperanza de los niños in houston, Texas, a non­profit organization that helps kids who are in crisis due to abuse or neglect. according to Zic, she will be a part of the residential program and live in a house with interns and children under six years old. 
“it just seemed like a really great place where i could do a lot for a very vulnerable population and grow as a person there before con­tinuing on with my plans as a doc­tor,” Zic said. 
Zic said she is currently in the midst of applying for medical school for the fall of 2017. 
“working with children that young, there’s so much going on in terms of brain development and health,” she said. “if you’re able to provide really good care for chil­dren that age, the impact will last their whole lives.” 
according to the First destination data for the class of 2015 on the career center’s web­site, seven percent of students went on to participate in a service pro­gram after graduation, 62 percent of graduates entered full employ­ment, 26 percent went onto gradu­ate or professional school and two percent entered the military. Two percent still sought employment, while another two percent had other plans, the data said. 
Zic said she believes notre dame places a huge role on the impor­tance of service and her involve­ment with the center for social concerns was vital in her decision to pursue service post-graduation. 
“all of those service experiences … i really learned a lot from them and having an opportunity to serve for a whole year was some­thing that was really special to me, just because of what i got through the previous experiences,” Zic said. 
senior and finance major Kimberly sammons will be work­ing in phoenix, ariz. as an analyst for amazon in their operations Finance rotational program, she said. 
“i didn’t know where i wanted to live permanently, but i figured this would be a good opportunity to get involved with a great international company and experience more areas of the country than i had be­fore,” sammons said. 
sammons said she will be work­ing on the financial analytics of the company and figuring out how to reduce company costs without compromising quality. 
sammons said the ethics of business that she learned during her time at notre dame are just as important as her background knowledge in finance and learned communication skills. 
“notre dame teaches you how to be a good business person ethical­ly and how to succeed without hav­ing to sacrifice any of your morals and values,” sammons said. 
senior computer science major Kendra bilardello said she will be a software engineer in st. louis, mo. for The boeing company at their virtual warfare center. 
“it was appealing to me because i really liked the defense aspect of computer science and helping in a way that’s more related to defend­ing the country,” bilardello said. “a lot of it is ... figure out where boeing should put money into in the future and what sort of things pilots want to see ... 10 years down the road.” 
she said her classes familiarized her with the software boeing used. bilardello said boeing is a great opportunity because of the 2,000 software engineers in st. louis and the availability of different projects for engineers. 
rising seniors should remain optimistic about their job search, bilardello said. 
“don’t worry if you don’t get something before fall break,” she said. “people are still looking sec­ond semester so don’t panic — notre dame is very good about prepping people for jobs. There is something out there.” 


Contact Selena Ponio at sponio@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 




Seniors revel in last week on campus 
ND Senior Week commemorates students’ four years together with Commencement Ball, Chicago trip 
By COURTNEY BECKER 
news writer 
during the days leading up to graduation, senior week offered members of the class of 2016 one more chance to celebrate and come togeth­er through several different events. 
senior week committee head sarah price said her experience working senior week as a junior last year equipped her with the skills and knowledge necessary to plan this year’s agenda. 
“i know that a lot of differ­ent people were talking to the senior class officers and i was, i think, one of the few people who had gone through it last year, so it gave me a lot of good insight into what i wanted to improve, change upon or even keep the same,” she said. 
while senior class council (scc) was included throughout the planning process, scc vice president shannon montague said she gives full credit to price and her committee for organiz­ing a fun week of events. 
“sarah has done an absolute­ly incredible job with senior week — we couldn’t have asked for a better person,” montague said. “we pretty much trusted her with everything, and she always kept us in the loop.” 
online ticket sales were a new change to the week this year, senior week committee member senior Ted cogan said, and allowed more students the opportunity to secure tickets to popular events. in past years, seniors had to purchase tick­ets in person, but this year all ticket sales were coordinated through student shop nd, an online platform for student group sales and donations. 
another new addition to senior week was domerfest 2.0, a recreation of the class of 2016’s freshman year domerfest, price said. 
“basically, we are doing ex­actly what you think it is. it is domerfest all over again in stepan center, just like we had it when i was a freshman,” price said in an interview before senior week started. “That’s one thing that i’m really actu­ally proud of, and i think it’s going to be a ton of fun. it’s re­ally ridiculous now, what we have going on for it, but there’s going to be just basically un­limited ice cream, donuts and coffee, chick-fil-a, pizza, six-foot beach balls and glow sticks, so it’s just going to be crazy — it’s going to be a fun night.” 
price said domerfest 2.0 gar­nered a surprisingly strong re­sponse from the senior class, with about 1,300 people at­tendees.  additionally, the service project was a popular event, cogan said, and came as a pleasant surprise to the committee. 
“we sold out of the service event really quickly,” he said. “it’s kind of cool that people made it their mission to say they want to do service on this week that’s really supposed to be about us. ... we’ve been urg­ing people to find other ways to do that because, even though the senior week committee can’t provide it, anyone can reach out to all those different organizations.” 
price said each senior class has its own vision of senior week, which this year’s com­

“We put a lot of time and a lot of hard work into all of [the events], so I’m just looking forward to seeing all the seniors show up to all of them and just enjoy. It’s supposed to be a fun week – each event we’ve taken a lot of time and care with, so we’re really making sure that the day of, everyone is getting what they want.” 
Sarah Price 
committee head 
Senior Week 
mittee has taken into account while preparing for the week. 
“we put a lot of time and a lot of hard work into all of [the events], so i’m just looking for­ward to seeing all the seniors show up to all of them and just enjoy,” she said in an interview before the week. “it’s supposed to be a fun week — each event we’ve taken a lot of time and care with, so we’re really mak­ing sure that the day of, every­one is getting what they want.” 
The senior class’s engage­ment in senior week is indica­tive of the spirit of the class of 2016, cogan said. 
“i think we’ve been very pleased at how well our class has engaged in it,” he said. 
“on certain events we were worried about numbers. ... but i think we’re kind of one of those classes that just says, ‘everyone’s going to Finni’s on monday night to see standup,’ or ‘everyone’s going to corby’s for this one thing,’ and i think that very much shows in our senior week attendance.” 
price said one of the high­lights of senior week will be the annual commencement ball on wednesday night. 
“i think i’m probably most excited for the commencement ball, to experience that with my own friends as a senior,” price said. “last year, i was there as a junior and i had a blast working it, so i’m excited to actually attend it in my own right.” 
cogan said in an interview before the week that he thinks the class grotto trip, the final event of senior week, will be a fitting end to the week. 
“[i’m excited for] the grotto, actually,” he said. “it’s the last event of the whole thing, and i think ... after all this hectic craziness of senior week and the fun exhausting stuff, that’ll be really nice for everyone to come together and just kind of be with each other for one last sentimental, reverent time.” 
aside from the events she and the committee planned, price said senior week serves as an opportunity for mem­bers of the class of 2016 to con­nect one last time without any distractions. 
“i think it’s a culmination of our four years and at this point i think a lot of us are just re­ally excited to have that last week on campus without any class, without any tests or pa­pers due and just really be able to enjoy everyone around you and catch up with people that you may not have seen even for a couple of years,” she said. “i think there’s definitely going to be a lot of tears shed, but happy tears.” 
montague said she appre­ciates members of the senior class having a chance to cel­ebrate with each other one last time before graduating. 
“yes, i’m going to miss every­one, but the fact that we get to celebrate this entire week with the campus all to ourselves is such an incredible opportuni­ty,” montague said. “i wouldn’t want to spend my last days on campus with anyone else.” 
Contact Courtney Becker at cbecker3@nd.edu 




Saint Mary’s students celebrate time at College with Opening of the Circle, Letter Writing Project 
By NICOLE CARATAS 
saint mary’s editor 
in the week leading up to commencement, se­niors had the opportunity to participate in different activities to celebrate the traditions and sisterhood fostered at saint mary’s. 
The week is a time for students to have one more chance to spend time to­gether as a class, senior class president coco craig said. 
“it’s time for memories,” craig said. 
according to craig, the week began with a senior formal sunday, followed by the alumnae-senior champagne brunch, yoga and scavenger hunt monday. 
senior class vice president lindsay rzepecki said the class of 2016 participation in the class gift campaign 
— in which each class tries to achieve 100 percent par­ticipation in raising money for saint mary’s — will be revealed, and the class’s gift will be presented to college president carol ann mooney on monday. 
domerfest 2.0 and babetostal were held on Tuesday, and the class took a trip wednesday to chicago for a cubs baseball game at wrigley Field. 
The main events of the week took place Thursday, craig said, when students painted handprints in the underground tunnel that connects le mans hall and the saint mary’s student center and participated in the saint mary’s tradition of opening of the circle. additionally, they received their letters from the letter writing project, had a par­ty on the island in lake marian and had their final walk down the avenue. 
“The opening of the circle is a tradition where the president of the class reads a script that basi­cally prepares to send us off, but reminds us we are always welcome to come home,” craig said. “The letter writing project is a genius idea the class of 2015 started. Friends, faculty and family write letters to stu­dents about the positive im­pact they have contributed.” 
The opening of the circle will be a time of reflection for the graduates, rzepecki said. 
“opening of the circle will surely be a sentimental mo­ment for all of us graduating seniors, as we participated in a very similar ceremony [closing of the circle] on our first day at saint mary’s,” she said. “we will reflect in prayer and join hands with our classmates.” 
rzepecki said the week aimed to make memories for students to “carry with us as we move past the com­fort of saint mary’s.” 
“each memory, person, hardship and celebration has made our own person­al saint mary’s story,” she said. “These unique and precious gifts are some­thing we will not be able to relive, but they will live on. This is the opportunity to celebrate those memories with just us, and only us — the class of 2016. it’s a time of celebration, and we cer­tainly deserve it.” 
senior isabella gagnon said in an email she was ex­cited to spend her final days at saint mary’s with her classmates. 
“senior week has really allowed me to hang out with girls that i may not usually hang out with, that aren’t in the same major or clubs that i am,” gagnon said. “it’s also an extra week that we get to pretend we aren’t about to be real adults. we can just … bond with our fellow belles all week with­out the stress of finals.” 
gagnon said she is look­ing forward to the senior letter writing project, as well as other events during the week. 
“i am excited for taking our final walk down the avenue,” she said. “i’m pret­ty sure this is the part where i will start crying uncon­trollably. … i want to get as much out of my saint mary’s experience as possible. i think it’s important to go to yoga classes and handprint paining to really do that. i’m not doing every senior week event, but i will make the best out of the ones i do go to.” 


Contact Nicole Caratas at  ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 



ND seniors receive student leadership awards 
By ANDREA VALE 
news writer 
on april 7, seven seniors were honored at the student leadership awards banquet. each student was the recipient of one of seven annual awards honoring graduating seniors who, according to a division of student affairs press release, “have made exceptional con­tributions to the notre dame community.” 

Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism 
maggie bowers received the denny moore award for excellence in Journalism, which according to the press release is awarded to a senior who ex­emplifies “integrity, character, commitment to notre dame and writing ability.” 
bowers has been involved with the dome yearbook since her freshman year at notre dame, and served as editor-in­chief of the publication this past school year. 
“our goal is to capture a year in the life of a notre dame student in 352 pages, which sounds like a lot, but once you include seniors and subtract all of those pages, there’s not a ton of space to work with,” bowers said. “so my goal this year was to cover the main events that always happen, but also to try and find things that maybe might not seem so im­portant in the moment. but a year from now, five years from now, 10 years from now people are gonna look at that and say, ‘wow, that was pretty indicative of my notre dame experience.’ so we made room for covering when supreme court Justice sonia sotomayor came to cam­pus, but we also did it for … all the construction that was going on on campus.” 
bowers said she was conflict­ed on whether or not to include all the construction in the year­book this year. 
“my friends are like, ‘do you really want to put a whole page of construction in there?’ and i’m like, ‘Five years from now, we’re all going to remember how annoying it was that the parking was messed up, or that the stadium was so covered in scaffolding.’ That’s going to be important to us, we’re going to want to remember that,” she said. “so i guess, in my expe­rience i was trying so hard to make the yearbook relevant to students, to every single one of them in one way or another.” 
after graduation, bowers is headed to minneapolis in July to take up a position as a busi­ness management associate for general mills cereal. 

Mike Russo Spirit Award 
meredith Fraser received the mike russo spirit award, which honors a student who exempli­fies the qualities of “service, per­sonal character and striving to bring the best out of themselves and others,” according to the press release. 
during her time at notre dame, Fraser was heavily in­volved in her dorm, ryan hall, participating in service work and hall council and serving as president of the hall during the 2014-2015 school year. 
“This meant not only that a team of three other students, 25 plus commissioners and i led some programming in ryan hall, but also that i served on hall presidents council (hpc) with the leaders of all 28 other halls,” Fraser said in an email. “The next year, because of my belief in the importance of resi­dence life and after working with a driven team of leaders in ryan, i decided to run for co-chair of hall presidents council, where i continued my obsession with the notre dame residence halls in another capacity. 
Fraser said she was humbled to have been nominated and recognized by the division of student affairs. 
“i know from four years of ca­maraderie that every student at notre dame possesses exem­plary values, and this award reminded me how special this campus is to have students who also acknowledge those values in each other,” she said. 
in June, Fraser plans to move to columbus, ohio to spend three years working in market­ing for cardinal health. 
“The work i have done at notre dame, honored by the mike russo spirit award, will surely be of importance in my future,” Fraser said, “our system of resi­dence life involves caring for others. i tried to guide focus on ‘reeling in residents,’ especially those that might feel isolated on the outskirts of their hall community and uncomfortable jumping in. 

Blessed Basil Moreau, C.S.C., Leadership Award 
william harris received the blessed basil moreau, c.s.c., leadership award, which ac­cording to the press release is awarded to a student who “em­bodies blessed Father moreau’s vision of educating heart and mind as well as someone who has demonstrated significant effort to advancing the catholic character of the university.” 
while at notre dame, harris has been involved in the right to life club, as well as campus ministry. 
“my goal with the speech was to open people’s eyes and to challenge them to think about what it means for them to say they’re pro-life,” harris said, “i think it’s really easy to bubble it down to a few simple issues, but really what it comes down to for me is truly loving everyone, no matter what.” 
besides his involvement with campus ministry and the right to life club, harris counts his engineering degree as a factor in receiving the award, which he said focuses “on both sides of the story, on educating our whole self.” 
“They told me they were go­ing to nominate me, and that al­ready was enough, i was already so honored,” harris said. “... and then, when i found out i got the award, i was blown away. There are so many cool people at notre dame, how was i picked out of all these people? and at the awards banquet … it was really cool to hear about all of these people getting these awards, and things they’ve done, it’s cool to be counted amongst them.” 
after graduation, harris will work in the process engineering division of garmin ltd. in olathe, Kansas, manufacturing aviation products. 

Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., Award 
preston igwe received the rev. Theodore hesburgh, c.s.c., award, which honors a student “whose contributions have sig­nificantly advanced the climate of welcome and inclusion within or beyond the university com­munity,” according to the press release. 
during his time at notre dame, igwe was a part of several student cultural organizations, including the black student association, african student association, and the wabruda, for which he served as president during the past school year. igwe has also been a representative for the diversity council’s First class steppers since his sopho­more year. 
“This is very important to me because i know how tough it can be to be an underrepresented student at notre dame, and i worked to make sure that these students have just as rich and beautiful a notre dame expe­rience as everyone else gets to have,” igwe said. 
upon receiving the award, igwe said he was “in disbelief.” 
“i didn’t think that i’d ever win such a prestigious award,” he said. “i didn’t involve myself in so many activities for the recog­nition or awards, but it is an in­credible honor to be recognized as a leader who made significant strides to make notre dame a more welcoming and inclusive community.” 
after graduation, igwe said he will either return to his hometown of houston to work as a medical scribe, or go to baltimore to work with bon secours volunteer ministry. he plans to begin applying to medi­cal schools this summer, with hopes of enrolling fall of 2017. in the future he hopes to work as a physician in under-served communities. 
“i want to provide qual­ity medical care to communi­ties that have historically been separated from it.” igwe said, “i also want to address health disparities that plague minority communities, so that individu­als in these households can have longer and more prosperous lives.” 

John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award 
colleen mclinden received the John w. gardner student leadership award, which ac­cording to the press release is awarded to a student who “exemplifies the ideals of the university through outstanding community service beyond the university community.” 
Throughout her time at notre dame, mclinden has been heav­ily involved in advocacy work. 
last year, while study­ing abroad in santiago, chile, mclinden spent the final month of her semester abroad living in an intentional community, in which she and four other college students spent all of their time when not in class volunteering with a Jesuit service and out­reach organization. 
“it was maybe the best month i’ve ever spent during my time in college,” mclinden said. 
upon learning she had won the award, mclinden said she “was really surprised.” 
“i knew they put my name in, but there are a lot of people do­ing a lot of good things on this campus,” she said, “when they say all those things, i’m like, ‘oK, i guess i did a lot of stuff here,’ but there are a ton of people that are doing things like that and not getting recognized for it. i don’t feel like i deserved that, more than anybody else did, but it was nice.” 
after graduation, mclinden said she will be spending the summer working at a catholic summer camp in colorado. 
“service has been part of who i am here and even in high school, so i see service as being something that’s part of my life,” mclinden said. “living my life and figuring out who i am and incorporating service into that, that is what i want to do.” 

Ray Siegfried Award for Leadership Excellence 
alison o’connor received the ray siegfried award for leadership excellence, which is awarded to a student who exem­plifies “leadership, generosity, devotion to the catholic faith and affinity for athletics,” ac­cording to the press release. 
during her time at notre dame, o’connor served as pres­ident of the gluten Free club her sophomore year, a leprechaun legion board member her ju­nior and senior years, presi­dent of mcglinn hall her junior year and a resident assistant in mcglinn hall this year. 
“in terms of athletics, i re­ally enjoy playing on the inter-hall and co-rec teams through recsports,” o’connor said in an email. “i think i played on 20 plus teams this year alone. i def­initely played on every interhall sport the past two years. i also have been on the leprechaun legion board for the past two years, assisting with giveaways at sporting events. i mean who doesn’t like making some­one’s day by giving them a free t-shirt?” 
o’connor said she was sur­prised upon learning she had won the award. 
“i knew i was being nomi­nated, but i didn’t think i would have a shot at actually winning,” she said. 
after graduation, o’connor will go to st. dominic savio catholic high school in austin, Texas, where she will be teach­ing chemistry and ap physics as part of the alliance for catholic education program. 


Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Award 
maggie skoch received the rev. a. leonard collins, c.s.c., award, which according to the press release is awarded to a stu­dent who has “made substantial personal efforts to advance the interests of students at notre dame.” 
after struggles with mental ill­ness caused skoch to leave notre dame for a year, skoch said she came back to campus wanting “to get involved to improve ser­vices and policies for students.” 
“when i came back in 2013, i was lucky enough to provide feedback to different admin­istrators about the withdrawal and readmission process,” skoch said. “Through that, i started to build relationships with dif­ferent people in student affairs, different administrators, and to learn a lot about the structure of policies and just the way things work, the logistics, the culture and the community.” 
skoch went on to become involved with notre dame’s chapter of the national alliance on mental illness (nami-nd) during the 2013-2014 school year, and was elected nami­nd’s president for the 2014-2015 school year. 
“i really sought to grow the group, and we ended up tripling our membership that year,” skoch said. 
receiving the award was “a big surprise” to skoch. 
“it’s certainly an honor, it’s a gift to receive an award such as this, and to know that the work that i’ve done is important and recognized and has made a dif­ference,” she said. “That’s been the best part of it all — award or not, knowing that things have improved and changed for the better, and that people’s lives are better for it.” 
after graduation, skoch said she will be working at notre dame for the summer, both as music director for notre dame’s vision program, and as an intern for dr. stackman. afterwards, skoch is headed to loyola university chicago’s stritch school of medicine to pursue a medical degree. 

Contact Andrea Vale at  avale@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 




college recognizes seniors for service, engagement 
By NICOLE CARATAS, MARTHA REILLY and KATHRYN MARSHALL 
saint mary’s editor, associate saint mary’s editor and news writer 
Four saint mary’s seniors were honored with c.s.c. awards for service in different disci­plines. These awards are given by the office of civic and social engagement (ocse) to students who are dedicated to community-based learning and volunteering. 
senior biology major sarah lucas received the sister maria concepta mcdermott, c.s.c. award for service in education. 
lucas said she began volun­teering at the early childhood development center (ecdc) her freshman year because she want­ed to take a break from academics and work with kids. 
“i love children, so i thought it would be a great way to spend some time and give back,” lucas said. “it’s kind of like a stress-relief on top of everything else.” 
Kari alford, program director of the ecdc, said she nominated lucas for this award because of her ongoing commitment to help­ing children. 
“she’s given freely of her time for so many semesters,” alford said. “when i think of service, i truly think of the volunteering and con­sistency that we see from sarah.” 
saint mary’s promotes an at­titude of service that encourages students to sacrifice their time and help others, lucas said. 
“at the college level, people are trying to figure out what they’re going to do,” lucas said. “by giv­ing back and just being part of the community, it really helps you fo­cus on what’s important and find what you’re passionate about.” 
senior nursing major anna cronin received the sister olivia marie hutcheson, c.s.c. award for service in the health Field. cronin is the vice president of the student nurse association on campus, she said. 
associate professors for nursing science annette peacock-Johnson and patricia Keresztes nominated cronin for the award. both are members of the nursing depart­ment’s student/Faculty affairs committee, and cronin stood out after the committee reviewed the extracurricular, leadership and service activities of the senior nursing students, Johnson said. 
“anna rose to the top of the list because of her multiple and varied service activities, which all related to health care,” Johnson said. “she consistently engaged in health­care service activities throughout her four years at saint mary’s and these activities were not only on campus, but in her home commu­nity, as well as her global service experience in uganda.” 
she spent six weeks of the sum­mer after junior year staying with the sisters of the holy cross and working at a clinic in uganda, she said, and would love to go back one day. 
“i didn’t really think of it as service,” she said. “my parents instilled in me at a young age that service is a responsibility. everyone should do some kind of service. i thought of it as some­thing i wanted to do — i wanted to help.” 
cronin admires the spirit of service in her fellow nursing class­mates, and loves working with people who have a desire to use their craft to help others, she said. 
“i would not be the kind of nurse i am without saint mary’s,” cronin said. “going through clinicals and this small of a nursing program, where you have the individualized attention and you can ask your professors anything, is great. They know you by name, they know what you’re capable of and they’re not afraid to push you.” 
senior eleanor Jones, a global studies major with concentrations in international development, and gender and women’s studies, re­ceived the sister olivette whalen, 
c.s.c. award for general service. 
professors of modern languages and intercultural studies Julie storme and mana derakhshani nominated Jones for the award. 
“she’s a remarkable young women in many ways,” storme said. “her level of social justice is so deep and broad.” 
one reason behind the nomina­tion is Jones’ involvement with the Food recovery program, storme said. 
“we take the leftover food from the dining hall every monday and wednesday evening and we drive it over to the center for the homeless,” storme said. “we’ve done that for two years and we’ve had over 5,000 pounds [of food] saved.” 
Through the program, Jones has expanded the circle of social justice at saint mary’s by linking sustainability to human dignity, storme said. 
“she’s managed to create enough commitment to the pro­gram that it will outlast her,” storme said. “eleanor created something that wasn’t being done, and, through sheer grit, made sure it happened by individual action.” 
derakshani said she was im­pressed with the way Jones lives her life according to her convictions. 
“sustainability and care for the earth is one of the missions that the sisters of the holy cross have taken up as a contemporary issue, so it is fitting that eleanor receive an award named after a sister,” she said. 
Jones said she was surprised and excited to receive the award, since she sees herself as surrounded by many people who do great service work at saint mary’s. another so­cial justice initiative of Jones’s was inspired by an experience with susi (study of the united states institute), which hosts women from the middle east and north africa for five weeks, she said. 
“Two years ago, the Jordanian team won the idea for shecab, which is a taxi company that will be female drivers for female pas­sengers,” she said. “so i got to go to Jordan last year, and when i came back with my friend emily, we de­cided to start a fundraiser for the company.” 
by selling “blinkie’s belles” t-shirts and hosting events such as yoga on the le mans lawn, the fundraiser raised over $2,000, she said. 
emily milnamow, who is a com­munications major, received the patricia arch green award. This is awarded to a student who has taken on a leadership role. 
samira payne, assistant di­rector for the ocse, nominated milnamow because of the work she has done with the college academy of Tutoring program (caT) — a program that goes into local Title 1 schools and provides tutors and teacher assistants to students. 
in her nomination statement, payne said milnamow has taken on a leadership role by putting in extra time with the caT program during her senior year. 
“her calm and quiet leadership style has earned the respect of her peers, and even more impressive­ly, the respect of 26 middle school students at navarre intermediate center,” payne said. “she has de­voted many hours to planning and preparing for tutoring, and is always willing to jump in when needed. her passion and com­mitment is evident in all her work with the caT program.” 
receiving this award helped milnamow realize her passions, she said. 
“what i love doing is what i’m good at, and other people see that, too,” she said. “This is what i love doing, and i would love it if this could be my job some day. it’s re­ally cool that i was able to get [this award] and it’s affirmation that i’m on the right path.” 
milnamow said her time at saint mary’s helped shape her into a leader. 
“The fact that saint mary’s is so dedicated to going out into the community and helping the com­munity has really made the caT program what it is,” she said. “it’s given me the confidence to be able to lead, whereas before i would have been more of a follower. … i think that through my major — which is a lot about connecting with people and learning how to be an interpersonal leader — a lot of that has helped me figure out how to lead in a way that people actually listen rather than just be­ing a boss.” 
Contact Nicole Caratas at ncaratas01@saintmarys.edu, Martha Reilly at  mreilly01@saintmarys.edu and Kathryn Marshall at kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



SMC professor to graduate with class of 2016 
By STEPHANIE SNYDER 
news writer 
after teaching for 29 years and taking classes for 12 years — one course every fall and spring se­mester, in addition to one summer course — patti sayre, professor of philosophy, achieved a 4.0 gpa and will receive a bachelor of Fine arts (bFa) degree during the 2016 commencement ceremony. 
“i got my ph.d. the last year that [Fr.] hesburgh was president at notre dame,” sayre said. “i rather like the idea that i’m getting my bFa in carol mooney’s last year.” 
sayre said her passion for art began at a young age. 
“people would ask me if i want­ed to be an artist when i was in third grade,” sayre said, “i got this idea i would be an artist.” 
however, in her junior year of high school, philosophy pulled her in another direction, she said. 
“my art didn’t seem to be going anywhere at that time,” she said, “i switched my sense of where i was going to be.” 
after earning her undergraduate degree from wheaton college in illinois and her ph.d. from notre dame, sayre decided to pursue a career at saint mary’s. 
sayre said saint mary’s was, by far, the best fit for her. 
“i’m not sure every women’s college is like this one,” she said. “i think this one has got some­thing that others don’t.” 
years after she began teach­ing, one of sayre’s colleagues took drawing i and inspired her to do the same, she said. 
“i thought that’s really won­derful,” she said. “if you work at saint mary’s at any capacity, you can take one course for free each semester. 
“i was just going to take that one course, but then it was so good, i thought i would take drawing ii as well,” she said. “i just decided i’m really enjoying this, and i’ll just keep going.” 
according to sayre, art ma­jors must undergo reviews at the end of each semester where they present their work to faculty for critiquing. however, students taking an art class who are not majoring in art do not have to go through the review. 
“i thought, ‘of course i’m not going to do this,’” she said, “and then i thought, ‘well, what if i de­cided i did want to get a degree?’ so the night before, i decided, ‘i’m going to do something.’” 
sayre said the reviews provide purpose for the classes. 
“it just makes what you’re do­ing seem more real,” she said. “like it’s not just going to end up in a closet — it’s going to hang on the wall, even if it is only for 24 hours.” 
according to sayre, she could not have earned her degree with­out the aid of other students and faculty. 
“They held my hand a lot more than other people’s hands,” she said. “They were looking after me when i was on a point of collapse, because i had just never done this before. ... given where i knew i was when i started and given where i am now, it really does seem like [the program] works. it turns you into someone who has an actual artistic style, focus and goals.” 
she said the transformation was easier for her to see due to the extended period of time she was taking classes. 
“everyone else has to have this magical transformation happen in four years,” she said. “i don’t know if while it’s happening they’re quite aware of it, but i’ve seen it happen in others.” 
although sayre is graduating with a 4.0 gpa, she was not of­fered the status of valedictorian due to a rule that states students must have taken a certain num­ber of credits at saint mary’s to be considered for the position. 
“i transferred in so much from graduate school and my first un­dergraduate degree, i believe i was just short,” she said. “besides, i think it’s more important that the valedictorian speech come from someone who is not in this weird position i’m in.” 
even without the valedictorian status, sayre said she is proud of her accomplishment. 
“i tell my students all the time that grades don’t matter, but i’m still a little bit proud of it.” she said. “i got more out of myself than i thought was in there. it represents how i pushed myself.” 
as of now, sayre does not think she will pursue a career in art, but would like to continue with her work and hopes to eventually have it showcased. 
“i want very badly to keep go­ing somehow, but i’m not going to jump ship here and try and go start a new career at this point,” she said. “i like the idea that my art is being seen rather than just having it sit in the closet.” 
sayre is done with her days of taking saint mary’s classes for credit, she said. however, she still thinks she will sit in on classes both in and out of the art department. 
“i’m going to miss being a stu­dent alongside students,” she said. “i liked feeling that camara­derie and feeling that i was one of the students and not just a faculty member.” 


Contact Stephanie Snyder at ssnyder02@saintmarys.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 




SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 



Leaving a legacy 
Greg Hadley 
editor-in-chief emeritus 
when i was little, i knew where i was going to college: notre dame. 
and this sunday, sure enough, i’m going to graduate from this university. 
it’s strange to realize my life has unfolded almost exactly as eight-year-old me envisioned, minus playing center field for the baltimore orioles. and i’m not just talking about notre dame. 
really, most of my life to this point has seemed preor­dained. i knew where i would go to middle school, high school, college. i played the same sports and read the same books my family members did, went on vacations to the same spots with the same people. 
when you’re the ninth of 10 children, there’s not much you can do that your siblings haven’t already done. when you’re the sixth kid in your family to attend notre dame, there’s not much that’s going to surprise you. 
To some people, that might sound sad. some people might think my family crushed my individuality. 
To me, there’s a more complicated truth at work. 
i always knew i wanted to go to notre dame. but for a long time, i never considered why. it was just the way things were supposed to be. i was a hadley, and there­fore i belonged in south bend. 
but now, finally, i know why i’ve always felt a connec­tion to this place. 
at notre dame, we place a tremendous amount of importance on tradition. every year, we do the same things over and over, because that’s what we’ve always done. 
it’s not a perfect system — sometimes tradition stifles us from growing — but all the traditions we have build upon each other towards something greater: a legacy. 
That legacy is what ties the notre dame community together. That legacy is more than football games or dorm masses. That legacy is the impact notre dame has upon the world. That legacy leaves an indelible mark. 
when i was little, i sensed that many of my siblings had this mark. i idolized my older brothers and sisters, and so naturally, i wanted that mark too. 
what i didn’t know was that how i carried that mark was up to me. notre dame’s legacy is not a static thing. each new class of students builds upon it. within each class, each student takes part in it in a different way. and though many of my siblings and i share in this legacy, we each experienced it in far different ways. 
at the end of my sophomore year, i realized i suffer from dysthymia, a persistent low-level form of depres­sion. it had gotten worse ever since i came to college, and i think the reason for that was because part of me expected my notre dame experience to be the same as my siblings and was disappointed when it wasn’t. 
That part of me was eight years old and saw every­thing in binary terms. he didn’t realize it was oK to be different from his siblings, to become his own person. To be different was to not belong. 
i don’t think that way anymore. each one of my sib­lings has varied interests, passions and ideas, and we each have chosen different paths in life. but at the cen­ter of it all is a bond, one in which notre dame plays an integral part. 
my life was never preordained, of course. but i have taken part in a legacy. it’s left a mark i’ll always carry with me, and i’ve added to it and made it my own. it’s a legacy i took up, and it’s a legacy i leave behind. 
Greg Hadley is graduating with a degree in political science and a minor in journalism, ethics and democracy. If you wish to send job offers or fruit snacks his way, email Greg at gghadley@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Wei Lin 
assistant managing editor emeritus 
when Facebook first introduced its on This day feature, i cringed a little. do i really want to see what the high school version of me posts? do i want to see the pictures contain­ing my highlighted hair, awkward smiles, and questionable fashion sense? can i resist feeling the waves of embarrass­ment when i realize that younger wei thought adding a space before his punctuation marks was cool? 
even with all these regrettable posts, i decided to go on ahead and look back in time. and goodness, it was really bad. however, at the same time, i also got to see posts from my first three years at notre dame. i definitely sensed improvements, and rather than cringe, i felt nostalgic. 
as i began to check on This day more frequently, i be­gan to see pictures of old friends at social gatherings. i saw pictures of my friends and i finishing the holy half. i found pictures of my choir friends when we were touring France. 
eventually, i gave Facebook permission to remind me to check on This day daily. it became part of my morn­ing routine. it allows me to look back at my old self, the things i used to do and the people i used to hang out with. sometimes, i’m disappointed that i no longer interact with these people as often, but at the same time, i realize that it’s normal. life is in a constant state of flux, and hanging out with different social groups is just part of it. 
but that is not to deny the impact these people have made in my life and college career. whether i consciously am aware or not, every single person i’ve interacted with has shaped me in some way. some have become my closest friends, some have taught me to be a better student, some have inspired me to pursue a hobby, some have furthered my faith, and some have made me question my beliefs. i couldn’t imagine what notre dame would be like without the people i’ve met during my time here. 
like every graduating senior, the saddest thing about notre dame is how the school brings together so many brilliant and extraordinary people. we make all of these wonderful friends, but after four years, we are dispersed throughout nation, as well as the world, to make a dif­ference and pursue our lofty goals. we will get there, we will do many wonderful things in our lives, but we will never be able to turn back time and relive our four years here. however, we can revisit these moments by looking through old Facebook posts, sharing stories of our experi­ences with the new friends we meet and, best of all, keep in contact with those who have shaped our lives. 
To those people whom i’ve met along this four-year journey, thank you for creating memories with me. i will continue to browse on This day and relive each moment over and over again. These past four years have been the greatest in my life so far. i can’t wait to celebrate all of our achievements this sunday. we’ve fought long and hard, and all great things must come to an end. but at least it won’t be forgotten. in a year, we’ll look back “on this day.” 
love thee, notre dame. 
Wei Lin is graduating with a bachelor’s degree in  business administration having majored in  accountancy, economics and Chinese. He will continue to geek out when he starts his new job as a forensic  consultant at PwC. Wei will be studying for the CPA exams this summer, but he welcomes anyone to contact him through his email at wei.lin.nd@gmail.com or visit him in New York City, even though he not-so-secretly lives in New Jersey. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Unplanned 


Catherine Owers 
associate news editor emeritus 
The best things in my life have been unplanned. They haven’t all been accidents, but rather decisions where i didn’t realize the ramifications until well after i had made the choice — or didn’t make the choice at all. 
This is somewhat of a startling realization for a wom­an who considers herself to be a master planner: i have a practice of endlessly overanalyzing small decisions; yet somehow, my nascent tendency to go with my gut manifests itself on only the biggest life decisions. 
when choosing colleges, i committed to notre dame without visiting any other university or, to be honest, seriously considering any other college. my visits to campus weren’t perfect experiences; they were charac­terized by delayed flights and several feet of snow and attending my sister’s biology classes — not the most engaging for the girl who very much knew she had to be an english major. but the sense of community i felt hanging out in walsh, studying in the library and eating in south dining hall appealed to me a very fundamen­tal level. so notre dame it was, with little debate. 
Five years later, i can’t imagine not knowing the uniquely phenomenal group of people i’ve met here at notre dame. and the two most meaningful experiences of my time at notre dame — working for The observer and studying abroad — have also been unplanned. 
i didn’t attend my first observer news department meeting because my four-year plan for college involved a deep commitment to the student newspaper on the way to a journalism career full of pulitzer prizes. i attended my first observer news department meet­ing because of a vague freshman interest in writing, coupled with some very strong encouragement from my sister’s roommate, Tori roeck, who also wrote news. so i rushed delta news and let “what would Tori roeck do?” govern more than a few of my decisions as associate news editor. 
These past four years of writing about issues con­cerning our campus community has been extremely fulfilling work. being part of the delta news team has made me a better writer and made me acutely aware of the vague ap style guidelines for papal encyclicals. more importantly, being part of the delta news team has given me invaluable friendships and made me a better person. 
i didn’t have firm plans to study abroad at the begin­ning of my notre dame career, but i thought it sounded like an interesting experience. so i applied only for the dublin program, only for the spring semester, and i thought if i wasn’t selected for this program and se­mester, i wouldn’t be missing out on much. of course, i know now that i would have had a fantastic experience at any program, any semester. 
but i did study in dublin last spring, and now i can’t imagine not riding the 39a, getting rained on for three hours at easter mass in rome or negotiating with italian taxi drivers — all with some of the very best people in the world. studying abroad wasn’t always easy, but it forced me to develop more than a little self-confidence and gave me an enormous amount of self-awareness. 
when i look back on my senior year at notre dame, the times that i’ll look back on most fondly aren’t the traditional “lasts,” like our last football game or last day of class. while those were fun, the unplanned times are the ones i’m holding on to — the spontaneous, late-night life talks and spur-of-the-moment decisions to stop studying and watch the sun set. 
looking to the future, i’ve got several maps and a lot of ambiguity at hand. and while this uncertainty does terrify me, i’ve come to realize the best experiences are the ones that are unplanned. 
Catherine Owers is graduating with a degree in English and theology. After graduation, she’ll continue to work her way through the canon of classic detective fiction, while eagerly awaiting Tana French’s next novel. Please send reading recommendations and thoughts on correct AP Style for “Laudato Si’” to  owers.catherine@gmail.com
   The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
One true home 

Tabitha Ricketts 
viewpoint editor emeritus 
several times over the past few weeks, people have posed the question, “why did you choose notre dame?” The truth is, i didn’t. at least not directly. 
i can recall the excitement and pride i felt over five years ago when i learned i was accepted to my top-choice school — the only one to which i applied — and that i would be coming to south bend to study. i was not headed for the gilded campus of notre dame, but for the dome-shad­owed place across the street. That’s right: saint mary’s. 
There were many reasons why i chose saint mary’s. i was 15. as an all-women’s catholic col­lege, it presented a supportive environment for me to make my fledging flight. i’m not going to lie; the proximity to notre dame and its golden opportunities was certainly a draw as well. in fact, it was the 4-1 engineering program that cinched the deal for me. but i never understood how, in others’ eyes, saint mary’s offerings were diminished by comparison. 
i was told from the start that the relationship between notre dame and saint mary’s was rocky. alumni from both campuses filled me in on the slurs they had learned, and it was a main topic of warning pre-domerfest for the smc first years. my experience at both schools has been peppered with stories of discrimination and discord be­tween the two: students perpetuating terms like “the sluttle” to describe the intercampus bus; students decrying the intelligence or worth of others based on the institution they attend; even taxi drivers who would refuse to take saint mary’s students the extra minute to our campus, and certainly never before dropping off any other pas­sengers at main circle. 

The strongest example came out of the bcs national championship ticket controversy. a sparse 2,500 tickets were made available for stu­dents, at a price discounted by 50 percent thanks to a generous donor. saint mary’s students were allowed to participate in the student ticket lot­tery. The response from a very vocal part of the notre dame student body could best be classified as ungenerous, though framed as righteous pro­test — even the observer article, “championship ticket tension,” from december 4, 2012, only heard notre dame students’ reactions. 
That tension reverberated like an earthquake along the fault line of the notre dame-saint mary’s connection, and many students on the belle side of the street were left wondering where we stood, or whether we mattered at all in the hearts and minds of those we considered our brothers and sisters. That was, incidentally, my first experience with hate mail — i received a personal attack to my inbox after attempting to present a reasonable argument, at least as much as anyone is able to via internet comments. and i know i was not the only one to be intimately disparaged — to be tracked down, sought out and called stupid, along with much worse — for my educational choice. 
i’ve taken classes — i’ve earned degrees — at both schools. The subjects i took at notre dame were harder, but the classes at saint mary’s were more challenging. There’s no ducking out of a discussion or hiding on your phone in the back of a classroom when the class is 12 people and the professor gathered in a circle to discuss the reading. when it comes time to present your se­nior comprehensive project, you’d better not have checked out with a case of senioritis, because the entire department is likely to show up in support. 
what notre dame offered me was something bigger, but what saint mary’s offered was some­thing more intense. They are both special. They are both wonderful. They are both different, cer­tainly, but most importantly, they are both wor­thy of respect. 
i don’t mean to disparage notre dame. i’m go­ing to stand proudly in that stadium with the rest of my class, cheer with them and celebrate what we’ve achieved. heck, maybe i’ll even get a little misty-eyed the next time i sing the alma mater. but as much as i’ll miss this place, there’s a part of me that is relieved to be going. 
it’s the part that was never fully able to ig­nore the looks i received wearing saint mary’s logos on the notre dame campus — “she’s just here for the boys.” it’s the part that felt wearing my saint mary’s ring in my notre dame classes was making a statement, a small gesture of defi­ance against the stereotypes — “she’s not smart enough to go here.” it’s the part of me that’s torn between pride and justification when explain­ing that i am not a saint mary’s student anymore, that i graduated actually, but yes, i’m also a notre dame transfer student — “she’s only going there because she couldn’t get into notre dame; she’ll just transfer over in a year or two anyway.” 
i’ve had an amazing experience at saint mary’s and notre dame, so intertwined i couldn’t sepa­rate them out. i would not be the person i am without the opportunities the schools have pro­vided me, in tandem. while i’ll speak of both places with equal measures of pride and famil­iarity, when i say my last farewell this spring i’m leaving behind only one true home. 
Tabitha Ricketts is graduating with a degree in  computer science and a concentration in cybersecurity. She is moving to Washington, D.C., to be a consultant, which is fancy-speak for “pay me and I’ll write code for you.” She welcomes applications for friendship  at tricketts@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Find joy in change 

Jack Rooney 
managing editor emeritus 
a lot can change in four years. 
when i first arrived at notre dame four years ago, my dad, like many other fathers, helped me move into my new dorm. he carried boxes, lofted beds and sweated along with the rest of the class of 2016 and their parents as we began our time at notre dame on a sunny august Friday. 
when my dad comes for graduation this week­end, he will be in a power wheelchair, completely dependent upon others to move, communicate and live. 
in march of 2014, sophomore year, he was diag­nosed with als. a lot can change in four years. 
since his diagnosis, my time at notre dame has been set against the backdrop of his illness, the timeline of his deterioration. when i returned to campus for junior year, he could still walk with some assistance. when i came home for fall break, he was in a wheelchair. when i left to study abroad, he could still swallow solid food. when i returned, he took all his meals through a feeding tube. a few days after we lost to clemson, he went into the hospital with pneumonia and hasn’t re­ally been able to speak or sit up for long periods since. a lot can change in four years. 
i’ve changed a lot these past four years, too. my dad’s unfortunate and untimely confrontation with mortality has forced me to deeply examine who and what i hold close — family, friends, plac­es, experiences. Trying to balance a full college life and time with my dad while he is still with us has presented me with choices that have caused me to grow up quickly and separate what’s actu­ally important from the things that only seem so. 

and with graduation upon us, life is about to change again. we’re all about to leave the place that has become a home for us, and the people who have become family. many of us are moving to new places, new homes with new people who we can only hope end up as special to us as the people we found here. 
i’m about to leave my home for at least the next year and a half — a summer interning in Florida followed by a year working in ireland. and i still need to come to terms with the knowledge that the next time i come home will be for my dad’s wake and funeral. 
These are all terrifying thoughts. but if these past four years — through my notre dame experi­ence, my travels, my dad’s disease — have taught me anything, it’s that we can handle it. no mat­ter what cross we bear — a move to an unfamiliar place, an uncertain career path, a dying father — we’ll make it work. no one’s suffering is easier or harder than another’s. it is just our own. 
and despite what challenges may lie ahead, i also believe our shared notre dame experience has left us uniquely equipped to thrive wher­ever we go and in whatever we do. with a strong sense of human solidarity and keen concern for the common good instilled in us, it is time for our notre dame education to become service to justice. 
perhaps this is all youthful naivety, but the world has yet to give me a reason to be cynical. because after four years of hard work, late nights in the library or the newsroom, successes, failures and memories, i still know that a lot can change in the next four years, too. 
when he was first diagnosed, my dad promised himself and my family that his disease would not define him. in the face of tremendous personal suffering, he would remain the same father, hus­band, brother, and friend he has always been. he has struggled with this promise, as has my entire family. it’s hard not to let something as devastat­ing as als change you. 
at times, i have seen my family’s situation bring sadness and frustration, but it has not robbed us of a deeper sense of joy. This joy is a profound con­viction that throughout the triumphs and travails we encounter, we are living a good life. 
This joy permeates my family, and it is the same joy i hope all of you — my notre dame family — feel as we forge our paths forward. Things will change, as they always do, but if we remain rooted in the joy we have found here, i have no doubt the notre dame class of 2016 can create our own change. after all, a lot can change in four years. and we can change even more after four years at notre dame. 
Jack Rooney is graduating with a degree in  political science and American studies with a minor in journalism, ethics & democracy. He’ll continue his  journalism career as a summer intern for the Tampa Bay Times before spending a year working for Notre Dame in Ireland. He welcomes visitors in both  locations, just email him at jcrooney2@gmail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Thank you, Pangborn 

Mary Green 
assistant managing editor emeritus 
almost four years ago, i opened an email link that heavily shaped my notre dame experience, probably more than anything else during my time here. 
it was Fourth of July weekend, aKa the time each year when incoming freshmen find out their dorm assignments, and i was nervous as i clicked the button that would let me know where i would rest my head for (almost) every night of the next eight semesters. 
it said, “pa-240 b.” 
having no idea what dorm “pa” was supposed to be, i broke into a bit of a sweat as my mind immediately thought of the pasquerillas — nothing against those halls, but i knew i was going to major in FTT, and pe and pw just seemed so far away from dpac. 
but when i looked at the list of hall names and ab­breviations, listed next to “pa” was “pangborn.” 
pangborn — huh? 
To be completely honest, i had never heard of that dorm, and during my visit to campus just three months before, i had probably walked by it and not even noticed the beautiful, aesthetically pleasing cin­derblock palace that was to become my home at notre dame. 
while pangborn, aKa pang, aKa the pang, aKa pangborn hall for girls, aKa the phoxiest dorm on campus, didn’t immediately strike me with its beauty, i came to realize the value of its more underrated qualities — mainly its location on the corner of south Quad, but also its ridiculous amount of storage space, the horizontal configuration of its rooms and the two stone lions that guard its entrance. 

but even more than that, it’s the people who have made pangborn so great during my four years. 
during our first trip to the grotto, the Frosh-o staff told us freshmen stories of the first time pangborn and notre dame felt like home to them, but i already felt like i was home and had a family in this group of women. They acknowledged that our hall wasn’t the best building on campus, but it housed the best peo­ple, women who make up some of the most wonderful people i have gotten to know not only in my time on campus but in my entire life. 
as i sat down to write this column, i realized that, along with this being my final piece published in The observer (unless i become a cranky alum columnist), this is also the final paper printed during pangborn’s time as a residence hall and a community. with that, i’d like to take this time to thank all the pangborn women who have made my time so incredible and phoxy. 
our word limit for this column doesn’t allow me to individually thank each person of the seven classes who have lived in pangborn during my time, but i thank all of you as a group. i couldn’t have asked for anything more from a community. 
pangborn has been where i’ve laughed, i’ve cried, i’ve cartwheeled down the hallways and i’ve yelled out way too many pangsta raps. it’s where i made some of the best friends of my life and met people who have been there for me through all the good times and all the not-so-good times. 
it’s a place that i always show visiting family, along­side campus hotspots like main building, the basilica, the grotto, the stadium and Touchdown Jesus. 
it’s where i’ve written countless papers and observer stories, read countless pages, watched countless mov­ies and made countless memories. it’s the greatest of all notre dame dorms, and it’s exactly what i’ve need­ed in my time here. 
it’s the reason i’ve been to harmonia concerts, wom­en’s lacrosse games, tennis matches, cross country and swim meets and amish acres. it’s the reason why i’ve fought in baraka bouts, participated in science experiments and printed T-shirts with my friend’s face on them. it’s the reason i wanted to become an ra and have been honored to serve as one the past year (spe­cial shoutout to all the residents of 2b). i’d like to think it’s the reason The observer’s readership has gone up by at least a few people the last four years. 
most of all, it’s the reason why notre dame is such a special place for me and many other women. 
it’s a place i know i’ll miss when i return to campus, but it’s one i know has brought way too many people together for it to ever truly be gone. 
Thank you, pangborn, sr. mary donnelly and every pangsta out there. stay phoxy always. 
Mary Green is a film, television and theatre and English major with a journalism, ethics and democracy minor. She will fulfill her TV major and journalism minor by pursuing careers in broadcast journalism, but will inevitably read enough books and articles to continue her learning in English. If you want to contact her, look for her on the local TV stations of America’s smallest markets, or just email her at maryegreen15@gmail.com 
The views expressed in the this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Little piece of Notre Dame 

Erin Rice 
graphics editor emeritus 
graduating seniors, have you ever read through a list of “things to do before you graduate”? i’m sure many of us just recently reviewed that list and with a stroke of panic realized you may have to fail one of your finals to give yourself another year to check them all off the list. 
a year ago i decided to stay a fifth year to pick up another major. with a whirlwind of seemingly lasting relief that i have an additional year to do everything i wanted to, here i sit completely paralyzed by the fact that “we” are graduating. “we” have had our last foot­ball game, last winter break, last class, last final exam and we’re entering into our last summer, for those who don’t start work right away. 
as much as i try, i can’t avoid the “we,” us, this community, friends, peers and mentors. The fact that i’m staying an additional year will never make up for the fact that the real experience and community is made up of all of you, us. notre dame has created an irreplaceable environment for us to learn, grow and make memories these past four years, making this home. For some of us it’s the dome, the grotto, our freshman year dorm, the library, maybe it’s Taco bell in the basement of laFortune, or the path around the lakes — we all find a piece of ourselves attached to this place, and that’s why it seems so hard to let go. 
well, everyone, i’m staying another year. i’ll have the dome, unlimited nacho cheese doritos locos Tacos or a cute mini pizza from pizza hut, the lakes to wander around at sunset, the basilica for morning mass. i’ll have notre dame at my fingertips, but the largest piece of me isn’t attached to here, it’s attached to you. 

while you all are quickly approaching the one way door to “adulthood,” a little piece of me is going with you, and a little piece of you is staying here. i want to challenge everyone to put aside the list titled “things to do before i graduate” and start a new one, “things i did before i graduated.” it will be impossible to avoid reference to your friends, peers, mentors, professors, faculty and neighbors. The idea of these people being outside our closest reach is scary, but it can be excit­ing. There’s an undeniable passion and spirit that sits in each one of us. whether the passion is for writing, singing, math, medicine, running, art or engineering, we all share something that we will carry with us for the rest of our lives. 
while this may seem like the end of the best four years of our lives, as many people have said before, this is truly just the beginning. That obnoxious notre dame connection that everyone talks about works in more ways than job networking. when your notre dame sweatshirt draws the attention of an alum in the airport, like many of us probably have experi­enced before, the simple act of knowing that “they have been there too, they know what it’s like” brings comfort, confidence and the feeling of home. you may not even know their name or what they have been doing the past 15 years since they graduated, but that clearly doesn’t matter. That same piece of notre dame that exists in them, also exists in you, and will forever. 
we are all so blessed to have been here and we are a blessing to all of the people we meet in the future. That connection you’ve built in the notre dame-saint mary’s community over the past four years isn’t coming to an end, it’s now an extension to every new adventure, person or experience you encounter. so whether you know where you’ll be, or have no plans for next year, the biggest adventure of your life has just begun. while all of this has been said many times before, i am proud of all of us for everything we have accomplished, and all that we have yet to achieve. so next time you worry about the things you haven’t done, stop yourself and smile about all that you have done. smile because you know all of your closest friends from school are out there, probably doing something awesome. Keep them a priority, and come back to notre dame when you can to revisit that piece of you that’ll always be here. 
Erin Rice is a senior and will be staying a fifth year to get a dual degree for her bachelor of fine arts (BFA) in graphic and industrial design. She’s almost as excited to have another year at Notre Dame as she is about dogs and ice cream. Contact her with any questions regarding the above (especially dogs or studying abroad in London) at erice4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
Becoming my own man 

Miko Malabute 
scene editor emeritus 
i’m obviously not exactly a stud athlete, but i have a bit of a confession to make — when i play pick-up basketball, i’m not exactly the most con­fident player on the court. even when i’m playing well, i don’t always start off with oozing amounts of swagger and belief that i’m going to make every shot i take. 
so here’s what i do: i start off by passing the ball to my teammates. driving and dishing, setting them up so they can knock down the open jump shots. Then they get more and more confident, and with their growing confidence i’m able to really settle into the game. now i’m getting more confi­dent by their own confidence — call it osmosis or something — and i can finally play my own game. 
it’s a lot easier when i approach the game that way. when i try to force the issue myself, i get so in my own head and i start critiquing my every flaw. but seeing other people — my peers, friends, etc. — flourishing gives me the confidence and determination to elevate my own game. when i first got to notre dame, i tried to force the issue. before i even stepped onto campus, i had a nice pep talk with my mom. she told me she had con­fidence in me because i reminded her of a chame­leon — not the most endearing of comparisons, but she explained it was because i could fit right in anywhere. 
but at first, i didn’t want to fit right in, i wanted to be the man. i forced the issue. and i tangibly 

Lesley Stevenson 
assistant managing editor emeritus 
as my time at notre dame comes to a close, i feel it incumbent to give to you, my friends, family and mentors, my last will and testament. 
i, lesley stevenson, of over-zealous mind and undying school spirit, leave the following: 
To my fellow 2016 graduates: nothing but my eternal love and support. most of you are leaving this city, so i cannot leave you anything else but this and well-wishes for your undoubtedly pros­perous future. 
To Jim collins: york mints, “moulin rouge!”, money for future students to do research at theme parks and a 110-page thesis representing the best of what you taught me. 
To FTT professors and staff (particularly stacey stewart, Jo ann norris, mary Kearney, carys Kresny, additional thesis advisors): 17 thesis writ­ers next year, my blog that crashed, all the social media and the pictures i shouldn’t have from “The Tonight show,” my “pride and prejudice” costume, in addition to eternal love and gratitude. 
To carys and anton: my fears. you taught me how to (try to) be an actor and helped me break out of a shell i had built, so i leave these fears behind. 
To glynn: more K-cups. i’m sorry for the ones i stole. 
also, the senior trip to chicago, travel coffee mugs, breads, bagels and pastries and future grant writers who want to go to theme parks. and espe­cially to paul weithman, the never-ending draft of my thesis. 
To amsT: someone else to argue that harry potter is an american subject, every pop culture class offered, several new freshmen and many, many tweets. 
To emily okwara and roísín goebelbecker: american studies and a pemco legacy to uphold. 

struggled with trying to stand out amongst my peers. so i finally stopped trying to act like i was trying to be something, and just sat back and tried to figure out how my peers fared. and as i saw them succeed and grow into their own, i got the confidence to grow into my own — to be my own person. 
my brother told me before i got to notre dame to trust a man who is good and honest with you. i’ve been blessed to have met some of the best, most honest and most trustworthy people. like any good team, at my time of need, i faltered, i leaned on my peers to bring me back on my feet. my father passed away early in my sophomore year, and it truly brought me to one of my lowest — and what felt like one of the longest — points of my life. but the notre dame community brought me back on my feet. They allowed me to get through it, both on my own and as a second family. The amount of support and love was unreal: people who said prayers for my family, the administration and professors sent me cards of support and love. i can honestly say i never expected that level of sup­port and comfort, but to the people at notre dame that’s just what you do. it’s natural. 
looking back on the past four years, i never thought that i would be the man that i am today. no, i am obviously not perfect — spend even ten minutes with me and i’m sure i’ll joke about my latest goof of the week — but i can safely say that i am proud of the transformations i’ve made as a student of the university. and i never saw it com­ing, because it wasn’t until i saw everyone else grow into their own that i was able to settle into 
My last will 
To Jason ruiz: more space in your schedule where i’d normally hog your office hours, the uni­corn emoji, small southern towns and (hopefully) much more pemco. 
To my pemcats: i give you my best. 
To the pemcommunity: movie nights, popcorn, “hamilton,” groupies, posters, photo shoots and a presence on campus and social media that has grown immensely in scope and influence. i leave you not just a club — a community. i am so proud of all of you. 
To amanda bartolini, Tommy Favorite, ryan Jones and brynn alexander: the strength to carry the pemco brand well into the future. 
To morgan rice: all the “likes” and followers in the world, plus the infinite power of planning and executing marketing campaigns. 
To sam squeri and Kelsey dool: coffee, and lots of it. 
To liz anthony: brunch at uptown Kitchen, sunny south bend days, the farmer’s market and the fishbowl. 
To maria anthony: ben schrimpf. 
To brian davis: happy days in south bend, plus Jacob and liz’s siblings. 
To connor Quigley: a pair of pants (not shorts). 
To margaret hynds: much coffee. very nap. many luck. wow. 
To delta news: the matriarchy, the unfixable page 2, no breaking stories. ever. 
To The observer staff: more animal crackers, and the assurance that your work matters, even when it’s thankless. 
To rosie biehl: my single in bp. Treat it well. it is a treasure. 
To breen-phillips: a dome dance. you’re welcome. 
To sr. mary mcnamara: the first floor, welcome weekend and many more years of excellence in the best place on campus. 
To nd admissions: very well-trained tour guides who don’t show up as late as i always did. 
the flow of life in south bend; it wasn’t until i was able to see the strides my peers made that i was able to play my own game. 
The best part about becoming my own person, becoming my own man, these past four years is losing myself in the notre dame tradition and making it my own as well. The grotto trips, the alma maters, the ripping up of The observer and raining journalistic-confetti at basketball games and, of course, the football games, were things that i became very much a part of me as they did for countless other students in the past — and as they will become for the countless of fortunate students in the future. but as they became more and more a part of me, they became experiences of my own — and i grew more and more into the man that i am today. 
i don’t really know if i can recite to you what i learned in my sophomore year class, but i can tell you that the stuff i learned while at the university wasn’t always what was in the books. it was how i learned to be my own man, which i learned from watching my own peers figure out how to become their own man or woman. and for me, that was the perfect game plan. 
Miko Malabute is graduating with a degree in  biochemistry. With every minute that passes, he will probably find a new passion to pursue and  procrastinate responsibilities with while trying to  figure out life. To file any complaints, please email him at miko.malabute@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
To Team reilly (counselors and staff): #ndreilly #nd #food, more boys on the committee, yesterday’s, goose chase, “rudy” and all the stu­dents we recruited. 
To Tom bear and mark seamon: students who are less sassy than i am but love you just as much. 
To don bishop, bob mundy and leshane saddler: all my memphians on campus and all the happy easters. 
To val: my thanks. 
To bald and beautiful: my brother’s hair. 
To paul manrique: my brother. 
To Jack, Joe, christianos and chris Flynn: my brother. 
To Fr. doyle of dillon hall: my brother. 
To university president Fr. John Jenkins: my brother. 
To my brother, paul stevenson: so much love and the best wishes for your last two (or three) years here. you have already made an impact on this campus and i can’t wait to see what you achieve in the next two years. i thought coming to notre dame was the greatest privilege of my life, but in fact coming here with you has been the greatest. make good choices, bring honor to the family and live in every second you have at this place. 
To my parents: see above. you made all this hap­pen. you deserve this diploma as much as i do. you believed in me even when i couldn’t believe in myself, and you have supported me in every way. all i can say is thank you. 
Lesley Stevenson is proud to graduate with majors in film, television and theatre and American studies, but her crowning glory of these four years was contributing to every section of The Observer — including Photo and Graphics. She has bought a one-way ticket to New York to begin a career in theatrical producing, and you can reach her at lsteven1@alumni.nd.edu or on Twitter at  @lcstevenson. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 

On hearing you might transfer 
To a student of color, on hearing you might diversity in all of its expressions, whether transfer: racial, ethnic, economic, linguistic, aesthetic 
recently we learned you have become so or other forms, makes for a stronger, smarter, disheartened by racism at notre dame that more wholly human community. while it is you are considering transferring to another not your responsibility to make notre dame school. a better place, we want you to know that your 
we were told you and other students re-presence in this university matters. ceived several racist messages on yik yak, the you belong here. when you received your social media app that allows people to post letter from the admissions office telling you anonymous messages for others to read. we that you had been accepted to notre dame, don’t subscribe to yik yak, but one of our stu-this became your university.  The library, the dents shared one of the messages you saw. dorms, the classrooms — these are your plac­
we were sickened. The message was racist, es. The quads, the lakes, the grotto — they and it was infuriating. as awful as it was, we are here for you. no one has the right to take understand this may not be the only instance these from you, and no one can. let the hat-of racism you have encountered on the notre ers leave, if that’s what they choose. we will dame campus. so we can understand why wish them better days and hope they some-you might want to leave. and we support, day learn to love others as god intended. categorically, your right to make decisions notre dame belongs to you, not them. why that will enable you to feel safe, to flourish should you leave? and to be happy — whatever those decisions as you well know, a hallmark of the united might be. states’ past is institutionalized racism; and 
we write this letter to share our thoughts the struggle for justice and equality contin­with you and other students of color as you ues. The racist message you received makes consider the future. we want you to know: clear that that struggle is taking place, too, at 
your faculty and staff care about you. we notre dame. want to do everything we can to help you we write as notre dame faculty members learn, grow and thrive at notre dame. we to say your struggle is our struggle. we will want to teach you, and we want to learn from stand beside you, and we will denounce you. and we will do all we can to help you feel all forms of hate speech as intolerable and that notre dame is truly your home. unacceptable. 
you have allies among your fellow stu-we wish you everything good as you con-dents. as tragic as it is that some notre dame sider your bright future, and we offer you our students are so lost in personal webs of igno-support. rance and fear, many more students believe sincerely, in the notre dame mission of promoting John Duffy learning in the service of justice.  The student professor of english who showed us the racist message was dis-Jan. 18, 2015 traught at the thought you might leave. That student and others like her are your allies and To view the complete list of the 157  your friends. authors who have signed their names to 
you make notre dame a better place. this letter, visit ndsmcobserver.com 
no regrets, one request 
we have no regrets. we booked our hotels after the pittsburgh game. we booked our flights after usc. we prayed we would win tickets in the lottery. 99 percent of us didn’t. we appealed to our spouses and better sensibilities that this was a once in a lifetime event. They submitted. and then we paid way too much for tickets. we begged our parents to take the grandkids for a few days. They couldn’t say no. we had used up our fun tickets for the year by Jan. 7. we flew from places like r.i., s.d., idaho and Texas. we arrived in south Florida to eternal sun and optimism. we may have had a cocktail (or two). we saw dear friends we haven’t seen in 10, 15 or 20 years. we felt an energy, a pas­sion and a part of something that we haven’t felt in a long, long time. it felt like home. we tailgated like champions. The blues and greens outnumbered the reds at least three-to-one. of the 55,000 domers in the stadium, we were the 40,000 who stayed until the clock hit 0:00. we have no regrets. we would do it all over again, even if we already knew the ending. we thank you. 
we have one request. at one of the greatest games in our history, we failed to ac­knowledge maybe our greatest tradition, and that is standing together as one family and singing our praise to our beloved lady of the lake. our feeling of emptiness in the stands grew ever deeper when we could not acknowledge the good fight and send off our team properly for having one of the greatest seasons we can remember, and for giving all of us alumni the opportunity to experience what we did. maybe it was the overwhelming grief of the moment. maybe it was the bureaucracy of the orange bowl committee and their stages and ensuing presentations. but i ask you, next time, make it happen. give us the opportunity to thank the team for a tremendous season, and show us a little love for the sacrifices we all made to be there in support. misery loves company, and we all could have used a little family love around about 0:00. we are nd. 
Andrew Nachman 
class of 1997 Jan. 16, 2013 
on Father hesburgh 
dear Father Ted, 
it is with gratitude and deep devotion that i write to reflect on your legacy at notre dame and your lasting gift to the women of our lady.  Forty-plus years later, we women of nd are the proud legacy of your having the vision and the courage many years ago to break the mold and allow us to attend this great university. The notre dame community fostered and grew under your good guidance, and the men and women that now serve as our lady’s ambassadors are positive proof that co­education is the best environment for men and women to learn how to live and work together.  we women of notre dame are blessed and thankful for having been given this opportunity to grow and serve in the spirit of our lady. 
you have set an example for all of us, the men and women of notre dame, of the importance of service to god and others above self. your legacy will live on in all of us who were made to feel as equals on this campus, whether in the classroom or the athletic arena.  you inspired us to strive toward excellence, to challenge the status quo, to break barriers in our careers and our lives and to look to our lady for guid­ance and support. 
your dedication to god, to country and to notre dame (to paraphrase from a “best-seller”), has given us the moral compass to live by.  whether in our profession­al lives, or more importantly in raising our families and within our communities, the lessons you helped impart while we were at notre dame have shaped who we are.  we are the women of notre dame, and we are a powerful, spiritual and respon­sible group who cherish life and seek justice and truth. 
we thank you for your influence in our lives, which will live on in eternity. your work on this earth is now complete; may you rest in peace in the comfort of your lord. 
we are notre dame. 
yours in our lady, 
Tara C. Kenney 
class of 1982 first woman student body vice president march 1, 2015 
Prayers: not enough 
sexual assault prompts: prayers? feigned solidarity it displays. consequences? change? action? when a prayer service continues to be 
in the wake of student government’s the only visible consequence of sexual inaugural sexual assault prayer service violence — a response in name but not for the year, it seems fitting to evaluate in substance — student government sets the response to sexual violence pro-a precedent of passivity that does little posed by campus leadership. praising to bolster their own credibility or that of the “great visibility with ‘one is Too the student community. many’ last year,” student body vice pres-if, as cavanaugh resident assistant ident matt devine gave observer read-allison leddy claims, by attending this ers a glimpse into his administration’s university we choose “to be more,” stu­approach: “we’re looking at more action dent leadership from laFortune to each words … if there’s something we can do residence hall must take a more authori­to incorporate the idea of an active by-tative role in curbing a beer-swilling stander into the title, then we’d like to.” culture of frat boy conformity. For it is 
This word-driven campaign to com-this cultural mentality, and not student bat sexual assault with catchy slogans is government’s prayer service, that cur-worse than misguided; it’s insulting. rently represents each freshman’s intro-
ask a victim of sexual violence if light-duction to educating “the mind and the ing a candle changes a culture. ask a heart.” perpetrator if posters would have stuck if alcohol is an initiation into dorm in his mind. ask yourself, the unnamed brotherhood, is it also an initiation into “active bystander,” if anyone remem-sexual activity, wanted or unwanted? if bers the silence of the “sacred grotto” we segregate dorms by gender, can we in between shots and ceaseless fingers. expect a woman to enter a male dorm where unanswered prayers fail and as anything other than an exciting and discourse deflates, addressing the roots foreign object? of sexual assault requires an immediate most importantly: can our student and un-romanticized policy. government align itself with dorm lead-
The threats to an incoming class of ers to change initiations that anesthe­potential prey will not be prayed away. tize our self-respect? devine stated, “[The prayer service]’s we can either acknowledge that the first year students’ first introduction this community needs more than a to something like this, and it’s impor-prayer service, or sleepwalk to our tant for them to understand that this is self-destruction. our response.” according to the student body vice president, the importance of Dylan Parent & Austin Hagwood the prayer service lies not in the moral class of 2015 bankruptcy it allows, but rather in the sept. 24, 2014 
paid adverTisemenT 

COMMENCEMENT WEEKEND 2016 
Dear Graduates, 
Prayers and best wishes to members of the Class of 2016! On behalf of the University, thank you for the many and varied contributions you have made to this community. I hope that your time at Notre Dame has been fruitful and complete with opportunities to enrich not only your mind, but your heart. Today, we join in celebration of your accomplishments. 
When you first arrived at Notre Dame, we welcomed you as a member of our community. Now, with a degree in her name, you will forever represent Notre Dame to the broader world. I hope that the education you have received here will be applied in a vocation that you pursue with wisdom, integrity, and purpose. May reflection and spirituality remain an integral part of your daily life and inspire you always to serve those in need. Wherever life’s journey may lead, I hope that your path is surrounded by fellow Notre Dame friends, mentors, and faculty who encourage and support your endeavors. 
May Our Lady be with you and watch over you always; and know you will forever have a home here on campus. 
In Notre Dame, 


Erin Hoffmann Harding Vice President for Student Affairs 



SMC senior 

receives ROTC leadership award 
By KATHRYN MARSHALL 
news writer 
caroline rech, a senior nurs­ing major and roTc air Force cadet, is the first from saint mary’s to be named top of her air Force class, which includes cadets from both notre dame and saint mary’s. 
in addition to being first in her class of nine cadets, rech received the commander’s leadership award and was one of four cadets to be hon­ored with a sabre this year, she said. 
“To know there is this huge legacy of outstanding saint mary’s women who have been a part of roTc, and to know that i’m among the top of them, is a huge honor,” rech said. 
The commander’s leadership award is given an­nually to the top cadet of the roTc air Force detachment at 
“To know there is this huge legacy of outstanding Saint Mary’s women who have been a part of ROTC, and to know that I’m among the top of them, is a huge honor.” 
Caroline Rech 
senior 
notre dame who demonstrates dependability, character, mili­tary discipline, leadership and high personal standards, rech said. 
rech said she found out about the award after follow­ing up on a missed call from her commander after class. 
“he’s a colonel in the army and colonels don’t usually call you — they have people work­ing for them who do that,” rech said. “i was so nervous. i thought ‘what did i do? This cannot be good,’ and i called him back, and he told me i got the award. 
“it was definitely a surprise. i know i’ve done well. in roTc, you’re constantly being ranked and rated, and they tell you kind of where you are, and my class is very impressive. it’s pretty competitive — they’re all pretty great and it’s just a huge honor.” 
within her class of nine se­nior cadets, eight received academic honors and out­standing physical fitness stan­dards, rech said. she said the commander of the northeast region was impressed with the class, saying if the nine were each at different schools, they would all finish as top cadets. 
eight of the nine have been together since freshman year and are part of a class that be­gan with more than 20 mem­bers, rech said. 
rech said she doesn’t have any immediate family in­volved in the military, and wasn’t aware of roTc until high school, when she decided she wanted to join the armed forces after college. during the college decision process, rech’s mom helped her get in touch with detachments of the different colleges she was considering. 
at the same time, rech said she also knew she wanted to pursue nursing. 
“i had this deep passion for service,” rech said. “i knew that was something i wanted to be a part of my life in what­ever i did and i felt nursing was a way to fulfill that in car­ing for people when they’re in their most vulnerable times.” 
during her time with roTc, rech spent 11 weeks in 2013 studying russian in san diego with other cadets and mid­shipmen from around the country, she said. The follow­ing summer, she had the op­portunity to travel to estonia with friends in the program. 
however, rech said, roTc hasn’t been easy. 
“it’s tough, it’s competitive and it’s a different environ­ment,” rech said. “i’m over [at notre dame] on Tuesdays. There could be a circus that happens at saint mary’s on Tuesdays and i [would] have no idea because i’m over there. i feel i have missed some things here on campus. ... it’s been a challenge and part of it is that it has been so new.” 
rech said an roTc scholar­ship she received enabled her to attend saint mary’s. 
“i never, ever would have thought when i accepted the scholarship and started roTc that i would be where i am now,” rech said. “i’ve had some amazing opportunities through roTc that make me even more excited to see what active duty will bring. i’ve de­veloped responsibility and leadership and discipline, and in addition to that i have guid­ance from great officers who teach us and help us grow in our leadership.” 
in august, rech will begin active duty at a civilian hos­pital in Tampa, Florida, where she will spend several months doing nursing clinicals. she will then go to Travis air Force base in california to start medical-surgical nursing. 
Contact Kathryn Marshall at  kmarsh02@saintmarys.edu 



paid adverTisemenT 

5 National Champions 
29 Conference titles 

7 NCAA Final Four appearances 
12 NCAA Elite Eight appearances 
32 NCAA Sweet 16/Round of 16 appearances 
2 Bowl wins 
40 All-Americans 
7 Academic All-Americans 
1 Academic All-America Team Member of the Year 
4 ACC Postgraduate Scholarship Recipients 
3 ACC Scholar-Athletes of the Year 
5 National Players or Freshmen of the Year 
8 Conference Players or Freshmen of the Year 
40,000+ Community Service Hours 
Thank you for four great years, and congratulations to the graduating senior student-athletes of the class of 2016. 
From Notre Dame Athletics 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Notre Dame ROTC to commission senior cadets 

By LUCAS MASIN-MOYER 
news writer 
on may 14 in the debartolo performing arts center, 13 cadets will be commissioned while the former chairman of the Joint chiefs of staff, gen. martin dempsey, gives the keynote address. This ceremo­ny will be a joint commission­ing with members of the navy and air Force roTcs. 
according to lt. col. christopher pratt, the class of 2016 has stood out for its intelligence, motivation, and leadership. 
“we have a very strong se­nior class — we have 13 se­niors commissioning, which is the largest commissioning class out of the tri-mil this year,” pratt said. “out of this senior class, we have four that we call dmg — distinguished military graduates. These are individuals that are in the top 10 percent of the country.” 
The notre dame roTc is comprised of students from six universities — the university of notre dame, bethel college, saint mary’s college, holy cross college, indiana university at south bend (iusb) and valparaiso university. 
The cadets who are being commissioned from notre dame, listed with their as­signments, are as follows: 
•	 
austin crehan — illinois national guard 

— infantry 

•	 
michael deasey — army reserve — military intelligence 

•	 
Fernanda garcia — active duty — corps of engineers 

•	 
matthew Jackson — active duty — Field artillery 

•	 
John lake — active duty — cyber corps 

•	 
michael mcgraw — active duty — armor 

•	 
peter noell — active duty — infantry 

•	 
ryne Quinlan — arizona national guard 


— corps of engineers 
•	 michael weeks — army reserve — military intelligence 
From saint mary’s college, isabella gagnon and brett Quick, both of whom will be serving active duty in the signal corps, will be commissioned. 
according to pratt, the class of 2016 enjoyed many spe­cial experiences, chief among them being a staff ride to the gettysburg battlefield. 
pratt said this trip “allows [cadets] to connect to the pro­gram’s history and lineage, tying into the irish brigade, which served at gettysburg.” 
in addition, this trip al­lowed seniors to view a statue of Father william corby, a for­mer president of the university and member of the irish brigade during the battle of gettysburg, a replica of which stands outside of corby hall. 
The senior cadets also par­ticipated in many other events this year, including leadership developments exercises (ldX) at the national guard armory in Kingsbury, indiana and at Fort custer in michigan. cadets also participated in combat water survival tests at the university, rapelling labs at the south bend Fire department and two awards ceremonies. 
pratt said success is con­sistent among cadets in the notre dame roTc program and that this success is the culmination of four years of work. 
“when you come in as a scholarship cadet to notre dame, you generally finish,” he said. “we have about a 96% progression rate, which means that if you start the program, you generally finish if you’re a scholarship cadet. The im­portant thing with that is that 95% of seniors [were commis­sioned] ... [and] that is mostly based on their performance.” 
Contact Lucas Masin-Moyer at lmasinmo@nd.edu 
15 ND students awarded national fellowships 
By JUSTINE WANG 
news writer 
Fifteen graduating seniors have received awards from the prestigious Fulbright 
u.s. student program. This program provides grants for individually-designed study, research projects or english Teaching assistant programs. 
according to its website, the Fulbright program “fa­cilitates cultural exchange through direct interaction on an individual basis in the classroom, field, home and in routine tasks, allowing the grantee to gain an apprecia­tion of others’ viewpoints and beliefs, the way they do things and the way they think.” 
The awardees for Fulbright study and research grants were lauren antosz, rose doerfler, charlie ducey, savannah Kounelis and andrew scruggs. The award­ees for english Teaching assistantships were whitney bellant, bridget galassini, adam henderson, mcKenzie hightower, Zachary horne, ray’von Jones, emily 
migliore,  monika  spalinski,  
luke  wajrowski  and  Kyle  
witzigman.  

witzigman, who is an hon­ors political science major and a member of both the hesburgh-yusko scholars program and glynn Family honors program, said he was inspired to apply for the fellowship partially due to multiple research and travel opportunities he had at notre dame during his undergrad­uate career. 
“notre dame’s support and funding allowed me to teach and intern with non-gov­ernmental organizations in hanoi, vietnam during two separate summers,” he said. “i attended a higher educa­tion conference in bac ninh province last summer and was intrigued by the relation­ship between an education and an education system. Fulbright provides a window in which i can learn about the nuance of a culture and of a student perspective by teach­ing in a classroom.” 
witzigman said he has four goals for his time in vietnam. 
“one, learn how to cook vietnamese food. Two, im­prove my vietnamese lan­guage skills. Three, play football with a câu l.c b. and make a fool of myself,” he said. “and four, say yes more often than not.” 
ducey and wilson both re­ceived the austrian Teaching assistantship, which “pro­vides prospective teachers of german and/or graduates with an interest in austrian studies with opportunities to work at secondary schools throughout austria,” accord­ing to cuse. 
other awards included funding for abroad graduate programs. 
grefenstette, who is a the­ology major in the hesburgh­yusko scholars program and glynn Family honors program, received full fund­ing for a one-year master’s of china studies program at yenching academy, a presti­gious college within peking university. 
according to dr. Jeffrey Thibert, interim director and assistant director of nation­al fellowships at cuse, the graduating classes of recent years have seen increasing success in regards to national fellowship applications, es­pecially the Fulbright u.s. student program. 
“we have also seen increas­ing success more generally for notre dame undergradu­ates. ... not only have we had a rhodes scholar for two con­secutive years, but also we have had larger numbers of finalists for other major fel­lowships, like the marshall scholarship and luce scholarship,” Thibert wrote in an email. 
among the graduating class, six students were awarded fellowships from the national science Foundation graduate research Fellowship program (nsF grFp), and two were named honorable mention. according to cuse, the fel­lowship provides funding for research-based study leading to a master’s or doctoral de­gree in the fields of science, engineering, technology, math or social science. The national science Foundation received over 17,000 appli­cations for the 2016 com­petition, and made 2,000 fellowship award offers and 2,908 honorable mentions. 
“i believe that this increas­ing success is indicative of an upward trend for fellowships outcomes for notre dame stu­dents and alumni, as it is now clearer than ever that our stu­dents and graduates can hold their own in the competitions for these prestigious oppor­tunities,” Thibert said. 
The awardees includ­ed Kenzell huggins, brian Keene, ellen norby, Joseph norby, Toby Turney and melanie wallskog. Jesse david suter and Zoe volenec received honorable mention awards. 
wallskog, who is an honors economics and acms major in the glynn Family honors program, expressed the flex­ibility that the nsF’s grFp will provide her going forth as she pursues an economics ph.d at stanford university in the fall. 
having been a part of sev­eral economics research projects, some of which were with the wilson sheehan lab for economic opportunities, wallskog naturally found graduate school to be her next step, she said. 
“my nd economics profes­sors highly recommended that i apply for the nsF grFp as part of my journey to­wards my economics ph.d,” wallskog said in an email. “The grFp is extremely valu­able for three reasons — it provides three years of grad school funding, it allows you to focus on research dur­ing those three years ... and it sends a big signal in your grad application that you are a valuable applicant. 
“The grFp allows me a lot of research flexibility at stanford, since it encourages me to focus on my own re­search, rather than teaching or researching solely for fac­ulty members. Furthermore, having the grFp opens up opportunities for me with the nsF; they have additional funding resources and pro­grams that are particularly available to grFp recipients,” wallskog said. 
according to Thibert, be­sides graduating seniors, cuse is seeing increased alumni success in applying for national fellowships as well. 
“For some, it makes sense to wait an extra year or two to apply for something like the rhodes or Fulbright, because it gives them more time to de­velop a record of achievement that demonstrates that they are already making a differ­ence with regard to a field of study or social issue,” he said. “First, we would like to see more alumni applying for national fellowships. second, alumni can work with cuse on their applications. Third, nearly all fellowships allow you to apply multiple times, so i would encourage most people to apply as graduat­ing seniors and as alumni 
— in fact, both of our most recent rhodes scholars were re-applicants. 
“an undergraduate educa­tion characterized by scholar­ly engagement [and] applying what is learned in the class­room to make a meaningful impact on the world, is key to success with national fel­lowships, and cuse’s pri­mary role is to help students identify and pursue these op­portunities. ... cuse has had great success in recent years, and we look forward to build­ing on that momentum in the years ahead.” 
Contact Justine Wang at jwang27@nd.edu 


Fr. Theodore Hesburgh dies at 97 

on Feb. 26, 2015, Fr. Theodore hesburgh, 15th president of notre dame and one of the most influential figures in higher education, died at the age of 97. Friends, family and the notre dame community came to­gether to celebrate his life at his funeral held at the basilica of the sacred heart on march 4, 2015. 
Former president of the united states Jimmy carter and former secretary of state condoleezza rice, m.a. class of 1975, topped a long list of dignitaries who of­fered reflections at the memorial service for hesburgh on march 4 in purcell pavilion. 
other speakers included carter’s wife, former First lady rosalynn carter; former presi­dent of princeton university william bowen; indiana sen. Joe donnelly, class of 1977 and law school class of 1981; dillon hall rector Fr. paul doyle; former foot­ball head coach lou holtz; arch­bishop emeritus of washington cardinal Theodore mccarrick; indiana gov. mike pence; board of Trustees member martin w. rogers, class of 1988; former wyoming sen. alan simpson and former pennsylvania sen. harris wofford. 
university president Fr. John Jenkins described Fr. hesburgh as a moral force in a statement sent to the student body. 
“while serving four popes and accepting 16 presidential ap­pointments, Father Ted was a moral force in virtually all major social issues of his day, includ­ing civil rights, peaceful uses of atomic energy, campus unrest, treatment of vietnam draft evad­ers, third-world development and immigration reform. 
“next to notre dame’s found­er, Father edward sorin, c.s.c., no one has had a greater impact on the university than Father Ted. with his appointments to the faculty, his creation of great centers and institutes for scholarship and research, his commitment to our catholic character, and, most of all, his leadership, charisma and vision, he turned what was a school well-known for football into one of the nation’s great institutions for higher learning.’ 

ND, SMC lose 12 students in four years 
2012 witnessed the passing of health-related issues. sorensen as a shy, smart girl. a four-year member of the irish students. Third-year law student two students. on oct. 18, saint was able to graduate early, de-Five notre dame students varsity fencing team, winning Karabo moleah, 26, died march mary’s sophomore Ziqi Zhang spite his deteriorating health. were lost in 2015. sophomore two monograms. 31 in philadelphia; he had been died from injuries sustained in his friends described him as re-daniel Kim was found dead rebecca Townsend, a mem-studying in the law school’s a collision between her bike and lentless in his motivation to find Feb. 6 in his off-campus resi-ber of the incoming class of washington d.c. program. an suv outside of the main en-cures for diseases, due to his per-dence. a former fencer, Kim 2019, died July 2 after she and a he had previously lived in the trance to saint mary’s on state sonal experiences. was a business student from friend were struck by a car dur-Fischer o’hara grace student road 933. Zhang was a dual-de-notre dame and saint mary’s new Jersey. ing a Fourth of July celebration. community, and his friends re­gree student at saint mary’s tak-lost two students in 2014. senior finance major lisa yang she graduated with honors from member his questioning nature ing engineering classes at notre Third-year ph.d. student akash died march 3; her death was immaculate high school in and intelligence. dame. sharma died Jan. 1. sharma was ruled a suicide by the st. Joseph danbury, connecticut. on march 9, junior Theresa 
michael Thigpen, a first year studying chemical and biomo-county coroner’s office. she was Junior Jake scanlan, a me-sagartz was found dead in her master’s student and profes-lecular engineering and worked a resident of mcglinn hall and chanical engineering major from off-campus residence from nat­sional musician, died nov. 13 at as a teaching assistant. he was friends said she was naturally north potomac, maryland was ural causes related to a chronic his off-campus residence. he is from india. good at everything she tried. found unresponsive in his bed in medical condition. a third gen-remembered by his loved ones saint mary’s first-year senior billy meckling died siegfried hall on nov. 11; he was eration member of the notre for his caring nature and strong madelyn stephenson died when in the early hours of may 16 af-pronounced dead shortly there-dame community, sagartz was desire to help people. her car was hit on the driver’s ter falling from the roof of the after. his friends said he treated in the college of science. her 
connor sorensen died dec. 20, side by a semi-tractor Jan. 3. she Joyce athletic and convocation everyone like an old friend and friends and family remember 2013 after a lifelong battle with had a passion for learning arabic center; he was set to graduate loved to make people smile. her as adventurous, self-assured lung disease, along with other and her loved ones described her the following day. meckling was in 2016, notre dame lost two and generous with her time. 
notre dame initiates suit over hhs mandate 

on may 21, 2012, notre dame filed a law­suit to challenge the department of health and human services (hhs) mandate requir­ing employers to provide contraceptive services in their health insurance plans. after a court battle which made it all the way to the supreme court, a federal court of ap­peals ruled against notre dame on may 19, 2015. 

university recognizes lgbTQ organization 
on dec. 5, 2012, the university released a formal statement declar­ing the result of a review process that lasted five months: the administra­tive support for students identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgen­der and questioning would be increased. 
The recognition of the student organization, prismnd, was included in this statement. 


students abroad witness papal election 

on march 13, 2013, Jorge mario bergoglio, now known as pope Francis, was elected pope benedict’s successor after two weeks of consider­ation by the conclave of cardinals. pope Francis is the first latin american pope. 
many of the notre dame and saint mary’s students who were abroad witnessed the turnover in st. peter’s square. 
university announces ‘campus crossroads’ 


on Jan. 29, 2014, the university announced the $400 million “campus crossroads project.” The undertak­ing is a renovation to the stadium, which will include classrooms, rec­reational facilities, meet­ing rooms and a student center. 
The purpose of the en­deavor is to centralize every element of campus life in one location. 

nd announces school for global affairs on oct. 1, 2014, the university an­nounced plans to open the donald r. Keough school of global affairs, the first new college at the university in nearly a century. it will be based in Jenkins hall, a new building currently un­der construction, and r. scott appleby will serve as the marilyn Keough dean for the school. 

espn sues notre dame for record access 

on Jan. 15, 2015, espn filed a lawsuit against notre dame claiming ndsp violated indiana’s public records law by re­fusing to release campus police records. 
although the trial court judge ruled in notre dame’s favor in april 2015, espn won the appeal march 15, 2016 when the indiana court of appeals ruled that ndsp is a public agency. 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 





SUSAN ZHU | The Observer 

The independenT To uncover newspaper serving The TruTh noTre dame and and reporT sainT mary’s iT accuraTely 

volume 50, issue 133 | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 
FOOTBALL | 10-3  MEN’S BASKETBALL | 24-12, 11-7 Acc  
Irish reach Fiesta Bowl  ND returns to  
despite early injuries  Elite Eight  

By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Assistant managing editor 
In the end, it was all just too much for notre dame — too many injuries, too much rain, too many seconds and too much ezekiel elliot. 
Through all the adversity, however, the Irish managed to put together their best sea­son since their 2012 national championship run and just their second 10-win season since 2006. 
The team finished only four points — a failed two-point conversion in a hurri­cane in death valley against national runner-up clemson and a last-second field goal in the regular season finale against stanford in Palo Alto, california — shy of an unde­feated regular season before falling to ohio state, 44-28, in the Fiesta bowl. 
Graduate student everett Golson and junior malik Zaire duked it out for the starting quarterback position in 2015’s 
see FooTbALL PAGE 31 


By ALEX CARSON 
Assistant managing editor 
back in november and december, it looked unlikely notre dame could climb back to the elite eight, where it fin­ished the previous season. 
The Irish (24-12, 11-7 Acc) dropped two of three at the Advocare Invitational over Thanksgiving break, falling to monmouth and Alabama, and blew a 16-point second-half lead against Indiana at the crossroads classic on dec. 19 in Indianapolis. And after early conference losses to virginia and Pittsburgh, notre dame sat just 10-5 over­all and 1-2 in the Acc. 
but a week after that Pitt loss — a rare home defeat for the Irish — they went on the road and got their season back on track in a 95-91 win at then-no. 9 duke on Jan. 16. sophomore forward bonzie colson led notre dame off the bench that day, scoring 
31 points and grabbing 11 re-
WEI LIN | The Observer 
bounds, as notre dame did 

Irish sophomore quarterback DeShone Kizer surveys the field  
enough to get their fourth win 

during Notre Dame’s 44-28 loss to Ohio State on Jan. 1. 
in the last five tries over the blue devils. 
“We got enough defensive stops to get out of there,” Irish head coach mike brey said af­ter the win. “ … [It was a] great day of growth for us early in the season.” 
It was one of a handful of defining moments for the Irish in 2016. but the biggest ones came in march, during the ncAA tournament. 
At halftime of notre dame’s first-round showdown with no. 11 seed michigan, things looked bleak for the Irish. They trailed 41-29 at the break in brooklyn, new York, and it looked like they were headed toward resurrecting the pro­gram’s trend of early tourna­ment exits. 
“[The halftime] conversa­tion started nice and calm, and then I just started to lose it a little bit,” brey said march 18. “As far as, ‘I love you. You’re great guys, you have done everything we’ve asked, but either you’re 
see m bbALL PAGE 32 
OUTSTANDING SENIOR ATHLETES 

Seniors rewrite their programs’ record books 
Three-time All-American Matt Kavanagh strives to lead the Irish to first NCAA national title  
By ALEX CARSON  By MAREK MAZUREK  
Assistant managing editor notre best n dame, he was seen as one of the ewcomers in his class — and the  sports editor  
When matt Kavanagh walks off the Irish u sed a local connection to lure the  Winning is in molly seidel’s blood. she  
field for the final time later this month — rockvi lle centre, new York, native to  has four national championships to her  
whether it be after a win or a loss — he’ll south bend.  name, and with the outdoor Acc and  
walk off as one of the best players to wear “Thr ough the recruiting process, the  ncAA finals coming up, seidel will have  
the notre dame uniform. As a fresh­assista nt coach — Gerry byrne — actu­ even more opportunities to add to her tro­ 
man, he led the team in goals and assists, ally we nt to my high school, so he got in  phy case.  
with those 32 goals an Irish record for a contac t with my coaches, and then we  The hartland, Wisconsin native is the  
first-year. When he scored 75 points in linked  up and talked during my junior  reigning cross country national champion,  
the 2014 season, he set a new program season , and then after my junior season  and in march, she won both the 3,000-me­ 
record. And when he’s done, he’ll be the ended,  I gave them a verbal commitment  ter and the 5,000-meter national champi­ 
second highest-scorer in notre dame that I w as going to come here,” he said. “It  onships. Yet, when considering these three  
history. happe ned pretty fast. Looking back on it,  recent accolades, seidel said it is her first  
That’s not a bad haul for the three­[it’s] pr obably the best decision that I’ve  championship — the 10,000-meter title  
time All-American and 2015 Tewaaraton made.”  back in June of 2015 — that stands out to  
Award finalist. befo re the 5-foot-8 attack stepped  her.  
Kavanagh’s history with, and interest foot on  campus, he was competing at a  “The 10K stands out, you always remem­ 
in, lacrosse goes back to his childhood — high le vel — for his country though, not  ber your first,” seidel said. “Just because it  
he was introduced to the sport through the Iri sh. Kavanagh was a member of  was so unexpected. It just kind of came out  
a friend’s uncle, who was the coach at the Us A under-19 national team in 2012  of nowhere. It was kind of the start of, ‘ok,  
virginia. and sa id the experience the summer be- I can really be competitive on the national  
“At a young age, I was exposed to the fore hi s freshman year helped ease his  level.’ I’d never run at a national track meet  
sport and at the time, virginia was ar­transit ion.  before. ... It was kind of that moment where  
guably the best team in the country,” “It w as really cool. The under-19 team  I realized, ‘ok, you can do this again.’”  
Kavanagh said. “They went to a bunch was a wesome,” Kavanagh said. “We  now, seidel’s success is anything but un­ 
of final fours that I attended as a little ended  up winning the gold medal there.  expected. With her four national titles, she  
kid and then they won a couple national I think  a lot of my success early in my ca- is easily the most decorated women’s track  
championships, so that definitely moti­reer —  freshman and sophomore years  and field athlete in notre dame’s history.  
vated me to play the sport at the highest  she is the first woman ever to win an in- 
level.”  see KAvAnAGh PAGE 30  dividual national championship at notre  

by the time Kavanagh matriculated to 
Track and cross country star Molly Seidel to leave university as a decorated NCAA champion 
dame, and her cross country champion­ship marked the first time an Irish runner 
— men’s or women’s — accomplished the feat since oliver hunter claimed the na­tional title in 1942. 
And although seidel is arguably the greatest runner in school history, she said she prefers to keep her eye on the future rather than the past. 
“on a day-to-day thing, you’re just focus­ing on putting in the work and doing all the little things,” seidel said. “It’s kind of cool to be able to get the chance to maybe stop and appreciate it, but I try to always keep look­ing forward and not rest on the laurels.” 
despite her incredible success the past two seasons, seidel’s road to this point has not been free of bumps. during her first two years on campus, seidel struggled after battling a slew of injuries, including illness and stress fractures in her fibula and tibia. during her recovery, seidel said she relied on her training and her love of running. 
“I think it’s just trusting in the training,” seidel said. “Trusting in my love of the sport. regardless, I’d still be going out and doing it, no matter what. Just hanging with it and trusting in the training I was doing that I could get back where I had been.” 
see seIdeL PAGE 30 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

Kavanagh 
conTInUed From PAGe 29 
— I can attribute that to playing in those games over in Finland, playing at such a high level with really great players and play­ing against great players who all played division I. It was a little taste of what was to come. … I kin­da got to know what the intensity and the speed of the game is like at the next level.” 
once Kavanagh got on campus though, he made a big impact from the start: In notre dame’s second and third games of his freshman season, against Penn state and north carolina, Kavanagh scored game-winning overtime goals en route to his 48-point campaign. 
“It was definitely cool to con­tribute as a freshman,” he said. “You’re still trying to get to know the guys on your team, the guys in your class, and to score two big goals in overtime in the first cou­ple games of my career was defi­nitely cool, and it kind of set the tone for what was about to come. It was really cool playing with guys like sean rogers; he was a fifth-year senior, so I got to learn a lot and got a lot of experience from him that I’ve used over the years.” 
his sophomore season, 2014, turned out to be his best statisti­cally and while it also turned out to be the team’s best, it could’ve ended a lot earlier than where it did: in the national championship game. 
“To be honest, we were kind of having an up-and-down sea­son,” Kavanagh said. “We were the fourth-place team in the Acc tournament, and then we played maryland in the first round of the Accs and we kind of needed to win to get into the tournament, and we won that game in the last six seconds. That led us on a nice little run to the championship game, where we fell a little short.” 
but without one other pivotal moment, Kavanagh wouldn’t have gotten the record and the Irish wouldn’t have played for a title. In the fourth quarter of their ncAA quarterfinal game against Albany, the Irish trailed by five goals. but a rapid comeback forced overtime, and Kavanagh got the job done there, scoring his third career overtime winner to send the Irish to championship Weekend. For Kavanagh, that win meant more than advancing in the ncAA tournament. 
“my favorite moment was that was that game at hofstra against Albany in the quarterfinals where we ended up winning in over­time,” Kavanagh said. “ … It was pretty special for me just because of where we played at hofstra — I live about 10 minutes away, so I had about 30 or 40 family mem­bers there that got to enjoy it and celebrate after the game.” 
The quarterfinal win bought notre dame a couple more out­ings, and let Kavanagh set the school record in the title game loss. 
“I think I took my game to the next level that year, assuming a lot of responsibilities on the offensive end for our team,” he said. 

now, as Kavanagh is set to fin­ish his senior season, his role is different. Instead of being the underclassman making a big contribution, Kavanagh is one of the veteran leaders in the locker room. 
“You’re a role model and a leader to the younger guys — you set the tone in practice and weight room and off the field, so there’s a lot of responsibility that comes with that,” he said. “having played for the first few years as an under­classman, I got to spend a lot of time with upperclassmen and see how they handle themselves well. I did a pretty good job of taking what those older guys said and did and expressing it this year as a senior and as a captain.” 
In a classic bit of senior advice, Kavanagh noted how his four years at notre dame haven’t felt that long at all. 
“Looking back as a freshman, you don’t realize how quickly it goes,” Kavanagh said. 
When this season concludes, Kavanagh will have a chance to play professional lacrosse — he was selected fifth overall by the denver outlaws in this year’s major League Lacrosse draft — but he’s not focusing on that with only weeks left at notre dame. 
“I don’t think it would be fair to myself or my teammates if I looked ahead into what this sum­mer has in store,” Kavanagh said. 
“We still have a couple weeks left, and we’ve gotta take care of some business.” 
That business? chasing a first national title. 
“I think, honestly, that’s the only thing that’s missing from making this the best experience of my life,” Kavanagh said. “We’ve traveled all over the country — we even went to Italy, so we’ve trav­eled the world — played in nFL stadiums, played at the highest level on the highest stage in the national championship. 
“but I think it would be really nice to cap off this season and my career with a championship.” 
Contact Alex Carson at acarson1@nd.edu 
In her final seasons, seidel
Seidel 
has become a mentor to 
conTInUed From PAGe 29 
the younger runners on the team, including fresh-however, seidel’s time at notre man Anna rohrer, who fin-dame should be defined as more ished sixth overall in this than just a list of championships. year’s cross country ncAA 

championships. 
“It’s been great being able to have not only Anna but a number of freshmen this year who are extremely com­petitive on that national scale,” seidel said. “It really speaks to the strength of the team and makes it that much more exciting when you can go to a national race and have one of your teammates right there with you. 
“[It] definitely helps in training too, being able to run with another one of the best runners in the country and get to work with her. It’s been fun, and I’m very ex­cited to see how all of our freshmen grow and progress in the next several years.” 
The training partnership between rohrer and seidel benefits both runners, rohrer said. 
“I think it’s been really helpful to have someone to train with that I can look up to,” rohrer said. “[seidel] has accomplished so much, and I’m hoping to do the same, so it’s really cool to have someone like her to run with every day and to see what I need to do to get to that level.” 
And when she isn’t run­ning, seidel also shines in the classroom. seidel was recently named the Acc’s scholar-Athlete of the Year for the second consecutive season, and she has received All-Academic honors since her freshman year. on April 27, seidel was also awarded the byron v. Kanaley Award, which is awarded to senior 
athletes  who  have  been  
exemplar y  students  and  
leaders.  

“I think at a school like nd, you get the chance to be a full student and athlete at the same time,” seidel said. “It’s not like you’re going and just not playing school. You definitely have to put in the work on both ends, and I think they really compli­ment each other.” 
Through her studies as an anthropology major, seidel said she is glad she came to a school which emphasizes ac­ademics as well as athletics. 
“That’s definitely what I wanted coming into col­lege,” seidel said. “I wanted, not only to be an athlete, but to be able to have that incredible academic experi­ence. It hasn’t always been easy — there have been a lot of nights where I’ve been se­riously re-thinking my deci­sion to go to a school that’s so challenging academical­ly. but in the long run, it’s been incredible. I’ve gotten to have an amazing academ­ic experience. I’ve gotten to go and do independent research in different coun­tries and gotten to explore all these classes that I never thought I’d get the chance to take. It’s been really fun and incredibly rewarding.” 
And while graduation will conclude her undergraduate career at notre dame, seidel already has her eyes on an even bigger goal: qualifying for the 2016 olympics. 
“Knowing that the trials are coming up this summer has definitely been a big inspiration for me to work hard and keep going towards that,” she said. “You never know how it’s going to go. In races like that, it really just comes down to who’s ready on that day and who sets themselves up well. I’m just going to do everything I can to try and stay healthy and keep my training progress­ing so that I can be as ready as possible on the day [of the trials]. From there, it’s kind of in God’s hands.” 
And as her time at notre dame nears its close, seidel said she wants people to re­member her not for her four championships but rather for her love of running. 
“I love this sport more than anything. no matter what happens, I’m going to never give up, and I’m going to keep going for it,” seidel said. “And that’s just some­thing I always try to instill in the freshmen and some of the younger girls. You do the sports because you love it, and I love running more than just about anything.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


over and over again, and Football still Zaire stayed down, sur­conTInUed From PAGe 29 rounded by Irish trainers 
and teammates. eventually spring ball, but after Golson he was carted off the field announced he was transfer-and all eyes turned to his un­ring to Florida state on may proven and unknown backup 19, Zaire became the heir-coming in off the bench — apparent to take the starting sophomore deshone Kizer. job. senior running back c.J. 
This notion only solidi-Prosise, himself a replace­fied after Zaire shone in the ment after junior Tarean season-opener, completing Folston tore his AcL early in 19-of-22 passes for 313 yards the win over Texas, took the and three touchdowns while handoff on the next play and guiding notre dame’s of-made his new quarterback fense to a 38-3 victory over feel welcome, scampering in Texas in front of a raucous from 24 yards out to push the notre dame stadium on Irish in front 26-14. sept. 5. Kizer, who ran the first 14 

“[Zaire] clearly has the plays of his career against ability to throw the football the Longhorns, and the Irish as much as we would need offense struggled to get go-him to throw it and throw it ing for most of the fourth accurately, which he did to-quarter. The cavaliers had perfectly in the hands of Tranquill against Georgia late in the season. night,” Kelly said following no such problem, marching Fuller, streaking to the py-Tech. Tranquill, who missed That string unraveled mid-the game. “vertically, down right through the Irish de-lon just out of reach of the the final two games of the way through the first quar­the field, I thought he pushed fense for two touchdowns cavalier defender. Kizer 2014 season with a torn left ter of the Fiesta bowl. the ball down the field ac-in the fourth quarter to raced down the field with his AcL, tore the same liga-Junior All-American line­curately. he threw precision take a 27-26 lead with 1:54 arms in the air as the rau-ment in his right knee after backer Jaylon smith landed routes on dig routes. so we remaining. cous crowd at scott stadium landing awkwardly while awkwardly on his left leg at knew what he was capable That’s when Kizer’s mind suddenly fell silent as the celebrating a pass breakup the end of a play and had to of: I think he put it together went blank, he said after the Irish survived with a 34-27 and missed the rest of the be carted off the field. tonight, and he’s got room to game. victory. season. smith’s replacement, grow.” “not much went through It was just the beginning Prosise suffered a con-freshman Te’von coney, 
Zaire and the Irish of-my mind, it was kind of fun-for Kizer and the Irish of-cussion against Pitt and suffered a shoulder injury fense struggled at times the ny,” Kizer said. “I go to bed fense, which put up more returned two weeks later of his own two series later, following weekend against the night before a game pre-than 28 points in seven of against boston college, thrusting graduate student virginia though, trailing paring for that to happen, the 10 remaining games in where he suffered a high linebacker Jarrett Grace into 14-12 at halftime, but Zaire and I just kind of blanked. the regular season. ankle sprain that kept him extended action. found junior receiver Will It was time to play football, “certainly deshone Kizer sidelined for both the regu-The buckeyes and elliot, Fuller for a 59-yard score and that’s the only way I can doesn’t have the experi-lar-season finale at stanford their star junior running midway through the third look at it. I wasn’t going to be ence that malik has, but we and the Fiesta bowl. back, carved up what was quarter, the Irish defense the guy to come in and lose a can run our offense through senior cornerback left of the Irish defense for forced a punt, and the of-game for the Irish.” deshone,” Kelly said follow-Keivarae russell suffered the rest of the game. fense again started moving starting at his own 20-yard ing the virginia win. “he has a broken right tibia in the Kelly described smith’s in-into virginia territory, look-line, Kizer converted a 4th-a lot of weapons around him, shamrock series victory jury as a “significant knee ing to extend the lead. and-2 with a four-yard keep-and we saw that tonight. he over boston college in the injury” after the Fiesta bowl, 
Then came a 1st-and-10 er to keep the Irish alive, has a running back and re-penultimate game of the but only later did the full keeper by Zaire off the left and then completed three ceivers. We just have to bal-regular season and missed damage emerge for the po­side of the offensive line and straight passes to move the ance the offense and do the both stanford and the Fiesta tential top-10 pick in the a cavalier defender landing ball to the virginia 39. With things that he is capable of bowl. nFL draft: a torn AcL, torn in an awkward spot on the the clock running under doing. Junior linebacker James mcL and nerve damage. junior’s right ankle. 20 seconds, Kizer took the “Teams have to overcome onwaulu was hampered by despite the injury, smith 
Just like that, Irish fans na-snap, stepped to his left and injuries.” an mcL sprain late in the was selected 34th overall tionwide held their breath then let fly a bomb to the far even after losing his start-year. he missed the stanford by the dallas cowboys in as esPn showed the replay sideline. The ball dropped ing running back and start-loss. the 2016 draft, one of six 
ing quarterback in the first Junior cornerback devin Irish players taken in the two games of the season, butler broke his foot in prac-first three rounds and seven there is no way Kelly could tice leading up to the Fiesta overall draft picks. have known how those bowl. he missed the bowl “[I] couldn’t be more words came to define the game. proud of the football team,” rest of notre dame’s season, defensive lineman sheldon Kelly said following the especially on the defensive day also tweaked his foot in Fiesta bowl loss. “An honor side of the football. practice the week before the to coach them, honor to be 
The season’s injury report bowl game, but x-rays came around them. The way they reads like a laundry list: back negative and the senior competed this year, regard-
The defensive attrition be-defensive lineman played less of the circumstances, gan before the season even through the pain and an ill-they just kept playing. … started when senior defen-ness that required him to re-“I felt like, you know, this sive lineman Jarron Jones ceive Ivs the morning before game would ultimately be tore his mcL and freshman the Fiesta bowl to register decided on who was tougher cornerback shaun crawford four tackles — one for a loss and who was more physical. tore his AcL during fall — and force a fumble. We didn’t get out-toughed. camp. both missed the en-“[I] couldn’t be more [ohio state] ran the ball ef­tire season. proud of the way our kids fectively. I’m not taking any-
Graduate student safety competed, overcame some thing away from their ability Avery sebastian, who trans-catastrophic injuries to key to do so. ferred to notre dame from players,” Kelly said following “but we didn’t flinch. california before the season, his team’s last-second loss That’s the mark of this fractured a bone in his foot to stanford. “Quarterbacks, team this year: that they against Texas and missed running backs, tight ends, played hard and physical. the rest of the season. defensive linemen, corner-regardless of who was out 
starting junior tight end backs. I mean, we’re talk-there, they gave us every­durham smythe tore his ing about across the board thing they had. We were a mcL against virginia and here: We’re not just talking little shorthanded, but they missed the rest of the season. about one position, we’re didn’t make any excuses for 
Attrition at the safety po-talking about impacting all it. They battled.” sition continued two week-positions.” ends later with the loss of In short, notre dame was Contact Zach Klonsinski at sophomore safety drue hanging together by string zklonsin@nd.edu 




comeback to get it done. foul and got some contact,M Bball In a game that was tight missed my layup. Then I 
conTInUed From PAGe 29 

throughout, notre dame fell, and I just see the ball go 
held a seven-point lead through the net and I look gonna be a little tougher with nine minutes to play, and it was rex, the one that or this is gonna be another in prime position to put the tipped it in, and I couldn’t north carolina game all upstart Lumberjacks away. believe it.” over again. but everyone’ll but senior guard/forward The improbable finish pat you on the back because Thomas Walkup wouldn’t let landed Pflueger a spot on you’re nice guys and you get his stephen F. Austin team cbs’s tournament-ending good grades.’” go away lightly, drawing the “one shining moment” mon­
but it wasn’t another out-game even with a handful of tage and earned the Irish ing like notre dame’s 78-47 minutes to play before push-a trip to Philadelphia for a Acc semifinal loss to the Tar ing his team ahead in the sweet 16 showdown with heels, as the Irish opened closing minutes. seventh-seeded Wisconsin the second half on a 22-7 With just two minutes left, on march 25. run to take a 51-48 lead. the Lumberjacks led 75-70. That night, it looked like The Wolverines stayed in it, but notre dame didn’t notre dame may have run though, and with four min-panic. out of magic. With the game utes to play, the game was Junior guard demetrius tied 53-53 and 25 seconds tied, 59-59. Jackson hit a layup with 1:34 on the clock, badgers junior 
That’s when junior for-left, drained two free throws forward vitto brown hit a ward v.J. beachem stepped with 47 seconds to play and 3-pointer to put his squad up and led notre dame to after the Irish got a third ahead late. the win. he hit a 3-pointer, successive stop defensively, but as soon as brown’s then followed it up with an-looked to win the game for shot went through the buck-other bucket to put the Irish notre dame. et, Jackson led late-game ahead 64-59 en route to a 70-he drove, with the game heroics once more. he got a 63 win over the Wolverines. on the line, but his wild shot quick bucket with 19.3 sec-That first-round game was didn’t come close. senior onds left to close the gap to beachem’s coming-out forward Zach Auguste, who one, and when the Irish ap­party, as the Fort Wayne, was a perfect 8-for-8 from plied some defensive pres-Indiana, native went 7-of-7 the field, grabbed the re-sure, Wisconsin couldn’t from the field for 18 points. bound and tried for a put-handle it. 
“All of them were open back, but he too was unable colson stripped badgers shots, so we just had great to get the job done. junior forward nigel hayes movement, and the guys but it was freshman guard after the ensuing in-bounds found me when I was open,” rex Plueger, who hadn’t pass, and Jackson picked up beachem said that night. “I scored all day, who was the ball and scored to put was just able to step up and waiting to tip in the game-notre dame ahead, 57-56, getting his hands on it,” Though notre dame knock them down.” winner with 1.5 seconds left just 11 seconds after they Jackson said that night. “It didn’t top north carolina in 
The late game drama in to send notre dame to the went behind. After beachem kind of fell into my arms, the tournament, it did beat the tournament was far from sweet 16 in a 76-75 win. grabbed a defensive re-and I just wanted to put it in the then-no. 2 Tar heels at over for the no. 6 seed Irish, “I just saw the ball come bound and hit two free and finish it. … I just wanted home Feb. 6, coming back though. After 14th-seeded off and I just attacked it, and throws, Jackson got another to be aggressive defensive-from a 15-point deficit to stephen F. Austin pulled luckily it went in,” Pflueger steal, notre dame’s 10th of ly, just trying to get a steal top the eventual national an upset of no. 3 seed West said march 20. the night, and hit two of his and win the game, trying to runners-up 80-76. virginia in the first round, “I can’t thank rex enough own from the charity stripe make a game-winning play.” notre dame’s calculus to notre dame had a golden for finishing that,” Auguste to seal the 61-56 win. The win moved the Irish a win that night was simple: opportunity to return to said. “The ball was missed, “We had a really aggres-onto the elite eight, where 20 offensive rebounds, 31 consecutive sweet 16s. I went up, was aggressive sive trap, and then bonzie once more, they’d see their made free throws and just 
but again, it needed a on the glass, tried to draw a made a great defensive play, season come to an end at two turnovers were the keys the hands of a no. 1 seed — to an upset win that left the this time, it was to north Purcell Pavilion floor filled carolina, 88-74. with students not long after 
It looked like notre dame the final buzzer. had a chance when it used “one thing I’m really a 12-0 run to pull ahead 52-proud of, our program, when 51 with 13 minutes to play, we’ve been under the bright but the Tar heels showed a lights and the big stage, we ruthless efficiency down the have flat out delivered,” stretch — scoring 37 points brey said that night. “Flat on their final 19 possessions out delivered. Gameday 
— to take the double-digit again here, and I’m really win and keep notre dame proud of our program, and from its first Final Four in I’m so proud of this group. nearly 40 years. They’ve played in some big 
“They pounded on us, ones, and they find a way to they got second shots, they really deliver. couldn’t be made big shots,” brey said happier for them.” march 27. “didn’t they tip A Feb. 13, 71-66 win over one in off the back of their then-no. 13 Louisville ef­freaking head now that I fectively punched notre think of it? When something dame’s ticket to the ncAA like that happens, you go, tournament, where Jackson ‘You know, it’s been a good and beachem put in per-year.’” formances good enough to 
For a team that lost two make the ncAA’s All-east stars, Pat connaughton and regional squad. both ju-Jerian Grant, to the nbA, a niors declared for the nbA return to the elite eight was draft following the conclu­a tough task. sion of the season; Jackson 
“We had a lot of pressure hired an agent, ending his on us with what we were eligibility, while beachem able to do last year,” Jackson pulled himself out of the said. “so to be able and come draft may 1, deciding to re-back this year with all that turn to notre dame for his weight on our shoulders … I senior season. think it’s good for us to es­tablish our own identity and Contact Alex Carson at get back there.” acarson1@nd.edu 



PAId AdverTIsemenT 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 


SEPT. 5 Notre Dame blows out Texas, 38-3, in the 2015 season opener. 
SEPT. 12 Senior quarterback Malik Zaire leaves Virginia game with right ankle injury, causing him to miss the rest of the season. Sophomore DeShone Kizer steps in to lead the team to 34­27 comeback win. 
SEPT. 13 Women’s golf takes first place in its first tournament of the year, the Mary Fossum Invitational, winning by a margin of 14 strokes. 
SEPT. 22 Men’s golf takes first place at the Fighting Irish Golf Classic at Warren Golf Course. 
OCT.3 Notre Dame suffers first loss of the season at Clemson, 24-22, after a failed 2-point conversion attempt in the final minute of the game. 
OCT. 6 Women’s golf wins the Chip-N Club Invitational by 30 strokes, the Irish’s biggest margin of victory since 2005. 
OCT. 30 Women’s soccer defeats No. 5 Virginia Tech, 3-0, in final regular season game of the year. 
NOV. 11 Men’s soccer upsets No. 1 Wake Forest, 1-0, in the semifinals of the ACC tournament. 
NOV. 14 The Irish take down Wake Forest, 28-7, on Senior Day. The game was highlighted by a 98-yard touchdown run by Josh Adams, the longest scoring play in Notre Dame history. 
NOV. 20 Women’s soccer falls in second round of the NCAA tournament against UConn, 2-0. 
NOV. 21 Notre Dame defeats Boston College, 19-16, in the Shamrock Series at historic Fenway Park in Boston. 
NOV. 21 Senior Molly Seidel wins Notre Dame’s first individual championship since 1942 at NCAA cross country championships. 

NOV. 28 The Irish fall to Stanford, 38-36, on a field goal as time expires in Palo Alto, California. 
NOV. 29 Men’s soccer falls to Maryland, 2-1, in round of 16 in NCAA tournament at home. 
DEC. 5 Women’s basketball’s undefeated start to the season comes to an end after falling to defending NCAA champions UConn, 91-81. 
DEC. 8 Jaylon Smith wins Butkus award as nation’s top linebacker, becoming the first player to do so in high school and college since Manti Te’o. 
DEC. 10 Hockey pulls off a comeback win against Boston College, scoring three goals in the third period to win 4-3. 
DEC. 12 Junior forward Taya Reimer leaves women’s basketball team. Reimer recently announced she will transfer to Michigan State. 
JAN. 1 The Irish fall to Ohio State, 44-28, in Battlefrog Fiesta Bowl. Jaylon Smith suffers left knee injury before declaring for NFL Draft. 
JAN. 29 Head football coach Brian Kelly signs six-year contract extension to last through 2021. 
FEB. 2 Men’s basketball upsets No. 2 North Carolina, 80-76, after trailing by 11 points in the second half. 
FEB. 26 Softball defeats Central Florida, 5-1, giving Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf her 600th career win. 
FEB. 27-28 Men’s and women’s fencing take first place in ACC championships on back-to­back days for the second straight year. 
MARCH 4 Women’s basketball defeats Duke, 83-54, in the first round of the ACC championship. 
MARCH 5 Women’s basketball advances to final round of ACC tournament after defeating Miami, 78-67. 
MARCH 6 Women’s basketball wins third consecutive ACC championship, taking down Syracuse, 68-57. 
MARCH 7 Brianna Turner is named ACC Player of the Year. Muffet McGraw is named ACC Coach of the Year. 
MARCH 10 Men’s basketball comes out on top of a tight game against Duke, winning 84-79 in overtime. 
MARCH 10 Divers Lindsey Streepey and Emma Gaboury qualify for NCAA championship. 
MARCH 11 Men’s basketball faces UNC for the second time on the season, losing 78-47 in the quarterfinals of the ACC tournament. 
MARCH 11 Molly Seidel sets a program record after winning the 5,000-meter race of at the NCAA indoor championships, her third NCAA title in under a year. 
MARCH 12 Molly Seidel wins another NCAA title, winning the 3,000-meter race at the NCAA indoor championship, just a day after taking the title in the 5,000-meter race. Margaret Bamgbose and Kaila Barber joined Seidel by earning All-American honors at the event. 
MARCH 13 No. 1 men’s lacrosse endures its first loss of the season to No. 2 Denver in a rematch of the semifinal game of the 2015 NCAA tournament. The Irish fell 9-8 in overtime. 
MARCH 18 Men’s basketball takes down Michigan, 70-63, in the first round of the NCAA tournament at Barclay’s Center in Brooklyn, New York. 
MARCH 19 Women’s basketball defeats North Carolina A&T, 95-61, in the first round of the NCAA tournament at Purcell Pavilion. 
MARCH 20 Men’s basketball narrowly survives in the second round of the NCAA Tournament, defeating Stephen F. Austin, 76-75, on a last-second tip-in by freshman guard Rex Pflueger. 
MARCH 21 Women’s basketball advances to the Sweet 16 after knocking out Indiana, 87-70. 
MARCH 24 Justin Plaschka sets new school record in the 50-yard freestyle race at the NCAA swimming championships in Atlanta. 
MARCH 25 Men’s basketball earns second consecutive trip to the Elite Eight with a close win over Wisconsin, 61-56. 
MARCH 25 Stanford shocks women’s basketball after defeating the first-seeded Irish, 90-84, in the Sweet 16 in Lexington, Kentucky. 
MARCH 25 Hockey falls to Michigan, 3-2, in overtime of the first round of the NCAA championship tournament. 
MARCH 25 Softball’s 19 game winning streak comes to an end after losing to Syracuse, 5-2. 
MARCH 27 Men’s basketball’s NCAA tournament run comes to an end after falling to UNC, 88-74, in the Elite Eight. 
APRIL 8 Men’s tennis upsets No. 1 North Carolina on Senior Day at Courtney Tennis Center. 
APRIL 12 Women’s swimming head coach and interim men’s swimming coach Mike Litzinger is announced as head coach for both teams. 
APRIL 28 Women’s lacrosse defeats Louisville, 12-10, in the first round of the ACC tournament. 
APRIL 29 Women’s lacrosse falls to Syracuse in the second round of the ACC tournament, 9-5, ending their tournament run. 
APRIL 29 Men’s lacrosse is eliminated from the ACC tournament in the first round, losing to Duke, 10-9, in overtime. 
MAY 3 Matt Landis is named ACC Defensive Player of the Year for the second consecutive year. Ryder Garnsey is named ACC Freshman of the Year. 



Following a disap­pointing NCAA tour­nament in 2012, Notre Dame advanced to the College Cup the next season and bested Maryland in the final, 2-1, to win its first NCAA championship. The vic­tory also marked the first national title for Irish coach Bobby Clark in his 27th season as a college coach. 
Notre Dame accept­ed an invitation to join the ACC in every sport except football, after having been a mem­ber of the Big East since 1995. 
As part of the agree­ment, Notre Dame committed to playing five games annually against ACC oppo­nents in football start­ing in 2014. 
Senior middle lineback­er Manti Te’o finished sec­ond in the Heisman Tro­phy voting behind Texas A&M redshirt freshman QB Johnny Manziel. 
Te’o ended with 321 first-place votes behind Manziel’s 474. Te’o tied for second-most intercep­tions in the NCAA with seven and tallied 113 tackles in his senior sea­son. 





Irish undefeated in regular season; streak ends Jan. 7, 2013 
In Irish head coach Brian Kelly’s first two years, Notre Dame turned in a pair of 8-5 seasons. 
Despite losing players to the NFL, the Irish were more success­ful in Kelly’s third season, going undefeated against their regular season schedule. 
Regular season highlights in­cluded a rout of Navy in Dublin, Ireland, a 20-3 upset of Michigan State, an emotional 13-6 victory over Michigan, an overtime goal-line stand against Stanford, a road victory over Oklahoma and a come-from-behind three-overtime win over Pittsburgh. 
The Irish reached No. 1 in the polls after a Senior Day victory over Wake Forest and sealed a berth in the BCS National Champi­onship game with a 22-13 victory 


A Final Four ap­pearance in 2015 was the fifth in a row for the Irish, and a win over South Carolina gave Notre Dame its fourth championship game berth in five years. 
In the title game, the Irish fell to Connecticut for the third year, this time by a score of 63­53 at the Analie Arena in Tampa. 
over USC on Nov. 24. 
Traveling to Miami to face off against Alabama in the national championship game, the Irish struggled to contain the Crimson Tide’s offense, as Alabama rolled out to a 28-0 lead at halftime. 
In the end, Notre Dame fell to the Crimson Tide, 42-14, end­ing the program’s first national title run since 1988. 

Following a historic run in 2015, the Irish re­turned to the Elite Eight after finishing the regu­lar season 24-12 in 2016. 
Notre Dame was the only team in the Elite Eight to make it that far each of the last two seasons. The Irish squeaked by Stephen 
F. Austin in the second round with a last second tip-in. 



As part of the larg­est building project in Notre Dame history, Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick announced Notre Dame Stadium would be expanded. As part of the project, new academic and athletic facilities will be added onto Notre Dame Sta­dium. The project is set to be completed by the fall of 2017. 

After going 11-5 in the 2014 regu­lar season, the Irish plowed through postseason oppo­nenets to capture the ACC title and ad­vance to the champi­onship game in the NCAA tournament. 
Playing for the title in Baltimore against Duke, Notre Dame fell, 11-9. 




The Irish defeated Michigan, 3-1, to win their third CCHA championship. 
Notre Dame then fell to St. Cloud State in the first round of the NCAA tournament. 
Notre Dame moved to Hockey East after the 2012-2013 season and will be joining the Big Ten starting with the 2016-2017 season. 

Senior Molly Seidel won the 5,000-me­ter and 3,000-meter events in March, the NCAA cross country title in November and the 10,000-meter event in the NCAA track and field championships in June 2015. 
The 2016 NCAA track and field cham­pionships will take place June 8. 

PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 




ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL | 32-2, 16-0 Acc 

Irish fall short of returning to Final Four 
and junior forward Taya reimer 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Associate sports editor left the team just nine games into the season. 
entering this year’s ncAA Yet, the Irish kept stride, drop-tournament, notre dame had ping only one game during the been to the Final Four in five regular season, and seemingly consecutive seasons. And after turning every obstacle they faced another sweep of Acc regular into another stepping stone on its season and tournament titles, a path to another no. 1 seed in the sixth straight trip appeared in-ncAA tournament. evitable for the Irish. “It had a huge positive impact 
but then, the unthinkable hap-on the team,” mcGraw said of the pened: the no. 1-seeded Irish fell team’s early challenges. “I think to no. 4-seeded stanford, 90-84, they handled the adversity bet-in the sweet 16, bringing an stun-ter than I thought they would. ning end to notre dame’s season. … It just seemed like it was one 
most people would consider thing after the other, and they such an early exit from the ncAA just kept on fighting, and I was tournament the spoiler of what so proud of the way they handled could otherwise be considered the adversity.” a strong season. but that wasn’t Perhaps the greatest challenge the case for Irish head coach the Irish faced was playing a muffet mcGraw. stretch of games without its lead­

“definitely a successful sea-ing scorer and rebounder, rising son,” mcGraw said. “We went junior forward brianna Turner. through it with just one loss [and] The eventual Acc Player of the think we had a really close bond Loyd’s departure and the injury players — cable, huffman and won the Acc tournament and Year suffered a shoulder injury in terms of our team chemistry, to Patberg, but mcGraw thought senior guard michaela mabrey regular season for the third con-prior to notre dame’s trip to the and I think they knew that every-they more than delivered for the — played their final game in blue secutive year. bahamas over Thanksgiving. body had to be ready every single team. and gold in the loss, and mcGraw 
“ … We had some individual Although the injury threat-night, and they were.” “I think they’re very talented,” said the team will miss what they successes as well. I can appreci-ened to require season-ending That confidence led to a 31-1 mcGraw said of mabrey and brought to the court each and ev­ate them looking back on them surgery, Turner would only miss regular season, including anoth-ogunbowale. “both of them were ery game. now, and the fact that we lost six games. during that stretch, er perfect 16-0 record in Acc play. mcdonald’s All-Americans com-“They were phenomenal, and, earlier than we wanted to in the the Irish went 5-1 while play-The Irish were led largely by their ing in, and again, the departure honestly, the toughest thing ncAA tournament doesn’t take ing four games against ranked offense, which ranked eighth in of Jewell and the unexpected in-to replace is the intangibles away from the fact that it was a opponents. They fell to the the nation in points per game jury to [Patberg] opened up some that they brought to the team,” really good season. We were, of eventual national champion, and second and third in 3-point spots for the guards to play, and mcGraw said. “not just leader-course, really disappointed, and connecticut, 91-81, Uconn’s and overall field goal percent-they certainly were ready. We ship — which was great — but I think it’s going to motivate us in smallest margin of victory en age, respectively. but the offense told them to be ready back in the their toughness, their sense of a good way for next year.” route to an undefeated season. didn’t revolve around one player, spring when Jewell decided to go urgency, their poise, their expe­
despite being a perennial title The Irish also secured wins over as it often did last season through to the draft, so I think they came rience and they just knew what contender, the Irish (33-2, 16-0 ohio state, UcLA and dePaul, all Loyd. rather, the Irish had four in knowing ‘A lot is expected of to do in every situation and Acc) entered the season with of whom finished in the top-20 of players average double-figures in us, so we need to be ready,’ and knew how to handle every situa­questions due to the early depar-the season’s final AP Poll. scoring and had seven different they were. They both had great tion. They just brought all those ture of former guard Jewell Loyd “It was a fabulous stretch for players led the team in scoring in years, and I was really pleased. things to our team, and without 
— the team’s leading scorer the us, and I thought it gave us a lot at least one game throughout the We wouldn’t have been as suc-them, we’re going to struggle in previous season — who would go of confidence,” mcGraw said. year, demonstrating the team’s cessful without them.” some areas next year. You can on to be the top pick in this past “In fact, we probably gained ability to come together and re-And once all those pieces came replace points and rebounds, but year’s WnbA draft. Then, adver-as much confidence from that, place the superstar it lost in Loyd. together into their roles, the trying to replace the intangibles sity continued to strike the team, playing without bri and win-“really, it was that kind of Irish rotation was able to find its that they brought to our team is as freshman guard Ali Patberg ning — I think that’s probably year where you just needed ev-rhythm and produce all the way early on going to be difficult and tore her AcL in training camp what really brought us together. I erybody, and everybody played through the Acc tournament. put a lot of pressure on people to 
a really good role, so everybody “I think it just happens natu-get out of their comfort zone.” contributed, and we wouldn’t rally as you go throughout the As the Irish look ahead to next have been the same team with-season,” rising senior guard season, they will be returning out any of them,” mcGraw said. Lindsay Allen said on march 14 plenty of talent and bringing in 
In particular, the team had on how the rotation came togeth-even more with its two top-15 to rely upon contributions from er during the year. “At first, we’re recruits, forward erin boley and players who were thrust into still kinda getting used to how guard Jackie Young. The key to larger roles from the previous the rotation is during games, how translating that talent into a win-season, such as graduate stu-coach is subbing, who’s first off ning season, however, will lie in dent guard madison cable and the bench, who’s the defensive finding players who can bring senior guard hannah huffman, group, who’s the offensive group, those same intangibles that they mcGraw added. and kind of just figuring out how lost in this year’s senior class. 
“It was a lot of fun to watch each of us fits in the offense. but “We’re hoping it develops people blossom,” mcGraw said. once you have that settled, it’s in the summer, and certainly “You saw madison cable come kind of just like it’s a seamless [Lindsay Allen] will take the up and have a year that no one rotation. We’re getting on transi-brunt of that responsibility — I expected from her — to be mvP tion, and everyone knows what mean, she did quite a bit this of the conference tournament, the other person is gonna do out year,” mcGraw said. “she will be to be our second leading scorer, there on the court. We’re run-alone initially, so the question is to be someone who made so ning in transition, we’re really ‘Who’s going to step up?’, and I many big plays and may not have just flowing offensively and de-think that entire class of [rising] had that opportunity had Jewell fensively as we grow throughout juniors [will] — we’ve got four re-come back. And to see our seniors the season, so it’s been great to ally solid juniors who have some 
— hannah huffman had a great see.” leadership potential. I think it’s year. We just had so many people And that seamless rotation going to be interesting, and we’re come out and overachieve to re-found success all the way until going to have to guide them and place what we lost, and it was a it met stanford in the sweet 16. give them some help to bring that fun year.” A slow first half defensively put leadership out because I think 
The Irish also had to count the Irish in a hole that they were they’re all capable of doing some on their two freshmen guards, unable to crawl their way back of the work and helping Lindsay.” marina mabrey and Arike out of in the second half, falling ogunbowale, to step up and have just short of a comeback in the Contact Ben Padanilam at an immediate impact due to 90-84 defeat. Three notre dame bpadanil@nd.edu 




The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

BASEBALL | 26-20, 10-12 Acc 

nd looks to take next step toward ncAA elite 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 
Assistant managing editor 
coming off its first ncAA tournament berth since 2006, notre dame entered the 2016 season ready to start estab­lishing itself in the national landscape. 
With eight games remain­ing in the regular season, the Irish (26-20, 10-12 Acc) have established themselves as a consistent presence in the upper tier of the rank­ings, but they are still search­ing to crack into the elite ranks, both nationally and in conference. 
notre dame is just 3-10 against teams ranked in the top 30 nationally, and that re­cord drops to just 1-9 against top-10 opponents. All of those top-10 losses have come at the hands of Acc opponents: The Irish were swept in road series against no. 5 Louisville and no. 6 Florida state be­fore taking one of three from no. 12 north carolina state. notre dame then dropped a game to no. 4 miami at Frank eck stadium. 
The Irish have largely taken care of the rest of their com­petition, however: notre dame is 23-10 against teams outside of the top 30, includ­ing a 17-6 mark since march 22. 
even in losses to high-quality competition, the Irish have been close to making the jump to college baseball’s elite. Two losses against Louisville were by a single run as was one against Florida state, and the Irish jumped out to a 5-0 lead over the seminoles in the series fi­nale before being burned by the big inning in an 11-5 loss. 
“I think you just compete and try to compete at as high a level as you can on every pitch,” Irish head coach mik Aoki said of working to get wins against top-tier com­petition. “I think we’ve had the misfortune of playing teams as solid as Louisville or Florida state or an nc state … I’m not saying that it’s fair or unfair, but we’ve played them on the road. And in this con­ference, playing on the road versus playing at home seems to make a big difference when you look at records around the league. 
“… We’ve gotta understand that you just go play baseball, doesn’t matter where it is.” 
The Irish have also been bolstered by an infusion of youth into the lineup this season, led by freshman jack-of-all-trades matt vierling. vierling has established him­self in the clean-up spot in the Irish lineup while hit­ting .273 with five home runs and 27 rbIs, third on the team. The freshman has also, on two separate occasions, come in in relief in the later innings of a game and then given himself, and his team, the walk-off victory. The first instance was a walk-off home run against niagara on march 6 in the UsA baseball-Irish classic, and the second came on a bases-loaded single to defeat central michigan on April 20. 
Utility player nick Podkul has also made his presence felt for the Irish after estab­lishing himself as a regular in the lineup. The freshman is batting .295 while reach­ing base at a .430 clip, good for second among starters. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
sophomore outfielder Jake shepski has also forced his way into the starting rotation by batting .307 and leading the team with seven home runs and a .561 slugging percentage. 
“They’ve bought into the idea that we just try to be as good as we can from pitch to pitch,” Aoki said. “I think they’ve bought into the idea that your work and your prep­aration is what gives you con­fidence to be able to make a transition from high school to college. … matt vierling’s been really good, [freshman infielder] cole daily’s been really good, nick Podkul has been really good for us. [shepski] has had a bit of a breakthrough year for us. I think [freshman right-hand­er] connor hock has come on really well at the end of the season.” 
second baseman cavan biggio has been the stand­out for notre dame so far, though. The junior leadoff hitter is batting .331, tied for the team lead among start­ers and also boasts a .493 on-base percentage — 23rd nationally — behind a team-high 47 walks, which is more than double the next Irish player’s total — vierling with 19 — and is tied for sixth nationally. 
“… my job, obviously, first of all, is to get on base, try and get something going early on, but also try and get the pitch­er to throw all of his pitches so guys behind me can see what he has,” biggio said. “… my grandpa always told me a walk’s as good as a hit, so getting on base is a big key to winning.” 
notre dame wraps up its regular season by hosting no. 13 LsU on Tuesday and Wednesday during senior Week, followed by a road se­ries against no. 19 north carolina on Friday, saturday and sunday and then a home series against no. 22 clemson the following weekend. Acc tournament action begins may 24 while ncAA regional play is slated to begin June 3 if the Irish qualify for further postseason action. 
Contact Zach Klonsinski at zklonsin@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


HOCKEY | 19-11-7, 15-5-2 hocKeY eAsT 

Veteran core, youth carry Irish back to NCAAs 
his team did a great job keeping 
By ZACH KLONSINSKI 

Assistant managing editor them in check all game. “I thought diPauli and his notre dame thawed out its line with Anders bjork and [se­spot in the ncAA tournament nior center and team captain] this season, but the team’s steven Fogarty did a great job stay was short-lived as it lost against — they matched up in an instant classic to rival against the top line the whole michigan, falling 3-2 in over-game,” Jackson said. “It wasn’t time on march 25. my matchup, it was [michigan After the Wolverines jumped head coach red berenson’s] out to a 1-0 lead midway matchup, but they did a great through the first period, Irish job against them. They scored a sophomore left wing Anders couple goals, and they didn’t get bjork sniped the Wolverine net-scored on until the very end.” minder on a 2-on-1 with just In the end, though, the ccm under five minutes left in the line made the winning play as opening frame. compher sent a no-look back­notre dame took a 2-1 lead hand pass to motte in front of just 24 seconds into the sec-a wide-open Irish net 8:19 into ond period when bjork set up the overtime period. senior center Thomas diPauli “Frankly, the last game of the for a knuckling one-timer from year to me, even though we lost the top of the left circle, and the it, I thought we played michigan Irish controlled much of the toe-to-toe,” Jackson said. “ … It victory. guys. … I think it caught up to us line while junior Justin Wade flow of the game for the rest of was probably the one game that Irish sophomore goalie cal a little bit from a fatigue stand-and freshman Luke ripley es-the middle period. gave me hope going into next Petersen made 32 saves in the point … but even so, I think it tablished themselves as physi­michigan sophomore defen-year that we finally figured it game, including four big ones left a little bit of a bad taste in cal presences in the defensive seman Zach Werenski blasted out. We did things the right way. late in the third period or over-their mouth because they had zone. the equalizer from the point I’m talking not tactically neces-time to keep his team in the been playing pretty well. That’s “I think that we turned the midway through the third, sarily, but we knew how we had game. probably what got us off to at corner this past year after los­though, setting the stage for to play, and that was encourag-Jackson said walking into the least the right mindset going ing that game to harvard [4-1 overtime. ing for me. We played against locker room after the last game into the next year.” on november 27],” Jackson said. “I thought that michigan the team that had the best line of the season is always hard bjork led the youthful charge “That was a good measuring game, we certainly could have in country, best offense in the knowing the seniors are taking for the Irish. The sophomore stick for us as far as the elite level won that game, and I was just country, best power play in the off their jerseys for the last time, won a bronze medal with teams that we were going to see happy with the way we played country. We stayed out of the but he said talking to this year’s Team UsA at the IIhF World throughout the year. but that’s that game,” Irish head coach penalty box. We kept our shifts group was particularly difficult. Junior championships in when we started that streak Jeff Jackson said in the hockey short. I thought we did a really “Those kids were very close, helsinki in late december and too, to where the confidence of office at compton Family Ice good job of containing their top and I think it was almost a cumu-early January. The mequon, the team got better and cal got Arena on may 4. “We should line without doing it with in-lative effort — although steven Wisconsin, native tallied three into a real good streak in goal. I have won it. We had two or three tent, necessarily. We just did it Fogarty did a great job of kind goals, including two in Team think that’s where it started.” chances to score in the third by the way we played.” of batting down the hatches as UsA’s bronze-medal win over Petersen started every game period and in overtime that we The showdown was the first far as getting our culture back sweden. in net for the Irish this year, just couldn’t finish, and it took a meeting between the two in line — but I think it was the bjork scored in five straight posting a 2.20 goals against av-great play by one of their guys to schools since a 3-1 Irish victory group as a whole, with [senior games when he returned to erage and .927 save percentage finish the game.” over the Wolverines in the fi-defenseman] Andy ryan and campus en route to amassing and one shutout. senior walk-The Wolverines boasted the nal cchA championship game [senior left wing] sam herr, [se-a 10-game point streak and es-on goalie nick stasack also top offense in college hockey in 2013, and the first in the nior left wing] mario Lucia and tablishing himself as a center-made a save in two appearances last season, highlighted by the ncAA tournament since calle diPauli,” Jackson said. “Those piece of the Irish offense. totaling 4:57 to finish his colle­ccm line of forwards juniors JT ridderwall sent the Irish to the five guys did a really good job of bjork’s return also helped fuel giate career with a perfect 1.000 compher and Tyler motte and national championship game controlling the young team that a 12-game unbeaten stretch save percentage. hobey baker finalist freshman in 2009 with his overtime tally we had. They got those young from late november to late notre dame announced the Kyle connor, but Jackson said to lift notre dame to the 5-4 guys to buy in, and, once they January where the Irish went hockey program will be leav­bought in, I thought that’s when 9-0-3. After a 4-0 loss to boston ing hockey east for the big Ten we really turned the corner. college ended the streak, notre at the end of the 2016-2017 sea-They did a good job of keeping dame rattled off four straight son just two days before the even-keeled, and, at the same wins to push it to a 13-1-3 re-michigan game. The Irish will time, they did a great job for us cord over 17 games that vaulted join the Wolverines as well as on the ice.” the Irish as high as no. 7 in the michigan state, ohio state, After missing out on national polls. Wisconsin, minnesota and postseason action in 2014-2015, “I thought, like when Anders Penn state in the conference. It Jackson said his team entered bjork came back from the na-will be the first program from this season hungry to return tional junior team, I thought notre dame to ever compete in to the national stage. The mo-that he was on fire for probably the big Ten. mentum actually started build-about a month,” Jackson said. Jackson said this season ing down the stretch of last “but a lot of the other guys, the bodes well for the future of the season, Jackson said, when the young guys on the blue line es-program, but he added it will be Irish closed the regular sea-pecially, and then some of the hard to replace the senior class. son with a 5-2-2 stretch and sophomore forwards — guys “We were still two-thirds of an then bounced back from a loss like [center] Jake evans, [cen-underclass team, and now those against massachusetts in the ter] connor hurley, along with guys are going to be expected as longest college hockey game bjork — I thought they start-juniors and sophomores to el-in history to win the next two ed having real solid years for evate,” Jackson said. “Although games and clinch the win in the sophomores.” the biggest hole is going to be opening round of the hockey bjork led the Irish with 35 replacing that senior class, and east tournament. points on the season — 12 goals almost more from a locker room “That was probably when that and 23 assists — while evans perspective than on the ice. sophomore class — the fresh-(8-25-33) and diPauli (14-18-32) … The void in the locker room man class at that time — really helped complete the balanced is going to be the big question started coming into their own a Irish attack. mark going into next year, from little bit of that time of the year,” defensemen sophomore a leadership perspective.” Jackson said. “They started de-Jordan Gross tallied 31 points veloping confidence and that’s on nine goals and 22 assists to Contact Zach Klonsinski at what you happens with young lead the offense from the blue zklonsin@nd.edu 


PAId AdverTIsemenT 


Young players impress as Irish head to postseason 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 
SOFTBALL | 39-10, 13-7 Acc 
state, it just reminds you, ‘You 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor know what? When we play well, and when we’re doing things well, 
Irish sophomore right fielder we can beat anybody,’” Irish head 
bailey bigler stepped up to the coach deanna Gumpf said. “It 
plate late in the afternoon on April doesn’t matter who we play. That’s 
3. There were two outs in the bot-been our m.o. all year: When we tom of seventh and final inning play well, we can beat anybody.” against then-no. 9 Florida state, The victory gave notre dame its and the scoreboard read 4-4. 26th victory of the season, and it 
Junior infielder Kimmy sullivan remains the seminoles’ only Acc 
stood on second base as bigler loss to date. The next weekend, the 
waited for the 1-1 pitch. sullivan Irish beat Pittsburgh; Two week-
took off sprinting as bigler lofted ends after the Florida state win, 
a ball to shallow center field. The the Irish swept Acc rival virginia 
Florida state defenders could not Tech in blacksburg, virginia, to 
catch up to the bloop single and catapult themselves to third place 
sullivan scored, giving notre in the conference. 
dame (39-10, 13-7 Acc) a 5-4 walk-“[We had] great pitching and, 
off victory. honestly, hitting when we needed 
“beating a team like Florida people to step up,” Gumpf said of 

PAId AdverTIsemenT 


the virginia Tech sweep. “We had big hits in those games, big two-out hits. so we were able to put runs on when we needed to and pitchers who kept us in the ball game.” 
before their Acc slate, the Irish started the season with a string of tournaments in Arizona, california and Florida, often play­ing five games in the span of three or four days. In their first 19 games, the Irish went 16-3, including a re-sume-building win over then-no. 8 UcLA on February 20. 
“That time of the year is sup­posed to give us confidence ... and [help us] to know what we’re capable of doing,” Gumpf said. “When we’re behind, knowing we’re capable of coming back — we did that a lot early. When we’re rolling, being able to shut the door. Playing that strong schedule early, that’s what it’s all about.” 
during the opening slate of games, Gumpf also reached a personal milestone, notching her 600th career victory on February 26 against central Florida. 
The early season success ignit­ed the Irish to a 19-game winning streak from late February to late march. Leading the way for the Irish during the winning streak was junior center fielder and co-captain Karley Wester. 
Wester currently leads the Irish in batting average and hits at .447 and 80, respectively. Gumpf said Wester is a big reason the Irish are currently ranked no. 19 in the nation. 
“Karley Wester was an All-American her freshman year,” Gumpf said. “If she’s not having a great year, then we’re scratch­ing our head. It’s just what she’s capable of. she can do so many different things, she’s three di­mensional, she has so much speed and grit. I love watching her play the game.” 
however, Karley is not the only Wester on the team. Joining her sister in her first season at notre dame is freshman second base­man Ali Wester. Ali headlines a strong group of freshman for the Irish. Four freshman — Wester, designated player caitlyn brooks, third baseman melissa rochford and catcher maddie mccracken 
— have stepped into the starting lineup for the Irish this season. 
“We’ve had very few games where haven’t been able to depend on them,” Gumpf said. “When you’re a freshman and you’re that dependable, it really shows what you’re capable of and who you can grow to be on this team.” 
After winning two out of three games against north carolina state last weekend, the Irish will compete in the Acc champion­ship’s opening round Thursday against virginia Tech in raleigh, north carolina. 
Contact Marek Mazurek at  mmazurek@nd.edu 


ND VOLLEYBALL | 7-25, 2-18 Acc 

Irish make progress but struggle to find footing 
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports Writer 
The 2015 season was un­doubtedly a difficult one for the Irish. 
notre dame (7-25, 2-18 Acc) struggled against al­most every opponent in the fall. Irish head coach Jim mcLaughlin acknowledged that the season was a disap­pointment, but also an im­portant learning experience. 
“did we meet our goals? no,” mcLaughlin said. “Any time you win seven match­es, it’s a difficult year. but you learn from it. As bad as it was, the girls kept fighting and working to get better. We made progress — there’s just a lot more to make. You’ve got to become good before you become great. but it was a very, very tough year.” 
The Irish had a strong spring season and made ma­jor improvements, which sheds some promising light on what is to come next fall. According to mcLaughlin, the spring season provided an opportunity for the team to work as a coherent unit. 
“We made a huge jump in the spring,” mcLaughlin said. “The team is chang­ing and the girls are chang­ing. more wins are going to come. For some reason, things started to click — we started to get a return. When that happened, the girls started working even harder. In 27 years as a head coach, this was one of the best springs in terms of where we started and where we finished. We were able to push the kids harder, and they wanted that. 
“We started to play vol­leyball the way you should play volleyball here at notre dame. The girls were com­mitted at a higher level. We became a better volleyball team. We say this all the time — great teams talk dur­ing the play, not in between the plays. The conversation has started to become more meaningful. You’ve got to get the vibe right, which is about saying and doing things that make each other better. That area is as im­portant as anything we do technically and tactically.” 
As a whole, mcLaughlin considers the team’s abil­ity reduce mistakes one of its most significant improvements. 
“When you’re a better team, you make fewer er­rors,” mcLaughlin said. “You can never play the game perfectly, and the girls understand that now. but we and we have to validate are learning at a better rate, those expectations every so we’ve reduced the num-day by improving and get­ber of errors. We are playing ting better,” mcLaughlin a cleaner brand of volley-said. “but, we want to win ball. We are a team that can the Acc. That’s the deal play for longer rallies and here. And we want to get to not make as many errors. the final four. but, to get That puts a lot of pressure there, we’ve got to improve on the opponent.” today. And if we keep doing 


Looking forward, the Irish that and moving forward, have set their eyes on the we’re going to get down the prize. With the improve-road and look back, and ments his team has made, we’re going to wake up and mcLaughlin considers his we’re going to have won the goals plausible as long as Acc.” the Irish keep progressing. 
“The goals are lofty and Contact Elizabeth Greason at the expectations are rising, egreason@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


FENCING 

ND men’s and women’s squads win ACC titles 
going undefeated, led by se-
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 
sports Writer nior epeeist catherine Lee 
and freshman standout foilist 
Promise is one word that Irish sabrina massialas, both of head coach Gia Kvaratskhelia whom garnered individual uses often when describing conference titles. The Irish this past year’s squad. also won three individual 
The men’s and women’s men’s crowns in Acc com-squads went 32-3 and 35-0, petition, and the men’s and respectively, and they won women’s teams defended their many medals at Acc cham-conference championship pionships. notre dame team title for the second consecu­did not, however, come out tive year. Kvaratskhelia said he on top in national competi-was disappointed with notre tion as it had hoped. overall, dame’s 5th-place finish in the Kvaratskhelia said this year’s ncAA tournament but feels team was unique and hard to confident that there is room to compare to others. grow. 

“I think talent-wise, we “From the get go, we knew were as good as anyone,” that the team was really Kvaratskhelia said. “but we young and inexperienced,” still have to have enough Kvaratskhelia said. “having bouting, enough years of ex-a majority freshmen ... and perience to compete at a high sophomore lineup, we knew level. It’s hard to differenti-that we would have some con-[freshman] Amanda sirico in foil. Kvaratskhelia said he to win the ncAA title, granted ate this team from my others, sequential problems down the and [junior] hazem Khazbak. looks forward to Khazbak, that everything goes well and other than that lack of experi-road. missing the upperclassmen sirico and Kiefer returning to injury does not occur. This ence. The entire theme was to “Those were amplified by with that caliber of athleticism the Irish squad this fall. team will have a talent and ex-get them to the point to learn the olympics. We had three and knowledge of the sport re-“There’s a really huge hope perience now we didn’t have the ropes of the ncAA compe-olympic hopefuls taking a ally hurt us at the end.” for next year, with the addition before to contest for the high­tition and set the stage for the year off, and one of them Five current or former Irish of a great recruiting class and est medals in competition.” next few years.” was a three-time national student-athletes will represent the return of our olympians,” 
highlights of the season champion [junior Lee Kiefer]. Team UsA in the rio olympics Kvaratskhelia said. “I think Contact Maureen Schweninger included the women’s team That’s a huge loss, along with this summer, including Kiefer we will be one of the favorites at mschweni@nd.edu 

ROWING 

Irish look to finish season on high note 


By ALEX BENDER 
sports Writer 
For notre dame, the mind­set has been constant the entire season — focus on getting better and continue to put in effort. 
All season Irish head coach martin stone has told his team to not worry about how other teams performed because he wanted his team to focus on what it could control, he said. sticking with this motto is paying off at the right time, stone said, because the team is beginning to hit its stride as it heads into the biggest stretch of the season with Acc and ncAA champion­ships coming up. 
The Irish have faced tough competition all year and they have performed well, climbing to no. 15 nation­ally. stone said he is not surprised by his team’s per­formance, however, noting his team’s drive towards constant improvement. 
“I expected we were going to be in a good place com­ing into the season,” stone said. “The fall indicated to me that we had some speed on the water and we put in tremendous effort all year long. We continued through­out the season to continue to push ourselves to get better, so I feel upbeat and positive about the team as we head into this stretch.” 
The team is com­ing off a strong finish in the dale england cup in bloomington, Indiana, where the Irish came from behind in the afternoon session to claim first by tie­breaker over duke and no. 14 Indiana. For many mem­bers of the team, this served as a real standout perfor­mance and has them confi­dent heading into the back end of the season. 
senior ellen Gleadow said she was proud of her team for coming back despite a rocky start to the day. 
“The race that stands out to me is the second race on saturday at the dale england regatta in bloomington,” Gleadow said. “my boat had lost to Indiana in the morn­ing session by 0.3 seconds. Indiana was ranked a few places above us going into the race and they clearly thought that they had proved themselves. We had another chance to beat them in the afternoon, and we were pret­ty mad about losing by such a small margin. 
“The boat really rallied together and we ended up beating them by about two seconds. At the end of the day, the teams were tied for points for the overall trophy and the [first varsity 8-boat] margin was the tie breaker. being able to bring home the cup just added to the satis­faction of beating [Indiana] after they had beat us.” 
As the team moves for­ward, they will look to build of the success of the dale england cup and turn it into strong performance at both the Acc championships as well as the ncAA champi­onships. The Acc cham­pionships will be held this weekend in clemson, south carolina, while the ncAA championships will take place at the end of may in sacramento, california. 
Contact Alex Bender at  abender@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

seidel wins title, clevenger leads men’s squad 
By MAREK MAZUREK 
sports editor 
Led by a strong freshman class and senior All-American molly seidel, notre dame raced to its best finish in over a decade as the Irish women finished eighth in the nation at the ncAA championships. 
“I think that’s the goal of any coach at notre dame, to put your best team on the course,” Irish associate head coach matthew sparks said. “Women’s cross country and men’s cross country are programs we feel can compete on a national level here. We finally got to where we’d like to be year in and year out.” 
In leading the women’s team to the eighth-place finish, seidel won the individual champi­onship, giving notre dame its first national champion in cross country since 1942. 
Joining seidel atop the lead­erboard was freshman Anna rohrer, who finished sixth after leading the pack with seidel for most of the race. In the last thou­sand meters, however, seidel pulled away from the rest of the competition. 
“I went into it with a mental­ity of I wanted to run from the front and just be aggressive,” seidel said. “Until you cross the finish line, you never know whether someone’s going to be coming up, you never get lax, you never get complacent, but I was definitely feeling confident throughout that race, and I felt very in control of the situation. That gave me a lot of strength to go hard and just push hard from the front.” 
From the start of the season, the women’s team faced high ex­pectation as the Irish brought in a highly-touted freshman class which was ranked the top class in the nation, per FloTrack. 
“We had the roster from the start of the year, and everybody just had to do their jobs day in and day out,” sparks said. “That’s what put us where we wanted to be — everybody tak­ing care of themselves, knowing what they needed to do from day one. The neat thing about that is we were such a young team with three or four freshman in our top-seven. Those freshman came in with lofty goals, and we were able to work towards and achieve those goals.” 
The Irish started the season close to home as the team’s first three meets took place in Indiana, including the national catholic championship and the Joe Piane notre dame Invitational held at notre dame Golf course. sparks said he liked having two home meets earlier in the season to give his younger runners a chance to get acclimated to the college racing environment. 
“That’s a big component of our schedule,” sparks said. “It gives the younger kids on the team a chance to start the year off with­in the friendly confines of basi­cally walking across campus to your home course. especially with the younger girls and guys we had ... it’s still a comforting factor to know it is on your home course, the same place we run two or three days a week.” 
on oct. 30, the Irish competed in the Acc championships, with the women placing third and the men placing sixth. Two weeks later, the team moved on to the ncAA regional competition, where the women qualified for the ncAA championships. 
The men’s team did not make it to the ncAA champion­ship race, but senior michael clevenger qualified individu­ally and achieved All-American status, coming in 38th. 
What clevenger’s final time doesn’t show, however, is the fact that the decatur, Illinois, native moved up nearly 25 spots in the final stretch of the race to get the All-American honor. 
“I saw him with about a mile to go and he looked pretty stagnant in about 60th place,” sparks said. “I didn’t get to see the last five minutes of the race, and I get [to the finish line] and people are telling me he’s an All-American. ... I [thought] they were congrat­ulating me on the women’s All-Americans. I didn’t realized he had geared down and got those guys. he’s the toughness factor, he’s got the talent factor. he’s just a great leader vocally for the men’s team. not a better guy you want leading your squad than mike clevenger.” 
Contact Marek Mazurek at mmazurek@nd.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 

Irish men’s and women’s teams impress 
By MOLLY MURPHY 
sports Writer 
With the women’s team placing fifth at the ncAA in­door championships, this sea­son has been a historic one for notre dame. 
Leading the women’s team to its fifth-place finish was senior molly seidel, who col­lected notre dame’s first individual track and field na­tional championship in wom­en’s program history in the 5,000-meter run on march 11. The next day, seidel won the ncAA championship in the 3,000-meters. 
“[seidel’s] season is defi­nitely one that is historic and for the record books,” Turner said. “Last year becoming our first individual ncAA champion and she just kept that going on a roll this year. she is the best distance run­ner we’ve had. she’s becom­ing one of the elite runners in the country with big sights on making the olympic team in the 10,000-meters. she wants to duplicate, and try to double outdoors that 10,000 title and the 5,000 for us. she is the face of the program, she has helped our recruiting, helped bring in Anna rohrer, the other young lady that we have. I can’t say enough about the things that molly’s done not only for our program but for herself and just women’s distance run­ning in general. so she’s a stu­dent athlete we’re just blessed to have on our team.” 
In addition to seidel, Turner noted the performances of graduate student Kaila barber and junior Anthony shivers, who helped the women’s and men’s teams to third and seventh place finishes at the Acc indoor championships, respectively. 
“Kaila barber made All-American in the 60-meter hurdles; that has not been her best event traditionally,” Turner said. “her twin sister [Jade barber] was our school record holder and with Kaila coming out and breaking her school record and becoming a first team All-American that was definitely a big surprise for us.” 
on the men’s side, the thrower shivers has been commended throughout the season for his breakout per­formance, making significant strides this year compared to years past. 
“I think a big contributor was sort of how I performed last season,” shivers said. “I came out, just kind of disap­pointed and kind of looking for ways to improve and be better. I knew I had to change something because what I was doing last year wasn’t work­ing, so I think it really had to do with little things. I just did the little things a lot better this year, whether it was eat­ing a better diet or rehabbing minor injuries better or just putting that little bit of extra effort at the end of a practice, it really sort of added up.” 
The Irish will compete in the Acc outdoor champi­onships this weekend, and Turner said he is happy with his team’s mental preparation for the conference champion­ship meet. 
“I think they grew in the fact that, they come into competi­tions and they expect to win,” Turner said. “A lot of times the country and beat them?’ before we were getting better I think all the All-Americans and it was like, ‘ok we know we had this year, they just had we can beat some of these the confidence to say, ‘hey it lower ranked teams and oppo-doesn’t matter who we line up nents but can we really come against in the ncAA, I’ve got a in against the top people in chance to win this if I actually 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 

perform,’ and they just come into it with [a] much better mentality this year than years past.” 
Contact Molly Murphy at mmurph40@nd.edu 


ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


MEN’S SOCCER | 11-5-6, 4-2-2 Acc 

Strong defense pushes Irish to conference final 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 
sports Writer 
notre dame broke new ground in 2015 with a first-ever place in the Acc champi­onship game. but after falling to syracuse in that game and maryland in the ncAA tour­nament, the Irish failed to win a title of any sort for the first time since 2011. 
The Irish looked impene­trable defensively to start the season, winning four of their opening five games. From the end of August to the middle of september, the Irish did not allow a goal in eight straight games, including a 1-0 victory over Acc rival clemson in a top-10 clash. but a single goal from Xavier was enough to hand Irish head coach bobby clark’s side, then ranked no. 2, its first defeat of the sea­son, which was quickly fol­lowed by a second defeat to north carolina, where the Irish defensive consistency came to an abrupt halt in a 4-2 defeat. 
A 5-0 victory over Pittsburgh to close the regu­lar season with a 9-3-5 record gave the Irish momentum heading into the Acc tourna­ment, where they made a run to the championship game. A late goal by junior defend­er brandon Aubrey ensured the Irish defeated virginia again, before notre dame upset then-no. 1 Wake Forest on the road in front of over 5,000 spectators. but the Irish were unable to find a goal as syracuse earned a 1-0 victory in the conference title match. clark said he was impressed by his team’s run to the final and had praise for the orange. 
“I think the second half of that game went very well, but we started a little slow­ly,” clark said. “I think they played very well, they got the ball into our half, pressured us and worked very hard. They were a great team really, they made the semi-finals of the national tournament so they were very strong at the end of the season. They were arguably the best team in the country by the season’s end; they got very unlucky in the semi-final. 
“I think getting to the final of the Accs for the first time really stands out as a high­light of the season though. 
To get there, coming into a game against Wake Forest, who were no. 1 in the coun­try, at their stadium in front of a big crowd, that was a real achievement.” 
In the first round of the ncAA tournament against Tulsa, senior goalkeeper chris hubbard was the hero for the Irish. With the sides tied 1-1 after overtime, hubbard saved each of the three pen­alties he faced in the shoot­out to ensure notre dame advanced to the round of 16, but that was as far as the team would make it. The Irish fell 2-0 behind to maryland in the first half, and although a goal just before halftime and a red card for the Terrapins gave the Irish hope, clark’s team could not find the equalizer. 
After a big east champion­ship victory in 2012, a nation­al championship in 2013 and an Acc regular season title in 2014, the empty-handed sea­son was a rare event for the Irish. clark said he always hoped to win titles but was proud of how his team per­formed over the course of the season. 
“Any year you don’t win the national title is always going to be a disappointment, but I felt like this team was close to getting something,” clark said. “After winning some­thing in each of the last three years it’s a shame, but I think we were good enough to have taken something home.” 
Contact Daniel O’Boyle at doboyle1@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER | 14-5-1, 6-4-0 Acc 

notre dame’s season blighted by Acc losses 
By BEN PADANILAM 
Associate sports editor 
The Acc was the best con­ference in the ncAA this season, head and shoulders above the rest, placing five teams in the top-10 of the sea­son’s final nscAA coaches Poll, prior to the start of the ncAA tournament. 
And notre dame was one of them. 
The Irish (14-5-1, 6-4-0) worked their way to a win­ning record in nation’s best conference this past season, securing victories on the road over the likes of top-ranked virginia and even­tual national runner-up duke. but they also did their share of faltering against the Acc’s best, going just 3-3 against the conference’s ranked teams. 
“We got those games against top-10 opponents, and those games are so close,” Irish head coach Theresa romagnolo said. “They’re often separated by one individual doing something special, so some games, that was us and other games, that was somebody else. 
“I like to believe that we can win every game that we step on the field to do be­cause of our talent and our preparation, but, in some of those games, they did some­thing special to beat us or we made a mistake and we learned from it going into that next game. The sea­son is about growth, and, over the course of the year, we continued to grow, learn from our mistakes and con­tinued to get batter at a lot of things.” 
outside the conference, the Irish cruised to a re­cord of 8-1-1, securing wins over the likes of a ranked santa clara team and rivals Indiana and michigan. Their one loss? To connecticut, in the second round of the ncAA tournament, bringing an early and disappointing end to what was otherwise a strong season. 
“I think it was a good sea­son,” romagnolo said. “At a place like notre dame, you always set your sights pretty high, so, at the end, we were disappointed because we hoped we could have gone further in the ncAA tourna­ment. And that wasn’t our best game that we ended on, so that can be tough to fin­ish with a game that doesn’t represent how good you are.” 
At many times this season, the team was only as good as senior forward Anna maria Gilbertson was. she led the team with 13 goals, 29 points and 110 shots. she ranked first and fifth in shots and goals, respectively, in the conference, which meant her performance often spelled success for the Irish. 
“Anna was an unbelievable player to play with out there,” junior midfielder sandra Yu said. “she was pretty special when she was on the ball. she did some pretty incredi­ble things this season for us, but having someone like that on your team, and knowing that at any given moment they can fire a shot and score and having that weapon was incredible.” 
And although Gilbertson will be one of six seniors — including five starters — who graduates this spring, romagnolo said notre dame grew collectively this year, which is why the team was successful this season and why it will be successful next season as well. 
“over the course of the season, I was really happy with how we played and the performances that we — for the most part — put forth on the field,” romagnolo said. “We grew as a team, and we had some really incredible performances along the way. some great individuals grew and had great seasons, so on the whole I thought it was a very good season. 
“… To be honest, we’re all really excited for next season. We saw [this sea­son] that we have a lot of potential.” 
Contact Ben Padanilam at bpadanil@nd.edu 



The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

MEN’S GOLF 
Young ND roster makes strides 
By DOMINIC IANNELLI 
sports Writer 
To finish a season focused on developing a young roster, notre dame placed 10th out of 12 teams at the Acc championships. 
some premier events this spring were the Yestingsmeier match Play Invitational, national Invitational Tournament, Auburn University Tiger Invitational, border olympics and clemson Invitational. 
overall, Irish head coach Jim Kubinski could not bring him­self to call the season a success because the team did not make the ncAA tournament, which is an expectation for his team each year. 
“We’re never going to call a season when we miss out on the ncAA tournament a success,” Kubinski said. “having competed at ncAAs in 2005, 2006, 2011 and 2012 as a team and with ncAA in­dividual players in 2008 and 2014, during my tenure, we feel our place is on the national landscape come championship season.” 
however, Kubinski said he real­ized that his team is composed of all underclassmen, while all of his ncAA teams had strong senior leaders. 
“our best teams had great up­per class leadership, often seniors who had grown through their years here,” Kubinski said. “We had developing leaders this year and, of course, no senior starters. In that light, I do think we accom­plished a number of very positive things this season, especially in the last month or so. It’s those positives and continued work, which will see us back at ncAAs next season.” 
In addition to the need for the current underclassmen to step up as leaders next year, there is also a need to bolster the program with top-ranked high school talent. Kubinski said that he has been on the recruiting tail, signing three superior golfers from the 2016 class. 
“We’re adding three highly ranked incoming players, which means we’ll have the most com­petition for lineup spots come August since our back-to-back ncAA teams in 2011 and 2012,” Kubinski said. 
Looking back at this season, Kubinski said he especially liked the team’s performance at home and said he hopes that the play­ers will gain the same amount of comfort playing on the road. 
“our play at home this season really stands out,” Kubinski said. “To win our larger september tournament and the smaller field event here in April, going unde­feated at home, gives us a foun­dation. We need to take this out on the road and, to some extent, we started to see that the last two rounds at Accs.” 
According to Kubinski, there is no reason why the Irish shouldn’t be in the hunt for the ncAA tour­nament next season. he said they have all the elements neces­sary to take the team to the next level. 
“There’s no doubt our team should be an ncAA contender next season,” Kubinski said. “our goal will be a return to the national landscape. We’ll have a great deal more experience, play­ers looking to build on successes from this season, growing and improving players in the mix and three highly ranked freshmen to add to our team.” 
Contact Dominic Iannelli at  riannell@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
strong fall season fails to translate for notre dame 
By TOBIAS HOONHOUT 
sports Writer 
The Irish were a story of two halves this year, as the team finished with a stroke aver­age nearly four shots better than the program record in the fall, but stumbled this spring and finished 10th at the Acc tournament. 
In the fall, the Irish welcomed three new freshmen to the line­up. All three ended up in the starting lineup, and finished the fall as the no. 3 ranked freshmen class in the country, according to Golfstat, and played a large part in the team’s success. 
“I think the freshmen have ad­justed very well to the lifestyle of a notre dame student athlete,” Irish head coach susan holt said. “There are a lot of demands on your time academically and athletically, and they’ve all trav­elled and played from day one, so overall, I think they’ve done a great job with the transition. ... I’m excited where we’re at, and I really think this group can take over for sure.” 
Along with their record stroke average, the team won the mary Fossum Invitational in september as well as the nebraska chip-n club Invitational by 30 strokes in october. but the highlight of the season was the last tourna­ment in the fall, the Landfall Tradition, where the Irish fin­ished second amongst a com­petitive field that included 11 teams in the top 50. 
“That is one of the best colle­giate fields in the country year in and year out,” holt said. “And, this year, for us to finish second in that field out of 18 teams ... that, for sure, was the highlight, and especially with the fact that, on the last day, we shot seven-under. That round, with what was at stake, was a huge moment for our players and a really nice exclamation point on our fall season.” 
The team entered the spring looking to build on their record season, but the Irish struggled. The team didn’t win a tourna­ment, and ended up 10th out of 12 teams in the Acc tournament. 
“I wish we would’ve just played better,” holt said. “but if you look at our history, spring golf is a challenge for us, and it really is because of the weather. ... [For the Acc championship] we went in there as the five-seed, and we just had a bad first day, and that’s been kind of our struggle this spring, to put three rounds together in a tournament, and unfortunately we started poorly. 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 
... but that’s behind us now, and you learn from it, and it exposed obviously what we needed to work on.” 
despite the disappointing performances, however, a bright spot for the Irish has been senior captain Talia campbell, who has led the team both on and off the course. campbell was the high­est individual finisher for the Irish at Accs, where she finished ninth, and became the first golfer in the program’s history to finish as the top team member at four consecutive conference tournaments. 
“It’s not just this year — Talia has been a really steady, solid contributor to our program over these past four years,” holt said. “she’s not a flashy player, but she’s a very solid and consis­tent player. she makes a ton of pars, doesn’t put herself in a lot of trouble, and is just really re­ally steady. she puts in the effort and puts in the time, and I think for the underclassmen when you have a senior who hasn’t checked out [it’s a big plus].” 
Last weekend, the Irish fin­ished their season, finishing 13th in the ncAA regional in birmingham, Alabama. 
Contact Tobias Hoonhout at thoonhou@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 

Four individuals make trip to NCAA tournament 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports Writer 
notre dame began a new era in 2015-2016 as mike Litzinger began his tenure as head coach. 
“It was a great experience for my first year,” Litzinger said. “The team was crav­ing for some consistency, and leadership that could provide a long term vision. They also developed a fan­tastic work ethic that will serve them well in the com­ing years.” 
notre dame’s first sea­son under Litzinger be­gan with a victory in the dennis stark relays. In the dual meet portion of their schedule, the Irish topped michigan state, but fell on the road to Florida Gulf coast, Purdue, ohio state, Pittsburgh and virginia Tech before heading to the boilermaker Invitational for their last event of the fall semester. 
At the boilermaker Invitational, the Irish placed second, helped along by freshman Alice Treuth’s victory in the 200­yard backstroke in 1:56.56 
Following winter break, the Irish returned to action in a loss to virginia before picking a victory against northwestern, which, ac­cording to Litzinger, was a turning point in the season for the Irish. 
“I think for the women, our meet against northwestern was pivotal,” Litzinger said. “We hadn’t beaten them in the past four meetings, and on paper, they had the advantage. our women dove and swam with a real purpose — to compete — and, at the end of the day, wouldn’t be denied.” 
Following the northwestern victory, the Irish hosted the shamrock Invitational, where the 400-yard freestyle relay team broke the pool re­cord. on February 13 and 14, the Irish traveled to the michigan First chance meet to conclude their reg­ular season. 
At the Acc champion­ship meet in Greensboro, north carolina, the Irish took seventh overall. seniors Lindsey streepey and emma Gaboury, sopho­more Annie crea and fresh­man ella moynihan all earned trips to the ncAA championships during the conference meet. 

during the ncAA champi­onship meet in late march, moynihan finished in 50th in the 200-freestyle prelims and divers Gaboury and crea took 29th and 43rd, re­spectively, in the 3-meter. In the 1-meter Gaboury took 38th and streepey placed in 41st overall. 
“emma Gaboury and Lindsey streepey really stood out qualifying for the ncAA championship meet, which puts them among an elite group,” Litzinger said. 
Litzinger, who also was named the head coach of the men’s program in April, will look to provide stabil­ity moving forward for a program that has encoun­tered numerous coaching changes in recent years, he said. 
“our senior women have been through three coach­ing changes, and it has been difficult for them,” Litzinger said. “I believe if we had another year with that group, their experience would have been richer.” 
Contact Ryan Klaus at rklaus1@nd.edu 
PAId AdverTIsemenT 


MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Plaschka, relay team qualify for nationals 
By RYAN KLAUS 
sports Writer 
For the second time in three seasons, notre dame welcomed a new coach to the mix when head coach matt Tallman took an in­definite leave of absence in december. 
Tallman was replaced on an interim basis by mike Litzinger, who himself was in his first season as head coach of the women’s pro­gram. Litzinger was eventu­ally named the head coach of both programs this past April. 
An up-and-down sea­son began for the Irish in october with a first-place finish at the dennis starks relays and a dual meet home win against michigan state. In november, the Irish trav­eled to meets at Purdue, where the team placed third and virginia Tech, where notre dame took third place in a tri-dual meet. 
In January, the Irish started their spring semester slate at virginia, where the Irish fell to the cavaliers. notre dame then participated in a dual-meet with northwestern, where the Irish defeated the Wildcats, before host­ing the annual shamrock Invitational. notre dame concluded its regular sea­son slate at michigan’s First chance meet. 
At the end of February, notre dame traveled to Greensboro, north carolina, to swim in the Acc cham­pionships. In the four-day event, the Irish finished in seventh place as a team with 678 points. 
despite having a finish that was notre dame’s worst in its three-year Acc tenure, the Irish did have a number of impressive individual performances. sophomore Justin Plaschka, who quali­fied for ncAA nationals in the 100-yard butterfly and 100-yard freestyle, led the impressive individual show­ings. Plaschka also was a part of the 400-yard free­style team that qualified for the ncAA championship. 
“For our men, the Acc championship served notice that our future is bright,” Litzinger said. “every ath­lete had a personal best, and [the team] finishing the meet with a ncAA qualify­ing performance and notre dame record in the 400-yard freestyle relay was quite a statement.” 
other members of the re­lay team who traveled to Atlanta, Georgia were junior Trent Jackson and fresh­men daniel speers, Tabahn Afrik and matthew Grauslys. Grauslys replaced injured junior reed Fujan. 
At the ncAA champion­ship meet, Plaschka finish­eed in 41st in the 100-yard butterfly and 38th in the 100-yard freestyle, while the relay team finished in 20th­place overall in the 400-yard freestyle relay. 
As the page turns to next season, Litzinger is prepar­ing himself for the challeng­es associated with taking over the team full-time. 
“I am looking forward to the challenge of assembling a great coaching staff, the bringing together of alumni who have been separated since 1995, and making a statement that notre dame will be a player on the Acc and ncAA scenes in the fu­ture,” Litzinger said. 
Contact Ryan Klaus at  rklaus1@nd.edu 
Thank you to graduating Sports writers for their countless hours of service and dedication to The Observer. Congratulations and good luck! 
Greg Hadley Mary Green Kit Loughran Hunter McDaniel Brett O’Connell Brian Plamondon 
PAId AdverTIsemenT ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 




Saint Mary’s sports: year in review 
Lacrosse makes program history, tennis has best season in a decade and softball earns postseason berth 
Lacrosse “Walking off that field and look­ing up at the scoreboard is honest-
By ELIZABETH GREASON 
sports Writer ly a nightmare for me,” vanneste said. “We fought so hard that game 
saint mary’s historic season and definitely proved that we were came to a heartbreaking end after the better team; we just struggled the belles came out on the wrong to find the net.” side of a tie-breaker for the mIAA The belles are already setting tournament. higher goals for next season, Long 
The belles (8-9, 4-4 mIAA) were said. she believes that her team able to achieve the best record of has what it takes to go all the way the program’s short three-year in the mIAA, she added. history but fell short of their ul-“our goal for next year is to timate goal of making the mIAA win the conference tournament,” tournament. despite the way the Long said. “We grew so much as a season came to an end, junior co-team this year and gained confi­captain and goalkeeper shannon dence throughout our conference Weyer said she believes the belles play that we now see how achiev­have come a long way. able winning the conference next 
“The biggest improvement was year is.” our overall record,” Weyer said. vanneste said she thinks the “It has been amazing to see this team’s tough end to the season team get better each year of our will spur the program forward program.” next year. 
Junior co-captain and attack “Losing the heartbreaking tie­emilie vanneste also said she breaker has truly fueled the team’s thought this season was a produc-determination heading into next tive one. season,” vanneste said. “We know 
“We were able to prove to our-it’s within reach, and I think that selves and to our conference op-if we can all stick to our training ponents that we have the talent to schedule and come back stron­be a threat,” vanneste said. ger, both physically and mentally, 

If the team’s reason for fall-we’ll be ready for what is to come.” ing short of the postseason can be summed up in one game, it Contact Elizabeth Greason at would be the belles’ 8-7 loss to egreason@nd.edu schedule, none bigger than its 9-0 have won about 80 percent of the saint mary’s was lead offensive-Kalamazoo on April 28, which sweep against Albion on senior close ones.” ly throughout the regular season belles head coach Amy Long said Tennis day, head coach dale campbell Following the loss to hope, saint by sophomore outfielder cassie was a frustrating loss for her and said. he also said he knows this mary’s season came to an end. Young, who led the team in bat-
By ALEX ELLYIN 

the team. The belles tied for fourth sports Writer team was special and knows even It did, however, mark the third ting average (.500), rbIs (34) and place in the conference with the greater success will come in the straight season the belles finished slugging percentage (.664). hornets, but the loss cost saint saint mary’s had its best season future. in the conference’s top four to earn “cassie was at the top of the mary’s the tiebreaker for a post-in over a decade but wound up “I was most impressed with their a spot in the postseason. conference with her bat this year,” season spot. falling short of a conference title teamwork and unity,” campbell Zache said. “For her to be a sopho­
“That one-goal loss stood when it lost to hope in the mIAA said. “our team is fairly young, Contact Alex Ellyin at  more in the 3-4 slot and to handle between us and making the tournament semifinals to close but they have a great bond with aellyin@nd.edu the pitching she did as a sopho­tournament,” Long said. “It is ob-out its season. each other already. our doubles more is phenomenal.” viously disappointing to come so The belles (14-6, 5-3) secured is improving, and we are getting Softball on the mound, sophomore close and miss achieving our goal 14 victories on the season, the mentally and physically tougher morgan raymer provided the 
By R.J. Stempak 

by such a small margin.” most wins the program has had as a team.” sports Writer belles with consistent pitching 
vanneste agreed and said the since 2004. The team, led by senior The team was young for the most all year. she earned 10 wins in 15 Kalamazoo loss is one that will captain Andrea Fetters, had nu-part, as there were only two seniors saint mary’s ended its regular starts with an erA of just 2.48. haunt her. merous statement wins on their on the roster. but that experience season with a winning record and “once we got into the middle 
made a world of difference for the finished fourth in the conference of the season, morgan raymer belles according to campbell. before falling to Alma and Trine in stepped up as our go-to pitcher,” 
“The experienced players have the postseason to close out its year. Zache said. “she threw in and worked well with the younger play-The belles (19-18, 9-7 mIAA) won both games of the double­ers, and they all understand the worked their way to a second-header which clinched us to go value of [teamwork],” campbell straight appearance in the mIAA to the tournament. she’s stronger said. “They have continued to stay tournament and the eighth ap-than ever right now, and she has focused in a long season, and have pearance for the program since been a big and impactful player all prepared for each match individu-2004. saint mary’s highlighted its season. she thrives in close games ally. They handle what is in front of schedule with a win over nation-and wants the ball in her hand in them very well.” ally-ranked Alma and a sweep those situations.” 
out of the team’s 14 wins this of Kalamazoo at the end of the saint mary’s opened the mIAA season, six were clean sweeps season to clinch a spot in the tournament on may 5 with a game at 9-0, showing how dominant postseason. against top-seeded Alma and fell the belles proved to be at times. The belles were a strong offen-in extra innings, 2-1. The belles These victories came against the sive team this season, outscor-then followed that game up with aforementioned Albion as well as ing opponents 209-153 over the a 5-0 loss to Trine, bringing an Judson, Wittenburg, concordia, course of the year and posting an end to their season. It was the 11th Trine and bethel. undefeated 7-0 record when scor-consecutive year with a winning 
campbell also said he is very ing more than 10 runs in a game. record for saint mary’s. proud of the fact that after each “overall, we got stronger as loss this year, the belles fought the season went on,” belles head Contact R.J. Stempak at   back to avenge the loss in the fol-coach Kelli Zache said. “We met rstempak@nd.edu lowing match. our expectations from the be­
“our team doesn’t get down ginning of the year, which was Golf very long,” campbell said. “When to go to the [mIAA] tournament. 
By JOE EVERETT 
they lose, they are upset, but they offensively, I feel like we kicked sports Writer use that for motivation. We can [butt] this season. We were second always use more of that channel-in the conference overall in bat-saint mary’s season ended with ling of energy toward higher goals, ting average. We had eight players a second-place finish in the mIAA’s but this is a fairly mature team in throughout the season who had automatic qualifier on April 30, terms of preparation. our record over a .300 batting average, which in close sets is also incredible. We is not common.” see smc YeAr PAGE 50 




The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

“I am proud of all of my play-nonconference win over Kenyon Junior captain brittany beeler number of obstacles faced, the SMC Year ers,” moore said. “It is not easy to to close out its season. had a historic season, as she was positives are what mcLaughlin 
conTInUed From PAGe 49 

go through an athletic season as a The belles graduate two seniors, the top finisher for the belles in said she will remember. 
student-athlete, especially at saint outside hitter Katie hecklinski every race of the year and the sec-“Playing soccer at saint mary’s as top-seeded hope beat out the mary’s. They have proven, athleti-— who was selected by mIAA ond runner in program history to the past four years has been one belles for the trip to nationals. cally and academically, that they coaches as a First Team All-mIAA earn all-mIAA First Team honors. of the best parts of my college ex-
The belles finished their season have the discipline and dedication honoree — and defensive special-bauters commended beeler as a perience,” mcLaughlin said. “I on a high note, however, winning to be successful at both. That’s the ist Angela bukur. van de Walle standout athlete among many this have formed lasting friendships the final round of the three-round beauty of division III athletics: said both contributed greatly to season. with my teammates beyond the qualifier with a score of 320, a sea-student athletes can really do it the team in different ways. “The team as a whole is full of soccer field, and I cannot say son-best mark for the team. With all, and my players are prime ex-“Katie and Angela were two amazing women — best in a mul-enough about their incredible ac-the team’s scoring average almost amples of that philosophy.” great seniors who had different titude of categories,” bauters said. complishments and personalities. a 20-stroke improvement from last roles on the team,” van de Walle “brittany beeler led the charge Although this year we were re-year, the program has been trend-Contact Joe Everett at  said. “Angela was a role player for every meet and has been an exem-building, with upcoming leaders ing upwards, evident by top-four jeveret4@nd.edu us. she had limited playing time, plary role model for her peers in and incoming talent, I know the finishes in both the spring and the was a total team player and was work ethic, persistence and posi-program will only continue to fall. belles head coach Kim moore Volleyball definitely loved by the team for tive attitude. While she is our top grow.” said she was proud of the special how she gave 100 percent of her-performer, she contributes to the 
By VICTORIA LLORENS season she and her team experi-sports Writer self every day. Katie was our cap-team in other ways that are just Contact Alex Bender at  enced together. tain and the driving force of the as — if not even more — valuable.” abender@nd.edu “overall, I felt that this season Under the guidance of first-year team. she was our go-to player. batters said she is looking for-was one of the most successful head coach denise van de Walle, she was the player every team in ward to the future as the team Basketball seasons I’ve had since I’ve been at saint mary’s succeeded in achiev-the conference knew about. she is poised to return with some of 
By JACKIE BREBECK 

saint mary’s,” moore said. “I felt ing its second 15-win season in a was a First team All-mIAA selec-its best talent following a strong sports Writer that throughout this season we row but fell short of earning a spot tion, which tells you how good of a season. had our ups and downs — some in the mIAA tournament. player she was for us. “This team was really special,” It was a rough season for saint players played well in the first van de Walle said a part of “You can’t replace senior leader-bauters said. “We had great team mary’s, as the belles came away half of the season and not so well her was disappointed the team ship, their understanding of the chemistry all year, which is not from the 2015-2016 campaign the second and vice-versa — but came up short, but she was also game and the inner workings of the easy. This team was definitely one with only a single victory. overall, I felt our team really came happy with how far it progressed program. They both had a big im-of my most talented groups as a saint mary’s (1-24, 1-15 mIAA) together and played some very throughout the season. pact on the team in different ways.” whole.” started the season with a game competitive golf. Their cohesive-“I was new to saint mary’s,” van The rest of saint mary’s roster against north Park on november ness helped them be themselves, de Walle said. “I started my job will be back next season and con-Contact Maureen Schweninger 17 resulting in a 64-49 loss. The play together and ultimately play the day before the season started. I tinue to train over the summer in at mschweni@nd.edu belles then went into the Wheaton for each other. … each player was knew the team had lost six seniors order to secure a third consecutive tournament, where they were not playing for the success of this from the year before, so I wasn’t 15-win season. Soccer able to win either game. team as a whole.” sure what to expect. so I was With three losses already, the 
By ALEX BENDER moore said she will look for the pleased with our 15 wins and how Contact Victoria Llorens at  sports Writer belles had a string of five more team to carry that success into well we started the year. however, vllorens@nd.edu defeats, including one against next year’s campaign. Although the competitor in me was disap-saint mary’s 2015 season was Anderson by just two points. The the belles will lose seniors Katie pointed we didn’t make the con-Cross Country filled with close matches: 12 of the belles first victory of the season Zielinski and sammie Averill, ference tournament.” team’s 18 matches were decided came against Alma on december 
By MAUREEN SCHWENINGER 

moore said she expects her return-The belles (15-13, 7-9 mIAA) sports Writer by two goals or fewer. 9 by a final score of 68-56. This ing players to all improve their indi-started their season by going 10-4 When all was said and done, brought saint mary’s mIAA re­vidual games and help to continue in their first 14 games, including despite seeing one its key run-saint mary’s finished just 2-15-cord to 1-2 as senior forward Krista building a strong culture within 6-1 in nonconference matches. ners go down early in the season 1, but the tight scores indicate a Knapke lead the belles with 14 the program. Two of those early four loses, how-with an injury, saint mary’s held more positive season than that re-points and seven steals. senior 
“We are going to be missing a ever, came to mIAA foes calvin its own against tough competition cord indicates. forward eleni shea and freshman few important pieces to the puz-and hope. and finished in 15th place at its Perhaps one of the biggest ques-guard erin maloney also factored zle, but the returners have seen “The toughest competition that ncAA regional. tions at the end of this season will into the saint mary’s victory. shea what the cohesiveness of a team we faced this year was calvin and belles head coach Jackie bauters be what could have been had the contributed 13 points and nine re-can do for its success,” moore said. hope,” van de Walle said. “both said her largest preseason con-team stayed healthy. saint mary’s bounds, while maloney tallied a “I have no doubt that they will take have won national champion-cerns involved working with the saw just five members of the eigh-season-high 13 points, including a the incoming freshman under ships, both have very good teams new freshmen, as six of the 16 team teen player roster make it through perfect 7-of-7 from the free-throw their wing and introduce them to year in and year out. Their skill members were competing at the the whole season without missing line. the culture we’ve created. I want level is very high, and they are collegiate level for the first time. a game. however, despite a sea-Looking back on the season, our returners to work hard this used to winning.” “We had a large group of first son that saw a number of bumps belles head coach Jennifer henley summer on their short game and The next month of play, how-years on the team, and you never in the road, the team as a whole said she felt that although it was mental game … to use this season ever, proved difficult for the know how the team will mesh stayed positive, said senior cap-a trying season, she saw results as motivation to continue the hard belles, as they lost seven times in or how they will perform in their tain maggie mcLaughlin. from the hard work that the belles work they have put in so that we ten matches. The injury of junior first season,” bauters said. “but “Injuries this season were a put into practicing and improving. can really build on the success we outside hitter meaghan Gibbons this ended up not being a nega-huge obstacle for us to overcome,” “It was a disappointing seasons have created.” had a huge impact on the team’s tive at all but very positive for the mcLaughlin said. “We had very as far as wins and losses go,” henley 
Although moore is already play during that stretch, van team. I think losing [freshman few games in which every player said. “This team worked incredibly thinking of next season, moore de Walle said. but saint mary’s Aubrey Penn] to her injury in late was available. … This, paired hard and got better as the season said her team should be proud of bounced back with wins in two of september was one of our biggest with having such a small bench went along.” this season, too. its last four matches, including a setbacks. The team really stepped made it difficult to maintain high Throughout the year the belles 
up their game and everyone con-intensity for 90 minutes. … The were lead by their four seniors: tributed, but unfortunately she constant injuries and reoccurring shea, Knapke, and guards maddie wasn’t able to come back for the losses would certainly be enough Kohler and sarah macius. henley end of the season.” to kill team morale, but I was ex-said the graduating seniors will 
Thirteen personal records tremely proud of the way our team leave big shoes to fill. were set by saint mary’s runners handled the situation. many of the “We graduate four great seniors throughout the season. In ncAA scores did not reflect the grit and who will be missed,” henley said. regional competition on nov. 14, hustle each and every player dis-shea lead the belles with 12.4 the belles claimed 15th-place played on the field day in and day points per game and Knapke and tied for third among the nine out. As a captain, that is all you ask was not far behind at 11.7. shea mIAA teams competing. This was of your teammates.” and Knapke also lead the belles an improvement from the fourth-There were a number of bright in rebounds with 157 and 196 place finish they had at the mIAA moments for the team as the respectively. championships just two weeks belles were able to complete a After their victory over Alma, the earlier. season sweep of conference foe belles went winless the rest of the 
“Finishing [fourth] at confer-Trine with a 4-1 home victory on season and ended their campaign ence was a great accomplish-september 17, and a 2-1 win on with a 1-24 mark. The belles did ment, but [it was] also bitter sweet the road exactly a month later. keep five games to within 10 points, since we were so close to standing Additionally, mcLaughlin was including a 72-70 loss to Anderson alone in third place,” bauters said. named second-team All-mIAA. on november 24 and a 52-49 defeat “There were many mini accom-This marked the 15th consecutive to olivet on January 23. plishments throughout the year, season a saint mary’s athlete has and individuals had some stellar been named to the conference’s Contact Jackie Brebeck at  personal achievements.” first or second team. despite the jbrebeck@nd.edu 



ndsmcobserver.com | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | The observer 


MEN’S LACROSSE | 10-3, 3-1 Acc 

Notre Dame pursues elusive national title 
By MANNY DE JESUS 
sports Writer 
There’s no denying how im­pressive the Irish have been in recent history. but despite the plethora of accolades and high rankings, no. 7 notre dame is still chasing the one trophy it has yet to hoist — the ncAA national championship. 
In four of the last six sea­sons, the Irish have made it to the coveted championship Weekend. The veterans on this year’s squad have been close to reaching the promised land in the last two seasons. notre dame appeared in the ncAA finals in 2014 against duke and the semifinals against the even­tual ncAA champions, denver, last season. 
The goal heading into this season was no different than the one the Irish had last sea­son or the season before that, and it started off on the right foot as Inside Lacrosse named the Irish the nation’s best team in the preseason. 
The favorites to win the Acc, notre dame returned three first-team All-Americans in junior midfielder sergio Perkovic, senior defenseman matt Landis and senior attack matt Kavanagh. The team also returned a slew of promising young players, including soph­omore attack mikey Wynne and junior midfielder P.J. Finley. 
behind the myriad of tal­ent on its roster, notre dame started the season off 4-0 be­fore facing off in a rematch of last season’s ncAA semifi­nal against denver at home. despite scoring four goals in 43 seconds in the fourth quar­ter to take the lead against the defending champions, the vis­iting Pioneers managed to push the game into overtime with a late goal. With two minutes left in the extra period, denver con­verted the only shot attempted in overtime to walk away with the win. 
despite the loss, Finley’s most memorable moment of the sea­son came from that contest. 
“Ironically enough, my fa­vorite moment from the season comes from our loss to denver at home,” Finley said. “We scored four goals in 43 seconds at the end of the fourth quarter to take a late lead — I believe our first of the game. Though we lost the game, I think that minute or so shows what kind of team we are: relentless com­petitors, never backing down from the moment.” 
Following the loss, the Irish went on to win five straight games, including overtime wins against virginia and marquette and their first ever win at the carrier dome against syracuse. The successful stretch elevated the Irish back to its preseason number one ranking. 
but their time atop the rank­ings was short lived. 
The Irish hosted north carolina in the Acc regular season finale, and it looked as if the squad was ready to clinch its second straight undefeated conference record and regular season Acc title. however, a 7-0 run late in the fourth quarter by the Tar heels erased a 15-10 notre dame lead and snatched the win away from the Irish. 
The next week didn’t prove any better for notre dame. For the first time since 2014, the Irish lost two straight games as they dropped another Acc game against duke in the Acc semifinals. In the six days that marked two losses for the Irish, the team dropped from the no. 1 to no. 7. 
despite the two losses, the Irish were given a no. 3 seed in the ncAA tournament and, af­ter defeating Army in the final game of their regular season on sunday, 13-7, the Irish are confi­dent in their chances of making a deep run in the national tour­nament. Landis just won his second straight Acc defensive Player of the Year award and freshman attack ryder Garnsey was named Acc Freshman of the Year. With the locker room’s confidence riding high as the tournament gets closer, notre dame is convinced that it’s still the team to beat. 
“You can feel the hunger to get back to the championship in the locker room,” Finley said. “We want this more than we have wanted anything in our lives. The fact that we have been there before ... only drives us farther every day. We have guys on this team that have played in every possible big game, and I think that experi­ence will pay dividends for us down the road.” 
notre dame will take on Air Force in the first round of the ncAA tournament on saturday. 
Contact Manny De Jesus at mdejesus@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE | 13-6, 4-3 Acc 

Irish struggle down stretch against top teams 
“It gave us a lot of experience,” the Acc tournament, where 
By DANIEL O’BOYLE 

sports Writer halfpenny said. “Players un-the Irish exacted revenge over derstood the road that we were Louisville but could not do the 
When the 2016 season started, about to embark upon, the work same to syracuse, as the orange notre dame was no stranger to we were going to put in and ex-won 9-5 to advance to the con­top-level competition: 11 of 12 perience as leaders off the field ference final. starters returned from 2015’s and experience as players on 2016 was the final year at team as the Irish set to take on the field. That just catapulted notre dame for graduate stu­another loaded schedule. The us and, specifically, catapulted dent defender barbara sullivan. experienced Irish team played the mindset and culture of this starting a record 80 games for their way to a 13-6 record, third year’s team.” the Irish since her debut ap­place in the Acc and a confer-The Irish had no trouble pearance in 2012, sullivan has ence semi-final appearance. bouncing back from their first become one of the most deco­
notre dame began the sea-defeat, though, with four more rated players in program his-son looking like one of the most wins, including a 16-4 defeat of tory. she is second all-time in impressive teams in the nation. then-no. 9 virginia, pushing the program history in ground balls It had five wins in its opening Irish back into the top-5 teams and first in both draw controls five games, averaging 16 goals in the country at no. 4. A top-5 and caused turnovers. sullivan scored per game and less than matchup with no. 5 syracuse at holds each of the three high-five allowed per game. The Arlotta stadium gave the Irish est single-season draw con-stretch was highlighted by a an opportunity to make a huge trol totals for the Irish and set 14-4 win over then-no. 9 boston statement, but for the second the the single-season caused college, which included a run of time in the season, the Irish were turnover record this year, tying 10 unanswered goals to guide defeated in a close game, fall-the single-game record twice. the Irish to a victory in their Acc ing 12-11. From there, the Irish halfpenny said sullivan’s im­opener. notre dame jumped to struggled to return to their win-pact on notre dame lacrosse no. 5 in the polls before a back-ning ways as they faced some cannot be understated. and-forth, overtime encounter of the top teams in the coun-“I don’t want to even think leadership skills doesn’t happen The Irish will begin ncAA at Louisville saw the Irish lose try down the stretch, falling to about her leaving,” halfpenny all the time. I don’t know if I can tournament play on Friday their first game of the season. then-no. 3 north carolina and said. “barbara has been synony-quite put into words how much when they take on the winner 
Irish head coach christine fighting in a defensive encoun-mous with notre dame women’s she means to this program of northwestern-Louisville at halfpenny said the number of ter with then-no. 5 Usc that lacrosse since I’ve been here, and, specifically, how much she Arlotta stadium. players who had started for the ended 5-4 in favor of the Trojans. and she’s really left an incred-means to me. It’s been humbling Irish before 2016 ensured her notre dame closed the regu-ible legacy. To have a top player to have the opportunity to coach Contact Daniel O’Boyle at team was ready from the start. lar season with a win before with top work ethic and top her.” doboyle1@nd.edu 


make checks payable to and mail to: The observer 
P.o. box 779 
notre dame, In 46556 

enclosed
 is $130 for one academic year 


enclosed
 is $75 for one semester



Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
name 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying 
Address 
form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
city      state Zip 


The observer | FRIDAY, MAY 13, 2016 | ndsmcobserver.com 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS | 14-3, 5-9 Acc 

ND weathers season of ups and downs 
By MICHAEL IVEY 
sports Writer 
A trip to the Acc quarterfi­nals capped off an erratic sea­son for notre dame. 
The Irish (14-13,  5-9 Acc) performed well at home this season, finishing with an 8-3 record in matches played at eck Tennis Pavilion or courtney Tennis center, but struggled on the road, compil­ing a record of 6-10 away from south bend. 
When reflecting on this season, Irish head coach Jay Louderback said he liked the way his team was able to put rough matches behind them and focus on the present. he also liked his team’s mentality during practice. 
“I feel like this year’s team did a great job of playing one match at a time and not dwell­ing on any matches we lost,” Louderback said. “They al­ways came out to practice every day and worked very hard.” 
notre dame started its sea­son in January, winning its first match of the season 7-0 against Western michigan on January 19. The Irish then participated at the ITA Kickoff Weekend Tournament in stillwater, oklahoma at the end of January. The Irish dropped two matches by iden­tical 4-0 scores to oklahoma state and Arizona state. 
After that, the Irish won sev­en of their next eight matches, highlighted by wins against big Ten opponents Illinois, michigan, Purdue and Indiana as well as conference oppo­nents Pittsburgh, Louisville and boston college. The Irish went on a dry spell after that, however, and won only two of their next ten matches. 
Louderback pointed to a stretch the Irish went through back on April 8-10 as the criti­cal point of the season. during that time, the Irish had lost six of their previous eight match­es and almost beat confer­ence opponents clemson and Georgia Tech without one of their best players — junior monica robinson. 
“I think the turning point of the season was the week­end we lost 4-3 matches to clemson and Georgia Tech with monica robinson out of the lineup with an injury,” Louderback said. “I think we realized how close we were to these teams without monica and when she returned to the lineup we had our best wins of the season.” 
After those two matches, the Irish won two of their last three regular season contests and rode that momentum into the Acc tournament. The Irish won their first round match-up, 4-0, against Pittsburgh and then upset clemson, 4-1, in the second round before falling to Georgia Tech in the quarterfinals, 4-0. 
Louderback said his favorite match of the year was when the Irish beat clemson in the Acc tournament because of the implications it had for his team in regards to the ncAA tournament. 

“The win against clemson was my favorite of the year since we had to have the win and they are a top-30 team,” Louderback said. 
Louderback also said he was proud of the seniors on the team — Quinn Gleason, Julie vrabel, Alaina roberts and darby mountford — and im­pact they had on the younger players. 
“our seniors put it on the line every match they played this year, which was a great example for our younger play­ers,” Louderback said. 
The Irish will take on no. 25 UcLA on Friday in the first round of the ncAA tourna­ment. Whatever the outcome of the game, Louderback said he will remember this year’s team fondly. 
“I will remember this year’s team as a very hard working group that bonded really well as a team,” Louderback said. 
Contact Michael Ivey at  mivey@hcc-nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS | 14-12, 6-6 Acc 

Irish cap season with victory over Tar heels 
conference losses, notre very special.” was ready to do that.” the Acc tournament defeat-
By TONY ZAPPIA 

sports Writer dame upset then-no. 1 senior Alex Lawson, who The Irish got off to a slow ing duke, 4-1, before fall-north carolina, 5-2, in a clinched the notre dame vic-start to the season as the ing in a tight quarterfinal 
It was an up and down historic victory on senior tory against north carolina, team struggled away from match to then-no. 7 Wake season for the Irish (14-12, night. For Irish head coach also remembers the match home and found themselves Forest, 4-3. Though the sea­6-6 Acc) as notre dame fin-ryan sachire, beating north as one of the best moments unable to compete against son is not over, with the Irish ished in seventh place in the carolina was one of the best of the year. the upper echelon of Acc headed to the ncAA tourna­competitive Acc and earned moments of the season. “You can’t ask for anything teams. however, after the ment, sachire believes that its 12th consecutive ncAA “clearly beating [north more than beating [north] win over north carolina the team has successfully tournament appearance. carolina] on senior night carolina on senior night,” and a strong performance accomplished its goal of be-
despite finishing in the in the fashion we did was Lawson said. “I didn’t know in the Acc tournament, it ing the most improved team middle of the pack in the incredible,” sachire said. that [my point] would be the is now clear to sachire that in the country. Acc, the Irish produced “With all of the seniors con-deciding point, but I had a his team has grown over the “We always talk about pro-plenty of highlights this tributing the way they did feeling that it was impor-course of the season. cess, and, with that, my one season — most notably, and the way we competed tant. I knew the team needed “We grew a lot,” sachire goal is to be the most im­coming off of four straight and played, that night was the win, and I went out and said. “We faced some adver-proved team in the country,” 
sity early on and we didn’t sachire said. “I do think we always play our best. What accomplished that goal. our I tell our guys is that it’s all team feels like a different about sticking to the process team now. We’re confident in and working hard. We con-ourselves and in each other. stantly believed we were a “certainly we haven’t hit good team, and we just had our goal for our position in to find our rhythm. I think the rankings yet, but, just lesser teams with lesser guys like basketball, a lot is rid-would have given up but our ing on our performance in guys stuck with it, and we the ncAA tournament,” he grew in terms of confidence, said. “A lot of our evaluation and then finally the wins is yet to be determined, but, came.” in terms of process and cul­
despite the slow start to ture, we definitely achieved the season, the Irish came our goal.” on strong by closing out the notre dame faces off Acc regular season with against stanford in the first the aforementioned win round of the ncAA tourna­over north carolina and a ment on may 14. 6-1 win over north carolina state. The Irish carried this Contact Tony Zappia at  late season momentum into azappia@nd.edu 






