The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
99th Year Begins 
(Page 3) 
Alumni Board Meets 
(Page 5) 
Atom Smashing 
at 
Notre Dame 
(Page 7) 

Memorial Entrance to Sacred Heart Church 
Vol. 19 OCTOBER. 1940 No. 
Courtesy. N.C.W.C. News Service 

Frank C. Walker, '09, Becomes Cabinet Member 
Francis Comerford Walker, LL.B., '09, LL.D., '34, on Sep­tember 11, 1940, became the first Notre Dame alumnus, in course, to hold a portfolio in the Cabinet of the President of the United States, succeeding James A. Farley as Postmaster General. In the picture above Mr. Walker is shown receiving his commission from President Franklin D. Roosevelt, LL.D., '35. 
Frank Walker's career has risen to its present merited peak through steps familiar to the alumni of Notre Dame: practicing lawyer in his boyhood state, Montana assistant district attorney and legislator in his district first lieutenant in the World War association with the theatrical enterprise in the East which he has recently headed, a chain of 180 theaters ... . enlistment through friendship with Franklin D. Boosevelt as treasurer of the Democratic National Committee in 1932 director of the first great New Deal spending agency, the National Emergency Council, in 1935... Commencement speaker and recipient of the Doctorate of Laws at Notre Dame's 1934 Commencement.... member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University. 
So it is that Notre Dame men herald the recognition of Frank C. Walker to the high post in the United States Govern­ment. Coming to a vital office during a period bordering on national crisis, his fellow alumni borrow advice and look at the record, and are confident that Notre Dame, as well as the people of America, are well represented by this new Cabinet member. 
Their prayers join their best personal wishes for his success, and the success of the small group to which he now belongs, in the happy solution of the great problems which rest upon them. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the University of Nott« Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Fostoffiee, Notre I>uae, IndiaDa, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the. National'Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG. '25, Editor; WII-UAM R . DOOLEY. "26, Managmg Editor 
Vol. 19 OaOBER, 1940 No. 
Notre Dame Begins 99th Scholastic Year 
Father O'Donnell Retained as President; Two Col­leges With New Deans; 3,252 Enrollment; Faculty Ad­ditions; increase in Class and Laboratory Facilities. 
The summer of 1940 found Notre Dame going through again that process which permits drastic change in plant and personnel without interfering with the great purpose which motivated the founder, or the great spirit which, through the years since 1842, has been the common denominator of the pro­cesses serving that purpose. 
The Provincial Chapter of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, meeting the in­creasing demands of the many functions of the Congregation without as well as within the University, met during the summer and its deliberations affected the personnel of the Notre Dame family ex­tensively. 
Happily, and as anticipated, Kev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, acting pres­ident of the University following the consecration of the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., in January, was named as president of the University for the ensuing full term of office. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '23, was also con­firmed as vice-president to continue in that office under Father O'Donnell. 
A major change of interest to alumni was the appointment of Rev. Charles C Miltner, C.S.C, '11, as president of the University of Portland. For many years Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and one of America's leading Catholic philosophers. Father Miltner now adds to Ms academic and cultural richness executive experience in one of the grow­ing colleges of the Congregation. 
Succeeding Father Miltner as dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame is the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., Ph.D., '18, formerly head of the Department of Politics. Father Boland has served in many executive capacities, including the vice-presidency of St. Ed­ward's University, the prefect of disci­pline's post at Notre Dame, and the di­recting head of the recently instituted 
department of politics at Notre Dame. Father Boland received his Ph.D. from Catholic University, and has taken spe­cial work several summers at Columbia University. 
With the opening of the scholastic year, Mr. Henry B. Froning was named officially as dean of the College of Sci­ence, succeeding the late Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, '11. Prof. Froning, for many years head of both the Depart­ment of Chemistry and the Department of Chemical Engineering, retains those posts. Prof. Froning begins this fall his 21st year at Notre Dame.'He received his A.B. from St. Joseph's College in 1908, and his A.M. from Ohio State in 1912. He is a member of Sigma Xi, the Phi Lamba Upsilon, the American Chem­ical Society, the Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft, and fellow of the British Chemical Society, the American Insti-
REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL, CS.C.'16 President of the Univenity 
tute of Chemistry, and the Indiana Acad. 
emy of Science. 
Major plant change is not the pres­ence of a new building, but the absence of an old one. Freshman Hall, nee Soph­omore, the stucco residence hall adjoin­ing Eddy Street, erected in 1923 as a temporary appeasement of campus rea­dence demands of that crowded era, was demolished this .summer. The result is an east campus to which the Biology-Building, the Iniirmary, the three resi­dence halls, Breen-Phillips, Cavanau^, and Zahm, and a iwplar-fronted Gymna­sium contribute beauty and impressive scope. 
A much needed expansion of Chemis­try Hall is being provided by a wing to the east of the present main structure. The new wing, together with the old postoffice building that now serves as the chemistry library, will give the depart­ment substantial and essential labratory and classroom space. 
In back of Science Hall, a modest addi­tion for the project involved, the Physics Department has walled in. fhe major equipment for its new generator (cf. Prof. Collins' article in this^issnfc) 
And of no small interest is the laying of much sidewalk during the summer, a challenge to the statisticians re: the' savings in socks and shoe-leather as against the long-familiar cinders. 
Rev. Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C, 16. retired as president of St. Edward's Uni­versity in Austin, Texas, and has re­turned to Watertown, Wis. Succeeding him as president of St. Edward's is the Rev. Stanislaus Lisewski, C.S.C., '20. Father Usewsld, who was assistant pro­fessor of Polish at Notre Dame from 1936, received his PhJ). from Gregorian University in Rome, his S.T.D. timn fhe same university, and later studied Sla-. vonic languages at the University of Krakow, in Poland, for two years. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Rev. James French, C.S.C, for many years a member of the faculty and ad­ministration of the University, later a founding father of the Mission Band of the Congregation of Holy Cross, retired from his post as chaplain of St. Joseph's Hospital, in South Bend, and was suc­ceeded in that post by another beloved veteran of the Congregation, Rev. John 
F. De Groote, C.S.C. Father French is living in the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Joseph Maguire, C.S.C, '96, one­time faculty member, later president of St. Edward's, and most recently pastor of St. Patrick's parish. South Bend, has become superior of the Community House on the Notre Dame campus. He has been succeeded at St. Patrick's by the popular Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C, '15, formerly head of the Mission Band. 
Illness retired Father William J. Burke, C.S.C, '13, from the pastorate of Christ the King church on the Niles road north of Notre Dame, and he has been succeeded there by the Rev. James Gallag^an, C.S.C, '06, last year rector of Walsh and professor of politics, long known, as rector of various halls at Notre Dame, to a host of alumni. 
Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C, '06, after a year in New Orleans, returns to Notre Dame as professor of history and rector of Walsh Hall. 
Rev. William A.. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, famed Notre Dame economist, returns to the faculty of the University after sev­eral years' absence as an administrator at the College of St. Thomas and later as a member of the Mission Band. 
Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C.S.C, '04, one­time director of studies at Notre Dame, most recently pastor at Watertown, Wis., has become superior and pastor of Sa­cred Heart Church, New Orleans. 
Succeeding Father Dolan as superior of the Mission Band at Notre Dame is Rev. Richard CoUentine, C.S.C, '09, for­mer mission priest, most recently superior of the Community House, Notre Dame. 
Rev. Louis Kelley, C.S.C, '07, returns to the Notre Dame faculty from Sacred Heart parish. New Orleans. 
Rev. Michael J. Early, C.S.C, '17, for­merly president of the University of Portland, has become the superior of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary, Washington, D. C 
Added to the Mission Band at Notre Dame is Rev. Joseph McAllister, C.S.C, '23, formerly superior of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. He has been succeeded in this post by Rev. Christo­pher O'Toole, C.S.C, '29. 
Rev. Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C, '33, formerly prefect of religion at Notre Dame, has been assigned to teach at the Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross, North Easton, Mass. His post at Notre Dame has .been filled by Rev. John P. Lynch, C.S.C, '25, assistant prefect last year. Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C, '33, remains as an assistant prefect, and the second assistant prefect is Rev. William 
T. Craddick, C.S.C, '30. 
Rev. Thomas Hewitt, C.S.C, '35, as­sistant pastor of St. Patrick's, South Bend, last year, has been transferred to the Notre Dame Mission Band. 
The ALUMNUS regrets that the above mentions of personal changes are far from comprehensive. We have tried to 

bring to alumni those men whose pres­
ent posts or whose past associations have 
particular alumni significance. 
The Chapter obediences were given to 
278 priests and 374 brothers, and even 

a condensed version that would be com­
prehensive assumes epic proportions. 
Present addresses of any member of the 
Congregation will gladly be furnished 

to alumni on request. 
Outstanding among new faculty mem­hers from outside the Notre Dame fam­ily is Rev. John A. O'Brien, Ph.D., for­mer head of the Newman Foundation of the University of Illinois, and a distin­guished figure in most of the forms of contemporary Catholic writing. Father O'Brien, adding a year's study and travel in Europe to his rich background at niinois, joins the faculty of apolo­getics at Notre Dame. 
New head of the department of speech is a Notre Dame alumnus, Cecil Birder, 
LL.B. '14, former member of the Speech Department of the U. of Minnesota and active on the speech and music faculties of the Colleges of St. Thomas and St. Catherine. Prof. Birder is remembered by the Notre Dame men of his era as one of the outstanding fig^ures in Notre Dame dramatics, which were then enjoy­ing a golden era. 
Another Notre Dame degree holder, John McClurg, M.A. '38, joins the facul­ty as field worker for the department of social work, after experience in public welfare in Washington, D. C 
William W. Arbuckle, who taught last year at New Mexico State Teachers Col­lege, joins the faculty of the Music De­partment. 
Francis Lee Benton, Ph.D., comes from (Cootinned on Page 39) 

REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, CS.C. '23 HENRY B. FRONING 
REV. FRANCIS J, ROLAND, CS-C, '18 
Vice-Precident of the University Dean, College of Science 
Daaa, College of Arts and Letters 

The Notre Dame Alu m n u s 



Alumni Board Holds Summer Meeting 
U. N. D. Night Set for April 21, 1941; Nominal Assessment for Alumni at Corhmencement Discussed; Charters for Gubs Agreed Upon; National Directory Proposed; Members Attend Retreat 
One of the most successful meetings of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association yet to be held, took place on August 3. 
President Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Co­lumbus, Ohio; William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis; John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit; Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleve­land, and Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, brought long personal records of alumni interest and achievement, to­gether with the direct experiences of 
_ five major Local Clubs, and joined the Alumni Office representatives, James E. Armstrong, '25, and William R. Dooley, '26, in a discussion of the various phases of alumni work, all of growing signifi­cance and complexity. 
The Board was entertained at dinner and an ensuing meeting as guests of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, president of the University, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '23, vice-president of the University, both of whom are well acquainted with and vital­ly interested in the development of the alumni program. 
General results of the meeting were a crystallization of policy within the Board identifying the Association as a major and a challenging opportunity for alumni initiative, which needs increased attention and some new regulations to protect and promote progress already made; and the identification of the Asso­ciation as an integral and vital part of the Greater Notre Dame which must work closely and in complete harmony with the University to bring to the alumni the full measure of benefit at­tached to the progress of the University, and to the University the full measure of alumni appreciation of this progress and the necessity for its perpetuation. 
Club Charters 

Ninety-two Local Alumni Clubs exist. They present a record of loyalty and progress. And they present an organi­zation in themselves of immeasurable value to alumni and to the University, and are of course pillars of the Asso­ciation. 
By the same token, the development has been so rapid, and the scope is now so vast, that the Clubs begin to present opportunities for difficulties, which might conceivably cause embarrassment to the agencies they now serve so well. 
Consequently the Board has instructed the Alumni Office to develop a Charter, to be awarded to existing and to new Clubs upon the fulfillment of certain moderate limitations, so that this large and important body of parts of the Notre Dame family may be properly coordinat-
Preiident Eichenlaub, '15 

ed for more effective operation. Further announcement of the Charter program will be made at an early date. 

Universal Notre Dame Night 

Monday night, April 21, 1941, was set by the Board as the date of the 18th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
So large has the Night become, both in its extent and in its importance as an annual feature of both alumni and University programs, that the date is set early to permit more intensive prepara­tion. Several Clubs are already asking for the privilege of playing host to the national broadcast of the Night, held last year in Detroit. 
Late Easter and early Commencement make the date set practically the only logical date in conformity with the tradi­tion of the Night, which was established in 1924 as the annual, universal tribute by Notre Dame men everywhere to their alma mater. 

Commencement Charge 

Bringing to a head the long-felt need of some modest assessment at Com­mencement for the defraying of the rap­idly mounting and already substantial cost of housing and banqueting and en­tertaining alumni wlio now number 1,000 and wiU hardly number less in the years ahead, the Board discussed a plan for fixing a scale of costs which will not work a hardship upon anyone attending, and which will do no more than cover the physical cost of Commencement ser­vices to alumni. A system of tickets was proposed as the most feasible plan, to cover only housing and the alumni ban­quet. Total cost will probably not exceed $3, as against the high cost of. alnmni week-ends elsewhere. The University is not interested in making a profit on this traditional return of alumni, but the item has loomed larger and larger in the Commencement budget to a point where 
the Alumni Board expressed embarrass­ment, previously voiced by many alomni each Jane, at the continued acceptance of this generosity from a University al­ready financially handicapped in its development program. 
Placement 

William R. Dooley made an excellent report on the progress of the placement program of the Association, which he has directed. 
Basically, the policy adopted fairly eariy seems sound with experience, namely the assistance of the Alumni OfSce extended to new graduates, — the Senior Class, — and the enlistment of the Alumni Clubs in the solution of older alumni placement through activity within the several communities. ­
A substantial program, with recom­mendation directed at the promotion of these objectives, and calling for the co­operation of the University in intensify­
ing the placement guidance of the under­graduate, is now in the hands of the University administration, and the Asso­ciation program will undoubtedly be speeded up with the favorable action of the University on the above recommen­dations. 
The work of Director Edward F. O'Toole, '25, and the placement commit­tees found in the leading Clubs has been, at this pioneering stage of the program, most encouraging, despite proved and regretted limitations all around. 


Promotion 
Several years of capacity enrollment has tended to cloud the issue involved in promotion work as it concerns the alum­ni. Alumni activity is not essentially af­fected by numbers of students, whether Notre Dame is half-filled or overflowing. Our part is the contacting of the schools and the students in each community who are interested in Notre Dame, and the informing of these as to current develop­ments, and the emphasis on the merits of Notre Dame, so that we get not five students from a given city, but the five students from that city who will make the best Notre Dame men. The selective process of cultivation employed by so many major institutions is a source of competition which it is our privilege to meet, and is not based at all upon whether Princeton, or Dartmouth, or Cornell, or Northwestern may need stu­dents to complete enrollment. The -Alum­ni Office hopes to develop a more active program in this direction during the months immediately ahead. 

Nominating Committees 
As a technicality of election proce­dure. President Eichenlaub and the Board agreed to instruct the 1940 Nom­inating Committees to secure from each candidate his consent to nomination be­fore such nomination will appear on the ballot. The Board feels that no inter­ested alumnus will refuse a nomination without exceptional reason. 

Alumni Directory 
A national alumni directory was dis­cussed. In principle it met with the favor of the entire Board. But in practice the Alumni Office, bulwarked by vice-presi­dent Byrne, and his telephone directory experience, advanced important argu­ments agfainst a hasty attempt to realize the project. The consensus of the Board was that the present eifort to cooperate on accurate Club and Class lists be con­tinued, with the general Directory of Notre Dame Men studied as a probable Association project in conjunction with the University Centennial two years hence. 
The Centennial 
The Board was apprised by President O'Donnell that the University is consid­ering the imminent launching of a gen­eral program for the Centennial, which will enlist so much alumni interest and cooperation, that the Board left its own program largely open pending the oppor­tunities for service which the presenta­tion of the University program will bring. 

Financial 
The financial report of the Secretary-Treasurer indicated a slow response to the program of voluntary contributions designed to accommodate the varying conditions in which all alumni, particu­larly the younger men, have found them­selves. It was the hope of the Board that the year would find an increasing coop­eration, ju.stifying this effort of the Association to meet the member more than half waj'. Obviously, no plans of the Board, under Ray Eichenlaub or any other president, can go far beyond the bounds set by the support of the alumni as interpreted in their contributions to the financing of the Association program. 

The Lay Retreat 
The Alumni Association has always accorded its heartiest moral support to the annual Laymens Retreat held on the Notre Dame campus, and has urged Clubs and individuals, particularly those in this area, to participate. The list this year denotes progress in this participa­tion. And it was a happy circumstance which brought the Board meeting to the campus on the week-end of the Retreat so that the members of the Board were enabled to join the 1,400 laymen, includ­ing many alumni, in the major events of the Retreat — the candlelight procession on Saturday night, and the Communion Breakfast on Sunday morning. 


O'MALLEY WITH CASSIDY 
Edward F. O'Malley, B.C.S. '32, LL.B. '39, who spent the long years in between preparing for a legal career and acting as secretary to the president of the Uni­versity, is now Assistant Attorney Gen­eral of the State of Illinois, with offices at 160 N. LaSalle St., Chicago. Those in the Middle West who are familiar with the aggressive regime of John E. Cas­sidy, '17, as Attorney General of Illinois, will readily see the opportunity for his new assistant to catch up on a lot of law practice. Ed had previously passed both the Illinois and Indiana bars. 

Assistant General Chosen 
Father W. J. Dohcny 
Is Appointed to Post 
Rev. William J. Doheny, C.S.C, presi­dent and superior of Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C, was on September 13 named assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The an­nouncement was made by the Very Rev. -Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C, superior general of the order, which has its head­quarters at the University. 
Father Doheny succeeds the late Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C. A canonist of note. Father Doheny is a procurator and advocate of the Sacred Roman Rota and is authorized to plead in all ecclesi-. astical and diocesan tribunals throughout the world. 
He was bom May 30, 1898, at Merrill, Wis., and graduated from St. Norbert College in 1919. He entered the novitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross on Oct. 14, 1919, and was ordained a priest on June 7, 1924. He subsequently re­ceived a J.U.D. degree from Catholic Universitj' of America and studied at the Vatican in Rome as well as in other seats of European learning from 1929 to 1934. During this same period he was superior of Holy Cross International Col­lege at Rome. 
Between 1934 and 1937 Father Do­heny's time was divided between the Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross at North Dartmouth, Mass., and the sem­inary of the order at North Easton, Mass. Since 1937 he has been president and superior of Holy Cross College, Washington. 
Titles of Father Doheny's books on canonical matters include: Church Prop­erty — Modes of Acqicisition, (1927); Canonical Procedtire in Matrimonial Cases, (1937). He was also a contributor to the American Ecclesiastical Review. 
Friends at Notre Dame recall that Father Doheny was active in athletics, particularly in football, while at St. Nor­bert's College, and those who studied with him pay tribute to his genial and diplomatic personality. During recent years Father Doheny has been in great demand as a retreat master for religious • communities. 

No successor to Father Doheny at Washington has been appointed as yet. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Atom Smashing at Notre Dame 
(Ed. Note: Prof Collins, a member of the .faculty since 1933, after receiving his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins and serv­ing on the faculty there, has been a leader in the remarkable development of the Department of Physics at Notre Dame, which has attracted nation-wide attention and commendation. 
Lacking funds to purchase a generator for their experiments, Prof. Collins, Ed­ward Coomes, E.E. '31, M.S. '33, who later received an ScD. from M.I.T.; Ed­ward Kenefake, E.E. '34, M.S. '36; Alfred Hiegel, E.E. '34, M.S. '36; Rich­ard Schager, E.E. '35, M.S. '37, and Alfred Vitter, E.E. '35, M.S. '37. set about the construction of the generator. Prof. Collins, and Prof. Coomes, then a graduate student, sold the idea to Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C., then dean of the College of Engineering. 
The ball was constructed entirely by . hand by Coomes, Kenefake, Hiegel and Prof. Collins. It consists of a wooden framework over which are nailed sheets of copper. These sheets it was found had to be poimded so that they assumed naturally a spherical shape. This terrific job was successfully accomplished large­ly by Ed Cobmes. The accelerating tube was a more ticklish proposition and took about two years to perfect. Schager, Vitter, and Alex Petrauskas, E.E. '31. 
M.S. '38, deserve credit for their persis­tence in connection with this job. 
The work of the Department, under the direction of Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., A.B. '24, A.M. '29, who studied for four years at the California Institute of Technology, is progressing as rapidly as resources permit. Funds are needed to expand the equipment for further de­velopment, the work so far having gone to its present high degree through the economy and initiative of the members of the faculty and the graduate students. 
The new generator, which will step up experiments greatly, is the result of local design, worked out by the Department 
. imder the leadership of Prof. Collins, and Bernard Waldman, Ph.D., Fellow in Physics, who joined the Notre Dame group last year after receiving his Ph.D. from New York TJ.) 
The Department of Physics Is Con­structing a 7,000,000-Volt Generator 
By GEORGE B. COLLINS. Ph. D. 
Associate Professor of Physics 

For the past three years the Departs ment of Physics at Notre Dame has been conducting research in atomic disinte-
The 1,800,000-ToU Renerator used for at-m sra^ih­inff experiments. In the foreKroand is the chmrxinr belt and to the left is the mcceleratinff tabc down which electrons are driven. 
A disdlarEC from the xeneiatbr's ball t» tiK Eronnd takinr place alone one of the 22-foot sap­portinff colomns. 
gration, the technical term for what is popularly known as atom smashing. A 1,800,000 volt generator has been used for these experiments and especial atten­tion has been given to the effects of powerful X-rays and electrons on atoms. The result of this work has been to open up a new field of research of such prom­ise that the department is now construct­ing a new generator of the same type which will produce about 7,000,000 volts. 
All this is going on because atomic disintegration is at present one of the most important branches of physics and one which will certainly find many prac­tical applications in the near future. The fact that these rather expensive experi­ments are being carried on also shows that the administration believes that sci­entific research should be earned on here. 
Before proceeding further, it may be well to answer a question which is fre­quently asked of scientists by laymen, concerning the practical importance of pure scientific research. The question freqenntly takes the form: What is re­search good for? The best way to answer this question is to tell a classical story about Michael Faraday. This famous English physicist in his laboratory one day was performing some apparently trivial experiments with some small bat­teries, coils of wire, and electric meters, when a visitor asked this same (jnestion, "What good is research?" Faraday's an­swer was: "What good is a baby?" This story is particularly significant since the experiments he was performing were the beginning of all our present day dectrie power systems and radios. 
The science of atom smashing will follow a similar course. At present, phy­sicists are learning how atoms are put together, and, as soon as this is well understood, practical applications will follow. Indeed, several practical applica­tions have already been made. Radio­active phosphorous made by atom smash­ing machines is already being used to cure cancer of the blood, and other radio­active substances are being used to aid biologists in their study of life processes. On the ofBng there is also the much dis­cussed Uranium 235 with its promise of 
new sources of energy. But even if no practical applications develop, most of us believe that to find out how atoms are put together is sufiicient justification for the expense and work connected with these experiments. 
Atoms are smashed, as might be sup­posed, by hitting them with high speed projectiles. The projectiles in our case are electrons, and to speed them up, it is necessary to have a very high voltage. That is where the generator pictured on this page comes in. This generator is charged by two endless belts and after it is charged, electrons liberated in the big ball are driven down the long tube .which in the picture is seen surrounded by numerous hoops. This tube extends into the adjacent room, where the elec­trons then strike whatever material has been selected for the experiment. 
Changed Into Helium Gas 
In a recent experiment, the substance bombarded by the electrons was the little-used metal, beryllium. In this case a little of the beryllium was changed into helium gas. The importance of these ex­periments lies in the fact that for the first time it was demonstrated that elec­trons can disintegrate atoms and this fact is then the basis for a better under­standing of both atoms and electrons. 
Now atoms are small entities and so are the electrons which constitute the projectiles, and this means there are a lot of misses for each effective hit. The amount of beryllium changed into helium gas was thus unbelievably small. Even umder the most favorable conditions, when big atom cores are used as projec­tiles, there are ten million misses for one effective hit, and when small electrons are used as at Notre Dame, there are at least one hundred billion misses for every hit. This means that there is no way at present of changing appreciable quanti­ties of one substance into another. For example, mercury has been changed into gold, but in such small quantities that the process has no commercial value. 
Let us follow through one of the ex­periments performed here to get a gen­eral idea of how research of this type is carried on and to show what kind of results are obtained. First, however, it is necessary to answer another question which is frequently asked. The question is: "How do you know when you have smashed an atom?" The answer is that usually after an atom is smashed, one of the pieces is unstable and emits a ray or a particle in a manner similar to radium. The atom is then said to be radioactive, and it is by means of this radioactivity that the smashed atom is detected. The detecting is done by allow­ing the ray or particle to pass through a special vacuum tube, called a Geiger 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
tube, which is connected through a pow­erful radio amplifier to a loud speaker. If this loud speaker gives off clicks, it means particles from a radioactive sub­stance are passing through the Geiger tube and then, since radioactive atoms are present, some ordinary stable atoms must have been disintegrated. 
Now for the e-xperiment, and suppose we choose to see what happened when the rather uncommon metal indium was bombarded with fast electrons. Indium is a soft whitish metal that feels about like lead and the first step was to place a thin sheet of it at the bottom of the tube down which the electrons come. This is done in the room next to the big gen­erator. The generator was then put into operation by starting the motors which drive the belts. These belts, which travel about 50 miles per hour, carry electric charges up into the big ball, in the same way that escalators carry people to the upper stories of a store. As more and more electric charges are carried up the voltage of the generator becomes higher and higher and at its maximum voltage, loud sparks leap down the insulating legs to the floor. Before experimenting began, however, a steady voltage was obtained by lowering the voltage until all spark­ing ceased. Then, by means of strings of fish cord a device inside the ball was made to liberate a stream of electrons. These electrons as they passed down the tube were speeded up by the electrical forces produced by the high voltage until at the bottom they were traveling with a velocity nearly equal to that of light. At this point they struck the indium sheet. 
Protecting the Experimenters 
Before bombarding the indium with these electrons, blocks of solid leads, the size of building bricks had been piled around the indium. This was done to pro­tect the experimenters from the very intense and penetrating X-rays which are produced when the fast electrons are stopped. These X-rays are so intense the generator must be operated by re­mote control from a distance of 50 feet. The extreme intensity of the rays emitted by this generator may be appre­ciated by comparing it with radium. Eight grams is about the largest quan­tity of radium used in any one hospital, but the generator when operating at full capacity is equivalent to about 200 grams of radium. 
The indium foil was bombarded with the fast electrons for perhaps 15 minutes and then the generator was turned off. The indium foil was then removed and placed next to the. Geiger tube to see if the bombardment had produced any ef­fect. To our delight the loud speaker connected to the Geiger tube began to click away, indicating that the atoms of indium were emitting rays. This meant, of course, that the fast electrons from the generator had produced changes in some of the indium atoms. 
Further experiments here and at other universities have proved that the radio­active indium atoms, that is to say the ones which received a direct hit by the fast electrons, emit X-rays which corre­spond to those produced by a 350,000­volt X-ray machine. The radioactive in­dium atoms emit these X-rays not all at once, but slowly so that in four hours the intensity is reduced to one-half. 
Other elements were tested in a sim­ilar manner to see if they also could be made radioactive. Most of them gave negative results, except in the case of lead where a very short-lived radioactiv­ity of about 90 seconds half life was discovered. With higher energy particles which will be available from the new generator it is probable that many more elements can be made radioactive. 
AMiat will all this lead to? No one ex­periment is, of course, likely to be of great utilitarian value, but the cumula­tive results of all the experiments in atomic disintegration being performed by physicists ^vill certainly soon be put to practical use by biologists, chemists, geologists, and engineers. 



C. S. C. ORDINATIONS 
Holy Orders were conferred upon 14 clerics of the Congregation of Holy Cross on June 24, in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., former president of Notre Dame and now auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, oflSciated at the or­dination ceremonies. The young priests had just completed their theological studies at Holy Cross College, Brookland, 
D.C. They were the following: 
Rev. Elmer G. Gross, C.S.C, '36, Fuss-ville. Wis.; Rev. Bernard A. McCaffery, C.S.C., '36, Jackson Hts., Long Island, 
N. Y.; Rev. Roman S. LadowsW, C.S.C, '36, South Bend; Rev. John J. Marek, C.S.C., '36, Chicago; Rev. John J. McGee, C.S.C, '36, Detroit; Rev. John C. Burke, CS.C, '36, Peru, Ind.; Rev. Charles J. Mahoney, C.S.C, '36, Williamsport, Pa.; Rev. Alfred J. Neff, C.S.C, '36, Pamell, Iowa; Rev. Robert F. McKee, CS.C, '36, Malone, N. Y.; Rev. Henry A. Heintskill, CS.C, '36, MUwackee; Rev. Daniel Glea­son, C.S.C, '36, New York City; Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C, '36, Boze­man, Mont.; Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, '28, Olean, N. Y.; Rev. Walter J. Higgms, CS.C, Lynn, Mass. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . . 
MAHONEY, TRACK COACH 
William P. Mahoney, Phoenix, Ariz., was appointed successor to the late John 
P. Nicholson as Notre Dame track coach on July 11 by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University. 
In making the announcement, Father O'Donnell said, "Mr. Mahoney, assistant to the beloved John Nicholson of happy memory, is appointed coach of the track team for 1940-41. In this appointment the administration feels that the splendid record established by Mr. Nicholson \vill 
Coach Mahoney, '39 

be maintained and the fine traditions of our varsity track team preserved." 
Mahoney was graduated, cum, laude, from the Notre Dame College of Law last June. He had captained the track team in 1938, and had served as Mr. Nicholson's assistant until the latter's death last April 2. He also was promi­nent in campus activities. 
Mahoney showed great promise as a hurdler as a sophomore in 1936. He won monograms in 1936, 1937 and 1938, but a pulled tendon in his sophomore year ended his hurdling career. He shifted to the 440-yard run, and he ran with the mile relay team which set an all-time Notre Dame outdoor record of three min­utes, 17.5 seconds in 1938. John Francis, Joe Halpin and Pete Sheehan were other 
.members of that quartet. 
He was graduated from the College of Arts and Letters, inagna cum, laude, in 1939, having maintained an average of 92. He was president of the AVran­glers' Club, campus debating organiza­tion; and he was active in the Mono­gram Club. 
His work with the late Coach Nichol­son consisted mainly of developing the freshman squad, and Nicholson said that the frosh squad of the last season was probably the strongest in Notre Dame history. 
Upon Nicholson's death, Mahoney took over much of the technical side of the coaching of the track team, under the direction of older members of the ath­letic department staff. 
The Irish, with the worst prospects in several years, defeated Illinois, 71 to 60, for the first time in Notre Dame outdoor history, and defeated Michigan State, 79 to 52. Wisconsin won a triangular meet in which Northwestern and Notre Dame figured, the Irish taking second. Notre Dame held undefeated Marquette to a 71 to 60 victory. The Hilltoppers had the strongest team in their history. 
Biggest surprise of the Notre Dame season was victory in the Indiana State meet, however. The Irish collected 63% points. Indiana, favored to win, was sec­ond with 46% points, and Purdue was third with 31. 
SUMMER SCHOOL 
The highest Summer School enroll­ment ever attained by the University was set as a new mark last June as 1,167 priests, sisters and laymen pursued studies during the 22nd annual summer-session. 
This number eclipses the former record of 1,132, set in 1929. Registration repre­sented an advance of 81 students over the enrollment of 1,086 a year ago. 
A total of 87 students received degrees at the end of the session, 41 being con­ferred by the graduate school and the remaining 46 representing degrees from all other departments. 
A staff of 112 faculty members and 20 visiting teachers served as instructors. The Commencement address was deliv­ered by Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Ph.D. 
"Twelfth Night," one of the better known of the long list of comedies turned out by William Shakespeare, was enthusiastically received in a three-night run as a highlight of the Notre Dame Summer Theater group on the evenings of July 21, 22, and 23. The production was staged on the campus plaza before the Commerce Building by Summer School students in collaboration 'with a few members of the South Bend Com­munity theater. 
Capably directed by Robert Speaight, a faculty member and a prominent Gng­lish actor, who inaug^urated the drama project at the beginning of the Summer School session, tiie cast presented the rib-tickling romantic comedy -without the aid of stage scenery. A few props, con­trasting colored lights and lavishly con­structed costumes all lent an unusually dramatic atmosphere to the production. 
Raymond Wilmer, of Toledo, Ohio, sophomore in the Art Department, de­signed all costumes. Music of the 16th and 17th centuries was provided by an orchestra under the direction of Daniel 
H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music Joseph Stephen, a student from Longmont, Colo., was stage manager. 
NEW MATHEMATICAL COURSE 
Mathematics at Notre Dame, particu­larly in the g^raduate field, has taken on a widely heralded impetus with the lead­ership of Prof. Karl Menger, head of the Department, and the addition of sev­eral nationally known scholars in the last few years. Three news Ph.Ds join the Department this fall. Dr. J. L. Kel­ley, of the U. of Virginia; Dr. J. P. Nash of the Rice Institute, and Dr. Charles V. Robinson of the U. of Missouri. 
Dr. Menger is teaching this year for the first time a course in mathematical economics, which is attended by students of economics ~and students of mathe­matics. Last year Dr. Menger gave a series of bi-weekly lectures in this field at the Armour Institute in Chicago. 
Students in mathematics last spring organized a group, graduate and under­graduate, which meets to permit presen­tation of student papers in mathematics twice monthly. 
Two members of the Department have been promoted to assistant professor­ships. Dr. A. N. Milgram and Dr. P. M. Pepper. Prof. Pepper was invited to lec­ture before the mathematical biology group of the U. of Chicago. 
Henry Heintzberger, who received his Master's degree in mathematics in June, was appointed this year to an instructor-ship in mathematics at De Paul U., in Chicago. 

STUDENT NOTES 
(George L. Haithcock, Nashville, Term., the conductor of this department in this issue and in future issues of lSiO-41, received his A.B. in 1939 as a philosophy major. He is now seeking his Master's and will liave completed his work for it, he hopes, by next February. Meanwhile, he continues his labors in tite Univer­sity's Publicity Department, where he has been stationed as an assistant to Tom Barry, '25, since 19S5. Tliat publici­ty background, coupled nnth three years on the "Scholastic," give him just the right material and "touch" for the bene­fit of "Alumnus" readers.) 

GOING UP 
This freshman was tired and weary, as all freshmen are after having gone through the rigmarole of registration— unpacking, getting laundry numbers, dining hall cards, athletic books, class cards—all in one day. He lived on the fourth floor of Cavanaugh. He entered by the side door to retire to his room. Judging from the present what the fu­ture might hold for him at Notre Dame he looked downcast. 
On the wall next to the ehapel en­trance is a sign which reads, "Push the buzzer, save your steps." (This device is especially for those escapists who sig­nal the priest in the outer office, dart through the side door, and arrive in the confessional before the confessor enters from across the hall.) To the sad fresh­man it meant something else. 
He buzzed the button. Nothing hap­pened. Again, and still nothing hap­pened. Somewhat astonished he hailed an aproaching senior, 
"Where's the priest who runs the elevator?" 

FLYING HIGH Seventy Notre Dame students will receive flying instructions under the Civil Aeronautics Board program which is to begin about Oct. 1. Fifty will be primary students who will receive pre­liminary training preparing them for a private pilot's license; the remaining 20 students will be offered a course open only to those who took preliminary in­struction the past simmier. The student must be at least 19 but not 26, and must have completed at least one year of college work. 
RIGHTING THE PRESS The American press is a sick entity. It has been ailing for some time and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

By Georse L Haithcock, '39 
few of its self-applied remedies have 
produced any favorable results. Believ­
ing that worthwhile suggestions from 
the college student would be of great 
assistance, Richard Eeid, editor of the 
New York Catholic News and former 
Laetare Medalist, established awards 
to be given annually to the students 
writing the best letters of commenda­
tion or criticism to any newspaper or 
magarine in the country. Last year's 
winners who have just been announced 
are: Jose VUIo Fanganiban, Batangas, 
Fhilippine Islands, first prize, other 
awards going to John W. Fatterson, 
Fittsburgh, Pa., and William McGowan, 
Oakville, Conn. 
WELCOME, LADIES 

Ladies at last! They weren't first. A University tradition, 99 year old, will be broken when women-folk attend the Kockne banquet, one of the features of Rockne week, Sept. 29-Oct. 5, to be hdd in the University dining hall. In its entire history the University has never admitted women to public banquets on the campus. Women have been admitted to the University cafeteria and women's groups have held private parties on the campus grounds, but never has a women been admitted to a banquet sponsored publicly by the University or given with its cooperation. Total attendance, the fairer sex included, has been limited to 1,000 persons. 
THE KNIGHTS 
Knights of Colimibus began their 31st year of campus activities with a head start, as usual, with installation of offi­cers the first week in the council cham­bers in Walsh hall. . . , Robert E. Sulli­van, Helena, Mont., is grand knight; John F. O'Loughlin, Bangor, Me., deputy grand knight; Raymond J. Kelly, De­troit, Mich., chancellor; Edward P. Reidy, Lorain, Ohio, recorder; William 
D. Gagan, Seattle, Wash., treasurer; Robert J. Doran, Danbury, Conn., war­den; William O. Regan, Wharton, N. J., advocate; Louis F. Buckley, '28, Notre-Dame, trustee; James C. Brutz, Warren, Ohio, and E. Doyle, Morristown, N. J., guards; Ralph A. Gerra, Brooklyn, 
N. Y., lecturer J. J. Tushaus, spedal agent of the supreme council, was honor guest at a later meeting. 
HERE AND THERE 
Sorin hallers are enjoying a diversion from fixed dining hall menus with per­mission to use Caf books. . . . Alumni boys are eating in the former faculty dining room upstairs. . . . Because of the infantile paralysis epidemic ia South Bend the "no swimming" poster was displayed on St. Joe lake pier during a recent warm spell. . . . Brother Cole­man, C.S.C, is still very much on duty to see there's no breaking the law. . . . The Notre Dame Modemaires, campus dance band, are back again under the baton of Bob Richardson, Ottawa, 111. . . . The music makers, all Notre Dame students, played last year at the football victory hops as well as some club shin­digs. . . . They also saw action this past summer at New York's Glen Island Casino, Hotel Statler, and several lUinoic beach resorts. 
Student missions were conducted by Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, known by oldsters and youngsters alike as one of the most popular priests about the cam­pus, and Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., out­standing promoter in the field of Catho­lic Youth Action. . . . Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, former head of the Eco­nomics Department and more recently a member of the Mission Band, has re­turned to the University to conduct classes and directed the third annual mission for the lay faculty, Sept. 23-28. 
MORE OF THE SAME 
Band Director Joe Casasanta is cheer­ful these days and sees a successful year ahead for his organization. . . . More than 100 ambitious horn-blowers an­swered his first call. . . . Rehearsals of drills and formations are held daily on the field just south of the gym. . . . Blitzkrieg tactics were brought home to a foursome on the golf course recently when a bolt of lightning struck a fence on the fairway and knocked the golfers for a loop... . Nobody was hurt but the scores which would have soared anyway. ... The Scholastic made its first appear­ance of the year on Sept. 20 under the editorship of William McGowan, Oak­ville, Conn. . . . This is its 74th year of publication, the first issue being put out in 1867. . . . New cement walks have re­placed the cinder paths or old concrete 
.in front of Howard, the Library . . . from the Postoffice to Sacred Heart Church .. . in front of the Architecture building and from Breen-Phillips to Sci­ence Hall Shed a tear for the storied 
days of Notre Dame street cars. They, and all other South Bend street cars, have disappeared. Instead we have shiny new buses that zoom down Notre Dame Avenue and turn around at the main entrance to the campus. Tempiis, as the man said, fugits. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

New Printing Plant Begun 
"Ave Maria" Replaces 75-year-Old Structure 

Ground was hroken on July 24 for foundations of a new Ave Maria print­ing plant, operated at the University hy the priests and brothers of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. 
The modem daylighted structure will replace ths 75-year-old building erected by Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, in 1865 with bricks made by brothers of the community. 
Present plans call for a one-story building 170 feet long and 140 feet wide to be located immediately north of the University heating plant, along the Eddy St. road. It will be equipped with modem presses and laid out in a manner which will permit a streamlining of most printing operations. 
The first shovel used on the excava­tion was wielded by Rev. Patrick J. Car­roll, C.S.C, editor of the magazine since 1934. Giving directions was Thomas L. Hickey, the building contractor, who learned the printing trade in the old Ave Maria plant shortly after the turn of the century and is still remembered in that profession as the first monotype operator in Indiana. 
The Ave Maria is the oldest Catholic magazine of its kind in the United States and was established to promote the cause of religion by special devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary.­
Father Sorin himself acted as first edi­tor and then turned the editorship over to Rev. Neil Gillespie, C.S.C, who served for nine years. 
In 1875 Rev. Daniel E. Hudson, C.S.C, took over the helm to begin a career vxi­paralleled in American journalism. Under his brilliant guidance, which lasted for 54 years, The Ave Maria at­tained world-wide prestige. 
At the time Father Hudson took over the editorship his oflSces looked out upon an Indian village and the redskins often came to watch him at his work. 
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, professor of English, succeeded Father Hudson as editor in 1929 when the latter was forced to resign his journalistic duties because of age and ill health. 
In • 1934 Father Carroll, writer and poet, became editor and today The Ave Maria has a weekly circulation of more than 30,000. 


NEW SERVICE FOR ALUMNI 

Most Catholics need, for themselres or their friends, good, brief answers to the major problems of the Church or the practice of the Faith. 
They are, unfortunately, not always easy to get. 
Pamphlets have been increasing in nimiber, and many of them are excellent. But the field is crowded with them in some directions, almost barren in others. 
Notre Dame students, who wrote ai pamphlet "No Smut" and have seen it go to a 6th printing, with a distribution of 125,000, have expanded their work. 
Invited to become members of the Jiew National Federation of Catholic College Students, and to hold the chairmanship of a National Commission on Decent Lit­erature, the students are launching on the campus the elaboration of this pro­gram. 
As a part of it, Notre Dame alumni who wish pamphlets in the major field of Catholic doctrine or thought—^What Catholics Believe, The Divinity of Christ, The Doctrine of Indulgences, Faith and Science, Papal Infallibility, children's pamphlets. Capital and Labor, Birth Control, vest pocket prayerbooks, and hundreds of others from the active presses of the Paulists, the Ave Maria, Queen's Work, S t Anthony's Guild, etc. —^may secure these by writing to: The Notre Dame Student Commission <m Decent Literature, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Students will contribute all the work of selection and distribution. It is hoped that requests wiU be accompanied by the money or stamps necessary to cover the actual cost of the pamphlets, which usually cost ten cents for a single copy postpaid. 
Here is opportunity to continue that spiritual informing, wherever you are, which was so vital a part of the training for life, while you were on the campus. 

OLD-TIMERS REUNION 

Monogram winners of the years 1918 and 1919, in all sports, have been invited by the Athletic Association to attend the Georgia Tech-Notre Dame game. The monogram men will be guests at a ban­quet on Friday night at the University, following the student pep meeting, and win also he guests of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph VaUey at the smoker Friday night. Invitations were sent to all men of these years for whom the Alumni Office has current mailing addresses. 

GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From the Aluminum Company of America, New Kensington, for the department of Metallurgy. An experimental rolling mfll of laboratory type $1000.00 
From Hon. Edward P. Carville, '09, Governor of Nevada, for student welfare. 50.00 
From Jack Bailey, Benton Harbor, Michigan, for the College of Commerce. Personal library of advertising. 
From Messrs. Shane Leslie, LL.D., London, England, and Robert Sweeny, '03, London, England, for the archives of the Uni­versity. "English Cardinals," bound collection of autographed docimients and letters of eminent English churchmen from 1787-1893. 
From Mr. John M. Duncan, Chicago, Illinois, for the University museum, in accordance with the wish of his deceased brother, Mark Duncan, '15. A ballot box used in the election of Abra­ham Lincoln. 
For the Roclme Memorial 
From June 20 to September 26, incliuive) 
J. A. Kennedy, Valparaiso, Ind— 
William F. Lomasney, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
A. H. Abrams. Chicago-
John A. Cooney. Boonton, N. J.. 
John F. Bums, San Francis 
William J. Cahill. San Francisco. James F. Cone, Oranere, N. J 
Football Ticket Committee, Notre 
Dame, Ind. '. 
(Sig.) 

-t 2S. The Frances Shop, Inc., South Bend, Ind. _ 60. 6. 
Walter J. Boettner, Sooth Bend. Ind— 125. 
10.  
S.  
S.  Total  -t239.92  
E. I.  Previous Total .  -$261,8T6.6S  
8.92  Grand Total .  -tueuiesa  

 J. HUGH CDONNELL, C.S.C., President. 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. "32 





ATHLETICS 
"We won't know what we have until we've played three games." This is Coach Elmer Layden's opinion on 1940 foothall prospects. Layden readily admits that the first three games will give the Irish an ideal test. 
"Coach A. A. Stagg of Pacific uses a lot of formations. Our kids will have to learn to shift fast to meet these vary­ing offensive designs," says Layden. "Georgia Tech uses trick stuff and fills the air with passes. Carnegie Tech is famous for a bruising power attack, and that will test our land defenses. The only catch is that by the time we master this three-way defense we may have lost three ball games." 
The Notre Dame Thin Man, who rode to glory at fullback with the 1924 Four Horsemen, a unit that combined speed, cleverness, passing and running to top offensive advantage, allows that the Irish passing attack may be more prominent this year than last. 
"We have better passers, so we'll pass more," he promises. "But that doesn't mean we won't work on running. We're still a blocking and tackling team. A passing offense requires the balance of a sound running game, and vice versa." 
According to the experts, the Irish are headed for a great season. Layden is justified in being somewhat more con­servative. There are, as usual, question marks galore on the scene. But there are other spots Layden and his assistants can practically forget about. 
Ten of last year's starters are gone. No letterman is available at left end or center. Replacements are needed at right end, quarterback, left half, and fullback. 
Tom Gallagher, only returning regu­lar, heads a group of tackles unequalled —^as a group—since the days of Kurth, Krause, Kozak & Kompany. Under him come Jim Brutz, junior letterman, and Lou Rymkus, giant sophomore who rated No. 1 ranking for a while this Fall. At right tackle are Junior Lettermen Paul Lillis and Cliff Brosey, plus two husky sophomores—Walt Ziemba and Bob Neff. 
Capt. Milt (Moose) Piepul played con­siderably with the first team last year, under Joe Thesing, three-year regular, putting in almost as much total playing time as Joe. He led the team in scoring and total yards gained. His average of five-plus yards was second only to Benny Sheridan's. But the drop-off below Piepul is so marked that Bemie Crimmins, Louisville junior who won his sweater under Lou Zontini at right half in '39, is getting a trial at fullback. Al Lee and Bob Leonard are senior reserves with possibilities, and Harry Wright appears to have the edge on the other sopho­mores. 
Bob Saggau, who started about half of the 1939 games, would have been the starter at left halfback last Fall but for 
' Top to bottom: Captain and Fullback, Milt Piepul; Guard, Pete Kelly; End, Johnny O'Brien. 
a series of minor injuries which kept him below peak efficiency. Early drills indi­cated that he has his old vim and vigor back again, plus two years of valuable experience. Harry Stevenson, Jr., and Ben Sheridan will be missed. A great year for Saggau might mean a great year for the Irish. Owen (Dippy) Evans, South Bend soph, is right on Saggau's heels at this writing. He's a three-way threat, and he and Saggau stand alone among their rivals on the basis of speed. Bill McGannon, senior reserve, Don Ho­gan, junior reserve, and Sophomores John Warner and John Peasenelli round out the list at this post. 
Right halfback prospects have engen­dered such a feeling of security that when Crimmins was shifted to fullback, Tom Miller, best sophomore righ half, was moved to right end (later to left end) to bolster graduation-riddled spots. That leaves Steve Bagarus and Steve Juzwik in a lively scramble for the start­ing post, with both likely to see action. Crimmins can come back if needed. Joe Prokop, junior reserve, should go places once he untracks himself, as he did last spring. Dick Creevy and Bill Earley, sophs; and Thad Cassidy, senior reserve, are other likely prospects. Juzwik came fast as a runner last fall, and Bagarus is established as a runner, passer, and receiver. 
Moving to quarterback, the graduation of Steve Sitko may prove to be the most dama^g single loss of all Bob Har­g^rave, brilliant '39 sophomore, may equal or surpass the deeds of Sitko, but the team won't be as strong with only half of this sharp-blocking parley on hand. Tony Girolami, sophomore who is crowd­ing 200 pounds; Jackie Hayes, Walt O'Meara, Bob Koch, Patten, and Frank Doody all have a chance, with Hayes having shown the most early improve­ment. 
A backfield composed of Hargrave, daring, intelligent, inspiring leader; Sag­gau, a triple-threat phantom; Bagarus or Juzwik, with speed and passing abil­ity; and Capt. Piepul, probably the best all-around fullback in the nation, includ­ing John Kimbrough of Texas A. & M., seems to have everything. One injury, however, might smear the whole beauti­ful picture. That's why the Thin Man stays off the limb. 
Returning to the line, Joe Boland has a wealth of adequate g^iards. There's Pete Kelly at left guard to carry on for Joe DeFranco. Under him come Bob Maddock, Ed Sullivan, and Henry Schrenker, husky reserves. Kelly is an inconspicuous •— because efficient — ball player's ball player. 
Let's talk about right guard, and Johnny Gubanich, 160 pounds of ail-American timber, backed up by 170­pound Joe Laiber, and huskier Herky Bereolos and Howard Korth. Gubanich and Laiber will give away from 20 to 60 pounds a game, but theyll do all right. Johnny has won two monograms in two years, a better record than any other lineman his size in Notre Dame history. Even 154-pound Bert Metzger didn't make it until his last two years, and, with all credit to a great all-American, Bert was here five years. Gubanich and Laiber have Metzger's same qualities of smartness, speed, and courage. Now they have the experience they need, and they should have a great season. 
At the ends and center, Johnny O'Brien, right end, is the sole letterman returning out of eight men who won sweaters. Bud Kerr and Frank Biagi were graduated, and inflammatory rheu­matism laid Pete Arbeit low during the summer, riddling the left end post. Capt. Johnny Kelly was graduated, and How­ard Petschel, fine reserve sophomore of last year, joined the Flying Corps, so right end has been weakened. John Mc-Intyxe, Jack Finneran, and Al Mooney, last year's three monogram winning cen­ters, were graduated. 
But is Layden blue? He says, "Don't sell those ends and centers short. We haven't seen them under fire, and the chances are they'll make some mistakes at the start. But watch them develop. There's great spirit all through the squad, a willingness to take the bumps and to learn. No, sir, don't ever give up on those boys." 
Bob (Big Stoop) Osterman, Detroit senior, lacked only experience last year, and he's going to get that, probably at the No. 1 ball-snapping post this fall. John McHale, Detroit soph, came up from the fifth to the first team (while Osterman was hurt) in his first scrim­mage. Martin O'Reilly, Chicago junior, has a little trouble with his passing, but he appears to have the makings. Tom Brock, sophomore, brother of Nebraska's Charlie Brock, has shown considerable promise. Jim Ford and John Mortell, '39, reserves, also bolster this position. 
(Jeorge Bassas, senior reserve left end, managed to get hurt the first days of contact work, but should be in good 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
r3 

repair by the time this is printed. Mean­O'Brien. George Hnrphy, brother of 1937 while Bob Dove, Yovmgstown sophomore, letterman^Johnny; Norman Barry, Jr., drove up to the first team, just ahead of whose dad was a baseball and football Phil Sheridan, senior reserve. Roy (Lil' star two decades ago; and Dick O'Brien, Abner) Ebli, junior reserve, and Tom' no relation of John's, are all sopho­Miller, the former right halfback men­mores. tioned near the beginning, also show 
If Capt. Hilt has any influence with 
promise. Miller is the son of M. Harry 
his mates, as he nndoubtedly has, it may 
(Red) Miller, '10, captain of the 1909 
become a memorable season. He says, "I
conquerors of Michigan, and a nephew 
never saw a better bmich to work with. 
of Don, Walter, Jerry, and Ray. He's the 
There will be plenty of spirit on the club. 
first of the clan to play in the line—^but 
I only hope the boys don't get over-,
being a wingman wasn't his idea. 
confident because I know we have a Johnny Kovatch is the only experi­tough one every week." With that sort enced right end on hand besides Johnny of an attitude, the Irish may roll. 
1940 Notre Dame Varsity Football Roster 
Name Pos. Home Tawn PnpantoiT SdMol AxeWsl^ Ht. Ex. 
•Basarus, Stephen Michael RJL South Bend, Ind. Washington H. S. 21 163 5:11 1 Barty, Norman John E.K Chicago, IlL Fenwiek. Oak Park 19 175 0
5:8H 

Bechtold. Joseph Hubert R.T. Sioux Falls. SJhik. Washington H. 9, 21 205 6:2 1 Bereolos, Hercules R.G. Hammond, Ind. Hammond H. S. 21 203 5:11 1 Brock, Thomas James O. Colombos, Nebr. Kramer H. S. 20 195 6:1 0 
•Brosey,
 Henry ClifTord K.T. Ozone Park, N.Y. BrooUyn Tech. 21 238 6:1 I 

•Brutz,
 James Charles L.T. Warren, Ohio Warren H. S. 21 215 6:0 1 Callahan, Thomas Francis L.E. Stamford. Conn. Stamford H. S. 19 175 6:0 0 Chlebcck, Andrew John F.B. St. Paul, Minn. St. Thomas Military 21 195 6:0 1 Creevy. Richard Cassell F.B. Chicago, III. Ht. Carmel H. S. 20 190 0 


*Crimmins, Bernard Anthony RJl. Ky,  Xavier S. 190 6:11 
Lomsville, St. H. 21 e-x 1 Doody, Frank Arthur Q.B. Oak Fbrk. IlL Fenviek H. S. 20 185 5:11 2 Dove, Robert Leo L.E. 
Yonngstown. O. Sonth H. S. 19 195 6:2 0 Earley, William Joseph RJL Parkersbnrg. W.V«. ParkersbDTg H. S. 19 180 5:11 0 Ebli, Raymond Henry L.il. Ironwood. Hich. St. Ambrose H. S. 21 200 6:2 1 
Evans, Fred Owen, Jr. L.H. South Bend. Ind. Riley H. 3. 19 180 5:11 0
Binghamton. N.Y. 
Ford. James Brendan G. Alientown. Pa., Prep. 22 200 6:0 1 
 m. 

••Gallagher, Thomas Chas. L.T. Chicago, Leo H. S. 23 205 6:1 2 Girolami, Anthony Gregory Q.B. Chicago. HI. Crane Tech B . S. 19 197 6:0 0
Phoenixville. Pa. 

••Gubanich, John Aloysius R.G. Pboenixville. H. S. 21 160 5:9 2 •Hargrave, Robert Webb Q.B. Evansville. Ind. BeiU Hemorial H. S. 20 180 5:11 1 Hayes. John William Q.B. Atchison. Kans. Haur Hill Prep 22 175 6:9 1
Chicago. 111. 

Hogan, Donald John L.H. St. Ignatios H. S. 20 195 6:2 1
Chicago, 111. 

Juzwik, Steve Robert R.H. DePan] Academy 22 188 5:8% 1
Peoria, III. 

Kelly, James Lavelle I1.G. Spalding Institute 20 178 6:10 0
Chicago, 111. 

•Kelly, Peter Mullen L.G. Fenwiek. Oak Park 22 192 5:10 2
Calumet City, HI. 
Koch, Robert James Q.B. Cath. Oent., Hammond 21 175 5:10 2
Chicago. 111. 

Kopshever, Ed Donald, Jr. R.G. Leo H. S. 19 138 5:8% 0
Saginaw, IGcb. 

Korth, Howard Joseph R.G. Saginaw H. S. 21 192 6:1 2
Sooth Bend. Ind. 

Kovatch, John George R.E. Washington H. S. 20 180 6:3 1
South Bend. Ind. 

Laiber, Joseph James R.G. Washington H. S. 20 170 5:10 1
Jacksonville, Fla. 

Lanahan, John Francis C. Imm. Conception H.S. 19 189 6:1% 0
Carlinville. HL 

Lee, Albert Bush F.B. Carlinville H. S. 22 190 6:0 2
Cincinnati, Ohio 

Leonard, Robert John F.B. St. Xavier H. S. 23 190 6:1 2
Mt. Vernon. N.Y. 
•Lillis. Paul Bernard - R.T. Bennett. Boflalo. N.Y . 19 205 6:2 1
Santa Ana. Calif. 
Maddock, Robert Charles L.G. Santa Ana H, S. 20 206 6:0 1
Boise. Idaho 

Maloney, John Malachi C. St. 'Hieresa Academy 23 195 6:2 Z
Evansville, Ind. 

McGannon, Wm. Vincent L.H. Philadelphia. Fa. Beitz Hemorial H. SL 21 175 5:9 2 
• McGoldrick, Owen Aloysius R.G. Detroit. IDeh. W.PhiIa.Cath.H.S. 21 180 6:11 0 
McHale, John Joseph C. Cath. Cent. H. S. 19 210 6:3 0
Midland, Pa. 

McNeill, Charles Edward P.B. Mishawaka. Ind. Lincoln H. S. 21 195 6:1% 1 
Michels, Andrew Jacob L.6. Hishamka H. a 20 180 5:11 0
Wilmington. Dd. 

Miller, Thomas Seeay TLB. Kankakee. 111. Alexis I. Dn^n t 19 192 6:1 0 
Mortell, John Edwin O. South Bend. Ind. S t Patrick's H. S. 22 185 6:0 2 
Murphy, George Edward R.E. Buckhannon. W.Va. Central H. S. 20 185 6:1 0 NefT. Robert Hudkins R.T. Swissvale, Pa, Buftkhannon-Upshnr 20 230 0 ••O'Brien, John Dennis R.B. Peoria. 111. Swissvale H. S. 22 189 t^ 2 
O'Brien, Richard Charles R.E. Stamford, Conn. 
Spalding Institute 19 180 6-.2% 0 O'Meara, Walter Charles Q.B. Chicago. HI. Stamford H. a 22 170 5:8 2 O'Reilly, Martin Gordon C. Detroit. Mich. 
Ht. Carmel H. S. 20 185 6:2 1 Osterman, Robert Thomas C, Fittsbursb. Fa. 
St. Theresa's H. S. 21 210 6:3 2 Papa, Joseph John L.T. Canton, N. Y. Kiski Prep 22 210 6:1 2 Patten, Paul Edward Q.B. Rochester. Pa. Canton H. S. 20 180 5:8 1 Peasenelli, John Joseph LH. Virginia. Minn. Rodiester H. S. 20 182 5:11 0 Bepelnjak, Nicholas Francis I,.H. Chisholm. Uinn. 
Roosevdt H. S. 20 185 5:11 1 Perko, Thomas William L-E. Chicaso. ni. 
Chisholm H. S. 19 190 6:1 0 Peterson, Elmer John R.T. Ihompsonville. Conn. 
Crane Tech H. S. 19 210 6:2 0 t**Piepul, Milton John F.B. HcAdoo, Pa. 2
Enfield H. S. 22 207 6:1 

Postupack, Joseph Victor P.B. Cleveland. O. HcAdoo H. S. 20 195 5:11 1 Prokop, Joseph Michael R.H. Stamford, Conn. CaUi. Latin H. S. 20 190 6:1 1 Rassas, George James L.E. Sioux City. la. Stamford H. S. 24 19S 6:3 2 Riordan, Wilbur Eugene Q.B. 
Altoona. Pa. East H. 9. 20 175 5:10 0 Rively, Clair Michael L.T. Chicago. 111. Altoona Cath. H. S. 21 200 6:1 1 Rymkus, Louis L.T. Denison, la. •niden H. S. 21 230 6:4 0 ••Saggau, Robert Joseph LH. Detroit, Hich. Denison H. S. 20 185 6:0 2 Schmid, Charles William R.T. Elwood. Ind. De La H. S. 22 6:9% 2
 Salle 183 Schrenker, Henry Pershing LG. Rutherford. N.J. Elwood H. S. 22 195 6:1 ? 2 Sheridan, Phillip Francis L.BL Belle Harbor. N.Y. St. Haly-s H. S. 23 187 6:2 -. 2 Sullivan, Edward Joseph L.G. 
Brockton. Ibss. St. John's. Brooklyn 20 198 5:10 1 Sullivan, Lawrence Pat L.T Springfield. HI. 0
Brockton H. S. 21 220 6:2 Walsh, Robert Michael L.G. New Haven. Conn. 0
Ckthedral H. S. 21 198 5:11 Cheshire Academy 

Warner. John Andrew, Jr. L.H. Santa Ana. Calif. 19 185 6:0 0 
Webb. Robert Bailey R.G Hempstead. IJX. N.Y. SanU Ana H. S. 19 185 5:9% 0 Wright, Harry Charles P.B Hanunond. Ind. Chaminade; Hineola 21 195 6:0 " 0 Ziemba, Walter John K.T. 
Hammond H. S. -21 230 6:3 0 *—^Indicates number of monograms' 
I—Indicates captain. 
» »


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
JOHN C. BURKE, warden of the Wis­
consin State Prison, Waupun, Wis., is one of the country's foremost execu­tives in his field. Young in years—^he was 3G on July 9—^he has already initi­ated administrative policies and methods 

John C. Burke, '31 
at Waupim which are widely admired and studied elsewhere. 
John attended Marquette University, Milwaukee, and the Eiver Falls, Wis., State Teachers College, where he re­ceived his bachelor's degree, and taught high school for three years before be came to Notre Dame in 1930 as a mem­ber of the class in Boy Guidance. Here he was president of the Boy Guidance class and a member of the debating team. 
In 1931, John was apopinted, after a civil service examination, to the position of a state probation and parole officer in Wisconsin. Sent first to the Ashland-Superior district of the state, he worked there until March, 1934, when he was assigned to the parole office at the Wau­pun prison. He was chosen as acting warden of the prison in March, 1938, and as warden in February, 1939. Both appointments were under civil service regulations. 
John is a fourth degree member of the Knights of Colimibus, a member of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, the Catholic Order of Foresters, Holy Name Society, Rotary Club and of numerous professional groups in his field. He is vice-president of the Central States Pro­bation and Parole Conference. He is married and has a son now seven years old. 
rpHB CONSTRUCTION of the new 
fifteen million dollar dry dock at the Navy Yard, Philadelphia.—one of the major projects of the National Defense Program—^is under the direction of a Notre Dame man. 
Well kno\vn as the popular personnel adjutant of the Student Army Training Corps at Notre Dame during the fall of 1918, Daniel H. Young, C.E. '22, is project manager of this gigantic under­taking that will employ 1,500 men at an estimated weekly payroll of §50,000. This work is being done by Dry Dock Associates, of which Dan's firm, Foley Brothers Construction Company, is a member. 
The responsibility involved in this operation is not new to Dan, as he, as a partner of Foley Brothers Construction Company of Pleasantville, N. Y., super­vised the construction of Pier No. 9, the Jersey City protection for the Holland Tunnel, and the excavation and anchor­age work for the George Washington Bridge. 
His company constructed 26,000 miles of railroad for the Canadian Northern, Canadian Pacific, and Grand Trunk rail­roads, and in recent years completed a 250-mile railroad, including bridges and stations, across the state of Florida, for the Seaboard Airlines. 
Foley Brothers is now building the tunnel luider the Hudson River to bring additional water to the City of New York. Dan worked on the Shasta Dam and the San Gabriel Dam in California, and made the estimates for the Dry Docks No. 2, and No. 3 at Honolulu, Hawaii. 
Bom in St. Paul, Minnesota, in 1897, Dan was graduated from the Cretin High School, attended St. Thomas Col­lege, and completed a year in Civil Engi­neering at the University of Minnesota. He was called to Camp Meade, near Baltimore, during the World War, to be in charge of concrete construction, and after a short stay there enlisted in the United States Army at Fort Sheridan, 111. 

As personnel adjutant. Second Lieu­tenant Young was assigned to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, taking up the duties there on September 26, 1918, and continuing at that post imtil his honor­able discharge in January of 1919, at which time he enrolled as student at the University. 
The day after his graduation in June of 1922, Dan became an inspecting engi­neer for the city of St. Paul and a year later joined Foley Construction Com­pany, of which he is now a partner. Dan is also treasurer of the Cornwall Sand and Gravel Corporation, Newburgh, 
N. Y. 
Dan married Loretta Rafter, who was 
Daniel H. Young, '22 

a fellow student of his at the Mechanics Art School in St. Paul. With their chil­dren, Mary, Daniel and Elizabeth, they are now living at 346 Wnydemere Ave., Drexel Hill, Pa. 
•pRANCIS J. CLOHESSY, LL.B '20, •*• Waverly, N. Y., is the latest Notre Dame alumnus to achieve exceptional distinction and honor as the leader of a national fraternal g^roup. He was, on July 2, elected supreme governor of the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Loyal Order of Moose, the highest elec­tive office in the order. 
Frank was bom in Waverly, N. Y., and received his elementary education there. He studied law and journalism at Notre Dame. Later, for several years he was employed in the editorial depart­ments of Elmira, N. Y., newspapers. 
Returning to his home to\vn, he be­came attorney for the village of AVaver­ly and held that office for 13 years. He is now serving his second three-year term as district attorney of Tioga Cotm-
Francis J. Clohessy, '20 

ty. He also has served as attorney for the Board of Education and School Dis­trict. He is a past president of the Tioga County Bar Association. 
Frank is a World War veteran, having served nearly two years through enlist­ment. He is a past commander of the American Legion post in Waverly, past president of the Waverly Board of Trade, and past president of the Waver­ly Rotary Club. He is a member of the Sayre, Pa., Lodge of Elks, the Waverly Fire Department, and the Waverly Sportsmen Club. 
His interest in the Moose was a natural one, since he was a son of the late Frank P. Clohessy, charter member and past governor of Waverly Lodge. Like his father, Frank Clohessy is also a past governor of the lodge. He has served as chairman of the membership drive and on other committees of the lodge and was in charge of the legal work in con­nection with the erection of the $150,000 Moose home in Waverly. In the Su­preme Lodge he has served on the judi­ciary committee, as chief justice of the supreme forum, supreme councilman, su­preme prelate, and supreme junior gov­ernor. 

Lay Retreat Breaks Record 
Participation of the Alumni Is Higher Than In Previous Years 
The 23rd Annual Lajmiens Retreat, held on the campus August 1 to 4, broke several records. Total attendance, 1400, was top figure for the general Retreat in the 22 years of its history. The second, closed Retreat, Aug. 4 to 6, attracted a larger group than a year ago, though much smaller in scope than the initial Retreat, 200 participating. Alumni par­ticipation, including the Board of Direc­tors (cf. Board story this issue), was higher than any previous year. 
The first Retreat was preached by Rev. Charles J. Flynn, C.S.C, '15. The second Retreat was preached by Rev. Walter A. Conway, C.S.C, '23. Assisting the two main preachers throughout the Retreats were Rev. Richard Collentine, C.S.C, '09, superior of the Mission Band, Rev. Jo-sept Hart, CS.C, '24, Rev. Leo Flood, C.S.C, '24, and other members of the 
^ Mission Band and the Cong^regation of Holy Cross on the campus. 
Following is a list of the alumni at­tending one or the other Retreat, as they indicated their attendance on cards placed in the halls by the Alumni Asso­ciation : 
Joseph Argus, Indianapolis; James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame; Gerald "Kid" Ashe, Rochester, N. Y.; John Bergan, South Bend; Andrew Bertoni, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Leo Bever, Somerset, O.;­Louis V. Bruggner, South Bend; Thomas 
F. Byrne, Cleveland; J. Patrick Canny, Cleveland; Maurice P. Conroy, Logans­port, Ind.; Edw. F. Conroy, Winamac, Ind.; Byrne Daly, Jackson, Mich.; F. J. Delaney, Jr., Burlington, Iowa; William 
R. Dooley, Notre Dame; Ray J. Eichen­laub, Columbus, O. 
Oliver Field, Springfield, 111.; James 
M. Flynn, Cadillac, Mich.; Edmond I. Foley, Chicago; Charles D. Gainer, Whit­ing, Ind.; E. A. Gausselin, Chicago George A. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. John L. Heineman, ConnersviUe, Ind. John T. Higgins, Detroit, Mich.; Daniel 
E. Hilgartner, Jr., Chicago; Thomas Holtz, Elkhart, Ind.; Frank C Homan, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Edward W. Irvin, Buchanan, Mich.; Thomas Jones, Indian­apolis; Frank Kalman, Jr., Elkhart, Ind.; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago. 
William M. Kerwin, Jr., Jackson, Mich.; James T. Kirby, Indianapolis; William L. Leppert, Indianapolis; Dr. 
E. M. Lipetska, South Bend; Bernard T. 
Loeffler, Indianapolis; Daniel L. Mad­den, Chicago; W. Joseph Maloney, Chica­go; Paul Manosld, Huntington, Lid.; William Martersteck, Jackson, Mich.; Eugene Mayl, Dayton, Ohio; Frank "Spike" McAdams, Chicago; Gladstone McDermott, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Fred C Miller," Milwaukee, Wis.; William J. Mooney, Jr., Indianapolis. 
Joseph W. Nyikos, South Bend; Wil­liam O'Malley, Chicago; Howard Y. Phalin, Chicago; John C. Powers, Cleve­land; Lester Rempe, Chicago; Gerald Roach, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Thomas Roach", Grand Rapids, Mich.; Wilfred de St. Aubin, Bethesda, Md.; W. Lawrence Sexton, Indianapolis; John B. Stephan, Chicago; G. Don Sullivan, Indianapolis; Raymond P. Titzer, Evansville, Ind.; 
A. T. "Van Dolman, Chicago; William E. "Voor, South Bend; Edward F. "Voorde, South Bend; Harry T. Waite, Jr., South Bend; John J. Wallace, Calumet City, 111.; Leo W. Walsh, Grand Rapids, Mich.; William M. "White, Springfield, HI.; James F. Young, Chicago, 111.; and Mark 
E. Zimmerer, Eokomo, Ind. 
NEW N. D. BOOKS 

Two new books have come, to the at­tention of the ALUMNUS too late for review in this issue. 
One is The Pivotal Problems of Educa­tion, by Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, '07, vice-president of the National Catholic Educational Association, pro­fessor of Education at Notre Dame. "The book presents a philosophy of education in line with the Catholic doctrine of Supematuralism. It is the first compre­hensive interpretation of basic education­al problems in terms of that doctrine." 
The second is Catholic Principles of Politics, by Rt. Rev. John A. Ryan, D.D., 
LL.D. '17, and Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, '18, newly appointed dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, and head of the Department of Politics. This work is a completely re­vised edition, with supplementary chap­ters on current problems, of the popular text on the Church and the State, written by Monsignor Ryan and Rev. M. F. X. Millar. 
Both books are Macmillan books ($3.00). Both will be reviewed in the November ALUMNUS. 
4i





ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO 
Uonel V. O. Smith, '33, 424 Blain St., Pres­
ident; John H. Travers, Jr., '33, 191 North 
St., Secntuy. Well, our summer slipped by before we realized that our club was about ready to settle down to the pleasant task of monthly meetingrs, luncheons, movies, etc 
Ron ZndedE. '30, went to Hawaii for a pleasant trip and came back with enough sarong to cover a football field. He says the natives down there are lovely and the scenery is **0h well, the natives are lovely." 
Frank Cass, our genial vice-president. '32. was married to June Meyers and spent his honeymoon traveling through the South. Smiling Jack Mc-Kendry, our conscientious treasurer, was married to Grace Maher. They honeymooned in New York 
cnty. 
L! Smith* our prex>', toured the country on his vacation and spent most of his time in California with the glamour girls from Hollywood. Reports were circulating about tliat Zanuck wanted him as a stand-in for Jeffrey Lynn. Oh well Li, wc are glad you came back even though you are a. punk sailor. Frank Reppenhafen and his brother won the Beck Trophy for snipes at the Buffalo Yacht Club this summer, shov^ing his pal Smith just how a boat should be sailed. 
Ralph Else has been a frequent visitor this summer and reports that all is going well with his" government job in Auburn. Ross W. King, of Worthington Fump, has been transferred to Buf­falo. We welcome him to our club and hope he will spend more time with us and less time' trav­eling back to New Jersey on week-ends. 
Yours truly has licen promoted from the audit­ing department to the sales department for the William Simon Co. and now bumps into quite a few of the lads also doing outside work. 
We are all working hard on our excursion to the Notre Dame-Army game. Nov. 2. Looks as though we are going to have a sell-out crowd from here. 
John H. Travers. Jr. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
BCchael J. Ledinc, '33. 1047 GiUcspie St.* Sdienectady, President; Edwin W. Kenefake, '34, 401 Union St , Sdienectady, Secretary. 
llie club had its annual outing with a sizeable group attending, on August 24. The event was of special note since the old tradition of "no women at our club functions" was broken, and it looks as though we won*t be able to keep them in the traces any longer. They loved it and are already talking about coming events with much enthus. iasm. However, people are putting a bit of a twist to their eyebrows when they note that our current club president. Blike Leding, was married June 15. Of course, we can't get any committ­ments from Mike on just how much bearing that had on the breaking of the tradition. 
Again Tom DoUard was kind enough to let us use his camp on Babcock Lake, east of Troy. The afternoon was spent playing games and consum­ing refreshments. In the evening everybody ad-journey to the Babcock Lake Inn for a turkey dinner and dancing. Through the efforts of Tom DoUard and IHike Leding, Jake Kline, who was coaching a baseball team in Vermont for the summer, came down for the outing. 

The 7940-7947 Alumni Board 

Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Notre Dame, Ind  Honorary President  
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Colmnbus, Ohio  President  
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas  First  Vice-President  
Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio  Second  Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong", '25, Notre Dame, Ind.  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  Assistant  Secretary  
Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, HI  Director to  IHl  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111  Director to 1H2  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich  Director to 194S  
William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind  .  Director to 1944  
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, IlL-«..  Ex-Offieio Director to 1941  

Joseph H, Mulqueen, '40, Notre Dame, Ind 
Those present were: Mr. and Mrs. Blicfaad Leding, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas DoUard, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Nardone, Mr. and Mrs. Jade Casazxa, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas HiUs. Mr. and Mrs. Devcr­aox. and Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Kcnefake. Also Anthony RineUa, Jr.. George Bittner, Larry-0*NeiU. John Peters, Robert McPadden, James GaUagfaer, Elmo Moyer, Joseph Madigan, Harold Rhodes, Nidiolas Amorosa, Frank KeUy, Harold Rodgers, Eddie Eckert, and Jake Kline. 
A few of us had the privilege of attending a preview of the movie *'Knute Rockne, All-Amer­ican" at Albany on Sept. 9 through the courtesy of Warner Bros. The purpose of the preview was for the initiation of plans for an event to take place here at the time of the premiere in South Bend. The picture held us all spellbound from beginning to end. Those of the club attending were: Mike Leding, BUI Casazza, John CampbeU, Jack Huether, Larry O'NeUI and Ed Kenefake. 
Ed Kenefake 
CHICAGO 
Thomas C. Donovan, '24. 134 S. LaSaUe St., 
President; J. Barry O'Keefe, '32, 111 W. 
Washington, Secretary. 
The annual golf tournament was held at Bunker Hill on July 25. It was a grand success. Over 50 prizes were awarded. Harry Baldwin successfully defended his championship "with a score of 79, and thus retained the Knickerbocker Trophy. Ned Kelly was the runner up. The committee who conducted the successful tournament was composed of Chairman Ed Meldiione, *32, BUI Steinkemper, '37, Fran Oelerich, '32. and John Dorgan, '29. 
The Army football dance will be held on Nov. 2, Jack Clark, '35 and Art Conrad, *33, the chairmen, promise to produce a super supper dance. ITiis affair will be one of the high spots of the fall season. Don*t miss it. 
Our club is very sorry to report the death of two great alumni, Mark L. Duncan, '15, and Joseph S. Pliska, '15. Mark was an officer of the club some years back. Joe PHska, as you all remember, was a great halfback, and teammate of Knnte Rocjcne. The club has arranged with the University to have Masses said for the repose of their souls. 
Barry 0*Keefe 
. Director to 1941 

CLEVELAND ComeUos J. Baffinjr, '32, Balkley Bldg.. 
President; Dr. Myron £ . Crawford, *32, I>e­

troit-Cook Bldr-* Lakewood, Secretary. Ed Carey headed the committee that planned and executed the second annual Stag Outing. July 13, held to welcome new graduates into local alumni ranks. The event was well produced, and excellently attended—a glad "hello" and "wel­come" to those '40 graduates who are entering seminaries and professional schools and to the one or two remaining with us. In particular, sure glad to see Johnny WUson and Ed Scfaroeter. old standbys. and to shake hands with Ed Casey and Jack Lyons, of Oregon. Welcome into the Cleve­land Club and good luck in the further pursuit of your studies and work (hurry home!) to Bob Grisanti, JadE HiUenbrand, Joe Sotak. Ray ZaUer. Bob Llebin, John Paj^e, Frank Payne, Bob Rothader, FhU Sandmaier, Jack KeUdier, and Charles Zegiob as they scatter to California, Re­serve, Youngstown, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Ann Arbor, Cambridge, and New York City. 
Low gross prize and the Winner's Cup were awarded to Larry Krai, '31, when he led a fast field to win at the Annual Golf tournament. Atigust 21 at Sleepy Hollow Country Club. Larry's splendid play brought him in ahead of such sharp-shooters as Joe Heimann, A] O'Brien. BiU Van Rooy, DickMcMonaxle, Bob Morrissey, George Kozak. and Ed CaldweU.-Striving for door prizes and here and there winning were John Morphy, Tom Conlcy, Blike Feighan, Harry O'Donnell, Dr. Frank Gannon, and Jack CoUins. Dick McMonagle and myself awarded the prizes and deserve prizes for ^^'inning none. 
The Summer Frolic of the Campus Club was held at the Tudor Room of the Cleveland . Club on Saturday, August 24. Bob Stack, campus club president, his committee, and Jack CoUins, of our Board of Governors, directed an outstanding sum­mer attraction. Thanks to Bob Stack, campus club-alumni club relations are more firm than ever. 
Rev. Bficfaael Moriarity has accepted the pastor­ate of St. Mary's Church in Mentor, Ohio. Father Blike. our chaplcun, continues in office. 
BiUy SnUivan, erstwhile N. D. first-sacker, at present Detroit Hger catcher, hitting .320, in­structed Father James Moran's Immaculate Con­ception SQUad in batting and fielding technique when he vi^ted that school August 13. Everyone 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
interested in major league baseball, particularly the Cleveland Notre Dame fan, is rooting for Bill, pennant or no. 
Otis Winchester, *29. and George Belting, *33, enter Our Lady of the Lake Seminary this month *—two good and loyal alumni, soon to return to us with renewed interest in Notre Dame activity in Cleveland. 
And so we drive into the next event, the Football Rally, interest in which is already being promoted by Joe Sweeny, Jack Reidy, and Clayt Leroux. 
"Grow with us in the Lay Retreat Movement," Sfike Crawford 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
Francis J. Rooney, *30, 81 Pierce Ave., Bridgeport, President; Edward P. Monahan, *34, 304 Bcechmont Ave.. Bridgeport, Secre-Ury. 

On June 4 we elected a new staff of officers for 1940-41. Frank Rooney is president, William O'Brien, vice-president and John Devine, treasurer. Upon me, once again, has devolved the position of secretary. Retiring from office were Attorney Robert Devine, president; John MoUoy, vice-presi­dent; Francis Herb, treasurer, and William Mnl­rennan, secretary. Thanks to these men for their parts in conducting the activities of the past year. 
On June 22 we held our fourth annual Notre Dame outing, a sheep roast, with softball games, horse shoes and other activities. The aff^r was both a fraternal and financial success and this outing is becoming a tradition in Bridgeport. 
We welcomed two new men in to our "gang," Elwood Lavery, *40 and Robert Bertany, 40. Lavery may be at Georgetown Law School. "Wher­ever he may be for the next three years, we want him to return as an active member upon comple­tion of his studies. Bertany has not yet come to a definite decision on future plans hut to him. also, goes the sincere invitation to "drop around" again. 
Of news in general at this time. Fran Herb is in Chicago where he is under a course of training with Comptometer, whom he represents in this area. Bill O'Brien hns secured a promotion at the Brass Company in Bridgeport. Tom Murphy has proven a successful general agent for Hampden Breweries. Joe Rosso is still trying to convince us that high school teachers only get paid for nine months work, and are left "out in the cold" during their very extended summer siestas. Rooney is still with General Electric and a bachelor. Frank McGee's wife recently had a daughter and we understand the national bank examiner feels mighty proud of the fact. 
We recently ran into Bntdi Pivamik and queried him as to why he had not appeared at our meetings. Maybe he is sensitive since a cop chided him for the manner he was driving a Ude Water Oil Company service car. Among the professional group Dr. Tom Tarosovic is kept pretty busy working in the City Dispensary, on the Bridgeport Hospital staff, and attending a lucrative private practice. Dr. Louis Gostaldo, gets "extra curricular** assignments as an Army physi­cian for the local enlistment bureau. 
Bob Devine is doing as well as an attorney in Norwalk and Attorney Jim Murphy has been prominently mentioned for a Federal judgeship. Last we heard of Jack Cox he was with Colgate Palmolive Peet in New Jersey, in the accounting division. We have seen little of the O'Mahoneys lately and cannot give you a report on them. Neither have we heard of late from the Biemes of Fairfield. Elmer Harkabns is a regular attend­ant at our meetings anad manages to get away from the managment of his Luncheonette and the fireside whenever there is anything doing. BiU Hnlrennan will assure you there is no investment like a John Hancock insurance policy. 
Bus Redgate is the town's leading funeral di­rector and is kept "on the go" attending to the needs of his clients. We have never seen much of his cousin, Russell, and have seriously considered "excommunicating" him. A short time ago D*c Scully was home from Columbia Medical School. We understand he has about finished his studies and before long will hang out his shingle. 
I am doing social case work in the department of public welfare in Bridgeport and trying to persuade Superintendent John GaUa tUat I need a raise to pay my delinquent alumni dues, and other essential obligations. 
Jf>e Regan and Jim Cole are still with the 
R.F.C. in Washington to the best of my knowl­edge. They are both married. Roger McCioTem is supervisor of the National Youth Administration in this area. 
Edward Monahan 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Loois a Mnrphy, *33, 9S2 Sheridan Av«^ Colambu, President; Alfred O. Vazley, ex. '26, 42 E. Gay St, Cobirabas. Secretary. 

June 6 was the date of the third annual Cen­tral Ohio Club outing, held at the City Club Country Club north of Columbus. Twenty-five members attended. 
The recreation ball game between two teams led by captains Jack Gcddes and Chet Rice-was a real contest for the first three innings. In the fourth inning Ray Eichenlanb, who had been umpiring, came into pitch for Jack Geddes* "Blue" team, whereupon Chet Rice's "Gold" team scored 14 runs. Both teams retired for refreshments, de­claring the game "no contest." Some of the outstanding ball players of the afternoon were: Joe Ryan, Harry Nester, Ed Kirwin, Judge Me-Bride, Tom Edmondson, John Varley, Pete Varley. Doc Hughes, Florian Ziegler. Jack Cannon, Tom Sheehan, Don Hamilton. 
Don Hamilton won the door prize for being the best-dressed ball player— Don showed up in a flashy green sport ensemble that made the grass look pale. 
A short meeting was held during the course of the evening, and it was decided by the members of the Central Ohio Club to have annual dues of $2 per year, payable on Sept. 15. 
The Central Ohio Club is attempting to revise the list of members in various central Ohio towns and would greatly appreciate hearing from any of the alumni in this territory. 
Bud Mnrphy 

DENVER 
Charies A. M. Haskell '29, 667 Birdi St. President; Edward F. Mansfield, *34, 19S2 Broadway, Secretary. 

Ed's note: Remember that Ed Mansfield sent us the following on June 19—^just too late for the June issue—and then read ahead: 
Jack Sheehan, '36, and Miss Teresa Guilfoyle 
WARNING! 
Notre Dame individuals and clubs everywhere are warned to be on the look-out for one "William F. Brownstein" who represents him­self as a Notre Dame man and who is, from.his conversation, fa­miliar with campus places and per­sonages. Mr. "Brownstein" resided for some months in Vincennes, Ind., but left suddenly, supposedly for his home in Albany, N. Y, He has not been heard from since. 

should be listed in the smitten column offidally, after a year and a half of keeping us guesung— a little. September -will be the time. Jack is chas­ing customers relentlessly for Crane-OTallon here. City salesman now. 
Bart CHara, '32. last fall's football train chair­man, and Elizabeth Ryan will become Mr. and Mrs. 0*Hara, June 25, at St. Fhilomena's here. 
Gene BHih. *U, is back with Colorado Milling and Elevator, after a couple of years'with layout pad, paste, and stissors. (That metaphorical mess is supposed' to convey an impression of adver­tising.) 
Floyd Grazier, ex. '37. left this month, after a couple of years at Colorado Mines, to -work in the fingerprint bureau of the F3 X in Washington. 
AI O'Mcara. Jr., Ja d Akelt. and TOM Tleraey have been at Denver University completing work on th^r degrees. Akolt and Tiemey are in law school. 
John FaDunberir, -who engineered at N.D. and MJ.T., came here from Kansas City to continue construction business in a new field, and has been a regular attendant at all our sessions. 
Boh Jadmoa, far-from-home cousin of the late Nokic Kxer, has one of South Denver's finest drug stores. 
Prexy Charlie Haikell was re-named advo^te by the local K. of C. council this month. 
Joe Rjran, '40, is our most recent sheepskin bearer to return to the West to hide from fame and seek fortune. We need 'em. and we're glad to see Joe offioally one of us. 
And Ed Wartx^adi of Denver pulled a speedy by moving right into the president's office at N. D. when he wound up that M.A. work in Apologetics. 
Mwn»l^H, in his June 19 saga, had numerous other pieces of club news. As changed by the passing of three months, ad^tioual information meanwhile and the editor's typewriter they were substantially as follows: 
Carrying on its tradition of super successful excursions to Notre Dams football games, the Denver Club -will this year run a trip to the Southern Cal game at Los Angeles. At this writ­ing the promotion for the journey is well under the way in the whole Colorado area, directed by John Hamphreys, as chairman -with H a Maiyn­han. Joe Bfyers. Herh FairaO, Jr., Bob Di ^ Bart O'Hara and Ed Mansield. 
The club's annual scholarship. dance was to be held on June 21, and, in the absence of a report to the contrary, probably was. ^Die Broadmoor Country Club was the scene and Arftar L. Ander­son, Jr., Ault, Colo., -winner of the club's first scholarship to Notre Dame, was the guest of honor. Art is now a freshman in the College of Engineering. The club scholarship comnuttee composed of Fred Gasliarst, chairman, ChaAe Haskell, Al Dosds and Bart O'Hara, did a grand job of selecting an outstanding boy. 
Ihe Catholic Action committee, composed of Gene Blisli, chairman, Ja d Sheckan. Ed Owens, 
A] Frantx and Al O'Meara, was trying to line up a Ketreat for a N.D. group at Kegis college, Denver. No report on that objective. 
Bob Windlwim, '40, is head coach at Abbey School. Canon Oty. Colo. George Chris, graduate student on the campus, put in the summer at a Denver community center. 
DETROIT 
Howard F. BCCCMBOT. ex. '0€, ISM U^ n Guidlan BU*.. President; Malcofaa F. Knaw, *2i, 423 Cartis BIdr*. Secictair. 

In spite of short notice 50 attended our opening dinner meeting of the new season at the Inter­collegiate Alumni Chib Monday night, Sept. 16. Particularly heart warming was the appearance of so many 1940 graduates, namely, Jim Bloore. 
BUI'HcKenna, Jim CIcary, Larry Barrett. Bemie Bbirray* Al Koss and Jack Curran. We'll make every effort to hold their interest and induce regular attendance. 
We have a few other newcomers to Detroit: VIC Schaeffner has moved here from New York City; Bert Baar is here from Chicago and staying at the Royal Palms Hotel; Billy SaUi\-an, catcher for the Detroit Tigers, is here for what we all hope to be a long stay. Bill, when called upon. gave a fine talk at the dinner. He said optimistic­ally that he wouldn't be able to see the opening football game, Oct. 5, because he expected to be playing in the World Series. 
Ed Haloney, whose Top-in-a-Bee Inn at Mullet I*ake is a noted vacation spot, attended with Howard Ellis. Ted Feldman wasn't feeling very well and left early. Larry Gemon lost at least 50 pounds, besides his appendix, this summer; all under the watchful eye of Dr. Neil Whalcn. Art Cronin has shrunk to a mere 250 pounds. 
Van Wallace and his father and Morrie Leahy were in from Mt. Clemens. 

Friends of Dr. Hanrey F- Brown will be glad to know he announced a new model, SepL 8, named Dennis Michael. Our president. Howard Becdunor, is busy at work on trips and special trains and new plans for the immediate future. He has lots of ideas to turn over to the incoming officers. Frank HcGinnis will be very glad to . relinoulsh bis post of vice-president so he can become acquainted with his family again which, incidentally, has gron-n to the respectable size of four daughters and a new son. 
Jade Hircins, our able attorney, w-ho did so much in guiding our Detroit club in its early youth, and who is now lending his experience as director of the Alumni Association, spoke in rela­tion to our placement activity. Orchids to Johnny Brennan. our placement chairman, for his splen­did, 'tigorous, successful work in finding jobs for our new crop of grads. He spoke highly of the cooperation he had been receiving from industry and particularly mentioned our own Al Davis, manager of the laboratory of the Detroit Diesel Engine Division of General Motors Corporation, who alone had taken three Notre Dame men. 
Jay "Biffy" Lee, whose outstanding work had so much to do with the success of XJmvcrsal Notre Dame Night, spoke very impressively. He had a real message to give the men starting out in their network—advice based on his own wide experience. 
* Malcolm F. Knaas 
GRAND RAPIDS Jowpk Boyland. '31. 611 Grand Bapidi Nafl 
Bank Bldr.. President; J. Thomas Campbell, 
'35, 407 Peoples Nafl Bank BIdg., Secretary-
The Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids held its first meeting this fall on Sept. 4 in the Fant­lind Hotel with 30 present, "nie issuing of tickets for the Iowa game activity was the principal business. Hie Rockne Memorial Fund will profit from this activity. We met many new men at the first meeting and hope to see them every month from now on. 
We found that our president, Joe Boj-land. Is still selling insurance and is doing very well. Don Lcvandoski, one of the hardest working boys for the club, is still with the Aetna Life Insurance Company and is also doing very well. Jay Dutmcrs is with the Arctic Ice Cream Company in Grand Bapids, in the sales department. He is selling more ice cream than the caf back at school. Joe Moore* a new member last fall, formerly of Detroit, is with the Detroit Ball Bearing Company. Joe says that business is fine; he even has to work nights getting out all of his orders. 
Aniold Levandoski, a graduate of Notre Dame's I<aw School, is still one of the assistant prosecut­
ors and has been handling a number of cases in the prosecutor*s o^ice. Bob Linaey 
GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) 
Louis J. HoUenbadi, ex. '37, Glencoe Distil­lery, Louisville, President; David W. Baird, ex. '31, 2517 Cherokee Parkway, I^onisnlle, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Greater Louisville sponsored a dance on August 31 at the Gypsy Village and the turnout was very gratifying. Some of the present students at the University attended, along with the club members and their guests. 
The club is organizing a bowling league, com­posed of members only, consisting of six teams and bowling every Tuesday night from October until March. The club feels that not only will tfiis league provide healthful exercise for the members, but that they will come to know each other better. 
David W. Baird 
New in Notre Dame club activity, and most laudable, is the accomplishment of the Greater Louisville Club in supplying the entire membership of a conference of the St. Vincent de Paul Society. 
TTie formation of a St. Vincent de Paul conference by men residing in several parishes of a city is a new development in the United States. Conferences are usually parish units and usually confine their work to parish boundaries. In the case of St. Mary Magdalen's parish in Louisville, how­ever, it was felt that, because of special financial problems, only a city-wide organ­ization would suffice. The Notre Dame Club responded. 
Ilie St. Mary Magdalen conference is uniane, it is believed, in having its entire membership drawn from a single organiza­tion. William A. Retsert, Jr. is president of the conference. Robert E. Wilke is vice-president. Hams J. Pope, secretary and Louis J. HoUenfaacli, Jr. is treasurer. 
HARRISBURG, PA. Joseph L. Rafter, '30, 808 Brooks Bldr., 
Scranton, Pa., President; John J. McNeill, 
'33, 2220 Chestnut St . Secretary. Things during the summer have been generally quiet since our club has adopted the policy of ho meetings from June to September.... But here's the news as far as I can gather about the boys around here. — Joseph L. Rafter, J.D., '30, resigned from his position as director of the State Library and Museum. State of Pennsyl­vania, so all the boys got together with the 
Villanova Club of which Doctor Rafter was also president and had a small testimonial dinner for him We arc all sorry to see him leave 
Harrisburg because without a doubt he was one of the most energetic workers we had to build our organization to its present place in the group of alumni clubs in Pennsyh'ania. 
The Notre Dame group had a small private meeting before the dinner and we discussed Bill Dooley's plans for student employment, all endors­ing the idea soundly.... and to top it oft the next day, Ed Smith, '02, phoned that he had a job waiting for a graduate in his division of Harrisburg Steel, so Bob Klaiber, '35 left the ranks of unemployed graduates We sincerely hope that we can do the same for each new graduate in this area. 
Walter Lutx, ex. '33, Joe Farrell, '15. and the writer have again begun work on the Catholic Forum for the 1940-41 season and among the speakers already chosen to appear are Monsignor f^ilton aieen, Maisie Ward, Frank Sheed, Father Daniel Lord and two other prominent speakers yet to be chosen We tried to get our Bishop O'Han to appear but his new duties have been so pressing that he had to tender his regrets. 
A new: i)ersonnel list for the Harrisburg. Club has just been completed and is in the mails to all men in this area.... should any man reading this fail to receive a copy please contact us and we'll gladly oblige Don Blartin, '33, of Pitts­burgh blew into town the day after Labor Day all married up... . looks fine and so does the bride. 
John J. McNeiU 
INDIANAPOLIS Aurast L. Bondi, "30, Hetropolitan Life Ins. Co., Rm. 207, 157 N.IIUnoU St., President; Elbert W. Hahoner, '26, 393fi Central Ave., SecretaiT-Indianapolis Club plans for the fall include a theater party and dance in connection with the local showing of the Rockne film and a special train to the Iowa football game. 
The theater party will probably be held Oct. II, a week after the original ox>ening of the film in South Bend. Gas Bond!, our honored prez, is trying to get Ronald Regan, who plays the part of Georre Gipp in the picture, for a personal appearance here for the occasion. Gus played football with Regan in high school in Dixon, III. 
A committee has been named to handle arrange­ments for the Iowa game si>ecial. consisting of Hany Scott, Joe Areas. Art Shea, Bob Kirby, Tom Blahaffey, Mike Foir, Larry Sexton, George Bisdwff, Bin Fox, Jr., Carley Ash, Pat Fisher and Al Soiith. 
The special will leave Indianapolis via the New York Central at 8 a.m. the morning of the game and arrive in South Bend at 12 noon. It will leave South Bend at 6 p.m. arriving back here at 10:30. The fee. $9.50, includes bus transpor­tation to and- from the stadium to the depot, ticket to the game, train fare and lunch. 
Nocfeert Spencer has been named chairman of publicity for all Indianapolis club activities. 
EL Hahoney 
JOLIET. ILLINOIS Clarence W. WiOulml, ex. '21, 909 Oneida 
SU Presklent; Edward H. Kinr. Special, 
301 Rahy St„ SecreUry. 
A very successful picnic was held on June 24. About 40 members turned out. 
JiMmy Martin of CoIIinsville, III., spent a week at home. Padcey McFariand is now connected with the Bethlehem Steel Co., in Quincy, Mass. Joe Adicr and family had a very enjoyable trip on the Great Lakes the last week of August. Clarence Wilhclmi and family spent Labor Day at the Canadian Soo. Joe Silk held a very pleas­ant vacation down in Quebec and Eastern Canada. We Nvelcome to our club Frank Gafflione, who is the new coach for basketball at Joliet Catholic High. Every success to him. Doc Mayer spent Labor Day down in Titusville. Pa. We extend our sympathies to Tom Feely on the death of his mother. 
Ed King 
KANSAS CITY, (Mitsonri-Kansas) J«hn J. O'Connor, '34, 4133 Merger St., 
Kansas City, Mc, President; Norman BL 
Bowes, '33, 5525 Rocfchill Road.Kans«s City, 
Ho., Secretary. 
Sept. 12, marked the first of the weekly lunch­eons on Engleman's Balcony for the Fall season. The presence of a dozen members lent an encour­aging note to the program. 
Jim Bfarrmy, Joe Stewart, and Bob Tyler have been tearing up the back nines of the local golf coarse this summer. Rumor has it that IVIer is about to give up golf, pool, pitch, and bowling— 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
all because of some nemesis knoA\ii only as "Hiie Brad." 
Pete Hess, *34, the old bandman. was here last spring at the convention of the National Catholic Edncation Association, representing one of the better book firms. Prof. Pat Hanion of the College of Iiaw» delivered the highlight speech of the convention. 
Tim Hojrnihan, '31, was in these parts briefly in August, headed for Denver. Joe Holbadt, '32, transferred here from Jersey City, is with the Air Reduction Sales Co. Joe Beckman and IJOU Alaman are now up in Iowa and Minnesota with Hall Brothers. Frank Inen, '32, spent part of the summer down in Florida. No word has been received from John HcGrath, '34, the Scdalia Boone, since that Ozark squirrel shoot. 
Joe Waller, '35, formerly of Kansas City, is said to be on the Pacific coast with some aircraft firm. Hal Qninlan, '36, has been ti^sferred to the Providence offices of the Employers* Liability Co. He will be missed here. Ed "Silent Smith" Mansfield, the Rocky Mountain Tarheel, took in a ball game here in June with us, and spent eight innings explaining how 90 per cent of the leaguers come from the Deep South. As he left town, he was conjuring up a plan to draw the DiHaggios from the Golden Gate to the bayous of Louisiana. 
Charley Higgins, '34, like another Ashurst 
facing the future with calm disdain, lay his 
primary defeat to "a fearsome combine of Tories, 
open-range cattle interests, the beet sugar trust, 
and the Jim Crow issue." It would seem that we 
have a likely protege for Charley Michaelson. 
Norman KL Bowes 

LOS ANGELES 
Charles S. Gass, *3I, 1225 (3tii*n« Natfl Bank BIdg., Los Angeles, President: Ifartlii 

B. Daly, ex. '28. 201 Denskiw Ave., W. Los Anicles. Secretary. There was no meeting for June but our July meeting, held August 1, was very successful. Lar­' ry Hoore was chairman, llie arrangements were made for the party through Bill Cook and Joe GaOagber. We had about 100 members present. Fred Sdinlte, '97, represented the oldest class, but nearly all the years from then on were there. James Kelly, '00. Steven Gavin and Joe Gal-lasher, '09, Hoot King and Bill Cook, '16, Leo Ward and Ed McMahon, '20. Jim BIcCabe, Charles Cnsac^ '22, Dong Daley and Charles Gass, '30, Lawrence Kennedy, '25. and Carroll O'Heara, *29. James HcGrath. '33. Sweeney Ta d and F. W. Scfaalte, '39, are a few I can place as having been there. Hie party started at 7 and about 11 the curtain rang down when Arnold McGrath, '22. Hnhert Klrdiman, '38. and Vince Doggan, 
*39. helped me shut up shop. Our special thanks to Bill Cook and Joe Gallagher. 
August 31 we had a picnic Charles Hnrphy. '28, was the chairman and did a swell job. It was held in Griffith Park. Despite the Labor Day week-end there were about 40 of the gang there. Ben Alexander, '33, wanted to come, but his wife bad JQSt come home with the new youngster, so he sent ns his greeting with Larty Moore. Mostly the same crowd showed up as for the other party. Ed Ashe. '25, was all set to come but his brother came in from the east, so he and Tom Ashe, '31, were among the missing. J. Albert Torribio, '36. and bis brother, who attended a couple summer sessions, were new faces to some of the crowd. Torribio. by the way is our representative to the committee for the Sixth National Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine to be held in Los Angeles Oct. 12. 13. 14 and 15. Rer. Ray-mend J. 0*Flaherty, D.D., '24. is head of the Or­ganizations Section for the Congress. 
Art Erra, '30, who had been our treasurer, had to return to Akron. Ohio, due to the illness of his mother. He does not expect to return here for at least a year and perhaps longer. We were sorry to see him go. No new treasurer has been ap­pointed as yet. I iust got word that WilUaM Thomas, '40. and George Wilson, *40, are now working in the aircraft business out here. 
Blarty Daly. 

MILWAUKEE 
Earl McCarron, '25» Home Owners Laan Corp., President; John E. Claader, 'U, 1219 

W. Vliet St., SecreUry. The big news of the club concerns the nnr^ffl club picnic held every year on the local *'day oS" during our State Fair. The boys gathered in droves at Chenequa Country Club to golf, cbia and eat. The Notre Dame atmosphere was cre­ated by the presence of several priests and brothers. Rev. Pat Haggerty, C.S.C. and BCT. John Devers, C.S.C came out from the Sacred Heart college at Watertown and Brother Vcmard, 
aS.C. and Brother Philip C.S.C. came out from St. Charles Boys Home (Milwaukee's Boys Town). 
The Notre Dame atmosphere was heightened by the presence of the two alumni secretaries, Jim Armstrong and BiU Dooley. We know they take no traveling lessons from the football team. Also on hand was Ed O'Toole from Chicago, who gives us lessons on placement. All three traveled from the Windy City to Milwaukee on the same car of the train, and unconscious of it till they reached Milwaukee. 
The atmosphere on the golf course was typically Notre Dame. ^Vhoops across the "mountain-high" hills indicated a birdie, a clean miss of the ball, or direct hit on another player. Foursomes joined together and whooped it up some more. Chariie O'Neill, local director of placement, "plays better when thirsty" and came within the bogey limit by dint of hints from the club director of Chicago. Lots of noise was heard when Gene GaUahini'a trio tried to find the last hole. Ed Hackett, a recent groom, was a winner in the private putting contest. Not all the noise came from bystanders when Jim Wheeler hit the pill. Hie ball, too, whistled. Low scores were on hand, but most of them went to men who were elected ofHcers. Blind bogey w*inners were BiU CoIUns, BiU Me-Cormick and the appointed scribe, yours truly. 
The school spirit was highly evident at the dinner call. By this time the crowd had Increased and two large tables hardly held the boys. Under the watchful eye of Bob Sanford, the fighting *40, class secretary, no free steaks went on the. books. Non-political were the appearances of Attorney General John Martin, piloted for the night "by John Roadi, and Earl O'Brien, a candidate for a county office. 
Non-political, too, were the elections for club officers. Fast president John Burke handled the club well during the year, adding a good deal of personal initiative. Declining a third term, he saw "Sol" McCarron, a fall groom, nonunated and unanimously elected. BiU Collins went in the old way. with t%vo ballots per voter. John Claadcr, perennial secretary and treasurer, was kept on the job by acclamation. Speeches were short, all too much so, and out of keeping with tradition. 
No attempt could be made to list the gang. Bab Lntz. recently appointed to an' important com­mission by our new boy mayor, caught some fish. Jim Matthews told about some big ones. Dad Pearson was almost pressed into duty as a caddy, but very gracefully stepped out. Two well known roommates of Walsh Hall. Jean |jBo«le and Bob Bedc, were on hand hoping Father Stack mii^t come. Don Gottsdialk was showing the boys how to play cards with finesse. Ralph Clarfc was remin­iscing of the old days, but could not stay late. Jim Fenlon, a faithful club member from the East, is picking up Milwaukee dialect along with a few steins. Many others were on hand and until a late hour. More news about them when we record our N.D. Club fall events. 
Faal Bnut 

MINNESOTA 
Frank Mayer, "27. Nartktn State FMar 
Ca., St. Pasl. Pmiirat; CMUII Milki—M, 
7M New Ymkk Blfc^ St. PU|, Semtuy. 

The Notre Dame Ahunni Club of Minnesota* formerly known as the Twin (Sty Notre Dame dab. held its sixth annual golf tonmanient on June 25, at Westwood Hills Golf Oborse near Minneapolis. Aj^iroximatdy 45 Notre Dame men and their &imds partidpated in this toaxnamcmt. A buffet sapper was served in the club hoose after the meet, at wUeh time Fmtk Mayer called on a number of those present to make a few remarks. 
Judge MariE Nalan, from Duhith, told some very faseinatins stories about his experiences at Notre Dame. Joseph 0*Hara. recently nominated for Congress on the Republican ticket in the second congressional district, was presoit and gave a short talk. The meeting was <me of the most successful golf toamaments ever held by the dob. 
During the last week in August. Frank Mayer lost his mother, Emma J. Mayer. She was living at Glenco^ IGnn., the residence of the Mayer family. 11i0 club was represented at the funeral ' services. 
Geerse Tbemaa McDermott 

NEW JERSEY 
Harrcy P. BeckwcQ. *U. IZtX Essex Have. 
IMS Broad SU Newark. President; Aadicw 
E. O'Keefe, -SS, Bex 3€3, New Branswick, Secretary. 

Introducing the new officers of the Notre Dame Clob of New Jersey z 
Our president, Harvey RoAwelL is that up^and­oiming gentleman who did such a good joib as secretary last year. He heads the photographic sales division of the Weston Electrical Instruments Corp. Judging by his enthusiastic work as secre­tary, we can expect bim to make New Jersey thoroughly Notre Dame consdous during the next year. 
Geo^e Wcnz, vice-preddent, hails tram. H^pM­town. Has always been active in ehxb affairs. Promises to break ail precedents by being vie^ preddoit and not being the forgotten man. 
Tom Treaccy, treasurer, is the first officer in recent years to be re-dected. ^lat fact speaks for itself. Tom pronuses that he wUl draw the purse-strings even tis^ter than they were last year, ffis June report showed a substantial betterment of dub finances during his first term. 
Past activities: The second annua] day at the shore outing was held at the West End Casino^ Asbnry Park, on Satarday, June 22. FUl Hdnls was chairman of the affair, and turned in a fine perfcrmanee. About 150 couples were present, and no long faces were to be found in the crowd. 
The 1940-41 season started off with a bang cm Sept. 4, when we bdd our annual Freshman Welcome party at the Robert Treat. Commisdoner Rasa ROey was toastmaster, and kept things moving at a lively pace. Harvty Beckwdl intro­duced each new student to the ahmmi and one r classmen. He also devoted a few moments to an outline of plans for the year's activities. Tlw campus club president gave the Freshmen a few words of fatheriy advice regarding relator rent, ete. We were fortunate in having two representa­tives of Notre Dame present. Fatter GaBagaa. who analysed Notze Dame campus UCs and offered advice on how to get the most oat of it. The prindpal speaker was IHJiip CHara, who took time fran his ever increasing duties as s^ritnal director of the armed forces to start a new snaip of Notre Dame men on the road to tha leal Notre Dame Ife. Hie dab certainly owes a Tote of thanks to Chairman Joe McKasw for the thooi^t of asking Bishop O'Hara to attend.this 
aftair and to Bishop 0*Hara himself for his inspiring talk. 
Future; Plans are practically completed for the annual hard time dance, which will be held on October 26. At that time Pete Quinn's perennial job as chairman of the football ticket committee will be brought to a grand close for this year. 
President Rockwell has named committee chair­men for all the club activities scheduled for the year. These will be published in the first issue of the "Echo." Present plans are that as much as possible of the routine work of the club will be threshed out in committee sessions, so that only final approval by the club will be necessary at the monthly meetings. This -will allow the meet­ings themselves to be devoted more to bull-sessions than to business routine. 
Bishop O'Hara has expressed his willingness to be our guest at another meeting some time in the future. This vtiU give the many alumni who missed the freshmen welcome a chance to renew their acquaintance with an old friend. Thanks, Bishop. We'll hold you to that promise some time. 
ITie grapevine news ser\'ice has had its lines of communications cut by vacations, and has little to report. 
John Blanda is running for a seat in the assembly from Passaic county, Harry Grattan reports the jewelry business will probably keep him away from most meetings. Our loss, but is it all business. Harry? Ye sec, a lieutenant, coast artillery reserve,. had the pleasure of attending the Held Mass celebrated by Bishop O'Hara at Canton. N. Y. during the recent First Army maneuvers. Saw Lieut. John Hinkel. '29, military intelligence reserve, there.... Understand there 
were a few others from N. D. around Too busy fighting the "war" to get a chance to see any of them Chairman Dan O'Neill and his constitution committee have held several sessions 
Much twitching of the grapevine indicates that they have been hard at work.... They prom­ise to submit their results at a meeting soon. 
Andy O'Keefe 
NEW ORLEANS Chaclcs de la Vcrgne, '25, 1102 Maritime 
Bldff., Precident; Austin Boyle, '31, 621 
Bonrbon St,« Secretary. October and the film life of Knutc Rockne brought the club out of a long summer lull, with a dinner and a visit to the Saengcr theater open­ing fall-winter activities. President Charks de la Venme arranged the affair, and Vice President Val Le Blanc, a teammate of Rockne's in 1912, had a prominent part in it. 
Nobody hsd much to report from the summer. Only Joe Drolla. concentrated on fishing. Emil Telfel made a trip to his native Newark. BiU Drcax scorched the local press in September wiVh letter bemoaning the undue amount of publicity given Tulane football here. 
Bill began, "The amount of eyewash and blarney which appears on the sports pages of "The Times-Picayune" during the football season is nothing short of stupendous. In comparison, Herr Goebbels' press conferences are pure reflections of the eternal truth." He then referred to a picture of a 177-pound Tulane guard with the caption, "anoth­er Metzgert" and noted that Bert Metzgcr never weired more than 150 while playing for Notre Dame. Mr. Dreux wound up, "We unfortunates in New Orleans who attended other universities go through harromag days in the fall." 
Bill was feeling all right, however, when last seen, reporting with Jnles de la Vergne. Jack HcCartliy- and Cyp and "Minnie" Sporl nothing more harrowing than working for a living. 
Ihe club resumed its monthly luncheons on the first Mondays. Austin Boyle 
NEW YORK CITY Robert A. HamUton. '28, €3 Wall St , Prt»­
ident: Faol Maholdiic, ex. *35, aY.O^ 485 
Madison Are^ Secretary. 
FUTURE: The annual Army-Notre Dame Ke­union and Rally on Friday ni^t . Nov. 1, at 8 o'clock in the Commodore Hotel, which is next to the Grand Central Terminal. The grand ball­room will be used, as well as a dozen adjacent rooms for individual class get-togethers. Dick Donoghue is the general chairman. 
Tickets, at $1.50 each, must be reserved in advance. Reservations, accompanied by remit­tances, are to be sent to Joseph G. Friel* Commo­dore Hotel, New York City. The $1.50 will pay for refreshments, entertainment and a dance. 
The club will run a special train to Baltimore on Nov. 9 for the Navy game. A payment of $10 wiU include the round trip on a de luxe Pennsylvania train, as well as a ticket to the game. Reservations are to be made with Warren Fogel, Commodore Hotel. Railroad tickets good until Sunday night, Nov. 10. 
The regular meeting on Oct. 29 will be featured by the drawing of the Army ticket prizes—20 of them this year. 
PAST: The freshmen send-off party on Sept. 5 in the Centre was a large success, according to Prexy Hamilton's note. More than 200 were present. Doag Bangert, '39 was chairman. 
Forty-five, 20 more than last year, attended the club Retreat at Bishop Malloy Retreat House, Jamaica Estates, L. L Rev. Cosmos Shaughnessy again conducted it, with Bishop O'Hara ^'sitting in" for two sessions. Bill Daunt did another fine job as chairman. 
OREGON Natt McDongall. Jr., *33, 45 S.W. Fint Ave., 
Portland, President; Edward J. Sandstrom, 
*39, 8 N.E. Portland Blvd.. Portland, Sec­
retars'. 
New officers for the Notre Dame club of Ore­gon were named at a late-spring meeting held at the campus commons of University of Portland. 
Natt McDongall, *34, one of the spring newly­weds of 1940. was named president for 1940-41. Lee Shannon, '15, last year's secretary-treasurer, was chosen vice-president, and Ed Sandstrom. '39, was picked to fill the secretary-treasurer post. 
Pictures of the 1939 Notre Dame grid season games were shown at the club session. Rev. Jolin 
B. Delanney, CS.C, of the University of Portland faculty, who had just returned from a trip east during which he stopped over at Notre Dame, gave a talk on new developments on the South Bend scene, bringing up to date some of the im­pressions harbored by old grads who haven't been back there for a decade or two. 
Harold Harstick, last year's dub president, was transferred early this summer to Ixmg Beach, Calif., where he becomes sales manager of the southern California branch of Foster and Kleiser, coast-wide advertising concern. Dom Cal­licrate. Notre Dame athlete and product of the 1900's. still continues to hold forth as one of the headmen of the local (Portland) Foster and Kleiser outpost. 
Oregon club members are preparing to greet Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C., as incoming presi­dent of the University of Ftortland. 
Art Estanovic, and Ed Sandstrom, both *39, are starting their second year on tiie Portland faculty in the business and biology departments, respectively. Martin HcLangfaUn, who has now returned to Notre Dame to complete his two-year apologetics course, spent the summer here teach­ing English in the school of nursing of University of Portland. 
Robert Lee ("Matty") Mathews. '15, is starting his fourth season as head coach at University of Portland. Also playing a part in connection with the local school is Ed O'Heara, who received bis master's degree from N. D. last June. He was elected president of Portland's alumni association last spring, and is currently managing editor of the McMinnville "Telephone Register." Ed Sand­
•tr*B will double as secretary-treasurer this year, having been named to that post by the Portland alomni as well as the local N. D. grads. 
Another newspaperman is Frank Larwood, '38, who took over the post of news editor of the Newberg "Graphic" during the summer. 
Cari Trarers, '29* of Los Angeles, has been si»ending considerable time in the Portiand ncin­ity lately, supervising the raising of the Bridge of the Gods across the (Columbia river near Bon­neville dam. Ed Sandstrom 
OKLAHOMA Joseph A. LaFortone, ex. '18. Nat'l Bank 
of TnUa BIdg.. Tnlu, President; Carl J. 
Scnger, »S7, 1204 S. Cheyenne, Tulsa, Sec-
re taty. Our president. Joseph A. LaFortane, and his wife, took a summer trip through the northern country. Leaving Tulsa on July 6, they vi^ted such places as Seattle. Victoria. Vancouver, Prin­cess Charlotte and Skagway. Alaska. 
Marion J. Blake, vice-president of the club, was elected grand knight of the Knights of Ck>lumbus. 
James M. Reldy, '32, married Margaret L. Flanagan, on Sept. 7, in Christ the King church, IVilsa. Jim and his bride honeymooned in New Orleans and at points along the Gulf of Mexico. Jim is employed by the Warren Petroleum corpora­tion. His fellow employes gave him a grand stag at the Tulsa Hotel a few days before the big event. Congratulations. Jim. I 
Bits from some of the menxhers: Frank Reidy, '37, spent his vacation at Lake Taneycomo in Missouri. BiU Conry, '37, is now associated with Stanolind Oil and Gas company. Oiaiies McNamara, '38. is associated with the Charles McNamar Boiler Works. John O'Hem, '37, is w;orking for the Larkin Torpedo company, has been transferred to Midland, Texas—for a short time only, we hope. Lloyd WorUy, *39, is in the oil business with his father and has turned out to be an oil scout of some note. Jim "Ollie" Powers, '32, roommate of Jim Reidy, '32, in Sorin Hall, visited in Tulsa this summer. Robert *'Bob" Bodie. '37, traveling for the Bodie-Hoover Oil company, has visited Tulsa several times this summer. 
William J. Sherry, class of '14, has spent con­siderable time in the Dakotas. Joe McNnlty, '37, won the Catholic Activities tennis tournament. Clay BfcBiBrr«y,'37, now a member of the Marines, spent a few days in Tulsa visiting his folks. Carl 
J. Scnger. '37. was elected treasurer of the 
Knights of Columbus Council No. 1104. Carl J, Senger 
PEORIA Ralph E. Johnston, ex. '30, 400 N. University 
St., President; Harry VL Weakley, '37, 700 
Smith St , Secretary. At a dinner meeting of the Peoria Notre Dame Club, held in May, the following members were elected to office: Ralph Johnston, pt^ident; Vin­cent Ridcey, vice-president; Harry M. Weakley, secretary and treasurer. 
The club held its annual picnic at Dr. Ward's farm. Sunday. June 16. at which there was a good attendance. Those in charge of this affair were. Gene Howi7i chairman, assisted by John Carmady and Vincent Rickey. 
At a dinner meeting held August 16 at the Endres Hotel, members of the club made plans to sjwnsor Oie Notre Dame-Illini special train from Peoria to Champaign for the Notre Dame-Hlinois game, which is to be played at ChampMgn, Oct. 
26. Don O'Meara is chairman for reservations for 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
this special and is beitiE assisted by Ralph John­ston. Both are receiving splendid cooperation from the city ofTicials and the Illini Club and the Notre Dame Club of Peoria. 'Die fare is $5 and entitles one to a round trip and a good football ticket. We hope to sell about 400 railroad and football tickets. 
At the same meeting in August, captains were appointed, and teams were formed^ for the annual "ticket activity" sponsored each year by the club, the purpose of which is to help defray expenses arising from the establishment of a scholarship to Notre Dame. Each year the club sends from Peoria a boy who is thought worthy of receiving an education at,Notre Dame. Our president has placed this year's "ticket activity" on a much larger scale than in the past* and the members are expecting a considerable increase in returns. 
Three new members, in the persons of John Brennan, Jim Varga, *40. and John Hicinbothem, *40, have made their appearance before the club. Brenrian is living at 1715 Columbia Terrace, and ia in charge of the local office of the Chicago-St. Louis Transfer Company. Jim Varga, 107 
N. Glenwood, and John Hicinbothem, 108 N. Glenwood. are employed at the Caterpillar Tractor Company. 
Among thos receiving new positions are: Panl WinMner, *37, recently appointed city salesman for the Standard Oil Company in Peoria; and Jack King, *37, who is now working here for the American Tobacco Company. 
The local organization was deeply grieved at the death of Bohert Barney's father and Vincent Rickey's father. 
On June 16, Robert Ward, of Chillicothe, and Miss Elizabeth Hanes were married at the Ix)g Chapel. Bob is now assistant state super\*isor of the commodity program in Illinois, with head­quarters in Chicago. 
July 22, saw the marriage of Joe Timmermsn, '38. and Miss Genevieve Lane, in St. Bernard's Church, Peoria. They are living at 917 Ellis street, Peoria. Incidentally, Joe is making great progress at his position in the office of the Keystone Steel and Wire Company. 
We hope to see all members of the alumn!, living in the vicinity of Peoria, on the Notre Dame-Ililni special train, Oct. 26. 
Harry M- Weakley 

PHILADELPHIA WilUun A. A. Castellini. '22, Franklin In­stitate. Parkway at 20th, President; B. Bmdley Baiky. ex. '23» 260 S. Broad St., Secretary. 
While pinch-hitting for that ball-of-fire scribe Ed Bailey, who has been laid low for the past few months (the hardships of the Ocean City sands and good food) I stumbled on a few items, to wit: 
Our prexy. Bill Castellini, started the summer off for most of us with a trip that far exceeded the ambitions of all and sundry when he took us to the moon via the Franklin Institute plan­etarium. 
Batch Bidley jumped off the deep end a few weeks past and since then has been kept busy lining up guys to attend places and then fiuUng to show up himself. Ah I L'Amour, I'amourl 
Wes Farrinston came down from Pleasantville with Foley Bros- as engineer on the job at the local Navy Yard. Any mail may be sent him to the Walnut Park Plaza, 63rd and Walnut Sta., (Creditors, take notice.) 
All of us mourn the death of John T. Neeson who passed away shortly over a week ago. John had been in ill health, after a breakdown, for over a year. Despite this handicap he seldom missed a meeting and his cheerfulness and grit was a source of inspiration to us all. I'm sure that those who had the pleasure of his friendship will join with me in saying that his loss is irreparable. 
Has anybody here seen Rtky? Best of negative wishes for him from Joe Hshoney. 
They tell me that Bin Nolan is mixing propa­ganda analysis with his chemicals. Cliff ProdeU 
Unemployment—as far as we can learn. all Notre Dame men in this area walk up to the pay window every week—the total income may not be great but they are on their way. One big reason for this has been—Dan H. Young, '22, (Remember Lieut. Dan, the S.A.T.C. days)—well, anyway— Dan is project manager of a $15,000,000. (Yes, six ciphers in that number) construction job for the Dry Docks Associates—who are famlding a dry dock (maybe its plural docks) at the Philadelphia Navy Yard. . . Qualified Notre Dame men such as Cliff Prodehl—(chain letter Cliff) Walt FhiDIp and some others (names on request) are in key posts on the project. 
Director of Public Works John H. Neewn has recently (again) been congratulated on the splen­did work he has done by making the landing lanes of The Phila Airport equal to none other in the country.... so drop in and see us some time. 
Good Pres. of our club Bill CsatelUni—^we are told he was back on the campus this summer.... not bad being public relations director of the famous Franklin Institute when they go away for a month just to see things—well that's our Bill. 
Clipper Smith of Villanova—^president of the Monogram Club, too—^he and Vince McNaBy have about as sweet a football club as there is in the East 
Joe Wackerman—has just landed a fine position with the Atlantic Refining Company (plug for a client). If I had space I'd like to tell you the fine things about Jim O'Donnell—Jim is with' the Conn. General Life Ins. Co.—he's doing a grand job—Jim was out at N.D. in '13—played on the line. 
Kel (Dr. Kasper) is one of our lea^ng nose and throat men—^the boys on the first floor of . Badin back in '22 and '23 will remember prefect 
Kel—how he used to roll 'em out. 
The club's looking forward to welcoming the lads who are coming to U. of P. Medical & I*aw or Jefferson Medical.... under the leadership of Johnnie KeUeher, '40, they should go somewhere. Did his dad and Mai Elward ever get that dis­cussion about the Purdue '39 field goal settled.... you know they took it up at the Monogram meet­ing in June. 
Ed Bailey 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (lUinoU) John H. Cahill, '33, 61S S. Galena Are^ 
Dixon, President; Jsmes' E. Bales, '37, 915 
W. Second St . Dixon, Secretsfr-

Club activities were suspended during the sum­mer. We are thus afforded the opportunity of writing a few notes concerning the activities and accomplishments of the individual members of our club. As our space is limited we will endeavor to recognize all of our members throughotit the year. This month Dixon takes the spotlight 
John CshiU, president of the Bock Biver Val­ley Club, spent a restless summer awaiting the day he became the father of a son, William Jo­seph, named after his grandfather "Bill," a No­tre Dame booster and for many years an honorary member of the alumni. 
G u B«B ^ of Indianapolis, one of Bock's fam­ous "watch diaTm" snards, came back to the home town for a few days. locddng well, proa­peztms and very happy. Gns has been very sue­eessfol in the insnranee business and Dixtm is prood of him. 
B«i> Brackea who played three yeais under Rock, aetins as captain one year, never reodved an injury daring his playing days. However, convinced that his playing days were not over, be took DP swimming this summer and suffered a very painful injury as a result. Practicing law in Dixon, Bob is considered one of the ooistand­ing trial lawyers in the state of Illinois. 
Ben L. Bcnr* was recently elected state chair­man of the Republican Party in Illinois. That's a top step on the political ladder. Ben is to be congratulated and the Rock Biver Valley Chib is happy to have him as a member. 
Dra, David Marplv; Edward Marphy and KOK ert LeSafc are profe^onal men Notre Dame may justly look upon with pride. They have rapidly gained recognition that young doctors seldom at­tain. 
WiOard Jones submitted to an operation, whidi was the only means we had of getting him (^ the golf coorae b^ore he destroyed all of the sod on the fairways. 
Do we have Notre Dame men practicing law in Dixon? Befc Bracken, Sherwood Dixon, GccaU Janc^ Geatve O'BbOey, Bob Dixon» and yours truly are all trying to hold their own with 25 other practicing attom^rs. 
Faal Fry handles all our medicine, John La­hcy, mth the utilities omipany, provides us with light and Ed Bfahan, as a state tropper, guaran­tees us protection—such as it is. 
John CakiB, hemdes b^ng a general nuisance with me. has been very successful in the electrical business. 
Our ^wtlight finally rests upon Shtiw—d Dix­on, formerly a member of Rock's squad, who left Notre Dame during the War and returned to fin­ish Ms education. Sherwood is ^airman of the Democratic County Central Oommittee, assistant chairman of the State Democratic Committee, and iias recently been accorded the military honor of being appointed lieutenant colonel. He may be Texas bound this winter. 
Next month our spotlight will shine on other cities. James E. Bales 
WASHINGTON, D. C WiDiam BL Janes. '28, Deptat Jastke^ Saam 
2(32; WaAiastaa, PicsidtBt; Aadmr Aath, 
'M, 4t5 Sixtk St. S.W^ WaaUastaa, SM^ 
retary. 

This being the last time for yours truly to send copy to the "Alumnus" I have decided to make it short and let the new incoming secretary tell yon the gossip and all the doings of us Washington­ians. As far as I.could learn three of the boys of the Class of '40 have landed jobs with the F.B.I.—Jahn LctdMr. Jolm Doermer and Bemie Swanacr. 
Oar beloved president. Bill Joncf. became a proud papa Aiigast 23—her name is Barbara. Bill decided to be different frcnn most fathers and instead of just visiting his wife and taking care of the many things that one must do—with the wife in the hcnpital—he had to be rushed to the hospital, same one as his wife—for an append­ectomy. I thinly being thrilled with the "littie one," he didn't mind a hit stying in the hospital. 
In closing I would like to say that every member of the D.C. Club and many, many others were very aorry to hear of the ackness of ftihi—>i 0*Cauw]^ and I am sure that all wish him a speedy recovery and hope he will be vdth us a^ n soon. Ambrose hns lent us support in every endeavor v^e have attempted and his presence has been missed. 
Andrew G. Auth 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
George J. ScUU. '27. Manidpal Garafre & 
Bepmir Shop, Expo. Bids., Duqaesne Way, 
Pittsbnrrb, President; Rev. Vincent P. Brcn­
nan, '32. St. Peter's Rectory. 814 Western 

St., Tarentom. Secretary. 
Tbursday, June 6—^Hie regular weekly luncheon of the club was a welcome party to the new sradnates of 2940. 
Sunday. June 9—Cbmmunion for Peace at St. Paul's Cathedral, followed by a breakfast at the Pittsburgh Athletic association at which the prin­cipal speaker was the Hon. Helidor Sztark. consul general of Poland. This affair was handled by Joe O'Ronrke and Ben Kaiser. 
Saturday. June 22—Outing and Buffet dinner held at the A. J.' Diebold residence in Fox Chapel. A splendid turnout enjoyed the customary hos­pitality of the Diebolds. Plenty of food, etc, amusement and recreation for all. The assessment netted a nice amount for the Scholarship Fund. Arrangements handled by Al Diebold. Jr., -Turk Meincrt, Jsdc Honteverde and Tom Cronin. 
July and August brought the customary let­down of formal club activities. But on lliursday, Sept. 5, in the P. A. A., a dinner was held to greet the new students leaidng for Notre Dame. GtoTKt Sdiin, president and Jack Monteverde. treasurer, made all plans and arrangements. About 38 were present and 12 new students were the guests of the club. *nie "pres** greeted the new students and welcomed them into the N. D. family. 
A business metineg of the club followed and plans were announced by Al Diebold with regard to the benefit movie to be held Oct. 10 at the Stanley Theatre in Pittsburgh. Hie feature is the Pittsburgh preview of the Rockne picture and the proceeds of the show are for the Scholarsfiip Funa. At the meeting. "Warner Brothers had supplied several still shots from scenes of the picture and all expressed tbdr approval and anticipation for the picture itself. 
Just a few personals: Dan Cupid has been fairly active in the local alumni ranks—John B. Beardon, *22, Don Martin. '33. Ed Cosgrove, *34. and Bob ETmtaak, '39, all having joined the ranks of the married during the past summer. Con­gratulations to all! Bin Andres has left Pitts­burgh and is now in Horxis. N. Y. where be has a portion with the lin n Truck and Blachine Co. Fred Bobertihaw. '40, is worldng in tbe chemical research department of the Allegbeoy­lAidlum Steel Corp. in Brackioiridge, Pa. 
Your truly is still here in Tarentum and last week. Sept. 12. gave the Commencement Address to the graduating class of nurses at the Alles^eny Valley hospital. I was talkiing to Gene Edwards, '27, recently. He is starting his ninth year as head coach at St Vincent College, Latrobe. Au Gene, incidentally, received a very laudatorr write-up recently in the Pittsburgh "Sun-Tele­graph," a full column being devoted to h& accomplishments as head coach at St. Vincent's. 
Father Vince Brennan 

GRADUATE NEWS 
Robert J, Thomas. M.S., *37, Ph.D., '40, 231 W. 14th St., Wilmington, Del., has generously volun­teered to write for each issue personal news of those men who received at Notre Dame advanced degrees in any field He will welcome contributions of material. Bob says: 
The Notre Dame men here in town are all looking forward to the coming football s^ison. Annually a group of research men from the du Pont Company attend one of the leading football games in the East. This year the boys got busy and sold them on the Kotre I>ame-Navy game at Baltimore. There will be 159 rooters in the crowd. A good many of the boys are also planning on taking in the Army game at New York. 
Recent additions to the Notre Dame group in Wilmington are Fen Froning and Will Anulotti, both of whom are now located in Jackson labor­atory. Dr. and Mrs, Froning are resi^ng at 1506 Delaware Avenue, while Dr. and Mrs. Anzilotti are next door, at 1508. We understand that Dr. . Anzilotti is co-author, with Brother Colambji Cnrran, of a paper which is being presented at the Detroit meeting of the American Chemical Souety this month. 

It gives us great pleasure to report that Norbert 
F. Tonssaint (B.S., '3S, Ph.D.. '40) and Mary I«. Malley (Cornell *3o) were married in August at Our Lady of Victory Chapel, Pennsylvania State College. The attendants were Joseph. A. Tonssaint. '32. of Evanston. HI. (2304 Sherman Avenue) and Miss Anne O'Brien of State College. Norb and Mary are now at home at 1318 13th Street. Wilmington. 

Rumor has penertated along the grapevine that 
JiH Mfg—M (B.S., *36. Phi)., '39) of Sharpies Solv«its Company, Wyandotte. Mich, was also married recently, but we have received no details. 
Art BsiUB (Ph.D., '39) is now very much up in the lur. It seems that he has become an. avia­tion enthusiast and has several solo hours credited toward his private pilot's license. John Verbsnc (PhJ)., *38) is sharing an apartment with Art and seems to be thriving on their home-cookng. John kept the waist line close to normal by play­ing a lot of Softball for a local team this past summer. 
The reputation for being the local authority on tbe war. the political ^tuation. and the i>ercent­age of butter fat in the cream served by the various restaurants in town is enjoyed by Bert Tosng (PhJ>., '36). Bert is now one of duPbnt's ^)ecialists in the anthraquinone field. Incidentally. he narrowly escaped serious injury when his car collided recently with another as he was returning from his vacation. 
What's behind the story about JaA Loritsdi (Ph.D., '39) doing so much travelling between Philadelphia and South Bend. Jack is affiliated with the Re^nous Products Company in Philly. 
Al Kolka (Ph.D.. '39) and Chariie O'Boyle (Ph.D.. '39) are with National Aniline in Buffalo. It is reported here in Wilmington that Al has fallen under the spell of Niagara Falls. Ed Bried (Ph.D., '38) is now in Wilmington with the Hercules Powder Co. 

ANOTHER YEAR. MAYBE 
Notre Dame students, as all college men are doing, view with much interest that section of the Burke-Wadsworth Selective Service Act which defers the conscription of collegians until next sum­mer. At his own request, the student who has entered a regular course for the 1940 schoolyear, may postpone enlisting for compulsory service until July 1, 1941, or until the end of the present academic year. Pre^dent Koosevelt has advised that it is the students' patriotic duty "to continue the normal course of their edu­cation, vnless and until they are called " 



ARMY-NOTRE DAME REUNION AND RALLY 
sponsored by the Notre Dante Qub of New Yorl Gty in the 
r^rimmrtrlftrA H^+A I *2"*' ^^^^ *"'* Ledngloii Avenue 
^OmmOaOr e nOie i (N»t to Grand CentnaTermiiuU) 
on 

Friday, November I, at 8 P. M. 

The Grand Ballroom and entire Grand Ballroom floor will be used. Classes will have their reunions in separate rooms 
as follows: Parlor B—Classes up to 1920 Parlor E—1933-1936 •• C—1921-1926 " F—1937-1939 " D—1927-1932 " G—1940 and undergraduates 
Tickets, $1.50 per person (to indude entertainment, refreshmenta and dancing). Tickets avanaUe only by reservation in advance. Seiid application, iritli remittance, to Joseph G. Frid, '29, Commodore Hotel, New York City. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Death-Where Is Thy Victory? 
St. Paul, Corinttuans 1 xv, 55. 
By REV. HENRY F. HAMMER 

(Sermon at the funeral Mass of ISev. Hidiael J. Shea. 'M) 
(This sermon is printed here, not only because of its own high worth and its tribute to a distinctively devoted Notre Dame man, but as a significant, if un­intended, commentary on the lives of other devoted Notre Dame men who have gone to death in the past three months. Perhaps no other such brief period in Notre Dame history has taken from her so many men who lived for her and with her. Father Hammer, administrator of St. Catherine's Church, Pelham, N. Y., close friend of Father Shea, is a brother of Justice Ernest E. L. Hammer, '04, and Thomas A. Hammer, '06, both of New York City.—Eds.) 
He wrote a Victory March—^this cher­ished priest friend of ours, out of affec­tion for whom we are gathered here be­fore God's altar to offer up the Holy Sac­rifice of the Mass and our prayers for the eternal repose of his soul. It was a long time ago as human time is reck­oned, back at the turn of the century when a great Catholic midwestem imi­versity was in the initial stages of a most remarkable period of expansion and turning its face towards new heights of educational progress and prestige. Mich­ael John Shea, a youth from Holyoke, Massachusetts, was a student in the De­partment of Arts at the University of Notre Dame. He was one of a g^oup of five hundred, but was distinguished among that group for his piety, his high intellectual gifts, his attractive personal­ity, and his ardent love of music. 
Something of the Dremmer 

There was something of the dreamer and the mystic about this round-faced, deep-eyed youth who was seen so often seeking the solitude of the sunny lake­side or the quiet of the chapel or brows­ing among the books in the college li­brary or letting his fingers idly glide over the keys of the organ in the loft above, where the students' choir sang. In a sense Mike Shea was a strange youth —but strange only because the excep­tional spiritual gifts of his make-up placed him upon an eminence a little higher than that of the young men who surrounded him. Whatever he did, he did exceptionally well. In the lecture hall, in the classroom, on the athletic field, in the forum of debate, in the music room, on the campus, he was a leader of his fal­lows. He, more than any other student of his time, caught in his soul that indefin­able, but inspirational something which has become celebrated all throughout the nation and euphoneously characterized as "The Spirit of Notre Dame." And to him it was g^iven to interpret in musical language, that will live as long as Amer­ica lives and the golden dome of the great University stands, the courage and intrepidity of the University's founders, the struggle, sacrifices and determina­tion of its past, the forward marching of its present, the glory of its yet more glorious future. He wrote the music of the famed Notre Dame Victory March. 
And now by appropriate thought of the faculty of the University, when this funeral Mass is finished, they will rev­erently carry his body back and bury it on the campus in the shadow of the dome which he loved so well as a student, and to which he has been devoted through­out all the days of his priesthood. 
Keynote of His Life 

It may seem strange to some that on this occasion, when a very distinguished priest of the Archdiocese, a man whose priesthood and priestly labor are an in­spiration for all who glory in the spir­itual preeminence of the Church of Christ, lies dead—that in bidding fare­well to him and paying a verbal tribute of respect to his memory, we should single out an incident of his far away student days at college and direct so much attention to it. But strange as it may seem, that incident of his colleg^e days is the very keynote of the entire life of one of New York's most dis­tinguished priests. The life of man from cradle to grave is a march. And as he lived his life—a life dedicated to service to his fellow-man and consecrated to the glory of his God—he wrote, a victory march. 
There is victory—is there not?—^in this humanly imtimely death of his? Humanly speaking the span of man's earthly life is three score years and ten. Death has struck him down at the comparatively early age of 55, after only two years of labor as pastor of this splendid parish, which he loved so dearly and which was just beginning to reap 
the fruits, of his industry and spiiitaal oiterprise. But I speak tmthfidly when I say that, though his early and sadden death is a shock, it can, in no sense of the word, be wgaxieA as a tragedy. Death is a tragedy only when th ^ die who have not lived welL For the priest of God, whether he views the imminence of his own death or the passing fitm this life of one who shared with him the office of the Eternal Priest—the word death has only one meaning. It means victory, and if death comes soon, it is quick earned victory. To use the words of one of our poet priests, '^t is stolen ecstacy." 
The dirge of the organ at a funeral Mass Is earth's faint echo of that hymn of triumph which the angels are chant­ing before the throne of the great hlg^ Priest. And the tolling of the church hells proclaims the triumphant oitry of a new soul in Heaven's court of victory. Was it not impressed with such thoughts that the Great Apostle VsaX cried oat; "O, death where is thy victory." Death has no victory. The triumph is not the triumph of death—it Is the triumph of the dead. It is the victory of the man who dies. For while we live here we never achieve complete victory. There are little successes along the road, achlve­ments that win the plaudits of men and the approval, at times, even of the all-perfect God. But the innermost recesses of the bosom of God is our objective. Only when we'reach there will His Arms embrace us and His Hands press upon our brows the laurel wreath mdleative^ of true victory. 
Grief anci Sadness 

We know that the passing of our friends and loved ones from this world, whether they be priests or Iky persons, occasions natural grief and sadness. There is always loneliness and desolation in our heart as we miss the familiar goodness of their presoice, the warmth and affection of their smiles; hut our. consolation is always the thong^t of their . everlasting security, the sureness of their unqualified victory. Father Shea is Heaven with God today has written a new victory march, the story of his own sacerdotal triumph. And we can weU imagine iluit, in that glorious ahode 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
where Te Deums are the angelic exclam­ations of the seraphs and where music is the language of the blessed, this choir­master priest of ours is supremely at home, his soul attuned to the crescendoes of that mighty organ which is ceaselessly pealing forth the victory march of the elect of Jesus Christ. 
Father Shea's life was a victory march. You will pardon me, I am sure, for injecting a personal note on this occasion. I knew him well over a long period of years. I first met him during his student days at Notre Dame, where he was a classmate of my brother and a frequent visitor at my father's home. His genial smile radiated friendliness. Later we were Seminarians together at Dunwoodie where I was honored with his friendship. 
I stood near him on that June day in 1912 when he was raised to the dignity of the Holy Priesthood before the high altar of St. Patrick's Cathedral, where afterwards he was to serve as an assist­ant to the revered and lamented Mon­signor Lavelle through a year of dis­tinguished and zealous parochial service. Prepared by the study of music in Rome and by a visit to the Monastery of the Monks of St. Pierre Solemes, he was in a very special manner qualified to assume the duties also of assistant organist and choir director at the Cathedral until his late Eminence, Cardinal Farley, recog­nizing his great musical talent, appoint­ed him to direct the choral work at St. Joseph's Seminary and to assume the important taks of training the Semin­arians in ecclesiastical chant. 
Composer of Music 
During 24 years of zealous professor­ial labor at the the Seminary, though he taught successively, apologetics, dogmatic theology and music, he foiind time to compose many Masses, motets and hymns, the best known of which the "Hymn to the Blessed Sacrament," is used at Benediction service in many of our parish churches and religious houses. 
Father Shea's salutary influence on the young men preparing for their Holy Priesthood is one of the brightest tra­ditions in the annals of Dunwoodie. Genial, always approachable, spiritual to an eminent degree, gifted with super­lative prudence and a keen sense of humor, and intensely devoted to the high­est ideals of priestly vocation, he was spiritual father, guide, and mentor to hundreds of seminarians and young priests. The friendships he made at the seminary were lasting as they were help­ful. Many of the younger priests of the diocese sought him out during the early and trying days of their priesthood to obtain from him never-failing encourage­ment inspiration, and advice. Only last May at a Confirmation service held in his parish church, the first confirmation held under the pastorate of Father Shea, it was widely remarked that the visiting priests on the occasion were mostly of the jimior clergy, a circumstance which he, himself, noted as with a voice that choked with emotion, and gratitude he thanked them for their devotion to him. 

Ambition to Be a Pastor 
Father Shea's long ambition to become a pastor, in order that he might more directly come in contact with God's peo­ple and share with them the goodness of his great human heart and the spirit­ual gifts of his priesthood, was after more than 20 years of devoted and ef­fective seminary work at last realized. Two short years ago, in the springtime of the year 1938, he left Dunwoodie to assume parochial charge of this beauti­ful parish of St. Augustine at Ossining. The last phase of his victory march had begun. You people of this parish whose heavy hearts beat in saddened tempo today as you kneel to say your prayers at this funeral Mass, your hearts can tell, far more eloquently than my poor words can describe, how bravely, how aifectionately, how splendidly he entered upon it. 
He was a very sick man when he came here. The beginnings of his fatal illness were upon him. Yet, how valiantly he labored for you and the interests of your souls. Work which even a well man might have hesitated to begin he fearlessly undertook. Orgfanizing, directing, daily administering the material interests of the parish, offering Holy Mass, giving the Sacraments, visiting the sick, con­soling the afflicted, looking after the wants of the poor, instructing the chil­dren—a Good Shepherd, indeed, whose only interest was the care of you, his flock. 
How proud of you he was and of your children! I can see him now, as so recently he stood before me, his face all wreathed in a lovely benevolent smile, and he told me of your wonderful devo­tion to the Sacred Heart, the vast num­ber of your first Friday Communions, your frequent visits to the Blessed Sacrament. This was his favorite devo­tion—devotion to the Blessed Sacrament. For his greatest love was Christ and, I dare say, the greatest consolation of his priestly life was the response which you, his children, gave to his teaching that Christ should be your greatest love also and that you should manifest it by your devotion to Him in the Sacrament of his love. 
So the victory march of this beloved priest of ours is ended. He has gone to God to receive the well-earned fruits of it. "Too soon for him to go," some will say, who think of his comparative youth, his remarkable talents, and their own expectations of him. But not, surely not too soon for him to go who hears God's voice calling his name, and, looking up through the clouds of heaven, sees God's angels awaiting his coming. Was it not during the octave of the feast of the death and glorious Assumption into Heaven of Christ's own mother that he died? How fortunate that he of the "Victory March"-should go then, go on to God, his hand in hers, who is the indomitable Lady of Victory. 
A short while now and the warmth of our August days will give place to the cool, fresh winds of late oeptember, and brown leaves will fall unchecked from numberless trees through the months of October and early November. Autimm wiU be our brief guest before the snows of winter fall. Thunderous crowds will gather in great stadia through the na­tion to attend the intercollegiate football contests. Bands will play and pennants wave and through the radios in many of your homes will come the triumphant strains of a long familiar tune. You will pause and listen and say, "It is the 'Victory March.' It is Father Shea's Victory March." May it remind you then to pray for the soul of him whence the inspiration of that glorious music came. May it ever remind you for your edifica­tion how well he lived his Christian life and so marched on to eternal victory. 


Deaths 
Dr. Radolph J. Hus, Houghton, Mich., a stu­deut at NotTe Bame in 1874-76. is apparently dead, according to a recent postofTice notification. 
John T. Neeson, Fliiladelphia. a Notre Same student in 1883-84, died in early September. In ill health for more than a year, Mr. Neeson con­tinaed nevertheless his regular attendance at the functions of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia. He was one of the most faithful members of that faithful group. 
Veiy Rev. James K. Burns. C.S.C, assistant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross and president of the University from 1919 to 1922, died in St. Joseph's hospital. South Bend, on Sept. 9. He was 73. 
Father Bums is survived by a brother, William 
P. Bums, of Michigan City, father of Hugh Bums, •S9. 
Father Bums was buried on Sept. 12 at Notre Dame. The opening of classes, scheduled for Sept. 12, was postponed one day out of respect to him. 
The solemn requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Churdi was chanted by "Very Rev. Albert P. Cousineau, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, superior gen­eral of the Congregation of Holy Cross, with two provincials of the order. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C., and Rev. Jules Poitras, C.S.O., of Mon­treal, Canada, serving as deacon and subdeacon. Rev. William R. Connor, C.S.C., was master of ceremonies. In the sanctuary were members of the hierarchy and clergy who had come from all parts of the United States. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Most Rev. John F. Noll, DJ>., bishop of Fort Wayne, presided at the Mass. 
The body of Father Bums, which had lain in state in the Administraiion Building parlor, was attended constantly by a guard of honor com­posed of faculty and students. Pallbearers were Revs. George J. Marr, C.S.C.. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C., Thomas P. Indng. C-S.C. Eugene P. Burke. O.S.C., L. V. Broughal, C.S.C., and Joseph 
A. Maguire, C.S.O. 
A group of the brothers of the Congregatlan of Holy Cross were seated in Sacred Heart church to pay final respect to their former superior. Members of the University Board of Lay Trustees present for the funeral were Byron V, Kanaley. of Chicago; C. Boy McCanna. Burlington, Wis.; Edward J. Doyle. Chicago, and Frank E. Hering. South Bend. Faculty members, students, many alumni and friends of Father Bums crowded the church. 
Members of the hierarchy who attended the services were Most Rev. Moses E. Kiley, D.D., archbishop of Milwaukee. Wis.; Most Rev. John 
F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne* Ind.; Most Rev, Francis W. Howard, D.D., bishop of Coving­ton, Ky., and Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., DJ)., military delegate; R t Rev. Msgr. John R. Hackett, of Kalamazoo, Mich.; Rt. Rev. Edward 
J. Mungovan, and Rt. Rev. F. J. Jansen of Hammond. Ind.; B t Kev. T. V. Shannon, of Chi­cago. 
Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C., editor of "The Ave Maria,** in his eulogy recounted the accom­plishments of Father Burns as a priest, aa presi­dent of the University, as provincial of the order, and as its assistant superior general. 
"He was a priest by calling and a priest by essence," he said. "He thought, spoke, and lived the priestly life. He was interested in the things in religion and in education, and he considered education as a means of culture. Father Bums' organization of the Catholic Educational associa­tion was not only daring but heroic. He always bore himself in an even temper whatever the problems." 
Father Carroll spoke of the sympathy and understanding of Father Burns and said: 
"He brought a 0ne nnderstxinding to his every friendship; he was a great friend when a friend was needed." 
Bishop Noll administered the iinal blessing in 
the church, assisted by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, . C.S.C., president of the University, Slid Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, C.S.C., first assistant provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The body was borne to the Community cemetery where it was laid to rest. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.9.C.. United States provincial of the order, read prayers 
at the grave. 
A native of Indiana, Father Bums was born In Michigan City» Feb. 13, 1867, of Irish stock. He entered Notre Dame as a student in 18S4 and worked his way through the four years* course there. He was graduated in 1888 with a bachelor of arts degree and immediately entered Holy Cross seminary to prepare for the priesthood. 
The University awarded Father Burns a master of arts degree in 1894. He was graduated from Catholic xmiversity in Washington, D, C, in 1907, ivith a Ph.D. degree, and in 1917 Notre Dame awarded him an LI1.D. degree. After making his novitiate he served t^vo years as prefect and four years as rector of Sorin hall. 
In 1898 he was named superior of the Com­munity House at Notre Dame, and two years later was made superior and president of Holy Cross college at Washington, D. C. He ser\'ed there until 19R when he was recalled here to become presi­dent of Notre Dame. He held that position until 1922. 
For five years following 1922 Father Bums, while teaching at Holy Cross college, was direc­tor of the Notre Dame expansion and endow­ment program. He was a powerful influence in shaping plans for the "greater Notre Dame." 
In May, 1927, Father Burns was apjrainted provincial of the Holy Cross order in the United States, which gave him jurisdiction over all mem­bers of the order in this country. In 1932 he was reapiwinted superior of the Holy Cross order 
Rev. James A. Burns, CS.C , '88 
when the international general chapter of the congregation met at Notre Dame. In 1938 he was made assistant superior general of the order. 
Father Bums had been vice-president of the Catholic Educational association since its found­ing in 1904, and was influential in moulding educational methods in Catholic colleges and schools. He was the author of several books of an educational character. His first, written in 1908, was "Principles. Origin and Establishment of the Catholic School System." In 1912 he wrote "Growth and Development of the Catholic School System." and in 1917 "Catholic Education—a Study of Conditions." 
One of the most beloved and most widely known members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Father Burns was bound by more intimate ties to several generations of students and alumni of the University. His death, although it followed a long illness, was a decided shock to thousands, and shortly after announcement of his passing messages of sorrow began pouring into the Uni­versity o^ices. 
To incoming students who saw the campus flag at half mast as they arrived, the word of Father Bums* death dimmed the pleasure of the be­ginning of another school year. 
To older graduates he is remembered as one of the University*s outstanding baseball players. In the years 1886 to 1833 he was catcher for the varsity team in the days when gloves, masks and chest protectors were not considered **manly.** 
With the passing years his interest in sports did not diminish, and for the last 20 years Father Bums attended baseball and football games on the campus whenever possible. In late years he was always assigned a seat in the ptess box of the football stadium where he would be protected from the weather and could converse with ex­perts concerning the games. 
While playing with the varsity baseball team. Father Bums frequently accepted invitations to play with the old South Bend Green Stockings. 
professional bsweball team. It has been explained in that •eonneetion that his years with Note* Dame sports were before the era of riind reffiil»* tion of eolksiate athletics. 
Father Boms was an inveterate walker, and his slim and stately figure was f»wiiiUy to stodents and faculty as he moved alons the shaded paths of the canqnis. Daring those walks it was a favor­ite diver^oa with him' to draw tmdergradoate students into eonversation. Freooently be directed them toward athletic practiee fields where he lis­tened attentively while they "explained" to him the games with whidi be was already ao familiar. 
Be7. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. president, paid eloq:aent tribute io the work of Father Bums as priest, educates and adminiatiator. Father ODon-neU*3 statement follows: 
"Death has taken from the ranks of the Con­gregation of Boly Cross another distinguished member in the person of Father James A. Boma^' priestly priest and eminent churchman. 
"In a quiet, self-effacing manner he contributed much to the development of both the congregation and Notre Dame. As president he exercised a pro­found influence on the academic life of the Uni­versity in the organizatioa of the diviaioxi of gnti' nate studies and the emphasis he placed on achol­arly ivseareh. Ilie direction of the endowment campaign and the formation of the associate Board of Lay trostees were due to the viaon that charaeterized his administration. Evoi later as provindal, he still retained an interest in all activities of the University. 
"He was a charter member of the National Catholic -Educational association, and hdped ma­terially in matdng it an influential factor in -the various, positions be held, was always ready to lend support to patriotic movements. Moreover, his friends in Sooth Bend will remember him for his participation in civic affairs and for his generous coc^Kraton in maintaining friendly relations be­tween the city and University. 
. "The campus will miss bis gracious personality, as will the host of alumni and students who had known and revered him for lus deep spirituality, his scholarly attainments and his abiding love for fellowman. 
"Kay he rest in peace after a full life of service to God and countiyl" 
TlHimas A. Bledley, A.B., '98, LL.B., '00, died on August 20 in Owensboro. Ky. A note ixom his family on August • 21 brought brief word of his death. 
An "Alumnus** returned with a "deceased" no­tation is the Alumni Ogee's only information on the death of WnHam J. HcNldMb* Chicago, a student in 1899. 
Also from the postoSice comes word of the death of Dr. L. R. Van Sent, of Feoria. 111., a student within the 1895-1901 period. 
Williaat J. O'Connor. AJB., '01. Louisville, is also dead. Details of his death are unfortunately missing in the Alumni Office. 
Arthar C Best, Milwaukee, a student in 1901-03. president of A.C. Best ft Co., investment securi­ties firm in HUwankee, died unexpectedly on July 22. Bfr. Best was a leader in Bfilwaukee financial and social circles and a prominent club­man. His wife, four daughters and two sons, as well as his mother and a brother, survive. 
The Ber. BCdmd J. Shea, '04. pastor of St Augustine's Churdi. Ossining, K. Y., and author of the mude of Kotre Dame*s famous "Victory Mmxth," died of a heart attack at the St. Augus­tine rectory on Aug. 19. He was 65 years old. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Father Shea, who was a member of the faculty of St. Joseph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, N. Y., for 23 years prior to his appointment to the pastor­ate of St. Augustine's, taught at Notre Dame for five years following his graduation. He resigned his position here in 1909 to study for the priest­hood at St. Joseph's Seminary, and was ordained June 1. 1912. 
He served as an assistant at St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City, for a year and a half after his ordination, and then took special courses in pl^n chant under the Benedictines on the Isle of Wight and at the Pontifical School of 
Rev. Michael J. Shea, '04 
Plain Chant in. Rome. Returning to New York in the summer of 1915. he was appointed to teach junior philosophy and to direct the plain chant at Dunwoodie. I>ater he was professor of dog­matic theology at the seminary, and at the time of his appointment to the pastorate of St. Augus­ine's Church on June 4, 1938, was head of the archdiocesan commission of Church Music. 
Funeral services for Father Shea were con­ducted at the Church of St. Augustine, on Aug. 21 and 22. The Divine OfHce was chanted at 8 o'clock on Wednesday evening, and a Solemn Mass of Requiem, at which His Excellency the Most Rev. Francis J, Spellman, Archbishop of New York, presided, was celebrated by the Rev. Ercole 
J. Rossi, pastor of St. Patrick's Old Cathedral, Manhattan, on Thursday morning at 11 o'clock. 
Assisting Father Rossi at the Mass were the Very Rev. James M. Drought, M. M., treasurer. Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America, Maryknoll, as deacon, and the Rev. Daniel F. O'SulUvan, assistant at the Chiirch of the In* carnation, Manhattan, as sub-deacon. Hie Rev. Henry F. Hammer, administrator of St. Cather­ine's Church, Pelham, delivered the eulogy, which is printed in this issue of the "Alumnus." Repre­senting Notre Dame at the Mass were the follow­ing priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross: Rev. George Marr, Rev. James Gallagan, Rev. Frank "Wetzel, Rev, John Gallagher, Rev. John Ijynch, and Rev. A. M. McDowell. 
Father Shea was a member of the Notre Dame Club of New York, which had a large represen­tation of its members present at the sen'ices. He is survived by a brother, John. '06, composer of the words of the "Victory March," and by a sister. Miss Mary Shea, of Holyoke, Mass. 
Special permission was received from the Rev. lliomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, Provincial of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, for burial of Father Shea at the University. 
Funeral rites were' conducted in Sacred Heart church on the irampus on Aug. 23. 
On its arrival in South Bend the casket was draped with a Notre Dame monogram blanket, signifying Father Shea's membership in the Mon­ogram Club, an honor awarded in 1935 in tribute to his authorship of the battle song of the Flgfat­ing Irish. Flags on the campus were at half staff until after the funeral ceremonies. 
The ser\ices were conducted by Most Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, O.9.C., D.D„ with Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell. C.S.C., president of the University, and Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C, of Notre Dame, assist­ing. Burial was in the community cemetery on the campus. An honorary guard of honor, accom­panying the body from the train to the chnrdi and to the cemetery, was composed of members of the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club. 
Oscar A. Fox, I1L.B., *07, for many years one of the most prominent citizens of Fort Wayne, Ind., and a brother of Robert Xu Fox, *01, of Denver, died in Fort Wayne on Sept. 13 after an illness dating back to last March, when he was stricken in Buenos Aires, Braul. 
Mr. Fox was president and manager of the Kunkle Valve Company, Fort Wayne, and he participated actively in the afifairs of many other business organizations in the <^ty. A fourth degree member of the BJiights of Columbus, he was a leader in the campaign which resulted in the city's magnificent Catholic Community Center. He was a charter member of St. John the Baptist Church, from which he was buried on Sept. 16. 
Surviving Mr. Fox in his immediate family are his wife, two daughters, and two sons. The late Mrs. Charles i/L Ntezer, wife of Charles IC. Niezer, '97, was his rister. 
William Anthony HcGnire, Beverly Hills, Calif., a student at Notre Dame in 1909-10. died on Sept. 16 of a- kidney ailment. The writer of several of the stage musicals whii^ brought fame to Ho Ziegfeld, Mr. McGuire was also noted as a scenarist. His "Ihe Great Ziegfeld" won the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences award for 1936 and his "lallian Russell" was later favorably received. 
A native of Chicago, Mr. McGuire was buried there. His wife, three sisters and a brother sur­vive him. 
William M. Donahne, M.E., '14, died in S t Vincent's .hospital, Indianapolis, in June. Mr. Donahue was connected with the Ford Roofing Products Company of Chicago and lived at 4625 Boulevard Place, Indianapolis. He was ill but a few days and was operated on shortly before his death. 
Theodore F. MarManns, I4L.D.. '14. Detroit, nationally known Catholic layman and advertising executive, died on Sept. 12. Mr. BfacManus was a pioneer in the advertising of automobiles and during the course of his career handled the ac­counts of Ford, Packard. General Motors and Willys-Overland. He was created loiight command­er of St. Gregory by Fope Pius XI in 1923 and a kn^ht of MalU in 1931. 
Two heroic men of the class of 1915. Haifc L. Duncan and Joseph S. Pliska, both of Chicago, died about a month part. 
First in death, w-as Mark, who died on July 23 in the Veterans* Hospital, Hines, IlL He was bur­ied in Franklin, Ind., his former home, on July 26, with a large delegation of Notre Dame men from Chicago and elsewhere present. John J. Mc-Shane pr-^ William J. Mooney, both of Indian­apolis, officially represented the class of '15 at the funeraL 
Mark attended Wabash College. Crawfordsville, Ind., for a year and then spent three years at Notre Dame, recdving his Fh.B. here. He was on the editorial staff of the "Scholastic" and the "Dome," vice-president of both his junior and his senior class, and president of the first "Day Student Club." 
He served in the Air Service of the U.S. Army from August, 1917 to March, 1919 and was later assodated in sales with the RCA-Victor company. Until illness prevented, he was one of the most active members of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago, serving the club as vice>president and as a member of its Board of Governors. 
Mark was baptized in the Catholic faith by Father Charles Doremus, G.S.C., last May. It was a fitting climax to the life of a man who had devoted so much of his life and thought and energy to Notre Dame. An excerpt from his let­ter last December to Father Hugh O'Donnell. president of tiie University, is typical: "When I went to. school there I used to call it 'heaven on earth.'-1 have not changed my mind." 
Joe PUska ^ed on August 25 in his home in Chicago of pneumonia. For 16 years he had been an invalid as the result of injuries suffered in 1918 when, as a first lieutenant, he, like Mark Duncan, was a member of the Army Air Service. 
Bom in Chicago on October 17, 1S90, Joe was a high school star in football before he came to Notre Dame. Here he was an outstanding half­back on the football teams of 1912, 1913 and 1914, a teammate of Enute K. Rockne, Mai El-ward, Gas Dorais and Ray SSchenlaub and other notable athletic figures of the day. One of his notable performances was in the Army-Notre Dame game of 1913. Playing throughout the game, Joe cooperated in the 35-13 air victory which was to revolutionize football and go into the books as one of the most historical of football contests. 
Despite his severe physical disability Joe was a frequent visitor on the campus and followed with keen interest the development of Notre Dame. He was one of the leading participants in the dedica­tion, on June 3, 1939. of the Memorial to his team­mate, Knute Rockne. and he returned last June, with many of his classmates, to observe the silver anniversary of the graduation of his class. 
Joe is survived by his father, a son and two asters. He was buried in Niles, III., near Chicago, on August 28 after funeral services in Chicago which were attended by large groups of Notre Dame men. 
Jaaes P. Goodridi, LL.D., *17. former governor of Indiana and founder of the Goodrich-Cavanaugh Foundation at Notre Dame, died on August 15 in Winchester, Ind., after a brief illness. He was 76 years old. 
Mr. Goodrich was governor from 1917 to 1921, within the period of the first World War. Father John W. C^vanaug^, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame until 1919, was a member of the extra­ordinary comnussion organized within the state during the War to deal with emergency measures. A fast friendship developed between the two men and, in admiration of Father Cavanaugh's prin­uples of Americanism and his gift of oratory, Mr. Goodridi established at the University in October, 1939, a Foundation. 
For the present, the Foundation, capitalized a year ago at $5,040, will provide prizes for an oratorical contest to be held each year among the students on the fundamentals of American government. Later, when the principal of the 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
fund has doubled, the nature of the incentive may be chansed, but the objects of Americanism and oratory must remain. 
Although .he retained an active interest in Re­publican politics and was a delegate to the Repub­lican convention in June. Mr. Goodrich devoted most ot his later years to philanthropy. He went to Russia in 1921 as a member of the relief com­mission headed by former President Herbert Hoover. 
Dr. WilUam A. O'Brien, Jr., A.B. *28, of Passaic, N. J., died on July 13 after a seven weeks' illness with a blood stream infection. Sur­viving him are his wife and two daughters. 
After leaving Notre Dame in '28, Bill took a two-year pre-med course at Columbia before enter­ing the University of Maryland Medical School. He received his M.D. in 1936 and followed with two years of intemeship and six months as a resident hospital physician. For the past t^vo years Bill had been the associate of Dr. Elroy W. Smith in skin and urologjcnl work. 
Rev. William B. Martin. LLJ).. '28, pastor of Holy Family Church, New Rochelle, N. Y., long a devoted and enthusiastic friend of Notre Dame and of innumerable Notre Dame men, died in Boston on July 8. Father Martin was 63 years old and had been 39 years a priest. 
Brother Terence, C.S.C., B.S., '33, M.S., '37. teacher of mathematics and science in Huly Trinity High school, Chicago, died suddenly on July 13 at Notre Dame. Bom in New York City on Jan. 3, 1907 as John Smith, Brother Terence entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1928 and was pro­fessed four years later. He taught for a year in Central Catholic High school. South Bend, before his transfer to Chicago in 1938. 
Richard F. X,eshy, B.G.S.. '38, of Minneapolis, -was killed on August 3 in an auto accident while he was en route to Yellowstone Park. Details of Dick's tragic accident are unfortunately missing in the Alumni Office. 
Tlie Alumni Office did not hear until this sum­mer of the death, on Jan. 19, 1939. of Robert D. Naglcr, a student in 1934-35 and 1937-38. Bob died in New Orleans of lobar pneumonia. 
John J. Kohn, A.B. '39, New York City, died on June 19. Only meager information, in addi­tion to the date of his death, has reached the Alumni Office concerning him. Vince DeCoursey, secretary of the class of '39, reports that John had been ill much of last winter 'and spring, that his heart had been affected in consequence and that an attack of pneumonia had been too much at the end. 
Brother Sabinu, CS.C and Brother Cacsaire, CS.C., were killed and three other C.S.C. brothers were seriously injured on August 24 when the delivery truck in which they were riding collided with another truck loaded with she€T>. "nie acci­dent occurred six miles north of Marcellus, Mich. as the brothers were delivering supplies to the Congregation's camp at Bankson Lake. Lawton, Mich. 
The brothers injured were Brother Ladislaus, Brother Eustace and Brother Valery. Brother Ladislaua was for a time in a critical condition, but is DOW apparently recovering. 
* The deceased brothers were buried in a double funeral ceremony in Sacred Heart Church on the campus on August 27. 
BDdad F. Glrten, former Hmudpa] Court judge mnd Aostrian consul seneral in Chicago, died there on July 26 after collapsing while walk­ing in the central business district. He was un­married. He had for many years been a faithful member of the Alumni Association. 
Burton Scfaeib, 57, for several years a teacher of agricultural subjects in the University, died on July 29 in South Bend. For the past IS years, Mr. Scheib had been a representative in the South Bend area of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York. 
The "Alunmus" extends sincere sympathy to John L. Heineman, '88, LL.D., '38, upon the death of his wife and to C. William, *29, and Georve A. Heineman, '30, upon the death of their mother; John W., '12. Edward W., ex. '10, and Dr. JoMph Costello, '12, upon the death of their father; Arthur R., '15, Frederidc E., '32. James E., '23. and Michael Carmody, *15. upon the death of their mother; Lonia F. Keifer, '16, upon the death of his father; John Weisend, ex. '23, upon the death of his father; John Q. Adams* '26, upon the death of his father; Robert A. Hamilton, *28. upon the death of his father; Terence J. Dillon, '32. upon the death of his father; W. Leslie, *33, and Edward D. Raddatz. ex. '35, upon the death of their father: FIdlip H. Kirley, '35, upon the death of his father; Thomas F. Gorman, *36, upon the death of his father; Charles S. Fits­simons, '36. upon the death of his mother; Frank Gunter, '40, upon the death of his mother. _ 

Engagements 
Miss Genevieve Feeney and James E. Fagan, '34, of Newark, N. J. 
Miss Marion Frances McRedmond and J. Walter Kennedy, *34, of New York City. 
Miss Germaine Thilman and Henry E. Dendler, '36, of Philadelphia. 
Miss Mary Dugan and Frederick C Cast, '37, of Grand Rapids. Mich. 
Miss Ellen Jean Groth and John D. Thomas, *38, of Chicago. 
Miss Leah Mae White and Robert J. Gallacher, '39, of Coraopolis, Pa. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Mahaffej, *17, announce the birth of a son, Frederic Thomas, on July 28, in Indianapolis. 
A son, James Edward, was horn to Mr. and Mrs. Tbomas J. Barry, '25, on August 27, in South Bend. 
Mr. and,Mrs. Don G. fill]ler, '25, announce the the birth of a daughter, on Axigust 2S, in Cleve­land. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. WQBaa 
F. Sheehan, '25, on August 7, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Probst* *26, announce the birth of a son, on June 5, in South Bend. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Tboauu 
F. Byrne, '28, of Sbalcer H»^ts , Ohio 
A son Eugene Francis, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Frauds F. Sweeney, *30, on August 14, in Upper Darby. Pa. 
Mr. and Mrs. Martin W. Downey. '31, announce the birth of a son, Martin James, on July 13, in Chicago. 
Dr. and Mrs. Thaddcas C Goraocwski, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, on Autfust 11. in South Bend. 
A am waa bom to Dr. and lbs. Mrna & Ccsi>f«i< '32. on July 28. in I^kewood. Obio, 
A daosfatv m * bom to ICr. and Mr*. KkhHl Fabiydi. '32. on July 13. in iSontb Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Vnmda K, MaOrr. '32, announe, the birth of s aim. wmiam Edrannd. on Anso t 5. in Fostoria, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lee V. HcLaaaUb. '32. anTwunee the birth of K ion. Dennii John, on Angut 17. in New York City. 
A dangbter. Karen, was bom to Mr. and Jba. Cbrica E. Spangcnkti*; '32. on Sept. 15. in St. Joseph, Mich. 
A son. Michael Ttmnas, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Pa«l F. Baeka. .'33. on August 31, in Sooth Bend. 
Mr and Mrs. Charles F. Hafna, Jr, '33. an­nounce the birth of s son. Charles Frederick, m . on August 3. in South Bend.. 
A daughter. Margaret Iberese. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ja b J. McKcill. 'S3, on Angmt 2. in Harriabmrg, Pa. 
. Mr. and Mrs. n. Edward Tiey. '33. 
the birth of a dan^ter. on August 28. in Wldtins; 
Ind. 
A son. Idiwrenee Edward, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ben Alezaader, ex. '34, on July 24, in Los Angeles. 
Mr. and Mrs. Babcrt W. Bader, '34, announce the birth of a dau^ter. Mary Elizabetb. on June 27, in Cleveland. 
A daughter, Jeanne Kariev was bom to Mr. aand Mrs. BayaMad Caaaretla. '34, on July 9, in Bocfaester. N. T. 
A dau^ter. Mary Theresa, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Ihaaaa W. Green. '34. on May 13. in Minneapolis. 
Hr . and Mrs. Edward W. Wrsaar. '34. annoonee the birth of a son. on Sept. 12. in Worcester, Mass. 
A daughter. Jeanne Frances, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. JeieMS J. Cuhiay. "35. on May 22: in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaseph V. Hadtaaald. '36, an­nounce the birth of a son. Joseph Vxneent^ Jr., on Sept. 3. in New York City. 
A son, Daniel, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Charics H. Picreai. '36. on May 24, in Moneic. Ind. 
A daughter. Jeane Mae. was horn to Mr. and Mis. Dale PUIeti^ '36, on Angnst 1. in Pinckney­viUe. m . 
A daogjiter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Lsaia mekey, '37. on August 20, in Sooth Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jahn J. JjtwUU, '37, annoonea the biitfa of a son, Jchn Sullivan, on Kardi 9, in Fort Wayne, lad. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. WOHaai 8. Schenk, Jr.. '38. in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Bsyis, '3 the birth of a son, Edward L.. m . on AngnstlS. in Httsborgb. 
Mr. and Mrs. Chaiies A. Ssrscasy. '38. an-' noonce the birth of twin dao^iters. Beverly Jean and Barbara Ann, on July 26. in Sooth Bend. / 
Twin dan^ters were bom to Mr. and Hn . Dcaais L. DInaia. '39.. on June 26, in Paisaie, 
N. J. Mr. and Mrs. Hcaiy J. "Sptk^ Itrlk^im. '25. 
announce the birth of a son, recently, in New York City. 
A daughter, Colette Marie, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Meyer, '3S, on Sept. H, in Santa Monica, Calif. 
Marriages 

The marriase of Miss Helen B. Groft and Gerald J. HoU»nd, '25, took place, June 22, in the Log Chapel, Notre Bame. 
Miss Jeannette Wi!k and Dr. John W. Viktoryn, '28. were married, Sept. 19, in Cleveland. 
Hiss Catherine Anne Delaney and "Xlncent T. Wmlsh, *28, were married, June 22, in Beloit, VTis. 
Miss Geraldine Graves and Kenneth H. Cassidy, *30, were married. July 8, in Tell City, Ind. 
The marriage of Miss Marie Skinner and Ed­ward Coomes, '31, took place, August 7, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Loretta Sweeney and Sburice D. Molrert '31, took place. August 7, in Indianapolis. 
Miss Eileen Mary Condon and Charles R. Slack. '31, were married, August 22, in Medina, N. Y. 
Miss Elizabeth A. Byan and Bart W. O'Hara, '32, were married, June 25, in Denver. Colo. John 
E. Humphreys, '32, was best man. 

Tlie marriage of Miss Mary Elizabeth Mulligan and John H. Scanlon, '32, took place, June 1, in Oak Park, HI. 
The marriage of Miss Rita Cunningham and PbUip J. Fahcrty, Jr., '33, took place, Oct. 7, l939, in Trenton, N. J. 
Miss Virfiinia M. Nurre and Blartin L. Hughes, ex. '33, were married, June 15, in St. Louis. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Bubek and Walter J. Keckidh, '33. took place, July 17, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy Helen Blum and Dr. Henr^- T. Gannon, '34, were married, July 6, in ITrbana, III. 
Miss Mary Virginia Burson and Elmer Gury» ex, '34, were married, August 3, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Geraldine J* Kincaid and Geotce W. Kohs, '34, took place, Sept. 7, in Detroit. 
Miss Marie Drogos and Julian J. Fudraza, '34, were married, August 24, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Alice P. Balcerzak and Carl E. Zimmerer, '34, took place, August 26, in South Bend. 
Miss Cecelia Mary Reilly and William M. Coen, *35, were married, June 12, in Tucson, Ariz. 
Miss Emma Therese Hertl and Arthur L. Kranztelder, *35, were married. June 22, In the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy Alberts and Thomas K, LaLonde, '35, were married, August 8, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Tlie marriage of Miss Eatherine Kelleher and Frank W. Matthys, '35, took place, June 15, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Eatherine Houck and Robert L. Horriney, ex. *35. took place. Sept 3, in Cleveland. 
Miss Marion O'Reilly and Frands J. Weldon, 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
'35 were married June 29. James H. Shells, '35, and Eugene J, O'Reilly, '35, were among the attendants. 
Miss Edna Moore and E. Spencer Walton, *35, were married, June 22, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Lorene Brown and John 
V. Coyne, '36, took place, August 10. in Van Nuys, Calif. 
The marriage of Miss Paula Dillon and Robert 
F. Ervin, '36, took place, Augtist 10, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Bemice Tharp and Charles S. Fitzsimono, '3G, were married, Dec 2, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Irene May O'Connor, and William !«. Jacobs. Jr., '36, were married, August 10, in Lakewood, Ohio. 
Miss Josephine Ann Roach and Norman L. Johnson. '36, were married, August 26. in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Irene Smith and Robe-t 
A. McAttlitfe, '36, took place. May 6, in Ashland, 
Miss Edythe Claire Williams and Edward T. McNally, '36, were married. May 30, in Chicago. 
Miss E\'adna Shumaker and Jerome C. Claeys, Jr., '37, were married, July 6, at Notre Dame. Among the attendants were Joseph Quinn, '37, and Gordon Murphy, '37. 
Miss Mary Dunsmore and Harry J. Cozad, '37, were married, August 27, in Rock Island, 111. 
The marriage of Miss Jane Leach, daughter of I^eroy J, Keach, '08, and Richard H. Delaney, *37, took place, August 21, in Indianapolis. 
Miss Virginia Rose Corcoran and Thomas M. Fendergast, '37. were married, August 24, in Chicago. 
Miss Patricia Loveland and Harry E. Ponlin, Jr., '37, were married, July 20, in South Bend. 
%Uss Lena Grillo and John L DiHatteo, '38. were married. July 29, in South Bend. 
Miss Helen 0*Cbnnor and Robert F. Doyle, ex. 
•38, were married, July 3. in North Platte, Nebr. 
The marriage of Miss Lucille Schuell and Wil­liara Redman Dnggan, '38, took place, August 9, in Edgewater, Colo. 
Miss Helen Clune and Vincent W. DeCoursey, '39. were married, June 26, in Kansas City, Eans. 
Miss Rita CahiU and Edward J. Fanning, Jr., '39, were married, August 3, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Harriet M. Roe and Francis J. Gaclione, '39, took place. Sept. 7, in Pinckneyville, 111. 
Miss Eleanor Keb and Edward K. Grimes, ^9. were married, July 17, in Dayton, Ohio. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Catherine Galvin and Jerome Kane, '38, took place, July 17, in Gatun. P^ama. Joseph Harrington, '39, of Cristo­bal, was an attendant. 
Miss Mary Jayne Kauth and Lonis S. Ottmcr, '39, were married. July 3, at Notre Dame. Roland A- Martin, *39, was best man. 
Miss Helen Mary Ryan and John C Hyncs, '39, were married, Sept. 7, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Rosemary O'Donnell and John Kelleher, *40. took place, Sept. 11, in Elyria, Ohio. 
Miss Helen Paris and Fred £. Hiholich, Jr., '40, were married, June 29, at Notre Dame. 
Hiss Phyllis B. Lukasiak and Gerald E. Mor­riney, *40, were married, August 31, in South Bend. 
Hie marriage of Miss Mary Grace Biggs and Christian F. Risser, '40, took place, August 31. in South Bend. Among the attendants were Robert Roblnett, *40, and Robert Hooffstetter, '40. 
Hiss Janet Hoglund and Robert E, Shoemaker, '40, were married, August 31, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Personals 


Before 1890 
100 A O O Ber. J. A. MacNamars. '•T, 
107U-T T Safait JMeph's SaaltazlaM. 
Msmt QMMIU, MteUcaii. 
A letter from Father Jchn A. MacNamara pleads for information concerning the graduates of the '90's. Father MacNamara says that the Irish gridiron battles with the Army and Navy will again entice him eastward this fall, but he still will have plenty of time to receive the news. 
William A. Wabh, former mayor of Yonkers, 
N. Y., recently represented the William A. Daant Corporation of Long Island City in its complaint to the Federal Bureau of Investigation that the specifications for supplying Yonkers with street lighting equipment were so worded as to restrict bidding to one firm. 
BeM* Mm Piectw* M, ^aim
1900-04 ndUbw. Bfthut. ladiuu. ••r. Thraus E. Bnke. C3.C 

1905-09 '«7. Natl* Dumx. UdiuuL 1910 ^* ^ "^ -*^^^"*'' **** '^'^ 
ATfc. Gknbad. fHUm. 
Fn l StMn. lUt nt«t Natimal Buk 
1911 BaiUliW. CUaCk Dliaaia. 
Fifty thousand Catholic workinsmen gathered at Mount Royal in the shadow of the Oratory of St. Joseph near Montreal to hear the Ijabor Day address of Rev. Patrick J. Carrall, CS.C.. editor of "The Ave Maria." The airlanes carried through­out the United States and South America Father Carroirs inspiring reminder of the mutual obliga­tions of capital and labor. 
Host Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.a, D.D., mili­tary delegate, presided over a solemn military field mass at the St. LanTence University stadium, Canton, N. Y., recently for 20,000 Catholic offi­cers and enlisted men. An explanation of the ritual of the Mass was broadcast over a public address system to the congregation and to the radio audience by Father Speer Strahan, *17, Cath­olic chaplain at Fort George G. Meade, Md. 
Tbe stupendous task of seeing that sufficient chaplains arc available to care for the spiritual needs of the Catholic young men who will be sent to camps under the present conscription bill will be the duty of Bishop O'Hara. 
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Tally, 200 South Park Toad, LaGrange, 111., were candidates for Amer­ica's happiest father and mother title recently. Their daughter, from whom they had had no direct communication for many weeks, returned to the United States from Holland, where she was a student, on the Quanza, Portugese frdghter. 
101 9 •• '• Kater. IM Fautk St. Pltla-
ITl A tugh. FaawjiTaaia. 
ITI a Mam DsM. brflaaa. 

ITI H ChdB VMa. GdUnidiu 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
101 C J<"n« E. Sanford, 372S Clinton Ave., 
I T 1 9 Bcrwyn. Illinois. 
In a recent address* Ray Kelly, national com­mander of the American Legion, urged that a call for 1,000,000 volunteers be issued for military training. He declared that he favored conscription only in time of war and that it should then be m?.de universal, taking in both men and industry. 
From Jim Sanford: 
The obituary columns of the ALUMNUS tell the story of the death of Mark Duncan and Joseph Pliska, both of whom succumbed after long ill­nesses. 
Members of the class who desire to remember these loyal Notre Dame" men with Masses, please communicate with Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.G., Pastor, St. Patrick's Parish, South Bend. 
The secretary has received letters from mem­bers of the Duncan and Pliska families, thanking the class for expressions of sympathy. 
Major Keith Jones, former teammate of Knute Rocknc, was to take part in the international broadcast in connection with the premiere of the movie, "Knute Rockne—All American." He was to speak from Hawaii. 
 Fin  TnMt BalM­

1916 itMtlir P. (kHta, Fine
tar, ~ 

101 T Uwar4 J. IMtakOT* Ut» FaSnuMoit 
The flight of time was abruptly brought to the attention of Rirney Sackley when his oldest daughter. Alma Marie, enrolled as a freshman at St. Mary's College, Holy Cross, Ind. 
ITI O Eacamata, WASSUI. 
From John Lcmmer: 
Walter L. G. Asiidown was a welcome visitor in Escanaba, Mich., this summer. Walter is a sanitary engineer in Chicago Heights, III., and is the daddy of a 16-ycar old daughter. 
Ed Lindemann, who received his degree at Notre Dame in '24 but who spent three years with us of 'IS, visited in Escanaba with his wife and three daughters. Ed is an official of the Green River Chair company of Livermore, Ky., and is proud of the beautiful bridge recently completed at Owensboro, Ky. 
Breen McDonald, was an Alumni Office visitor June 17. stopping to inform us of a change of his address. He can now be reached at the offices of Hallenscheid and McDonald, Philadelphia, mov­ing from the offices of the same firm in San Francisco. 
1919 
G«T. 

1920 AmtdM, CalfMBlft. 
M. Edward Doran, South Bend, democratic chairman of the Third District of Indiana, was named by his party delegate to the Democratic national convention in Chicago. 
Superior Judge J. Elmer Peak, '12, South Bend, was named alternate delegate. At the state Dem­ocratic convention. Walter L. Clements, '14, was elected to the state convention rules committee, Thomas Proctor, Elkhart, '35, was made assistant secretary and Peter A. Beczkiewicz, class of '19, South Bend, was elected vice-president. 
The gridiron firing line no longer beckons to Slip Madigan. Slip has severed all athletic rela­tions with St. Mary's College in California and is now a member of the San Francisco stock ex­change. On a recent pilgrimage to New York on business this summer Slip, with his charming family, stopped off at Notre Dame and South Bend for a chat. 
From Leo Ward: 
Mea culpa, mea culpa, mea maxima culpa! In the June "Alumnus" I conferred on Oscar Siden­faden the honors which Notre Dame conferred on Tom Tobin. now the Rev. Tom Tobin, chancellor of the archdiocese of Portland; Ore. In other words, I wrote that Oscar Sidenfaden was the valedictorian of the 1920 graduating class when, as a matter of fact, Tom Tobin received those honors and so honored the class. Oscar was the recipient of the Jose Caparo medal for excelling in the four-year course in electrical engineering. 
I have made my peace with Father Tom and my apology has been graciously accepted. I am sure, however, that such of the class as Tea Beacom, Johnny Powers and Panl Conathan and others noticed the error and very courteously re­frained from heaping coals upon my head. Os^r Sidenfaden noted the error and called me. I also received a letter from Cleveland noting my error. I assure you that it will not happen again. 
I received a call from Gene Heidelman who, as you recall, started out in the class of 1920 but stayed over a couple of years and graduated in *22 having changed courses. I was also fortunate in seeing Father John Cavanangh when he was here recently to preview Warner Bros. "Rockne, AH-American." We were able to assist the studio somewhat in digging up some old "Domes** and Rockne correspondence. 
In our recent local political campaign Notre Dame was well represented. In the district at­torney's race, John Dockweiler, who had four brothers atte'nd Notre Dame, was runner-np in the primaries. Bill Cook and Joe GaOafher, both former. Notre Dame students, managed the cam­paign for the party who placed third in the race and Norbert Savay, who attended Notre Dame, was also in the race for district attorney. 
Through the kindness of Bill Cook, a supper was served at one of the local establishments at which a number of the fellows who attended Notre Dame around the period from 1918 to 1922 showed up, among whom were Joe Sattner, deputy commissioner of corporations in Los Angeles: Gene Kennedy and Thad Walsh, who is no longer associated with J. F. T. 0*Connor of Roosevelt fame. Thad is now business agent for a large creamery on the Pacific Coast. Also present were Ed Athe, Jimmy McCabe, Oscar Sidenfaden, Arn­old McGrath, Larry Ott and Vincent "Slim" O'Connor. 
Incidentally. Vince O'Connor was one of the enenineers who designed and supervised the struc­tural work of the 200-inch telescope on Falomar Mountain, near San Diego, which is the largest telescope in the world. At the present time Vince is at the California Institute of Technology super­vising the construction of the world's largest camera, which is some 65 feet long and will utilize a plate 48 inches square. The camera wilt be a part of the telescope equipment. 
Slim has been working about a year on the camera and expects to he finished in another year. He described himself as one of the hired help and says that his part is only incidental; the hard work is really grinding the lens. 
I see Joseph Ingersoll Kane of Pontiac quite often. He has returned from New York and is an electrical engineer with the ERPI division of 
A. T. & T., in charge of moving picture sound trucks. 
Henry "Hank" Symonds, who attended Notre Dame at the time Allan Dwan was around, and who is now a writer in the moving picture industry, lost his daughter by dro\vning in a private reservur near their home in San Fernando Val]ey> The daughter was about nine yeazs old and was wadins in this private reservmr and suddenly stepped off beyond her dtep^ Also, Ge»t Heidcbwui lost his mother, Mrs. Rose Heidebnait, on July 21. 
1921 Otrdaad, OUIL 
1922 CcnM A*e. t* Wett Araiae. HOtta. 
Beniie McCafeiT, Sontli Bend postmaster, r^ ceived a new commission irom President FraskBm D, BaanTdt and Postmaster General James A. Farley to serve as Sooth Bend postmaster without term. The life term (soonds like a prison sentence) took eSeet as of Jane 25 and is (obieet only to civil service proviaons. 
Kotze Dame was represented at the anntial meetine of the Sodety for the Promotion of Eosi­neerins: Edncatian, held Jime 24-28 at the Uni­versity of California, by Prof. Walter SkiUi;, as­sistant dean of engineering. Walter was absent for three weeks, nans the time after the meetins to visit West CSoast schools. 
From Kid Adw: 
Last June, "Kadtc" Kiky was appointed to fill a judgeship vacancy in Chicago. We do not know the court Judge will preside over, but we are sure he will be a credit to the office. 
Eddie Andersra received highesf national hon­ors among 1939 football coaches by his victory in a- national poll of gridiron fans, which earned for him the ri^t to be head ooadi of the col. legiate All-Star team who opposed the professional Green Bay Packers in Soldiers' Field. Chicago, in late August. Back Shaw also received high hon­ors in being appointed assistant to £d£e. by selective vote. The fact that the collegiate AU-Stars lost the game is no ^sctedit to Eddie and Back. 
Dan Ta«nc. adjutant of the S.A.T.C. at NJ>. in 1918. as a monber of Dry Dock Aifsodates is directing the expenditure of some 115,000,000 in constructing a dry dock at the Philadelphia Navy yard. 
A cure at St. Anne's Shrine in Qudec whidi will rate as a miracle, if official eederiastical sanction is obtained, was witnessed by Jena s Dixon and his wife on the Feast of St. Anne. Enroute home the IHxons were welcomed at De­troit by Jack Higiins. Jack is a member of the law firm of Warier and Higgins. Buhl BIdg;. Detroit. 
Ji a Feica is with the H.OX.C. in Detroit. 
Denver's ace radio broadcaster. BSitt McEnixy. recently got off the air long enou^ to take a motor vacation tour to Ohio. He expected to see Jeny Barrett in Omaha and Jahn Hart in Cin­cinnati among others. 
a . CMtMT. t r AiSi. K«w 



1923 Pad 
WUHam Fitisenld. North Vernon, Ind.. b a candidate on the demoeratie slate for election to the state supreme court in the Nov. 5 eleetian. Bill began his' law practice in 1927. Be's held the state senatorship and was appointed Jennings-Scott circuit court judge in 'it. 
Ben Conner, former football coach at De Paul University. Chicago, is the proprietor of a com­bination filling station-roadside restaurant located at McHeniy, IIL, just two miles toward Lake. Geneva. (Summer tourists, take note.) 
Leaie Bngcaer. pieddent of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley, has opened Bruggner's Cigar Store in the JJLS. bnildling. SouUi Bend. just across from the Oliver hotd. Another Brngg^ ner venture is the Bmggner News Comer, at 
Hain and Jefferson in the Bend. 
V 09A J* P- Hayes. 393 7th Ave, Room 1515. 
I w£rw New York City. 
A face to be recognized as that of Ardiitect Cliff Koonsn appeared this summer in "PM/* the new newspaper, in New York. Cliff is shown ex­amining a blueprint of seating arrangements of Chicago Stadium for the democratic national convention. With L. W. Robert, Jr., secretary of the convention, and James A. Farley, he formed the committee in charge of altering the Stadiunu 
Pleasantly surprised by the "modem" Notre Dame were Mr. and Mrs. Frank Eolars, who stopped off in August. Frank confessed that it was his first visit back to the University since his graduation. 
lOOC J>^ P- Hndej, 308S Brookdale BoU. 
I y^O Toledo, Ohio. 
From John Hnrlcy: 
"Here's that man again!" Yes, it's fall and football talk is in the air. Before we get too far into that season let's hear what you did this summer and what games you intend to see. -Maybe one of your pals might team up with you. 
Pan! Dufandt 1911 East Second St. Tucson, Ariz., sent the only note that I received during the summer. 
He thanked the class and myself for thinking of him at our reunion with our "round robin autograph letter" •wishing him a speeding recov­ery. Just the receiving of it made him feel better and I hope he has continued to improve. 
Met Walter Miller at church last Sunday and he told me his brother Don really has completed that backfield for St. Mary's. 
Bernard Kesting, of Toledo, is busy these days taking in picnics and clambakes. Ben is running for a third term as county engineer. He has done a swell job. He is sending one of his boys to St. Edward's in Texas in order to prime him for that Notre Dame line. The real reason, un­fortunately, is that the lad has a bad sinus con­dition which it is hoped the Texas climate will help. 
Pan! Dooley and Art Sndcr, '2G, were golf part­ners a few times this summer. Paul heads the Electrolux Corporation for northwestern Ohio. Art just opened a new modem "pansey shop" on the same location they have had for over a half cen­tury and is going great guns. (You're welcome to this '26 news, Jim R,) 
Danny Hilgartner thoughtfully mailed your sec­retary clippings from the "Chicago Tribune" on the passing of Noble Kizer. Noble was everything his name connotes and, when you're back for one of the games, don't forget to light a candle for the first of the "watch charm" linemen, who would have done the same for you in his own way. 
One of the famous "Four Horsemen" now is the proud father of a "Pony." Jim Crowley, Fordham's head football coach, and Mrs. Crowley have adopted a 17-month old boy and named him Patrick Joseph. 
J. Clifford Potts, former St. Joseph county at­torney, was named president of the newly in­corporated Family Welfare Society, Inc., at the July meeting of the board of directors in South Bend. 
109X JaMcs A. Bonan, 127 DearlMm St, 
I TA O CUcaffo, nUaoia. 
Tom FarreU, accompanied by Mr. Farrell, trekked in from East Orange, N. J. to visit the campus last July 5. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
From Jim Ronan: 
Mr. Dooley: 
A few years back someone labeled a current best-seller "When Winter Comes," and then went on to philosophize that when Winter came. Spring could not be far behind. "So what?" says you, Dooley! "So this," says I—that here we are in the Fall of 1940, that before many more weeks we'll be digging among the moth balls for the ear-muffs, and then before we know it, we'll have the Spring of 1941. And just in case you've for­gotten. Dooley. the Spring of 1941 marks the fifteenth anniversary of the graduation of the famed Class of 1926. 
But I know you haven't forgotten, for it's you who have been reminding me of the fact ever since we sat in with the boys of "1925" at that de luxe, stream-lined reunion they staged last June. I don't think it's too early to call it to the attention of the •26ers right now, so they can't say we didn't warn 'em far enough ahead. Our representatives in Washington were kind enough to lower the draft age limit to 35, so most of us (excepting the child prodigies, of course) will still be in civilian clothes come June 1, 1941. 
Not much news at hand. On a quick trip to Indianapolis last month I had the good fortune to meet Mike Reddington and Joe Sexton. Hike is gaining fame as city attorney in the Indiana cap­ital city, and Joe is doing a fine job of repre­senting his constituents in the state legislature. 
"Who's going to help promote this fifteen-year reunion? We need some volunteer workers. Come on! Write or wire your reservations and tell ua how you like your steak—rare or medium. 
Atfcfetfe Oflle** 
ITA / Notrtt Dam*, U^uuu 
From Joe Boland: 
Seizing the "passing moment"—^all that's SVMI-able to the sec. in the hustle of early-season­football—let's record the presence on the campus during the summer of these gentlemen: 
Fat Canny, who spent his vacation time making the Lay Retreat and playing golf here; a practice that he recommends strongly for others of our time. Then there was John Wallace, who took time out from his job of being judge of municipal courts in Cook County, III., to make his regular appearance at the Retreat. Maurice "Pat" Cohen made his regular summer visit to South Bend, from his teaching job at Taunton, Mass., and managed to pop up before your sec. as a customer on a "Man-on-the-Street" show over the South Bend "Tribune's" radio station, WSBT, for which your sec labors in the off-season. 
Jack Howard reported by telephone on the occasion of a campus visit, but particulars are lacking about him since we counted on a face-to­face visit to supply them, and Jack had to get back to New York. Joe Maxwell dropped in for a week-end visit just before he started work with the linemen at Cincinnati University, where he's helping Joe "Chief' Myer, another ex-Notre Damer. 
Ihen, with the start of the school year, Ed Mandeville popped in, as he returned to get a cousin started in the seminary here. Again, the rush prevented details: vre can assure you that Ed is his smiling, friendly celf. L. WiUiam Fary, Boy Guidance, '27, checked in by mail from bis job with the Chamberlain Weather-strip Co., in Detroit, where he's doing promotion work. 
At the All-Star game, Joe Benda and your sec ran smack-dab into Don WiUdns, who • told tis that be and Ab Henry had just completed a highly satisfactory vacation in Michigan. The Willdns lad looked it: when seen, he was sprinting easily for a choice seat for the spectacle. 

TOM Hosan, who is with Swift and Co., was also met up with for just a moment in advance of the game, but long enough to assure us and one and all that he's doing all right in the meat business. 
And that's the dope, scanty as it is. Remember that the Army game is sold out, that tickets for the other games are going well—so get those applications in early, (adv.) And, at the games, drop in to the Athletic Office in Breen-PhilHps hall, or look us up out of town; to check in on aftairs, '27. Adios, my friends. 
John B. SnUivan reports a change of address, now residing at the Congress Square hotel in Portland. Me. John is an insurance analyst. 
Wilbert Mclnemey announced the removal of his law offices from 729 15th St., N.W., to Heurich Bldg!, 1627 K St, N.W., in Washington, 
D.C. He will continue the general practice of law there. 
1 Q9fi ^° ^ ^' B^*^'^''^^' ^"^ 1-^* N'otre Dame, 

From Lou Buckley: Upon arriving on the campus after another summer in Washington, D,C.t I was greeted, as per usual, by a request from Bill Dooley for copy for the October ALHMNUS. Bill included in his letter this time two pages of suggestions regarding class notes. He gave the class secretaries some fine advice on how to write the notes, but I am still looking for an answer to our most serious problem—how are we going to get the news from the fellows ? Something to write about is the prayer of every class secretary. It will cost you '28'ers only five minutes of your time to answer this prayer. The guest writers seem to be in the same position with respect to news as our old friend and guest writer for this month, Henry Davis, testifies in the following letter: 
"You should telegraph your punches my lad. Your letter gave me not only a start, but a chest­ful of misgirings as well. You see. Louis, I don't always see the AIiUMNUS, as it is mailed to my old address at Sistersville. 
"^VhiIe catching upon the June issue, however, I noticed that you had asked them (that's the fellows, of course) to drop me a line. Friend, you should have implored them. Other than Brother Bill who works for the State; Jack Gandonr who is 'in* with his dad at Sistersville, and Paul Shiben, a member of the legal fraternity at New Martinsville, W. Va., I haven't seen an ND man for months and months. That is a very sad state of affairs I assure you. 
"Surprisingly perhaps, I haven't a great deal to say concerning myself. 
"For the past ten years or so I have been with the Quaker State Oil Refining Corp., and for the last nine of those years I have been their division auditor here at St. Mary's. 
"I enjoy my work very much. Buck, and have been able to add a pound or so at the proper places. This, by the way, is a great source of amusement for the lady of the house. I am not as roly-poly, I don't imagine, as 'Mad Ludwig,' though perhaps I could loan an ounce or two to 'Put-Put.' 
"By the way, we built ourselves a new home last year and you may be sure the latch string Is handy for any of the boys who might brave these mountains. Wine is plentiful, and I know where I can buy a good cheese, so if you can induce a good companion or t%vo to drop in, I'll supply the makings for a Ball Session.'* 
Thanks, Henry, for the cooperation. No one 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
appreciates your position with respect to news better than I do. One comiKnsating feature of the guest writer plan is that it gives me an oppor­tunity to put another '28 man in the same spot that I find myself in on the 15th of each month. I thought possibly you would be able to give us some information, Henry, on our friend Jim Sexton, or is the old feud of Freshman Hall days still being fought in "them thar mountains?" 
I stopped off in Akron, Ohio, this summer on my way to Washington, D.C. and visited Art Gleason and his family. There are four little Gleasons—two boys and two girls. Art has a country place near Akron—^the address is 600 Hudson Road, R.FJ). 3, Kent, Ohio, He is still with Goodrich, but also practices law and, in his spare time, enjoys farming. My little girl was so impressed with farm life at the Gleasons that it looks like I will have to get back to the soil myself to keep peace in our family. Art's legal address is Box 31. Stow. Ohio. 
Art tells me he hears from John Herbert occa­sionally. John, as you know, is married and living, I believe, in Philadelphia. He is with the William Baumer Co., a church goods concern. Art also mentioned that Charles McGnckin was an old neighbor of his in Akron. Charles is married and living in Ohio where he is in the furnace business. 
Vince Walsh was married this summer. I stopped to see him at Monticello, HI. in June and found that he was in Beloit, Wis., getting his marriage license that day. A year ago I had the opportunity of meeting his charming bride, who was Catherine Belaney at that time. Hope to see both of you at a game this year, Vince. Vince's wife, by the way, is a cousin of Jim HcShane—which reminds me that I noted in reading a book recently by Msgr. Ligutti called "Rural Roads to Security" that the author ac­knowledged his indebtedness to the assistance given him by James L. McSbane, SJ., of St. Mary's College,. Kansas. I understand Jim is to be ordained next year. 
While we are on the subject of ordinations, you will be glad to hear that our classmate Rev. Mark Fitzgerald. C.S.G,* was ordained at Notre Dame in June. He said his First Mass in Olean, N. Y., on June 13. The '28 men on the campus were glad to welcome him back ^vith us as he is now a colleague of mine in the Depart­ment of Economics. You will remember he received his master's degree from the Howard University School of Business Administration some years ago. He was also with the accounting department of the A. &. P. in New York before he entered the seminary. 
Frank KeUy wrote me this summer from 23 Park St., Xice, Mass,, where he is in the furniture and undertaker business. Frank is married and has two children—^both girls. He mentioned that Jack Ronrke, '29, and his bride of last November called recently. Frank also stated that Ray Con­nors, '31, manages the G-Bar-S Dude Ranch in Great Barrington. 
I spent the summer in Washington, D.C, where I taught at the Catholic University Summer Ses­sion. This gave me the opportunity of seeing Bill Jones and his wife quite often. We had some fine sessions talking over old times at N. D. Bill is still an assistant chief in the Lands. Division in the Department of Justice. He was kept busy last year as president of the Notre Dame Club of Washington and did a fine job cooperating with Bill Dooley in alumni placement work. Herb Jones told me the other day that he heard that Bill had had an ai>endectomy recently. That no doubt accounts for Bill's failure to give me the information X have been expecting this month for the birth column. 
Being in Washington this summer also gave me the opportunity of seeing our Congressman Bob Grant and his wife. Bob has promised to be a guest writer later this year, after the camp^gn is over, if he manages to get some news from the '28ers. How about dropping him a note so he will be able to write a column which will be as long as some of his fine campaign speeches? Bob is, in my opinion, one of the most efficient Congressmen in Washington today. 
One of my students told me that Tom NOMI visited the campus in May. Tom arrived in a par-suit bomber plane. I understand he is a captids in the Marine Reserves and is located at Floyd Bennett field. Long Island. N. Y. Tom is mar­ried and has two children. 
Rer. James Gallagan, C.S.C., informed me some time ago that Connie Ochoa's parents celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary this year. Many of you will be interested in knowing that Father Gallagan is now pastor at Christ • the King Church on the Niles highway near Roseland. I am sure you will want to drop in to see him when you return to N. D. and talk over Sopho­more Hall days. By the way, old Sophomore Hall has been removed at last. Freshman Hall, as yoa know, was torn down some time ago. 
I visited Frank Donovan and his family in Chicago in August. Frank is kept busy as head of the Frank J. Donovan Co., wholesale druggists, with offices at 310 W. Polk St., Chicago. 
If I make this column much longer, I fear you might be left with the impression that I should do this well each month. Just remember that my traveling days are over for nine months at least, so news for the future columns will have to come from you. I am selecting Martin Ryan of 21 Orchard Place, Buffalo, N. Y. and Jolin Ridord of 5941 McPherson Ave., St. Louis, Mo., as guest writers for next month. The deadline is October 
15. Using the words of Henry Davis, I implore you to give them your coojKration by writing at once. 
His first visit back to the campus in 12 years was made by Jtrfuiny Howard and his wife on July 5. The many revisions and additions on the grounds greatly surprised the visitors. 
109 0 JM*pk P- MeNsBus* Attrntmur GM­
ITZ T eral Offic*, IiMH«i«»eHfc Iiidiaaa. 
From Joe McNamara: 
And Now to Continae the National Round Up: In Pennsylvania: 
After graduating in 1929 Albion H. Griffin became a member of the legal department of the Central West Casualty Company. In 1934, he left this company to take a position with the Bethle­hem Steel Company, where he now holds the po­sition of patent attorney. Al is married and has one child. He lives at 316 East Market Street, Bethlehem. Pa. Thad Heinlcin is holding the position of en^neer with the Erie County Electric Company (U.GJ. System). Before becoming asao> ciated with this company Thad held the positions of engineer with the Ohio Bell Telephone Co., Cleveland, a high school. mathematics instructor and a project engineer with the Federal Work Projects Administration, He is married and has no children. He is living at 519 W. 8th St. Erie, Penna. 
In addition to having a very fine law practice of his o%vn Gerard P. O'Connor is also professor of Business Law. Villa Maria College and at Cathedral College. Erie branch of S t Vincent College. Latrobe. Pa. He also sports an LL3 . degree which he received from Duquesne in 1931, Gerard is unmarried and is living at 929 West Ninth Street. Franris J. Buckley is office manager of the Universal Credit Company in Johnstown, Pa., is married and has one child. He is living at 825 Coleman Avenue. 
Rev. John A. Molter, CS.C is in his second year of a three-year course for a Ph.D. in Biology at Pauugrlvanim Univernty. He U alao airi>tant to the diaplain at Newman HalL After raeeMac his A.B. Degree from Notre Dame in *29. be received an MJS. Degree from Catholic Unrrer^tr in '36 and he spent the three smnaiers of *$( to *39 doing researdi work at the '^•rtwi» Biolotfcal Labs, Woods Hc ^ Mass. He was prefect in Freshman Hall at Notre Dame from '3S-*37; rector of Zahm Hall at Notre Dame '37-*39 and . instructor in Biology at Notre Dame *3&-'39. He was also moderator of Catholic Student M'^MIWI Crusade at Notre Dame in '3&-'37. 
Cyril A. Jones is with the Department of PobHc Assistance in Reading, Fa., as a supervisor. Before becoming associated with the Department of Pnblie Assistance Cy was a bbokteeper at the Berks Coonty IVust Co., and a teadier in the P^p«^^"g Junior Hl^ school. In addition to reeelvinjE his A3 , degree from Notre Dame be took m year of Social Work at the UniversitT of Fittaborgb. Or lives at 919 North Frant St . ReB£ng.~ Pa. and is as yet unmarried.... Ever since gT£dnatin|[ in 1929 TOM Qndey has held the position of athletic director and coach at the Shenandoah High school, Shenandoah. Pa. Tom is married and has one child—a fine son. He and-his family live ­at 324 West Oak St 
In Vcrment: 
John F. mUgar is secretary of the Burlington Drug Company, Burlington, V t Jc^m has been with this company ever ^nce graduating in 1929. He is also vice-president of New England Whole­sale Dmg Exdiange and secretary of the Vennont ^Aaveling Men's Anxiliaiy of the Vermcmt Phar­maceutical Association. John lives at 72 Hunger-ford Street, Burlington, V t He is married and has no children. 
In OUabema: filarits A. Dieter is a draftsman with tite War Department U. S. Engineers. Before taking this position Morrie was a surveymr for the ICaoori State Highway department interviewer for the National Reemployment Service and a salesman for the OUahcHna Tire and Supply Conqumy. He is married and has two children. He lives at 911 Webster, Woodward. Okla. 
In Oregen: Rer. Jifcn W. Scbebeiie, C.S.G,. may be foond ­at the Univeraitr of Portland, where be is bead of the ^"g''"** d^urtment as well as chairman of Lanffuage and literature. From the years 1929­1933 Father Sdicberie took special wtn-k in tb ^ ology at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C; in 1934 received his KJV. degree from Notre Dame and later studied dramaties. University of Washington and the Pasadena Playhouse and the Portland Civic Theatre.'Edward Lawrence Barrett is the manager of Barrett Brothen, farm equip­ment and machinery. Ed has been -mth this firm continuously since graduating in 1929. Jn edition * to receiving his A3 , degree Ed is niorting a JJ>. degree. He also finds time to execute bis duties as president of the Valley Farm Eiiaipment dob very successfully. Ed has also been grand knli ^ 'deputy grand fcni^t and advocate and treasnrer of the Knights of Columbns, in Albany, Ore. 0 B is married and has two children. Be lives at 710 W. 5th street Rer. WHBam J. Cen^lsn. 
C.S.CL is *<M»'^»wg at the Portland University, Portland. Oregon. After reeeivinff his A.B. degree in '29 he took two years post-graduate work at Johns-Hopkins. Rer. Tbeodere J. Mchfinr. C& C is also at the Unlveraty of Portland idiere be is dean of studies. Before becoming dean be was assistant superior at Moreau Seminary, Kotre Dame. Scr. Ihemas James Lane, C&C. is at tin University of Portland, whare he is instructor In Chemistry. Tom reerived his 1I.S. degree at Calli­oUe Uxdvernty in 1934 and took medal tndnias at Notre Dame during the sommera of 1937, 1938 and 1939. Rer. Geerge Lymam Dns . CSAU is also 
representing the University of Portland. He is instructor in philosophy and supervisor of choral music George was ordained in June, 1933 at Notre Dame and received his 1I.A. in philosophy in Notre Dame in 1934. He was instructor in re-lifi^on at Notre Dame in 1933-'34 and instructor in philosophy at the University of Portland, 1934. He is also director of the student division 'of the Oregon Federation of Music Clubs. 
In Hissoari: 
Since July 1933, the Chevrolet Motor Company has been ably represented by Ludwig C Peter­sdimidt, who is an accountant in the cost de­partment. Before taking his position with the Chevrolet people he was assistant manager of the Osage Country Club, Kirkwood, Mo.; junior accountant with M. Gay Hardin and Co. St. Louis. Mo. He is married and lives at 22 Lee Avenue. Ferguson, Mo.—and oh yes, has two very fine children. 
In Bliciiigui: 
Since graduation Edward Baum has been self-
employed and has also been employed by the 
Prudential Insurance Company as an agent. He 
is a past secretary of the Knights of Columbus in 
Battle Creek, Mich., is married and has a family 
of four children. He lives at 290 E. Van Buren St. 
Psol A. Brysselbont is a registered architect and 
has built up a splendid practice for himself in 
Bay City, Mich. He has been resident engineer, 
Bingham School Project, Alpena, Mich.; resident 
engineer, Alpena City Hospital Project, and chief 
draftsman with J. D. Goddej-ne, architect at Bay 
City. He is married and lives at 245 North Madi­
son boulevard. Bay City, Mich. 
Philip C Landsman has built up a Nourishing 
law practice for himself in Buchanan, Mich, Phil 
lives on Terre Coupe Koad. He is married and 
has no children.... Charles L. Burke is another 
one of the *29ers who has gone into the law 
practice for himself and is doing very well. He 
lives at 16260 Dexter Boulevard, Detroit, Mich. 
He is unmarried Russell F, Christe is an 
attorney with the Legal Aid Bureau. After his 
A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1929 he recdved an LL.B. from Georgetown in 1931. Kuss is mar­ried and has a son—^Fred Arlen Christe, bom August 14, 1939. He is living at 9901 Berkshire, Detroit. 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1929, C Don HcCoU has held the various positions of director of the Boys Club of St. Louis; camp director, St. Louis Catholic Boys Camp; camp director, Denver Catholic Chanties Camp; camp director, Hamtramck, Tau Beta Camp; instructor in sociology, St. Louis University, and boys case vrorlrer, St. Louis Children's Aid Society. He is .presently assistant director of the Tau Beta Com­munity House in Detroit. Don was also president of the Hamtramck Inter-Agency Council as well as secretary of the Detroit Federation of Settle­ments. He is married and lives at 16566 Evanston, Detroit, and has two children of whom he is very proud.... Patrick S. McDongal has been a re­porter on the Detroit "Free Press," as well as associate editor of the "Michi^n Police Journal" continuously since graduating in 1929. He is married' and has one daughter. He lives at 12637 
Stoepel Avenue, Detroit, 
After graduating Edward G. Barch spent a year teaching at Notre Dame. After that he was a purchasing-buyer, clerk-cost accounting and a senior interviewer at the Michigan State Employ­ment Service. He is now a field assistant with the Old Age Survivor's Insurance—Social Security Board in Flint, Mich. In addition to receiving his B.SJf.E. degree at Notre Dame he received his M.BJL degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Business. He has been so busy in the years since leaving school that he has never married; Ed lives at 1015 Famum Avenue, Flint. 
£arl E. Leadi spent approximately 10 years with the Universal Credit Cbmpany as manager of the Grand Rapids office. He resigned in Jane 15, 1939, to become the junior partner in a Ford dealership in Grand Rapids. Earl is married and has three fine boys. He lives at 622 Gladstone. C E- Smith was branch manager of the Com­mercial Credit Company in Youngstown, Ohio for a period after leaving school. He left fli*t company to become credit manager of the Asat^ ciates Investment Company, Toledo, Ohio. Hfe ia now branch manager of the Associates IHscount Corporation in Muskegon, Mich. He is married and has three children. He lives at 613 Fowler 
street. North Muskegon Casper R. GradiweU is city attorney in Niles. Mich. He is married and has three children. He lives at 22 S. Uncoln Avenue, Niles For a period of time Jee Molhall assisted in the management of the Unl­hall-Erb company, and later became general man­ager, which iwsition he still holds—and very capably we are told. Joe is also vice-president of the Rotary Club and the Board of Commerce. He is married and has one child. He is living at 1020 Adams street. Owosso, Mich.... Frank S. Scan was corporation examiner with the State Tax Commission of Ohio for a time after gradu­ating, after which he became associated with the Bureau of Internal Revnue, Treasury Department, as an internal revenue agent. Frank is married and has no children. He lives at 111 Oneida Boad, Pontiac, Mich. 
Frank Allen Smola said his "I do*8** to Mar­guerite Frances Schorsch on July 20 at St. Pascal's church, Chicago, who became Mrs. Smola on the spot Celebrant of the Mass was Kev. Alex­ander Schorsch, C3I., uncle of the bride and dean of the Graduate School of De Paul University. Best man was Robert Sdiorsdi, who received his 
A.B. in '39 and AM. in MO. 
Clinion H. Faille is now affiliated with the "Daily News," 220 E. 42nd St, in New York (Sty. His home town is now Nyacfc, N. Y. 
Everett A. Jewell postcards that he has been teaching junior high school at the Central S^ool in Bluffton, Ind. His home address is 404 W. Market St, Bluffton. 
Electrical Engineer Walt Green, a campus vis­itor Sept 3 with his wife, is doing naval work for the government in Washington. D. C. 
Paul h. Clark is a buyer for the Ebrt Drug Co., of Lexington. Ey. 
Among a group of seminarians and brothers who had completed their noviceship and made temporary vows of poverty, chastity and obedience at S t Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind., was Louis J. Tbomton, C.S.C., Birmingham. Ala. Lou is now at Holy Cross College, Washington, 
D. C. 
109 A Ridiard L. Donogfane. 310 Riverside Dr^ 
I T^ U New York City, 
From Dick Donogfane: 
Picture of a new class secretary writing his first lines to the "Alumnus": "Harrumpf, kaff, kaff, well, boys, we hope this won't be all hay!'* Yes, it's your new correspondent scratching his head, and wracking his "bean" for news. BUI Dooley says that nan\cs make news, and it must be NOTRE DAME throughout I! News seems scarce this time of year. Bill, so don't be hard on us. 
At any rate, it happened in Brownson "Rec" at the 10-Year Reunion, when Bob HeOmiff threw the torch to ye olde new correspondent, &nd told him to hold it high. I hope he meant that we should do the best we can! 
We hope the individual members of the class will see the plight of their "sec." and send him bushels of news for future issues. Use the back of your laundry ticket, or anything, if you have to but send him news about yourselves. And don't think he doesn't need it! 
Well, first of all. we congratulate HeUmnc on the grand job he did as secretary, as well as for his fine work in organizing the 10-year Reunion. It was a pip! Ihe class will miss his able com­ments in this column, but we hope he will con­tinue to send "news flashes" to us on the Middle Western crowd. Send Bob your stuff, and he will be glad to pass it on to us. and don't forget what Dooley says about news. 
The class sends its deepest sympathies to BfarshaU Kizer on the occasion of the death of his brother. Noble Kizer. We all learned of this news with sincere regret 
The Thirties congratulate Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C. as the new president of the University, together with his colleagues, and wish the new administration well. 
The New York Club welcomes the class to the Reunion and Rally on Friday evening at 8:00 p.m., November 1, at the Commodore Hotel, N, Y. City —the evening before the Army-Notre Dame game. Your correspondent may fumble some news, but he will have to "show his stuff" in putting across this function. So, if you don't like his writing, come and sec what he and the committee offer at the Reunion and Rally. He will be wearing a plug hat and whiskers that evening, in case any­one is gunning for him!! Meet the crowd there around the Thirty table, and we'll have something planned by that time, surely! 
The "sec" is depending on Toomey and Riser for class news on the attendance at the Retreat going on. as this is written, at the Bishop Molloy Retreat House in Jamaica. L.I.—so get that pen working, Timothy and James, and let's hear from you. (The "sec" was unable to attend this year, and regrets it). Bishop O'Hara is to give a few discourses. 
Your correspondent wants to hear from Hoon Hnllins, with all the news about that large fam­ily. It is high time we heard from Chick 0*Malley of Scranton, Penna. also, as well as others in their areas. We can also handle news from Tom Kassis of Cheyenne, Wyo., where Tom is raising a fine family, and handling one of the family stores. Oinck Bohrman and Jim Hnlvaney are doing fine in Auburn, N. Y., and your corresiwndent sees them regularly there—which is our home town! None of us is reporting back to the "Big House" there for parole activity, so relax boys! 
Jerry Parker is with American Airlines, and is doing a successful job of keeping their name before the public in the key cities. Phil Clark tells us that Jock Sutherland will do big things for Brooklyn this year, and we may stroll over some Sunday afternoon to enjoy things. Phil looks fine, and is fast becoming "Hie Thin Man." Frank Lcdcrmann of Ilion, N. Y. has twin boys, and an older boy, to make a group of three for the En^neering College in years to come. We want to hear from you family men so we can expound upon the situation about tn'ins, large families, etc—and lo, the bachelor. We all need the inspiration which you can furnish, so write to us about the family. 

Tom Eeegan is practicing law in Rockford. 111., Gil Kirwan is operating his own business ift' At­lanta, Ga., and Pat Goggin will sell you a stick or a carload of lumber in Areola. 111., although your correspondent would like to see a bit of steel used too—and not nails alone; Tom Frost will greet you in Cedar Rapids if you pass that way, and this column hopes Tom will find time to keep us posted on things out that way. Jim HaUoy knows a lot about telephones, in Charleston, 
W. Va., where he is employed by the local tele­phone company. We hope his family is fine, and want to hear from him too. And how about Clurlie Powers of Savannah, Ga.—"long time no see"—let's get a flash from you I Wonder what Art Kixk will tell, us about the goings-on in Rushville. Ind. "niat'II be good stuff for the next issue, Arthur! We'll look to Bill Cronin, '28, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
for the news about what is soing on in Democratic circles. 
Bin Reaame of Detroit writes that he had a great time at Notre Dame in June, and that can be said of all who attended. The class expresses its thanks and appreciations to the University for their hospitality. Those of you who did not get back for the 10-year Reunion better get back and see the changes and improvements* because it is a treat. Rev. Ridiard J. Grimm, C.S.C. said Mass for the class in Morrissey Hall* and also told us that Rev. George Brown. C.S.C. is taking graduate work at Troy» N. Y. We would like to hear from both, for future issues, as well as from Father Bonrke Mottset. Ed Slick should pound out a few lines in Marion, Ind., where he is in the glass business. Ed makes tumblers and glasses. We know that things are booming in Chicago and Los Angeles, and we want to ask those residing there to drop a line of general news at odd intervals. And so. with greetings to all, the initial column is put to bed, so Dooley will get it on time. See you all in the November "Alumnus." 
 Bertan, 838 B. Colfax ATCHM, 


1931 Jakn 
So«th Bend. IndSana. 

From John Bergan: 
We wish to name as the man of the month Clar­ence J. (Oonie) Donovan a member of the class and native of Bedford, Ind.. who was nominated unanimously for the office of Secretary of State of Indiana at the democratic state convention held in Indianapolis last July. Oonie. who dis­tinguished himself on the campus as a basketball player and captain of the 1930 varsity, is one of the leading young democrats in Indiana and an outstanding attorney in the southern part of the state. Our sincere congratulations on his nomination and an ardent hope that he will be our next secretary of state on January 1, 1941. 
Also coming to the attention of the sports world for his accomplishments during the past several months is none other than Bill Sullivan. who enjoyed his greatest baseball season in a nine-year baseball career. It was his brilliant batting which averaged .325 and his stellar backstopping that aided a great deal in keeping the Detroit Hgers in the American League pennant fi^t. The class is proud of Billy Sullivan. 
The Southern Illinois club, consisting of Tom Monahan. Paul Grant, Spike SaUiran. Jerry Ball. Frank Henneberger, Joe Bleitzler, and Mike Kin­ney, will hold an informal reception following the Illinois game at the Hotel Urbana in Urbana. 
It's a son at the Bob DcNeefes' in Natchez, Miss. The Florida delegation of Jack Hughes, Fred Rahaim, Bob Balfe, Charlie Powers, and the O'Briens* are already making plans to be at the ten-year reunion and are pointing for a big time on the campus. Loa Heitger was a campus visitor early in September in the interest of his Arm, which manufactures laboratory fixtures. 
Among the South Bend visitors during the summer were, Jerry Bmll, who made a pleasure jaunt up from his native Plymouth. Jerry is a lubrication engineer for the Ohio Oil company with headauarters at Robinson, III. Tom Cannon, who sjKnt a short vacation with his wife's par­ents. Tom is a candidate for the prosecutng at­torney of Miami county, Ind. Frank McGreal, Bill O'Malley, Frank Kersjes, and Charlie Milt­ner were down for the Laymens' Retreat on the campus. Frank McGreal, in addition to his work in the district attorney's office, finds time to care for a young lady born last June. Also seen at the Retreat was Oliver Field up from Spring­field, 111., where he has charge of the compul­sory truck insurance office for the State of Illi­nois. He now has two fine daughters and often sees Hike Kinney, who is chief clerk in the ofi^ce of the Secretary of State of Illinois. A resident of our city now is fair-haired Dick Baker, who with his wife, left I^lamazoo long enough to get in a little more time on his Ph.D. degree at th« University. 
Maurice Mnlrey, the Indianapolis air condition­er, found time enough to cool off this sommcr and was married to Miss Helen Sweeney of Sooth Bend the first week in August, while Lee Hedel journeyed down from Chicago with his fianeee. Catherine RafTerty and they were married in tlie Log Chapel on the campus on Aug. 31. Oar con­gratulations to them. 
Marty Brill stopped off in Chicago and Daven­port long enough to renew old friendships with Ben Oakes and Larry Hollins on his way tram his new post as head coach of Loyola College at Los Angeles. Marty now tops the beam well over 225 and should change the football situation at Loyola considerably. Moon MulUns enjoyed a brief respite from football this past summer when he sold a lot of bonds and insurance to the residents of Davenport. Frank Carideo was one of the assistant coaches of the college All-Stara at Chicago last August. Frank will be chief seoot for the Iowa Hawkeyes this fall and expects to spend a little time on the trail of Elmer's '40 charges. 
Dan Clark, the South Bend i%stauranteur, broke some local fishing records at the nearby lakes and Winnipeg, Canada. Dan may now be found in the back-room of his eating establishment oil­ing up his guns for the oncoming bear and deer season. Austin Boyle managed to take a ten-day leave of absence from his duties with the New Orieans office of the Associated Press to return to his native Whiting last month. Tont Cenley indicates that his John Carroll University eleven will be the strongest team of his reign at the Cleveland college. Father Philip Sckaerf, C.S.C., will be on the faculty of St. Edward's Universitr, Austin, Texas, during the coming year. 
T. E. "Ben" Oakes, now with IVanscontinental & Western Air, Inc., a frequent visitor to the campus this summer, has his fingers crossed in the hope that T. W. A.'8 application with the CSvil Aeronautics Bureau for certificates to include South Bend in the airline's transcontinental routes will be granted before the football season so that Notre Dame fans can use his airline. 
C. David Nadi is secretary of the Western University Club of New York. The organization had its birth 18 months ago and its membership includes alumni from more than 40 western col­leges and universities. Headauarters are located at 4 W. 43rd St.. New York. 
 T. IsM^ IM SMth Jifii—, 


1932 James 
Chieara. mtaeb. From Jim Iffoe: Boy, wasn't it a short summer! Seems like only 
yesterday that Bill Dooley was hollering for the June column and now here it is around asain. However, a couple of the boys, namely Ray Geifer and Art Cline, heeded my plea and sent a nice bit of dope. Thanks, boys. 
QaotinsT from Art CUne's letter: 
"As for myself, since leavins: school I have ac­quired a job, a wife, two children, and a title. The job (not to be confused with a position) is superintendent of the Billings Lanndry. The wife is a girl I once beat in a debate during my senior year in high school.- She never forgave roe for this and, since our marriage, has frequently proven that this decision was a mistake. Hie children are a boy of 3 ^ years of devilment and a girl of one year of loveliness. The title is presi­dent of the Montana L.iundry and Dry Cleaning Association. No one else would take the job, ao I got it. By the way, Jim, your plan 'To save a dime and meet the gang in '42' has so influenced me that I am giving up my afternoon beverage. If my resolution fails, I will break open the kid's bank to get there." Atta Boy, Art I 
FiMB Bay Gdftr's letter: 
Fiadc Doar. is in Seattle.'Wash,. adBur ad­
veitisins on the ndi a Jack GaNaa atairiad 
FMnk's stster-i9-Iaw, Virginia Chodlar. * St. 
Mair** Eal, last bll . Jack i s now crcffit —ftT 
for the Colnmbiis office of the Pare Oil Oaapaw. 
Jba WaKer of Caiio. IlL, who is the diief ex­eentive of the WaUer Clothine Coamanr ~ of Ouro, la now at Ft. Sheridan. HL, taUax a vacation on tiie government. 
Sal BaateBipa, who was reported in joor recent ouiiiiiunicatiim as beins connected wHh the Otr Fatcbrndng Departmoit here at Newaric, ia, for your informatiim. the head purchasing iminagw of the city of Newark, heins elevated to that lofty position only recently after servins aa ap­prenticeship as deputy pnrrhasing director. 
Dr. Jefai Papen and Dr. ViMeat Wkaka both made the grade after graduatine frcm Harvard Medical Sdiool and are now praetidng locally. 
J. DaoaU SaUvaB is still connected with Oe Casoalty Insurance Company in New ToA and is instrumental in placing a number of the Nbtm Dame boys for iobs. 
Hcrfc Wkerian is teaching school and doing quite well. JaA DiiiesII of Jersey City haa been at Pisgah Forest. N. C. for the last several yean finding ont all there is to know ahout eigaretta papers and. while none of us have beard from him recently, we know he's doing quite weU. 
Al Alviae is an engineer in the Bendix Corpora­tion here in Jersey. Al Capter has been seen around Pateraon taking care of the monicipal government jobs. Taay Ceati. also of Peterson, is now a New Jersey state trooper and we are all hoping that the next ticket we get handed t& us comes from him. Dick Cartas is now manager of two theatres here in Newark, and is doing ' very well. 
Jim Medum is teaching school in Jersey City but has become such a hermit since he is married that no one knovra just where. Harry Grattea ia selling class jewdrr and school rings aroond Jersey for a New York concern. Fraak MaMra is helping to run the government in Jersey (Sty. Dr. Ed TaAe sent a notice through that he moved to 2300 Summit Terrace in linden, N. J. 
Ed Mehran with a partner is (derating the Squirt Company, manufacturers of a base for one of the best miving drinks yoa have ever tasted. It is now a national product and containing a grape­fruit base, is really a thirst-quencher in or out of a mixed drink. I keep a ease here in the office^ just in case 1 have visitors. 
Ed Bart is quite the man about Waupaca. Wis., and, in spite of being devoted to a wife and two children, he has time to take care of a new home he just built and on last count. Z4 important positions around town. 
Jska (Mother) Ttemey is still around Pearl River. N. T. His brother just concluded his su­preme triumph at Princeton University where ha was captain of the football team last season. Iba first time that has ever happened in the memory of our native Jerseyites. Don't know how John missed sending this boy out to Notre Dame. 
Fred Baaer is helping his dad take care of the Bauer Battery t Electrical Service Company of Memplus. 
Pete TceHa must still be the leading architect of Canton. Miss, although the only time we hear from him is with a Christmas card imee a year. 
CONTEST CORNER 

As an innovation, members of the class of 1932 . are eligible to compete in our special contest. Only two things are necessary; put a check mark after one of the four names listed below, then tear oS the leg of your piano (or a reasonable fandmila thereof) and mail it to the Contest Editor on February 31 of any year. The thing pictured above is: 
A new white hope A Porpoise The Empire State Building; Pithecanthropus Erectus 
Now here's the best part of it, fellows. This (refer to your selection above) will be on the Notte Dame campus Commencement week of 1942. You can actually see him %valking' around the campus! He w-ill not be placed in a cage and his redheaded keeper will not be with him. Fur­thermore, you can feed him peanuts. So right now —start putting those dimes way so you can be on hand in 1942 to see this "Eighth "Wonder of the "World." This attraction will be' free—absolutely free! 
All kidding aside, do you recognize this member of our class?? 
Jim O'Brien is now in the comptroller's office in the state of New York. 
Cicorre Boden is a representative of a refrig­erator company in New York. Jack Hoyt, that bright redheaded fellow, \vill soon be married to a girl in Albany. Clay (Stormy) Duerr is vice-president of Liggett's Drug Company with head­quarters • in Dallas, Texas. 
• Recent babies of 1932ers: Jack Lj-nch, Neil Harley, Badd Dyniewicz, 
Paul OToole became engaged to Harriet "Wilson, the sister of Hack Wilson. Jim Dnbbs is the most successful lawyer in ISIendota, III. Humor has it that Jim is very much on the portly side. 
Bob Bnrciurt is tunneling through the state of Washington, building a new road to Seattle. Dick Roney, if you New Yorkers didn't know, has landed in your midst. He is now with the Cbnover-Most Company in New York City. 
Jim Wardell is with the American Can Company in Philadelphia. He has a 2-year old son, Billy. Reesie HcNamara is with the National Youth Administration in Binghamton, N. Y. 
That's all for this time. By the way be sure to get your letters in for the November issue. Hey! now, I'm not kidding about those letters. Really break down and write one, will you? 
Dr. John Keaney, Louisville. Ky., took that long walk up the aisle to the altar in July. Details as to the wedding are lacking. Perhaps someone, or the Keaneys thanselves, can put "Us wise. 
John E. "Lefty" Cox. is the owner-operator of "Jack-of-IMamonds," a combination gasoline, res­taurant and weigh scale station on Pennsylvania route 29. In his spare time (we don't know -where he finds it) he is sales manager of the Kovich Chevrolet garage in Lansford. Pa. 
iBdward O'Halley, secretary to Bishop John F. 
O'Harm, CS.C., while the latter was pre^dent of the University, has been named deputy attorney general of Illinois. Ed received his B.C.S. in *32 and his LL.B. in '39. He spent some time as secretary to Clarence E. "Pat" Hanion» *22, law professor. 
1933 Edmund BIbrUrty. 1127 FtniM BM<. Ann Aibor, Micfalraiu 
Dr. Joseph P. Egan, LaCrosse, "Wis., detoured here Sept. 3 while on his honeymoon. He spent two years at Notre Dame in pre-med. 
Fred lianglina, Grosse Pointe, Mich., was mar­ried on June 29 by Father Charles L. Doremns, '06. 
Through the efforts of the Placement Bureau, Bob Brncker, South Bend, recently stepped into the office managership of the Ffearl Packing Co., Inc., Madison, Ind. 
Slicfaael J. Besso is Springfield, Ill.'s, construc­tion engineer, having moved there from Carlin­viUe, .III. 
1 0^A KL Robert CaUR. AOletlc iwriitkn* 
I T^ H Notre Dame, ladiaBa. 
Press time note: Sec Cahill was too busy trying to peddle Army tickets. He promises to break forth in November with a volume of '34 stuff. 
Bill Sheridan sailed from New York on the first of August for the Canal Zone where the La Boca Commissary, located on the Pacific side of the Isthmus, now claims his services, ffis wife, the former Pat Marron, will join him in a few months. Bill IH was bom to the Sheridans in South Bend in 1938. Bill reports that lie met a close friend of Hoghie Wall, '36, on the voyage and the friend turned out to be one of the multi­tudinous tribe of. Smiths from Dayton, Ohio. Bill returned to the Notre Dame Law School in Febru­ary, '36, receiving his degree in *38. 
Edwin J. Holman, Leavenworth, Kans., was re-elected a state representative in Kansas. 
1935 Fnnklyn C Hodiniter, 340 Roaedak 
Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
From Hodi: Well, gang, here we are again I "Hiis will start our sixth year of "tattling" and we want to make it the best ever. After the five-year reunion, when stories could be swapped, wives presented and children talked about, it would seem only natural that you would all want to keep closer touch with your pals. The '35 column is the best bet! Drop us a card and w^e will pass on the dope — family additions, marriages, profes^onal and business changes. How about it? 
Our column this year comes from another point on the map. Six years and six different localities have been the focal spot for '35 info. This time it is St. Louis. The first of August we accepted a position on the faculty of the School of Sonal Service of St. Louis University. In addition to super\'ising the division of Probation and Parole and teaching all classes in this field, we shall also teach Community Organization and Law and Social Work. When you are in the city and can't find us at the apartment (address at the head of column) try us at the University at 221 North Grand Blvd. 
Only one bit of news came through during the summer, so we have only this hot tip to pass on to you. Prexie Tom Proctor is now a daddy! Felicitations from all of us on the birth of Phillip Georse Proctor, bom at 1:05 a.m. Sunday, July 28, 1940, weighing in at 7 pounds, 14 ounces. 
We anticipated a slow start for this year after the bang up spring, so we saved the cards you returned to us to use for copy. We are listing below the names of the registrants and their positions, as of last May. If there are changes. 
since then, please notify us. And for the rest of the gang—how about dropping us a card on what you are doing? Let's keep up contact with each other! 
Ren Reyrcr is a probation officer in the St. Joseph County Juvenile Oiurt in Mishawaka. Gene O'Brien is in the sales department of the O'Brien Varnish Company in South Bend. Tony Koharich. another probation officer, but in the city court of South Bend. Frank Maxwell was director of physi­cal education at Nazareth Hall Military School in Grand Rapids, Ohio, but has moved to a coaching job at Livonia High school, Livonia, 
N. Y. 
Bill Kennedy is reporting for the Nassau "Daily Review-Star" in Nassau County, Long Island. Al Vittcr is a physicist in the Louisiana department of conservation in the division of Petroleum Technology, New Orleans, La. John Flanigan is in the family corporation—J. C. Flanigan and Company. Inc., plumbing contracting in Chicago. Adrian Wackerman, carries on as an architectural draftsman with Henry M. Ludorf of New Britain, Conn. 
Bill O'Connor is an attorney with the Wisconsin department of taxation in Madison, Pat Fitz­patrick, is with the Research Foundation of Arm­our Institute of Technology as a chemical engineer in the experimental engineering division. All this in Chi. Hal Qoinlan is an underwriter in the Employer's Group of Kansas (^ty. Mo. Charlie Montgomery is a research chemist with Koppers Company, chemical division, in Pittsburgh. 

Josh D'Amora was among the unemployed at the moment, but we feel he has promoted something by this writing. Bob Maher is interning at Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh. At this time he may be finished. BGtch Saldi continues with the Houston Lighting and Power Company as a design en^n­neer. Charlie Fehr is a co-partner in the Charles Fehr and Son store in Spring Valley, 111. J. P, Bums is in Chattanooga, Tenn., and appears to have a business address in the Federal Building, but what he is actually doing he did not say. John J. Ryan is a salesman in the Chicago oSice of the Standard Register Company- of Dayton, Ohio. 
Tom Stringer is in the accounting division of the Peerless Cement (Corporation of Detroit. Fred Weidner is the assistant printing buyer of Sears Roebuck mail order advertising department in Chica^^. Jim Seymour is a chemist for the Hook­er Electrochemical (7o. in Niagara Falls. Jack Matthews, our G-Man was working out of the Huntlu^on, AV. Va. office. He may be transferred now as just before the West Virginia move he was in New Orleans. Vic Weigand is with his father in the Buick agency of Barberton, Ohio. Gcorce McGrath is a coach and teacher in the Ware High school, out Massachusetts way. 
Don Felts is assistant credit man for the Indian Refining Co. (Texaco) in Indianapolis. Ray Oakes is sales representative for Bird and Son, Inc., roofing manufacturers, in Kalamazoo, Mich. Bill Measer has moved up to head of the history department of Williamsville High school, outside of Buffalo. Al Ravarino is selling for Ravarino-Freschi, Inc. manufacturers of macaroni products ri^t here in St. Louis. (Give us a ring some time, Al—^Mrs. Scribe and I would like to get in touch with you.) Melrin See is a research chemist for Standard Oil of Indiana, working in Chicago. Jim Hamilton continues as purchasing agent for the Dumore Company of Radne, Wis. E. LeJune is president of the Engineers Construction Co. of Chicago. ITiat's hitting the top. 
Bin Bnrkhardt is another "big executive" as vice-president of the Burkhardt Brewing Co. of native Akron, Ohio. Boh Byrnes is a salesman for Quail and Company of Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Ed Sinpaon is a sales engineer for Hlinois Bell Tele­phone Co. in Chicago. Gene Witchgcr carries on 
The Notre Dame.Alumnus 
with Katon Hanufacturinsr Go. of Detroit as a research engineer. Ray Bmmbenek is advertising manaser of the Peerless Chain Co. of Winona, Minn. 
Tom LaLonde is still with the Green Shoe Manu­ufacturing Co. of Boston and is -worlung in the sales division of the midwestem territory, out of Chi. He was married this summer. Mike Sheedy is a Latin American traveler, selling sugar machin­ery for the George L. Squier Manufacturing Co. of Buffalo. Jim Hill is area supervisor of 16 counties in Missouri for the National Youth Ad­ministration. Norii Hart is in the insurance game for the Employers liability Assurance Corp. Ltd. of Portland, Ore. Bill Guimont is manager of the Iowa Farm Equipment Co, in Des Moines. Jim MacDevitt is a public accountant for J. C. Mac-Bevitt, Jr. and Company, of New York City. In other words, Jim is in business for himself. 
Ralph O'Malley is doing merchandising for the 
U. S. Bubbcr Co. in Mishawaka. Bob Rogers is in the hotel business working for the family corporation in Kockaway Beach, Long Island. John Porcoro is selling typewriters in the Mid-West, and working out of Winnebago, Minn. Claude Toorek is assistant to the president of the J. J. Tourek Manufacturing Co. of Chi. Luke Kelly is a salesman for Remington-Rand Inc. in the supplies division in Albany, N. Y. Harry Gafney is with McGrath as a teacher and coach in the Ware High school. 
Joe Washko is an advanced clerk for Common­wealth of Pennsylvania, department of public assistance, in Pittsburgh. Sig SInszka is teaching and coaching in Scwannaka BQgh school of Floral Park, Long Island. John Slattery is a security analyst for Leonard Fertig and Co. of Ft. Wayne, Ind. Bill Bernard is an assistant planning engi­neer with the State of Ohio department of high­ways. Bob Carter is director of athletics for Amarillo College in Amarillo, Texas. Leo Dillon is in the claim department of the Reliance Life Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh. 
Ed O'Hara is instructor in physical education of the Hammondsport High school, in Hammonds­port, N. Y. Roy Scholz on July 1 became assistant resident physician of John Hopkins hospital of Baltimore. George Foss is research engineer in metallurgy for the Sanitary District of Chicago. Alatt Ronzone is football and track coach for Frankfort High school in Frankfort, Ind. 
Carl Weber is doing accounting for General Mills Inc. in Chicago. Gunner McGrath is th& "big banker" for the Sedalia Bank and Trust Co. of Sedalia, Mo. (How about looking us up when you arc in St. Louis, Gunner?) George Demetrio is superintendent of service for the Palmer House in Chi. Russell 0*Shea is local rep­resentative in Cairo, 111., for the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. Frank Koppelberger is office manager for the Bay Manufacturing Division of Electric Auto-Lite Co. in Bay City, Mich. Tony Panning is in business for himself—Insurance Broker. Anthony F. Dunning and Co.. Chi. 
Tom Leonard is a salesman for duPont-GrasselU Chemicals Dept. of Chicago. Jim Pick is a research fellow in anatomy and otology in North­-western University Medical School. Tony Crowley is district manager for McNamar Boiler and Tank Manufacturing Co. in Salem, III. Tony Andreoni is practicing law in St. Mary's, Ohio. John Annas is selling for Annas Cbmpany of Detroit. Walt Ryan is assembly supervisor for the American Laundry Machinery Co. of Rochester, N. Y. Cliff Dudley is working with his dad in the Dudley Dairy of Paducah. Ky. 
Frank Vnkovidi is office manager for Gogebic Auto Co. Inc. of Ironwood, Mich. Bob Donahue is a salesman for the Wabash Screen Door Co. of Chicago. Tom Campbell is doing accounting for Seidman and Seidman—certified public account­ants, in Grand Rapids. Jim Reville is in business for himself in New York—drafting engineer. Jade Lively is assistant analyst for Equity Corporation (holding corp.) in New York (^ty. Vinee Hosaa is a salesman for Remington-Rand Inc. in New York. 
John Neeson is a law clerk with Saul, Ewinsr, Remick and Saul in Philadelphia. Walt gfc*«fc«n is a sales manager for the ^eahan Liquor Co. of Lowell. Mass. Vic Knrzweff is a lawyer in native Plaquemine. I*a. (Sorry we couldn't get over before we left the south. Vic) Boh ^lanahan is floorraan for S. S- Kresge in Rochester, N. Y, Aaron Hamm is superintendent of construction for the Federal Works Agency in Ithaca, N, Y, 
That covers about half of the cards as they run gang. We'll save the rest til next time, so if you returned your card last May and have not read your name among the above, don't fret— you will read about yourself next time. 
There is one other item that we want to take up. Remember that perpetual Mass Fund we started at the reunion? We explained all the de­tails in the June issue of our rag. At that time wc had $46. Jim Armstrong tells us that the total remains the same with the Prefect of Religion. Our goal was a Mass a week for the next five years which would mean S260. We appealed to you to send in your dollar to the Prefect of Religion. Since no one has added to the fund, suppose we set as our goal a Mass a month for the next five years. That would mean $60. Now anything over and above that will be applied toward the larger goal and therefore will not go amiss. 
How about it? Surely there are 14 among you who have the interest of the class and yourself at heart who will cooperate with us and will join the 46 souls who have already subscribed to this appeal. Send your dollar with your name and ad­dress and class to the Prefect of Religion and ask that it be applied to the Perpetual Mass Fund. He will then notify me. Let's make it doubled for the next^issue and permit us to publish your, names along with those we mentioned in, June. 
This is all for now, gang. For those of you around these parts—drop in on us ather at the apartment or the school, or give us a buzz. Send in your dope, even if it is only a card so that we can keep this column fresh and vital. Here is for a big year, for everyone. 
Jerome AL Boyle, Gary, Ind., was invested with the habit of the Congregation of Holy Gross in July at St, Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prarie, Ind. and will spend the coming year there. 
1II9 X John Horan. CI E. fStli St.. Apt. X 
I T J O New Yark City. 
From John Moran: With this first column of the current acadenuc year, we are beginning to beat the drums for the best five year reunion Notre Dame has ever had. Whose? Your secretary will give you one little guess.... and we want all you 400-odd graduates of 1936 to bellow out, nice and loud, "WHY OURS, OF COURSR" 
We talked to some of the '35 gang after they returned to town last June. After listening to their glowing accounts of their reunion, we feel that Hoch Hochreiter is in line for congratulations on a swell job. 
Meanwhile your secretary is laying plans for the gathering of the 1936 clan. Next issue we will have completed enough of the ground-work to have a lineup on the committees. Prepare now to attend! Remember, it's over the Memorial Day week-end—May 30 will be on Friday—so the date is a natural.... and naturally, you're expected to be there! 
So much for the reunion. The summer, as nsoal, provided few letters and, therefore; Uttia news. Hie maiMias came up with an exUeMriy clever announeement that the demon "Sdicdastie'* columnist and manager, par ereellence, AI T«^ riUa became a proud father of a husky joungiter, John Albert Junior, on Hay 25,' at 2:16 a.m. Congratolations Pbppa! AI can be reached at 894 N. Lafayette Park Place. Los Angeles. 
Jim Kirky. vacationing from his aceoantinz work in New York, sent along a card from Kt. Hood, Ore. Jim is now sharing an apartment with Cy Stn^r , '37. but we have misplaced the address for the moment. 
Bad Gfddman wrote from Pittsburg, Fa. where-he is now handling the advertising and jmbUdtf for the Ross Opticians, an optical chain having branches in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and several other eastern states. Bud can be reached in the Smoky C^ty at P. O. Box 1004, c-o Ross Opticians. 
Fatlwr Dan GleasoD» who was ordained at Notre Dame on June 24, celebrated his first SCaas in St. Patrick's Cathedral. New York, on June 
30. In attendance were more than 3.50D of ''New York's finest," come to honor the first member of the N. Y. Police department to be ordained. 
Following the Mass. Father Gleason was guest of honor at a luncheon attended by many notables in the city administration and members of the hierarchy. Father Dan was presented with a chalice, the gift of the police force, by Commis­sioner Lewis J, Valentine. In the base of the chalice was a facsimile of a police shield with the shield number 1925 which Dan carried during his eight years of service on the force. Via. Jee Schmidt, the N. Y. "Sun" advertising tycoon, comes word that Father Gleason will be attached to the Mission Band in Massachusetts. 
Father Gleason dropped us a line from Holy Cross College, Brookland, D. C. in June and passed along the good news that the following members of the Class were to be ordained and wer to say their first solemn masses on June 30:. Elmer Gross, Bernard McCaffeiy* Boman Lad­ewskl, John Blarek, John Burke, John Magc^ Alfred Neff, Robert HcKee, Chailes Hahottey, Henry Hfintshill* and Roland SiMonitsch. Con­gratulations and a long and fruitful ministry from the rest of the class of 1936. 
Jim ReiHy, who is out to set new sales records for Wilson Brothers sporting goods here in N. Y., married Marie Nirrengarten Sept. 7. A Notre Dame touch was lent to the afifalr by the .presence of Jim HacDcntt, '35, who served as best man, Andy Hnfnagel, and several others. Congratnla­tions and best wishes, Jim and BCarie. 
At the N. Y. Club's annual party on Sept. 5 for the undergraduate students returning to school we saw Phil Clark, Bill Walsh. Jack Began, Joe Schmidt and one or two more. Phil, who has been in hiding .for quite a while, has been worldnff 
-
 for the J. Walter Thompson Advertising Agency in New York since graduation. He promised faith­fully to get around to more club meetings, so you'll be hearing more about him in the future. Pliil can be reached at 12S0 Walton Ave., Bronx* 

N.
 Y. C. 


Jadi Began is cxurr3ntly selling insurance with the John T. Balfe, '20, Company at 60 East 42nd St. Joe Schmidt was receiving congratulations from the boys on his recent elevation to the port of faithful navigator. Fourth Degree Kni^ts of Columbus in the Bronx. Joe is now the yoongest member holding this office throu^ont the United SUtes. 
Bin Walsh, who has been active on the chzb's Retreat program, inf'-^ned us that Jafai Preatb** the Milwaukee banker, married Catherine DiAertr on August 24. white Ed McNally and Edytiie Williams also marched up the aisle this summer. Ed's wedding was announced in the last imie. 
Anyway* coneratulations to both you hoys and to the new Mrs. Prentiss and Mrs. McNally. 
Your secretary humped into Homer Strickler, the ex-Hoosier who is doing a grand ioh covering New York for the ."Sun." Homer, by the way, just celebrated his first anniversarj', so congratu­lations to you and Mrs. Strickler. 

And that winds up the column for this month. In the next six issues you are going to hear a lot about our five-year reunion so better make up your mind to attend! In the meantime, we will still be batting out this monthly, stint from the same address, unless Uncle Sam and the draft board decide othrwise. So let's have your letters, your suggestions, and your criticisms (We were only fooling on that last one). 
Lieut. William V. Ellis, flight instructor in the Army at Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas, sjwnt part of his leave back on the campus, in mid-June. 
1097 Pud ^^7* 1M36 Sdioenboer Boad, 
I7^ # Detroit, McUciui. 

A "squib" from Harrison J. Pierce, out of Garden City, h. I., N. Y., reveals: "\\Tiile work­ing in Bennington, Vt,, I talked to three or four families that seemed to know Clarence E. "Jake" Kline, C.E., '21, very well because of his baseball work up there this summer and especially because of the fine way he represented Notre Dame by receiving Communion every morning during the summer." A fine tribute to Jake and Notre Dame. 
Glenn W. Ridiardson is back at Notre Dame for more courses. 
Lnke J. Tieman's business card says that he is working in the electric accounting machine division of the International Business Machines Corp., out of the Chicago branch. 
Joe HcHahon, A.B., '37. LL.B., '3S, of Chicago, is now with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
St. John's college, Collegeville, Minn., has a busy young man on its scholastic staff in Tom Casaidy. Tom, who stopped of! at Notre Dame on the way from his Long Island home to Minnesota, is teaching English and journalism at St. John's while holding down the position of director of student publicaUons and publioty. 
Georre N. Bates, one of our "hard luck" brethren, writes that illness caught up with him last February when he was two-thirds of the way through his medical course at McGill university, Montreal. He hopes to be back at work by next spring. 
A report from William J. Kennedy indicates that, after four months of unemployment, he has again returned to the firing line in a position which is definitely in his field of work. "Wish youM give us more information. Bill. 
Nidc Salerno is now using the letterheads of the Nazareth Hall Military school. Grand Rapids, O., where he is director of physical education. On Sept. I he succeeded Frank Maxwell, '35, who received his appointment as director of physical education at Livonia High school, Livonia, N. Y. 
The following notes were penned by Bob niomas of Wilmington, Del.: 
"A frequent visitor in Wilmington is Michael C Kooney, '38. Mickey returned from South America last fall and is now engaged as an engineer at the duPont acetate rayon plant in Waynesboro, Va. Bob Franris is now a junior supervisor at the du Pont rye works here, "We hear that Tom Carney will be taking his Ph.D. at Benn State in Ml. Georsre Sdtlandedccr, '38, is with the Industrial Engineering division of dU' Pont here in Wilmington, George and Miss Marion Sheehan of Erie. Pa., were married Oct. 2. Details in regard to the wedding will be forthconung later." 
Bob Locfaner, Cle^'eland, entered the C.S.C's in July and will spend the next year at St. Joseph's Novitiate, Rolling Prairie, Ind. 
John C. Marbadi recently passed his bar exam and is working in the law offices of Dempsey, McClelland & Croake in White Plains, N. Y. Fellow graduates of Harvard Law School included Harry Baldwin, George Lane and Phil Welsh. 
109 Q Harold A. Williams, 308 East Lake 
• T^ O Ave.. Baltimore, Md. 
From Hal Williams: 

Well, sir, here we are again, the boys of the '38 class—^a little older, a little wiser, and a little less garrulous. A majority are now married or caught in the feminine web. Many are the proud fathers who spend their time boring bartenders about the excellent prospects for Notre Dame foot­ball in 1960 when their sons Sammy or Herbert will be the stars of the team. Some, who have already made fortunes, are thinking of retiring to chicken farms in Ohio. And it just seems like yesterday that we leaned on the lamp post in front of Walgreen's and watched the Mishawaka belles strut up and down Michigan Avenue in their finery and feathers. Ah well! We'll chronicle the news of our increasing respectability and then move over so the youngsters can have plenty of space to brag about their fifteen dollar a week jobs, their girl friends who are beautiful and clever enough to be in Holly\vood, and their visits to the Stork Club or the Prairie Steak House. 
Latest wedding announcement comes from John 

I. DiMatteo, Jr. On Sept. 2 he and Lena Grillo, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Grillo. were married in South Bend. Their new address is 17 West Central Avenue, Miamisburg, Ohio, John's hometown. 
Saddest news to pass along concerns Bad Sher­wood who was married in May. Bud was working for Chevrolet in Tarrytown, N. Y. in the accouilt­ing department. Along in July he was taken ill with pneumonia and a strep infection. He was in bed at home for three weeks and was then moved to the Tarrytown Hospital. The doctors advised him to go back to Flint and take a complete rest for at least six months. Chevrolet is ^ving him a leave of absence and offers of a job in Tarry-own or Flint when he gets better. In case anyone wants to write him a letter his address in Flint is: 120 East Hamilton Avenue. 
Jack Cleary stopped in to see the Sherwoods at Tarrytown on his way home from a World's Fair vacation but found they had pulled out for Flint. "While in New York Jack had a short visit with Charlie Callahan. 
Says Jack: "Things remain about the same with me, still working with Reed & Barton Silver Com­pany—if any ND men are getting married don't forget to mention Reed & Barton Silver—the Standard of the World—^received an order today from ND for over 6,000 pieces [Editor's note advertising rates upon request.] 
"Jim Molcahy is not going back to Coyle High (Taunton, Mass.) to teach, reason unknown. Pete Gay has opened a law office. Art Selna must have turned hermit—have not heard from him. The same for Tom Shields and Jack Simon." [Secre­tary's note—they don't write—at least we have never been able to get a rise out of them.] 
Charlie Callahan dropped a line of news along the latter part of July. Said he, after rambling along about the Fair and this and that, "Father Carey—{Pat's brother) expects to visit me some­time in August and I imagine I'll get a gang together. Outside from the fact that I met Cliff Tallman at the Fair (forget what he's doing). Bill Gallin on 42nd street (getting married in fall). Bill Marffnet (occasionally) at the *News* and Ed Bartnctt (even less) at the All the News That's Fit to Print shop, I have no ND news a^de from he fact that I'm wondering where in the devil I'm going to get nine bucks for two Army game seats " 
Brother Bertrand (Bill) Mahoney, O.P., wrote a letter to the column while he was spending the summer at the Dominican College Camp in Me­nominee. Mich. He says that George Kennan is a faithful correspondent and that he has a card now and again from Gas Sidler. "The rest are veiled, for the most part in obscurity, revealed only in the column," he concludes. Let the wife do the dishes tonight, fellows, and drop Bill a line—he'd like to hear from you. 
Aside to Bob Mollcn: Bill said that his faith in human nature is sadly shaken because the two of us have neglected to keep up our end of the correspondence. I dashed off a long letter to Bill recently so now it is up to you to restore faith in human nature. Incidentally, how about a letter this way? 
Paul "Andy" Anderson—6349 Walnut Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.,—wrote this letter that arrived two days after I had mailed in the copy for the June issue. "I obtained my M.A. last year and have dedded to work on my Ph.D. at N.D. in politics. This past year I taught History (the old survey course of U. S.)—that will make some of the 
boys blush During the course of last year I saw Pat McCarty who is coaching at Ursuline Academy in Youngstown, Ohio. Pat did very well and he is as big and husky as ever. Bill Costelto was down for a St- Mary's dance (can't they ever keep away from there?). He is attending Fordham law school. Bill looks much heavier but very well. 
"In my talk with Pat. he told me of Ennto Arhoit's success at a high school in Illinois. I believe Ennio has an addition to the family. I know Fax. does. 
"Don Hickey, John Ploaff and Charlie Duke run around together in the Bend. John, who is still working in the Maintenance Department at school was in cap and gown for a picture of Rockne'a graduation along with Pat O'Brien. Watch for him in the movies! Jack O'Donnell came back last February for graduate work in English. I believe he is after his M.A. 
"Many of the old gang went up on the platform yesterday for their law degrees. Included in the pack were John Donnelly, Art Selna, Bob Deren-CDslci, Cbndc Daly. Leon Lancaster, Joe Nigro, Johnny O'Connor, Johnny Wilson^ Frank Brieht, Kioa DaPm and Jack Deane. 
"Saw ole Faducah, I^nie Anderson, about a week ago. He has a charming wife and still ribs me about which Anderson was 'the lady's man.' Now we know! Lou is working on the Railroad in Kentucky. His brother is working at Bendix in the Bend Glad to read Tom. Hcaly's letter and hear of Hike Ackroyd and Jerry Battles.... Is Ed Bfattingly playing any golf? . This sum­mer I expect to work on playground in Pittsburgh, and return to N. D. in the Fall " 
Andy wants to know is Ed Mattingly playing golf! I should say so. On June 20 I saw a clipping from a Cumberland (Md.) paper which stated in war headlines that Ed had captured the men's spring golf championship at the Cumberland Country Club, six up and five to go, in a 36-hole match. 
Hickey. the Hamburger man, writes this—^"I'm writing this letter from 'Don's Fiesta' (Hick's Hamburger House). We're going on our seventh week of business and I might say doing pretty fair. Of course I was tied down Commencement wedc-end but we had a little '38 reunion down here at the fiesta—Jimmie Carson, O'Connor, WUson, Deacon Anion, Scott Reardon, Joe Hoore, Art Philson, Bill Mehrinr, and the local 'hot dogs,* Ploaff and Dnke. I got a big thrill out of it, waiting on the boys and taking all their guff. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"rm really putting in my time, Hal, averasing 15 to 18 lionrs a day. llie first week I pnt in 20 hours and lost 20 pounds, so 1 cut myself down.** 
Remind me o£ tiie days -when Hick used to spend that much time studying.... 
From Nick Lambcrto, now foot-loose and fancy free. "Am enclosing a clipping from the Chicago *HeraId-American* of June 29, re one John Bonrke, former classmate, who seems to have found his way past the plush rope and now sits in the middle aisle of the Cathedral, away from us plebians and deadheads who occupy the aisle seats. 
**Also wanted you to know that I quit my job (July 15) and can now devote my services ex­clusively to any paper within bidding range— coffee, doughnuts, cigs, pencil stubs, pepper and battered hat. You nught think I'm nuts tossing away a swell job for newspaper work but that's the field I'm interested in... . If you hear of any openings let me know...." 
Any reader whose father owns a string of paper and needs a good star reporter or managing ­editor contact Lamberto at 1.532 Highland Ave., Chicago. 
The clipping from the Chicago paper: "Ed Prendergast, one of the town's most confirmed bachelors, had a strenuous middle-aisle rehearsal at Holy Name Cathedral yesterday afternoon, which, he maintains, is as close, as he will ever get to the altar. The rehearsal was for this morn­ing's ceremony at which he gave his niece, Wini­fred Prendergast, in marriage to Jobji Taylor Boorke, of TTtica, N. Y. Richard Balpin, a Notre Dame classmate of the bridegroom, was best man... . After a wedding breakfast at the Drake, the newlyweds left for a cruise to Georgian Bay and other lake ports, after which they will be at home in Evanston." 
On August 22 I had a card from Riggie Di-Brienza which was mailed from Southampton, 
N. Y. Message, "I'm out here vacationing for two weeks in anticipation of starting my third year at Long Island Cbllege of Medicine. Will drope you a longer line soon. Give my regards to any of the boys you may see." Thanks, Biggie, and don't forget the promise. 
Baltimore news: The other day 1 bumped into Chndc Broutts on a downtown street. Chuck, -who is still working as an accountant, informed me that he is now a proud papa. It was a boy and was bom on July 8. Heard that Jim HcGee left the Glenn Ii. Martin Airplane Company here and returned to Buffalo, N. Y. Is rumored to be working in some airplane factory there. Tom Elder's sister Alice is studying nursing at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Alice said that Tom had most of his teeth pulled recently. I am still working on the Baltimore "Sun." Saw somebody recently who bragged about knowing "Senator" George Howard. 
Ed Battnctt, who is now on the staff of the New York "Times" in their radio department, stopped in Baltimore for a day while on his vaca­tion. On his way down here Ed visited Chock Beasley who is working as a bookkeeper in a hotel in Beach Haven. N. J. (Bub Crowley's home town) for bis accounting firm. Sounds like a swell vacation with pay. 
After leaving Baltimore Ed stopped in Baltimore and called Johnny Braddock but no one answered the phone. Ed also planned to visit Louisville to see Bin Woemcr who has I>een transferred back home from the West Coast. 
While thumbing throu^ the July 31 issue of "Pit"—the new New York paper—I came across a page layout of pictures showing Sherman Bil­lingsley, director of Cafe Society's Stork Club, taking 32 "aodety girls and their dates" to Cbney Island to show them how the other Italf has fun. In one pietore was no other than Gcoise BOM, Jr., ol the '39 dasa, in a typical "Tarzan" pose—eat­ing a hot dog and mugging the camera. Guess Yale and Princeton have nothing on NJ>. now... . 
A few weeks before in the same newspaper I 
saw a picture of Bill Fallon in a National Guard 
uniform. 
And now congratulations to BUI Haheacy on hia new iob as track coach at N. D. May he be a worthy successor to old "Nick" and just as good a track coach as he was a scholar and friend. 
That's all for this month. Next month—up to the minute news on what the *38 boys are doing m the military training camps I 
F.S. Have already made arrangements with the War Department to get away from camp two days to attend the Army game. See you all after the game in the Penn bar. 
. J. Knssell Longon, and his wife, recently mar­ried in Cincinnati, traveled some 1,400 miles on a honeymoon trip through Texas. The couple will^ make their residence in the home city of the National league champions. 
Clark L. Reynolds was an Alumni OCtice visitor June 17. He finished Harvard Business Sdiool and is working for the Union Bag & Paper Corp., Woolworth BIdff., New York City. He brought the information that Francis H. Hay and Lea F. Welch, Jr., also finished Harvard Business School. Leo is working for his father in Indianapolis and Frank is working for the Owens-Illinois Glass Co., in Streator, III. 
Frank Crosiar, who spent two years with the class, resides now with his wife and son at 517 
N. Walnut street. South Bend, and is working in the Bendix plant. 
Ex-musician and Glee Club star Frank X. Scbaefer, class of '38, of South Bend is working for the American Foundry Eauipment Co.. in Mishawaka. 
109 0 Vincent DeCoutsey, 205 Bnuh Creek, 
174 7 Kansas City. Ho. 
From Vince DeConrsey: If England had been prepared for Herry Adolf as well as this column was prepared for the first Little Yellow Card, Doctor Gnrian's classes would no longer have to worry about the composition of the House of Commons. Digging frantically into the file—^we've finally got hold of one—the amazing summer spoils of three letters and two cards came to light as all the possible source for pages and pages of material. 
But of course, being a believer in the inspira­tion that comes only at the very last minute, we waited until came that sad dawn and were re­warded for our procastination with a double sur­prise, and quite a bit of information too. 
To begin the new year, the new collector and custodian of material for this eolnnm and I sailed out of New Orleans late in Jqna looking for submarines, and found Joe Harrington wait­ing on the dock in Panama. He was very Idnd to us, and to help anyone going there, if yoa can get in touch with him, it would be well to do so— we saw sights that most one-day visitors simply can't see. Only, if yon don't like soldiers, sailors, and tough construction men don't go to Panama. But to make a very long story very short, after leaving Joe and returning to the states, missing Jeny Kane, who came in from Peru to be married in Panama, and Jim Baaf, who came up from the same place on a visit, we dropped in on Fred Digfcy in New Orleans. Fred had just returned from a trip on the Golf Coast the day we arrived and even under handi­caps showed us a wonderful time. He is working in the advertising department of a certain news­paper in New Orleans. 
Then back home and have had very little to do since. Whoever said that brokerage was a boatncss. lied. But enough of woe. Canae for rejoidns was a pleasant and totally nnsospceted smpriae—Vkas* Oaaaiaduia wrote sarins that be was not adam back to Ibrvard but was instead enteiinc th» Dowiinlem Noritiate in. I believe. Bivtr Eocot, VL FVank already has a younger brodier, DonaHL in the seminary and Donald is jost as or poasOly more^ intelligent than Frank, and a better pair of priests it would be hard to imasine 
Dick Aatea, being in town for the •meidSat, a very wdccma and very surprising gnest, said that he was still with the Drover's National Bank; that Jiss Walsh vnu now with XarshaU FW l doing some sort of tax work and bad bflcooie rsii domestic. Charley Nebaa almost came with BidC but at. the last minute couldn't. In that eaaa a. letter from Charley is almost certainly called for. 
The saddest news that I reedved in the eonaa of the'entire period since graduation eama in • card &om New York saying that Jshit Mitm had died on June 18, and his funeral was to take place the following Friday. Fiedng togetbar. stoifes that we have heard, John was idck oidta a bit this winter and spring and the ivitan t struggle affected hia heart and the strain of fighting off a serious siege of pneumonia was hm much. Tliose who knew John at school, the ms h that he did in the Servers Chb, the Vineenttans. the "Sdwlastie;" the Patricians and many other more or less well knovni activities, reneeted lui» because he was always putting fcim^jf out i a order to do someone a service. From my knowIedBt he is the first.of the class to go since gradnatiflo and cert^nly God could not have a finer servant before ICm. 
Jiai Ganaan. terror of third floor Lyons, who dropped out before graduating (but not befose making a lasting and very happy impression) dropped a wedding annonncement my way late in the summer. He was married on August IS to Hiss Both Hamacheck of Shdioygan, Wis. Unless monory is completely failiiqr, ^m is managing a movie theatre there and, aceor£ar lo my source of information, doing very well at iC 
Denny IKneen. the original mad sdentist, wnita shortly after oar return saying that on the dtay of oar wedding. Jane 26, he became the pmaA father of twin girls. He was married last lUI to Hiss Lanra Graff, the home town giri, and i s at present working in Passsie N. J. in the ptaat of the V. S. Bobber Ca, being connected Witt the researdi laboratory there. Tbe address a l which he can be reached is 260 Gregory Ave. in FSusaie. 
Earlier in tiiis epistle forgot to mention that on returning home we missed Frank Claifc at thn station by about ten minotes beeanse oar tiafa was late. He was in town for about a wedt an business and he and tha Bisr<siis bad quits n time. Speaking of the Beardon fan^ , on Sept. • it became a trio, a beanUfol little girl being tts addition. Mother, baby, Itom doing mil . 
And as long aa this looks Uks a list of Tital statistics, grab bold of snmtthfng soUd: Fl ^ GariieM was married Sept. 7 to IBss Hartiat Moorman Boe, in Finkneyville, HL Kank is tts new basketball coach at the CatboUe msb sited in Joliet, HL, 40 ndles outaida Oiieaga. 
The windop of this rather short month, wbiek really is about a quarter of a year, came in t« » unexpected and deli^tfnl surprises. First of all a call while I was bard at work at the offiee (n did find out what a three letter word "diving bird" and ending in "d" was) the ] buzxad and after a few minutes of more or 1 confused stammering aroand found that tbe ] on tbe other end sidd fbmt he was Jse llsrilagtsn Having been fooled cnee before by a card sayiac that Joe was in MinnesoU selling hybrid can and I widi that I knew who wrats that cmt4— knew better than to believe it. But this tiaw it waa true and Joe waa just pulling oat, aa leave for a visit in Ibwa. Batnning. tboo ^ is * had qoite a time one IViday night. As it taraaA 
out. in addition to everything else, Joe was a mass of information on the class. Unfortunately fome of the things he told me are not quite clear enough to write. Subject to confirmation this is some of it: Jade Snllivan has started up in the insurance racket in Chicago in partnership with Tom Hoftty, Frank Kelly is married and living in St. Augustine (I think), working in a lumber yard there. Jim Raaf has a splendid position with the Grace lane in Peru, and according to Jcro' Kane, via Joe, should be an important person in the Grace organization one ot these days. Joe had 
•quite a bit of other information but would prefer to wait for confirmation on most of it before printing—this is a new policy, inaugurated this month and good till further notice at least one month in advance. 
Just before sitting down to write the column the postman dropped a letter on my lap that was doubly welcome. Before jcoing any further, any person in the world who has information on anyone in this class is perfectly welcome to send in letters, clippings, miscellaneous information, or what have you, at any time. So if someone outside the class who might have any idea on some of the boys and is holding back because of some nuestion of the propriety of it all, let him or her hold back no longer. This particularly choice bit of information was. a letter full of news about \\nsconsin folk mostly, and if Frank Parks can do as well, we'll forgive him, or do we have things backwards? Frank and Dick Bcrsen are roommates in second j'ear law at Wisconsin—and honestly, if I had their address they'd get a letter. The O'Mclias are both at Jtfarqucttc and also in law. 
Adolph "Butch" Kamm was married August 13 to Miss Mary Coury of St. Mary*s and Santa Rosa, N. M. They are living temporarily at 902 2^. Inland St., South Bend. Butch is still witli the brewery of the same name. AVhile on his way to the ceremony in New Mexico, Butch stoppcsl off in Rocky Ford. Colo., to say hello to Joe Dunn and found him hard at work and quite happy. Jim PetriUo (now where have I heard that name mentioned?) was married in June, but the bride's name is unknown and information would be appreciated. 
And that seems to be about all for the first month of the second year of this class's notes. Next time, better—we hope. Would particularly like to hear from Dick Anton. Charley Kelson. Carl Fridce, Tom Cronin. Charley Bennett. Jim Walsh, Hagii Gar\-ey, and Bob Hoag before the snow falls; and from Jnlie Kristen (denying or confirming rumors w-e have heard) and Ed 
•O'Connor sometime before Christmas. The new address is 205 Brush Creek (and no cracks!) Kansas City. Mo. 
After holding down several temporary jobs and a year of trying to crash the aviation field. Norman Jandoli finally made the grade and is now working in the payroll department of the Wright Aeronautical Corp., in Paterson, X. J, 
Harvey Foster, LL,B., *:>9, w-ho is with the F.B.I., stop^ped in the Alumni sanctum sanctorum August 12 on his way to Puerto Rtco. Har\'ey reported that his wife had suffered an appendicitis operation in South Bend. 
All Alumni who feel somewhat proud of their prowess on the links will undoubtedly feel the pangs of jealousy in noting the progress of Fred 
B. Govern, who carried an M.A. from the campus in *39. Fred swung around the Syracuse course in 81-75 to gain third place in the Central New York Open. At Rochester, in the Lake Shore Open. 2ie banged out a 76-78 for seventh amateur place in -a field of 30 hopefuls. Fred collected plenty of prizes for winning the Catskill Mountain Invita­tional tourney in Stamford to conclude his golfing exhibitions. 
Fnnk Brislit (Law MO), of all people, was wor­ried about passing the New Jersey bar exam. Frank said that Dave Gelbcr had gone through the exam with flying colors. 
With the aid of the Placement Bureau and out­side aid. the following '39ers have stepped into the employed class: Charles S* Reddy (liaw MO) is with Kemper Insurance of Chicago; Earll Winter­rowd (Law '40) is one of J. Edgar Hoover's F.B.I. agents; Bob Wilson is working for Oliver Farm Equipment. South Bend; John C Hynes (Law MO) is doing legal work for Travelers Insurance. South Bend; Angle Bossn, former football guard, will head the coaching staff at Chaminade High school. Mineola, L. I.. N. Y. 
Jim McGoIdrick, former captaiu and guard, is returning to Notre Dame for law and freshman coaching. 
Louis Ottmer is traveling for the Gehl Bros. Mfg. firm of West Bend, Wis. Lou was married July 3 here at N. P. 
Michael McGuirc. who annexed an M.S. in MO to go along with his B.S. in *39. is a chemist at Ball Band. Mishawaka, Ind., through the efforts of the Placement Bureau. 
General Electric Contract Corp. boasts the presence of Fred Simon, of Waco, Texas, in its organization in Memphis. Fred spent last year in the University of Texas I-aw School. 
Four of "our Irish*' with the Marino Corps sta­tioned at Quantico. Va., are Fenton J. Mec, (Law MO), John Scott, *38, Bob Kennedy, M.A., MO, and George G. Haggerty, '40. 
Louis F. McKean* Alexandria, La., took his temporary C.S.C. vows, after completing his noviccship, among a group of seminarians at St. Joseph's Novitiate. Rolling Prairie, Ind., in July. 
10>IA Robert G. Sanfoid, 3934 N. MmzyUad 
I Till Ave., MUwankee. Wis, 
Joe Mnlqneen. Council Bluffs, Iowa, who is back at Notre Dame for graduate courses in the Department of Social Work, was elected by the class in the summer's mail ballot as a director of the Alumni Associa­tion for 1940-41. 
Bob Sanford gets away to this elegant start: 
My bright outlook for the news of the class of MO is already well overshadowed by dark clouds of little news. Bill Dooley told me that I was very optimistic in my expectations of quick replies to my numerous letters, but he soothed my bitter feelings by sending mc enough ne^vs to take care of the first publication. However, in the following issues I will be counting on each one of you to make this class news the greatest of all by letting me know all about your activities. 
A few very in formative letters were received during the summer months and it really is a great pleasure to have a few regular contributors who will come through every month. Dave Spraike, the secretary of the engineers of MO, seemed to have just as much trouble as I did, but still came through with a very nice report. Dave says: "Pve been working since July 1 in the engineering department of the Miller Co., a local concern. At present. I am trying to understand the intricacies of the flourescent light and to get acquainted with the company that pays me every Friday. What a glorious feeling that is! John Hicinbothem (H.E.) writes that he is busy these days studying the process of tractor assembly in the plant of the Caterpillar Tractor Co. in Peoria, III. John is a member of the student training course. JiiM Varga (CE.). also a member of the student training course at Caterpillar, has been bnsy in the clutch department. John "Mack" Dnim-Rould (CE.) has been absorbing plenty of sun> shine during the summer months while doing field work for the New York Central Railroad. By this time he has probably, moved indoors. Ed Pratt (A.E.) shortly completes the first leg of his stu­dent training program at the Pratt & Whitney division of the United Aircraft. East Hartford, Conn. He has been studying production and manu­facturing methods and w^ill soon be transferred, probably to sales. During the summer months Bob Bard and Ray Zalkr (both A.E.) were last heard from at Yellowstone National Park. Bob presumably was on his way to take up employment with the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation in Cali­fornia." 
Dave wants to continue his good work, so it's up to you engineers to inform your secretary and ke ^ your lengthy news near the top all year long. 
Before going to New York to work Phil Sand-maier took time out from his numerous tasks to write a swell letter. Phil writes: "I worked for two months at Republic Steel in the Accounts Payable department and then vacationed till Sept. 
9. I'm flying East within the next few days to start work at Hasldns & Sells, and I'll be staying with GeoiKe Wallace for a few days. George is engaged to Mary Donahue, but is unemployed as of last notice. Dick Kelly and his fiance. Mildred Reed, viere over the other night, Dick is working 
at the Shovel Co.. (I can't decipher the name, Phil, but if Dick would write and let mc know more about his work we would all bo satis­fied)—in a training course—expects to sell in nine months or so. 
"Pong Eby is working in Cleveland at the Re­public Steel Corporation in the Accounts Receiv­able department. Paul Hackman was working-last I saw him^ n the accounting department of Woohvorths in Cleveland. Marty Regan. Art Madelens, and Mcr\- Shea were on the U. S. S. Wyoming's Naval Reserve cruise. Bob Nolan will be working at Haskins & Sells soon, and Joe Cumminffs has been working .in New York since June. The three of us will be living together as soon as it all can be arranged, so there will be no lonely c\'enings. as you can well imagine." 
Ted Brush has been in Milwaukee since the middle of June and I have seen him quite often. Ted is working for Allis-Chalmers Manirfacturing Co. in the accounting department. His work thus far has consisted in checking and computing the salaries from the time cards. He works hard and very seldom goes out during the week. Just like Notre Dame, isn't it, Ted? Two more members of the class of MO have invaded Milwaukee and are doing well in their work. Floyd Sullivan is in the Pflugradt General Electric Co. selling air-conditioning and headng units. From all I have seen, he is very prosperous and has little trouble in making himself at home in Milwaukee. Bob Sdimidt came to the home tow^n after spending a couple of months in Wausau in a training course. He is working as an underwriter in the Employers Mutual Insurance Company. 
I drove to West Bend to see what Matt Gonring was doing, but. instead of seeing him, I spent an interesting hour or two with his father. Matt is working for the Goodyear Tire and Rubber (>). He started work in Chicago, but is now up in Minneapolis, and by the time this is published he may be some place else. His Minneapolis address is: 327 14th Ave. S.E., Minneapolis. Minn. 
Three great personalities are living together in Chicago now. "Big Jim" Donoghae. Jerry Dono­van, and J«hn Gavan are working in Chicago and manage to see each other in the evenings. Jim and Jerry are working with Kemper Insurance, and Johnny is working for Morton Salt Co. I've tried to get hold of these boys when I was in Chicago, but they never seem to be home. Their address is 936 Gunnison St., Chicligo. 
Received two cards in the mail last week, one from J«^n y Gordon in Genoa City^ Wis., and 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the other from Jim SuUivmn in Hamburi;, N. Y. John writes: "Have been here all summer as desk clerk. Go to work for J. C. Penney Co. in Ce^r Rapids, Iowa. Oct. I." 
Sully has a little more to say: "This is to let you in on some inside dope. No. I don't mean me, but then I do 'cause if there's any space left in the 'Alumnus' you would like to fill, you can say that I'm employed by the Bethlehem Steel Co. as A timekeeper at their steel mill in X^ackawanna. 
N. Y.—Frmnk Novak—^*39 is also the same, and we thinfc the boys should have a 'rip-snortin*' good team this fall.** thanks. Sull. for the news and senil us your address so we can fcet in touch with you. 
Dan Hoshck came into town in Autoii^t after being out at the family summer cottage since June and started selling insurance for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Milwaukee. He has already sold a policy, with a $150 commission coming in soon. John Dean, the Commerce man, was lifeguard at one of the beaches this summer; while Jolin Deane, the lawyer, felt that the sum­mer was well spent because he passed the Wis­consin bar exam last month. 
ProfeaMr Plankett of the College of Science helped me out by giving me a list of the "Pre-Meds" and the Medical schools they expect to attend. Jim Armbnutcr. Ohio State: Hank Armi­tacr. Tufts; Joe Carlncci. Long Island: John "Joe" Coartney, Indiana (I'm still waiting for an answer to that letter. John) : Phil Danghcrty. Tennessee: Boh Demetcr, Western Keserve: Lo Ccnni, Temple: Wayne Pencil. St. Louis; Frank Fenwl, Pennsylvania: Bob Pish, Michigan: John­ny Flynn, Jefferson; Bob Frost, Georgetown; Johnny Gilrane, Southern Cal.; John Hillenbrand. Western Reserve; Johnny Kellcher is at Jefferson (he was married in early September): John Kerrl­gan. Western Reserve; Howard Hein'. Wayne U.: Gene Leonard, Northwestern; Tom LeStrange. Jefferson: Ed McIiSaghlin, Georgetown. (How about some news from you. Mac?); Park Mullen. Tennessee; Frank Mnrph}-. Georgetown: Kev O'Goruan, Buffalo; Roy Pinclli, St. Louis; Chaefc (George) Patemo, Long Island; Bob (Rub­en) Robinctt, Western Reserve; Ed (Rosy) Ros­anelU. Georgetown; John Schroeder, Maniuette. (Look me up. Johnny); Ben Saeli, St. Louis; Otto Stegmaier, St. Louis; Bod Teah. Pennsylvania; Frank Wanek. Creighton; BUI Wicks, Chicago; Chock Zegiob, St. Louis. There's a little informa-Uon about each one, but not much in detul. It really would be nice to hear from all of you and find out how N. D, compares with all these other schools. 
Jim Casper is so satisfied with his work at the Pressed Steel Tank Co. that he is planning on staying there and not continuing his work in med-schooL Neal Gleaion is going to Marquette Law School after traveling most of the sum­mer. A funny thing happened while he was away. While visiting Dick Kelly in Lorain. Ohio, he sent a telegram; two days later his folks re­ceived a telegram from Texas, but Neal says he never was there or else he wandered a little off his course because at that time he was in Poug­keepsie. He had a meal with Bob Shea while he was there, but missed seeing Frank Morphy. ^ght now I'm selling real estate while waiting for an accounting job to open. If any of you plan on buying a home let me know and I'll see what I can do. 
Spealcing of homes, Tony Potenziani, who wus married at school, has built himself, and Mrs. Potenziani, of course, a new home in Aurora, 111., his home town. He is district manager of the Standard Register Co. Walt Fleming has made his home in Dallas, Texas, and is working for Fleming ft Sons, Inc. 
Some of the fellows are returning to the cam­pus for further work. Tom Marker is returning to work toward a Master's Degree. . . . Bill Hogan is going to do some more work in sehoc^ . . . Boh Wille is returning for graduate work In chemistry . . . WaUy Borer is doing some extra work on the campus .. . Ed Keen is following graduate work in aeronautics . . . Bemic SalB­van is taking Mechanical Engineering at N.D. Johnny "Duke" Ellis is back for graduate social service work . . . Charles Dell is returning to enter the Law School . . . John Rcddy and Jahn Reed are back for further work in graduate studies . . . Bob Sullivan, grand knight of the Knights of Columbus on the campus, is in the Law School and coaching freshman football . . . Gene Klier is following graduate work in Metal* lurgy . . . Others of our class are taking gradu­ate work at other schools. Ibe following will be at the Har\'ard Law School, if expectations and reports pun out: Paul Hcllmath, D«c Han­nan, Tom Hackett, Tom Ford. John Dllkra, BUI Dougherty, Elwood Lavery, and John Meancy. 
Harr>' Boisrert has a law scholarshrp at Cath­olic U. . . . Bob Windheim is coach at Abb^ School, Canon City. Colo. . . . Jtrfinny Mclntyre is coach at Crystal Lake, HI.. High School . . . Steve Sitko is with the Goodyear Tire ft Rubber Co. in Jackson, Mich. . . . Joe O'Connell is going to Georgetown Law School . . . Joe Kis u is at 
M.I.T. for graduate work . . . Afike Corgan is coaching and teaching at St. Johns, Mich. .. . Tommy Fitzpatrick is a physical education teach­er and coach in the Oakland Public Schools in California . . . Chris Flanagan Is going to Al­bany Law School, Albany, N. -Y. . . . Pete Rcilly is at Fordham I,aw School . . . Bill Kerr is coaching at the hi ^ school in Goshen. Ind. . . . Ben Sheridan is coaching at the John Adams High School. South Bend. . . . 
Chuck mille is coaching at the Vincentian In­stitute (CS.C. school), Albany, N. Y; . . . Cap Johnny Kelly is coaching at the Canterbury School, New Milford. Conn. . . . Loa Zontini is in the professional football league with Ihe (Chica­go Cardinals Joe Thesing, after being elected the only Notre Dame man on the starting All-Star team, is athletic director at the Fenwick Club in Cincinnati . . . Nate Bond is coaching at the high school in Greenville, Ohio . . . Bex Ellis pitched for a farm club of the Cincinnati Reds . . . Ted Leonas is working for his Master's at Chicago Normal . . . Bob Lawrence is coach at the high school in Peabody. Kansas . . . Boh McLeod and Bob Barber attended the Republican Convention in Philadelphia. 
Bill Fay, editor of the "Scholastic," is contin­uing his journalism work as a reporter for the "Post Gazette" in Pittsburgh. Word comes from St. Mary's that Joe Mal(|«een is back at school, working toward his Master's. Joe Sotak • has picked the University of Michigan for graduate work. Frank Gnindon is continuing his study in journaUsm at Bridgewater State Teacher's Col­lege. Bridgewater, Mass. Bill Joyce wrote a short note saying that he was working: in the insur­ance business with his brother in Tempc, Ariz. Hank Engel is working in Chicago at the Provi­dence Washington Insurance Co. Just heard that Jack Deane, lawyer, is assistant football coach at Marquette High School in Milwaukee. 
The news in this issue is rather limited, but as soon as everyone gets in the habit of writing we will have a much belter column. It's more inter­esting to have a few long items about a ntun­ber of the fellows than these .short notices that are rather teasing in their information. Before the next issue we would like to hear from all of you. both those that were mentioned and espe­cially those who have gone into hiding since June. Be assured that all letters will be an­swered as soon as possible and that there is an open invitation to one and all, at all times, to submit letters. 
Last minute adds from the Placement Bureau: Rex Ellis is athletic director and basket>iall coach at Ryder College, Trenton. N. J. 
is back at N. D. for graduate work in .rtiwnlrtiy. 
TwtA W«UI is in the industrial relations depart­
ment of the Oliver Iron Mining Company. Dnloth. 
a V. S. Steel subsidiary. J«e GTcimw is «i& 
Young, Fitzgerald ft Co.. public aeemmtants. at 
141 West Jackson Blvd.. Chicago. J«h» Waif. 
Mishawaka, is, for the first sonester, teadiing 
accotmting in the College of Commerce in the 
place of Professor Watson, who is on leave for ­
the 

NEW YEAR BEGINS 
(Continoed from Page 4) 

Ohio State University to the organic re­
search division of the Department of 
Chemistry, as an instmctor. 
Electrical oigineering adds as instmc­tors Harold E. Ellifhom and P. A. Gnar­ino, both formerly connected vrith the Hygrade Sylvania Corp., Salon, Mass. 
The Department of Mathematics adds an assistant professor, an instructor, and a teachhig fellow in tiie persons, respee-. tivdy, of J. L. Kelley, PhJ)., formerly on the staff of Johns Hopkins Univer­sity; John P. Nash, Ph.D., formerly of Kice Institute, and Charles V. Robinson, Ph.D., formerly on the faculty of the U. of Missouri. 
The department of zoology adds John Mizelle, Ph.D., as an instructor, former­ly of Oklahoma A. and M. 
Mus open* Year Officially 

On September 15, speaking to the stu­dent body at the Solemn High Mass marking the opening of the 99th aca­demic year. Rev. J. Hugh CDonnell, president of the University, embodied in his sermon the deep underljnng faith present on Nov. 26, 1842, when Father Sorin first set foot on the campus of the University he was to found. 
"Today, as we gather here in solemn service to ask Ciod's blessing on another academic year, the international horizon is dark with the grim spectre of war. Our national outlook is bedimmed with ominous clouds, because so many of our people have forgotten God, the creator and end of mankind.... 
"Hope for America lies in the belief that, regardless of the storm clouds of war, citizens will look beyond the horizon and retum to a recognition and worship of God. The return may not come soon; it may not come for a generation, but come it must as our people reawaken to the truth and wisdom underlying Chris­tian civilization. Such hope is based on the premise that the spark of belief in God and the Christian religion still bums within the breasts of the 70 or more mfl­lions now apparently deaf to the divine command: 'Thou shalt not have strange grods before Me.'" 
The University of Notre Dame du Lac 
Notre Dame, ln(diana, U. S. A. 
Colleges and Departments 

COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Department of Religion Department of Sociology 
Department of Philosophy Department of Social Work 
Department of English Department of Education 
Department of Classics Department of Physical Education 
Department of Modem Language Department of Art 
Department of History Department of Music 
Department of Economics Department of Speech 
Department of Politics Department of Journalism 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 

Department of Biology Department of Physics Department of Chemistry Department of Mathematics (Special programs for pre-medical and for pre-dental students) 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Department of Civil Engineering Department of Mining Engineering Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Chemical Engineering Department of Electrical Engineering Department of Metallurgy Department of Architecture Department of Aeronautical Engineering 
Department of Engineering Drajving 

COLLEGE OF LAW  
COLLEGE OF  COMMERCE  
Department  of Finance  Department  of Foreign  Commerce  
Department  of Business  Administration  Department  of  Accounting  
GRADUATE  SCHOOL  
Philosophy  History  Politics  Education  Chemistry  Mathematics  
English  Economics  Sociology  Biology  Physics  Metallurgy  
Social Work  

NOTE TO ALUMNI 
Please urge early registration, preferably first semester of the senior high school year or earlier, for relatives or friends. Three advantages accrue: 
1.
 The applicant is sure of coming within the quota of the College of the University he chooses, if accepted. 

2.
 The applicant is sure of securing a room on the campus, if accepted. 

3.
 The applicant learns upon application of any deficiencies in entrance requirements, before completing high school. 


Action on the above suggestions will pre­vent many of the disappointments to alumni and friends which occurred this year in con­junction with a capacity enrollment well ahead of the opening of school. 
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS Notre Dame 
OROUP I—Nine Required (Ten in Science and Engineering) English (all CoHeBes)-. 3 units History (all Colleses) —— , 1 unit Algebra (all Colleges) . 1 unit Geometry (all Colleges)-, 1 unit Science (Eng. and Sci.-Physics required)-, 1 unit Tjinguage (all CoUeges)-. 2 units 
Science (except for prc-medicaJ course) and Enf^inecnni; require }^ unit each of Int. or A«lv. Alfrcbra. and Solid Geometry. 
GROUP IT English. -Ith year . -„ 1 unit 
Latin —_ . 2 to 4 units Greek 2 or 3 units French . ._.....-. 2 to 4 units German _ . 2 to 4 units Spanish — . 2 to 4 units History 2 units Algebra (Int. or Adv.)-^ unit Solid Geometry % unit Trigonometry , % unit Physiography _% unit Physiology — _% unit Astronomy — _% unit Botany -% unit Zoology .....— -% unit Chemistry _™. .-1 unit Physics -1 unit 
GROUP III--(Not more than Three counted) Elcctives—Any subjects which High School accredits. 
MINIMUM TOTAL REQUIRED-..15 units 








