The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
.3SSITT< 1 ^  Vol.36April,  No 1958  3  
UMum  JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, "S Editor JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48 Managing Editor  


Kennedy Warns of Moral 'Disaster' 
Receiving the 1958 senior class Patriotism Award Febmar^' 22, Senate investigator Robert F. Kennedy warned that "disaster is our destiny" unless certain "dangerous changes in Ameri­can life" are reversed by toughness, moral idealism and a spirit of self-sacrifice. 
Kennedy cited the collaboration of American prisoners of war with the enemy in Korea and "the moral debase­ment of the tnie ideals of organized labor" as reflections "not just on the Army, not just on organized labor, but on all of us as Americans... AVhat this means could be fatal to our nation's future, particularly in time of world crisis," he declared. 
One out of ever)' ten American prisoners of war in Korea "informed on his fellow prisoners on at least one occasion," Kennedy asserted, and "a third of all the Anny prisoners collabo­rated to some extent with the Chinese." The collaboration that took place was not due to a sympathy for Communism nor, with a few notable exceptions, to torture or brainwashing, Kennedy con­tended. On the part of a large per­centage of Americans, he said, "there was a complete lack of self-discipline: there was very little real understanding of the United States, its history or prin­ciples; and there was no real strong belief in anything—the Army, family, religion, or even themselves." 
What happened in Korea is not the only disturbing sign of our times, Ken­nedy observed. "What has happened in some segments of organized labor within the past twenty years must shock us all," he said. Senate investigations have disclosed, he said, that "more than ten million dollars in union funds have 
(Continued on last page) 

Frank Folsom Awarded 75th Anniversary Laetare Medal 
Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, generally regarded as the oldest and ­most significant annual award conferred upon American Catholic la)'men, has been presented on its 75th anniversary to Frank M. Fol­som, executive committee chairman and former president of the Radio Corporation of America. A leader in wartime government service, he is now a pennanent Vatican delegate to the International Atomic 
Energy Agency. 

Lourdes Indulgences Granted by Holy See 
GROTTO: Throughout the Lourdes Centenar)' Year (see page 3) every visit to the Grotto merits these in­dulgences accorded by the Holy See: 
1.
 A Plenary Indulgence is granted for each visit made by a group (5 or 6) of the faithful who have duly confessed their sins and received Communion, and who pray for the intention of the Holy Father {Pater, Ave, Gloria). 

2.
 A Partial Indulgence of seven years is granted to any individual who visits the Grotto with suitable dispo­sitions of mind and heart {Pater, Ave, Gloria). 


CONFRATERNITY: Other Indul­gences can be gained throughout your lifetime by membership in the Con­fraternity of the Immaculate Concep­tion of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame. Benefits include Lourdes water, intentions in Mass every Saturday on the campus, and a plenary indulgence under the ordinary conditions (Con­fession, Communion, etc.) on the day of admission, at the hour of death, and each year on several feasts of the Blessed Virgin plus, by recent Vatican decision, the Feast of St. Bemadette, (Continued on last page) 
Fifty-nine men and sixteen women had previously received the Medal since it was establbhed in 1883 to honor those "whose genius . has en­nobled the arts and sciences, illustrated" the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity." Historiain John Gilmar)' Shea was the first recipient, and Clare Boothe Luce, former U. S. ambassador to Italy, received the award last year. 

The Laetare Medal is the American counterpart of the "Golden Rose," a papal honor antedating the eleventh century. Like the ancient Vatican award, it is a symbol of loyalty to Catholic ideals. The recipient of the Laetare Medal for 1958 was selected by a committee headed by Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Following tradition, the award winner was named by Father Hesburgh on March 16th which is Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent, and an occasion of joy in the lituigy of the Church. The actual presentation of the award each year is arranged for a time and place convenient to the recipient. 
Previous businessmen to receive the award include I. A. O'Shaughnessy (1953), John Henry Phelan (1951) imd John A. Creighton (1900). 
A detailed story will appear in the next ALUMNUS. 

35th UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT APRIL 14. 1958 



A Statement of Christian Higher Education 
Following is the full text oj the statetnent prepared by a group of Catholic and Protestant educators under the auspices of the Commission on Chris­tian Higher Education of the Association of American Colleges. It was accepted as a report by the commission at the association's January, 1958, convention in Miami Beach. 
"The Christian churches, from the formation of our republic, have 
been deeply involved in education. These churches actually established 
our earliest colleges and set the pattern for much of our system of higher 
education. Through their educational programs they have continued to 
develop and safeguard the religious faith and democratic idealism of 
our countr)'. 
"Undue emphasis on the material elements of twentieth-centurj' edu­
cation has led to a neglect of, and a disregard for, the values of religion 
and religious thinking in our culture. In the complexities and pressures 
of contemporary life, the true meaning of life and a sense of responsibility 
are being obscured or lost in confusion. 
"There is a critical need of an expansion of higher education that gives wisdom as well as knowledge. If our spiritual heritage in education is to be perpetuated, Christian higher education must be emphatically re-emphasized, and all persons concerned with our country's welfare must give it high priority. 
"As Christians we share with all educators commitment to the 
generally accepted basic principles of higher education, such as the pri­
macy of truth, honesty in the search for truth, integrity in the teaching 
of truth, respect for persons in the dissemination of truth, excellence in 
teaching and scholarship, and the acceptance of social responsibility. 
"All philosophies of education must rest upon certain presuppositions of faith which ultimately determine the nature of education. It is our conviction that knowledge of reality and of the meaning of life is adequate and complete only in the light of the revelation of Jesus Christ by which, consistent with our Christian traditions, all our teaching must be judged. 
"Some of the most significant and important aspects of higher education can in the long view be maintained only through this kind of education. In Christian higher education spiritual values are made real; and mundane actixnties become endowed with spiritual significance. All knowledge of the sciences and all enjoyment of the arts are God's gifts to man so that he may have the abundant life of tliose created in the image of God. 
"We believe that under God man is free and responsible; that because of the fact of human sin, man's mind and will must be set free if he is to know aright, live in love and in true accord with God and his fellowmen. 
"The Christian college is a community of teachers and students seek­ing to know the nature of the universe created by God and the kind of society in which man can live according to God's will. Education in this context enables the student to leam and grow within the framework of a meaning and purpose that unifies and orders his knowledge, illumines his appreciations, and gives direction to his existence. 
"The Christian college offers to our generation an interpretation of the whole of knowledge, a way of life and of learning, and a sense of earthly vocation and eternal purpose without which sciences and arts, inventions and technology may enslave and destroy mankind. 
"This Christian conviction of the unity of truth, of the love of God, and of man's nature as a child of God is the surest safeguard of freedom, high ethical and moral standards, and social responsibility. 
"Further, we affirm that this commitment to the freedom of our colleges and universities imder God is the ultimate safeguard of these institutions against domination by the state or by other forces within our culture. 
"For these reasons Church-related colleges—upon which this Christian higher education depends—must be maintained at all costs." 

Cackley Named to Foundation Post 
The appointment of John N. Cackley 
as assistant director of the Notre Dame 
Foundation was announced her e 
reeently by Rev. 
John J. Cavanaugh. 
CS.C. 
In addition to 
his new administra­
tive duties, Cackley 
will also serve as 
editor of Founda­
t i o n publications 
including NOTRE 
DAME, the quar­
terly feature magazine. Father Cava­
naugh said. He has been managing 
editor of both NOTRE DAME and 
the ALUMNUS. 
James E. Armstrong will continue as assistant Foundation director and ex­ecutive secretar)' of the 27,000-member Notre Dame Alumni Association, Fa­ther Cavanaugh said. Armstrong, who has been the University's alumni secre­tary since 1926, retains his position as editor of the ALUMNUS. 
John F. Laughlin, who will assist in the editing of both University publica­tions, was named managing editor of the ALUMNUS. 

Cackley, a 1937 graduate, joined the University staff ten years ago. A World \Var II E.T.O. veteran, he formerly was associated with the General Motors , Corp. as a field representative, with the State Department as its vice consul at Marseille, and with the U. S. Savings Bond Division as its deputy director for West Virginia. 
Associated with the Notre Dame j administration since his graduation in 1925, Armstrong is nationally recog­nized as an authority on alumni organi­zation and programs. He is a former vice president of the American Alumni Council. Currently he is an AAC district director as well as national di-' rector of the organization's annual con­vention to be held at Lake Placid, 
N. Y., in June. 
Prior to his employment by Notre Dame last August, Laughlin was editor of a South Bend political weekly and a labor publication at the Bendix Avia­tion Corp., and a writer for the South Bend Tribune. He is a 1948 graduate of the University. 
Alahe 3>ame AoUi . . . 
CAMPUS: On February 11 the University celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Viigin Mary's apparition at Lourdes with a Solemn High Mass and procession in Sacred Heart Church with a relic of St. Bemadette, and opened the Lourdes Cen­tennial Year at the Grotto, official center of U.S. devotion to Our Lady of Lourdes until February 11, 1959. . . . "Pending Impacts on Collective Bargaining" was the theme of Notre Dame's sixth annual Union-Management Conference, Feb­
• ruary 28 in Washington Hall, attended by more than 500 labor leaders and industrial relations executives. Joseph F. Finnegan, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and Albert J. Hayes, JAM president and AFL-CIO ethical practices chairman, headed a list of experts at the event, sponsored by the economics department in cooperaticHi with the Law School, under founder-director Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C. . . . Margaret Anglin, 1927 recipient of the Laetare Medal and, according to the New York Times, "one of America's great actresses," died January 7 in Toronto, Canada, at the age of 81. . . . The University has launched its lai^est fund drive to ameliorate internal development, faculty salaries, etc., seeking, through the Notre Dame Foundation, a minimum of $66.6 million by 1968. .. . Sir Pierson 
•- DLxon, permanent representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations, spoke on "Diplomacy at the UN" Januar)' 20 under the auspices of Notre Dame's Committee on International Relations. . . . The University Gallery has acquired a group of early Christian art objects for its permanent collection, including a number of early Coptic textiles from Northern Egypt (300-700 A.D.) and a gold coin dating from the reign of Julian the Apostate in the 4th Century, donated by Peter Tozzi, Jr., of New York City. 
FACULTY: Father Hesburgh has sandwiched several major appearances between commitments to the National Science 
^ Board, the Civil Rights Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency. On January 12 he addressed 4,CKX) Catholic students of Michigan State University at the dedication of the Newman Club's St. John Church and Catholic Student Center, describing Cardinal Newman as a model for the Christian intellectual. February 3 and 4 he participated in a national science conference at Yale University with CIA director Allen Dulles, presidential advisor Dr. James Kil­lian, Jr., NSF director Dr. Alan Waterman, CalTech president Dr. Lee DuBridge and Yale president Dr. A. W. Gris­wold. And on Februar)' 23 he was one of several leading educators on "Education for What?" the pilot telecast in the CBS "Great Challenge" series. . . . Father John A. O'Brien, between editions of his popular books, assisted in "Operation Door­
^ bell," a statewide Catholic census and information program launched by the Wisconsin hierarchy, which resulted in him­dreds of Wisconsin conversions by January. On February 6 he addressed the Teachers' Institute of the Archdiocese of New York in Manhattan, characterizing the Catholic school system as "the greatest religious and moral fact in America." . . . Dr. 
G. Herbert True, assistant professor of marketing, was a featured speaker at the Miami Beach convention of the National Automobile Dealers Association January 14, calling on the automotive industry to cultivate new ideas and deploring the present trend toward conformity. 
STUDENTS: Democratic national chairman Paul M. Sutler, '27, and Republican Senator Houier E. Capehart of Indiana-were the principal speakers at a banquet of the Academy of Political Science, a student organization of political science majors, at the Morris Inn February 27. . . . Senior class president Don McNeill conferred on Senate investigator Robert 
F. Kennedy the 1958 Patriotism Award at traditional AVashington's Birthday exercises February 22 in the Drill Hall. Previous winners of the annual award include FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, General Curtis E. LeMay and Senator John F. Kennedy, brother of this year's recipient. . . . Debate teams representing thirty U. S. colleges and universities competed in the sixth annual Notre Dame National Invitational Debate Tournament held in the LaFortune Student Center March 7-8, won by Augustana College. 
ALUMNI: George N. Shuster, '15, president of New York's Hunter College, political scientist Jerome Kerwin, LL.D. 
. (hon.) '53, and Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., of the Notre Dame faculty will be among the participants in a symposium oil the Catholic contribution to American intellectual life to be held at Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois, Jime 14 and 
15. . . . MEDICO (Medical International Cooperation), a new program of the International Rescue Committee, Inc., came into being through the example of Dr. Tom Dooley, '48, best-selling chronicler of the .Viet Nam withdrawal (Deliver Us From Evil) now operating a hospital in Laos, Southeast Asia, and such colleagues as Africa's Dr. Albert Schweitzer and "BuiTTia Surgeon" Dr. Gordon Seagrave. It is an American voluntary relief organization with field offices in imder­developed areas around the world. . . . News copy sent out by the National Catholic Welfare Conference News Service is 
. recommended as a useful teaching aid in current events, social problems and debate preparation by Vincent G. McAlotm, '34, who teaches at Notre Dame International School in Rome, an institution founded by the Brothers of Holy Cross. Vince is a former president and now secretary-treasurer of the Notre Dame Club of Rome, Italy. 
SPORTS: \Vinding up its indoor season with a fine dual meet record and a long-overdue IC4A debut in New York, Alex Wilson's track team faces its outdoor schedule: Ohio Relays at Columbus, April 19; Drake Relays at Des Moines (or Penn at Philadelphia) April 25-26; Michigan State at Lansing, May 3; Pitt at home May 10; Indiana State Meet at Wabash, Crawfordsville, May 14; Marquette at Milwaukee May 14; CCC Meet, Milwaukee, June 7, and NCAA Championships, 
* Berkeley, Calif., June 13-14. . . . Having lost his entire starting infield and an outstanding battery (including catcher Elmer Kohorst, first N.D. AU-American) through graduations, baseball mentor Jake Kline should be in the dugout doldrums, but hope springs eternal in Coach Kline, who boasts a "pretty good fall practice." Hosting nearly all the Big 10 at home, the Irish will head south around Easter to meet Georgia at Athens April 3; Wisconsin, West Virginia and Florida State in Tallahassee, April 5-10, and Fort Kno.x, Ky., April 12. Also away: Michigan at Ann Arbor April 21, Wabash at Crawfords­ville April 26; Purdue at Lafayette April 29; Michigan State at East Lansing May 7; Wisconsin at Madison May 12-13; Northwestern at Evanston May 21, and Western Michigan at Kalamazoo May 23. . . . Tennis coach Tom Fallon has lost only one man, figures to be "pretty tough" with returning stars like Captain Ron Schoenberg and nationally-ranked Maxwell Brown. The team has a varied home schedule, will have an Easter trip that touches Louisville April 2, Cincinnati April 
Read in detail the broeliure on Notre Dame, Past, Present and Future 
3; Huntington, \V. Va., April 5, and the Cheny Blossom Tournament in ^Vashington, D. C , April 8-9-10-(Geoi^etown, Michigan, Geoi-ge AVasliington); plus dates in Kalamazoo April 18-19, Bloomington May 9-10, and Madison and Milwaukee, Wis., May 15 and 16. . . . Father Geoi-ge Holderith's golfers also have a strong returning contingent, will play some Big 10 triangulars at home, plus road appearances in Crawfordsvillc, Ind., April 21; East Lansing May 3, Iowa City May 12, and the National Collegiate Tournament in AVilliamstown, Mass.,-Juhe 22-28. . . . The traditional spring Old Timers football tilt will be in the stadium May 10 at 2:30 EST. 
ATTENTION ENGINEERS! All engineering alumni who are not listed in ll'/io'j IK/io in Engineering and who feel that they are qualified and would benefit from such a listing should write for the neccssar)' forms to: W. S. Downs, Editor, Who's Who in Engineering, 265 West 14th Street, New York 11, New York. . . . Also, recent graduates with backgrounds in engineering are eligible for several fellowships with values ranging from $2,000 to $5,000 for a two-year course at the Harvard Business School leading to the degree of Master in Business Administration. Ad­mission applications and scholarship forms should be secured from the Admissions Board, Har\-ard Business School, 
Boston 63, Massachusetts, and must be filed before May 1. 
KENNEDY 
(Continued from page 1) 
been stolen or misused." Furthennore, "to an important degree, the demo­cratic processes within certain unions have been crushed, the membere' wishes ignored, union elections rigged, pos­sible opponents threatened, union con­stitutions disregarded, and union mem­bers deceived," he claimed. 
Citing numerous specific examples of labor racketeering, sometimes in collusion with management, Kennedy emphasized that "the role of manage­ment in all these activities is hardly one of which we can be proud. The management representatives who have appeared before our committee," he said, "have shown an equal lack of ethical standards and moral integrity." 
"Dangerous changes in American life are indicated by what is going on in America today," Kennedy stressed. "Disaster is our destiny unless we rein-still the tougliness, the moral idealism 

ANNUAL 
ALUMNUS Magazine Vol. 36, No. 3 April, 1958 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
which guided George \Vashington and his associates some 160 years ago. The " paramount interest in oneself, for money, for material goods, for security, must be replaced by an interest in one another, an actual, not just a vocal, interest in our country; a search for adventure, a willingness to fight and a will to win; a desire to sei"ve our com­munity, our schools, our nation." 



LOURDES 
(Continued from page 1) 
Feb. 18. Address: Lourdes, Notre Danie, Indiaua.~-~ — PAPAL PRAYER: During 'the cen­tenar)' of the Marian apparitions a partial indulgence of three years can be gained by recitation of the following prayer composed by His Holiness, 
Pope Pius XII: 
SPECIAL PRAYER TO OUR LADY OF LOURDES Heeding your voice, O Ininiaculate Vir­gin of Lourdes, \vc hasten to your feet at 

-f 
the humble grotto where you deigned to appear to show the way of prayer and penitence to those astray, and to dispense i to the stricken the graces and wonders of your unsurpassed kindness. 
Receive, O Merciful Queen, the praise and supplications which peoples and na­tions, oppressed by bitterness and anxiety, trustfully raise to you. 
O fair vision of paradise, banish the 

darkness of error from our minds with the light of faith! O Mystical Rose, relieve crushed souls with the heavenly fragrance ..of._hope!_.0-inexhaustible-snurre..of healing waters, reWve barren hearts with the flow 
of divine love! 
Grant that all of us, your sons and daughters, comforted by you in our sor­rows, protected in our danger and aided in our struggles, may love and ser\-e your gentle Jesus, and merit eternal happiness near your heavenly throne. 
* * * ' 
Our Lady of Lourdes, Pray for us. 

 CLASS  REUNIONS  JUNE  6-7-8  
Ilobre Darns  Library  Entered as Second Class matterOctober 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912.­ ]  
Notre  Dame,  Indiana  

Return postage guaranteed 




