The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 

g|}uiimus 
MAY, 1969 

SACRED HEART Retouching an Old Face 
before 
during 
after 

Vol. 47 MAY 1969 No. 3 
James D. Cooney, Executive Secretary Alumni Association John P. Thurin '59, Editor Tom Sullivan '66, Managing Editor Meg Zwers, Assistant Editor Bill Mitchell '71, Mike McCauley '69, John McDermott '70, 
Editorial Assistants 
M. Bruce Harlan '49, Chief Photographer 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS — Richard A. Rosenthal '54, Honorary President; Leonard H. Skoglund '3S, President; Edward G. Cantwell '24, Vice-President; Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr. '54, Vice-Presi­dent; John J. Reidy "27, Vice-President; James D. Cooney '59, Executive Secretary. 
DIRECTORS TO 1970—Edward G. Cantwll '24 (Public Relations and Development) 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204; Edward B. Fitz­patrick Jr. '54 (Student Affairs) 5 The Maples, Roslyn Estates, NY 11576; John J. Reidy '27 (Academic Affairs) 1850 Edgewater Dr., Lakewood, Ohio 44107; Leonard H. Skoglund "38 (Athletic, Senate Relations) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange Park, 111. 60525. 
DIRECTORS TO 1971—W. Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124; Walter M. Langford '30, 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617; Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Texas 77002; Francis J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. 
DIRECTORS TO 1972—Robert A. Erkins '47, Box 546, Buhl, Id.; John 
T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo.; Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Building, Pompano Beach, Fla.; Robert L. McGoldrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn.; Leonard H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4th St, Bridgeport, Pa. 
1968 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published eight times a year by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

Three-

m. HE triumphant music of the Palm Sunday liturgy marked the comple­tion of the renovation of 98-year-old Sacred Heart Church. Convinced that Indiana Gothic could "read through that ti-adition into the new" the mem­bers of the planning committee were detei-mined that the "sensitive things be presei-ved." It is apparent how well they succeeded. 
Costing approximately $200,000, the work has advanced in three phases. The first phase, begun three years ago, provided for a complete tuck-pointing of the exterior. Two years ago in June, the second phase began, painting the interior, including the re­touching of all murals. The third phase started right at the bottom. 
on the Campus combines traditional Gothic beauty with accommodation to the neiv 

Phase Renovation 
New three-quarter-inch plywood was laid on top of the old floor. An acoustical carpet of gold intenvoven with black, similar to the indoor-out­door type covers the entire church. The wainscot and other woodwork have been refinished. New pews extend down the central section of the church while black removable chairs fill the side sections. A new heating system was installed and electrical rewiring. 
It is Brother James Doi'son CSC who can tell the fine details of the entire project. Ho points out that the renovation was not a con­struction project but an attempt to correct certain physical defects of the building and its furnishings. Selec­tion was the key. While the main altar of the Lady Chapel remains intact the two side altars at its en­trance have been removed. Confes­sionals have disappeared to be re­placed by 10 removable acoustical rooms. The familiar tabernacle tower remains in its honored place on the main altar. 
If certain "old" things are not im­mediately apparent there is a reason. The former high pulpit has been made into tvvo. Six old pew backs and the walnut steps make up the surface of the new altar of sacrifice. Part of the communion rail now re-rails the stair­well going down to the crypt and the rest will be used for an altar in the Lady Chapel. In fact everything but the new pews is old! 
liturgy. 

Cotnptete 
Versatility and accommodation to the new liturgy are apparent. By extending the altar several feet for­ward and by increased seating space behind it, opportunity for varying size crowds to really participate is made possible. 
There is cne person, however, who came all the way from Niles, 111., re­cently to put his approval on all this renovation, Brother Boniface CSC, sacristan of Sacred Heai-t since 1926. When the workmen were tearing up the old carpet they found a "docu­ment" which read, "Pray for us when you find this. We will pi-obably be gone." The page was dated Feb. 18, 1938, and signed, Brother Patrick CSC and Brother Boniface. 
HayeS'Healy 

Dedicated 

R OBERT S. MCNAMARA, president of 
the World Bank and former Secretary 
of Defense, was the principal speaker 
at the May 1 dedication of the Hayes-
Healy Center for graduate business 
education. 

The $1 million huilding is the gift 
of Mr. and Mrs. John F. Healy '30, 
owners of the Chicago travel agency, 
Vanderbilt Better Tours. 

The dedication events began with a 10 a.m. Mass in Sacred Heart Church celebi-ated by Father Hes-burgh. Preaching at the Mass was Rev. W. Seavey Joyce SJ, president of Boston College and foi-mer dean of its College of Business Administi-ation. 
Speakers at the luncheon honoring Mr. and Mrs. Healy were Jerome J. Claeys, president, the Executive Club, John T. Ryan, chairman of the board of Mine Safety Appliances Co., Dean Thomas T. Murphy of the ND College of Business Administration, and Father Hesburgh. The luncheon was followed by an academic convocation addressed by McNamara. 
The Hayes-Healy Center, situated north of the Edward N. Hurley Col­lege of Business Administration, con­tains classrooms, laboi-atoi-y and of­fice facilities for ND's two-year-old Master of Business Administration program. 
The Healy gift also established an undergi-aduate travel management program administered by the depart­ment of marketing. The progi'am in­cludes broad education in the arts and sciences, a business management core, a travel management concentration, 
and a two-year internship ti-avel industry. 

 in the 
Hayes-Healy Center. 

Authors Plimpton and Barth spoke on contemporary literature while blade' 

Campus Hosts hiterarm 
UNDERGRADUATE student culture pro­duced three major academic events in the past two months which brought a wide variety of national figures to the campus. The Third Annual Soph­omore National Literary Festival brought several noted authors to the campus to discuss their woi-k and the state of literature in America today. The Student Union Academic Com­mission's Black Power Conference highlighted a burning, contemporaiy issue by bringing such controversial figures as Adam Clayton Powell and Dick Gregory to Noti-e Dame. Run­ning concurrently with the Black Power Conference was the Afro-American Society's Festival on the Black Arts, which presented a wide aiTay of black drama, literature, cin­ema, and gi-aphic art. 
Harold Hayes, editor-in-chief of Esquire magazine, came to ND to open the third annual Sophomore Literary Festival. Completely student orga­nized and financed, the week-long fes­tival was teiTned "an outstanding suc­cess" by its chairman, James Metzger. 

Highlighting the festival was George Plimpton, the man-about-the­world spoi-tswriter. Speaking to a near capacity crowd of 2,000, the sometime escort of Jacqueline Ken­nedy, Ava Gardner, and Jane Fonda, gave the audience what he described as "a sense of what it's like to be part of a team, of the mystique, ritual, frights, and fears of the game." 
Other featured speakers included Black author, Le Roi Jones; comic writer, Peter Devries; novelist, Daniel Stem; screen writer, Sydney Carroll; and the widely acclaimed author of A Separate Peace, John Knowles. 
Closing out the festival with a 90­minute reading from his latest work. Lost in the Funhouse, John Barth described the novel as something that is meant to be spoken. He envisions that "in the future the novel will 
leaders Gregory (top), Powell and Fanner treated contemporary problems. 

Festival^ Btaek Forum 
eventually become a tape," The Black Power Conference was highlighted by the appearances of James Parmer, Adam Clayton Powell, Dick Gregory, Andrew Hatcher, and Shirley Chisolm The Student Union Academic Commission started the black aware­ness period rolling when New York Congressman Adam Clayton Powell keynoted the Black Power Confer­ence at Stepan Center on March 9. Defeated presidential candidate, Dick Gregory, debated former JPK press secretary, Andrew Hatcher, in the Black Power Conference's second event. 
Shirley Chisolm, Negro Congress­woman from the Bedford-Stuyve­sant district of New York City, closed the week-long SUAC Confer­ence on Black Power with an anal­ysis of the social pi'ograms now in eifect in the ghetto and the long-range needs of black people to reach true equality in America. 
Supplementing SUAC's politically oriented conference and delving deeper into the study of the "con­temporai-y Black Man in America" was Notre Dame's historic first an­nual Black Arts Festival. Co-spon­sored by the Afro-American Society and the Civil Eights Commission of the Student Government, the festival 
•was divided into three phases: The Black Film, The Black Drama, and the Black Culture in Litei-ature and Fine Arts. 
Featured speakers throughout the exciting and interest-filled week in­cluded such noted black wi-iters and spokesmen as poet Eoy Hill of Kansas State University; Lerone Bennett, editor of Ebony magazine; Northwestern University activist Jeff Donaldson; writer David Llor­ens; and actress Val Gray. 
Trustees Approve SLC Resotutiowts 
M. HE Executive Committee of the University Board of Trustees, at its regular winter meeting, amended and approved resolutions recently passed by the Student Life Council concern­ing hall life and student autonomy. 
In a^.move directed toward placing more responsibility in the hands of the student community the committee es­tablished a tripartite Hall Life Board, consisting of two administrators, two students, and one faculty member, to implement resolutions made by the SLC. In addition, the trustees cre­ated individual residence haU govern­ments consisting of a president, a legislative hall council, and a hall judicial board. 
Eesolutions approved include an ex­tension of weekend visitation priv­ileges, a revision of the University policy regarding the use of alcoholic beverages on Campus, and a state­ment of the role of the rector and the responsibility of the student within the residence hall. 
Closely reg:ulated visitation priv­ileges for women will be extended from the current 11 weekends a year to all weekends on an experimental basis. The experimental period, which is subject to review by the trustees following the fall semester next year, will begin in each hall when the SLC, through the Hall Life Board, has de­termined that the hall has complied with the organizational requirements. Another resolution approved prohibits the buying or selling of alcoholic bev­erages on Campus and the presence of such beverages in all public places on Campus. It reminds students of the Indiana state law regarding the possession of such beverages by mi­nors as illegal. 
The resolutions passed were re­manded to the Board by University President Father Hesburgh after the 24-member Student Life Council had made the i'ecommendations in a March 3 meeting. The tripartite SLC, con­sisting of an equal number of stu­dents, faculty and administrators, is empowered to legislate on all matters relating to student life. 

Cahill Succeeds Jones 
01! C.MIILL '34 has been ap|)ointed business manager of athletics suc­ceeding Herb Jones who held the posi­tion from 1!141 until his death March 
G. During that same :^S-year i)eriod Cahill served as ticket manager and assistant business managei-. Don Bouifard '0(5, his assistant for the past three years, will take over the ticket-managing job. 
A native of Dixon, 111., Cahill, be­fore enrolling as an XD student in 1030, spent a coui)lc of years as secre­tary to University registrars. In his final semester he joined the athletic department, first as secretary to Elmer Layden and then as ticket manager to succeed Herb Jones. Dur­ing WW II he served three years in the Xa^T. a year and a half of it as Lt. Commander in the Southwest Pa­cific. After his discharge lie returned to his duties in the athletic depart­ment. In 19.57 a note in the .l/((.s­I:cf/oii Chroiiicle stated tliat "since assuming his present position Cahill has had over 9,000,00(1 tickets pass through his liands in one of the big­gest mail-Older businesses in the mid­west." Today that count would look like nothing to Bob! He will have much valuable exjierience to jiass on to the members of the College Athletic Business Managers .-issoc., who have just elected him their vice-jiresident. 
Bouffard, from Ashtabula, Ohio, was student managei- around XD for four years. In 19(!.5 lie becanio head football manager. The day after graduation he officially joined the XD statr. X'o doubt Don will be jjutting to good use his accountancy major in the hectic days of football ticket allot­ment soon to descend on his office. 
Cahill Bouffard 

Notre Dame and St. Mary'a sltulents exprcHx then-concern over the 

StMgdent Concern Over 
Xll E STORY of Biafra's fight for in­
deiiendonce has turned into one of tlie most horrendous number games in the history of the world. Last sum­mer the number 20,000 indicated how many Biafrans were dying from pro­tein starvation daily. Now the rate continues at 700-1000 a day. Total lives lost in the Xigeria-Biafva strug­gle exceeds four million, placing the African civil war in the top five of the costliest death rate wars in the world's history. The present airlift relief program of 400 tons of food daily falls far short of the needed 3,000 tons. 
Jlax Wesley and Jleaux Considine (XD and St. JIary's) are leading a gi-oup of students who are aiming to add up dilferent sorts of numbers. In tlie fall they collected $900 from stu­dents and alumni and $G00 from Stu­dent Government for relief supplies. They have written to IJJO university and college student body presidents attempting to stimulate concern. In a room-to-room petition of ND dorms well over 2,000 signatures were gatii­ered protesting the tactics of the war. Easter vacation began with more than 1,300 X'^D students giving up an eve­ning meal for Biafran relief. 
Plans for constructive action in­clude an attemjit to arouse the Na­tional Student Association to sponsor a teach-in jirogram on college cam­
liUijhl of their fellow men. 

tiiafra 
puses across the country. A i)olitical leader is being sought, and Senators Kennedy and JIcGovern have both been named as jjossibilities. 
On the local scene a bid for finan­cial backing for committee action will be made in a fitting way. A Biafran cultural dance group from Chicago has been invited to ])erfonn in the main quad. The i)erformances will be followed by a teach-in and a public forum held on Campus. 
Dr. Peter Walshe, of the African Studies Program, has agreed to ad­vise the student committee. From his knowledge of the problem the most necessary action ajipears to be politi­cal pressure on all powers concerned. 
COI.U3IN 


Snowing ND Spofts Fans 
by Richard W, Confcd'n Assist. Direcfor of °ubUc fn/ormo.'ion 

ILL ETIIKUTOX, the voice of A'otre Dame sports over AVNDU radio and television, was dispensing the play­by-play in the season's first Xotre Dame hockey telecast. 
"It's a high pass jiast Bonk!" shouted Etherton as the puck flew virtually the length of the rink, pass­ing under the chin of a Xotre Dame wing. 
"Er . , . Bill," said his color man, "I think that's icing the puck. Bill. (The linesman blows his whistle) "Yes . . . icing the puck." 
Etherton could be forgiven. A new varsity sport had arrived in South Bend, and WNDU's sjiorts announcer was no more befudilled than the aver­age Northern Indiana fan, to whom "blue line" meant the police depart­ment and "crease" was something you tried to |)reserve in your pants. 
Despite some local exposure as a club sport at Notre Dame and a grow­ing audience on national television, ice hockey and the i)eoi)le who follow it closely are still confined to only a part of North America — primarily Colorado, Minnesota, North Dakota, Michigan's U])per Peninsula, New England and Canada. 
Etherton and some 22,GO0 other persons who saw Notre Dame skato at home got an education this year —and they enjoyed it. While the Athletic-Convocation Center's Field-house ice facility never quite sold out, attendance dipped below 1,000 only twice, despite the fact that the crowd often resembled a huge seminar as they dipped into their program's rules exegesis every time the action stop|)ed. 
Jly wife probably knows more hockey than most of Notre Dame's athletic department, but that's be­cause she conies from the same place as the University's hockey coach, Charles "Lefty" Smith — South St. Paul high school, a suburban Twin Cities school which perennially ends up ill Minnesota's state tournament. Assisting Lefty is another Minne­sotan, Tim O'Neill. 
This year's team finished the season with a 1(5-8-3 record and a promising future. Only two seniors were among the 17 who received monograms, and the club's offensive standouts—centers Phil Wittliff (Port Huron, Mich.) and Kevin Hoene (Duluth, Minn.)— will be back next year. 
Returning to the nets will be fresli­niaii goalie Dick Tomasoni from Min­nesota's Iron Range. Tomasoni aver­aged 33 saves a game over the last season, giving up an average of 4^i goals a game. The fact that he made S23 saves testifies to the team's weak­ness—defensemen—and that is where Notre Dame's recruiting must pick up the slack. 
Ironically, Notre Dame just might get one of the nation's best high school defensemen—Henry Boucha— but plans are to convert him into a wing because of his scoring punch. Boucha is a Cherokee Indian about whom legendary tales are told by his neighbors in Warroad, a ilinnesota hamlet about five miles south of Canada where skates are baby shower gifts. The best defensemen lie north of the border, however, and Notre Dame will probably have to increase its immigration rate (only one Cana­dian lettered last season) if it is going to improve on its record. Aside from Wisconsin, which beat the Irish twice, this year's toughest competition came from members of the Jliiinesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, against whom Lefty's sextet posted a 5-3-1 record. Next year, Colorado of the established and prestigious West­ern Collegiate Hockey League, as well as Army and Dartmouth from the ex­perienced Northeast, is on the sched­ule . . . and that's the big leagues. 
Speaking of leagues, college hockey is growing fast and new combinations are bound to be formed. As a national network of intercollegiate competition forms, interest in Notre Dame hockey will increase as natural rivalries such as Michigan State are added. The reason why hockey is enjoying soaring jiopularity, even in sections of the country which have never seen nat­ural ice, is simple: No other sport can match it for speed and sustained action. It's enough to make a baseball owner cry. 
And, sports fans, if you want to know what "icing the puck," "blue line," and "crease" mean, write Sports Infonnation. 


TMBto StudyDraft and 

Civil 

UNIVERSITY President Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh received executive ap­pointments from President Richard 
M. Nixon recently. He is slated to chair the U.S. Civil Eights Commis­sion and sit on a newly foimed com­mission charged wtili the development of a plan for eliminating the draft in favor of an all-volunteer aimed force. President Nixon made the two an­nouncements from the White House during the month of March. 
Father Hesburgh has been a mem­ber of the U.S. Civil Rights Commis­sion since its creation in 1957. He is the second chaii-man of the Commis­sion, taking the helm from Dr. John Hannah, President of Michigan State University and now Director of the Agency for International Develop­ment. 
President Nixon's appointment of Father Hesburgh to the Draft Com­mission involves the Notre Dame Pi-esident in an area of great con­cern to the nation. The Commission will study the problems involved with the Selective Service System and an all-volunteer Army and issue a re­port to President Nixon in November of 1969. Nixon said that he had in­structed the Department of Defense and other federal agencies to support this study and provide the needed in­formation and assistance as a matter of high priority. 
Father Hesburgh 

Whitmore pulls down a rebound as Jones and Amzen look on. 



Another 

THIS is a tough way to have it end." Coach Johnny Dee summed np a good season after the Fighting Irish basketball team dropped a 63-60 deci­sion to Miami of Ohio in the first-, round of the NCAA Mideast Regional. • The hoopsters closed out the season with a 20-7 record and some impres­sive statistics but as Dee put it, "They never had a chance to jell. Somebody was always out." 
High scorer on the squad was Aus­tin Carr with a 23.1 average per game. Close behind were stalwarts captain Bob Amzen and senior center Bob Whitmore with identical 17.9 av­erages. 

At the recent awards banquet Am­zen received the George Keogan Award for the second time as the team's most valuable player. Fellow senior Dwight Murphy was cited for his defensive excellence and presented the Elmer Ripley Award, junior guard Mike O'Connell, the Clem Crowe Award for free-throw proficiency (82 percent), and senior Dan Quinn, the John Jordan Award for dedication to the game. Super-soph Austin Carr was 

Page for 

named captain of the 1969-70 Fight­ing Irish the second time in three years that the team elected a junior-to-be its captain. 
The Irish hockey team wound up its first varsity season with a 16-8-3 record. Phil Wittliff, a former prep all-America, won the scoring cham­pionship with 47 points on 31 goals and 16 assists and was named captain of next year's squad. Wittliff won the scoring title by a single point by sur­passing freshman winger Kevin Hoene with a 16-point flurry in the last four games. 
Freshman goalie Dick Tomasoni, who started all but one of ND's 27 games and averaged 32.9 saves per game, was named most valuable player. Winger Jim Cordes, was named most improved player and fin­ished the season with 26 points to tie for fourth place in team scoring. 
Closing out the indoor season with a 2-0 mark in dual meet competition the Irish trackmen placed second in the Central Collegiate Conference Meet and fourth in the IC4A Meet. Outstanding on the squad was BUI 

Hockey and track moved into the new ACC this season. 

the Record Books 
Hurd who took first place in every event he entered save for the NCAA 60-yard dash. 
Anchored by half-miler Rick Wol­hunter the two-mile relay team cap­tui-ed fii-st place in the Western Mich­igan Eelays and the K of C Meet in New York, and second place in the NCAA championships in Detroit. Wol­hunter also set a new ND record in the 600-yard run. 
Compiling a 16-1 record in dual meet competition the Irish fencers took second place in the Great Lakes Fencing Championships. Senior Bob Babineau was the season's leading foilsman with a 28-4 mark. In saber competition junior Roger Holzgrafe posted a 29-4 record and senior Joe DePietro was tops in the epee class with a 25-6 showing. Mike DeCicco's charges also garnered a sixth place finish in the NCAA tournament. 
In wrestling ND ended the season with an 8-2-1 record in dual meet competition. Highlighting the season was a first place finish in the Roches­ter Invitational Meet and a first and second place individual showing in the Wheaton Invitational. 
Sophomore Pat Mudron won the heavyweight championship in the 4-1 wrestling tournament and posted a season record of 15-1-1. In the 177-lb. class Bill Hasbrook was decisioned in the first round of the 4-1 tournament but closed out the season with a 10-4-1 mark. 
The ND aquamen polished off their season with a pleasing come-from-be­hind win in the Motor City Invita­tional Meet at Detroit. The Irish took the final three events of the competi­tion to total thirty points and a 163­156 marg^in over mnner-up Oakland. 
The team posted a 6-6 mark in dual meet competition but was bothered much of the season with back and shoulder trouble. Outstanding per­foi-mers for the season wei"e captain John May in the free-style, Jim Cooney in the short sprint, and John Cox in diving. Freshman Frank Fahey, who captured first place in the Motor City Meet in the 200-yard but­terfly and fourth in the 1,650 yard free-style, has been outstanding all season long in the butterfly. 
BRIEFS 

Ammexatimmf 
The University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College may soon be an­nexed to South Bend if Mayor Lloyd Allen and city administration officials have their way. Father Hesburgh, however, in a public statement voiced the misgivingfs of the University Board of Trustees to the plan. "It was disappointing to be faced with uni­lateral action on the part of the city before the advantages and disadvan­tages, both to the city and the Uni­versity, could be thoroughly discussed by both parties," commented Father Hesburgh. 

Grmmt 
A $250,000 grant from The Aimen­berg School of Communications of Philadelphia has been received by the University. Walter H. Aimenberg, president of the communications school and of Triangle Publications, Inc., has earmarked the grant "for support of communications in the per­forming arts area".at Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh voiced his apprecia­tion to Mr. Annenberg who has re­cently been appointed Ambassador to Great Britain. 

Bartett App9imimd 
The Rev. Ernest Bartell, C.S.C, chairman of the department of eco­nomics, has been appointed associate director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society at the University. 
Upon his appointment. Father Bar-tell had this to say about the center: "It is our hope that the center will be instrumental in helping to develop both educational and research pro­grams in poverty and urban affairs in which the students will have a part." 

KofC 
Council 1477 of the Km'ghts of Columbus dedicated its new Council Home on Campus April 26. Cere­monies included a dedication mass, luncheon, blessing and open house. 
Now in its 59th year at ND, the Council dedicated its new facility to Eli J. Shaheen, a long-time trustee and treasurer of the building corpora­tion. 
THOS E OP YOU who have read this are moments when we would like to the World Series, ijt will be switched 
piece over the years and who have crawl back into our basement and to Shea Stadium, and if it can't be 
perhaps enjoyed my chagrin in the never complain about our quarters played at Shea Stadium for the same 
basement quarters we occupied for 29 again! reason, then it will be switched to 
years would normally expect a lead The changes we made in 1968 did Hichie Stadium at West Point. If all 
paragraph this year of exultation. alleviate somewhat the alumni pres­these things happen, then I am sure 
However, as we sit here writing this sure for tickets. Keferring to the dia­that all of you can come to visit us at 
in our delightful new comer oflSce, a gram you can see that the allocation the funny farm. At any rate, there 
western and southern exposure, a lot reduced the visiting team maximum will again be no public sale for our 
of the luster is missing. Most of you to 5,000 tickets and the parents to game with Army in Yankee Stadium 
know by now that just a month ago, 3,000. The additional 2,500 tickets and we will restrict alumni sale to 
as this is written. Herb Jones, our be­picked up that way were added to the those who reside in the Eastern half 
loved Business Manager of Athletics alimini allocation. It is absolutely im­of the United States—^roughly. East 
of the Mississippi. We want to make 

since 1940, and more than that to this possible for us to take any further writer—a, coUeagnie, adviser and close steps along these lines unless we elim­it clear, however, that any contribut­
inate the parents completely. Since ing alumnus who wishes to make afriend for 40 years—passed on. The they are an integi-al part of the Notre personal trip to this game in New entire Athletic Department feels his Dame family we doubt if that would York who does not receive an appli­absence keenly. But Herb combined a be feasible. Therefore, we must go cation should write to the Football cool head with a sense of humor and again this year with a maximum of Ticket Committee and enclose his I am sure he wouldn't mind if we 12,500 tickets available to contribut­check for $14.50 for two tickets to tried to write this article in the same ing alumni; and for the major games this game. We implore you not to use way we did in the past. 
this will as usual be inadequate. this means luless you desire to use Our ofiBce in the new Athletic and the tickets personally. 
Convocation Center is a beautiful one. 1969 PROSPECTS: With a truly Our supply of tickets for Tulane in After 29 years in the Black Hole popular line-up of home games this 


Exeedrin Headache No. 1900 
by ROBERT CAHILL '34, Business Manager of Athletics 
ED. NOTE: Bob Cahill was recently named Biisiness Manager succeeding the late Herb Jones, Don Bouffard '66, his assistant for tlie past three years, was named Ticket Manager. Story in this issue. 
of Breen-Phillips Basement, where we year it is already obvious there can the Sugar Bowl at New Orleans (a enjoyed a windowless office criss­be no public sale for Northwestern, nig^t game), for Pittsburgh at Pitts­crossed by steam pipes, we were ter­Michigan State or Southern Califor­burgh, and for Georgia Tech at At­ribly distracted for the first month nia. This means that again we must lanta (also a night gfame) should be or so. One of our windows overlooks eliminate many of our good friends adequate to take care of nearly all Juniper Eoad between this building among nonalumni, nor can we care the requests we will receive. and the stadiiun and we were amazed for any group sales for these games. We would like to reiterate that be­to see that the automobiles passing by Our restriction of the visiting team fore you criticize the distribution pol­no longer had mnning boards! The to 5,000 tickets when it plays at Notre icy you keep in mind that we have first few days the silence was un­Dame has caught up with us for our had to eliminate gradually many, 
canny. We couldn't figure out what g:ame at Lafayette September 27. many of our followers among non­was wrong until we realized we missed Notre Dame will receive only 5,000 alumni who have supported us for the old steam pipes. It got so bad that tickets down there and for that rea­years. Because of the stringency of 
we had to hire a man to come in for son, there will be no public sale for our situation and the need to take 
an hour or so in the morning just to Purdue at Lafayette. care of our Notre Dame family, we hiss. We were advised later by Mrs. 
have disappointed and probably alien­Cahill that she would have gladly done A Rirsr at Yankee Stadium will prove ated millions of friends who have fol­it gratis. But now that we are es­to be a real headache. If it can't be lowed us for years. 
tablished and used to the luxury, we played in Yankee Stadium because of Once again we also ask that you find that a new office and new sur­be sure to read carefully all of the roundings don't do a thing to solve information contained on the ticket the football ticket problems that we 1969 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE order forms and the reprint of this have had for so many years. 
article which will accompany your 
Sept. 20 NORTHWESTERN 

Luxury, too, has its penalties. In ticket applications. We remind you, 
Sept. 27 Purdue at Lafayette 

addition to the annual woes of foot­too, that in order to be seated with 
Oct. 4 MICHIGAN STATE 

ball, we now have to worry about a a frigid or classmate you must send 
Oct. 11 Army at New York Oty 

seating capacity of nearly 12,000 for the orders together in the same enve­
Oct. 18 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 

12 or 15 annual basketball games; lope. We amply cannot seat you to­
Oct. 25 Tulane at New Orleans 

4,000 hockey seats for 16 or more gether unless you follow this proce­
home matches; PLUS tickets for (Night) dure. The tremendous volume of mail 
every event in this beautiful new Nov. 1 NAVY makes it impossible and furthermore, building, whether it be the Ice Ca-Nov. 8 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh in fairness to all alumni, we must pades, Eingling Brothers, the Chi­Nov. 15 Georgia Tech at Atlanta follow the assignment-by-date-received cago Symphony, or you name it. There Nov. 22 AIR FORCE ACADEMY procedure. So once more we list for 
eMTca-4 

S -6 
emh 
tm-i 
vut-n 
aaeA4 

1969 TICKET AllOTMENT 
yon the salient points in our Alumni APPLICATIONS ON HAND AT 
Advance Sale: THAT POINT ARE THOROUGHLY Advance Sale Procedure. 1. Contribu­SHUFFLED, DRAWN BY LOT tors to the 26th Annual Alumni Fund AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE in 1968, religious and honorary de­NUMBER TO ESTABLISH THE gree holders plus the June Class of ORDER OF SEAT ASSIGNMENT 1969 are eligible for Advance Sale FOR EACH GAME. As many as order forms for the 1969 football 6,000 orders for each of the more season. A contribution recorded after popular games may arrive for Jan. 1, 1969, affords ticket priority processing June 20 (accounting for for 1970 season but NOT for 1969. 12,000 tickets). Obviously even a 
2. Alumni Advance Sale opens first-day oi'der could be on the 50­
June 20. Advance Sale forms are yard line or beyond the goal line, de­limited to TWO tickets per game, are pending on the luck of the draw. not transferable and will be honored 
This is the answer to the Alumnus' until July 15, or until tlie ticket sup­question as to why, although he or­
ply is exhausted, whichever occurs dered for all games on the very first first. Any order arriving after that day, he received fine seats for ona date, regardless of category, will re­£;ame and poor ones for another, or 
ceive General Use treatment. More­fine or poor seats for all—or none for over, an order filed before July 15 is some games! not guaranteed a preferred location (see Point 4 below). 
A FTER Monogram and Season Ticket 
3. The Alumni Advance Sale order ordei's (more about Season Tickets form is desigrnated as such in bold below) are satisfied, ONLY 4,000 type on its face for ready identifica­TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE IN tion. Eligible Alumni should receive ND STADIUM BETWEEN THE these before June 20. If you have not GOAL AND 50-YARD LINE FOR —and you're certain of your eligi­ALUMNI. Hence, for the more popu­bility—^notify the Ticket Manager at lar games it is readily seen how a once. Our envelopes are addressed by first-day order could fare poorly. An tlie Alumni Association but filled and Alummis who files his order even two mailed by the Ticket Office. Omissions or three days after June 20 can ex­are usually caused by address changes. pect nothing but seats behind the So, if your address differs from that north goal, or no seats at all (see used for this issue of the ALUMNUS, diagram). forward that change at once to the 
General Sale: 5. If tickets remain 
Alumni Office. 
for general sale for any games. Gen­
4. Seats are allotted in accordance eral Use ticket applications will be 
with date received, modified only as mailed annually to ALL Alumni the follows: ORDERS ARRIVING BE­latter part of July, prior to the Aug. FORE OPENING DAY (JUNE 20) 1 opening of public sale. It is entirely ARE INTEGRATED WITH THOSE possible in 1969 that Advance Sale RECEIVED JUNE 20. AT CLOSE described above could claim our en­OP BUSINESS JUNE 20, ALL tire ticket supply. The alternatives will definitely be established by July 
15. General Use forms are trans­ferable and the contributing Alumnus who had already used his Advance Sale form for two tickets may place additional orders via the general form. These General Use forms carry no locational preferences as all such orders are filled after Advance Sale purchases. 
Alumni Clubs. 6. Alumni Clubs hop­ing for a block of tickets for an ex­cursion must file a request with the Ticket Manager BEFORE JUNE 20. As already indicated. Northwestern, Fnrdn^ Michigan State and Southern California will not be open to such requests. Final action on block orders for other games eauHot be taken. untU individuid sales close July 15 and then only if sufficient tickets remain. 
However, a tentative reservation will be made and an Almnni Club will be given preference in ease of short sup­ply. AS TO SEAT LOCATIONS FOR GROUPS, THE FOLLOWING IS POSITIVE: BLOCK ORDERS ARE FILLED FROM SEATS RE­MAINING AFTER ALL INDIVID­UAL ORDERS HAVE BEEN AS­SIGNED. THIS PERMITS ONLY END ZONE SEATS, INVARIABLY. 
7. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "dioice location" for raffle or fond-nusing awards. With our present critical situation this could be accomplished only if a contributing Alumnus were to pur­chase the tickets in his name for whatever fund-raising gimmick the Club has in mind. The location of seats so purchased will be exactly in accordance with the date this order is received. We don't feel we can guarantee a choice location for a raffle at the expense of the individual Alumnus. 
The Season Ticket Situation. For the THIRD year in a row our Season Ticket sale has been frozen at 1966 figures. Again, any Season Tickets not renewed will be used to help relieve the pressure from contribut­ing Alwnni on an individual game basis. They will not be offered again for sale as Season Tickets unless and until our stadium capacity is ex­panded. 
As we undertake our twenty-ninth year as Ticket Manager for the Uni­versity of Notre Dame^ we have real appreciation for all of you who have been so understanding over many years of stress and strain. It is not an easy job but it would be a lot tougher if you didn't display such awareness of our problems and a willingness to go along with our judg­ment. You are a G-R-R-A-A-N-N-D G-R-R-O-O-U-UP! 

CLASSES 
... ^•"-V " . 

Chuck Lennon (right) discusses the model neighborhood with his cohorts. 

Community With a Capital ^X 99 
tiusT tell the rector your needs. It hardly seems necessary for you to go into town." Many an ND student in the good old days received such a reply when he presented his case for a "day away." And, sad to say, many of the local residents approved that policy. Chuck Lennon '61 per­sonifies a new spirit in town-univer­sity relations. Mayor Lloyd M. Allen recently appointed Lennon Director of the Mode] Neighborhood Program for South Bend. He will have one year and ?167,000 to organize a pro­posal for needed improvements in the 
W. Washington area of the city. After the planning work is done an application will be formulated for additional federal funds to execute the plans. South Bend thus joins 147 cities in the country to qualify for the Housing and Urban Development 
(HUD) aid. After receiving his undergraduate degree Lennon stayed on to earn his master's in guidance and counseling. Not only Notre Dame but also South Bend atti-acted him, and he and wife Joan now reside at 1613 N. 29th, in the city. His ties with the University include doctorate work, instmctor of the Peace Corps Training Program on Campus, assistant baseball coach for five seasons and assistant basket­ball coach for three. 
His city involvement began in November of 1967 when he became executive director of the Mental Health Association. This was work that strongly appealed to Chuck but Mayor Allen convinced him that the HUD progi-am would only widen his sphere of influence. "You will be able to work with people not for them," argued the mayor. 
Lennon is finding that to be very true, 14,000 that's a lot of people. And he loves it! From his past ex­perience as vice-president of the Catholic Inter-Racial Council, his work at the Peter Claver Home, and with the Blackstone Bangers he believes he is free enough of the "downtown" attitudes to work with real respect for the people of the neighborhood. He has initiated a Model Neighborhood Interim Plan­ning Committee to consider top priority needs in the eight areas of health, housing, education, welfare, transportation, delinquency and crime, recreation and culture, and employment. 

He isn't cutting any ties with Notre Dame in this project. Faculty members and graduates are being called in for advice in particular areas. Perhaps this is a very local answer to the challenge of Notre Dame: Insight's last issue—can the cities hope for help from the "ivy" towers? 
Fr. Heston Appointed to Vatican Post 
BEV. EDWARD L. HESTON CSC has been named secretaiy of the Vatican Congregation for Religious. In his new position Father Heston will ba responsible for the business of reli­gious congregations throughout the world. Beginning his priestly career as a professor of philosophy at Notre Dame in 1936 Father Heston has since spent many years in Rome filling varied positions in the Curia. As procurator general of the Congrega­tion of the Holy Cross he has served as liaison for the Community with the Vatican. 
Since Vatican II when he was ap­pointed the council's English language press spokesman to the world Father Heston has been consistently involved in press relations for the Catholic Church, recently in charge of the weekly English language edition of the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore Romano. He also handled press rela­tions for the Pope on the papal trips to both India and South America. 
Bom in South Bend Sept. 9, 1907, Father Heston began his studies for the priesthood at Holy Cross Sem­inary. He studied at ND and at the Gregorian University, Rome. He sei-ved in Rome from 1938 to 1940 and from 1942 to 1947 was on the staif of the Apostolic Delegation in Washington. He became the Holy Cross Congregation's procurator in Rome in 1950. He is the author of the book The Holy See at Work. 
Father Heston replaces the Most Rev. Antonio Mauro of Italy, titular Archbishop of Tagaste, who has been promoted to vice-president of the Vat­ican Secretariat for Nonbelievers. 


CLASS NOTES 

'15 GREEN WITH ENVY 
Following is a most interesting letter from Cyril 
T. Birkbeck '24 who lives at 308 S. Edgewood, La Grange, III. 60525 "I thought you would be interested in our 'U-Drive-It' tour of Ireland and our visit to England. We flew by Aer Lingus from O'Hare Aug. 7 ond arrived at Shannon airport the 8th, then by bus to the Intercontinental Hotel, Limerick where we picked up our English Ford. We enjoyed o two-day stay at Limerick including o mediaeval banquet and pageant at Knappogue Castle. Then off through Irish countryside to Killorney and Blarney castle and around the scenic 'Ring of Kerry' to Trolee. From there fo Cork ond Golwoy and then to Belfast. The short trip from Belfast to Dublin was enhanced by a stop at the shrine of Blessed Oliver Plunkett. His head is on display and is in a remarkable state of preservation. Our 'you-drive-it-tour' ended at the Gresham Hotel in Dublin, the only hotel to survive the shelling of the Easter rebellion. 
"Saying good-bye to the Emerald Isle we took off for London where we were met by our daughter, Claire, and driven to her home near Oxford. There we spent a delightful week enjoying our baby grandson and taking trips to Stratford, Oxford, Churchill's birthplace, etc. 
"And the climax, or rather anticlimax. We returned to London spending on exciting week sight-seeing. We were preparing to fly to Spain for two weeks when I suddenly become very ill. 1 was rushed to the London Clinic where I underwent mojor surgery. Following the surgery complications set in and I was hospitalized for three weeks. After two weeks of recuperating ot the London Hotel we took a Pan Am jet back home. 
The following informotion was included from 
o letter from Raymond Hoyer who was on the teaching staff at ND from '24 until "40. Roy received his BS at the U. of Pennsylvania in *13 and did graduate work in social work at Chicago until he came to ND in '24 to complete his Master's. In '40 he became associated with the Community War services. 
Ray informed me that he really had some misfortunes in the spring of '68. "First the shingles got me and for two months I was really miserable. Then May 20 I slipped and fell, fracturing my left hip. After five weeks in St. Joseph's Hosp. I returned to St. Anne's Retirement Home, 1900 Randalia Drive, Ft. Wayne, Ind. 46805 and leorned to walk agoin." 
Congratulations are due to Ray as a charter resident of St. Anne's. He has been very active and has contributed materially fo launching this fine institution. 
Albert A. Kuhte ; 17 Svnsel Ave. la Grange, III. 60525 

'17 "RING OUT YE BELLS" Mary Ruth and Don E. Hilgartner will observe their golden wedding anniversary June 7, by the grace of God and because of publication deadlines, with a special Moss of thanksgiving at Saint Agnes church, II A.M., Sawyer, Mich. All classmotes and friends ore welcome to ottend o reception from 3 to 6 P.M. at their home, 7172 Horseshoe Drive, Forest Springs, Horbert, Mich. A big UND for Texas Bill Crady, the only one to return the post cord for Class news in the current issue of Alumnus. The champion 
globe-trotter of our Class, who novr may be in Hawaii, Japan or the Philippines said he would be bock in time for the alumni reunion in June. His card read as follows: MOVED: Where do you go from the poor Farm? ENGAGED: Yes, ducking all kinds of work; MARRIED: Must be because we have 10 grand­children; two girls and eight demons. RETIRED: Every night after the 10 P.M. news. TRAVEL: Yes, whenever the bank soys "Yes." 
John Urban Riley relaxed during February in Flo., where he met Paul Fogorfy, who now lives the year around in Delray Beach. Charley Bachman and Joe F/ynn both reside in Pompono Beach and pass away the time playing golf. No trouble to make up a foursome with Prep Wells and Pele Redden also living nearby. 
Don E. Hilgarlner 
P.O. Box 75 Horberf, Mich. 49TJ5 

'18 READ THE CHI TRIB7 
My opinion you "foreigners" who don't get the Chi. Trib. and missed reading Edward Prell's 
interesting story on "Mr. Lombard! Goes To Washington." Prell wrote about "Young Dutch"—quote—"Dutch Bergman who was 
George Gipp's roommate at ND and now 
manager of the Robert F. Kennedy Stadium and the National Guard Armory, recalled the 
1943 season, when he was Marshall's cooch. "It was a continual battle with George,' soys Bergman. In exasperation I once said: 
'George, you so-and-so, I don't hove time to coach this team because every night 1 have to prepare my defense against you.' " 
Also sent a copy of Trib. write-up about basketball team to Att'y Joseph T. Riley— becouse this "guy" hates fo lose even ONE football gome. Received a very interesting reply regarding article—a copy of which Riley sent to Peter J. Ronchelti. Pete's another ND man thot is content only with we're No. 1. Con't understand, quote, "How can a team with eight men chosen for pros not be National Champs?" 
Thought that Max C. Kazus would enjoy Riley's letter and forwarded same to Max. Sorry to report Max has been in the hospitol for three weeks. Said he hod something like Call went thru—but is plonning to return to Campus with Mrs. K. in June. Sincerely hope everything goes well for Mox. Colled on Frank 
X. Rydzewski, "Big Frank" showed me a letter from Horry C. Baufan, '17. Quote in part, "Why don't you come down to ND in June? We have lots of fun and meet many of the men thot were in school with us." Harry has been inducted into U. of Dayton's Hall of Fame. William A. "Texas" Grady, '^6. reports—he is getting ready for onnuol ND June visit. Ail-American Water Boy, E. Morris Starrett, writes he hopes to be on Campus this June. Let Morrie tell you about his AAWB honors. He has heard from "Chet" Grant, Front Wallace, "Vic" Shaeler, regarding informotion obout Rockne. 
Edword J. McOsker, PhB. '17. 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, 111. 60121. Apr. 25. Apr. 28, William H. Kelley, LLB. 33 Ocean Ave. Palm Beach Shores, Flo. 33404. May 24, Horry C. Baujan, PhBC. '17. 2069 Rustic Rd. Dayton, O. Moy 28, Oonief E. Hilgartner, Jr. PhB. '17. 
P.O. Box 75. Horbert, Mich. 49115. Wedding Anniversary. 
May 29, March F. Wells, LLB. "15. 1901 E. Taylor St. Bloomington, III. 
This will be our first year, returning to Campus, as o member of the 50-yr. Club. Surprised to leorn thot over 500 names ore listed on this roster. Sincerely hope that you will be there and that we will have as many OS attended lost yeor's Golden Jubilee. Hope you live to be 100 — PEACE. 
George B. Wooge 
3305 Wrighlwood Ave. 
Chicogo, III. 60647 
Fr. Edward Heston 


Congrats 

Antlwny F. Marra '34 received the Reg^inald Heber Smith Award in honor of his "great achievement" with the Criminal Courts Branch of the Legal Aid Society. He has also been appointed as a Judge of the Criminal Courts of the city of New York by Mayor John V. Lindsay. 
Robert E. Palenchar '42 has been elected corporate vice president, per­sonnel, of Swift & Company, Chicago. Previously he was vice president and director of employee relations of the Sunbeam Corporation. 
Frederic C. "Fritz" Shadley '48 has been appointed vice president and general manager of Avco Electronics Division of the Acvo Group. He is the Summa General Chaii-man in Cin­cinnati. 
Louts F. Twardzik '48 was promoted to professor and named chaii^nan of the newly created Department of Park and Recreation Resources at Michigan State University. 
Bernard J, Lavins '51 has been named corporate vice president of manufac­turing for the Shakespeare Company, Columbia, South Carolina. He will be responsible for the operation of the company's seven domestic manufac­turing plants. 
Raymond A. Slyman '52 of Fairfield, Connecticut, has been promoted to re­gional vice president for the Eastern and Canadian regions of Mutual of New York. He has been with MONY since 1955. 
'20 FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH I iust returned from Miami and Fort Lauderdale where private homes ore beautiful and condominiums and hotels ore being built in unbelievable numbers. Ponce deleon's search for a long life in Florida and the flight of the geese to Southern winter homes seem to be in leeping with many thousands of people today. ND has large clubs in Fort Lauderdale and in Greater Miami. I talked with all Florida members of our class listed. Raymond McCabe, engaged in rebuilding machinery in lower NYC, maintains his home connection in Larger mouth, NY and a permanent home in the Miami areo. John J. Ward, known as the "Voice," was publishing the diocesan paper in Pittsburgh for many years. The Bishop of Miami requested that he toke over the diocesan paper in Miami and so the "Voice" is heard throughout Cdtholic papers in Florida. Jomes H. Brenan, a pre-war member of our Class has a home in Pompano Beach. He has lost connection with ND. I ask that the ALUMNUS magazine be sent to him. James O. Cavanough originally success* ful in insurance about Chicago lives in Boca Raton. An insurance man must be an aggressive salesman. Jim is sure about that living in Florida but plans summer trips back to Chicago. He speaks of Charley Bockman being in Fort Lauderdale and that John Balls has in the past attended the NO Fort Lauderdale Club meetings. With fifty years gone by from ND classes, the enthusiasm of the four members in Florida proves Ponce de Leon's idea is the way of life in Florida. 
James H. Ryon 
2470 East Ave., Apt. 314 Rochester. N.Y. 14(570 

'22 GOLDEN + ONE It is a real treat for your Class secretory to receive a most welcome letter from a classmate who reports in very infrequently. This writer is William Ehnie of 891 South University Blvd., Denver, Col. 80209. Bill jumps bock to the Compus over a period of 51 years to refresh our memories of World War 1 days—the fall of 1918, when the Student Army Training Corps was on the ND Campus. Bill was a member of Company II assigned to Sorin Hall Barrocb. On the Company II roster were the names of such athletic stalwarts as: "Hunk" Anderson, "Curly" Lombeau, "OJoy" larsen, Rowley Stem, "Chuck" Crowley, and such nonathletes OS; Mark Eilers, Joe Tierney, George Staine, George Heneghan, John Meehan, Ralph Sacher, Gerald Crough, George Growney, J. Sinnoft Myers, Joe Becker, and Bernard Walsh. When the SA.T.C. was disbanded at end of World War I, our classmate Bill Ehnie attended Routt Col. in Jacksonville, III. For a 20-year period Bill was a civilian employee of the 
U. S. Army Chemical Corps. Vince Hanrafian contorted Bill by telephone on a Denver stop-off, while en route to Son Francisco last fall. 
Since our last report we hove learned that the Doctor Dan Sextons of Clayton, Mo. and the Roy Keoms of Terre Haute, Indiana did hove a chance meeting in Hawaii last fall. 
We deeply regret to learn from Mrs. Gertrude Lynch—widow of our beloved Classmate, Cletus, that his sister, Dorothy Lynch of 139 Olive Street, Meriden, Connerticut died at her home Jon. 29. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 17S Landing Rood, North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 

'23 A TRIPLET OF SAD NEWS 
Again, iust as I hod typed these notes, news come of the death of another classmate. Rev. Joseph Brannigon CSC in St. Joseph's Hasp, South Bend, following surgery and a heart attack. Father Brannigon was well-known in town-and-gown circles, having done parish 
work in South Bend and environs and in Milwaukee and Wotertown, Wis. Deaths of friends of mine hove come with disconcerting frequency lately, a good part of today having been spent paying my respects to Father Brannigan, to Herb Jones and to a third person "close to home." 
G. A. Goessling died July 12, 19<8, according to word received in February of this year by the Alumni Office. His home was at 22 Ridgetop, St. Louis, Mo. 63117. 
Outstanding honors were accorded to Father teo K. Ward CSC. Tuesday, April 8 ot the American Hotel in NYC, the American Catholic Philosophical Assoc confered on him the Aquinas Medal for 1969. This is on honor given for ourstanding work in philosophy. 
A new profect still in its start-up stage is hereby onnounced by your secretariat. Some time ago it was found that widows of ND Alumni feel themselves cut off from their old contacts when the decedents' names ore removed from Campus mailing lists. Therefore the Class of '23 is attempting to fill this need by substituting on our Class mailings the names of the widows in place of the names of their late husbands. A first moiling was mode to these ladies in February and already a moiority of them have written back happily, saying they are intensely interested in oil ND ofFoirs. Unhappily o scant dozen or more letters hove been returned by the post offices with the notations "moved; left no address" or "unknown" or "unclaimed" or even "deceased." We feel sure that this furtherance of the cause of Our Lady will continue to meet with worm response by the distaff class "members." 
Louis V. Bruggner 
1667 Riverside Or. Apt. A South Bend, Ind. 46616 

'24 COME JUNEI Our 45th Class Reunion is the moin subject of this issue of Class notes. However there is a side issue. A lot of the names you will be reading will bring bock thoughts of old friends. If you miss the opportunity of greeting them June 6, 7, and 8, you should get out the Closs roster and write a note to these old friends. It would be on exercise in geriatrics highly recommended. Our list grows with those who will be there, God willing: Robert E. Gfasscott, Raymond E. Faherty, John P. Sullivan, Earle Hurley, Jim Hurley, Jim Swill, Farrell Johnston, Gene Mayl, Leo C. Herringer, Urb Hubert, Bob Reagan, oil added their names since the previous list. Probables are: Tom Hodson, Lawrence Spuller, 
G. Don Sullivan, and many others who ot present ore undecided. Some may be mentioned more than once and some moy even be missed. Your secretory is not trying to keep on accurate list . . . simply reporting the informotion as it comes between deadlines. However, we do hove our Local Arrangements Chairman, Bill Sheehan, 1635 Riverside Drive, South Bend, who could probably tell you. I'm sure we will be hearing more from him about the specific activities planned for that greot weekend. 
Some notes of sadness were reported in the deaths of Thomas E. Cordon, and Michael A. Schmitt during the post year. In sick-bay at lost report ore: Dick Gibbons and Tom Hodson, 
We like to pass on the kind of information that Leo Heringer sent in his recent letter: ".. . Eorle (Hurley) writes on the letterhead of the legal firm of Ryan, Condon, and Livingston in Chicago, but since these names represent departed brethren, that has to put Earle 'up there.* Jim Hurley, Eorle's brother, also reported he will be with us at the Reunion, and his letterhead indicates he is the Hurley of Hollerich & Hurley, attorneys in LaSolle, III. Neither Jim nor Eorle has any current informa­tion on the lost "Buck" Hennes. 
"Tom Hodson from up there in Minnesota where the snow is currently nine feet deep, has the old desire to be with us in June, unless his heort condition mokes it impossible. 
Urb Hubert was another who worked too hard; he put the Hearst Detroit Times out of business after 40 years of association with it, only so he could retire. His letter come to me from that Florida city of communal benches, St. Petersburg, He will defend himself in June." 
Thanks, Leo. More letters like that will make it worthwhile to read these Class notes every issue of ALUMNUS. 
James P. Durcon 
5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Kd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 

'25 WOLF AT THE DOOR Lester J. Wolf of 333 West Park Blvd. Westmont in Haddonfield, New Jersey was the only one to send in any news for this issue and it was brief. "It's way past time to report but here it is. Thirty-nine years os on electronics engineer for Westinghouse/RCA. He now has his own company. Son Walter (ND LLB & Bse '58| and now partner in his law firm. Daughter Mary Jean in insurance consulting business. Son Jim in high school, aspiring to ND in '70." Thanks Lesterl 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdole <d. Toledo, Ohio 43606 

'27 HERB JONES-ND MAN Herb Jones, the member of our Class most intimately associated with ND died Mar. 6. He was identified with the Athletic Department ever since his student days when he was secretary to Coach Rockne. Herb will be remembered best for his long years of service as Business Manager of Athletics. Possessed with great competence as well as a genial personality, he seemed always to be oble to satisfy everybody who clamored for tickets for the greatest football gomes. Recently his energies were directed chiefly to the construction of the Athletic and Convocation Center. Herb's health had not been good for several years, and he had often expressed the hope that he would live to see the Center's completion. His wish was granted, end he was able to participate in the dedication ceremonies a few months ago. 
Herb's life was dedicated to ND, particularly to the Athletic Department. During his entire career he was on enthusiastic member of the Class of '27. He often served as liaison between the Class and the University, and his cooperation was always freely given to moke our reunions successful. 
Herb's funeral, fittingly, was ot Sacred Heart Church at the University. He was buried in o cemetery on Notre Dame Ave within sight of the Athletic Field. The funeral was attended by notional celebrities. Our Class was represented by Dick and John Halpin, Bill McCullougb and Jerry LeSlrange. A Moss is being offered by the Class for him. 
We must not forget Herb who was one of the lost direct connections we hod at the University. Our expression of pride and grateful recognition of his accomplishments should take tangible form. For that reason the suggestion has been made that the Convocation Center, or a substantial segment of it, be named after him. We hove been assured by high authority that this suggestion will be acted upon favorably. In return for this splendid act on the port of the University, Dan Cunningham, our Class President, has proposed that the Class of '27 purchase a plaque to be installed ot the Center which will set forth by proper inscription the service Herb rendered for ND and the esteem in which he is held by his classmates. If all goes well, the plaque will be put in place at a ceremony to be held later in the year. As yet we don't know the cost of the plaque. When it is determined contributions in Herb's name will be accepted by yours truly. 
Clarence J. Kuddy m W. Downer Place Aurora, Illinois 60504 

'28 ACE REPORTING FROM '28 
Bcmi* Gorber talked with Larry Cullmey recently and reports that he is bock at work otter on 
illness which prevented him frooi attending our 
Reunion. Larry's son is doing his doctor's 
dissertation on marine biology ot Duke U. Lorry wrote to Bill Owycr thai he will be bock for our 45th Reunion. Bemie also reports that he saw Dick Porrisft who is editor of the doily West Virginian and Sunday Fairmont Timet ond West Virginian. Bemie mentioned that he met Jock 
Winbcrry who is in prrrote law practice in NJ. Jock has three children ranging in age from 10 to 18. 
Paul Brust missed our Reunion to attend a daughter's graduation at Santo Qora. George Scheuer's son Paul is a senior at Purdue. 
Rev. George Oum CSC, who wos with our Class for hvo years, has been teaching philoso­phy at the U. of Partlond for 35 yean. Father George is still interested in music, having published original music for The lord's Prayer, Hoil Mory, tvro songs for Christmas and An Irish Blessing. Father George mentioned he would like to hear from classmates with this common interest—music. Incidentally, in addition to his further study on the piano, Vince Carney continues his classes ot the Art Institute in Chicago and takes a history course ot Northern Illinois U. 
Bill Dwyer and I represented the Qoss at the ND Club of Chicago Annual Communion Breokfost. Bill, who is octhre in the club as chairman of the nominoting committee, found thot most '28 men at the time were out of town, including Howie Phalin in Rio de Janeiro; Joe Griffin in Arizona, and Roy lusson in Flo. Charles Schuessler, who usuolly attends, reported that his wife hod been injured in a foil. Frank Creadon and Moe were in Virginia where he attended the notional meeting of the American Mosquito Control Assn., having just completed his term as president of the Illinois chapter. Speaking of annuol Communion dinners. Bob Hamilton and George Crongeycr represented the Class at the NY dinner this year. 
I noted a picture of Frank Donovan with the president of St. Mary's College in the winter issue of the St. Mory's Courier. Frank plans to retire June 30 as chief executive officer of the Koydon Engineering Corp. of Muskegon. 
Our Class vice president for the west, Christie Flanagan, reports that Rev. George Bengolia is civilian chaplain at Fort Huachuca in Tucson, Ariz. 
Gene Farrell visited ND with the St. Peter's Col. basketball team. He saw Rev. Raymond Murray CSC who is now studying the mentally retarded and is chaplain ot a mental institu­tion. Gene served a Moss for the Class of '28 while on the Campus. 
I noted in the press that Jim Sftockncssy, chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission, reported peak revenue lost year for the turnpike. 
Rev. Jim UcShane SJ wrote from Honduras where he works enthusiastically on radio educational and ogriculturol projects. He would like to establish on advisory board to assist him with the business details of these projects. If you con be of help, please contact Father Jim ot Aportodo Po^ l 10, El hogreso. Yora, Honduras, C A. 
Joe Gallant '29 advised that he has retired from the United Aircraft Corp. in Conn, and has moved to 15 N. Jackson St., leconto, Ro. 32661. 
John W. (Red) Cavanaugh and his 16-year­old only son were killed March 8 in a collision involving his cor and a fire truck in Wilmette, 
III. John is survhred by his wife Jane and four daughters, ages 13 to 26. John wos senior administrative partaer in the McDermott, Will & Emery law firm in Chicago. He was on the board of Chicago-Kent College of low, where he received his low degree, and of the Dominican Col., Racine, Wis. 
John was very interested in our Class activities and discussed with me recently a program for promptly notifying classmates of deaths in the class. He asked me to arrange for the members of the class in Chicago to be his guests at a luncheon planned for April. 
louis f. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd. Apt. 1007 Chicago, III. 60626 
•29 THE SALES PITCH—YOU "Yes, I plan to be therel" No sales pitch your secretary con give will rival what you con do for the success of the 40th Reunion by adding your nome to the list of those planning to attend. From John T. Blasius, 247 N. Market St., Logon, Ohio, "Deor Lorry, my brother of the Class of '22 sent me a copy of the lost 'Notre Dame ALUMNUS,' and I see that the Class of '29 is holding its 40th Reunion this June. I lived in Freshman Hall with your Class, then was a Sophomore in Morrissey Hall. I didn't return as a Junior and hove not been bock on the Campus for 42 years. My brother seems to think that I am eligible to attend your reunion. Am I?" Your answer, John, is "Yes, you ore welcome indeed, we will have a seat of honor for you, and will work in relays to fill you in on the news of 42 short years, and will permit you to do your shore of talking, too. Please thonk your brother for his suggestion. Received a letter from Frank Hurley, Mossena, NY. I know, Frank, thot your many friends and classmates would be interested in news about your fine family. "My wife and I attended the 25th Reunion and enjoyed it very much. Don Plunketl and his wife were so wonderful to us. Our youngest son Bob is graduating from Clarkson Col at about the same time as the 40th reunion, os of now t do not know whether I can be with oil of you. I am still employed by Aluminum Co. of America here. We have four sons and three daughters. Our oldest son Jack a graduate of Dartmouth Col is employed by Traveler's Insurance in Hartford, Conn., daughters Mary and Ann ore olso college graduates. "Our son Tom who was groduoted from Clarkson Col in 1966 is on All-American hockey player. His U.S. Notional Hockey Team toured Europe in 1967. Last year he played on the U.S. Olympic Hockey Teom in Grenoble, France. 
For your information replies to the answer "I hope to see . . ." ore as follows: 
Charley Co/Jon, Tom Ryan, Bob Newbold 
whom I hove never seen at o Reunion, Every­body, Everybody who is still olive, lorry Mason, Pete Morgan, Tony Kopecky, Iry 
Corcoran, John Colangelo, Mickey McMohon, Tom Ferriler, John DeRoulel, Murray Young, Joy Walz, Murray Hickey Ley, Jorge Palomino, Bob Vogelwede, Phil Tompkins, George 
Monroe .. . oil the C.E.S, all the Architects 
.. . Joe Drinone, Bill O'Reilly, Frank Kelly, 
Jack Elder. (NOTE: nomes of the "60 Early 
Birds" were deleted from second list.) 
A special thonk-you is overdue to Joe Lenihon and Froncis Meyer for the work on Reunion plans. 
We have the news of the death of William 
J. Donelon Jr. '29 Sept. 29 vio the Alumni Office from his son Williom J. Ill '52, 1800 Mesa Ave, Colorado Springs, Colo. We add our sympathy and our prayers to those of hii mony friends ond admirers. 
tarry Sfouder 
Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Ind. 
'31 DOUBLE-SHOT SULLIVANS Tom Sullivan, friend of Bob Sullivan, Tulsa, is wasting no time in getting Class secretaries used to the more frequent copy deadlines in effect this year. I hod hoped that in the post month there would be more news from classmates. Malt Gorrigon responded on the yellow ALUMNUS posfcord saying things in the Detroit area ore on the quiet side, although he hod seen Martin Wider recently who lost 
o daughter lost April. Heinie Kopek is o regular contact and both are in good shape. Mott 
would like Spike Sullivan and Tom Monahan 
to Oct as on organizing committee to arrange 
a post-Michigan Stote-ND game reunion at the 
Randall House this foil. Will the committee 
pleose accept? 
At a recent Serro meeting in Evonston I ran 
into Bill Bromonn and Art Peterson of the 
class of 1930. The McQuaid Memorial Scholar­
ship Fund at Vincennes U has been set up in 
memory of our late classmate, Jim. Those 
wishing to remember Jim may send their offering 
to the Fund at V. U., Vincennes, Ind. Luis 
Godoy was again in Chicago recently and 
telephoned. Bill Chawgo sent a note asking 
Luis' address, but no news. I also received 
a clipping from Mrs. Terrence Wharton telling 
of the passing of her husband in November 
1967. Ray Collins phoned recently and said 
Jim O'Brien has been in St. Luke's Hosp. 
recently. Please remember our deceased closs­
motes in your prayers. Again, please forward 
news of classmates ond yourself for this 
column. Best wishes to oil. 
James T. Doyle 
7567 Ridge Avenue 
Evonston, Illinois 60201 
'33 GARDEN DEUGHTS On my recent trip with Tim Toomey '30 to the new Madison Square Garden to attend the NYU bosketboll gome, I hod the good fortune to meet Phil Foberty, who wos there with his lovely wife, Rita, and friends from Lombertville, NJ. Phil told me he had seen Rev. Chic Sheedy and Jock Hoy( at the Navy gome. The Fahertys' son, who is on ND graduate, is serving in Vietnam and was just promoted to the rank of captain. The impressive new Garden is well worth the trip but I was disappointed in not seeing more of our classmates. They missed on excellent basketball gome with ND winning. The "Block Irish" ore almost as good as our '31-'32 team that lost only two games. At Christmas we heard from Mr. & Mrs. Donald F. Wise, of Jolief, III. Irene and 1 just sent Rev. Jim Donnelly a cord for his birthday March 3. Please send him a belated greeting to PO Box 346, Copperas Cove, Texas 76552. Fr, Jim is having o difficult time getting teachers for instructions. That would be a good job for Jock Cunnea when he retires. Pleasant holiday greetings were received from Mr. & Mrs. Vincent Burke of Pittsburgh. Another yellow cord just come in. This time from my old friend Charlie Quinn. He soys his son, Tom C. Quinn, who is o Pre-Med student ot ND will be graduated this June. You con start making plans for our '73 reunion! Also compare the new high-rise dorms with our old Brownson and Corroll Holls. Lucien S. Kempf is not only a faithful correspondent but is also the Class Agent for the Annual Alumni Fund. You recently received 
a letter horn him soliciting funds for the University and for SUMMA. About 50% of our Class responded. Lucien writes that their oldest son, Chris, was just graduated in June from St. Edward's U, Austin, Tex. 
Immediately after graduation, young Chris was sworn in the Novy and commissioned on ensign three months later. He is now about to solo at Pensacolo NAS, Flo. The Conley prayers will be with him as we know how rugged on assignment he has. Our oldest, Marty, went through the same training, eventual­ly receiving his Novy Wings of Gold, lucien continues in his letter that Anna Rose and he 

ore just getting over the flu and are about 
to moke a journey to Colorado, on a combi­
nation pleasure and buying trip. 
The U. S. Supreme Court just sustained the 

conviction of Dick Gregory by our Class 
President, Judge Maurice W. Lee. 
The ND Fans of Philadelphia agoin 

held their St. Patrick's Weekend at Atlantic 
City. Lost year the guest of honor was Bob 
Cahill, '34. This year ND's All-Americons, Terry 
Hanrally and Jim Seymour, were honored. 
Irene and I plan attended and found good friend leo Keating. Charles A. Conley 
100 E. Turnbull Avenue 
Hoverfown, Pa. 19083 

'35 GALLOPING DEADLINES 
We received a few notes in mid February 
just a few days too late for the March issue. 
If you don't see your news items in the issue 
you expect—be patient—^they will be in the 
next one. The deadlines come around pretty 
often. 
George Foss wrote from Lancaster, Ohio, 

where he is with Anchor-Hocking Gloss 
Corporation as director of package development. 
A son, George, is assistant administrator of 
St. Vincent's Hosp. in Indianapolis, and has 
two children. A doughter, Mary Ellen, is 
also married, graduated from Michigan, and 
is now working on her PhD in Chemistry at 
Illinois. George's youngest daughter Barbara 
is a student at Ohio State. 
Jim Kelly and several others wrote to report the death of Bill Toumey, which we hove already heard and reported. He and Bill Murtha and their wives attended the funeral. The Murthos hove o son Gene who will graduate from ND this June. Although Jim didn't give us a rundown on his family, we note that he is still in Rockville Centre, NY. 
Vinnie MaHei—Andy's wisest decision since 

I've known him—wrote and sent excerpts 
from their local papers reporting Father 
Hesburgh's lost stand. 
VIC Corlon reports that he is in Coshocton, O. with the Florsheim Shoe Co. They have one daughter who is o Junior at Mount St. Joseph Col in Cincinnati, and another daughter in high school. 
Sacred Heart Church is in the process of interior remodeling. All the pews hove been removed—understand they ore being given away free for the asking. Anybody wont his own private chapel? 
Williom F. Ryan 
1620 East Washington South Bend, Indiana 46617 

•37 UPDA-nNG LAW 
Jim lev!, Crcuit Judge of the 7th Judicial Dis­trict, Wis., brought the legal profession up to date stating that he hod served 18 years as county judge ofter receiving his LIB and JO since '37 days. Jim attended the Centennial observation of ND Low School. Others of '37 attending: Pot Fisher, Bob Haley, 
Tony Brick, Red Wallers, Tony Scolaro, Art Mulholland and Fran Dunn. Ed Hoyt reported hearing from 
Rev. Joe English, MM, who, by the way, has a new address at Padres De Moryknoll, 
Parroquia N. S. De Fotima, Cosillo, 258, Toico, Chile, S.A. 
Ed still teaches at CCNY. 
Hold onto this from Art Hoffman, Dr. Art, 

that is. (Anesthesiology). Nine children, includ­ing a set of twins, the oldest, John, grads from ND this year and another registered for the class of '73. Three at St. Louis U. and rest in grode school. 
Jerry Besonceney (Ohio license No. ND '37 end 37 ND plates) expects to see the NU game next foil, his son is a Isf It. stationed in 
Virginia as a gunnery training officer. 
Wonderful letter from Mrs. Kay Lynch, Bill's widow, explaining his heart attack in L.A. in April, recovering at home and death in September. Bill had been a construction con­sultant for the Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent DePaul taking care of their building require­ments all over the U.S. Surviving are seven children, his mother and sister (married to Mafl Mc/nerney "37). Remember Bill in your prayers. 
Joe Moore, Bloomfield, NJ, mode the picture of the week in Newark News sport section as coaching aide in bosketball. Joe MangelU also hails from the some burg. We need a new address for Mike firios, Manila. 
Jock Mulligan from Lake Village, Ark., one of our track stars of '37 finally showed up on our listing. Send some news along. Jack. Moybe Fr. Hesburgh will further recommend "tossing them in the lake." It sure worked in the '30s. Congrotulotions to Len Tose on his election—now he's looking for money at low roles to toke over the Eagles and Joe Kuhorich. Gordon Murphy is touring South America this time of year—cord from Rio reports on our world traveler. 
Joe Quirtn 
P.O. Box 275, lake tenope Andover, N.J. 07821 

'40 VOLUMINOUS SHORTAGE As it seems to happen with unusual regularity a month of rather voluminous news is immediately followed by an obvious shortage. Once again I must report the type of information I sincerely regret receiving. James 
F. Shiely passed away in February. In the 
name of all men of '40 I express the condolences 
of all of his classmates to his family and 
assure them that we will remember him in 
our Masses and prayers. 
On a recent visit to the ND Campus, 
I found where Jim Cullalher has been hiding. 
He has been teoching in the College of 
Business Administration since 1952. 
Don Smith was the only one to use the yellow card recently and he did such a good job I will let him take over. "I'm still with Caterpillar in Peoria where I hove been since graduation—manager—corporate cash. We hove many ND grods at Cot and in Peoria where we hove a very active ND Club. See John Gilbert nearly every day. 
" I usually sit next to Dr. John Kelteher and Jim Donoghue at football games. Of course I see my old roomie and brother-in-law. Bill O'Briert quite often. Bill is exec, vp al Shulton. f^ad dinner with George Preston while on a European business trip. George is with Caterpillar overseas in Geneva." 
Although that was a very fine communication Don neglected to mention that he is the Mayor of his home town, Metamora, III. As all of you con see, your secretary is handicapped this issue due to lack of help from you. Moke an effort to keep our column representative of our ND enthusiasm. I remind each of you men of '40 to write to Shorty. 
Robert G. Sanlord 
233 W. Centra; Ave. 
Lombard, III. 60148 

'42 A MOUNTAIN VIEW Brother Solvolor fsposito CSC, sent us on ALUMNUS card advising that he is teaching 
English and Heod of the Oeparftncnt at Saint 
Francis HS, 1885 Miromentc Ave., Mountain 
View, Calif. Brother Sohrator soys he hos btcn 
out of touch with the ALUMNUS for o number 
of years, but we hop* to correct tlitf in His 
future. 
Peter Polteiti sent us som* ntrtn, and it vras 
good hearing from him. Pcti soys, " I am 
currently vice president of Inttrpodbgingj Inc., 
locoted ot 175 Main Street, Whit* Plains. NY. 
I live in Poundridge, NY (West lone) and 
hove two children. 
Sounds like Pete and his family ore 
all doing extremely well, and our best to 
oil of them. 
Wifliom M. Niciey 5500 W. 73rd St. 
Chicago, III. 60638 

'43 BUSY SEC Your secretary attended the Knute Rocbie Awards Dinner in Chicago, honoring the outstanding high school scholar-athletes of the Chicago Area. Broke bread with Vcm Petlouchoud, Windy Cty insurance tycoon, ond Jock Griffin, broker. Joe Keenon, Tony Cirolamit Clerk of the Crcuit Court, and our President, Jock Sorry, barrister, were also present. After o terrific program, emcecd by sportscoster Frank Gilford, President Barry and your secretory reviewed old times. While in Chicago I spent a pleasont evening with Ed Hanrahan, the newly elected State's Attorney of Cook County. Wolter Krowiec is o member of his fine staff. 
Talked by phone with Bud Dudley, owner and promoter of the liberty Bowl at Memphis, prior to the gome. Bud was anticipating a 

The ^Saw-Ga^'Ot An ND Man 
EXACTLY who is a son of Notre Dame? What makes a Notie Dame man? Marvin M. Hickey doesn't have a class year following his name, but if there ever was an ND man, he's it, 
A long-time South Bend native, Hickey is a builder of the University 
— literally. His carpenter's saw knows Farley Hall from its basement beams to the shingles on the roof. It might also tell of the construc­tion of the first stadium on Cartier Field when the "Rock" would occa­sionally chat with 20-year-old Marv, or of the fun days spent changring all of the "swinging-in" doors in Sorin Hall to "swinging-out" doors so that the dorm would conform to Indiana safety regulations. 
Those superactive days have passed with retirement but Marvin and his saw are still keeping plenty busy. They now spend their time making crucifixes — more than 260 from grotto trees, the Communion rail of Sacred Heart Church and the log chapel have been sent to ND men in Vietnam. 
Hickey's gestures have elicited some response. One letter that he treasures is from Capt. Tom Harvey '63, LLB '66 and another is from Tom's father. A self-addressed en­velope sent to Marvin at 1030 N. Eddy St. may bring a bit of Notre Dame du Lac to one of her sons in Vietnam or elsewhere. 
And that is really what the car­penter wants—Our Lady to be recog­nized around the world because he says "she did it all." In 1960 Marvin broke a leg while working at St. Mary's Academy. "I was laid up for 30 months and the doctor told me 'you'll never walk again.' I prayed my heart out and Our Lady an­swered my pi-ayers." 
Hickey's days of retirement in *63 were diiBcult for one so active. "I was saying my rosary every day pleading with Our Lady to help me find some­thing to do." That's where the idea of making crucifixes came from. He stai-ted making them fi-om the wood of the old St. Joseph's parish church 
and kept at it until 1966 when a hip fracture put him in bed for another eight months. When he recovered in the spring of '67 he began a new as­sociation with ND, as starter on the first tee of the ND golf course. The former Vet's Village Santa Claus had to leave the links early in the summer months when advanced arthritis of the spine turned up. But Our Lady has come through again and the car­penter is back making crucifixes. 
If he's slowing down at all if s only because his old manual saw seems to be longing for some retire­ment of its own. Marvin looks to the day when he can collect the where­withal! for an electric table saw. It will undoubtedly serve to improve the quantity of "bits" of Notre Dame, but the quality couldn't be any better. 

Congrats 
Frank J. Burge '55 has James A. Waters '57 has been appointed Director been appointed national of Marketing, Instru­field sales manager for ments, at Fairchild Insti-u-the Loma division of Vis­mentation in Sunnyvale, tron Corporation, Fort California. He will have Worth, Texas. He has world-wide responsibility been with the Vistron for the company's line of Corporation since 1966. digital voltmeters. 
William W. Robi '59 has 
Major Stark O. Sanders 

been named vice presi­
'57 was named Outstand­

dent of Crockei'-Citizens 
ing Young Judge Advo­

National Bank's newly es­
cate of 1968 by the U.S. 

tablished Southern Begion 
Air Force Tactical Air 

Corporate Division (Los 
Command. He is present­

Angeles). He will be re­
ly assigned at McConnell 

sponsible for contact, de­
Air Force Base, Wichita, 

velopment and supervision 
Kansas. 

of banking relationships with corporations in 
Lawrence J. Whalen '57 

Southern California. 
has been promoted to Director, Hospital Prod­ucts Management of Ab­Robert A, Briitvan '63 has bott Laboratories, North been named Director of Chicago, Illinois. Prew-Technical Sei-vices for ously he had been with Ai-mour-Baldwin Labora­
the 3M Company as Prod­tories, Animal Health Di­uct Manager with the vision of Armour Phar­
Medical Products Divi­

maceutical Company, 
sion. 

Omaha, Nebraska. 
90od game, a good crowd, and a financial extended illness. A native of Peoria, Illinois, success. he was pastor of St. Monica's Parish, East 
The Kaiser Clan attended the Indiana-ND Peoria, 111., at the time of his death. Please basketball game on Campus with Bill Earley, remember Father Dick in your prayers. Bill spent a very busy football season Frank W. Kaiser scouting for Ara and saw only the last gome 307 Cherry with S. Col. Chalsworlh, Illinois 60921 
Spent a couple of days as guest of the Bill Eorleys and attended the Testimonial Dinner for FronJc Leahy along with Fred Earley -4A RISE AND SHINE '47 who wos in from Parkersburg, W. Vo. Time passes ever so quickly. Two months from Our Class was well represented now the Silver Anniversary Reunion will be with Bill Earley, Tony Girolami, Wolf Jones, history. The memories of the Reunion will be Wally Zieinba, Joe Keenan, Bob Dove, Bud treasured for years to come. The slogan Dudley, torry Su//iVan, Tom Miller, Ed Mc-"Rise and Shine" in *69 will hove fulfilled Namaro, end Jack Wiggins. its purpose. 
Jack Dunlovy, 7402 Colle Agerrida, Tucson, To date over one hundred members of the Ariz. 85715, writes that after 22 years in Class of '44 hove returned their cards indi­public relations work in the NYC area he has cating that they plan to be on hand June 6-7.8 moved West and joined Merrill, Lynch for the historic event. Those who hove not cs G stock broker. done so ore urged to do so promptly. The 
A December letter from Major Bob Corver arrangements committee needs this information. CMR No. 2, Box 9423, Langley AFB, Virginia Cuido Alexander sent word that he will be 23365, requests the current address of M/Sgt. on hand. Another '44er making known his George E. Thompson. Where ore you, George? intention of being there is Bill Brady. Tom Or can anyone else help? Bob is squadron O'Reiily who was in Florida "on business" commander in a Recon. Tech. Group. Unless he checked on Ben Brunetti who unfortunately or Uncle Sam changes plans, he will return was in the North. Tom reported that both he 1o the sociology dept. of John CorroU U, and Ben will be on Campus for the big Cleveland, in August. event. Among the one hundred plus pre* 
Jack Wiggins, now of 5125 Briggs, La Cres-registrants ore 6i// Bodden, John Crohon, centa, Calif., writes that he will be transferred Honk Dewes, Mike Frawley, Ed Gallagher, to the NYC area in the near future. Bob Dove Fr. Joe Hoyden, Dick Leon, Bill Mulligan, is now coaching football at Hiram Col in Bob Rohde, Joe Simons, Jack Thornton, Ohio. Aurelio Zoilo and Ed Pessemier. 
Our sympathy is extended to Thomas D. fAaber A note was received from George Wendt, ond his brother Robert '35 upon the death Chicago area real estate executive. One of his of their fother. main interests besides his wife, seven children 
It is with deep regret that we report the and his work is his involvement in the U.S. death of Rev. Richard C. O'Brien after an Navol Reserve where recently he was selected 
1« 

to be Captain. George frequently sees Ed Monahan who expects to join him and other 
'44ers for the Reunion. 
Joe Gall looks forward to so many things ot Reunion time. To mention a few—"Black John" Murphy's gray hair. Gene S/evin's stories about how many rules he broke. Bill Woldron's recounts about just anything and everything ond Ed Dowling's tales of how many St. Mary's hearts he broke. Joe sends out a warning to Gene and to Bob Thumm to remember their oges and his too becouse he knows he couldn't survive a Reunion as involved os was the fifteenth. Joe's oldest son is o sophomore at West Point and now he reported that his second son has been accepted at ND under the early admissions plan for the fall of '69. 
John Murphy decided it was appropriate to extend sympathy to Tom Rolfs and yours truly over the departure of Lombordi for Washington. There were no tears, John. Mr. Lombordi gained much from his ten years in Green Boy and, equally, the Packers and the community benefited tremendously from his being here. He is wished well and Godspeed. Time will prove that Phil Bengston wears iust OS important and as big shoes as Vince Lombard!. 
Once again every '44er who has not done so is urged to return his registration intent cord promptly. Likewise, and equally as important, complete and mail the Silver Anniversary Bequest cord to Jerry Slonlon, chairman. Your full effort and cooperation is needed to make this event one of the highlights in your life as a true son of ND. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box a53 
Green Boy, Wisconsin 54305 

'46 JOT NOW 
I regret to write thot responses from classmates 
recently have been very lacking. While we 
do come from a very small Class I am sure 
that you can find a few moments to sit down 
and [ot a note on the yellow card and pass 
it on to me so thot we con respond with a 
more favorable column in the future. 
Fortunately, I do have a bit of news to 
report. Dr. Stanley J. Idzerda, President of 
St. Joseph, Minn. College of St. Benedict was 
recently granted the honorary degree "Doctor 
of Humane Letters" at midyear commencement 
exercises at Central Michigan U. 
Frank fluggiero took time to drop me a line. 
Frank is completing his 23rd year as a teacher 
at Neptune H S in New Jersey. Frank 
spends much of his leisure moments surf 
fishing ond he and his wife wish to invite their 
many friends to drop in to see them. Frank's 
son, Leo, is attending Vet School at Rutgers 
University. Thot's itl 
Receipt of a little yellow card would 
be appreciated. 
Peter P. Richhki 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 

'48 SHARING OPINIONS 
I just returned from a five-week trip to South 
and Central America ond consequently I missed 
the lost issue of the ALUMNUS. 
While 1 was away probably the best news I heard was the announcement of Father Hesburgh on how things were going to go on the Campus as for as demonstrations ore concerned. Those of us who were deprived of our "civil rights" years ago and had to "put up" or "shut up" hove been amazed at the situations in recent years on the Campus. We can all remember the "thousands waiting at the gate" if we didn't like the way it was at the time. ND certainly does not need what hos been going on and it was quite pleasing to hove my South American friends coll my ottention to whot they were reading in their local press about the new formula at ND. This "meditation" can really amount to something if the malcontents go home leaving port of Dad's funds with the Director of Student Accounts for only a partially com­pleted semester. If we put the money where the mouth is, there will be less mouthing off ond more concentration on why they are at ND ond what it will do for them. Alumni who have the opportunity to interview prospective students should look at all angles and see if the boy they ore talking to measures up to what is expected of on ND man and not just judge the prospect on his fomily background. We feel that many of these past problems could have been overcome before now if the odmis­sion policy would have been more flexible and not just for the high scorers, many of whom ore in a world by themselves. When ND hod 0 student body of A-B-C-type students it did not hove these problems but once it went to the "brain trust" it hos shown what 
con happen. 
A post cord from Leon Hart out of Ma lone, NY, tells me of his recent visit to the Campus ond time spent with Father Hesburgh. 
Gene Dean sent us a yellow card about all those he has met in his nationwide travels, guys like Ben Sheeron, Dick Digan^ Tony Mislrella, Bob Flannery and Bob Hollenkawp, At the lost reunion Gene was awarded a "Great Guy" plaque by some of his close friends, not for what he has accomplished but for what he soys he is, but in turn he would like to trade in the plaque for the cash that is owed to him by a few of his close friends (that's you, Bunky, Leo and Oom). 
Maurice Tessin of Midland, Mich., has been named mgr. of financial serfices for the organic chemicals dept. of Dow Chemical Co. Jack Horrigan has recently been oppointed second vice pres in the commercial banking 
dept. at the Continental III. Notional Bank and 
Trust Co. 
Ed Shea is now back in the USA and living 
in Colorado Springs. Bob Owens is now living 
in Lima, Ohio. Leo Veiter is in Shawnee 
Mission, Kon. Ed Reciter is back in South Bend. 
Jim List is in the Dept. of Biology at Boll 
State U. in Muncie. 
That's about it for now. I'm sure you like 
to read this exciting column but it is not 
mine, it is ours. So let's participate. By the 
way, how did you like that story about 
Jim Mello? Although he was a great fumbler in the old days he sure has a grasp on things today. George J. Keenan 177 Rolling Hills Rd. Clilton, New Jersey 07013 
'51 THIGH-BITING—NO. NO Found a note from Joe Rigali which would hove filled that blank space two issues ago if it hadn't been lost. Joe watched the ND-Minn. basketball gome with Andy McKenna in South Bend lost December. They met Tom Sheehan, who lives in South Bend. All three describe the new Athletic and Convocation Center OS a masterpiece. Unlike the old field house you con no longer bite an opposing player in the thigh after he drives In for a lay-up. Joe also mentioned he received a Christmas note from Rev. Mike BransHeld, full of love ond hope from ossocloting with the Korean people. Fr. Mike soys a dollar goes a long way In Koreo; the poverty is almost unbelievable. Instead of the address listed lost month, you con reach Fr. Mike at: Rev. Michael Bronsfield, M.M., c/o Mr. Fred Bronsfield, Room I0<2, 33 So. Clark St., Chicago, III. 606O3. 
Bob Moriorly wrote Joe from 1208 N. 1, Tocomo, Wash. 98403. Bob and Joyce have five boys and just added a baby daughter, Margaret. Bob heads his own architectural firm In Tacomo. Peg, Mrs. Bill Ste/p/lug, wrote Joe that In March Bill should return from o year's tour of duty in South Vietnam. Bill taught for several years at the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs before starting his combat tour. His family includes three girls ond two boys. Phil's address: Major W. J. Stelpflug, Box 12414, A.P.O., Son Francisco, Calif. 96201. 
Dan Connell writes he is still practicing low in South Bend. He sees Paul Komora who settled there a half dozen years ogo, and who has a doughter that is quite o swimmer. Walt Collins also recently migrated to South Bend, writing for the "Voice of the People" column in the South Bend Tribune. Norb Drzazgowski [an ex-villager) is the co-owner of a Dairy Queen in South Bend, and is still single. 
Joe Naugbton is a patent attorney and a partner in the firm of Woodord, Welkart, Emhardt & Naughton in Indianapolis. By the time you read this he should be in his new home at 555 Mellowood Drive, Indianapolis, Ind. 46217. 
Renee O'Neill thanks all of John's classmates who wrote after learning of John's death. 
Congrotulations to Dick Garrity on becoming chief engineer for the loader engineering dept. of Pettibone Mulllken Corp. Dick reports he does not miss walking behind the latest model manure spreader at the Harvester proving grounds. 
The Blue & Gold game [the scrimmage which replaced the Old-Timers Game) will be held May 10. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Warner Corp. 
200 S. Michfgan 
Chi'cogo, III. 60604 

'54 JUNE IS A-COMIN' The mail lately has been astounding and almost everyone soys they are planning on being at our 15th Reunion In June. Had a new "first." 
In the past I've received notes from wives of classmates but now I've recened one from a daughter. Jean, 13, daughter of Morv Seuhli, informed me that Marv left South Bend after 15 years for Dublin, Ca. Man is plant mgr for the Uniroyal plant there. Pfiif Brehm, after three girls, was proud to announce the birth of his first boy Nov. 14. Phil enjoyed a dinner get-together with Corf Foroh, Vem Essi, Guy Macina ond Jo» Eniler lost summer. Fred Poehfer M.D., LaFontaine, Ind. will also be bock for the Reunion. Biff Oofy invites oil you guys to sack out at his place if you gel to Augusta, Go., for the Masters'. Bill will be returning to Downers Grove, III., this Sept. after completing a nine-month residency at Tolmodge Memorial Hosp and receiving a master's in hospital administration. Naturally Bill will be with us in June. 
Bill Sfanfey, San Rafael, Calif., wilt be bock at ND this June for this first time since grad­uation. Bill, after a tour with the USMC, went into the brokerage business and now runs his own brokerage business. Liz and Bob Martin were overjoyed to announce the birth of their first child, a boy, Stephen Edward, Jan. 26. Bob is stationed at England AFB in Alexandria, Lo. Rosemary and Sob Miller have just moved to Cornwoll, NY. Bob is highway engineer for the Military Academy at West Point. Greg Sullivan is on asst. v.p. for Alexander & Alexander, Inc., insurance brokers in NY. Aside from that he hasn't been doing much. Oh yeah, he and Pat have six boys and four girlsl Greg recently hod lunch with Ed Gschwind. Hod a wonderful letter from Joyce Roymond. Bob Roymond has just com­pleted his fourth year in Surrey, England, for U.O.P. Joyce and Bob hove three boys and are expecting their fourth—by now he or she (hopefully she) has arrived. Bob con be reached at 220 Bonstead Rd., Banstead, Surrey, England. Talked recently with Ed Seim and John Grosspietsch (John and Morgo hove nine kids) and both hope to moke the Reunion. 
Miff Beaudine 21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
E. St. loufs, ;;;. 62203 

'55 EHRET RIDES THE ENTERPRISE 
Some of the old bunch manage to stay in the thick of things. Ji'm Ehref rode out the fire and explosion aboard the Enterprise in early January and now is back at sea on the some. His wife. Honey, reports that it worked out well after the initial score because Jim was in Hawaii with the family for three months during the repair work. Jim's address is VA 215­USS Enterprise, FPO 9i601. Son Francisco, Colif. 
Hots off to Or. Ed Toomey on his selection OS one of the ten outstanding young men in Boston. The Junior Chamber of Commerce selected Ed for, among other things, his work in recruiting medical teams to work in underdeveloped countries. 
Rev. Joe O'Oonnelf checked in from his heli­copter carrier off Do Nang, reporting that he hod spent the Christmas holidays in the Philippines. He is due bock at San Diego soon on normol rotation and then expects to return to Vietnam. "I've seen about all the sod things that you con see over here. I hope to God that it ends soon, and man sees thot he is capable of something better." 
Jim Bergquist is engaged to Joan Solon, and will be married in May. Jim has been pro­moted to assoc prof ond is writing a book that he hopes to finish between history classes next fall at Villanova. 
Ed Hughes checked in from Santo Monica, 1238 23rd St., where he is a talent rep for Hollywood TV commercials. He's married and has on eight-year-old boy. 
Mike Carroll, 14 Parkview Dr., East Hartford, Conn., reported in for the first time since graduation. He picked up o master's in aero­
engineering from ND and has been at United 
Aircroft ever since, getting on MBA at the 

U. of Conn, along the way. Mike's now doing market planning for the Pratt & Whitney Div. He and Pot now hove three girls ond two boys. 
Hugh Schaefer, 2906 S. Detroit, Tulso, 

conned his pretty wife, Angela, into writing 
that he's now an assist prof at the U. of Tulsa 
Coll of Law, having resigned as general 
counsel for Marion Corp. 
Our old Covanaugh Hall associate, Rev. 
John Ryan, has been transferred from the 
cathedral in Joliet to St. Rose Church in 
Kankakee, III., 486 W. Merchant St. 

Bert Metzger has been named to head the 
legal aid office in Seattle, where he has been 
establishing quite a name for himself in 
protecting the rights of the underprivileged. 

Condolences to John Clemency on the death 
of his mother. A special memorial Mass was 
celebrated for her on Campus March 2. 
Did I report that Chicago's Mike Ward 
has moved to a new home at 232 E. Thorn-
dole, Roselle? 
John Musolino now can be reached at 16 
Parcknieuwchove, Tienen, Belgium; Jim Mongella 
at PO Box 4019 in Nassau in the Bahama 
Islands; and Don Cavelt at Compania Bononero 
Oe Costa Rico, Golfito, Costa Rica. 
Among others who hove surfaced recently are Don W//son, 210 E. Timonium Rd., Timonium, Md., Guy Pierce, 2146 Las Lomidas Dr., Hocienda Heights, Calif., Jerry Poe, 9736 Juniper Lone, Overland Pork, Kan., Bob Hutchinson 1 Oliver Plaza, Pittsburgh, Tom Kinsler, 518 S. 88th St., Omaha, Wall Hourt, 939 Randolph Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif., and Bill Beck, 306 Milton, Victoria, Tex. 
Paul Fullmer 1922 larkdale Drive Clenview, III. 60025 
•58 DANIEL DOHERTY— 
WELCOME The J. Patrick Dohertys became parents Feb. 20, of a son, Daniel. March 1 Pot left the Chicago advertising sales staff of Good House­keeping to ioin U. S. Nev/s & World Report. 
Brother Bob Schwenker, O.M.I., will be ordained May 31. Our congratulations. 
LCdr Thomas C. Bartholomew returned from Vietnam last December after completing a two-year tour with Comphibron Nine staff. He is now instructor at Helicopter Anti-Submarine Sqdn 10 ot NAS Imperial Beach, Calif. 
Our congratulations ore also in order for Tom Moloney, who will be ordained as a Jesuit priest June 14 in Los Angeles. Correspondence can reach him at Almo College, P.O. Box 1258, Los Gotos, Calif. 95030. Tom reports thot Dick Mercy is also a theology student at Almo Col. 
Al Florin dropped us a line reporting the following: After groduotion he spent two ond a half years with Haskins & Sells in NY, fol­lowed by two and a half years with Parson's Ammonia Corp. Thereafter Al was with Suburban Propane for five years; ond for the post year and a half has been with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith as a broker in Morristowm, N. J. The Florins now have two sons and two daughters. Al reports recent con­tacts with Don Boier, Phil Thompson and Dan Irwin. He also occasionally runs into Frank Manzo and John Bres. 
Corl W. Boznonski reports his engagement to Miss Linda Donulevich. 
LCdr Peter O'Connor is now stationed in Washington as Public Works Officer and Resi­dent OfRcer in charge of Construction at the Naval Command Station. Peter returned o year ago from duty at Vietnam. 
Jerry Giroux has been promoted to personnel director Southern Division, Northern Illinois Gos Co. Jerry, wife Carole ond three children now live in Aurora, III. He also reports seeing Duane Salkeld recently in Kankakee, III. 
Robert C. Pivonka, M.D., is in private practice 
in Durango, Colo., having returned a year 
ago from two years' Army duty. The 
Pivonkos now hove six children. Bob reports 
that the John P. fnge/s family visited in Durango 
lost summer. 
A recent announcement from the low firm of 
Hopkins, Sutter, Owen, Mulroy, Wentz & 
Davis, announces that Patrick A. HeUeman 
has become a partner in the firm. 
Arthur L Roule, Jr. 
102 "I" Sf. 
LaPorle, Indiana 46350 
'59 SNOW FALLS—AND RISES 
Remember January, '59, and the heaviest snow 
in S.B. history, 45.3 inches and 25 inches fall­
ing Jon. 21, just as semester finals were 
beginning? Other memories will be revived next 
month OS the '59 clan gathers for big No. 10. 

Denny O'Brien (14670 Winthrop, Detroit, Mich.) was married in 1961 and he and Joyce have three daughters. Sheila (5), Maureen (4) and Bridget (2). Denny is with F. B. Wright Co. in rubber and plastics soles div. Another Denny, Leo by name, is with the Nat'l Bonk of Logansport, Ind. Denny wasn't able to moke it back for our 5th, but will definitely be here June 6, 7 and 8. The Leos also have three children. Recent visitors to this office were Mick Svndstrom, announcing both the birth of a son and his condidocy for the III. state senate, ond Vince Naimoli, interviewing for Continental Con, where he is mgr, new processes and technical marketing metal div. 
Warren F. Grienenfaerger is married, has a year-old son, John Frederick, and is lawyering in Chicago with the firm of Gardner, Carton, Douglas, Chilgren and Wand. Warren and Kathie occasionally see Tony Graham, a bar­rister with Wilson and Mcllraine and living on Chicogo's north side. Jorge Jose Zablah sent 0 note with his brother's request for on admission app. to let us know he'll definitely fly up from El Salvador for the Reunion. Wiley Rice married Jo Ellen Head June 18, 1966, and the following year began with Froncis 1. DuPont & Co., as o broker in the Okla. City office. Bill Graham, graduating from Harvard School of Business in '64, has been named mgr. of the fashion venture operation of General Mills. Frank Cohilf has been in Indianapolis for a year now, and in the interim has added another daughter, Christine, to his family. 
Bronko Nogurski's first report since graduation sees him married with three girls, eight years of pro ball, and now in soles for 3M Co. Bronk lives in Minneapolis (5105 W. 59th) and wants old friends in the area to give him a call at 921-1646. He has been able to com­municate with Bob Wefosko, Jim Colosimo, and 
Al Ecuyer. Tom Lee, formerly mgr of 
Montona groin operations for General Mills, 
moved from Great Falls to Palo Alto, Calif, as grain mgr. for Sperry Operations. Tom has 
been with General Mills since '61 and he and Mary Gerry are the parents of Mike (5'/}), Jack (41/2) and Amy (I'/j). Carl Edmundson married Janet Hofmeister (Dallas) April 12 in Son Jose, Calif. They ore now living at 444 
North 26th St., Apt. 6, San Jose. 
Mary Bea, Ken, Jr (6), Anne (5), Kevin (1) and Ken Hiegel moved back home to Little Rock after Ken purchased the Cessna dealership there. Ken spent two years at sea on a destroyer, married in August '61 before teaching thermodynamics and fluid mechanics at the Naval Academy for two more years, and went with McDonnell-Douglas in St. Louis from July '63 to March '68. 
Frank and Ginny Cutten moved six blocks from Oak Pork to River Forest, III. (Their report: Elizabeth [2%] and Catherine (1).) Frank reports that quite a few classmates hove been wondering if John Monnion would ever get married. John married Judy Albrecht Mm 7, and also has switched [obs, leaving Statistical Tabulating Corp. and going to work for Gen. Telephone Electronics. 
Joseph P. Mulfigon Admissions Office, NO 

'60 L THANKS TO LAWLESS 
Those of vs who attended the Law school cen­
tennial festivities in February were impressed 
with the quality of the program. Our thonb to 
Dean Lawless for a fine weekend. It was a 
good time for renewing acquaintances, not 
only of those in our own Class, but 
others as well. 
The only regret is that not more of us were 

able to attend. Among those who did were 
John Beggon, tarry Bradley, Al Kaelin, 
Jim Kane, Bob Manning, Hugh McCuire and 
Less Murphy. 
Not only were the ceremonies impressive, but 

also (he Center for Continuing Education 
and the Athletic and Convocation Center, 
where the program was conducted. 
Cofigrotulations are in order for Jim Kane 

who was recently mode o partner in the firm 
of Diebold & Millonzi, Buffalo. 
John A. DiNarda 
721 Htnmon Avenue Evanslon, Illinois 60202 

'62 DOWN WITH THE 
'INSU RRECnONISTS' I? Miie Dunigon sends a note from Pampo, Tex. osking to recall Father Collins and arm the R.O.T,C. to calm down the "insurrectionists" on Compus. Can't figure out if Mike's note was on the level or not. 
Copt. Mike Dougherty is on Air Force surgeon in Ching Chuon Kong base at Taiwan. Mike Marchildon received his degree from Stanford U lost June and is now doing a surgical internship at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore, linzie Kramer writes from Vacaville, Calif., where he is now practicing low. Linzie's wife Gayle just gave birth to their second son. Charlie Augustine writes with praise for Father Hesburgh. Charlie is a pilot for Western Airlines and based in Los Angeles. Pete Kirk is living in Mexico City with wife Joan and two children. Pete is now pro manager for the Mexico Cty Branch of First National City Bonk of New York. If on vocation in Mexico, the Kirk family would welcome visitors. Al Delp is now attending Harvard "B " school after serving for five years in the Navy. John Dailey will soon be at the U of Wisconsin for a fovr-year residency in ear, nose and throat work. Tom Ohio is in Vietnam as a finance officer. Tom would love to know if any classmates ore in the vicinity. Ken Pendel is now in Needham Heights, Mass., where he is 
o salesman of electronic components for Globe Union Inc. John fck has three children and %irorb for the CPA firm of Kerber, Eck, and Braeckel in Springfield, III. John writes that John Pugliese worb for Alcoa and lives in Chicago. Also, Gerry O'Neill is stationed at McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey. 
Finally, two sod notes: Your prayers ore re­quested for the mother of Tony Hyder and the fother of Roger KiVby, both of whom possed oway early this year. 
H. James Krauser 
8301 Garfield Street Belhesda, Maryland 20034 

'62 L ILLEGAL-OFF CAMPUSI 
Our class continues to grow. Its newest member is Mario Elizabeth, described by Fat and Stan Pccoro as "an angel and nothing else." Maria was admitted Feb. 26 and is living with her parents off campus at 197 Interstate Parkway, Bradford, Pa. 16701. 
Paul fC. Rooney 
United Stales Courthouse Foley Square 
New York, NY 10007 

'6 3 WENDY APRIL 
Nice note from Tony Reynes to start this issue. Tony took his MBA ot Columbia, ond is now a product mgr. for G>lgate Palmolive in NYC. He's getting married in April to Wendy Warner. Tony would lilie to hear from Froni: Froctte. 
Or. lorry J. Freont plans to finish his cordio­thorocic surgery residency at Vonderbiil in 1973. lorry is married and has two children. 
Bill McMahon is coshier of Continental American Life Insurance Co, as of 1 Feb. The company is located in Wilmington, Del., and Bill has two children, iaci: Mc/n/yre is a psychiatric resident at the U. of Rochester, after internship in Kentucky. Wife Ann is busy with two children, with a third on the way. 
Cpt. 8i/l Smith returned from Viet in December, and is now stationed with the JAG office in St. louis, until he becomes a civilian in September. 
Charlie Kenny married Heather Wilson in August ond is teaching in the psych dept. at Memphis Slate U. He received his PhD from Clark U. in January. John Manning was an usher at the wedding, and is married and the father of two children. He is procticing low in Saginaw, Mich. Cor) Widermonn married Borboro Glidwell and is completing his doctorate in clinical psychology at NYU. 
Word out of NYC has it that Bill Vasu and wife Morilise ore enjoying life very much. Bill is o broker with Smith Barney & Co. Bill reports thot Tom Harvey is due to return from RVN in April. Nick Harkins is set to marry Mary Beth Wilson in April. John MacLeod and wife Nancy expecting in June. John will go with a Wash. DC law firm after gaining tow degree in June. Dr. Joe Kisslo and wife Connie stationed at Potuxent Novol Air Station, Md., for two years. 
Jock Korcyz has new address, 12 Windward Terrace, Salem, N.H. 03079. He is a test engineer for Western Electric, married, and the father of two children. 
Nick DeVito is o trial attorney with Penn Centrol Co., Cleveland, O. He is married and father of two children, expecting a third in Sept. Nick would like to hear from Ron Toccfiini and John Skeese. His address is 17801 Brian Ave., Cleveland 44119. Marly Gordon is working toward a PhD in American Studies at George Washington U. in Washington. He is married ond working OS 0 teaching fellow. 
lost but certainly not least is a note from George Moddock. George leaves the Navy in March, and will go to work for Keebler in their production planning dept., in Elmhurst. George and Nancy expecting their fourth in July. Con any of you guys beat that? 
John Mooney is on art instructor at ND. Ion Merkle and Joe Kelly ore still in DC with the Peace Corps. That's oil for now, skimpy pickings. Writell 
Thomas B. Holopp 3121 Colonial Way, Apt. B Chambfee, Go. 3034J 

'65 PLANE CRASH 
More tragic news for our Class—Dave Janeski was killed in a plane crash in late December. Circumstances surrounding the incident were not available to this writer. Gory Thebault is expecting his third child shortly and is still with the Edward Hines lumber Co. in John Day, Ore. Jack Ciciarelli is working for a PhD in Geology at Penn State and was recently engaged to Kathleen Ross of Beaver Foils, Pa. After receiving his MBA from the U. of Pittsburgh in 1967, Dick Burbolt joined Monsanto Co. and is now taking a leave of absence to earn a PhD in business admin, at St. louis U. Pouf Reiler received his J.D. from St. louis U. low School lost June as did John Gordon, who is now with his father's low firm in Kansas Cly, Mo. In November he was 
Marshall (left) approves plana for TV Mass setHng. 

Of sticks and Stones 
WHY do we need a building at all? 
Why can't we worship at home or in a factory? Many socially concerned people today are asking such ques­tions and they have support from an unexpected source, the American In­stitute of Architects. Its former pres­ident recalls a colleague coming out of a $2,000,000 church, shaking his head and saying, "I'm almost ashamed to be a Presbyterian." It is from this same Institute, however, that we may hope for some balanced insights and guidelines in the con­troversy. Architects believe that physical and social environment can contribute to and influence the quality of behavior and that is why architect Willoughby Marshall '47 gives church designing a high priority on his work list. 
Lobster fishermen from Maine, nni­vei-sity students, Florida tourists, all are currently being exposed to Mar­shall-designed churches. Willoughby explains that his first requirement of a client is that he provide a good program. "An adequate program helps me to arrive at a design that fits the needs of these worshippers. The place of prayer must be right for this particular community in our day." 
How well has he succeeded? Na­tional awards have been given him for his St. Peter's in Mt. Desert Island, Maine, and Nativity Church in Hollywood, Fla. It was noted that 
the demand for economy in church de­
sign, construction and material was 
skillfully carried out in the $90,000 
Maine building that has become a 
community center as well as a reli­
gious one. Presently he is working 
on a design for the Newman Center 
at the University of Maine. The 
church will serve chaplains of several 
denominations and will also be used 
as movie theater, lecture hall, and 
stage production center. "We want 
it to be utilized every day of the 
week," Willoughby insists, "but a 
requirement that I place apon myself 
is that, although the church must 
serve all these functions it must still 
be well suited to liturgical worship." 
Four years ago opened his own oflBce and now is engaged In almost every kind of design. His wife Marie is overseeing the designing of a home economics lab for the State ColI^>e at Framingfaam and Bill 8, Maty 6, and John 8 months undoubtedly have great ideas for the Kecreation Cen­ter that their father is planning for the Boston Redevelopment Authority in the Charlestown area of the city. 
The judges of the Merit Award cited Willon^by's "architectural ver­nacular as appropriate to the area . . . respecting the landscape." Per­haps Willoughby Marshall's favorite hobby of mountain dimhing attunes him to this natural haimony. 
morried to Frances West of Atlanta, Ga. Dan Forward will be married to Jone Turner in Cleveland after graduating in June from St. Louis U. Medical School. 
Pau! Knipper is engaged in recruiting activi­ties for the Peace Corps in the Baton Rouge-New Orleans area and Spite Sfein is working with VISTA in Alaska as a lawyer while Steve Cuiberl is busy earning an M.D. at Stanford Univ. BUI Bridenstme and wife, Mary Anne, ore living in Detroit where Bill is working for Automobile Manufacturers Assoc. and last May received his J.D. from U. of Detroit Law School and subsequently was admitted to the Michigan Bar. Their second son, Michael Edward, was born in February. Tim Lawrence has moved to Crystal Lake, III., where he is managing the finance and insuronce dept. of Conlon-Collins Ford Inc. Since graduating from U. of Texas Law School last year. Sat Levatino has been working for the Texas senate and in June will begin a year's 
clerkship for a federal district judge in Austin. Sal's wife, Liz, also will receive her LL.B. soon. Paul Jackson is with LTV in Dallas. Pat Ford is in Pensacola, Fla., with the Navy OS a legal oide. Pat's mother just recently died of cancer. 
After receiving his MS in electrical engineer­ing at the U. of Missouri, Bi7/ Donahue joined the USAF and is now serving as a captain in Vietnam. He and his wife, Dicne, have a son, Timothy, age one. Art Mier and wife, Sandy (SMC '66)g have moved to Scottsdale, Ariz., with their new daughter, Lisa Nicole, born lost June. 
Frank Obert will soon be leaving the Navy to seek fame and fortune in radio broad­casting. R'onk was presented with a second son, Christopher Edward, in Jonuory by wife, Cathy. Mike Conerty is serving on a destroyer home ported in San Diego. Bill Slattery and wife, Joan (SMC '65] have two sons, John and Bobby, and ore living in New York where Bill is with TWA. After having worked for Western Electric for two years, Phil Brady recently entered Wharton Business School to eorn an MBA. His wife. Sheila, of Holy Cross Nursing has given Phil two children: Philip II and Megon Elizabeth. Denny Allen was married lost October to Donna Strand of Wheaton, \\\. and he is living there now while working for Sears, Roebuck & Co. as a buyer. Denny is also working on an MBA at Loyola U. Phil Baldwin's wife, Janet, gave birth to o son, Philip II, Jan. 1. It was the first baby of the New Year in DuPage County, 111. They also hove a daughter. Dawn. Army Specialist Four Alan Diefenbacb was osstgned to the 1st Logistical Command near Long Binh, Vietnam, as a clerk-typist. 
Jomes P. Harniscb Apt. B, 863 Granville 
Columbus^ Ohio 43224 
'66 L CUT THAT CLERKING I received o yellow cord from Phil Ruddy, He has recently completed two years of clerking for the Chief Justice of the Illinois Supreme Court, ond he is now practicing full time in Aurora, primarily in the fields of criminal law and personal Injury trial work (address: m W. Downer Place, Aurora, III. 60504). Colleen just presented Phil with a baby girl as a playmate for their 2'/2-year-old boy. Tom Ready sent along a note that he expects to be in Washington during golf season, and we here will be looking forward to hearing him cry RMFRI I spoke to Mike Roche on the phone ond he told me that he had a heavy volume of triol work in Chicago, and sees the natives quite often. Jay Dougherty writes that he is a limited partner in Taylor, Brion, Buker, Homes, Greene & Whitworth in Miami and has been given G great deal of responsibility, particularly in trial work. Jay mentioned that he 
was at the centennial in South Bend but 

because of business pressures was able to spend 
only a brief period of time there and was 
not able to see anyone. 
Hope to hear from more of you soon. 

Frank Gregory 5018 Woodland Way 
Annandale, Virginia 22003 
•67 U ZIPLESS! 
At this writing it is the middle of Lent and 1 

know 62 grads who hove given up writing to 
the Class secretory. The only one who has 

not ignored me is the Editor, who shortened 
my column again last month. However, this 
time ! fooled hjm; the only way he can 
shorten this column is by leaving off 
my zip code. 

I passed the Connecticut Bar and was sworn 
in Feb. 25. 

James C. Heinhold 34 Wall St. Norwalk, Conn. 
*68 GONE FOR A WHILE! 
Congratulations ore in order for the engaged couples: Miss Barbara Zimmerman to Jim John' son who will be married Aug. 30. Miss Nancy M. Hillenbrand to Lt. Benedict t. 
Lucchese, wedding date May 30, 
Best wishes to the newlyweds: Peter Toomey married the former Sheila Donahue June 22. Peter is presently stationed at R. Dix, N.J. Bill Smith Jr., married the former Judith K. Motuszewski Oct. 19. Bill is busy assuming new duties at the Commerciol National Bank, Peoria, III. Congratulations to Jane and John Broderick who tied the knot Dec. 23. John at present is at OCS, R. Belvoir, Va. Tom Knight married Sue Kozak of St. Mary's class of '68 this post fall. Tom is at the 
U of Neb. Med. School. Michael Murray mar' 
ried Cathy Clark Oct. 14. Michael E. Cooney 
married Marsha Hubbard Jan. 25. 
Uncle Sam added these nephews to his list: Army 2nd Lt. John i . Corey was ossigned as a communications officer with the llth Infantry Brigade in Vietnam. 2nd Lt. Kenneth J, Ladny completed officer basic training course at the Army Armor School, R- Knox, Ky. Tom McDermott, drafted, stationed Ft. Knox, Ky. Wally Hall is presently stationed ot R. Eustis, Va. Rocky Bleier presently stationed at R. Gordon, Go. 2nd Lt. Mike Hagan and 2nd Lt. Tom Blum hove been assigned to the 194th Armored, Ft. Knox, Ky. The Navy also has o groduate. Ensign Kevin T, Coyle was commissioned upon graduating from NROTC­NAVOCS at Newport, R.I. The Air Force has 2nd Lt. Terry McSweeney stationed at Hill Air Force Base, Litah. Our classmate in the Marines is 2nd Lt. Steve Brandt. At present he is at flight school at Fort Wolters, Tex. Mike Wolf is olso in the Marine Corps. 2nd Lt. John Meoney is at Jump Schoc! at Ft. Gordon, Ga. Edward J. Wilbraham drafted in the Army Jan 20, taking his basic at R. Knox, Ky. Walt Maxham is at R. Sill, Oklo. Mike 
Bresnaban is serving aboard the St. Francis River. Mark Lies is aboard the USS O'Brien. Bob Raaf is on the USS Radford. Paul Romanskt is aboard the USS Hissem. John Hughes 
is in Engineering School for the Navy. Bill Dewey is serving in Vietnam. 
The following classmates ore going to gradu­ate school: Pete Wayne Med School at Woyne State U. James Knaus is getting his teaching cert, ot Woyne State. Ken DiLaura is teaching grade school and getting his MBA at Wayne State. Bi7/ Foley is at the U. of Fla. for his MBA. Joe Scott is at Low School at 
U. of Kentucky. James E. Blackwell Wayne State Med. School (Detroit). Mike Quirk— Marquette U. Low School. Michael Coleman is getting his MBA at Woyne State. 
Good luck to the working class. Marly Barry teaching at Marlbourough HS, NJ. Tom Preston working in Colifornio on Air Pollution for 
the government. Ken Hungerford teaching HS 
in Grond Rapids, Mich. Congratulations to 
Robert R. Cosey who received the gold medal 
for the May '68 CPA examination in the 
state of La. And yours truly enlisted in the 
Army, left Jan. 30 for R. Leonard Wood, Ma. 
Sorry we missed the February issue. 
Lorry Pellecchia 
311 Mt, Prospect Ave. Newark, N.J. 07104 
'68 L FEEL A DRAFT? A thousand opologies for the Interruption in the continuing story of the Class of *68. But you can thank my draft board for it. Dec. 24 those lovely people decided that it was time for my induction despite the fact that I was slated to enter Navy JAGC in March of this year. The result of all this is that I am now on active duty, having left Wall Street far behind. I will be in Newport until early June when I will proceed to Norfolk, Va., as Assistont Force Legal Officer for the Service Force of the Atlantic Fleet. A smoll-scole reunion was held over the Christmas holidays at Pete and Rosemary King's apartment on Long Island. Treated to an abundonce of Southern cooking were myself, 
John Coyle, Tom Curtin, Lanny Bonenberger, 
and Jim Cooling. After handing me his card 
for the firm of Cooling and Weiss, Jim left 
to catch a plane heading for Germany, where 
he will be stationed for the next two years. 
"Trick-knee" Curtin is happily working for 
a law firm which has just opened a branch 

office in his home town of Boonton, N.J. 
Lanny Bonenberger has come out of retirement 

and is working for an attorney in Wheeling. 
He is still thinking strongly about moving on to 
Washington. J.C. was the same as ever. 
He, too, is in the Army. But he misses the 
"Burg." Pete ond Rosemary ore getting along 
fine themselves. Rosemary is teaching in 
Great Neck while Pete completes his four 
months of active duty in the Reserves. At 
present Pete is ot Fort Ord, Calif, (yes, Califor­
nia] training with o unit heading for Vietnam 
—even though Pete himself completes his 
active duty in March. 
Bob and Molly Wilczek have been blessed with a daughter, Meghan Rowan. Both are, of course, extremely happy with "the most beautiful girl in the world." 
At lost word, Dick Hirsch and Jack Sandner were both in Colifornio. I recently heard from Jim ond Ann Seckmger who provided the following informotion: 
Bob and Mary Sidman had a boby gtrl, Christa Mary, Jan. 15. Christo was a bit early and weighed in at 4 lbs. 14 oz. 
Betty and Bud Seall are expecting a little Seall in May. The prospective papo is olreody suffering a severe case of the jitters. Bud really enjoys the low firm he is working for in Doyton and hos passed-the Ohio Bar. 
And! and Al Barnord wrote thot they enjoy Minneapolis. They ore expecting their second child In May. Ann reports that Jim and Kathy McGovern ore also in the Minneapolis area and hove adopted o little boy. 
Tom and Carol Word are also expecting. 

On o recent trip to Sonta Fe, Jim and Ann visited Owen Lopez and his fiancee, whom he will marry April 12 in Danville, 111. Owen enjoys working for Circuit Court Judge Seth and plans to remain in Santa Fe next year. 
Jim recently won the Reginald, Smith, Heber Fellowship. He and Ann will be staying in Denver. 
That's about it for now. Until the end of May I con be reached at the address below, ond I would appreciate receiving any news at all. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
I6V2 Liberty St., Apt. B Newport, R.I. 02840 

GRADUATE SCHOOLS •Qjiifiiii' 
Dr. Tony Tu makes use of sovie intricate equipment. 



A Man aiBd His 
9UMY, slithery sea ci-eatures—most people run from them but there is one man who climbs mountains for them. "When I started my sea snake venom research in the Rocky Moun­tain area, many people were puzzled. One time the Salt Lake Tribune de­scribed my research sarcastically, say­ing that Utah State University stud­ies sea snakes in the mountains. Even here in Coloi'ado people cannot believe that I am doing a part of oceano­graphic research so far from the ocean," wi-ote Dr. Anthony T. Tn, MS '56. 
Whether puzzled or in disbelief people all over the world are very happy that Dr. Tu is doing what he is. An associate professor of bio­chemistry at Colorado State Univer­sity, he is conducting research with the venom of sea snakes in the hope of developing an antitoxin for snake bites. 
There is a seram for snake bites that is manufactured in Australia, but the process takes one year and the senim must be refrigerated to keep it from spoiling. Dr. Tu hopes to produce a drug that will be less expensive and less time consuming to manufacture and not require refrig­eration. 
"We know that the venom is com­posed of 90 percent protein, but we don't know what type of protein it is," said Tu. "And the only way to find out what it is, is to collect sea snakes and break down their venoms." That is exactly what Dr. Tu does. 
"The biggest difficulty in collecting sea snakes is finding them," said Tn. "They are usually found in isolated and out-of-the-way places. In Thai­land we hired local fishermen to catch them with fishing nets. When we moved into the Philippine Islands we used local native snake hunters to go into the caves and catch the snakes," Tu explained. 
Once he has collected enough venom he heads back to the lab to classify it and develop an antitoxin for it. Ac­

Pets 
cording to Dr. Tu, scientists have classified approximately 70 species of sea snake and believe there are many more. Ranging in length from nine inches to eight feet, the sea snake gen­erally inhabits the coast of Southeast Asia, Australia, Korea, and Japan. One gram of their venom conld kill 50,000 laboratory mice. 
The thought of snakes scares some people. In Southeast Asia they're im­portant economically, socially, and even in religious life. The flesh of the sea snake is popular on Hong Kong dinner tables. Craftsmen in Formosa, Japan, and the Philippines fashion their skins into belts, purses, and shoes. There's even snake wine, made by soaking a simke in wine for six months. 
Dr. Ta even recalls a temple in Malaya where snakes are worshipped. "It was alive with them—crawling over altars, around ornaments, on the floor, over each other. I took a few pictures and got out. I'd rather work with venom. It's safer." 
ENGUSH DEPARTMENT 

From Mary Manse College has come an impressive bit of news. Sister Rose Morgoref Oostof MA '56, PhD '64 was appointed president of Mary Manse in June, 1968. Until that time she was chairman of the Depart­ment of English there and Professor of English since 1964. Her successor as chairman is also an alumna. Sister Mory Urban Krupp MA '59. Sister Mary Urban holds the additional rank of Assistant Professor of English at Mary Manse. To both distinguished olumnoe we send our best congratulations. 
In our zeal to report information about 
graduate alumni across the land, we have 

almost overlooked alumni at home. For starters, 
here is some current information about three 
colleagues at ND. Prof. Andrew Smi/hberger 
MA *27, a member of the English Department 
faculty since 1925, is the managing editor of 
the Natvrai tow Forum, Assistant Chairman 
of the Department during the regular year, 
and Choirman of the Department for summer 

sessions. In a few days from this writing. Prof. 
Smithberger will attend the conference of the 
Indiana College English Association, of which 
he is a former president. At this conference 
Prof, louis Hos/ey MA '31, a member of the 
Board of Trustees of the ICEA, will deliver 

the opening poper: "Humor in Literature: Theory and Analysis." Prof. Hasley has been on the ND faculty since 1931 and at present is on leave doing essay-length studies of Amer­ican literary humorists of the 20th century. Robert Slabey MA '55, PhD *61 is currently a Fulbright Scholar teaching American litera­ture at the University of Oslo, Norway. Prof. Slabey joined the ND faculty in 1964. 
We have a few short notices to report from alumni obroad. George fi. Bromer PhD '66 is associate prof, of English at Creighton U. Richard B. Cunningham MA '58 is teaching at Keene State Col. in New Hampshire. David 
A. lauermon MA '58 is associate prof, of English at Canisius. Sister Louise Soidanif S.S.A. PhD '67 formerly Sister Virgilio, is associate prof, of English at Anna Mario Col. in Poxton, Moss. 
Richard Kupp MA '57 is associate prof, of English at the U. of Miami, Coral Gables, Fla. Last summer he spent five weeks at the British Museum and in the Isles editing the Marble Faun for publication next year, and has com­pleted a critical study of contemporary Amer­ican fiction, entitled Toward Ceiebrofion, also to be published next year. At present, he is involved in setting up a PhD program in American literature at Miami. 
Hugh Rank, better known as Duke, this year joined the ranks of doctoral alumni. He is head of the English Department at Sacred Heart U. in Bridgeport, Conn., where he is organizing a new academic program on ethnic groups. He spent lost year as a Fulbright Scholar in Denmark and wrote The American Scene, an American studies text for the Danish school system. He has recently published 
articles in the New England Quarterly, English Journal, Renascence, and Homi/efic and Pas­toral Review. 
Two of our niaster's degree alumni plan to return to ND for doctoral studies in English 
next year: Sister Madonna Kolbenschlag MA 
*68, who has received on NDEA Title IV Fel­
lowship, and Charles Lav/lor MA '67, who is teaching at the Col. of Steubenvllle in Ohio. We took forward to seeing these old friends again and send our warmest greetings to all alumni. 
Edward Vasia Director of Graduate Studies Department of English 
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS That whip-cracking, editor soys it's that time again; so back to the main business of this column, namely, providing information on the present whereabouts, and past and present 
activities of our Physics PhD. Alumni-still 1950 to 
'59 vintage. To get you in a proper reminiscing 
mood, I might odd that we're conducting 
PhD Candidacy Exams this week (week in 
which column is being written). Remember 
those happy (?) occasions? Here we go-
George A. Hoos '53 (physicol electronia], 
wife Mary Jane, and four children, Therese, 
Patricio, Susan, and Christopher, live at' 3512 
Fort Hill Drive, Alexondrio, Vo. 22310. George 
was one or our own undergraduates (BS in 
Physics, 1950J. After receiving his PhD from 
ND, George joined the Naval Research Lab­
oratory in Washington, D.C., as a research 
physicist in the Cathode Section. In 1954 he 
became Head of NRL's Thermionic Research 
Section, and from 1967 to the present time 
he has been serving os Head of NRL's Surface 
Physics Section. 
Robert L. Sells '53 (theoretical physics), wife 
Patricia, and two children, Robert and Cynthia, 
live of 4771 Reservoir Rood, Geneseo, N.Y. 
14454. Duke received his BS degree in Mechan­
ical Engineering from Michigan in 1948, after 
having spent the period from 1943 to '47 in the 
U.S. Navy. He decided he liked physics, and come to ND in 1948 to work on his PhD. He joined the faculty of the Department of Physics at Rutgers U. in 1953 and there rose to the rank of Associate Professor of Physics. In 1963 Duke left Rutgers to assume the position of Chairman of the Department of Physics at SUNY, Geneseo, NY. Duke is co-author (along with Richard Weidner of Rutgers] of an excellent 2-volume introductory physics text for students of science and engineering, and also co-outhor of one of the finest introductory modern physics texts I have seen. I wonder if Duke and Pat still have o dachshund. 
Vincent R. Honnold '54 (high polymer physics), wife Peggy, and five children, Moryonne, Susan, Vincent, Michael, and Teresa, live at 656 - 17th St., Manhattan Beach, Calif. 90266. After serving in the U.S. Army from 1943 to "46/ Vince completed requirements for his BS de­gree ot California Institute of Technology in 1948. He come to ND for work on his PhD degree, which he received in 1954. In 1953 Vince joined the staff of the Naval Weapons Center, China Lake, Calif., and became head of their Solid State Physics Branch. In 1959 he joined Hughes Aircraft Company, Fullerton, Calif., where he is currently head of HAC's Solid State Physics Section, Radiation Effects Research Department. 
The editor soys that's all for this time. 
Robert L Anthony Assistant Chairman Department of Physics 
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
Received word from Jim Finnin '58, from Hawaii. Jim has been teaching at Moemoe School in Honolulu for the post three years. His immediate plans are to return to the main­land to attend summer school. Jim con be contacted at Moemae School, 319 Wyllte Street, Honolulu, Hawaii 96817. (It must be nice!) 
Sister M. Roberta McKinnon, O.S.F. '63, is presently working out of the Diocesan OfBce of the Superintendent of Catholic Schools as Music Supervisor in the Toledo (Ohio) Diocese. She is secretary of the diocesan Liturgical Commission and, is an active member of the Music Committee. She is on the faculty of the college extension program of Madonna Col., Livonia, Mich. — the extension center being in Tiffin, Ohio. (I wonder what she does in her spare time?) 
Robert G. ftuefz '50, is presently on the voice faculty ot the U. of Nebraska. He is director of the Opera Theatre. Earlier this academic year one of his recitals was video-toped for educational television. He has appeared as guest soloist with the Cedar Rapids Symphony in the performance of the' "Messiah." Mr. Ruetz 

was featured on the October Choral Festival 
at St. Norbert's Col. in Green Bay, Wis. The 
festival wos directed by Dudley Birder *52. 
It was interesting to note these gentlemen were 
classmates at ND and joined forces after 
eighteen years. 
Rev. Potrick Moloney CSC, of this music 

faculty, will present a program of English, 
Irish and American songs as part of the 
NOTRE DAME CONTEMPORARY ARTS FES­
TIVAL which will be held Apr. 17-Apr. 27. 
Once again we would appreciate any tn­

formotion you could give concerning your 
current position, etc. 
James S. Phillips University Bands, Box 523 Notre Dome, Indiana 46S56 

DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
Nihad A. Hussain has completed all require­ments for the PhD degree. The title of his thesis was "Experimental Investigation of Com­bined Free and Forced Convection in a Horizontal Circular Tube with Uniform Heat Flux." The thesis work was directed by Dr. 
S. T. McComas. Dr. Hussain has token an appointment with San Diego State Col. as assist, prof. 
Joseph M. Verdon PhD '67, has been ap­pointed OS an assist, prof, in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the U. of Con­necticut. He is a research engineer at United Aircraft Research Loborotories in East Hartford where he has been conducting research on "The Supersonic Flow Past an Oscillating Coscode." 
Hrst Lieutenant Charles M. Brunhofer, MS 

*67, has completed on ordnance officers' train­ing course at the Army Ordnance School, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. 
We hove not heard from Pauf Barbero MS *67, John Bender MS *57, or Leonard Boter, MS *59 for some time. News of the activities of these or any other graduates will be appreciated. In future issues we will list names of other groduates who are "lost." 
James Houghton Engineering Department Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 

LAW SCHOOL 
Richard H. Farina, of Michigan, was elected editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Lavfyer for 1969-70. He appointed the following members of the Class of 1970 to the review's editorial board: 
John P. Freeman (ND, III.), executive editor; Thomas E. Dempsey (LaSalle, Po.) and J. Patrick McDavitt (Dayton, Ind.) articles editors; John G. Bambrick Jr (ND, Flo.) cose editor; 
D. Joseph Pofvin (ND, Mass.) development and symposium editor; Thomas J. DeLuca (Dayton, Pa.) managing editor; Francis X. Wright (Loyola, Maryland) note editor; and Paul E. Poffock (ND, NY) survey and book review editor, 
John Plumb (St. Bonaventure's, NY) was elected director of the Moot Court, which now manages an extensive first-year program for oil members of that class; a selective second-year progrom which is competitive and vol­untary; and o third-year final argument which is a major ocodemic occasion for the fall semester. 
Daniel M. Shea (John Carroll, Flo.) was elected executive director of the Legal Aid and Defender Association, the law school's largest voluntory student organization. He appointed the following student directors from among his clossmates: Carl Frank (ND, III.) and John rfsfronge (ND, 0>nn.) postconviction remedies; Robert McDonnell (Belmont Abbey, No. Car.) prosecutor's office; Thomas Ebel (St. Procopius, III.) defender office; John Meony Jr (ND, III.) legal aid bureau; and Jerome Perry (St. Thomas, Minn.) special projects. 
Two new faculty members have been added for the fall semester — Prof. Charles W . Murdocli, who is currently teaching at the DePaul Law School in Chicago, and Professor Charles Rice, now at the Fordham Low School. Prof. Murdock is on Illinois lawyer who prac­ticed on loSoIle Street for 6ve years and in Naperville for two years. Prof. Rice, a New York lawyer, has been on the Fordham faculty since I960; he has written several books on constitutional law, including the recently pub­lished The Vanishing Right to Live. 
The faculty voted in March to abolish the Law School's present ranking and grading systems. Beginning next fall, students will not be ranked for any purpose, internal or external, and all courses will be marked on a four-grade system providing grades for honors work, high-pass work, pass work and failing work. Prof. Frank E. Booker headed a faculty com­mittee which devoted several months to study and consultation with students before propos­ing the new system. The grading system will accompany a revised law curriculum which provides about one-fourth of the work in the second year; and one-half of the work in the third year, in elective courses; these include interdisciplinary courses in other departments of the University and seminars in such oreas OS securities regulation, social legislation, legal counselling, and the advanced study of criminal law and taxation. 
Prof. Robert E. Rodes, Jr., will be on leave next year to complete his three-volume work on the history of the low of relations between church and state in England and the United States. He expects to work at Oxford and in London. In 1970-71 he will be faculty member in residence with ND law students in England. In March, Professor Rodes inaugurated the St. Mary's College series of lectures on freedom and authority with a lecture entitled "The English Reformation and the Rule of Low." 
Mrs. Helen White, administrative assistant to Dean Lawless, advises that the placement office has several employment opportunities for attorneys with experience. Graduates ore invited to keep in touch with Mrs. White, who maintains a separate file for olumni. 
Tom Shaffer 
Law School 
Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 
In the April 1969 Notre Dome Lawyer 

Quincy Wright, "The Foundations for a Uni­versal International System" 
Hans G. Rupp, "The Federal Constitutional Court in Germany: Scope of Its Jurisdic­tion and Procedure" 
Paul C. Bartholomew, "The Irish Judiciary" Student notes on consumer credit legislation and on social welfare. Recent decision notes on life insurance under the federal estate tox; tort recovery for emotional distress; federal jurisdiction and out-of-state fiduciaries; and jurisdiction under the Longshoreman's Act. Book reviews by Carl Q. Christol and Arthur F. Southwick. 
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY 
James Money is an instructor in history ot Biscayne Col. in Miomi, Flo., this year, a far more salubrious clime than either dear old South Bend, or NYC where I lost sow Jim at the A.H.A. convention in December. 
Anno Rose Keamty, Norman L. Smith, Jomts 
R. Sweeney, Thomas Pfoslino, and Mn. Helen Crip* are all serving as Graduate Teach­ing Assistants in the ND History Department this year. 
Woller Herscfter and i . Patrick Hughes are continuing their graduate studies in history at Oklahoma and Ohio State, respectively. 
Rev. Thomas Blonfz has been promoted to Assistant Professor in the History Deport­ment at ND. 
Sister Emily Velde has been a member of the History Department at St. Mary's (across the Dixie highway) for several yeors. 
Rev. Joseph Sfrool is principal of Notre Dome HS in Niles, III., and is this year President of the Notre Dame History Teachers Association. 
Lawrence Bradley has been for several years Assistant Archivist to Fr. Thomas T. Mc-Avoy ot NO. 
Rev. Juan florez, formerly at the Capuchin Seminary of St. Mary in Crown Point, Ind., has gone into the U.S. Army as a chaplain and is currently stationed at Fort Huaehuca, Ariz. 
Bernard Norling 
Hilary Deportment 
Notre Dome, fnd. 46556 

BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Anthony H. Wi'rfz '51, a daughter. Rosette Ho, Feb. 16. Mr. and Mrs. William Slolzer '56, a son, Michael John, Mar. 8. Mr. ond Mrs. Stephen F. Orogos '61, a son. Christian James, Feb. 1. Dr. ond Mrs. Robert F. Krause '62, a doughter, Mouro Frances, Mar. 10. Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Vmhofer '66, a son, Peter George, Mar. 11. Mr. and Mrs. Tico Foley, '66 a daughter, Joyelle, March 10th. 
DEATHS Edword Wurzer "03, Mar. 9. He was the brother of F. Henry Wurzer '98 and louis Wurzer '96. Justin E. Hytand '22, Mar. 6. He is survived by his widow Esther, a daughter and son-in­law Mrs. and Mr. Robert Uhl '49 at 1830 West Sunset Avenue, Decatur, III. 62522. Richard F. Gibbons '24, Feb. 6. He is sur­vived by his family at 20247 Blaver Drive, Saratoga, Calif. 95670. Michael A. Schmilt '24 Nov. 28. He is sur­vived by his family at 2180 Princeton Ave. St. Paul, Minn. 55105. Paul S. Benonte '26, Mar. 11. He is sur­vived by his widow Emily, a daughter Mrs. 
Lynn Fisher ond two sons, Paul J, and Rev. Timothy E. Benonte. 
John W. Cavonough '28 and his son John W. Jr., Mar. 8. Father and son were killed in on outo accident. They ore survived by Mrs. Jane S. Cavonough and her children, Mrs. George Humm, Ann, Jane, and Mary Eliza­beth Cavonough. The widow resides ot 76 Locust Rood, Winnetko, III. 60093. 
William J. Done/on, Jr. '29, Sept. 29. Bill is survived by his son, William J., Ill, '52. He resides at 1800 Mesa Ave., Colorado Springs, Col. 
Albert J. McLean '31, Feb. 23. He is sur­vived by his family who reside ot 1410 High­land Ave., Salina, Kan. 
Rev. Doniel £. teohy '32, Mar. 1. Pother was associate pastor of Little Flower Church in St. Louis. He is survived by o brother Delbert and o sister Mrs. Arnold Jormen of Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Irving Garnitz '34, Feb. 24, after on illness of 12 years. He is survived by his widow Ruth, a daughter Linda and o son Rick. 
James F. Shie/y '40, Feb. 20. Jim is survived by his family who live ot 1416 Goodrich, St. Paul, Minn. 
Norberl T. loskowski '41, Nov. 26, 1964. He is survived by his widow who lives ot 1127 Beoconsfield, Grosse Pointe Po.k, Mich. 
Don Hogon '42, Mar. 25. He is survived by his widow Jane and five children at 10343 South Oakley Ave. Chicago, III. 60643. 
Wilh'om J. Yoeger '42, Mar. 19. He is sur­vived by his parents, his wife Elizobcth, two sons, William J. Jr. and David E. and a daughter Christine all of 528 South Walnut St. Arlington Heights, III. 
Frederick J. Rovoi "47, Oct. 4. Fred is sur­vived by his family who reside at 8420 Cottage Grove Place, Highland, Ind. 
Copt. Joseph 1. Powell, USMC, '64, Oct. 17. Joe was killed in a helicopter crash while attempting to rescue wounded Marines. He is survived by his widow and two-year-old son and by his father J. Lewis Pbwcll, Sr. 
Wife of Joseph T. Rifey, '18 and mother of James J., '56--died March 29. 
SYMPATHY 
Michael C. Sconfon '54 on tlie death of his fother James E. Scanlon, Feb. 27. Max A. Roesler Iff '55 on the death of his father. Mar. 21. toron D. SchonbocMer '59 on Ifw death of his father, Jon. 16. Karf E. Rocsfer '62 on the death of his father. Mar. 21. Bro. Joseph Tobin CSC '63 on Ifw death of his mother, Lucy, Dec. 23. Terry T. Moroni '66 on ti n death of his father, Jon. 25. 
CLUBS '^iCil 

M. 0 SEPAEATE the men from the boys —^a necessity even in alumni loyalty. In an alumni body as active as Notre Dame's it is naturally apparent that there are many MEN but we've dis­covered one out Cleveland way, Rich­ard A. Van Aucken '57 graduate of the University's Department of Arch­itecture. Perhaps it's a sense of de­sign and organization that an archi­tect develops that helped Dick so plan the Cleveland Club's Golf Parties of '64, '65 and '66 that the profit in­creased from under $300 to over $1,500. His greater responsibility to 
Richard A. Van Aucken '57 telk how to throw a golf party. 


Every Club Needs 
the Club, however, began in '66 when he was elected vice-president, with its automatic move to president the fol­lowing year. "The experience as pres­ident was very rewarding," Van Aucken recalls. "You surely get to know your fellow Notre Damers." 
Back at the Campus office people were getting to know Dick, also. Jim Cooney and John Crowe spotted him as a natui-al for the chaii-manship of the Cleveland Alvunni Club's Summa Campaign. "And that was a lot of work!" he testifies. 
To continue his interest in the local activities, Dick appointed himself 


a Van 

Chairman of the Scholarship Commit­tee at the conclusion of his term as president. Again he was in a position to separate the men from the boys. "It was interesting to have the op­portunity to interview high school se­niors who really want to attend ND and are seeking financial aid." For several years the Cleveland Club had realized the income from about $30,000 for scholarships. Within the last two years that amount has risen to $50,000, and the never satisfied Van Aucken aspires to double the prin­cipal. Cleveland and Van Aucken will surely do it. 
BOSTON 
The Club held its second annual Alumni Seminor 
Mar. 9, at Cardinal Cushing Col. in Brookline, 
Mass. The topic was "Catholic Education—the 
End or a New Beginning?" Guest speakers were 
Rev. Ernest Bortell CSC, Chairman of the ND 
Dept. of Economics and Rev. Neil McCluskey SJ, 
Dean-Director of the Institute for Studies in 
Education. Dick Watwood was the seminar 
choirmon. 
Joe O'Neill did a great job running the 
onnual meeting and sports night Mar. 20 in 
Boston. The new officers chosen to lead the 
Club during the upcoming year ore Arthur P. 
Murphy, Pres.; Wi7/iom J. Pietrusiofc, Vice-Pres.; 
Thomas R. Welch Jr., Treas.; Michael B. O'Too/e, 
Sec. Richard Wolwood and John Gorman were 
elected Directors for three-year terms. After 
the election, the Club members viewed the 1966 
football film ond a film on the "Life of Knute 
Rockne." Frank Doriot, a friend and member of 
Rocknc's staff, was present at the meeting and 
talked about his day with Rockne. Also present 
were John Mazur, new offensive coach of the 
Boston Patriots and John Meyers, the Pats' 
new linebacker coach. We welcome them to 
Boston. 
Mike O'Too/e '55 

BUFFALO A regular meeting was held Mar. 25. The high­
light of the meeting was o very interesting 
discussion led by George Ferrick concerning 
investments. 
Dick Wogner again made orrongements for our members to attend our annual retreat. St. Columbon's Retreat House in Derby, NY wos the setting for the Passion Sunday spiritual weekend. 
In ecrly March the Alum-Wives organization were guests of Pres. John F. LaDuco at a luncheon at the Buffalo Savings Bank. The ladies were also treated to a fine tour of the bank's facilities. 
The club recruiting committee for the University held a luncheon meeting Apr. 9. At thot time they discussed o special award to be mode at Universal ND Night to be held Apr. 28. The principal speaker that evening will be Brother Raphael Wilson CSC, Director of Scholarships and Admissions at ND. 
Robert A. Dro/em 

CHICAGO 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held Feb. 16. Moss was held at Old St. Mary's Church and the breakfast after the Mass was held at the Sheroton-Blockstone Hotel with Rev. Ernest J. Bartell CSC, from the Economics Dept. of ND as the guest speaker. The breakfast was attended by approximately 125 people. 
Edward M. Moron '34 chairman of the UND Night expects a record turnout Apr. 28 at the Grand Ballroom of the Sherman Hotel. Edgar Bergen will be presented the Decency in Entertainment Award and the guest speaker will be Commander Lloyd M. Bucher of the 
Pueblo. Thomas F. Carey *55 
CLEVELAND 
December 2, the Alumni Senate met in Cleve­
land at the Women's Federal Bank Building. Senators from four or five states gathered for 
the sessions which lasted from 8 to 5:00 with 
just about everybody being represented — 
Us squares of the 40's and 50's who actually believed in haircuts and enjoyed Tom & Jerry Cartoons, some very personable students, who 
presented their side of the matter and the 
honorable Mr. James Cooney, who co­ordinoted oil opinions, arguments, beliefs 
ond martinis. Vic Gulyasey, our President here 
in Cleveland, was host Senator, and many 
of us ran into people we hadn't seen since campus days. 
We hod our annual Christmas Dinner Dance Dec. 7 at the Statler Hilton Hotel with Nick DeVito and his most gracious wife Kothy, running the party. They were supplemented by help from the local St. Mary's Alumnae, who combined their Christmas Dance with ours, and our own Women's Committee who wore "Welcome Wagon" bandanas to match their gowns. We had a great turnout with Chair­man DeVito obtaining a Rock and Roll Teen-Age, All Girl band for us younger swingers in the back of the ballroom and the more subdued and popular Hal Lynn band for the ever-dependable Alumni and Friends of the Rockne to Kuhorich Eras. 
Dec. 16 found us at the annual Rockne Awards Dinner at the Cleveland Hotel. Jim Rodgers, perennial Chairman of our Committee for so many football seasons, really put together 
o fine agenda of locol schoolboy talent, public relations merchandising and on evening of progressive entertainment and athletic enlighten­ment for the 200 guests ottending, including the boys, their dads and coaches. We were fortunate enough to be graced with the pres­ence of coaches Tom Pagna ond Joe Yonto. We prided ourselves this year in granting our awards to eleven boys from the area very talented and capable of high performance on both the football field and our challenging world. We ore hoping that Messrs. Porseghian, Pagno, etc., take a real close look at our Cleveland winners this year for we feel the mojority can be considered very thoroughly for making the grade up at Cartier. 
In January, the Scholarship Committee met, chaired by Richard VanAuken in on effort to screen prospective candidates, renovate our policy toward recipients and establish o more concrete form of oid for the scholars we so select. Hots off to Dick for assuming the re­sponsibility of this undertaking when our long­time Chairman, C/ay/on teRoux, possed away 
lost fall. 
On St. Patrick's Day, we marched along with the Notre Dame Band in our Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade and festivities. The Emer­ald Civic Society arranged for the bond. We were mighty proud of the band's performance as we marched alongside them, viewed by a crowd of about 200.000. 
Pafricfc J. Cannon 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY The highlight of the year's activity is upon us. We ore proud and pleased to welcome Father Hesburgh to the Hartford area on UND night. Mike Carroll *55, UND Chairman, invites Alumni and their guests to join him May 5, for what promises to be a gala evening. 
Congratulations ore extended to Bob McGoldrick '56, for his election to the Alumni Board of Directors. Alumni In the Connecticut Valley hove long been aware thot Bob is tirelessly devoted to ND. Now we applaud the opportunity that he has received to benefit ND on a notional scale. 
A family picnic will complete this year's activity. Everything Is still in the planning stage, so anyone who wishes to offer advice or assistance Is invited to contact Paul Banner *62, 51 Forbes St., East Hartford. 
Plans for this autumn are already in the works. Serious consideration is being given to a trip to the University for a football weekend. A survey of interested alumni, guests ond parents Is being conducted—^your timely response Is requested. 
Membership report: 53 dues-poylng alumni, 214 nonactive alumni. The Committee has contacted 41 members: 8 became active, 15 promised to respond, 10 were not interested and 8 hod moved. Sixty members will be contacted this month. 
Is there something you'd like to see on the calendar? Is there on alumnus in the area that we don't know about? Have you been meaning to get active? Please contact us—we wont you! 
John McGuire '62 

DETROIT Detroit went bock to a stag affair for its Annual Universal ND Night. This year the event was at the Latin Quarter Apr. 8. Michigan Attorney General Frank Kelley was the main speaker. Dick Condif was chairman. 
Bob fiogg 

HARRISBURG, PA. The Annual Meeting took place Mar. 14 at the Horrisburg K. of C. Elected to three-year terms on the Board of Directors were John B. Goedecke, MO, Bill fionde and Dick Crowley. Ernie Buckley was elected to a two-year term. Officers for the coming year are Joe Ellam, Pres.; John Bolger, Vice-Pres.; Ernie Buckley, Sec'y.; Mick Beke/|a, Trees. UND Night Dinner was held Friday evening, Apr. 18 at the Penn-Harris Motor Inn in Camp Hill. Prof. Ed Murphy of the NO Low School was our guest speaker. Committee members planning this event included Ed Eckenrode, John Bolger, Tim McGarvey and Dick Crowley. Ernie Buckley 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The annual Scholarship Boll was held on Feb. 
21. Under the Chairmanship of Leo Sarnhorif, and with the music of Wayne King, this event provided a pleosont evening for those present, and served as a source of funds for the scholarship program. 
March 2, Bob Welch and his committee, together with Dean Thomas P. Bergin of the Center for Continuing Education at NO, presented an ofternoon seminor in Indianapolis on the subject of religious education. Speakers were Rev. Ernest Bartell CSC and Rev. Neil McCluskey SJ, discussing the economics and nature of religious education. The seminar was followed by a dinner. Many facets of the matter of religious education were considered, leading to a conclusion that its future depends primarily on the importonce it hos in the minds of adults, and their corresponding action or inaction. 
The celebration of Universol ND night is scheduled for the evening of Apr. 28 at Stouffer's Indianapolis Inn. Judge WiUiam B. Lawless, Dean of the Law School, will be the speaker. 
Joseph A. Naughton Jr. 

MAINE The Alumni Association contingent hibernates a bit during the winter because our membership is spreod over a distance of 500 miles and with only approximately 30 members it Is difficult to get together for a meeting. With the coming of spring we will be plonning our summer festival and foil meeting and try to stimulote the activities of the members as best we can. Sadly we must note that Dom Zurto *58 will be leaving Lewlston and moving to Scronton, 
Po. Dom was a very volued member of our group and contributed much to our success. We are pleased that our member John 
Beliveau '59 is now our Mayor, one of the youngest moyors in the country and a tower of strength in this community. 
Ray Geiger '32 

McHENRY COUNTY, ILL. 
Notre Dame alumni attended the Annual Communion-Mass and Breakfast Mar. 2 as offered by Rev. Leo H. Ambre, pastor of St. Thomas the Apostle Church located in Crystal Lake, III. 
Approximately 30 members and guests, with wives, attended the Moss and Breakfast and listened to the remarks of Father Ambre. Among the alumni in attendance, including their wives, were the following: 
George Costello, John Coslello, Fred Keller, 
Clair Lambert, Bill Voss, Joe Conerfy, tee 

Biedermonn, Don Freond, John Corrigon, John 
Moriarty, Leo Powers, John Orso. 
MICHIGAN CITY, IND. 
President Dominic MoHo outlined plans for a 
few of the local club's 1969 activities. 
Dr. Joe Bergan was appointed to head a 
committee of Bob Oowd and Bob Schiel for 
Universal ND Night. Prospective students and 
their fomilies were to be welcomed at this 
dinner. A speaker will be named. 

Dr. Phillip Hodonos was named membership 
chairman for the club. 
Norbert Schaaf and Werner Graf were 

appointed to head the family picnic committee. 
Mrs. Al Smith will head the annual Notre 
Dome wives sponsored splash party. 

Dr. Koberl Frost and Bob Miller will co-choir 
the Irish Green Golf Party. Louis Dreske ond 

Wolly Timm were appointed to that committee. 
Don Wentland and Ed Dorgis were to investi­
gate possibility of o club-sponsored trip to the 

Purdue game and Al Smith, John Courtney and 
John Kelley were to look into plans for a trip 
to the Tulone game in New Orleans. 
Other club activities were discussed ond 
tentotive dates were set for the Annual 
Communion Breokfost and Grasshopper Frolic. 

Bob Miller '57 
NEW YORK CITY 
The world-wide observance of Universal ND 
Night wos marked with a formal dinner at 
which guests from the University discussed 

today's student problems; and the ND Man of 
the Year honors ond Metropolitan orea 
Scholarships were awarded. 
ND olumni from the metropolitan area, as 
well:as Connecticut and New Jersey, joined in 
the observance Apr. 19, in the Colonnades 
Room of the Essex hlouse. 

Three representatives from the University were 
the featured speakers. Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, 
CSC talked on "Today's University Student"; 

Prof. Harvey Bender, Dept. of Biology, discussed 
"Notre Dome University and the Student"; and 
Coley O'Brien, quarterback on the Irish football 
squad, spoke on "What Notre Dome Means 
to Me." 
Highlight of the dinner was the onnuol 
"ND Man of the Year" Award. It was given 
to Gordon Forester, '47, for his devoted and 

unselfish service to ND ond Catholic Education. 
Mr. Forester lives in Westbury, Long Islond, 
and presently has a son at ND. 
Gerald F. Saegerf '40 was Chairman of the Committee. 

John t. Nanovic 
PEORIA, ILL. 
Universal ND Night was held ai the Peoria 
Country Club Apr. 11. Coach Tom Pagno was 
our guest speaker. The ND Mon-of-the-Year 
Award will be made and the Ernie Arboit 

trophy will be presented to Spalding Institute as 
Mid-State Nine R>otball champs for the second 
consecutive year. We will also be honored by 
the presence of ten Skoglund. Our Club 

President, BUI Stotzer, is chairing the event this year. 
Our onnual St. Patrick's day dinner-dance, 
held at the Holiday Inn, was attended by 27 
couples. Comed beef, cabbage, dancing ond 
door prizes were plentiful. MiJce Ryan handled 
the arrangements and did a fine lob. 

The final event of the year will be our first Annual Golf Event followed by a couples' swim at the Hyatt Lodge, June 6. Tim Gorman is choirmon. 
R. K. Gordon 
PHILADELPHIA UnWersal ND Night will be an informal affair to be held Apr. 25 at the Germontown Cricket Club. Congratulations to Gerry Voif who successfully 
chaired the "Continuing Catholic Education Seminar" at LoSolle Col. The following were elected to two-year terms to the Board of Governors: f d Broderidi, Jot 
Hilger, George Mitchell, Ray Mullen, Gerry 
Voil and William Whiteside. George Mitchell 
is our new president. 

gay E. Mullen '60 
RHODE ISLAND AND S.E. A^SSACHUSETTS Tuesday, Feb. IB, over 200 members and guests gathered at the Ballroom of the Holiday Inn, Providence, for a cocktail hour and dinner to inaugurate SUMMA in the Providence area. Representing the University and presenting o few short words of encourogemenf were Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC, Dr. Tom Stewart, Assist, to the President, and Bob Rigney, a Junior from Belleville, III. The Club's annual Man of the Year Award was presented to past president Phil Toole '52 for his unfailing efforts to further the interests of the ND Club over the post years. 

Bernie McMahon, '65 
ROME 

Our ND Hospitality Center is at your service daily from noon to nine at 82 Largo Broncaccio near rail-air terminal, Tel. 730002. In the March issue we regoled you with news of our golo St. Patrick's Day dinner-dance. We were tempted to say that we had planned a Mar. 17 parade but doubted permission from Caesar's successors. We got it. We had the parade. McNomaro's 50-piece band led by four white horses mounted by Roman police was followed by several hundred of the faithful. History is made: The very first St. Pot's Day Parade in Eternal Rome. 
ND foithful who just missed the parade: former Vice-Pres. Francis T. McGuire and wife, parents of Michael McGuire ex *68 and Patricia SMC-ND '67. Tom Cassidy, Jan Santidi, Dennis Herer, Rev. Kenneth Sullivan OP chap of ND Club Cinci, Al DeCrane and daughter of 
Paul Fisher. 
Papal point: Paul VI '60 holds public audiences each Wednesday forenoon and appears at his window each Sunday noon. 
Vince McAfoon '34 
SAN DIEGO, CALIF. Rsrty-one members and guests were paif of O turn-away crowd of over 14,000 fans who witnessed the Mar. 1 basketball game between the San Diego Rockets and the Los Angeles Lakers at San Diego's International Sports Arena. Classen Gromm arranged the event for the club. Mar. 7, a dinner meeting of San Diego SUMMA drive volunteers was held at the Town and Country Restaurant. Chairman Don Yecfcef presided and the guest speaker was Front; Kelly of the ND Foundation. More than 25 members attended and all were impressed by Frank's d/namic approach to the problems of the University. 
Classen Gromm *63L 
UTAH Apr. 14 was the dote and the Ft. Douglas Hidden Valley Country Club in Salt Lake City was the place for Universal ND Night. It was the social highlight of the club year and we were most fortunate to hove as our campus guest Jim Cooney, Alumni Secretary. March saw the departure from Utah of our Club Chaplain, Father "Captain" Bernard P. Foley CSC '52. Father Foley has been reassigned to duty with the Air Force in Thailand. We oil hated to see Father leave, but wish him every success in his priestly duties in Southeast Asia. Other losses to the Club include: Micftaef "Russ" Bonocci to Stamford, Conn.; Or. Andrew 
J. Cross to Cncinnati, Ohio; Copt. David loeb to Suffolk County AFB, NY; John E. Moron to 
Washington, D.C (Department of Labor, no 
less!); Harold A. Siege! to Rosemont, Pa., and 
Copt. Timothy Sulfivon, MD. These people will 
all be missed by the remaining Utah club 
members. We wish them luck in their new 
locales, and the hope for continued participation 
in their respective ND clubs. 
All is not "lost," however, as we are 
pleased to welcome Major Charles Bryan Ross, 
¥rho arrived in the land of Zion from Ft. Ord, 
Monterey, Calif. 
Cftvcl; Bennett '55 
VIRGINIA Our Apr. 7 Universal ND Night featured assist, coach Tom Pagno as the guest speaker. The occasion held ot the Executive Club was the most elaborate ever planned by the ND Club. In addition to our fine speaker, a "Man of the Year" award was presented to Fronk Soden of radio station WRNL. Frank has been on asset to the community ever since his migration to Richmond from hJew Jersey more than a decade ago. His selection was a unanimous choice and certainly one of the most deserving awards the ND club has ever presented. Frank Soden has truly been selfless in his involvement with the metropolitan Richmond community. The Club welcomed new member John fCfefer recently. John transferred into our area and is class of 1959. He is a resident engineer with 0 local concern deoling with sewer control and water pollution. 
Franic Corpm "62 

WASHINGTON, D.C. The Club hosted the Alumni Seminar, "Catholic Education—The End or a New Beginning?" Mar. 4. Fathers McCluskey and Bartell were very well received as each presented a very interesting and educotional paper on the methods and financial aspects of Catholic schools. 
March 17 the Club had its annual St. 
Patrick's Day Party attended by 115 Alumni 
and guests. We were entertained by the Docs 
of Dixieland, a group of Navy doctors stationed 
at the Naval Medical Center in Belhesda, 
who are as good os any professional group 
around. The highlight of the evening was the 
Club elections. The victors were: 
President, Jim Gammon '56; Vice-President, Pete Cannon '56; Treasurer, Carl "Buz" Van Hecke '61; Board of Governors, Nordy Hoffman "33, Joe Clancy '53. 

In the vote for Secretary, we had a tie between Ron lynch and Harry Dutko, both members of the Class of '56. This tie has not been resolved as of yet. 
Kaymond Kaedy 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Club members enioyed talks by Rev. James T. Burtchoell, Chairman of the Theology Dept., Kenneth A. Featherstone, Prof of Architecture, and Rene Torrodo, student, during Universal ND Night. The dinner and cocktail hour were held at the Sherwood Inn in Seattle Apr. 8. Dennis Ryan, club treos., was the chairman for the night's activities. 
Jim Sheahan, a student at ND from Bellevue, will travel to Chile this summer for CILA. The Club will moke a donation to help finance CILA's operational costs. The Club will also contribute to the current drive for St. Edward's Seminary sponsored by the "Committee of 1000." 
Dick Niemer, Jeff Koch, John Gigfiardini and 

Tom May are hard at work recruiting prospective fighting Irish for the freshman class of 1969. They can always use helpl 
Running for office of director are Seattle, Position No. 1, Ollie Ffor and Dick Niemer; Seattle, Position No. 3, Jim Lyons and Dick Regan; At large. Position No. 5, Jim Doiley and Mike Herb. 
May the best politician winl 
Bill Herber 

1968 ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
More Give Less in ^es 
HIGHLIGHTING the 1968 Notre Dame 
Annual Fund was a total of 14,182 
individual contributions, the largest 
ever for any year in the history of 
Notre Dame philanthropy. The num­
ber of contributors was 726 more than 
in 1967. 
Now in its 26th year, the Fund was endowed by 49 percent of the University's alumni. Cash gifts amounted to $1,759,558.49, an increase of $180,000 over last year. Twenty-seven Alumni Clubs contributed more than $32,000 and gifts in kind totaled more than $12,000. Additional gifts bring the grand total to $1,866,722.51, some $200,000 less than in 1967. 
Top class participation honors were copped by the Men of '28 with 65 percent of the membership contribut­ing. Class Agent Pat Canny gener­ated a heavy response by enclosing $1 bills in his December letter to classmates asking them to add to it. The Class of '50 was the most gen­erous doUarwise with a total exceed­ing $89,800 while the largest number of contributors came from the Class of '49 with 575 responders. 
Four new Class Agfents made the scene this year. Harold Welch '24 is replacing Ed Cantwell, Stephen Gra­licker is taking Bill Scanlon's post for the Class of '42 while Mike Mc­Carthy replaces Kevin Hart in the '63 group and Tom Sullivan takes the reins from Barry McNamara for the Class of '66. 

Pitgritnage 
THE 52nd anniversary of the Fatima apparitions will be only one of the highlights of the Sacred Shrine Pil­grimage to Europe and the Holy Land that Rev. John Wilson CSC '32 will direct this fall. Departing from New York on Oct. 11 tour members will visit Lisbon, Fatima, Rome, Ath­ens, Greek Islands, Istanbul, Izmir, Ephesus, Tel Aviv, Nazareth, Jeru­salem, Bethlehem, Geneva, and return to New York on Nov. 1. 
Further information can be ob­tained by writing Father Wilson at Notre Dame. 
Kmmitr Clou 
•/ Cow 
ilAiiBai r ttHmlimg 87 31.0 25 32.0 28 25.0 35 25.7 42 30.9 35 48.5 35 48.5 52 51.9 48 47.9 38 28.9 56 28.5 60 40.0 117 53.8 137 37.9 144 45.8 205 47.3 171 45.6 262 48.1 330 64.5 333 48.9 355 44.7 374 44.1 377 43.5 418 41.3 434 45.8 425 40.0 341 39.2 349 39.5 401 42.6 424 43.4 495 47.1 460 45.6 447 44.3 461 48.2 480 53.9 284 45.7 240 43.3 519 46.2 800 51.1 1,053 54.6 879 54.6 681 54.5 827 52.7 752 59.3 764 51.9 771 58.2 819 58.7 889 53.5 952 55.1 930 53.8 938 53.9 901 54.0 971 50.3 1,018 42.8 1,067 49.3 1,071 50.0 1,053 43.2 1,080 36.8 1,179 36.9 
28,919 49.0 
Clou Atnt 

1910 & before—Stephen H. Hcrr 1911—Colonel R. Otto Probst 1912—Richard J. Monroe 1913— 1914—W. Poyntelle Downing 1915—Albert A. Kuhle 1916—C. Patrick Maloney 1917—Frederick L. Mahaffey (dec.) 1918—John A. Lemmer 1919—Louis J. Finske 1920—John T. Balfe 1921—Raymond J. Schubmchl 1922—Frank B. Bloemer, Jr. 1923—Joseph J. Casasanta, Sr. (dec.) 1924—Edward G. Cantwell 1925—Henry C. Wurzcr 1926—Malcolm F. Knaus 1927—WiUiam J. Corbett, Jr. 1928—J. Patrick Canny (•) 1929—Karl E. Martersteck 1930—John J. Elder 1931—John F. Saunders 1932—Prof. Francis J. O'Malley 1933—Lucien S. Kempf 1934—Patrick J. Carroll 1935—Paul A. Fergus 1936—Francis L. Layden 1937—Robert M. Siegfried 1938—Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr. 1939—James N. Motschall 1940—Walter L. Fleming, Jr. 1941—William E. Cotter, Jr. 1942—Stephen G. Graliker 
1943—Oliver H. Hunter 1944—John W. Anhut 1945—Joseph M. Haggar, Jr. 1946—H. B. Surkamp 1947—Joseph M. Byrne, III 1948—James L. Ferstel 1949—Peter J. Keman, Jr. (•) 1950—Gus Cifelli (•) 1951—Martin R. O'Connor 1952—William V. Cuddy 1953—Joseph L. Pagliari 1954—Thomas J. Nessinger 1955—George H. Shelton 1956—John F. Fannon 1957—James A. Morse 1958—Alfred J. Weinsheimer, Jr. 1959—Frank R. Reynolds, Jr. 1960—D. Jerry McGlynn 1961—Patrick J. Hart, Jr. 1962—John C. Dearie 1963—Kevin G. Hart 1964—David W. Ellis 1965—John J. Gearen 1966—Thos. J. Sullivan 
1967—Patrick J. Nash 
1968—James L. Smithberger Gift in Kind Honorary Alumni Notre Dame Clubs 
Anoul Com­
tribuui 

$ 64,624.10-^­4^2.00— 68,843.97— 435.00— 5,840.92-1­4,178.10-F 21,455.77— 39,866.34— 5,853.284­1,570.00-f­6,738.38— 18,553.28-f­25,864.66-f­6,973.75— 12,356.66+ 
9,498.05— 34,533.61+ 18,030.91+ 83,346.07+ 25,964.91+ 18,866.13— 69,480.21+ 14,797.75— 46,297.00+ 71,718.95+ 37,850.41+ 11,978.84+ 57,956.37+ 24,535.25— 42,432.33+ 65,651.19— 27,278.49+ 29,082.20+ 47,684.43+ 59,253.07+ 11,287.24— 
6,239.50+ 23,656.02+ 43,895.37+ 66,907.06— 89,827.24+ 29,465.00+ 33,154.55+ 39,576.21+ 24,949.44+ 40,111.46+ 41,914.14— 20,784.82+ 25,394.38+ 28,125.67+ 16,658.97+ 19,551.83+ 13,825.00+ 11,311.56+ 13,643.50+ 12,473.77+ 
8,221.60+ 6,938.00— 7,222.60 
12,494.44 62,592.84 32,126.74 
SumitT of Cow 
mmtoTS 
27 8— 7— 9— 
13— 17+ 17— 27— 23— 11— 16— 24— 63— 52— 66+ 97+ 78— 
126+ 213+ 163+ 159+ 165+ 164— 173— 199+ 170— 134— 138+ 171— 184— 233— 210— 198+ 222— 259+ 130— 104— 240— 409+ 575+ 480+ 371— 436+ 446+ 397+ 
449— 481+ 476+ 525+ 501+ 506+ 487+ 489— 436— 526+ 536+ 455+ 397+ 435 
17 15 27 

Total $1,822,151.33 14,182 
Same as 1967 
-\- Increase over 1967 
— Decrease from 1967 
•
 1950 Laziest Amount 

•
 1949 Most Contributors 

•
 1928 Largest Percent of Class Contributors 


ALUMNI QlfHSip, ALU3gNISPEAK ASK 


KeepTrack of the Pack Votume 2 
by James D. Cooney 
Ahmni Secretary 

A s INDICATED in our last message, the Alumni Association shall soon have its first National Alumni Direc­tory. Rockwell F. Clancy Company of Chicago has been commissioned to produce it. In the past week, 43,000 Alumni received the first mailing (with questionnaire) regarding this eflFort. One of the crucial questions raised before final negotiations en­sued was: How many Alumni will actually find such a directory useful? Notre Dame men (and women) have enjoyed through the years a rather consistent communication and infor­mation network . . . the Aliunni Club structure. The directory is not en­visioned as a replacement of that sys­tem . . . but, rather as an auxiliary to it. Other Association programs, the Beunions, Class news, and impor­tantly the ALUMNUS and Alumni Senate, have contributed to the efficacy of communications. The national di­rectory, we feel, can tie together this multiple effort in a valuable way .. . bringing fellow Alumni a dial tone or postmark closer. 
The task of producing such a di­rectory is monumental, as are the costs to be absorbed by the Clancy Company .. . with some profit of 
coui-se accruing to them. However, the Company has entered into a special arrangement with Notre Dame which will enable Alumni to purchase the di­rectory on a first-oifer basis much more conveniently than plans offered other institutions. Alumni responding to the first questionnaire (with $10.00 check) will be able to purchase the directory at that special price. Pur­chases after the first offer will cost nearly twice that amount. Our mo­tivation in requesting the unprece­dented $10.00 offering is based upon the importance of substantial usage. A national directory utilized by a fragment of the potential subscribers is a project frustrated from the start. We feel that long and congenial ne­gotiations with the Clancy Company have produced a program which can make the directory available to all Alumni at a minimum cost. But ini­tial response is required. 
The directory, as we've pointed out in the previous ALUMNUS issue will be a complete compilation of Alumni names, home and business addresses and phone numbers, occupations, class years, majors and degrees. It will be compiled alphabetically on a state-by­state basis. Cross-section class rosters will be included. The directory will in­clude information on the Admissions program, with application procedures outlined, Placement information, oflB­cers of the University as well as offi­cers of instruction. Association pro­grams and policies, a history of the University, long-range athletic sched­ules, etc. 
Whether you ultimately decide to purchase the directory or not, your listing therein is gratis. The Associa­tion and the University have enjoyed phenomenal response from Alumni to a vast nimiber of projects and ap­peals. The current appeal has indi­vidual value. We're sure the response will be no less enthusiastic. 
TMH STATEMENT 
Although I generally support Fr. Hesburgh's statement of policy, I feel that much of the press and your lead article in the March ALUMNUS failed to focus on the most significant part of that letter. Fr. Hesburgh con­tinually used the words "community" and "communication" to describe Notre Dame and the relationship between administrators, faculty, and students. These are not new words in the University vocabulary, but too often they were mere platitudes used by well-intentioned speakers at grad­uation exercises to picture the ideal rather than the reality of higher ed­ucation. A university must be more than an institution where faculty pontificate on a variety of minutiae and administrators issue manifestoes in loco parentis. It should be a community of scholars made up of three elements: faculty, students, and administrators. Each recognizes the existence and integrity of the other two and is willing to establish and maintain channels of communication that will weld the three into a true community. 
A fundamental cause of the dis­turbances at universities stems from the general unwillingness of admin­istrators and faculty to listen to, and consult with the students in the early stages of decision making and then to give them a material role in the final outcome. I don't mean decisions such as having parties after football games or even having women in rooms after 6 P.M.—these as a mat­ter of course should be decided by students, just as the faculty and ad­ministrators determine their own social activities. More important questions, such as allowing Dow Chemical to recruit on campus or establishing a Black Studies program should be considered and resolved by bringing all elements of the com­

munity into the process. 
Fr. Hesburgh's commitment to the 
reality of a community at Notre 
Dame is far more important for the 
future than his methods of law en­
forcement. It is unfortunate that 
most people applauded his rather 
rigid policy for dealing with stu­
dents who break "the duly constituted 
laws of the University," instead of 
acknowledging his moral commitment 
to community methods for formulat­
ing those laws. 
U/g David W. BucWey USNR '67 
U.S. Novo/ Acodemy Annapo/i's, Mcf. 

As a university professor I am shocked; as an alumnus embarrassed; and as a Christian dismayed at Fr. Hesburgh's recent edict relevant to disruptive campus demonstrations. The pronouncement has tarnished the slight strides which Notre Dame had taken toward acquiring an intellectual (as opposed to authoritarian) reputa­tion among non-Catholic scholars. Furthermore, most professors know— as I am sure Fr. Hesburgh does—^that studies have shown that the demon­strators are generally among the best-informed students on campuses and have higher intelligence scores than the overall student bodies. 
As an alumnus I have been re­peatedly mortified by having friends and colleagues ask me if it was "that authoritarian when you were there." 
As a Christian I am stunned. The New Testament was unequivocal about killing (as Christ made clear in the Garden). Christ also showed that He could be a very good revolu­tionary for the cause of social justice even if ultimately it cost Him His life. Christ was certainly not a member of the establishment and continually railed against it. 
What the University's policy has done, is to set forth an implicit judg­ment that the Vietnam war and killing is, or can be, justified and to support this position. When the Uni­versity provides academic credit for an EOTC program and opens its doors to the war machine (Dow, CIA, De­fense, etc.) for the recruitment of personnel, an explicit judgment has been made to cooperate with the war machine and this judgment is abso­lutely irrelevant to academic freedom. 
The issue is falsely joined if it is argued whether or not the University should give people the freedom of noncooperation with the war ma­chine. The real issue is whether the University should facilitate or not facilitate the work of the war ma­chine (or any other interest). 
So what is the solution if not authoritarian suspension—expulsion­arrest? First, I would sug^gest that a difference should be drawn between disruption of true educational fimc­tions of the University and disruption of administrative policy decisions. For disruption of the former, suspen­sion might well be justified until such time as a student appreciates the nature of a university as a forum of ideas—popular as well as unpopular. For disruption of the latter, however, I think that the administration first has an obligation to ascertain that its policy is felt to be in the best inter­ests of the academic community. The decision should be based upon what the majority of the interested parties desire. And what happens if students disrupt university policy, WHICH HAS BEEN RATIFIED by a majority of the interested parties? First, I doubt that there would be 
much disruption although there, no doubt, would be a degree of picketing, etc. Where disruption of majority policy nevertheless occurs, it should be handled as a police matter, not as a university matter. Expulsion (or even susupension) from a community of scholars hardly seems justified as a result of disruption of bureaucratic policies (as opposed to true university functions). Ebcpnlsion for policy op­position, even if illicit, would only serve to destroy any claim Notre Dame might make in the fntore to be truly catholic 
Donicf J. KoKiig '62 1809 Ctmland Omlasloa, III. 61920 

PORNOGRAPHY 
Mr. Conklin has made suggestions for the conduct of a pornography con­ference^ if another is held. Fd like to add a suggestion to his list. Why not invite a theologian to the con­ference? Someone should emphasize the instruction we may obtain from the Church, especially frtHn Scripture. St. Paul, for example, had much to say about sexual morality. The Church Fathers, at least as far back as St. Basil the Great, have written on the proper use of literature. And lest anyone charge that these views are out of date, he might ask whether the pagan idolatry of the first cen­tury isn't closely related to the use of pornography today. 
William M. Fairlty Otporfment of Gaofogy Noln Dam; fnd. 46SS6 

BACK PAT 
I would like to commend you on the new maturity of the magazine and, I assume, the University. Please don't be intimidated by our fellow alumni who are long on righteousness and short on charity. Please do con­tinue printing their letters accusing Notre Dame of being "unpatriotic, perverted, corrupt (and) hereticaL" G«arg« G. Sh*/don '58 1448 PriiK»ton St. Santa Monica, Caiif. 

if, ,. Mr.Francis P. Clark M --J HJ^^^-. Microfilming & Photo. Lab 
•yS, j^ Memorial Library f'i>!^:=fe>^-Notre Dame, Ind. 46555 
'•'•••lllllll 
*>lillllll 


Ki^iuiiiit mil l 



Down the Home Stretch! 
It's been an active year on cam])us and this scholar feels the need for spring-practice tion. Only a short time remains for the '""" «J^"•" ^-_ -1 o i"«--i."-e 111 me art of summer relaxa­
in th ­

.. „ ^..vi I mill! ic'iiiains 101-the men of 'G9 to exchangee books for mortarboai-ds and the rest of the student
body to ready themselves for the good old summertime. 
: 
r. 


