The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Football Banquet 
(Page 3) 

Haley in New Position 
{Page 5) 

University Affairs 
(Page 6) 


"The Best Years of My Life" 
(Page 7) 

Biology Building, With Infirmary at Left 

VoL 19 FEBRUARY, 1941 No. 4 
FUND FOUNDS FATHER SHEA. '04, SCHOLARSHIP 
Rev. Michael J. Shea, '04 

B
Y THE generous gift of $2,500 from Mr. and Mrs. John L. Harrigan, Hblljrwood, California, a fund has been established for the perpetuation of the memory of the late Eev. Michael J. Shea, '04, co-author of "The Victory March." 
Income from the Fund is to be used for "a deserving engineering student, at the discretion of the President of the University." 
The gift preserves at Notre Dame the same generous results of Father Shea's life that were evident from his own activities while he lived. "The Victory March" is in itself a monument, carved almost unconsciously by his own hand and given to Notre Dame with no thought of its value in immortalizing its author. And it is a splendid tribute that this further gift reflects an appreciation of Father Shea and his permanent place in the life of Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harrigan, in addition to their previous status as friends of Notre Dame, and their present status as benefactors, are possessed of a third and happy status as parents of a Notre Dame man, John L. Jr., a Sophomore this year in the College of Engineering. 

CIFT/ 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
Prom Mr. and Mrs. John L. Harrigan, Hollyivood, California, for establishment of The Father Michael J. Shea Mevwrial Scholarshij), in honor of the late composer of the "Notre Dame Victory March" $2,500.00 From Mr. William E. Cotter, '13, New York City, for the Lounge of the Kockne Manorial. Bronze statue of Grecian gladiator, in memory of the Rev. Michael J. Shea, '04. Anonymous, for the Thomas J. McKeon Memorial Fund-500.00 In memory of Mr. and Mrs. Francis E. Schneider, for the Julius A. Nieuwiand Memorial Foiindation 250.00 From Dr. Stanley A. Clark, South Bend, for the Student Relief Fund ...; 150.00 Anonymous, for the Student Relief Fund. 50.00 
For the KOCKNE MEMORIAL from Sept. 27, 1940, to Jan. 28, 1941: 
Anonymous, Notre Dame, Ind...  10.40  
Bruce Corry, Saginaw, Mich...  0.50  
Miss Dottie Kiefer, Los Angeles..  1.00  
Frank Kiley, Rochester, N. Y..  25.00  
Pat O'Brien, Los Angeles..  198.00  
Charles and James Stark, Des Moines, Iowa  1.00  
Ennin E. Reichert, '27, Long Prairie, Minn...  2.00  
Total  .„  ?  237.90  
Previous  Total  262,116.58  
(Sig.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C,  
President.  Grand Total  ..$262,354.48  

^ 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This nucasine is published monthly froo October to June, inclusive (except Junair) , \n Cha Uahranitr ol Notan Duac, 
Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October I, 1939. at Uie FmttifflM, Mote* TIeM. TaJsns. mdir the 
act of Ausost 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Coondl and of the National Ostholte Ahnani IWsntion. 
JAMES E . ARMsntoNc. 75. EAilor; WOUAM R. DOOLEY. '26. AfanafSnf E£lor 
Vol. 19 FEBRUARY. 1941 No. 4 
The 1940 Football Banquet 
The Twenty-First Annual Civic Testi­monial Banquet to the coaches and foot­ball team of the University was held on Monday, Dec. 16, in the Dining Halls of the University, under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
That's a stock lead, but it contains a wealth of the iinest implications. To Louis Bruggner, '23, president of the Club, and his band of heroes, the com­mittee: Frank Coughlin, '21, general chairman; E. M. Moore, '20, program; Jack Shively, '31, tickets; Art Diedrich, '23, seating; Jerry Hoar, '21, reception; Floyd Searer, '28, finances; Harold Web­er, '22, arrangements; Clarence Harding, '25, publicity, and to their sub-committee­men, the ALuaiNUS oifers the first laur­els. This is the interference, behind which annually, the banquet carries the ball, winding up with a generous con­tribution to the spirit of Notre Dame and the scholarship fund of the Club. 

For Team and Coaches 
Attendance of guests this year was tempered to permit the banquet to throw the spotlight back to its original objec­tive, the team and the coaches. But the presence of Eddie Anderson and Lynn Waldorf, the coaches of Iowa and North­western, as well as Capt. Wood and Ma­jor Larson, Army and Navy, gave more than customary emphasis to the ability of Notre Dame to give it and take it in the interesting phase of life with which the banquet deals. 
All spoke, supplemented by an im­posing speakers list of Hev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Mayor J. I. Pavey of South Bend, Ray Eichenlaub, Harry Stuhldreher, Jack Ledden, Marvin Mc­Carthy, Warren Bro\vn, Jimmy Gallag­her, Ed Cochrane, Milt Piepul, Elmer 

Fr. O'Donnell Speab, Qarifying Several 
Issues; Banquet Given Back to Boys; 
Full House Enjoys 21st Testimonail 
Layden, and the speaker whom the ALUMNUS will quote in part, the presi­dent of the University, Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C. 
Toastmaster was Pat O'Malley, radio entertainer. 

Father O'Donnell's Comment 

The team and the coaching staff were generally praised, but in the words of Father O'Donnell, quoted in part here­with, was contained the most significant contribution to the banquet of 1940 in which alumni generally will be inter­ested: 
"What happened to Notre Dame? This question seemed to be uppermost in the minds of our followers since November. I can't answer it. I couldn't even begin to suggest an answer. Perhaps the coach­es can. Perhaps the boys can. But one thing is certain: it was not due to lack of material, as a few well-intentioned writers seemed to believe. I resented the statement at the time, and I publicly resent it now. The reason is that it is a reflection on these fine boys in front of me. It must have cut them to the quick to read such statements, when they were giving the best that was in them, by cooperating with their instructors in carrying on Notre Dame's tradition of hard, clean football. I stand here to de­fend them against such an implication, and I salute them as I have saluted teams in the .past, as true representatives of the University, who to the best of their ability carried our banner on the field of play, and off the field, as valiant sons of Notre Dame. 
"They will always be remembered for such, and will be held in the highest regard by their president, faculty, coach­es and fellow students, as a team worthy of Notre Dame. 
"The Faculty Board, under the presi­dent, is the competent authority at the University in all matters relating to intercollegiate athletics. In my judgment, it has done its work extremely weU. Its guiding policy has always been what is best for the general good of the Univer­sity, and varsity sports in particular. It 
. is always ready to accept constructive crticism from those in a position to give it. It disregards, however, wild rumor and jittery suggestion, although it rec­ognizes the extraordinary support given our varsity teams by countless millions, and is grateful for such. So. as in the past, it will act only when such action is deemed imperative for- the best inter­ests of the University. 

Regardins Elmer Layden 

"Perhaps no one is better acquainted with the policy of the Faculty Board than Elmer Layden himself. He receives his instructions and attempts to carry 
"them out faithfully, both on and off the gridiron. His influence for good is wide­spread. So, Elmer, as long as you adhere to the Board's instructionSj^and direct our varsity teams in playing the tradi­tional brand of Notre Dame football, you can rest assured that your tenure here is not in jeopardy. Moreover, a season resulting in seven victories and two de­feats, combined with the record of past seasons, is a splendid tribute to your ability and that of your associates. All we ask is that, in the future, our teams play smart football, characterized by hard blocking and effective tackling, with that inimitable spirit so typical of Notre Dame. Do this, and you won't have to worry; do this and the Faculty Board and the president will always support you. We don't expect the impossible season after season." 
The NotreDame Alumnus 
FATHER CONNOR HAS GOLDEN JUBILEE 
At the dinner honoring: Father Connor were, left to risht. Father Consinean, sapetior greneral; Father Connor, and Father Steiner, provinciaL 
Two hundred and fifty members of the Congregation of Holy Cross as­sembled in the Notre Dame Dining Halls on Dec. 19 to honor Rev. William *R. Connor, C.S.C, who was celebrating the golden anniversary of ordination to the priesthood. He is 76 years of age. 
Father Connor is still active as chap­lain of St. Mary's College and has spent his entire religious life within two miles of Sacred Heart church on the Notre Dame campus, where he received holy orders in 1890. 
During most of this time he has been the Community authority on church rubrics aiid he is regarded as one of the best informed authorities on the ritual pageantry of the Catholic church. His advice frequently is sought by clergy­men in all parts of the country. 
As master of ceremonies. Father Con­nor had directed the religious ceremon­ies coincident to the ordination of most of the priests who assembled to honor him. 
For a quarter of a century, until re­lieved in 1920, he served as master of novices, then for a time was superior of the Community House, and now for more than a decade has been in his present post at St. Mary's. 
The dinner was arranged by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, provincial. Among other attending were Very Rev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C, superior gen­eral of the Congregation, who delivered the felicitations of the entire Commun­ity, and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
Father Connor celebrated his golden anniversary Mass on Dec. 21. The ser­mon for the occasion was preached by Rev. Richard J. CoUentine, C.S.C, su­perior of the Mission Band. 

BEAMER AHORNEy GENERAL 

George N. Beamer, '29, Democrat of South Bend, is the new attorney general of Indiana, appointed by Governor Henry F. Schricker. George was sworn into office on Jan. 15. 
George broke into politics when, on July 1, 1933, he was appointed South Bend city judge by the then Governor, Paul V. McNutt, LL.D. '33, to fill a va­cancy caused by the resignation of Al 
W. Hosinski, '16, South Bend, who had been appointed United States marshal for the northern Indiana district. Serv­ing as judge until Dec. 31, 1934, George retired to private life for two years. He was elected county prosecutor in 1936 and, in 1938, ran, unsuccessfully, against Robert A. Grant, '28, for elec­tion as United States representative. He was appointed city attorney, however, and served in that post from Jan. 1, 1939, until his recent appointment. 
Peter A. BeczWewicz, ex. '19, a Democrat, also of South Bend, was named as a member of the state board of tax commissioners by Gov. Schrick­er at the same time that George Beam­er was appointed attorney general. Mr. Beczkiewicz had, on Dec. 31, finished a four-year term as treasurer of St. Joseph County and had previously been Portage County trustee for four years. He has been active in St. Joseph County politics for many years. 
C. S. C. Generalate  
Moved  
Washinsion, D. C.  
New Headquarters  
The Generalate  of the  Congregation  
of Holy Cross, situated for the last 35  
years  at  Notre Dame,  was  transferred  
in January to Washington, D. C, Very  
Rev. Albert  F. Cousineau,  C.S.C,  su­ 
perior general, announced.  
"Our  location  in  Washington  meets  
our needs," Father Cousineau said. "We  
will live in  a  section of the city adja­ 
cent to many other religious communi­ 
ties grouped  around  the  Catholic Uni­ 
versity.  Moreover,  Washington  is  the  
residence of the apostolic delegate."  
The  Congregation  of  Holy  Cross  
numbers  in  all  about  1,400  ordained  
priests and professed  brothers who, in  
addition  to  their  activities  in  Canada,  
France, and India, conduct schools, col­ 
leges and  parishes in  11 dioceses  and  
archdioceses of the United States. These  
include the University of Notre Dame,  
the  University  of  Portland,  Ore.,  and  
St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas.  
Nine  officials  of  the  order  moved  
to the new Washington headquarters at  j  
150 Rhode Island avenue, N.E., includ­ 
ing Father Cousineau, Rev. William  J.  
Doheny, C.S.C,  first  assistant  superior  
general;  Rev.  Alfred  Charron,  C.S.C,  
second assistant and general  secretary;  
Brother Ephrem, C.S.C, third assistant;  
Brother Adhemar, C.S.C, fourth assist­ 
ant;  Brother  Bernard,  C.S.C,  general  
treasurer and steward; Rev. Henri Ber­ 
geron, C.S.C, general archivist; Brother  
De Paul, C.S.C, private secretary to the  ^  
superior general; and Brother Gerinus,  1  
C.S.C, supernumerary.  \  
The  generalate  of  the  Congregation  
was situated at Le Mans, France, from  
the founding  of the order in  1837 by  
Very  Rev.  Basil  Moreau,  C.S.C,  first  
superior  general,  until  1880.  In  that  
year Very Rev. Edward  Sorin,  C.S.C,  
founder  of  the  University  of  Notre  
Dame, was elected superior general and  
the  general  house  was  transferred  to  
Notre Dame.  
Upon  Father  Sorin's  death  in  1893  
Very Rev. Gilbert Francais, C.S.C, suc­ 
ceeded  and  once  more  the  generalate  
was located in France, at Neuilly, a sub­ 
urb of Paris. In 1905, however. Father  
Francais came to Notre Dame where he  
established his headquarters. Very Rev.  
James W. Donahue, C.S.C, became  su­ 
perior general in 1926 and he was suc­ 
ceeded by Father Cousineau in 1938.  

Th e  Notr e  Dam e  Alumnu s  
Haley Directs Public Relations  Pamphlet Project Is  
Jones Named Business  Planned  

Manager 
iII Effective in January, J. Arthur Haley,  '26, since 1926 business manager of  athletics of the University, has become  director of public relations for Notre Dame.  
Notre Dame's development has been remarkably rapid, as alumni •well know.  

J. Arthur Haley 

In the pressure of immediate problems, 
many opportunities have been of neces­
sity neglected. 
With the approach of the Centennial and the practical survey of the history of the University which naturally ac­companies this great event, the magni­tude of these opportunities has as­sumed growing scope. 
To prevent further neglect, and to round out further development of the University in the many fields that such development involves, is, primarily, the purpose of Mr. Haley's new assignment. It is neither the general publicity field, handled by Thomas J. Barry, '25, nor athletic publicity, directed by Joseph 
S. Petritz, '32, both of whom continue in their present capacities. 
Rather, the new post is concerned with deriving the fullest realization of the University's opportunities through the cooperation and the coordination of all those individuals and agencies who may be able to contribute to such de­velopment. Some of these will be within the University, — the administration, faculty, students and alumni, the four pillars upon which all educational in­stitutions must rest. Others will be out­side the University, — those many friends made in the course of the con­
 of Athletics 
tacts established by the men and the works of Notre Dame. 
It is a happy circumstance, the ALUM­NUS believes, that Mr. Haley is an alum­nus of Notre Dame, Class of 1926; that he brings to his new post a fine record in one of the great public 
Herbert E. Jones 

relations fields the University has en­joyed — athletics. He was at Notre Dame first in the historic S.A.T.C. year of 1917-18, leaving to pursue a business career for five years before returning to follow the course leading to his 
B.C.S. A member of the Glee Club and the famous Varsity Four, the new direc­tor of public relations has practically only that to live down. Mr. Haley is married, with four children. 
Another happy circumstance, the iVLUMNUS supports, is the succession to the duties of business manager of ath-
CENTENNIAL OBSERVANCE 
The observance of the Univer­sity's Centennial will open at the Commencement of 1942 and will close at the Commencement of 1943, according to a recent an­nouncement by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. The intervening year, according to tentative plans, will be marked by an interrelated ser­ies of events representative of the school's activities in many fields. 
An article, outlining plans for the Centennial as they are so far developed, will be a feature of the March ALUMNUS. 
Qubs Aslced To Participate 

Notre Dame Clubs have been asked by the Alumni OflSce to cooperate with the Student Commission on Decent Lit­erature by presenting to each Catholic High School library in the Club jurisdic­tion the special collection of 20 pam­phlets selected for high school reading by the Student Committee. 
The 20 pamphlets comprise a unit costing two dollars. The titles indicate, in a few random examples, the variety of the selection — "Youth Says These Are Good Manners;" "How to Pick A Successful Career;" "A Catechisin of Communism;" "What About The Mod­em Boy?;" "No Smut," the pampMet prepared at Notre Dame; "What of Dirty Stories?;" "Call to Catholic Ac­tion," and a group of other pamphlets selected from the various splendid sources which are producing a wealth of fine Catholic literature. 
It is the old principle of a good of­fense being the best defense. Individual alumni, in communities with.Catohlic or public high schools which would wel­come these pamphlets, are urged to take the initiative by ordering the collection either through the Alumni Office, or the Student Commission for Decent Litera­ture, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The project, the Alumni Ofiice be­lieves, has many merits, and deserves the support of the Clubs and individual alumni. 
letics of Herbert E. Jones, '27. Mr. Jones, like Mr. Haley, is an alumnus, compounding that happy state by two years as secretary to the late Rev. James Bums, C.S.C, then president of the University, before beginning his college work. 
Having worked since graduation with Mr. Haley, in the business offices of the Athletic Association, Mr. Jones' new post promises to continue the valuable work of that department without the ordinary interruption that accompanies similar change of management. 
Youngest of three N.D. brothers — Jerrj', '22, and Willard, '25, — Mr. Jones is also married, the father of two prospects for Notre Dame, and two daughters. 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
FATHER O'TOOLE APPOINTED 
Rev. Chiistopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C, '29, on Dec. 17 was named president of Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., to succeed Rev. William J. Doheny, 
C.S.C. Father Doheny was made assist­ant superior general of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross several months ago. 
Father O'Toole was ordained to the priesthood in 1933 and joined the Notre Dame faculty as professor of phi­losophy after spending a year at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. He pursued gi-aduate studies in the Univer­sity of Louvain in Belgium, from 1936 to 1939, but was forced to return to the States at the outbreak of'war. 
After the death of Rev. Fi-ancis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, last spring. Father O'Toole became master of ceremonies for Universitj' religious functions and last August was also named superior of Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. 
Succeeding Father O'Toole as supe­rior of Holy Cross Seminarj' was Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C, B.S.E.E., '33, who had been assistant prefect of reli­gion for several years. Rev. Paul Beich­ner, C.S.C, A.B. '35, is Father Grimm's successor as assistant prefect of reli­gion. 
Practical results of long, tedious hours in the experimental laboratory^ were brought home to Notre Dame re­cently when 50 United States soldiers and officers operating a fleet of 25 army ordnance trucks bivouacked in the Rockne Memorial. The trucks were equipped with tires made of synthetic rubber which is being tested for pos­sible use in case our supply from out­side sources is cut off by the war. Basic research on the constituent parts, of neoprene, commercial name for the new rubber composition, was done in Notre Dame chemical laboratories by the late Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C. The army men will test the tires over a 10,­000 mile tour under all conditions of weather and terrain. 
The following Community members attended conventions of learned soci­eties within the holiday period: Rev. John Bednar, C.S.C, Catholic Art As­sociation, Evanston, HI.; Rev. John Burke, C.S.C, American Economics As­sociation, New Orleans; Rev. James Fogarty, C.S.C, American Political Sci­ence Association, Chicago; Rev. Leo Gorman, C.S.C, American School for Classical Languages, Baltimore; Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, American Historical Association, New York City; Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, American Medieval Academy, New York Cily; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, American Catholic Philosophical Association, De­troit. 

CHEMICAL ENGINEERING BLDG. 
Rapid growth of enrollment in the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame to more than twice the 1930 registration figure has necessi­tated the use of the entire facilities of the new wing on Chemistry Hall for the chemical engineers. 
The addition, which was erected dur­ing the summer and is known as the Chemical Engineering building, is al­ready occupied. 
The three-story addition is connected with Chemistry Hall by an entrance at each floor. The basement contains 4,500 square feet of Roar space and provides two offices, a fuel analysis lab­oratory, research laboratory, service shop and unit operations laboratory. The first floor provides a research lab­oratory, thesis laboratory, an instru­ment storage room, an office and class­room and the upper portion of the unit operations laboratory which extends through both floors. 
The top floor contains a classroom, drawing room, research laboratory and reference room which will house a li­brary of manufacturers' publications and catalogs used in connection with design courses. 
All research laboratories in the new structure are arranged for easy set-up and dissembly of apparatus and the building incorporates the most recent advancements for chemical engineering work and study. 
The new addition has allowed re­vamping of the old industrial labora­tory in Chemistry Hall, providing im­proved facilities for electrochemistry and additional space for analysis ajid testing of fuels, gas, water and lubri­cants. Rooms in. Chemistry Hall for­merly occupied by classes in Chemical, Engineering have been remodeled to provide additional classroom and labor­atory space for chemistry classes, and for organic and physical chemistry re­search. 
The chemistry library has been en­larged and more space allowed for reading and study tables. Additional li­brary stacks are being installed to hold new reference works and journals. 
Dr. Francis E. McMahon, associate professor of philosophy, was president of the American Catholic Philosophical Association in 1939, and presided at the association's convention in Detroit on Dec. 30-31. His presidential address was on "Metaphysics and Culture." He was succeeded as president by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, of the Catholic University. Dr. Yves Simon, associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, also spoke at the convention, on "Liber­ty and Culture." 
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS 
Four members of the University's De­partment of Mathematics attended the meeting of the American Mathematical Society at Baton Rouge, La., during the week-end of Dec. 28-29-30. 
Professor A. N. Milgram presented a paper on the dimension theory; Profes­sor J. L. Kelley spoke on "A Theorem on Continuous Transformations"; and Dr. C B. Robinson talked on metric geometry. Dr. J. P. Nash of the faculty also attended the meeting. 
Issue two of the Reports of a Mathe­matical Colloquium, published by the Department of Mathematics of the Uni­versity and edited by Dr. Karl Menger, head of the department, appeared re­cently. With one exception, all the articles in this publication represent reasearch done at the University by members of the faculty of mathematics. 
The latest issue of "Rice Pamphlets," published by Rice Institute, is devoted to the three lectures which Dr. Menger presented there, a year ago. They deal with research done by Dr. Menger and some of his collaborators and students during the past few years. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
'^Thc Best Years of My Life^^ 
Washington gets a lot of credit for his farewell address. As I recall Al Ky­an's good-bye to the Alumni OfBce and me as I took over in January, 1926, it went something like this, "111 be seeing you." Which, of course, has been quoted since, much more widely than Washing­ton. 
That left a broad field wide open for my study, my ingenuity, my training, and what had I? 
In all tribute to Youse Guys, my em­ployers in whole or part over the period hereinafter referred to as my career— and to Notre Dame—faith and charity have marked the years, I suppose bol­stered by hope. 
Life has not been unpleasant. Living perennially in the environment which most of you must see only at varying intervals, smacks of a rare advantage. Well, you remember Adam. Paradise didn't suit him. For the most part, about living at Notre Dame, you're right. 
And I have had a delightful inde­pendence, in the sense that my ideas, if and when, have enjoyed almost complete freedom of speech and press. If there has been a leash, it has been the limited machinery which the years and the bud­get have permitted me to set up. And if there has been a muzzle, it has been only the quieting effect of the years, with the growing realization that you and I and Notre Dame have enjoyed a great many mutual blessings which we can not attribute entirely to each other; and that you and I and Notre Dame have faults which we can not attribute en­tirely to each other. 
Early Struggles 

My greatest handicaps have been these: 
1.
 Trying to give you the kind of Association you ought to have, and could. 

2.
 Realizing how much we could do for Notre Dame without hurting us. 

3.
 Becoming familiar with the alumni life as it is lived elsewhere. 


As I look back now and realize that in 1926 there were only 3,000 on the 
Or, Are They? Being a Sketch of 
Fifteen Years With Your Association-
BY JAMES E. ARMSTRONG. "25 

mailing list Only 39 Local Clubs ex­isted, and none of them approximated the Club concept of today.... Universal Notre Dame Night was three years old, with no radio programs, local or na­tional, and only four clubs reported the 1926 observance The ALUMNUS was a chummy little 5x 8 type-page job, for which news was scarce.... that the pro­lific doings of the Classes from 1926 through 1940 were still only the pro­verbial gleam in sundry academic rec­ords that I had no promotion prob­lem with prospective students.... that there was no Placement prog:ram... that the possibilities of travel, and moving pictures were still unexplored.... that Commencement attracted 200 alumni as 
against the 1940 registration of 926 that I had a full-time stenographer.... and that the Alumni Board agreed that this set-up ought to call for about a $12,000 annual budget 
When I look at that, and compare it with our present set-up, and our present budget, I sometimes think that if Caesar was ambitious, then Brutus was right. 

Today Is Different 

Today we have 10,800 alumni The ALUMNUS, by increasing page size and reducing type size, contains practically twice the material in the same number of pages 93 Local Clubs are.setting a fast pace with variety, and worth­while programs.... Universal Notre Dame Night, now an institution of 17 years experience, features a national radio hook-up, local radio programs, a diversity of Club activity, with 43 clubs reporting last year in the issue immedi­ately follo^wng the observance.... Re­unions become bigger and better.... half the Local Clubs showed the football Highlights of 1939 we have a pro­gram of contacts with high schools and prospective students Placement, un­der Bill Dooley, '26, is coming out of its original spark like the genii out of Aladdin's lamp.... our 5-Way Filing System has improved our records im-i measurably, but also has multiplied our 7,000 increase in alumni by five.... the Association was utilized in the Rockne Memorial campaigns of 1931 and 1937... 
we have annually, in the last three years, assembled the Sons of Alumni on the campus.... we have separated the Sen­ior Banquet from the Alumni Banquet, doubling the mechanics of that pleasant process. 
And yet today, BUI Dooley and one other girl in the oflSce, whom we swamp with records work, comprise the only additions to the staff. 
.No, I don't have any complaints. That is, many. Compared with other schools, Notre Dame men line up on pedestals like the Hall of Fame. If I didn't have to go ahead and check on the gents under the halos with what we may call the Mint Test, boy, would Youse Guys he good! 
But whereas the use of mint is gen­erally advocated to offset the tell-tale traces of stimulants, too often as I approach an individual pedestal, the stimulant is used to hide any trace of what might be more specifically called 
U. S. Mint. On the whole, however, and in the hole, moreover, Youse Guys are showing promising tendencies. Financially, you are not without merit. Several individuals, from the very small group of alumni who could be called es­tablished, have been most generous to Notre Dame. In the Rockne campaign, a substantial number of alumni, though far too few, gave in varying amounts, mostly small. But the tendency is in the right direction, that of helping 'Notre 
Dame to continue to seize her growing opportimities for good. 
The Spirit Is Willins 

Spiritually, you are well above par if far below perfect. The Lay Retreat movement has found widespread sup­port from clubs and individual alumni. Universal Communion Sunday is becom­ing a spiritual corollary for Universal Notre Dame Night. 'The use of the Religious Bulletin is a common alumni custom. And the responses to other spir­itual suggestions are ready and many. 
Fraternally, you are finally waking up to the fact that a Notre Dame back­(Continned from Page IT) 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI » y^ 
rpiMOTHY  P.  GALVIN,  '16,  Ham­ 
mond,  Ind.,  attorney,  a  supreme  
director  of  the  Knights  of  Columbus  

Timothy P. Galvin, '16 
since 1933, was on Jan. 11 elected by the Supreme Board to the office of Su­preme Master of the Fourth Degree of the order, succeeding John H. Eeddin. 
Initiated by Notre Dame Council No. 1477 in 1915, Tim has risen rapidly in the order to his present eminent posi­tion. He was grand knight of the Valpa­raiso, Ind., Council No. 738 in 1919-20;. district deputy in 1920-24, state deputy in 1925-28. 

These and other honors and oflfices are deserved tributes to Tim's unusual quali­ties of ability, leadership and zeal At Notre Dame, he was a Breen Medalist in oratory, a star debater for three years, editor-in-chief of the Dome and an edi­tor of the Scholastic. He was president of the Alumni Association in 1934-35. Having served with the A.E.F. in World War I, he was a charter member and first commander of the American Legion Post in Valparaiso. He is a former pres­ident of the Hammond Chamber of Commerce and at present is a member of the Selective Service Board in his dis­
trict. 
Innumerable Notre Dame men know Tim best as one of the most welcome and inspiring of visiting speakers and as a frequent visitor to the campus in many other capacities. 
Tim was married on Feb. 7, 1934, to Mary Graziella Chevigny of Hammond, sister of John E. Chevigny, '31. They are the parents of Mary Anne, 5, Timo­thy Patrick, II, 3, and Patrick Joseph, 18 months. 
TJARRY J. KIRK, '13, Washington, 
D. C, was elected president of the National Catholic Evidence Conference at its annual meeting in New York City. 
Harry is president of the Washington Catholic Evidence Guild and an inde­fatigable worker for the development of this phase of Catholic Action. Besides the regular weekly park meetings which he arranged and at which he spoke dur­ing the past season, he was instrumental in inaugurating open-air meetings in small towns in the vicinity of Washing-
Harry J. Kirit, '13 

ton and carrying them through with ex­traordinary success. 
Director of Highways for the state of Ohio several years ago, Harry is now manager of the highway division of the Associated General Contractors of America, Inc. He is the father of seven children, the oldest of whom is Sister Kathleen of the Carmelite Monastery of Baltimore. Four other daughters are students in Dunbarton College, Wash­ington, conducted by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and Getrude Kirk, a senior 
there, is president of the National Fed­eration of Catholic College Students. A son, Patrick, will be a freshman at Notre Dame next year. 
One of Harry's happiest memories is that he played every minute of every game on the famous St. Joe Hall foot­ball team of 1912. 
pREGORY RICE, '39, South Bend, 
pre - eminent distance runner in 

United States history, was on Jan. 8 
named the 1940 winner of the James 
E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy, given an­nually to the amateur "who by his per­formance, example and influence as an amateur and a man has done the most during the year to advance the cause of sportsmanship." Acts of sportmanship, qualities of leadership, strength of character and force of personality are points considered in the selection. 
Greg won his highest honor by scor­ing 1,013 points in a poll of 600 sport.«: leaders, more points than the next two out of the five finalists from an original list of 33 nominees. His victory was dis­tinctive in that he had never been con­sidered for the award in previous years. Most of the 10 previous winners had been nominated in other years, before winning the award. 
The modest, 135-pound Greg, em­ployed as an accountant by the Indiana & Michigan Electric Company, has been widely hailed as a perfect choice for the 1940 trophy. He defeated Taisto Maid, champion Finn, in all races, shattering the world indoor two-mile record with a race in 8:56.2, and twice cracking the 15-year old three-mile recor d with marks of 13:55.9 and 13:52.3. He won 
Gregory Rice, '39 

the national A.A.II. indoor three-mile and- the outdoor 5,000 meter titles, and was awarded the Track Writers Associ­ation trophy for the top athlete of the indoor season. 
(Continued on Page 17) 

By JOSEPH S. PETRrrZ. '32 

ATHLETICS 
FOOTBALL 
Bill Scanlan carried the ball for us again in the December issue, taking it through Iowa and Northwestern, which is somewhat more than the gridders themselves could do with any consisten­cy. It becomes our pleasure to describe for posterity the finale with Southern California, our only regret that Arm­strong and Dooley don't agree that an­other trip to the Coast would be just the thing to put your correspondent in the mood for the paragraphs to follow. 
To read Los Angeles newspaper ac­coimts of the Dec, 7 game, you would think that the Trojans lost to a squad of ilu germs, and only incidentally to Notre Dame, 10 to 6. In all fairness, we believe that the flu did bother Bill Bun­dy, he of the Santa Monica tennis family, who does a large share of backfield blocking. He didn't get the sniffles imtil Thursday, and he appeared weary as compared with his showing against UCLA the previous week. Those who got it earlier were certainly up to par physically. What the writers entirely overlook was the extreme heat, 86 de­grees officially the day of the game, some 20 degrees over the average maximum for December. It was even hotter on the floor of the huge Coliseum. 
The Trojans may not have been used to the flu, but the Irish were not used to those temperatures, having come out of near-zero weather. 
The Southern California game pro­vided a complete vindication, if any were needed, of the team and coaches for earlier lapses. It added another appropri­ate chapter to football's most colorful intersectional rivalry. There must be something about the proximity to Holly­wood that affects the teams in this series. At any rate, the dramatics are always there—and 1940 was no exception. 
There was a period of two week's dur­ation when Notre Dame was still win­ning (from Army and Navy) but when you'd have to read the papers closely to realize it. After a red-hot start, the Irish were criticized for not winning more decisively. Then there was the Iowa game in which Notre Dame carried the battle to the Hawkeyes courageously and almost adequately enough—but two fumbles and a pass interception in the closing minutes paid dividends to the waiting game employed by Dr. Eddie Anderson, '22. Northwestern simply had too many guns for Notre Dame and forced the Irish into mistakes which cost touchdowns. Even the victory over Southern California did not entirely stop the criticism—and, as related, many of 
TACKLE PAUL LILLIS, '42 1941 Football CapUin 

the native son scribes discounted the result on the basis of the previous Tues­day's fever charts. But to us—and to you, we're sure—it was a g^reat season. As Jim Keams, '34, ably pointed out in the Chicago Daily Neios. 
'• never in Elmer's seven seasons as head coach has Notre Dame experi­enced so bad a season, on won-lost rec­ord, as Ohio State, Wisconsin, Iowa, Illi­nois, Indiana and Purdue each experi­enced this year. Northwestern and Min­nesota had last year, and Michigan had as an annual experience from 1934 through '37. Notre Dame, under Layden, never lost more than three games, only once lost more than two." 
BASKETBALL 
BULLETIN 

Assistant Coacll Ray Heyer snided tile baafcet­eers to 53-37 victory over Pennsylvania and to a 54-19 overtime victory over Syracuse. Minns Capt. Eddie Riska, out for at least tliree weeks with a broken foot bone, they beat Michican State, 4 ^ 39, on Jan. 25. 
Victory has become routine for Notre Dame basketball teams in Coach George 
E. Keogan's 17 years as coach of the Fighting Irish. But this year—with sev­en victories in ten starts as we write this—^the situation is a little different. Coach Keogan has been unable to devote his full time to the team because of ill­ness. He will have missed the second game in 17% years by the time this reaches yon, having been ordered to stay home from the Jan. 18-20 week-end trip to Philadelphia and Syracuse for games with Pennsylvania and Syracuse. His only other miss -came several years ago when Line Coach Joe Boland accom­panied the team to Columbus. 
Had Keogan stayed home from last' year's N. Y. U. game at New York, he might not have to be so careful at this time. He left a sickbed daily to come out to practice. Worn and tired from flu, he went to New York. His iUness of last season probably contributed more than any other factor to a heart condi­tion which has made it necessary for him to curtail his physical activity this year. 
Notre Dame was fortunate that one of her finest sons, Ray J. Meyer, was available to take over as Keogan's assist­ant, doing much of the physical work in connection with practice, sconting on occasion, and taking the team when necessary for trips. Ray, one of the few men in the last 25 years to captain two Notre Dame teams, skippered the 1936-7 and 1937-8 teams on which Johnny Moir and Paul Nowak starred. Meyer got the captaincy although he had missed most of his sophomore year with a bum knee and much of his junior year with a dis­located elbow. He received the Byron V. Kanaley award upon graduation for. be­ing adjudged the senior monogram ath­lete most exemplary as a student and a leader of men. His qualities of char­acter and leadership plus his thorough knowledge of the game make him an ideal adjunct to a head coach who is known best for those same traits. 
Those who have played for Coach Keogan, or who, as students, have seen him fidgeting on the bench while trying to squeeze the last ounce of efficiency out of his teams, know what a problem he had in following doctors' orders to stay calm and relaxed. '"I tried to, but I ju^ couldn't," he said after Illinois' had over­come an 11-point d^dt in-the-last-11 minutes to win a .41 to 39 decision in overtime.' The Irish dropped a .44^ . thriller to Wisconsin at Madison after 
building a substantial lead. They played Northwestern very close throughout, but lost, 36 to 26, in the closing minutes at Evanston. 
They led Kentucky by 10 points at Louisville, but let the Wildcats creep up within one point before winning, 48-47. Even Wabash outscored Notre Dame by one point in the second half in losing, 53 to 38. It began to look like a season in which Notre Dame, no mat­ter how accurate on offense early, no matter how well-planned its defense, would swoon in the last ten minutes and lose a lot of games. 

The Butler game Jan. 11 changed all that. Leading 10 to 2, the Irish saw a 30-second rally of six points pull the Bulldogs up until they were able to tie the score later at 16-all, and go ahead 17-16 before George Sobek's free throw tied it again at the half. Butler went ahead four points, and again by one point before Notre Dame duplicated Butler's first-half rally and poured six points through the hoop in half a min­ute. The rally came with eight minutes of the game remaining and indicated that Notre Dame has reached the condi­tion necessary for last-minute drives. 
Capt. Eddie Biska, scrappy and tal­ented forward, continued to lead the scoring pace with 113 points for 10 games. George Sobek, hampered by a knee injury received last year and ag­gravated this season, is at the other forward, occasionally spelled by Jim (Red) Games, Charles Butler, and Ralph Vinceguerra. 
The center problem is a great one, with no one yet showing much scoring aptitude. Frank Quinn held Dlinois' Ma­thisen to two points, his lowest total of the season, Mathisen getting four more in the overtime after Quinn had left the scene. Joe Gillespie, slowed by an ankle inJiTi has not hit his stride. Games, Butler, and Cy Singer have all been tried at center, with Singer going eventually over to guard. 
Bob Smith and Singer have worked into the defensive posts nicely, and have been potent on oflfense. Smith with 63 points holds a one-point magin over Singer for second in scoring. Larry Ry­an, who Singer displaced, has never been hefty enough to go the route, but his sharp eye and his tricky ball-handling come in very handy to spark the team whenever there's a sign of a let-down. Charles O'Leary and Jim Engel have also shown promise at the guards. 
Recent additions include Dick Creevy, Steve Bagams, Wally Ziemba, and Ber­nie Crimmins of the football squad. 
Crimmins was an all-Loyola tournament guard, and Ziemba was an all-state cen­ter for Hammond, Ind., high, while Ba­garus made a fine reputation at Wash­ington high of South Bend. Creevy's ruggedness and drive should help the cause, too. 
TRACK 
Prospects for Notre Dame teams in 1941 are highlighted by the rosiest track outlook in several seasons. The loss of the late John P. Nicholson, coach from 1928 until his death last April 2, is somewhat offset by the most promising sophomore crop in the last decade. 
William P. (T-Bone) Mahoney, 1938 captain, hurdler and quarter miler, who succeeded "Nick" after serving as his freshman assistant while studying law the past two years, has inherited the material attracted by Nicholson's inter­national reputation as a mentor. And, while helping to carry on last spring, Mahoney indicated that he has the quali­ties necessary to put this material to good use. The Irish upset Indiana to win the state title xmexpectedly late in the season. Several members of the team turned in their best performances last spring. 
-The presence of Nicholson's son. Bill, a promising hurdler and high jumper, just as his father was a star in both events 20 years ago, adds to the bal­ance of the team. Nicholson and Bill Dillon, sophomore from San Pedro, Calif., have run the 60-yard highs in 7.8 sec­onds in practice. 
Nicholson has high jumped 6 feet 3 inches. Keith O'Rourke, sophomore from Warren, Ohio, has cleared 6 feet 7 in­ches, and he may endanger Notre Dame's all-time records. Chuck Murphy, sopho­more from St. Louis, Mo., is expected to approach six feet. 
The Irish will be unusually strong in the mile and four-mile relays. A mile team composed of Jay (Hoot) Gibson, Mishawaka, Ind., soph.; Ray Roy, Oak Park, HI., junior; George Schiewe, Chi­cago junior; and Dick Tupta, Cleveland, Ohio, soph, is expected to approach the University record this year. Schiewe and Roy will run the 440, and Gibson will concentrate on the sprints with Sopho-
Three sophomore milers who ran 4:24 or better last year are Oliver Hunter the third, Erie, Pa., Prank Conforti, Bronx. 
N. y., and- Wilbur Riordan, Sioux City, la. Tony Maloney, also a sophomore &om the Bronx, will run the two-mile, prob­ably hitting around 9:40, and he will appear with the four-mile team that Coach Mahoney expects to crack records of all kinds before the sophomore four­
some is graduated two years from nest June. 
Irish shot putters will be traditionally strong. Cliff Brosey, who set Notre Dame indoor and outdoor records in 1940, is still hampered by a broken fibula, an in­jury received early in football season, but he is expected to reach last year's 51-foot 3-inch form. Frank Delaney, San Francisco sophomore, has approached 50 feet in practice. Ed Sullivan, Herky Ber­eolos, and Walt Ziemba, all footballers, are good for 46 feet or more. 
Ezra Smith, Glendale, Calif., and Jack Wietoff, Mount Vernon, N. Y., both more Bill Wood and veterans Bob Sag­gau, Frank Sheet, and Bill Buenger to help him. Tupta and Capt. Joe Olbrys, Trenton, N. J., senior, will run the 880 yard event. The former is on the shelf temporarily with a pulled tendon, sophomores, are expected to do 13 and 12 feet, respectively, indoor, improving outdoor in the pole vault. 
Bob Garvey, Ashtabula, Ohio, sopho­more, is capable of. 23 feet in the broad jump, which will place in most indoor meets. 
The schedule has not yet been com­pleted, but the season is to open with Michigan State, Feb. 7. Highlight of the indoor season will be the Central Colleg­iate conference indoor meet at Notre Dame Mar. 7 and 8. The indoor meet will be held here and in the new Michi­gan State fieldhouse in alternate years. 
FENCING 
Return of only two of last season's six lettermen leaves Notre Dame with the poorest fencing prospects in recent years. Capt. Jack Gaither, Louisville, Ky., and Russell Harris, Little Rock, Ark., are the returning sweater winners. Graduates include Capt. Bob Sayia, foil and epee; Joe SmaUey, sabre and epee; and Jack Gavan and Jerry Donovan, sabre. The Irish last year offset foil weakness by traditional strength in sabre and record power in epee to win 5 out of 9 matches. The situation is re­versed this year and it is doubtful whether the two veteran foil wielders can carry the load. 
The fencers opened their season at Notre Dame on Jan. 17 with a some­what unexpected, but altogether wel­come, victory over Wisconsin, 15-12. The remainder of the schedule follows: 
Jan. 26 Chicago at Notre Bame Feb. L. 
-Marqaette at Notre Dame Feb. 8__ Ohio State at Caoiobus 

Feb. 15_ —Marquette at Milwaukee Ibreb : 
Uicbigan State at E. Lansing Kareb 7­
—Illinois at Urbana 

Mudi 8— Cindnnati at No6e Dame 
Hareb 27­-.Washington U. at Notre Dame 
STUDENT NOTES 
CHRISTMAS PARTY 
This Christmas story may be a little late getting into print but we think that it will bear-up under its tardiness. Espe­cially, since it marks an innovation in campus activities. 

An unusually ebullient Christmas spirit filled the campus during the week be­fore the holidays. On Wednesday, the day before an all-out-for-home move­ment, a lavish dinner including turkey, Christmas candies and nuts, bell-shaped ice cream and other dainties, was en­joyed in the dining halls. Their stom­achs contented, students then lolled back, their smokes lighted, for two hours of hilarious entertainment. Short speeches were made by Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, prefect of discipline, and Jack Burke, senior from Sioux Falls, S. Dak., and president of the Student Council. Scintillating music of two swing orches­tras added to the fun and 3,000 voices joined in singing Chrisamas carols. The compulsory pre-holiday exams came easy the next day. 
A private party was staged earlier in the week by Sorinites in their own hall. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, was honor guest. Carols were sung around a sparkling Christmas tree with various colored lights and decorations, and re­freshments were served. 
HIKE! HIKE! Notre Dame draftees will have stolen the march on conscription vic­tims if the plan of Rev. John A. Ryan, C.S.C, rector of Walsh hall, is success­ful. Fond of walking as a means of ex­ercise Father Ryan has proposed a stu­dent hikers' club so that prospective infantrymen might get their feet and legs in shape for military jaunts. Al­though intense interest has been mani­fested by some students, most of them are gambling on landing in the air corps or mechanized units. 
CONFUCIUS DIDN'T SAY 
Confucius may not have said, "Col­lege boy who goes into business, makes money," but a bit of oriental wisdom is bein g demonstrated by Jackson Chung, junior in engineering. Students have no end of means of earning money to defray school expenses and none is more unique than Chung's Chinese curio shop in South end. Chung, who fought for the Chinese army before 
By Georse L Haiiheocl, '39 

coming to Notre Dame in 1938, began his business by selling novelties to stu­dents. Soon requests, not only on the campus but from South Bend residents, became so numerous that he decided to operate a downtown store. Through per­sonal contacts in China he obtains rare carvings, ivories, jade, art pieces, and other articles of an oriental nature. 
RAMBLINGS 
Campus social life has received a much needed and spirited injection by senior John O'Dea who is promoting a series of Saturday afternoon dances at the Hotel LaSalle. . . . More potential pilots for Uncle Sam's squadrons will begin training at Notre Dame Feb. 1 under a new program of the Civilian Pilots Training Corporation. . . . Engi­neers, most of whom don't have to worry about getting jobs in these days of national defense preparation, staged their annual ball at the Palais Royale on Jan. 17, . . . With all their examina­tions safely weathered members of the Glee Club left on Jan. 31 for con­certs at Cincinnati, Ohio, Anderson, Ind., Terre Haute, Ind., and several other midwestem cities. . . . "Working our way through college" might be a popular slogan for 765 Notre Dame stu­dents who are at present employed by the University in a medley of occupa­tions. . . . Juniors will promenade their fair guests on Feb. 21 and on George Washington's birthday will attend Joe Casasanta's band concert and George Keogan's basketball club's struggle with Georgia Tech in the gymnasium. 
GYM TEAM EXHIBITIONS 
The exhibition gymnastic team of the Department of Physical Education is now scheduling out-oft-own appearances for March and early April. Loca l clubs, schools and other groups inter­ested in a gymnastic show are urged to communicate at once with Professor John A. Scannell, head of the Department of Phy­sical Education, Notre Dame, Ind. Individual alumni may be able to make suggestions to Professor Scannell regarding local contacts. 
The gymnastic team has been favorably received in recent years in such places as Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland, Toledo and Fort Wayne. 

Riordan Called to Army 
Registrar To Serve 
R.O.T.C at Purdue 

Notare Dame's serious attention to World War n has been commanded by the call to service of Major Robert B. Riordan, P.A.Res., registrar of the Uni-
Major Robert B. Riordan 

versity, and associate professor of eco­nomics. Major Riordan has orders for the R.O.T.C. unit at Purdue University, effective Feb. 22. 
A thorough teacher, an efficient ad­ministrator, and a most exemplary Cath­olic influence of character and example is lost through this severance. Fortun­ately a good alumnus, not being limited by location, remains. 
Major Riordan is a veteran of World War I. He was one of the serious group of young veterans who came back from that experience to improve their rehabil­itation through college training. He was graduated from journalism in 1924. After five years in Washington, during part of which he was employed by the Bengalese magazine of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission interests, he returned to Notre Dame to teach. He succeeded Rev. William A. Carey, C.S.C, '11, as registrar in 1930, the first layman to hold this administrative post. After his return to Notre Dame he completed work for his Master's degree, which he was awarded in 1933. 
His dual capacity as teacher and reg­istrar, his continuing military activity, which won him his majority two years ago, and the "first famly" of the facul­ty group, his wife and nine children, have combined to make him a part of Notre Dame in many of its phases, and increase the fields in which he will be missed, however temporary the exigen­cies of the Army may be. For the time being, Ms family will remain at their home, 1033 N. Francis St., South Bend, Ind. 
« « 
«

ALUMNI CLUBS 
have seen printer's lead. Sorry. Jerry Reidy. Speaking of the football rally, Joe Hanratty was the winner of the attendance award, comprising a Westward Ho! trip for two. He sold himself the ticket also. 
A belated announcement, but one which will probably still have some news value, is that of the marriage of Miss Patricia Anderson to Ed Blatt, '30, on Sept 14 in Cleveland. 
Condolences to Gene Ling on the recent death of his father, a real loss to the city of Cleveland and to all who knew him. 
Johnny Wilson left for Washington, D, C, to take up work in the F.B.L 
The custom of weekly luncheon meetings has been renewed. You will find the gang gathering at 12:30 Mondays at Bohr's, 1111 Clhester Ave. Your friends are welcome and they share in the dra\ving for the attendance prize. 
How many have signed for your club retreat? Alike Crawford. 
CANTON, OHIO 
Robert C. Streb. '32. 3210 11th St, S. W., President; Charies A. Kolp. Jr.. '38, 1900 El Prado, N. W., SecreUry. 
The Notre Dame club of Canton observed univer­sal Communion Sunday along with the other Notre Dame clubs of the country. 
We attended Mass at St. Peter's Church and had breakfast afterwards. A complete report was made concerning our financial status, and, thanks to our "Knute Bockne" benefit performance, we have established a scholarship fund as well as a treasury. 
A representative group attended, and among our older members were: Frank Zink, who has now fully recovered from a long illness; Eraser Camp and James Sexton, who attended their first meet­ing. Also present were Glen Dubbs. Ed Streb, Lawrence Hotter, Joseph Rebillot Alfred Vignos, Sr., Bernard Keffler, Harbert Norbert, Emil Ott and our hard-working president Robert Streb. 
I am glad to announce that our president posi­tion in the County Treasurer's office is secure since his employer was rejected. 
Hncli Correll has joined the Army Air corps and has left for his three years of service. I have moved into my new house, and my ad­dress now is: 1900 El FVado N. W. Charles A. Kolp, Jr. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
JjmAm C lUiphy, *SS, MS Sheridan Ava., ColuKbu. Pmldent: AUnd a Tailey, vu '2C 41 K. Gay SU Colnmbu, Sccntary. 
Rigjit up to the minute news is scarce around the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio, due to the fact that we have not had a get>together since we held a radio party, etc. for the Southern Califor­nia 1 
We are getting new members all along and really are building a bigger and better N.D. club. Al Variey. 
DAYTON. Bmu H. L. Femedinr. ex. '96, 125 Wistotia Drive, PreaidcBt; WOQam L. Struck. ^C, 718 Winters Bank Bide, Secretary. 
^M Crawley, bead coadi of Fbrdham University. was in Dayton on Dec. 7, as the guest sx>eaker for the University of Dayton's football banquet Day-
The 1940-1941 Alumni Board 

Very Rev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Notre Dame, Ind  Honorary  President  
Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, Colimibus, Ohio  President  
Clyde E, Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Texas  First  Vice-President  
Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio  Second Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind  A.ssistant Secretary  
Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, 111  Director to  IHl  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111  Director to 1H2  
John T. Higgms, '22, Detroit, Mich  Director to 1943  
William J. Mooney, Jr.: '15, Indianapolis, Ind.  Director to 1944  

Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, 111 Joseph H. Mulqueen, '40. Notre Dame, Ind 
BOSTON 
Charles AL Gallagher. *38, 5SS Adams St., East Hiltont Klass., President; John H. Murphy, *32, 718 Adams St., Dorchester, Mass., Secretary. 

For some time Frank ReiUy bad been o£ the opinion that a gathering, informal as possible, would be far more attractive than the usual meet­ings in some local hotel. How right he was was proved at a meeting held in his home on Dec 7 in conjunction with the Notre Dame-Southern Califor­nia broadcast. Frank arranged for the use of a large game room and the amplification and recording of Bill Stem's play-by-play account of the game, after which a buffet lunch was ser\'ed. 
A business meeting followed and officers for the current year were elected. Charles Gallagher, '38, succeeded Fred Solan, '36, as president. The other officers are Art HcManmon, vice-president, Frank Reilly, *32, treasurer, and John Murphy, *32, sec­retary. It was also voted to elect four members of the club to constitute an Executive Board. Hugh Blunt, '24, Joe Gartiand, '27, Jarlath Slat­tery, '31. and Fred Solan, '36, are its first members. 
The remainder of the evening was pleasantly spQTit with the showing of the football pictures of the '39 season and a permanent recording by classes of each person present; name, class and present occupation, for the club files. 
Because of the lapse of time since a report of actiTnty here in the Bay State, I made it a point to check with as many alumni as possible. 
Hon. Edward D. Collins, '03, was appointed by Governor Curley as Reporter of Decisions to the Supreme Judicial Court of Hassachnsetts; Luke Kdly, '12, a great end coach at Holy Cross for many years, is a practidng attorney; Hugh Blunt, '24, is also a lawyer; Joe Gartlmnd, '27, continues 
•withHomblower and Weeks; Gerald Crowley, '29, is \irith the Lumbermen's Mutual Insurance Com­pany; Jailath Slattery, '31, is a lawyer; John Murphy, '32, is the Boston Selecting Agent for the Civilian Conservation Corps; Frank Reilly, *32, is teaching English in the Boston Schools. 
John Hanley, *34, acts as a vocational coun­sellor with the National Youth Administration; Haxry RodEet^ '34, is another attorney; Harold Qainlan, '35, is with the Employers' group in 
Ex-Officio Director to 1941 J>irector to 1941 

Boston; Fred Solari is with the Massachusetts Insurance Commission; Charles Gallagher, '38, is a salesman; Dave Meskili, '39, and Tom Sdunid, '40, (Dubuque, Iowa) are with the General Elec­tric in Bridgeport, Conn., and drove up for the meeting; Barney Sullivan, '39, is with the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company. 
John Toomey, '39, is employed by the Inter­national Business Machines; Harry Keefe, '40, is a structural steel designer with Stone and Webster; Tom Rogan, '40. is with Pratt-Whitney in Hart­ford, Conn.; Neil Cieary, *40, is studying law at Boston College; Bill O'Hare, '40, is at Boston University and Frank Guindon, *40, is at Bridge­water Normal School, both working for their Master's degrees. 
Out of state alumni in attendance included Edward Carroll. '39, of Lsmch, Ky.. Bob Dieckel­man, '39, of Milwaukee, Bill Tobin. '40, Menomo­nie. Wis.. Bob Rothacker, '40, Cleveland, all of whom are at Harvard Business School, Jade De Moss. '40. Chicago, who is doing graduate work ' in metallurgy at Massachusetts Institute of Tech­nology, and Edgar Dougherty, '40, Canajohane, 
N. Y.. now at Harvard Law School. John H. Murphy. 
CLEVELAND 
Cornelius J. Ruffinr. "32, Bnlkley BUffi^ 
President; Dr. Myron E. Crawford, "SZ, De­
troit-Cook BIdff., Lakewood, Secretary. 

Chairman Bud Raddatz collected tickets, Hal Lynn played, and Bob Mazanec won a dancing prize (a lesson) at the annual Christmas dance. Dec. 28. in the Euclid Ballroom of the Hotel Morrissey — correction, Statler (my error. Bob, not the typesetter's). In round figures, cold figures, and cut figures the dance was a cloudburst in the deluge of C!hristmas parties that hit Cleveland. Two very welcome ex-Clevelanders present were Dick Bloom and Jade Duffy, each in from the east with his wife. Didc Prexebel returned to old friends and haunts as he temporarily deserted ^nsa s City. "Little J(din" Doyle took advantage of the occasion to announce his engagement to "TaT" Malloy — congratulations. John. By the way. where were the Rainngs and the Upridtards? 
Before this letter grows any longer, allow me to say that if I had attended tiie meetings oat of which the Football Rally grew, the item "what ever happened to his brother. Jerry V* would i ton's head coach is Harry C, Banjan, a former Notre Dame football star. 
The Notre Dame Club of Dayton held a recep­tion for Coadi Crowley in the afternoon and fol­lowed throush by attending the banquet in a body. Eocene A. Ifayl, '24, teammate of Jim, introduced him. 
Others attending the affair included Andrew Aman,'Amos Clay, Sylvester Barns, Thomas Mc-LancUin, William Carroll, Joseph Marphy, Mar­tin Kiintx, E. Walter Baoman, W. Edmund Shea. James K. Ccrflios, Hon. H. L. Ferncdinff, Paul Swift, Walter Dickerson, Pete Becmstcrbocr, Chet Brumleve and myself. Joseph P. Henneberry, of Chicago, stopped in at our meeting and said he gets to Dayton every few months on behalf of his business. 
Guests of members also present included lUchard Deger, Len Murray, E .W. Coughlin and Carl Graves. 
At the afternoon meeting we were fortunate in getting good reception of the Southern Califor­nia game due to the diligence of Bill Cronin. 
Members in the Notre Dame Club of Dayton are on the increase due to the effect of the na­tional defense program here. 
Robert Bolz is back in Dayton, stationed in the engineering department at Wright Field. His en­gagement to Miss Patricia Shouvlin, of Spring­field. Ohio, St. Mary's '39. daughter of Dan ShoavUn, '11. was announced. Karl W. Scherer, *3l, is now located here, having moved from Fort Thomas, Ky. Lt, Louis Hansman, '36. is stationed at Patterson field, just outside of Dayton, as an ofticer of the first transport squadron. He makes frequent flights all over the nation. 
Henry Rohl and EuKcne Kiefcr are now in Dayton, in the engineering deaprtment of Wright Field. Lee Conlon has also recently moved to Dayton and Bob Stone has returned here after living several years in the West. 
William L. Struck. 

DETROIT 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1717 National Bank Bldg., President; Victor J. Sdiaeffner, '33, 832 Federal Bldg., Secretary. 

Along with many other (we hope!) local Notre Dame Clubs, the Detroit Club held its portion of the Universal Notre Dame Communion on Dec 8 at St. Aloysius Church. Father Ed Hickey. chan­cellor of the diocese, said the Mass and gave the club's effort public recocrnition from the pulpit. Thirty members attended the Mass and received Communion. 
After the Mass we gathered at the Hotel Fort 

Shelby for breakfast which, thanks to the able 
efforts of the committee chairman, Howard Beech­
inor, was preeminently successful. The speakers 
were Father Ed Hickey who spoke on "Catholicism 
in the Public Schools;" Harry Kelly, secretary of 
state for Michigan, advocated serious thought by 
Notre Dame men on the national and state prob­
lems ; Ray Kelly, past commander of the American 
Legion, told us of some of his findings in the 
island possessions of the United States and did a 
most interesting job. 
The meeting closed with the remorks of Ernie 

Lajoie, "Goodfellow" extraordinary who would 
not concede that the world was a wicked place. 
He maintains that it is a warm, kindly, friendly 
place where those more fortunate ^ve unstintingly 
to make the lot of poor, neglected children more 
enjoyable, hopeful. His gang proved it on Dec 17, 
when they raised $169,000 against a quota of 
S165.000. This gave each of the 70,000 of Detroit's 
neglected children underwear, shoes, dresses (for 
the girls), stockings, candy and toys. 
Dec 17, the club honored Gar Doniii by attend­ing the University of Detroit football banquet. A prominent place at the banquet was given the 50 Nctre Dame men who attended and thunderous applause greeted the presentation of a full-sized silver football to Gus by his Notre Dame room­mate, Biffy Lee, president of the club. He read telegrams from Fatker O'Donnell. president of the University, and Harry Kelly, secretary of state. 
Victor J. Sckaeffncr. 

EASTERN INDIANA 
Howard R. DeVaoIt, '32, 617 E. Adaai St, Mnncie, President; Norbert W. Hart, '35, 116 E. Washington St., Hancie. Sec­retary. 

At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana, held in Muncie. Ind., officers for the coming year were elected and after this brief business meeting, all attending enjoyed a pleasant evening. 
Officers elected were Howard R. (Butch) De* Vault, president, P. J. (Jo) Lyndi, vice-president, and Norbert W. Hart, secretary-treasurer. Those attending were Francis Brown, '33. Sam McNalty, *26, Fred S. Watson, '25, Albert Cox, '28, John BI. Scanlon, *33. Thomas A. Cannon, '33, Francis H. Schweicr, '28, Batch DeVaalt. '32. Paal E. Schrenkcr. *36, James S. Fitzmanrice, *37, Ed Fitzmaarice, '34. Al Granger. '31, James N. Hal­ligan, '32, P. J. Lynch, Jr., '35, Norbert W. Hart, 
•35. Joe Perkins. '40. Charles F. Vogt, '00. Wil­liam F. Craig, '29, Mario Pieroni, *40, Ridiard A. Greene, '28. Richard E. Hangh, '29. 
Norbert W. Hart. 

GOGEBIC RANGE 
Joseph Raineri, Jr., ex. *31, 307 Second Ave.. N., Hurley, Wis.. President; Eugene 
R. Zinn, '39, 701 E. Ayer St., Ironwood. Mich., Secretary. 

A Notre Dame Gogebic Range meeting was held on the evening of Dec. 27 at the Iron Inn. Iron­wood, Mich. The following were present: Mr. and Mrs. Victor F. Lemraer; Mr. and Mrs. Robert O'Callaghan and son. Robert; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Raineri; Raymond Ebli; Eugene Zinn; Charles Ellefson; Frank Vukovich; William Maccani. 
Election of officers was held with the follow­ing results: Joseph Raineri, Jr., president: £• • gene Zinn. secretary and treasurer. 
Retiring as president was Frank Vokovidi. The late John C. Sullivan was secretary and treasurer. After the meeting a number of those present at­tended the showing .of "Knute Rockne—All Ameri­can" at a local theater. 
Frank Vukovich. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) 
Louis J, Hollenbach. ex. '37. Glencoe Dis­
tillery, Louisville, President; David W. 
Baird, ex. '31, 2317 Cherokee Parkway, 
Louis^-ille. Sccretatj-. 

Notre Dame's basketball sharpshooters defeated the University of Kentucky by a score of 48 to 47 at the Jefferson County armory in Ixjuisville on Jan. 4. The ability of the Irish in sinking free throws spelled the difterence between defeat and victory and the evenness of the battle kept the crowd of 5.000 in a continual uproar. 
Following the game, the Notre Dame Club of 
Greater Louisville sponsored a dance at the Madrid 
Ballroom. About 250 couples attended. President 
Louis Hollenbach and Bemie Crimmins. Notre 
Dame footballer, spoke a few words to the mem­
bers and their guests. Although a final report 
has not as yet been submitted, the affair is con­
fidently expected to be a financial success for the .club, as it has always been a social success in Louisville. David Baird. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
August L. Bond!. 'St, Httn^alitaB Llf« IM . Co., Rm. 207, 157 N. Illiii^ St., PiwUtBl: Elbert W. Hahoney, IS, StU Ceatna ATC^ Secretary. 

The Indianapolis alumni, in cooperation with the campus club, staged a Christmas supper danee at the Indianapolis Athletic Club, Dec 26. About 200 couples attended. 
Now we are in the usual post holiday season lull except for the weekly luncheon meetings. Would like to extend a hearty invitation to any Notre Dame men who may be passing thnmi^ Indianapolis to come up and join us at these luncheons. We meet every Monday noon in the dining room at the Board of Trade Building; Among the regulars there are Jee Argtti, Bfike Fox, Georse Saitk, Lc* Wcldi* Jr., Pat FUbcr. G u BowH, Bob Bbynahan, Joe Bedc, Ge«rge BisdMff, Clyde Bowers, Ckarles Brswn, Jafai Harringtati, and Cluriey Hasan. Many others attend whenever they can. 
ElBlakmey. 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) Jokn J. CCOTmsr, *U, 166« St. LMIS Ave Kansas City, Bb., President; Nonaan H. Bowea, *33, 5S23 Sodckill Road, Kansas City, Ms., Secretaty. The campus club entertained with a holiday dinner dance, December 28, at the BGlbum Club. Among the alumni present at the affair, were: Joe Cole, David Crooks, Vincent DeConrwy, Jack Donaline, Tom Higgins, Ernest Maarin, Jin 3fetz­ler, AI Nigra, Jade O'Conniw, Tom Reardon, Ridi Bowes. Gene Marray, and Pete Vangfan. 
The next meeting is planned for a date shortly before the beginning of Lent. Norman M. Bowes. 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
James R. Bacon, ex. *37, cyo LaPsrte 
Herald-Argvs, President; Ernest Lanrts, 
*37, 705 Haple Ave., Secretary. 

James R. Bacon was elected president of the club at a reorganization meeting on Dec 8. KCT. 
A. C Van Rie was chosen honorary president, Clarence Bance as vice-president, Ernest Lansis as secretary, and Harry Rose as treasurer. Hie club members assisted at Mass and received Holy Communion in St. Peter's Church prior to a breakfast. It was planned to have club meetings once each month. 
LOS ANGELES 
Charles S. Gass, 'SO, 1223 Citizens Natl 
Bank Bldg., Los Angeles, President; Martin 
B. Daly, ex. *28, 201 Denskiw Ave., W. Los Angeles, Secretary. 

Tlie last of our weekly luncheons was held the week of the Notre Dame-Southern California game. The attendance at the Inndieons increased as we approached the date of the game. Plans for the week-end of the Southern California game were discussed at the meetings and, throu^ such open discussions of our problems, those in diarge received very valuable advice and assistance. 
On the F^day evening before the game a stag buffet supper was given by the club in the Renais­sance and Rendezvous Rooms. of the Biltmore Hotel. 
Following the dinner those present were enter­tained by the showing of a motion picture of one of the Notre Dame 1940 games and by many fa­mous football coadies, screen and radio stars. H e committee in dmrge of the stag dinner and enter­tainment was headed by Jekn larder and was cora­iwsed of the following members: Lea WardL Carroll Olleaia, Bentley Kyan. NeO Ran, Jse Hiss. Al TarriKs, Carl Raasdi and Larry Mnre. The committee's excellent work was evidenced by the fact that more than 500 persons attended. 
The night of the game we sponsored a Notre Dame party in the Biltmore Bowl of the Biltmore Hotel. The place was eompletdy filled witii alum­ni and friends of Notre Dame celebrating the victory over the University of Southern GaUfomia.' Several members of the Notre Dame team were present as oar guests. Among the alumni -wrbo attended were: Dr. Frank Brcslin, Leo Ward. Keene Fitzpatrick, Oscar and William Sidenfaden, John Catberry, Charlie Gass, Jim McCabe, Carl Raosch and Marty BrtU. 
Flans are now bcingr made for our annual retreat to be held in March at the Fassionist Fathers Retreat House located in the foothills near Sierra Hadre. A committee will soon be appointed to contact our members in the hope that a large number will attend the retreat. 
Marty Daly. 
MILWAUKEE Eari McCanon, '25, Home Owners Loan Carp.. President; John B. Clander, '34, 1219 
W. Vliet St., SecreUry. 
The local dub has been highly praised for its gesture of tribute to the Catholic Conference High School champions. The annual Rockne trophy award was made to Marquette High School by Earl HcCarron and John Claudcr at a special convocation of the students early in December. 
Names of several Notre Dame football men have' been mentioned in the press as possible coaches at our local University. Marquette Univer­sity has not had many connections with ND coaches except for Freeman Fitzgerald, who was assistant coach some years ago. He is now too busy selling: reinforcing steel. 
Hie Societj- section of our papers has noted with great gobs of ink the engagement of a past officer. William Fromm, to a young lady from Racine. Miss Nancy Thompson. We hear over the luncheon table of the club that Tom O'Meara is married to a young lady from Cleveland. Jim O'Meara also is engaged, according to informa­tion coming from West Bend. 
Jerry Fox was in to\\-n to preside at a conven­tion of the U. S. horse trotting men. His hand­some face was prominent in the sports section. Also noted recently was the picture of Red Smith, who has been mentioned as a likely owner of a baseball club upstate. Red showed up at the luncheon recently to say "Hello." 
We have been saddened by the news that Rev. Joseph Bnrke, C.S.C., died recently. He was a Milwaukee man, and at one time was pastor of St. Bernard's church in Watertown. His brothers' families are prominent in Notre Dame affairs. We are also sorry to hear of the death of John Cavey's father. Hurt Maloney of International has been shifted to San Antonio. Bob S^raitt has moved down from northern Michigan to work here^ for Employers Mutual Insurance Co. 

Jim CIcrend in Sheboygan is now running the Gerend Furniture Store according to recent infor­mation from that town. This is not a new venture for the family, but it is for Jim. who has been in the coal business. 
Bill Collins has switched connections to the Kansas City Life Insurance office here in Milwau­kee. At a recent luncheon, it developed that Bill, John Claader and the writer each was visiting his respective wife at the same hospital at the same time without knowing it. The wives are better. 
We are looking forward to seeing the Marquette-Notre Dame basketball game in a group. T^is has been done in the past by purchasing a large block of tickets. It is hoped that the enthusiasm locally will bring out a large crowd again. 
A Rockne Memorial Mass is planned for spring. The movie. "&iute Rockne—^All-American," has rekindled all the old time spirit anew, and the turnout will be our spiritual tribute. 
Paul Bmst. 

MINNESOTA 
Frank Mayer, '27, Northern States Power Co., St. Pud. President; (Seorge McDermott, 714 New Totfc Bldff., St. Paul. Secretaiy. Our club had one of its most enjoyable dances 

in the Continental Room of the Hotel S t Paul on Dec 28. More than 250 couples attended. Every one there expressed much pleasure with the gaiety of the affair. The decorations were most attractive. 
The Twin City Notre Dame men really pulled together to make this annual dance a great suc­cess. Jerry Conway, of St. Paul, was the general chairman and he was ably assisted by Frank Mayer. Joe Schrocder and Jack Yelland of Min­neapolis went to work to see that the Minneapolis fellows were at the dance and they did a splendid job. I am enclosing a copy of the society page of our St. Paul Sunday paper to indicate to you how much local interest there was in this Christmas party, and also to indicate that when Jerry does things he believes in going to town. [Ed's note: The paper carried a full page of pictures on the dance on the Sunday preceding it. Congratula­tions !] 
Georffe Thomas McDermott. 

NEW ORLEANS 
Charles de U Vcrcne. *25. 1102 BUritiMe Bids., President; Austin Boyie. *SI, C21 Bourbon St., Secretaiy. 

The club had no meeting in December but all who could get out to the Sugar Bowl watdied Gregory Rice take the three-mile run in the track meet and banked themselves in the stands New Year's Day to see Frank Leahy's Boston College team topple Tennessee. Frank made the finest im­pression of any visiting coach here in recent years. Fred Digby, Sr., sports editor of the "Item-Tribune," was in the forefront of those lauding the 'character and courage' Frank had instilled in his squad. Chuck Jaskwhich, assistant to Harry Mehre at Mississippi, was one of the visitors in the press box. 
Jack Elder came in shortly after the New Year on his honeymoon and the local papers gave the 'Rebel' from Kentucky a great play on his reminiscences of Rockne, NiiJiolson and Notre Dame. Jack, still with the C.Y.O. in Chicago, went on with his bride to Havana. 
Jack McCarthy, the old basketballer, has be­come an outdoor sport and regales all who will listen with tales of prowess as a duck hunter. Jack's been out hunting >rith Jerry Dalrymple, former Tulane All-America end. 
Bill Drenx, lawyer and expert football analyst, is chairman of the recently formed New Orleans chapter of the France Forever committee. J. A. (Al) Riley is a newly commissioned second lieu­tenant in the coast artillery, anti-aircraft, of the Louisiana National Guard. AI was featured in a local rotogravure section trying on his new tini­forms. 
Patrick E. Burke, '88. our honorary president, gave a recent cocktail party in honor of his daughter Margaret which was well attended by club members. Emil "Judge" Telfe] resumed his teaching chores at Loyola of the South after spending the holidays at Menominee. Mich. FVed Digby, Jr., recently left the employ of the "Item-Tribune." 
The club was saddened by the death of Rev, Joseph Burke, C.S.C., former Director of Studies at Notre Dame, and recently pastor of Sacred Heart Church here. 
Austin Boyle. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Howard Parker, '17, 219 State Bldr., San FranciBco, President; Robert L. McDonald. *30. 1032 Ardmore Ave.. Oakland. Secretary. 

^Ihe Notre Dame Club of Northern California was very well represented at the Notre Dame-S.G. game in Los Angeles and the result of the game was most satisfactory to all the members making the trip. 
Howard Parker, from San Francisco, was at the Coliseum, as were also Keene Fitzpatridc and Dan Sullivan. After the game a great many of the boys attended the victory dance in the Biltmore Bowl and among those present were Bernie Abrott, Paal and Grer Cashinff. Paul Enricht. "Hlie" Bynie, Leo Banes, Bill Rapp, Tommy Fitzpatrick. Bin Yore, Harcfaie SchwarU and Buck Shaw. 
Our former president, Tex Dnridn, came do\\-n from Salt Lake for the game and informed us that he is in the Naval Air Reserve. 
Bob McDonald. 

NEW JERSEY 
Harrey P. Ro^weD, 'U, 1202 Essex Howe. 
1M8 Brvad St.. Newark. President; Andrew 
E. CKeeffe, '33, Box 363. New BranswidE, Secretary. 

The club's biggest annual affair, the New Year's Eve Dance, was held in the Main Dining Room of the Robert Treat Hotel. Music was purveyed by George Gallagher and his Royal Commanders. A capacity crowd of 225 couples joined in the customary ceremonies usual for that occasion. A number of members of the campus division helped to swell the crowd. Chairman Bill Moritz suggests that the committee handling next year's dance should stage an after-the-dance breakfast. Several informal breakfasts following this year's affair were very popular. 
Mark Nevils. of Newark, is assistant publicity director for Curtiss-Wright Aviation Corp. . . . Bill Brown is secretary of the Orange Board of Education . . . thanks to Commissioner Russ Riley. . . . Dan O'Neill was "at home" in Butte. Mont., but Is back now and 15 pounds to the good. . . . Clark Reynolds, recently graduated from Harvard Business School, Is with the Union Bag and Paper Co. Clark recently announced his engagement to Miss Shirley Hill, of Burlington. Vt. . . . Sam Colaruso recently returned from his honeymoon. . . . Tom Flynn has moved to Washington, where 
he has taken charge of the office of the Fidelity and Casualty Co. . . . 
Hie wedding of Bill Costello to Miss Kitty Kelly, of Stanhope, was announced at Thanks­giving time. The wedding took place in early summer. . . . Mr. and Mrs. Tom Treacy an­nounced the arrival of a son in October ... . New Jersey received a surprise visit from Bishop O'Hara on Dec 6. The occasion was the inaugura­
. tion of the Nocturnal Adoration Society of the Archdiocese of Newark. Thanks are due Bill Reilly, the bishop's secretary, who told him that its lay organizer was an active Notre Dame grad­uate. . . . Tom Kenney was proselyted by the Newark "Evening News" to aid in building up its circulation department. Tom formerly was an active member of the Milwaukee Club. . . . Les Fish is traveling for a national sporting-goods house, and stopped recently in Newark. Ed Von Hoene has been transferred from the Newark office of Sears. Roebuck and Co. — presumably to Kalamazoo or points west, from his non-attend­ance at meetings. . . . Bob Tnson is with the Reilly Tar and Chemical Co. in Newark. BiD Moot2 is superintendent of the plant. Hank Perss^n completes the Notre Dame contingent of Reilly's Newark plant. 
The constitution committee, after much labor, has finally produced a draft of a proposed con­stitution, which is being submitted to the mem­bership for action at the February meeting. 
Andrew E. O'Keeffe. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Rotert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St. Pres­ident; Paul Bfaholduc ex. '35. C.Y.O.. 485 Madison Ave,, Secretary. 

Hie Board of Governors of the club, following out the req:uest of members, has presented to Host Ber, John F. O'Hara. C.S.C.. D.D.. with two Ifess kits. It is believed that these Mass kits w*ill be used by two Holy Cross priests in the military jservice. Bishop O'Hara was most grateful for this good turn on the part of the club. 
Special gnests at the New York dab Commnnion breakfast on Dec 8 were Aloraias Bird WaUiir. Linns Red Eaxle and Lloyd Black Crowe» with Father Bernard Cnllen, director of the Blarqaette Lcasne for Catholic Indian Missions. Robert A. Hamilton, dnb president, is at the richt. Breakfast speakers, in addition to Father CoUen, were Bishop-Elect J. Frands A. Mclntyre of New York City, Secretaiy af State Michael J. Walsh and Rev. James Cassidy of MaryknoU. Archbishop Spdiman celebrated Mass far the dnb in St. Patrick's Cathedral 
On Jan. 7 the Knnte K. Rockne Memorial foot­
ball trophy, awarded annually by the local club to 
the champions of the C.Y.O. football league, was 
awarded to Our Lady of Mercy parish in the 
Bronx. Warren Fogd, vice-president, presented the 
award to the Kev. Patrick A. O'Leary, pastor. 
Joseph W. Schmidt, another hard pluseing N.D. 
man for C.Y.O., presented the Archbishop Hughes 
General Assembly of the Fourth Degree K. of C. 
trophy to the Rev. Michael F. O'Donnell, assistant 
pastor and team moderator. Joe is faithful navi­
gator of this assembly. Rev. Daniel Gleason, 
C.S.C., only New York City policeman to be or­
dained a priest, also graced the occasion. Yo.urs 
truly also attended to see and hear Fogel and 
Schmidt in action. They outdid themselves in 
eloquence. 
We salute the new nominees for the Board of Governors for the ensuing year — John Balfe, Danid O'Neil, Robert "present prexy" Hamilton, Joseph G. Frid. Danid D. Halpin, Warren Fogel, Richard Donoghne, John Hoyt, Timothy Toomey, George Rohrs, Jadt LaveUe, Sig Slusika, John Martin, Hon. William Walsh, and P.JJI. Accord­ing to Hamilton this list is subject to change by members of the alumni — anyway it looks like an imposing slate for another successful year of club activities. The election of officers takes place next month. 

Warning — you faithful followers of the shoot­ing artists: Get your reservation in early through Ned Irish of Madison Square Garden for the spe­cial thriller on Feb. 14 when Notre Dame takes on New York University. Remember last year! We're due to break N.Y.TT.'s winning streak this year and avenge last year's setback. 
To our successor, best of luck, good cheer and plenty of copy. You'll need the latter to satisfy Armstrong and Dooley. Adios. adieu and so long. It's "thirty" for Maholchic. 
P. J. M. 

PHILADELPHIA William A. A. CasteUini, '22, Benjamin EAIeman Co., 260 S. Broad St., President: 
E. Bradley Bailey, ex. '21, 260 S. Broad St., Secretary. 

Notre Dame Communion Sunday was celebrated Dec 8 by members of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, who attended Mass and received Holy Cbmmunion in a body at SL John the Evan­gelist church. Mass was celebrated by the club's chaplain, Ker. Bernard C Farley. 
Following church services, the group had their breakfast at the Hotel Adelphia. BUI Castdlini. '22. president of the Philadelphia Club, read a telegram received from the Rev. Hash O'Donnell, C.S.C. 

Among those who gave short talks were Hon. John H. Neeson, '03, director of public works, city of Philadelphia, and drop kicking John Kelle­her, *40, who is now a medical student at the Jefferson Hospital, Philadelphia. The meeting con­cluded with the showing of a 30-minnte movie on the highlights of the 1940 football season. 
Those who attended yere: Dan Yoang, John Kd­leher, John H. Neeson, Sr. John H. Neeson, Jr., Walter F. Philipp, Harry Francis. Vinctnt J. Donohne, Charles H. Kdeher, father of Ed Kde­her, Louis G. Olanean, Jack Kenney, F. P. Sha­piro, W. J. Nolan, Thomas J. Bbsee. C A. Crisci, Robert J. Armstrong, William A. A. Caa­tdlini, William McGregor Castdlini, G. T. Decan, Tim Byrne, John J. Brady, of the United States Mint, Philadelphia. Walter R. Ridley, WiOiaa E. Cooney, Charlie McKinney, Clilf FrodeU. De-Lancey J. Davis, J. R. Bars, J. Harold Jadaen, Dan Young, Jr., Conal J. Byrne, Bert Kelly, Thomas A. Blisard, Jess James, J. A. O'Donnell. Joseph F. Collins, Charies H. Yoang, E. Bradley Bailey, and Edward and James Bailey. 
On Jan. 7 the Philadelphia Munidpal War Veterans had a banquet in honor of Hon. John 
H. Neeson. About 1,000 were present, the only reason the number was so small was — there's no more room in the hall. N, D. had a large representation at one table. 
Bill CasteUini has resigned as public relations director of the Franklin Institute and is a fnU­time member of our staff at the Benjamin Eshel­man Company (advertising). Bill did a grand con­vention job here as chairman of the press and public relations for the American Assodatlon for the Advancement of Science and Assodated Sod­eties. Figure up the amount of work that must have been entailed in handling the press from all parts of the world effectively and intelligently. Bill was ably assisted, of course, by one Edward Bailey, Jr., who was in charge of the press room. 
E. Bradley Bailey. 

ROCHESTER Frank X. Connelly, ex. "34, 135 Sprins St . President; John F. Hurley, "ST. IMS Cnii­merte Bldg., 119 Main St,. Secretary. 
Since our distinguished president's last report to you. the club has sponsored three events, all of which were successful. On Dec. 1 the club had its fourth annnal Communion breakfast. Aboot 35 membexa attended Mass and received Communion at St. Mary's and later reminisced over coffee at Odenbach's. 
On Dee. 23 the club invited the members of the campus organization to a dinner at the Hotd Rochester, Entertainment followed the dinner. D. Bernard BewMMey. '34, was general chairman. A second tpeub was made by the encumbent presi­dent, but it was immediately drowned by a roar of disapproval. 
The annual Christmas formal was hdd on Dec. 28 at the Rochester Club. A record turnout danced to the music of Frank Scnltety. Old faces who showed at the dance were those of Georce Ball and Jim Hacnire of '36, Dr. Leo HofsAneidcr, '36, Jim. Tamey. '39, now in the New York of­fices of Snider Packing, Red Marsrette. '3S. and many others. Hay they beam at club functions more regularly. 
The dub will be in the market for a good treasurer shortly as Jeny FarreU is leaving for a year's stint in the Army. It is also reported that Laa Beaiah, '39, wiU be sporting the khald be­fore the month is over. Henry Johangten. '39, has left the field of drugs and cosmetics to study medidne at Loyola in Chicago. 
John F. Harky. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (ladiawi) L«da T. Bnnwr. '21. 12* W. JcVaiMib Smtk Band. Piesldent: Clarence HarOw.­tS. Saath Bend Triboie. Saath Bend, Sae­retaiy. 
The dub's activities within the Deeember-Jann­ary period were centered upon its annnal Civic Testimonial Banquet to the footbaU team and its coaches on Dec 16. About this yon will read else­where in this issue. 
Flayd Scarer. '28, treasurer of the dnb and one of the organization's ablest, most ardent and most consistent workers, is the new trust officer of the First Bank and Trust Company, Smith Bend. Floyd's handUng of the dub's funds, par­ticularly his dispensing and collecting of student loans, has brou^t to him much deserved commen­dation. 
ST. LOUIS Dr. Battaad D. CawkBu. •2*. TTM CMb Cmat, Fndint: JOkut J. 
15. 4*51 Shaw St. Saoretaty. 

I am goins to start the new year, for the Notre Dame Club of S t Loois, with a lonff overdue letter concerning our activities since way last June. For some reason or other the deadUne on these articles catches up with us each time. 
Last June 12, the dub staged its annual Alumni Golf tournament at beautiful Sunset Hills Country Club. For the non-golfers, there was swimming. In the evening, the members and their lady guests met for dinner on the open porch at the dub, and danced 'til the wee small hours. This meeting served as the introduction of our 1940 graduates, and thdr initiation into the club. 
Raynwnd J. Kelly, then national commander of the American Legion, was the prindpal speaker at a luncheon sponsored by a conference of Post Commanders at the Jefferson Hotd here last June. 
21. The dub occupied a separate table and enjoyed Ray's talk on the "Fifth Column." 
On Stmday, July 28, our annual picnic at John Coriey's farm was hdd. The activities consisted of everything hot flying an airplane, and the food of good old barbequed ribs, aU of which was enjoyed by 125 members and their guests. This picnic has proven to he a main-stay of our club, and we cer­tainly are Indebted to Mr. Corley for his ho^i­toUty. 
On the evening of Aug. 26, the S.S. "Admiral" 
steamed away from its Mississippi River dock with about 75 sea-going and pleasure-seeking members of the club for an evening of enjoyable dancing in the cool atmosphere of "Ole Man River." 
The premiere of the "Knute Rockne—^AIl Ameri­can!* picture on Oct. 4. at South Bend, gave us, here in St. Louts, opportunity to launch our Scholarship Fund drive for 19-10. Through the courtesy of Harry Flmnneo', then of KMOX, we were guests of the Columbia Broadcasting System at dinner and a tour through the studio. 
Our Scholarship Fund in St. Louis is now under the control of a committee composed of Joe Mc-Glynn, Jolui Corfey, Dr. Matt Weis, Bob Hcllmng, and Gene Stronc This is a rotating committee with each member being elected by the club for a varying period of years. The fund is maintained by a "donation system" consisting of buying a book of "donation" receipts, each receipt being eligible for a prize at the end of the drive. This year we sent four people to the Northwestern-Notre Dame game at Chicago with all expenses pMd for the week-end and a little cash for inci­dentals. Two girls from Maryville College, here in St. Louis, were the -winners this year, and there seems to be some talk of Mr. Corley's daughter. Irene, fixing up the winning tickets. Our chaplain. Father Ryan, S J-, who drew the winning numbers from the wheel, has some very close connections at Maryville, also. Of course, this is just idle rumor. T^e fund is to send some deserving student from the greater St. Louis area up to school. We expect to have enough money in the fund to start a student there next year. 
l^e premiere of the picture "Knute Rockne—All American," for St. Louis was held Oct. 11. The club thought there would be no better time to in­augurate a trophy known as the "Notre Dame Award in Memory of Knute Rockne" than at this time. Consequently, on the stage of the Fox The­atre between pictures, the trophy was presented to 3fVank Eschen, sports announcer of Station KSD, by myself. Harrj' Flannery, who had just recei%'ed word of his appointment to the Columbia Broadcasting Station in Berlin, Germany, acted as master of ceremonies, and introduced Frank and myself. The trophy is to be presented to the out­standing football team of greater St. Louis the latter part of this month. We have chosen sports editors and sports announcers and several high school football officials to select the winning team. Ballots are in the mail now, and we hope to be able to send you a picture of the trophy and more ,• about the presentation later. 
On Oct. £6, about 350 actual and sj*nthetic alumni of the club journeyed to Champaign. 111., to see the team play. Our club sponsored the ex­cursion, and did very nicely as a result. 
Just before school started, we held our annual "meet the new student" luncheon at the Univer­sity Club here, and introduced the freshmen to the present upperclassmen. This meeting has* be­come an annual affair, and is always well at­tended. Fullback Joe Thesing was in town for an All-Star game, and was our guest at the luncheon. 
ITie club sponsored excursions to the. Iowa and Northwestern football games, and although the outcome of each game was not satjsfacory. the social aspect was a great success. We took about 50 people to the Iowa game and the Northwestern drew about 180. 
On Dec. 27, the club held its annual Christmas Formal in the main dining room of the University Club, and about 120 members and friends enjoyed dancing to Bill O'Brien and his ordiestra, finish­ing the evening with a breakfast served about 
2:30 a.m. Mr. Corfey was presented with a token of appreciation for his club activities. The older alumni seemed to be able to stay up as late as the younger fellows. Of course, we had no way of checking up on them the following day. 
Bertrand'D. Coughlih. 

TUCSON (Aritona) 
Vmccnt Heiveifcmcli, ex. '27, P. O. B « 
533, President: Ted A. Witz, ex. '29, B « 
62S, SecreUry. 

Leslie Baddatz has moved to a new address: 2025 North Vine Avenue, Tucson. Jim RaTdle** brother, John, has been visiting friends in Tucson over the holidays. An old friend of ours, ftabeii Sullivan, ex. *S5, now in Chicago but formerly of Tucson, is now married. (Thanks for the Christ­mas greetings. Bob, but I haven't your address, so do drop me a line some time soon). 
Joe Dcgnmn, *34, is really putting pounds on his frame, and his old friends should be happy to know that he is feeling so much better. I'm sure the new year will bring him better health. 
Saw an old friend in Tommy Clark. '30, from my home town of Akron, Ohio, while over in Los Angeles last December for the game. Had a real gab session of old times in Akron. Regards to the bunch back there, especially to Joe Kraker. 
Ted Witz. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Gcorce J. SdUIl, '27, Municipal Garacc ft Repair Shop, Expo. Bldff., Dnqnesiie Way, Pittsburgh. President; Rev. Vincent P. Brea­nan. '32, St. Peter's Rectory, 814 Wcsteni St., Tarcntnm, SccretaTT* 

Following the Special Benefit showing of the Hockne Movie at the Midnight Show at the Stan­ley Theatre in Pittsburgh on Oct. 10 which realized a nice profit for the Scholarship Fund, the next activity of the club as a whole (outside of the regular weekly luncheons at the Hotel Henry on Thursday at 12:00 M) was the annual Notre Dame Communion on Dec 8, feast of the Immaculate Conception. The local group gathered at St. Paul's Cathedral and attended the 10:00 o'clock Mass and from there adjourned to the nearby Pitts­burgh Athletic Association for breakfast-
Next on the club's schedule was the dinner held on Thursday, Dec. 26 at the Hotel Henry in the ball room to welcome home the undergraduates from school. About 35 were present, pretty evenly divided between the students and the alumni. In addition to the students, the club has as its gnest and one of its speakers the Rev. Father Romuald, C.P., who has succeeded Father Donald, C.P., as director of retreats at the local Passionist Mon­astery. 
George ScAill, our president, welcomed the re­turning students. Ihe treasurer. Jack Monteverde. in addition to reporting on club finances, urged ' the alumni to be present for the annua] Notre Dame Retreat. Bob Kvatsak discussed the annual Notre Dame Clnb dance of which he was the gen­eral chairman. Loa Apone. president of the West-em Pennsylvania Club at Notre Dame, spoke briefly and introduced the various students who were present for the dinner. The secretary was then called on for a few words. 
The sixteenth annual Christmas dinner dance of the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania was the next activity. Sorry to say, in spite of the untiring efforts of the general chairman and his aides, the dance is listed in the category of those social successes but financial failures. It was held on Dec 27 in the Urban Room of the Hotel Wil­liam Penn. It was a dinner dance as nsnal. HaWrt 
J. Kvatsak was general chairman and as vice-chairman he had Louis Apone. president of the student club. The committee chairmen were: In­vitations. A. J. Diebold. Jr.: Decorations. Harii C Boyle; Music,', Edward Hanauer; Programs, Hugh A. Gallagher; Tickets. D. BL Meinert; and Publicity. William Fay. 
A Christmas card revealed that Eddie Haff. '40. former president of the student club at school, is now working in Cleveland.. He might run across TMM Cronin. his classmate, who is likewise now in Cleveland. 
Word from Eddie O'Brien tells me that his brother, Tom» likewise of the class of '40, was one of three boys from Pittsburgh sheeted for the tr&ining course in the Reserve Officers of the United States Marine Corps. Tom is now in Quan­tivo, Va.. and I know he would appreciate hearing from any of the fellows. His address is: Private First Class Thomas B- O'Brien. Company C, Quantioo, Virginia. 
Here's an item which is still news to most of the boys around here: On Oct. 19, in the Log Chapel at N.D., John O'Connor, III. '34, lately of Pittsburgh but now of Warren, Ohio, was married to Hiss Blanche Murphy. Bill OTooIe, '34, was best man, and among other attendants were Eddie 03rien. '34, and his wife, Janet. 
Continuing the matrimonial netvs: Scott Sheedy was married on Thanksgiving Day, Nov. 28. to Miss Jean Boslett here in Pittsburgh. James C. Devlin (356 Bailey Ave., Mt. Washington, Pitts­burgh. Pa.) is engaged to Miss Helen Burke, like­wise of Mt. Washington, and, according to word fxom Jim, they are planning on a spring wedding. Jimmy was recently promoted to assistant mana­ger of the Butler, Pa., office of the Personal fin­ance Company. George Schill tells me that Jack Carr of Pittsburgh and Miss Mary Roach of Am-bridge are to be married on Jan. 21. 
Word reaches me that Ed Slick has returned from Marion, Ind., to Johnstown, Pa., to the Hawes Refractory of the Slick Glass Corp.. and Boh Sloan. *39. formerly of Johnstown, is now at the Marion, Ind., plant of the same firm. 
Bad Goldraan. '36, of New York City, is now in Pittsburgh where he is serving as advertising director of an Opticalization Service. Edward F. Lee. *31, formerly of Altoona. Pa., is now residing at 221 Sterritt St, Crafton Heights. Pittsburgh. Pa., and is another new member to be welcomed to the local meetings. Recent visitors to Tarentum have been Rer. Vincent Mooney. CS.C. '16. who is still director of the Catholic Youth Bureau in Washington, and Ken Stilley, who is teaching and coaching at Altoona Catholic High and had a nice season during the last football campaign. 
Several of the boys have been going into new homes — among them I might list John McMahon, '28, who handles the placement work for the club, who is now living at 446 Longridge Drive. Mt. Lebanon, Pa., and Eddie Cosgrove. '34, who is now at home at 1014 Avacoll Drive, Greentrec. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Father Vince Brennan. 

GRADUATE NEWS Robert J. Tbomas, 231 W. 14th St . Wil­
•Kington. Delaware. 

Hje Notre Dame men located in Wilmington have extended to Charles "Bert" Tonng. Ph.D., '36, their sympathy over the death of his brother who was co.pilot of the ill-fated airliner which crashed in Chicago recently. 
We are pleased to announce that John Verbanc. Ph.D., *38, is returning to work after having been confined to a local hospital with a throat in­fection. 
In reply to the recent request in this column, CUffard Hihm, M.S., *37, writes from 908% West Sixth Street, Austin, Tex., the following about himself: 
•'I came to St. Edward's University, here in Austin, in Sept 1937, and have been here ever since. X am in charge of Chemistry here. I suppose I eoold even be called 'head of the department.' Am teadiing Inorganic, Organic, and Qualitative and Quantitative in day school and Inorganic in the 'Evening College/ 
"A year after I left N.D., I married Adeline M. Cleary of Superior, Wis. 
"I have also been -working off some boors to­ward my Ph.D., in fact have about 14 semester hoars taken care of. This was taken at St. Ed's in the Engineering Department." 
Cliff would like to hear from some of the old gang and promises to write a reply to each. 
From 8 Hawk Street, Schenectady, N. Y., a letter has been received from Jack Loritsch, Ph.D., *39. Jack states that he left Resinous Products In Philadelphia for a more promising position with the Schenectady laboratories of General Electric. He is engaged in synthetic work in resins. Jack was in Detroit for the last A.G.S. meeting where he saw Art KranxfcMer. Ph.D. '38; Jim HcKenna, Ph.D .*39; Bfarc Geerts, Ph.D. '39: Brother Colnm­km, C.5.CX, Ph.D. '37: Jim Danahey, Fh.D. '36; Pat McCosker, PhJ>. '37; Dr. Campbell and Dr. Baldinger, as well as several graduate students. He mentions that Dale Level], *36, of Hishawaka Rubber, stopped in Philadelphia last summer. Jack also reports seeing Hr. and Mrs. Ray Herrly. '36, on his trips to South Bend. 
Art Baam, Fh.D. '39, is being transferred from du Pont's Jackson Laboratory to the Sulfur Colors Area of the Dye Works. Best of luck; Art. 
So far as can be ascertained the only N. D. men 
with low draft numbers are receiving Class 3 de­
ferments. Despite the fact that we are in technical 
work, none of us has received a Class 2 deferment. 
Bob Thomas. 
•THEBEST YEARS OF MY LIFE" 
(Continued from Page 7) 
grovmd is something distinctive, and not all bad. Placement is the most concrete result of this feeling, but there are many other manifestations. 
Patriotically, and in civic and other affairs, Notre Bame men are generating the leadership for which their training prepared them and for which the pres­ent period is particularly appropriate. 
There, roughly, it is Fifteen years ... . Swell associations with Notre Dame and you comfortable home five personal footstep-followers, if they don't listen better.... too much work too many groceries.... too many g^ray hairs .... lots of friends.... nice recognition from professional sources good an­nual reports, even if the ink is red. 
I don't know yet whether I ought to like it or not.... whether I have succeded or failed whether you like it or not . . . whether we have all succeeded or failed. 
But at least all doors are still open. Nothing stands in our way but ourselves. 
ROCKNE DRIVE 
South Bend now has a Rockne Drive. By action of the common council of city, the name of Palmer Drive was recently changed so as to honor the late coach. Rockne Drive is in the north­eastern section of the city. 

NOMINATING COMMITTEES 
of the Alnmiii AsMcUtion, for 1941-42 
(a)
 M. Harry Miller, '10, 2410 Pennsylvania Ave., Wilmington, Del., 

Chairman Ray J. Kelly, '15 Frank Leahy, '31, Boston College AA., Boston, Mass. 

(b)
 Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Calamet Bldg., Hammond, Ind., Chairman-Mai Elward, '17, Dir. of Ath., Pnrdue IT., Lafayette, Ind. Charles Bachman, '17, Michigan State College AA., East Lansing, 


Mich. 

The above committees, announced by President Bay J. Eichenlanb, '15, will nominate an honorary president; and candidates for the presi­dency, two vice-presidencies and a four-year Directors term, to be voted upon by mail ballot in May. 
SYMPHONY AT N.D. 
Leopold StokowsM's famed Philadel­phia, Pa., Symphony Orchestra will cli­max Music Week at the tTniversity with a concert in the University gymnasium on May 2. Whether Stokowski will come here to direct the. orchestra is uncer­tain, because of his duties rehearsing an Ail-American youth orchestra. 
Another Music Week highlight on the campus will feature Miss Rose Bamp­ton, soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Company, who will appear as soloist with the South Bend Symphony Orches­tra on April 28. The Augustana College choir. Rock Island, 111., will present a concert on April 30. 
Music week at Notre Dame will ex­tend this year from April 27 to May 2. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
(Continued from Page 8) 

Congratulating Greg on his newest honor the Religious Bulletin said of him: ". . . he was even better known for Ms masculine piety and great devotion to Christ in the Mass and in the Eucharist, being a daily Communicant throughout his four years. He not only participated in all adoration periods, but volunteered each time to canvass for names." 
Greg dedicates every race to the saint of the day. His favorite patrons, to whom he dedicates his practice ses­sions, are St. Anthony and St. Theresa. 
Graduated with honors as an ac­counting major in 1939, Greg was awarded the Byron V. Kanaley prize at Commencement as the senior mono­gram athlete judged the most exemplary as a student and a leader of men. He had been captain of the track team in his senior year. 
TREATISE ON CRIMES 
A revised edition of A Treatise on Crimes, originally prepared some 40 years ago by Clark and Marshall, has been published by Prof. James J. Kear­ney, '31, of the Notre Dame College of Law. The book is part of a national textbook series which contains works by imi>ortant members of the legal pro­fession and by professors on the law staffs of several American universities. 
Prof. Keamej^s text is the third book 
to be published by a member of the 
Notre Dame law faculty in the last year. 
Prof. WilUam Rollison's Text on Wills 
and Prof. Clarence . Manion's Lessons 
in Liberty are the other two books. 
A tract. Liability of Ecclesiastical 
Persons for Torts, is also being pre­pared for publication by Prof. Kearney. The purpose of this project is to provide ,the clergy of the United States with expert legal advice on problems arising in their daily work. Earlier this year the 
Digest of Church Law Decisions of 
1939, in pamphlet form, was published 
and will appear annually. 
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame archivist and head of the 
Department of History, is the author of 
The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789­
18Si being published 'by the Columbia 
University Press. 
PHYSICISTS SEE MACHINE 
More than a score of physicists from Purdue university. West Lafayette, Ind., and the universities of Indiana, at Bloomington, Illinois, at Chamjiaign, and Notre Dame gathered in Science Hall at the Universify of Notre Dame on Dec. 7 for a regular inter-university seminar. 
The gi'oup examined the Notre Dame physics laboratories and inspected the huge 8,000,000-voIt atom-smashing ma­chine being buOt at Notre Dame. 
» )» 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Gene Barnes and Frank H. Miller, Jr., '32, of Racine. Wis. 
Miss Jean Boyer and John S. Montedonico, '35, of Memphis, Tenn. 
Miss Nancy Thompson and William Fromm, '34, of Racine, Wis. 
Miss Eileen Theresa Alahon and John A. Loritsch. '36. of Schenectady, N. Y. 
Miss Jean Allen and Robert C. McClain, '37, of Peru, Ind. 
Miss Lucille K. McCauley and George E. Keen-en, Jr., '38, of Bayonne, N. J. 
Miss Lillian Jordan and John J. Wilkinson, '40, of South Portland, Maine. 
Marriages 
Miss Dorothy Mary Cavanaugh and Bernard A. Garber, '28, -were married, Jan. 4, in New York City. 
Miss Grace Patricia Breslin and John J. Wing­erter, *28, were married, Jan. 8, in New York City. The ceremony was performed by the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., D.D., '11. Bernard 
K. Wingerter, '26, was best man, and among the attendants were Roger W. Breslin, '28, and Laur­ence A. Wingerter, '28. 
The marriage of Miss Juanita Brumbaugh and Jack Cannon, '30, took place, Dec 23, in Colum­bus, Ohio. Daniel F. Cannon, Jr., '30, served as best man. 
Miss Kathryn Severs and Jack Elder, '30. were married, Jan. 4, in Chicago. 
Miss Alice Nan Heule and Robert L. Smith. Jr., *31. were married, Oct. 19, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Spaulding and James W. Walder, '32. took place, Jan. 14. in Cairo, 111. 
Miss Angela Fatterson and Robert JL Johnston, *33, were married, Nov. 26, in Harrisburg, Pa. 
Miss Betty Raiss and Thomas F. O'Mcara, Jr., '33, were married, Jan. 18, in East Cleveland, Ohio. 
The marriage of Miss Marion Frances Mc-Redmond and J. Walter Kennedy, '34, took place, Nov.' 28, in Stamford, Conn. 
The marriage of Miss Candida Berrios and Robert L. Forbes, Jr., '35, took place, Dec 26, in San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
The marriage of Miss Kathleen Mannion and Arnold B. Blorrison, '35, took place, Nov. 9, in Rochester, N. Y. Frank Morrison, '32, was hest 
Miss Marjorie Walsh and Robert K. Duffy, '37, were married, during the holidays, in Chicago. 
Miss Betty Richard and John C O'Donnell, ex. *37, were married, Dec. 26, in Mishawaka, Ind. 
The marriage of Miss Marjorie Elizabeth Cote and Irvinir J. Superfine, ex. '37, took place. Jan. 3, in South Bend. 
Aliss Evelyn R. Aranco and Edward F. Groffui, Jr., '39, were married Nov. 30. Edward R. Neaher, '37, was best man. 
The marriage of Miss Eleanor de Clercq and Robert W. Hucthcr, '39, took place, Dec 26, in Kansas City, Mo. 
Miss Ida Lee Mathis and James J. Casper, *40, were married, Dec 28,,in Bardstown, Ky. 
Miss Betty Bauer'and Lou Zontini, '40, were married, Nov. 16, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Miss Gretchen Wilson and Edward R. GosTKins, '40, were married, Dec 28. at Notre Dame. 
Births 
CORRECTION: A daughter. Barbara Jane, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Frank Vukovidl, '35, on Sept. 7, in Ironwood, Mich. By error, the Decem­ber ALUMNUS credited the daughter to Frank Wukovits. '38. 
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert P. Valker, '23, an­nounce the birth of' a daughter, Dorothy Grace, on Oct. 22, in Des Moines, Iowa. 
A son was born to' Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Green, '27, on Christmas morning, in Conroe, Texas. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Benda, '28, announce the birth o£ a daughter, on Nov. 29, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Noel Eileen, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Charles R. Riley, '33, on Jan. 12, in Goshen, N. Y. 
A son, James Joseph, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James J. Hartley, '28, on Nov. 27, in Ridgefield Park, N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Hinkel, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on Nov. 23, in New York City. 
A daughter, Georgia Corell, was Ixirn to Mr. and Mrs. J. Randolph Kenny, '32, on Dec 5, in "Winchester, Mass. 
Twin daughters -were lx)rn to Mr. and Mrs. William Cannon, '33, on Jan. 13, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard C Carton, '33, announce the birth of a son, on Dec 11, in Orange. N. J. 
A son n-as bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ziemnnd Kit­kowski, '33, on Jan. 10. in South Bend. 
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Caton, ex. '34, announce the birth of a daughter, Dec 16, in South Bend. 
A son, John Anthony, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Pngliese. '34, on Dec 7, in New York City. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Decry. '36. announce the birth of a son, Michael Francis, on Nov. 10, in Indianapolis. 
A son. Michael Herbert, -was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Francis M. Joyce, '36, on Nov. 7, in Milford, Del. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Daniel De-Forcst, '37, on Dec 28, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Leonard, '38, announce the birth of a son, Robert Patrick, Jr., on Sept. 20, in Wilmington, Del. 
Deaths 
Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C.S.C.. A.B. '04, 64 years old. former prefect of discipline and direc­tor of studies at Notre Dame and one of the most widely known and most popular priests of the Congreation of Holy Cross, died in New Orleans on Dec 30 after a brief illness from influenza. He was pastor of Sacred Heart Church there. 
From the time of his ordination in 1909 until 1929. and again from 1933 until 1937, Father Burke was associated with Notre Dame, as pro­fessor of history, prefect of discipline and direc­tor of studies. From 1925 until 1931 he was pres­ident of St. Edward's University. Austin, Texas, and, from 1931 to 1933, was head of St. Thomas 

Rev. Joseph H. Burke, CS.C. 

Military Academy, S t Paul, Minn. For the per­iod between 1933 and 1937 he served on the cam­pus as rector of Dillon Hall and superior of the Community Infirmary. In 1937 he was made pastor of St. Bernard's Parish, Watertown, Wis., and last July was transferred to the New Or­leans pastorate. 
Father Burke was buried in the Community cemetery at Notre Dame on Jan. 4. following a solemn requiem Mass in Sacred Heart Church celebrated by Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, CS.C, president of the University. Archbishop J. F. Rummel had pontificated at the requiem Mass in New Orleans. 
Among Father Burke's sur\*iving relatives are his brother. Frank P. Burke. '03, and his nephew, John J. Burke, '35, both of Milwaukee. 
Word of the death, on Jan. 7; of Samuel D. Newning, Ph.B. '14, Corpus Christi, Texas, was thoughtfully sent to the Alumni Oflice by Clyde K.Broussard. '13. Beaumont, Te.\as. Mr. Newning was a brother of Harry Ne^vning. '14, Mexico City. Mexico. The latter, with his mother, had stopped in Beaumont to see Mr. Broussard on Jan. 12. 
"The 'Newning boys'," says Mr. Broussard. "and their sister. Margaret, who was a student at St. Mary's at the same time, had a host of friends among the students of both schools." Both the "boys" were varsity baseball players at Notre Dame. 
Maarice D. McNulty, LL.B. *26, Muncie, Ind., was the victim of a head-on automobile collision on Jan. 15. Suftering a broken neck, he died in­stantly. Sam, as he ^vas familiarly known, is survived by his wife, the former Ann Carroll of St. Mary's, by three daughters and two sons, his mother, four brothers and a sister. He was bur­ied in Indianapolis on Jan. IS after a requiem Mass in St. Peter and Paul's Cathedral. 
Sam represented the Underwriters Adjust­ment Co. in Muncie and had recently attended a reorganization meeting there of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana. He attended the Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, taught by the Brothers of Holy Cross, before coming to Notre Dame in 1922. 
Mail addressed to Francis G. Farrell, B. Arch., '30, Pittsburgh. Pa., was recently marked "de­ceased" by the post office, and returned. 
John T. Sexton, A.B. 'S3, of Indianapolis, mem­ber of a widely known "Notre Dame family," died on Nov. 27 in Tucson, Ariz., where he had resided for two months. Surviving him are his • wife and daughter, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Timothy Sexton, his brothers, Joseph F. '26. and 
W. Lawrence, '33, and his sister. Mary Cather­ine, all of Indianapolis. John was an attorney for the gross income tax department of the state of Indiana. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Tucson assisted in local funeral arrangements. Burial was in Indianapolis, following a requiem Mass in S t Peter & Paul's Cathedral. 
Kevin J. Byrne, ex. '37, Seneca Falls. N. Y., a member of the New York state police, died in Geneva, N. Y.. on Jan. 5, according to a note from Joseph T. Debott, *2S, of Geneva. 
James Carey Davis, ex. '41, "Winnetka. 111., a member of the Black Horse Troop, 106th cavalry regiment, was killed in an automobile accident near Alexandria. La., on Jan. 11, according to newspaper dispatches. He was in federal military training along with other members of the Illi­nois National Guard. 
James L. McWeeny, 68 years old, Gillespie, 111., football and wrestling coach at Notre Dame in 1890-00, died on Dec. 23 as the result of severe injuries suffered in an automobile accident on Dec. 11. Upon leaving Notre Dame Mr. Mc­Weeny joined the South Bend police department, ser\-ing as police chief from 1902 to 1910. He had been a wrestler of national reputation. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Francis J. Bon, '26, upon the death of his mother: George Rcilly, '33, upon the death of his brother; Joseph J. Bricn, '37, upon the death of his mother: Eugene F. Ling, *37, upon the death of his father: Pan] WaddelU '39, upon the death of his mother: William J. Hannan. '40, upon the death of his brother. 
Personals 
P. E. Barke, '88, 301 Before 189Q Camp, New- Orleans, La. 
From Mrs. Betty Cox, of Bellingham, Washing­ton, comes a reminder of her father, Simon James Craft, a Notre Dame graduate of 1888 with a Litt.B. degree. Mr. Craft died May 16, 1927. 
IftOA 9 0 ^^*^' ^' ' ^ MacKamara, '97, I OTU"T T g^int Joseph's Sanitariam, Hoant Clemens, Midiiffan. 
Father MacNamara sends along another epistle recalling a few memories of those "gay but hazy" *90*s. Writes Father Mac: 
"Not much news for the 'Alumnus.' Joe Nangh­ton, of New York City, one of the famous basket­ball team in '07 when Father Steiner was a mem­ber, is in poor health and I hope all the old timers will say a prayer for him. I think Father Steiner, Bill Kcgler and he are all that are living of that team, which, I believe, was the first to represent Notre Dame. 
"I had letters from Sherman Steele and Joe Sullivan, both of '97. and they are looking forward to the centenary in 1942 and 'hoping* for 1947." 
Robt. E. Proctor, '04, Honker 

1900-04 
Batldinr, Elkhart, Indiana. 
Rev. Tikomas E. Barke, C.S.C 

1905-09 
*07, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

Paul Martin'Dillon, better known in Notre Dame circles as Paul R. Martin, *09, has been appointed managing editor of "The Evening Times" at Cumberland, Md. He left Washington, D.C., where he had been for over two years, Nov, 8, and has now established a home in Cumber­land. "The Evening Times" is one of the oldest and best known newspapers in Maryland. Paul reports that Neil Farrell, *35, of Memphis, re­cently called on him. He is selling ne\vspai>er syndicate matter for King Features. Paul is like­wise in close touch with Pat Conway, '30, who is director of athletics and a teacher of history at LaSalle Institute. Cumberland. 
I Q1I 1 Rc^- ^L ^ Bloriarty. St. Burr's Church, 
•'•* » Mentor, Ohio. 
19 1 1 ^" ^ Steers. 1666 First National Bank ' ' " ' Building, Chicago, Illinois. 
1912 °' ^' ^^^^' ^^^ Fourth St, Pitt*­
• ' • ^ burgh, Pennsylvania. 
191 3 ^^"^ ^ Byrne, University Library. 1 7 1 ^ Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Paul R. Byrne, University librarian, is one of the editors of a guide to Catholic literature ,"A Reading List for Catholics," recently published by the Catholic Library association. Mr. Byrne com­piled the section on "general reference." 
I91d ^'^^ ^' H^yes* ^ 2 Third Are., 
• ' • ^ Chola Vista. CaUfomia. 
I A I C James E. Sanford, 3725 Clinton Are., 
• ' " Berwyn, Illinois. 
Arthur R. Carmody, we're delighted to hear, has been made president of the .North Central Texas Oil Co., 407 Commercial National Bank BIdg., Shreveport. La, Art has been vice-president of this company for a number of j-ears. 
Albert A. Kuhle, regional representative. Bureau of Old Age and Survivors Insurance, spoke before P^f. Louis Buckley's "Labor Problems" class re­cently on the subject of "Practical Problems In­volved in the Administration of Old Age and Sur­vivors Insurance." Al is the representative for Illinois. Indiana and Wisconsin with o^ices in the U, S. Court House. Chicago. 
A review of George N. Shuster's "The English Ode from Milton to Keats," published by Colum­bia, appeared in the Dec. 7 issue of "The Com­monweal." This work of Dr. Shuster, who is pres­ident of Hunter College, New York City, is said to be "probably one of the best written" of all his books. 
Ernest P. La Joie, former Circuit judge of De­troit, announced his candidacy for the Circuit Court bench at the spring primary. Ernie, who served as a captain in the field artillery in the first World War. lives at 18050 Wildemere avenue with his wife and four children, 
Tom Heam. Los Angeles, is hospitalized in St. Vincent's as a result of being struck in October by an auto which broke both legs. 
1916 TiaMdv P. GaMa. Rn t Tnut bw, Huaawad, IndiaBa. 
AOen H. "Blal" Elward was recently appointed athletic director at Purdue University to fill the vacancy left by the death of Noble Kizer, '25, who died last summer. Hal will continue as head coach of the Boilermakers. He took over Iiis new duties Feb. 1. 
Your secretary, Timothy P. Galvin, Hammond, Ind., lawyer, was elected supreme master of the fourth degree. Knights of Columbus, at the quar­terly meeting of the Order's supreme board of directors held in Bichmand, Va. Hm is a supreme director of the K. of C. 
191 T ^^"^ ^ J- HcOsfcer, 3309 FainMOit ' ' • ' Bird., Cleveland Heists, Ohio. 
Protesting that he has been "the worst slacker of all" as far as contributions to the "Alumnus" are concerned, Ed McOsker sends in the following letter from Georce ^anahan. People's Fuel and Supply Company, 432 N. Main St., Lima, OMo: 
"The voice of '17 has been qmet for many months and I hope this whisper from one of the guilty will be the forerunner of a mighty roar from the others who should have given you a lift long ago. I have something special to tell yon, or I probably would continue to be a backslider. 
"My number one son entered Holy Cross Semi­nary in September and it goes without saying that I am very happy in knowing that he has cast his lot with the order that will let him use 
C.S.G. after his name, some day. 
"There are two more boys and two fprls still at home. The senior of the outfit just passed her nineteenth birthday and the freshman is David, just past four. We will be washing dirty hands and faces for several years at our house. 
"I have been on the campus several times since June, but have not had much luck in meeting any of our class and none of the '17ers ever pass this way, 
"Ed, a word from you would be appreciated and I, for one, would like to see a page or two in the 'Alumnus* devoted to news from members of the 
•war class.' " Ed adds congratulations to George on being "the first member of the class (so far as I know) to send a son into the Order of Holy Cross. . . . t met Leo Vogel and his mother on the street in Pittsburgh recently and hope I can get together with Leo for lunch, at least, when I am in his town one of these trips." 
Dr. J. Philip Boylan, 1088 P^fc Avenue, New York City, is one of New York's leading obste­tricians. 
m Qm O John A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive, 
• ' • *• Escanaba, Hichlffan. 
Rev. Bbtthew A. Coyle, C.S.C, University De­partment of English, has been appointed official chronicler for the Congregation of Holy Gross by Rev. Hngh O'DonneD, CS.C, preddent of the University. Father Coyle's duties will be to record and file all ecclesiastical, social, academic and other significant occurrences vital to Notre Dame life. 
Notre Dame and Elgin, 111., have new pride in Humas J. Hoban with the recent announce­ment that he is now vice-president of the Chica­go Title & Trust Co., 69 West Washington St . Chicago, one of the nation's leading companies of its kind. Tom moved up from the title of general attorney. Retaining his home in Elgin through all the years, Tom was judge of the city courts there a few years ago, as well as exalted ruler of the Elgin Lodge of Elks. He is also president of the Kane County Title Co., Geneva, DI. 
1919 Chrence Bader. C5( Pince Stimt. Garr. bdiana. 
lO^ A Leo a Wmtd, 1012 Black Bldg., Los 
Vince Faran, Notre Dame Department of Archi­tecture, was elected president of the South Bend chapter of the Indiana Society of Architects at a recent meetins. Callix Miller, '21, was elected one of the society's directors. 
Another new vice-president in Chicago is an­other Thomas from Notre Daine. (See 1918 news.) Tliomas H. Beacom, Jr., has just been advanced from the position of assistant vice-president of the First National Bank of Chicago, one of the country's biggest, to the post of ^ce-president. Notre Dame is happy with him in his rise. Tom has been in bank work in Chicago most of the years since he finished in Law at Har\'ard in 1923. (There was an interim, back in 192S-30, when he was out in Wichita, Kans.) At Notre Dame, Tom was president of his senior class, first president of the Student Activities Council and an editor of the "Scholastic" and of the "Dome." 
«0^ « Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Terminal Tower, 
• ' ^ * aeveland, Ohio. 
109 9 Gerald Ashe, 46 West Avenne, Hilton, 
' '•* N. Y. 
From Kid Ashe: 
The first appointment made by Governor-elect 

Hurley of Connecticut was important news to men 
of '22 for it directly concerned one of our class­
mates — James E. Murphy of Bridgeport. Jim is 
the governor's new executive secretary. 
Jim matriculated at N.D. in the fall of 1916, but enlisted in the army in April, 1917, shortly after this country entered the World War. He became a a«)tain in May, 1918, and was com­manding officer of Company F. 113th supply train, which he led overseas. After the Armistice, Jim resumed his studies at Notre Dame. He was always prominent in general class activities as well as those of his o\vn College of Law, from whicli he was graduated. He has practiced law in Bridgeport since 1923 and has been active in Democratic politics. 
Hearty congratulations, Jim! 

CYRIL B. GAFFNEY—Firefighter Scene: The New Britain, Conn., home of Cyril 
B. Gaffney, prominent barrister. 

Characters: Papa Gaffney and Junior Gaffney. 
The elder Gaffney was in complete charge of 
things in the absence of Mrs. Gaffney. He was 

deeply absorbed in Blackstone, or maybe "Life." Junior Gaffney: "Heh, Daddy I There's a fire!" Papa Gaffney: "O.K., son. Let her burn." 
The obedient son thought that fair enough, but 
having repaired about his business he returned 

soon again to sound a second alarm. Junior Gaffney: "Say, Daddy. Didn't you hear me? There's a fire!" Papa Gaffney: "O.K.. son. Let her burn, I say." Junior Gaffney: "But the fire is in our house. 
Daddy." 
Now that did seem to make a world of difference 
to the barrister whose composure is not easily disturbed. He quickly organized himself into a one*man fire department and extinguished the blaze. At least that is the story as heard by your reporter. We invite corrections, if any, from friend Gaffney. 

We have football to thank for news of move­ments of some classmates whom we have not heard from in other activities recently. 
Morgan Siucdy of Pittsburgh traveled to Los Angeles for the Southern Cal game on the West­ward Ho! special. Eddie Byrne accompanied the Ibmphis speoal to N.D. for the Iowa game. Eddie lives in Natdiez, Miss. From Portland. Ore., 
Chuck Hindibiihl set out for L.A. and the Southern Cal contest. And what's more, he made it. 
Eddie Dundon of Iron Mountain, Mich., was at Evanston for the combat with Northwestern. We received a letter postmarked Waterloo, Iowa, from George Henesban. He was on a business trip, and expected to call on Albin Rhombers, city mana-' ger of Dubuque, also on Joe Rhombers who is a successful business man in the same city. 
Dr. Dan Sexton of St. Louis favored us with a long letter about doings in St. Louis and vicinity. Dan is a regular attendant at most of the large medical conventions. Clcttu Lyndi visited his home in Meridcn, Conn., for the holidays. Rev. Father George Fischer. CS.C, of the Holy Cross Misaon band, North Easton, Mass., spent Christmas at home in Rochester, N. Y. 
I QO^ ^'^ ^ Castner, 137 South Are., New ' '" ^ Canaan. Connecticut. 
Rev. Joseph McAllister, G.S.C, member of the Mission Band, recently addressed the South Bend Inter-Faith Amity committee in the Bend on the fundamentals of faith in the Roman Catholic church. 
When Roger KUey, former grid great, assumed office as judge of the superior court of Cook county. 111.. (Chicago) Rev. John J. Caranaui^ CS.C, vice-president of the University, repre­sented Notre Dame at the impressive ceremonies. Rog has been prominent in Chicago for years, as an attorney and as an alderman. Congratulations to him! 
Establishment of a state defense program is provided in a bill drawn by State Senator and Professor Eugene J. Payton, South Bend demo­crat, which was introduced in the state senate when the general assembly reconvened. Gene is critically ill from a stomach ailment, as this is written, and is confined to St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. Prayers are needed. 
Congratulations are in order to Stanley Brad­bury, Robinson, III., who was re-elected state's attorney of Crawford county. 
The promotion of a textbook, "Basic Principles of Constitutional Money," for state-wide adoption by the Illinois Teachers Association is being carried forth by Anthony M. Jaduon, of As­sumption, III. 
I Q^A J- F- Hayes. 393 7th Arc, BOOH ISIS, I TA H jjew York City. 
Another of New York City's leading obstetri­cians is Dr. John Rearden. 229 East 79th street. John office is at 910 Park Avenue. 
Jim Swift, Dallas, Texas, lawyer, is keeping in touch with a few of the lads of *24. He writes that he had a visit with Oven Desmond recently and passes' on the information that Dr. Paal Craden will ser\*e the army as an eye, ear, nooe and throat specialist for one year at San An­tonio. Jim ran down Tom Hodgson and Slim L>*nard in Minnesota last summer and says that Bob Scoggins and Nat Powers are holding forth in Houston. 
IQOC ^^^ P- Hurley, 2085 BrooUale BMI , 
From John Hurley: "Your secretary had to wait until he nude Ma furniture market trip to Chicago before he dns Tip any *25 news. 
"I talked with Jade Scallan and he and hit family are well. He has been so busy selling raO­road equipment that he doesn't see many of the boys. Jack didn't tell me this, but he is <me of the big cogs in the Pullman Standard Stad Gar Company. Jack said that Joe SieUy is solnK ercat guns at the Chicago Title and IVnst Company. 
"AI Sommer, who is in the advertianff bnriness in Cleveland, gave a talk on advertising and mer­chandising at Toledo University just before the holidays. I had another engagement that evening, so I didn't hear it, but from paper reports, it was very well received. 
"A Christmas card from the Leonard Hess' tells me that all is well down Texas way and that they are still talking about the reunion. I say 'they' because you remember Mrs. Hess came all the way from Texas to give the '25 boys a big 'hello.' 
"Called Leo Powers while in Chicago but missed him, so I left word with his secretary to be sure to have him send me information he might have on the '25 boys in the Chicago district for the next issue. I will be looking for that letter, Leo. and let's hear from some of the rest of you fel­lows throughout the country. 
Harrr Stuhldrefaer, head football coach at Wis­consin, recently addressed the Niles. Mtch., high school gridders at their annual banquet. 
Thomas F. Mahcr ser\'es on the Detroit bench as traffic judge. 
lA^ Z Ja»es A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St., I TA O Chicago, nUnois. 
Sencr Ronan must be deep in the new Chica­go subway preparing his reunion letter to the class. (Ah, yes, lest you forget, there is to be a reunion of the *26ers this year! May 30. June 1 and 2 are the dates. Fifteen years ago. believe it or not, since we fled before the elements into Sacred Heart Church to hear the late Judge Wooten.) 
But, despite Ronan's bomb shelter concentration, there is reunion news. El Mahoney. secretary of the Indianapolis Club, in winging in a report on club activities, added this: 
"Tell Jim Ronan the Indianapolis Club will try to have 100 per cent representation at the 15­year reunion this year, including Jim Bowen, Stan Boyle, Henry Frommeyer, Chariey Blason, Ed Neal, Louis O'Connor, Tommy O'Connor. Claud Pitsenberger, Tino Poggiano, Mike Red­dington, Joe Sexton and Paul Skelley. I haven't cont«Rted them all yet, but am sure they will all be there if it is at all possible." 
And Dan O'Neill, when he was here a few weeks ago on the return trip from Montana, pledged the attendance of a large slice of the *26 New Jerseyites. Which is important because the '26 New Jerseyites are a considerable portion of the class, as you doubtless remember. Dan, after a satisfactory "screen test" at Mayo's and a 15­pound rest in Montana, was on his way to his utility job in Newark and to entrust his stomach' to the tender mercies of Doc Hayes. 
Elsewhere in this issue you will read of the elevation of one John Arthur Haley to a new-post in the University official life. The old dis­penser of 10-yard line seats is now well settled in his new office, 101 Main Building, just inside the front door. Swell spot for class headquarters come spring! 
Haley and AI Meyers, you remember, were members of the Glee Club quartet back in those 
g.o. days. Well, in the best Ripley tradition, the two of them are out in front in the '26 news these days. Reynal & Hitchcock. Inc., recently announced the publication of Al's mystery novel, "Murder Ends the Song." Says the announce­ment regarding the book, "It involves the not untimely end of a frayed canary (antique colora­tura soprano to you) on tour with the Monte Calvo Opera Company. TTie simple instrument elected for the demise by Mr. Meyers was a steel knitting needle, deftly inserted between the ver­tArae of her neck, which in the circumstances was a very appropriate point of contact" 
Since that rain-swept afternoon in June of '26, AI has sung in the chorus of a Shubert oper­etta, sold bis first short story, returned to N.D. to teach and receive his Uaster*s, sung in the chorus of the San Francisco Opera Company, 
•written a play -whidi was produced at Reed College, and won the prize in the Portland C^vic Theater's contest for Oregon authors. He is now residing at 1340 Taylor St.. San Francisco. 
Bob Worth, *25, of Indianapolis, reported on a squad of the '26ers when he stopped in for a chat one morning. Sam McNuUy's tragic death the day before was, unhappily, his chief item. About that, you'll read more under "Deaths," in this issue. Say a prayer for Sam and for the large family he left behind. 
Bob also said that Joe Sexton, of Indianapolis, had lost his race for state senator in the No­vember election when a voting machine in one precinct counted incorrectly. Investigation proved the machine's unfortunate behavior and Joe, at the time of Bob's visit, was engaged in trying to have the Senate seat him on the basis of affi­davits from voters in the erring precinct. Joe had served two terms in the Senate. 
Bob had seen lately in Chicago that old fresh­man president of the smooth smile. Mark Mooney. Mark, Bob said, is 'way up there with the Car­rier Corporation (air conditioning) serving as branch manager for the Chicago-St Louis-Kansas City territory. 
The magnificent accomplishments of the late Wllbar M^lroy are just now coming to Kght— at least to the light that shines upon the "Alum­nus" office. The modest Mac would not, of course, tell anything about himself, and nobody else did. 
The following story from the Montclair (N.J.) "Times" of Jan. 10 gives some idea of the achievements of one of the class' ablest members: 
"The art department of the Montclair "Women's Club again takes pleasure in exhibiting for the month of January at the clubhouse, the paintings of the late Wilbur J. McElroy. 
"Mr. McElroy was graduated from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and studied at the Arts Student League in New York. He spent two years in Tahiti and Dalmatia and lived in Green­land Cove near Darmiscotta. Me., for the five years previous to his death in November of last year. 
"Mr. McElroy's followers are \i-idespread. Some of his paintings are in the Wightman Art Gallery. University of Notre Dame, and in the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Arts, Kansas City, and several galleries in New England. 
"Mr. McElroy had an extensive reputation as a navigator and built his own twenty-six foot sloop in which he set up his studio and sailed up and down the coast of Maine. He did most of his work at sea. 
"He created quite a sensation last winter wiien he sailed this boat from Medomac, Me., to Palm Beach, Fla. On this trip he touched the Bermuda Capes and was seldom in sight of the Atlantic shore line. He wrote and illustrated a story of this unusual voyage in the September issue of 'Motor Boating.' He has done most of the covers of this magazine for many years and illustrated many of the articles. 
**It is certain all lovers of art will enjoy this exhibition." 
 H. Bolud. AtkMie OMci. 

1927 JoMI* 
Notn Daae, tofiana. 

Promotedt recently to the office o£ vice-presi­dent of the Fort Wayne, Ind., National Bank was nana s A. HcKiernan. Tom is one of the most ardent Notre Dame men in a city of many Notre Dame men, and his new success is welcome news on the campus. 
NeO Becam is now in New Yorlc City with the 
The Notre Dame Alumiius 
United States Casualty, moving from North Car­olina where he represented the same company. Neil, who was on the campus in late November, had seen Jack Reidy and John Batler in Cleve­land and John Morsdies, in Fort Wayne, Ind. Neil is married and has one child. 
1928 ^'^'"^ ^* Bnddey. Box 124, N«Cr« DtMb 
From Lou Buckley: 
Again we meet the deadline with enough mate­rial for two deadlines, thanks to our guest writer Congressman Bob Grant, and the men who re­sponded to his request for news. In case we cannot find room enough in this issue for all the letters which Bob sent, we will save a few for next month. Some of the letters presented are cut down a bit for the sake of space. 
Lou Carr tried his best to get some response from the engineers but had to meet the deadline without a single reply from the men to whom he had Ti^Titten. Lou is wondering whether the engi­neers, due to the defense program, are making so much money that they are afraid that by pub­lishing it in a magazine will subject themselves to an excess tax. I should like to suggest that the engineers make up for the failure of some of their colleagues by writing to Lou dr r at the Coast Cities Coaches. Inc., Third Ave. at Route 35, Nep­tune City, N. J., so he will be able to send on some material for our next deadline, Feb. 15. 
I want also to thank Dick Donochae for the blow he gave this column in the 1930 column in the December "Alumnus" and hope that he finds guESt writers in his class like Bob Grant as well as the other men who have served as '28 guest writers in the ?:ast. 
There are just two notes I would like to add before I give you the first edition of Bob Grant*a collection. You will note in the marriage column where our old friend Bemie Garber was married in New York. Congratulations! 
Mike Ricks has become a member of the firm of Stuart, Deval, Branigin & Ball with offices at 801 LaFayette Life Bldg.. LaFayette, Ind. 
- John Fontana and John Carlin have been select­ed as guest writers for our next issue. Give them the same fine cooperation which was given Bob Grant this month. 
Now for Bob Grant's fine contribution. Our thanks for the good work. Bob. 
From Bob Grant: Bill Jones and Bill Daffy are authority for the statement that the two of them, together with Bill Gronin and your correspondent, constitute the entire contingent o.f '28 men in Washington at the present time. 
Bob Graham left the S.E.C. here last fall and is now in New York with the auditing firm of Arthur Anderson & Co. Bill Cronin still lives in New York and goes back and forth week-^nds while holding down his job here with the Post­master General. Bill Cronin is the father of three fine children. Bill Duffy is now practicing law in the Woodward Building here in Washington and is the proud father of a daughter of 13 months. 
As reported in the December issue of the "Alum­nus." the Notre Dame contingent in Congress was increased to four by the addition of Jaagph 
P. O'Hara, '20, of Glencoe, Hinn. Joe is a Repub­lican and, when added to your correspondent, helps balance the party scales against the Demo­crats; Vlnce Harrington, of Iowa, class of '25, and Senator Worth Clark. '22, of Idaho. 
After yon gave-me the assignment to work on the column, I sent out some letters and received some mighty fine replies. I will give them to yon . herewith. And success of this effort is due to the splendid help of those who wrote me. ^e y are as follows: 
2i 

Oilsty Haaacaa writes from deep down in the sunny Southland: 
"Since '36 I have been in the above business (Christie Flanagan and Company, 202-203 Adams Building. Port Arthur, Texas) with my father. Before then I coached at the various places that you are aware of. I am happily married and the father of four—two girls and two boys, the latest addition, Hichael Bruce, born Nov. 8, 1940. I bear from quite a few NJ). boys all over and have visits from some. Pat Canny was with us a while " last year and EIsMr Besten last summer. Backy DahMan wrote to say to expect him some time this month. 
"I try my best to help all the Notre Dame coaches who come into this neck of the woods to win their games, but sometimes fail, as was the case of Crowky. However, maybe I can be of more assistance in the future. Heard from Hugh MeCaffeiy, who is stationed in Hawaii. Says he will be back in the States in March." 
Gearte Kdley, 432 Lexington Avenue. Youngs­town Ohio, reported the following: 
"John W. Kickord. '28, has just been trans­ferred back to Chicago by Armour and Company, after nearly four years in St. Louis, which is something of a record in permanence for Bickord since he went to Armour's 10 or 11 years ago..." 
And Art Canty, who is practicing law at 810 South Spring St , (way up on the eleventh floor) Los Angeles, Oalif., wrote the following: 
.. . I have seen Joe Daley, who is connected in the printing business here with his dad. Chadic Maiphy, who is with the Bank of America. Jim OToole with H.GJK., and Ed Canningham. the ­
undertaker. Hese fellows were all at the smoker the night before the S.C. game. . . ." 
And Bart Toepp. who is still with us in South Bend (Associates Investment (^mpany) reported as follows: 
". . . My old friend. William O'Neil. formerly of Cleveland, is now residing at Syracuse. N. Y.. where he and his brother. Hugh, are operating a trucking company. You might incorporate in your letter to Mr. BacUey that I saw Frands Strohm last summer, and he seems to be prospering and now living off the State of Ohio. I believe he is employed by Ohio State Tax Division. 
"You might make inquiry as to what happened to our old friend Chick HcGndin. of Akron. Ohio. . I would also like to know the whereabouts of Boh 
Winter. Chicago." 
Dave Gihson, the flash from Plymouth. Ind., writes from 1222 E. Cameta Drive, San Gabriel. Calif., as follows: 
". . . There are a number of fellows out here from school that I run into occasionally and since names make copy here are a few that I recall at random. E. C. CalhoBn, 1932, is with the Suits in­terests on the coast, as is Paal Bahley. 1934. BiB ClaAe. 1927. is connected with an insurance com­pany, which I believe is a subsidiary of Sears-Roebuck. Taa Canty, of your law class (the slen­der red-headed one) was with Prudential Insur­ance, law department, the last time I saw him. 
"I do hear from Bemie Garher, yes indeed, — once a year at (%ristmas time. — this last Christ­mas from New York at about the same address on 
'119th street. I haven't seen him for ahoot eight years, when I was working in New York myself. 
"As for myself, I have been with Howard Auto­mobile Company, world's largest distributor of antomohiles (Seabiscuit Howard, as he is known in these here parts), Los Angeles for the past year and have been able to keep off the bread Unes. 
Caeaa Hatch is at 8006 Hillerest Ave.. Elkina Park, Pa. Glenn writes: 
"Yonr letter was indeed a pleasure and I am disappointed that I can't be of more service to the '28 sang. You see. Bob, I have been ill for the past nine months and am now just getting back on my feet. Although I see a few of the Notre Dame men now and then, I have not had any contacts with *28ers. 
"Now that I am well on the mend I hope to get over to New York in the near future and see if I can't get that old Hamilton-Hartley-Hatch combi­nation together for lunch. . . ." 
Ceol Alexander, formerly of Mishawaka, is now representative for the Equitable lafe Assurance Society of the United States, and has his offices at Suite 505, 29 South LaSalle St., in Chicago. He writes: 
". . . Ray MnlUean. who graduated in '28, is at the present time the chairman of the executive ccmmittee for the Alumni Glee Club which they call the Notre Dame Victory Singers. They have an extremely active organization and are about to give their second annual concert which will take place Sunday afternoon, March 23, at the Stude­baker Theatre. Among the members of tlte *28 class 
•who are in the Glee Club are Frank Creadon, Ray MoUiffan and Ray Lawler, and I understand they are among the most active in the organization. The director of the club is Bob Childe who also directs the singing of the Carnation Hour. Among the more active, prominent members of the club are Joe Henneberry, class of *23, who I understand is greatly responsible for the organization and suc­cess of the club. The soloists are E. Fitzgerald Gore, class of *31, tenor soloist, and George Me­nard, class of '34, who is a baritone. 
*^Ray Hnlligan, as you know, has a very respon­sible position with the Chicago TiUe and Trust Company, who seem to have a great many Notre Dame men. As for myself. Bob, still plug^ng along trying to make an honest dollar now and then. ..." 
Bill Konop, tax attorney for the Indiana Bell Telephone Company in Indianapolis, writes: 
". . . liast month I wrote Augie Grams of La-Crosse. Wis., what little I knew. Since then I have received a wedding announcement from Fort Wayne concerning Frank McCarthy, who is with Van Camp Milk Company there, and was a center in our day. He was married on Dec. 28 at the Log Chapel to a Fort Wayne girl. 
"I'll give you a list of the '28 men around here, taken from our local directory with their employ­ment. I am not well acquainted with some of them. Jim Boehning, single. State Unemployment Compensation Division; Harold Cosgrovc, Univer­sal Credit Company; Ed Cunningham, married, Phillips Petroleum Co.; Frank Douthitt, Kenneth 
L. Fox Co.; Frank Fitzgerald, Grain Dealers Mu­tual Insurance Co.; Johnny Glaska, single, Indiana Bell Telephone Co.; B. X. Gremillion, married, Indiana Bell Telephone Co.; Louis Hutchinson, In­diana office. National Emergency Council. 
'*Bob Kirbr. married, Kirby Mortuary; Bill Lep­pert, W. A. Brennan, Inc.; Bcmie Loeffler, mar­ried, Indiana Bell Telephone Co.; Fred Pfortner, Indianapoljs Power and Light Co.; Truman Bem­boscii, Franklin, Ind., Syndicate Theatres; Charlie Riley, married. State Gross Income Tax Division: Paul Rowe, attorney; Tom Rnckelshans, married. Red Cab Co. 
•*Joe Hilgcr, from Columbus, married, and in his fethcr's department store, is up here once in a while. Erby has five children — probably the class record. He has been secretary to the Embalming Board, but the pending state reorganization here will probably change that. John Mahoney was down here last summer for our golf-dinner. He is in Chicago with a finance company, and married. I had a Christmas card from John Fontana, Colum­bus, Ohio, formerly of Gallipolis. . . .** 
Jerry DeClercq, the former Villager, from Standard Brands, Inc., 327 South LaSalle St., Chicago: 
*'. . . William H. Leahy, Jr., is in Chicago and has been for better than a year now, vorkins with the Pet Milk Company. You will, undoubtedly recall that Bill is from St. Louis and was with the Pet Milk Co. there. Bill and I get together occasionally, and he is still the same old BilL Has one boy. Michael, who is a chip off the old block. 
"Had a Christmas card from J. Carroll Pinkley, who is still in single harness and is now down in his home to^vn, Ftortagerille, Mo. You will recall that Pink and Bill Leahy were roommates. 
*'Bob Xickells, formerly of Henderson, ^. , is now in Chicago working for Cooper, Kanaley ft Co.. of which Byron V. Kanaley, '04, is pre^dent. Had a 'phone call from Bob a few days before Christmas and he reported that he was getting along very nicely and that his son, Lynn, was scheduled to sing in a boys' choir duriner the Christmas holidays, which greatly pleased Bob as he was a singer of sorts himself in his hey-day. 
"Have talked to Ray Lnsson, who is a buyer for the Board of Education, Bureau of Lunch Rooms, here in Chicago. Ray is getting along fine, and when talking to him today, checking up on his latest activities, he advised that on Aug. 6 Geraldine Ann arrived, which now brings his total children up to two, as he already had a boy who is now now about five years old. Ilie last time I saw Ray he was in the pink of condition, and I am planning on getting together with him shortly, as I just found out we are practically neighbors, both living on the South side of Chi­cago, and not so terribly far apart. 
"I see William P. Kearney, whom you will un­doubtedly recall, as he was a Law student also, only on rare occasions, and the last time was at the Universal Notre Dame Night. Outside of put­ting on a little weight, he is the same as always, and getting along in great shape, being a member of the firm of Jarecld. Brantigam, Korzcnedd tt Kearney, lawyers. He is also an assistant states attorney in Chicago. 

"Bill Kearney's running mate, Bernard J. Kor^ zeneski, w*hom you will recall as Bert, in addition to being in the same law firm with Bill Kearney, is also holding down the job of titie examiner in the Recorder's office. Bert has changed. When he loses that one hair — pfft — billiard ball. Haven't seen Bert since the last Universal Notre Dame Night. 
"Dick Phelan is 'trust counsel' for the Chicago Htle and Trust Co., Chicago. Dick has been mar­ried for some time, but I cannot give yoa any accurate information as to the number of the family at the present time. Likewise I haven't seen Dick since the last Universal Notre Dame Night. 
"Will appreciate your saying 'hello* to your efficient secretary. Tom Bath, for me. as I haven't seen him since five years ago last June, when he issued my marriage license to me at the St. Joe County Court House in South Bend. . . ." 
Jade Canizaro (James T. Canizaro. A.IJL Archi­tect, Lampton Bldg., Jackson, Miss., to his bna­ness associates) of piccolo fame from the days of the Notre Dame band, writes: 
"Being in the deep south. I am fully out of contact with most of the Notre Dame activities, but I will try to give you the news pertaining to Notre Dame men around this vicinity. I was in Vicksburg a few days and had a nice evening with Robert F. Evans, '28, and his wife. He is running his father's business, Mis^ssippi Ijumber Company. Two years ago I built a mnnicipa! audi­torium and a tire factory for the city of Natdiez, of which W. J. Bs^me, '19, is mayor. He was just inaugurated a few days ago for another term. 
Frank L, Byrne, '25, brother to W. J. Byrne; is working for the mayor in his insurance ofl^ce. 
"I see WUUam H. Bfiller, '30, very often. He is here in Jackson with his father-in-law in the fur­niture business. He lives only about a half block from me. He has two ^rls. Bill is quite active in Jackson. Up until about one week ago, I had in my employ, Peter J. Trolio, '32. He resigned for other work. He is doing fine and is an up-and­coming architect. About one year ago I met Dan­iel C Brewer, '89. in Clarksdale, who was at that time a judge and he was very anxious for this section of the country to organize a Notre Dame Club, so he may take part. He surely has the Notre Dame spirit, even after so many years. 
"Lawrence H. Hetinessey, '27. is doing fine in the insurance business in Vicksburg. He has one boy and a girl. I see him often and be has not slowed down yet. I built him a nice home in a suburban addition that he promoted. My brother. Dr. Vito J. Canizaro, is leaving this month for Camp Bragg. He is a reserve officer and he has been drafted for a period of a year. He has two girls and one boy. He had a private practice in Vicksburg. Joe P. Palermo, *30, is working for the United States Engineers in Vicksburg. Joe still plays baseball, but it's the softball kind. He is married. 
"I am building a rather large apartment house and restaurant building for the brothers of Sam­
•el J- Nidiolas, '30, in Yazoo City. Sam is doing fine in his business. I met Bill Collins, '30, in Yazoo City a few days ago. He has a Buick agency there. I saw Sam Romano's sister and she told me that Sam was teaching at Tulane and he expects to go into practice soon. He has a baby girl. I met a young man of class '40 going to the Parks Air School, which is about six miles above here. His name is Vic Vercara. 
"Aastxn Hall, '26, came to my office about a month ago. He is associated with Estes Mann, architect, of Memphis. He was just recently mar­ried. I was at Notre Dame for the Notre Dame-Iowa game and only stayed long enough for the game and then returned to Chicago for several days. As you know, I am in the architectural business and have my office in the Capital Na­tional Building. At the present time, I am doing a quarter million dollar job in Natchez and I have ^ght other smaller jobs, which keeps me very busy. I am married and have one son. Robert Host, who is two years old." 
Your correspondent certainly had fine cooj:>era­tion from a great many cf the fellows to be able to send this considerable amount of material. May I take this opportunity to invite all of you (not too many at a time) to come to Washington and be sure to look me up in the New House Office Building. We have blossoms galore here from the first of April on. Then, too, we have a mighty fine alunmi club here and the "visiting firemen" would be most welcome. 
Umpire John M. "Botts" Crowley was a cam­pus viator on Dec. 13 while en route from the major league baseball meeting in Chicago. 
B. Floyd Searcr, recently named trust officer cf South Bend's Ilrst Bank & Trust company, is credited with development of a plan which makes it easier for taxpayers to remember when to buy tax stamps for their intangible securities. Die plan is explained in the current issue of the "Hoosier Banker." 
IQ9 Q J«Mvh p. K^amara, AtCamey Gen-I ' ^ ' en l Off c«^ IMia>apolb, Indiana. 
Hie baseball fortunes of the National League's Chicago Cubs were brightened considerably with the installation of James T. Gallagher as Cub general manager. Teh front office upheaval, which involves also a change of managership, may bring a pennant to the hapless Cubs of 1940. 
W^me county, Mich., probate judges unani­mously chose Judge Thomas C. Mnrphy as pre­siding judge for 1941 recently. Tom was first elected to office in 1934 and reelected in 1938. 
Walter A. Donnelly has opened a partnership in law firm practicing under the name of Don­zielly & Donnelly at lancoln Building, 60 East 42nd Street, New York Cit>. 
10 9 A Rickax4 L. Donocfaa*. SIO BiTenU* Dr^ ITa U New Toik CtUr. 
From Didc Donochne: 
The response to our &antic appeals for news has been very good and your secretary will lead right off with a great letter from Jack Cannon. Jack writes from the Division of Public Relations, City of Columbus, and here you have the news: 
"Satch, old boy. I was elated to hear from you again. I certainly had a good time visiting with you at the Beunion, and I got a great kick out of the bull sessions. It's a funny thing to say, Dick, but we are all getting old. losing our hair, but there's one thing that's true, we haven't lost the knack of throwing the bull. 
"You asked me to give you a little dox>e con­cerning the boys in our class, so I'll reminisce a bit, and see what I can put together for you. I was out to the West Coast with the Columbus Profes­sionals (football team) last fall. In Los Angeles, I ran across Larry Moore, who is now with the Fox Studios; and Jimmy Navarre, who is associ­ated with a private concern making commercial pictures. I also bumped into Dong Daley, and we had a grand time. I also saw Bishop O'Hara out there, and certainly was pleased to meet him. In Portland. I ran across Ptof. Cavanaugh. who taught Logic to us. He is now practicing law, and doing a grand job. 
"I was out to the Georgia Tech game, and I had a grand time talking to the fellows with whom we had so much fun In college. I ran my second All-Anerican Special to the Notre Dame* Iowa game, and attracted 250 fans from Columbus. "We had a marvelous trip. Ten of the people on the trip were staunch Ohio State followers. 
"They couldn't believe that Notre Dame alumni and supporters of the team could be such ardent rooters and sach good sports. I saw our grand preddent. Rev. J. Hugh 0*DonneI], as well as FaAer Cavanaogfa, our equally fine vice-president; I was terribly disappointed that Notre Dame lost to Iowa, but it looks like Eddie Anderson had the jump on the boys. I also ran across Frank Carideo and Jim Crowley, and had a pleasant talk with them. 
"Back here in old Columbus town, we have 60 members in the club, and some of the boys you'll remember are: Judge McBride, who was nominated for the Supreme Court, but lost out in the general election; BUI Bresnahan, whois prac­ticing law and is representing the power com­panies here; Joe I^an, who is planting all the 'stiffs, 'and doing a fine job of it; also, brother Dan, who is assodated with Fullerton & Co.. a brokerage firm. Tours truly is Director of Public Recreation, City of Columbus. Ohio. Bad Harphy is president of the club, and he is doing a great iob of it, too. 
"We are all going up to Doctor Donn's cabin this Saturday, and we will probably scare the cows and pigs for miles around. We are going to have pretzels, and some of that water with foam on it." (The secretary nmses that the director really gets around I) 
"Don Bfiller was down from Cleveland for the Democratic caucus, and we had a pretty good ses^on. Leo Bosionsky was over from Newark, and so was Art Shaw, Leo is assodated with the Ohio National Bank, and he certainly is a rabid Notre Dame fan. BUI Bresnahan lost his father last week, and the pallbearers were all Notre Dame boys. [Sec Note: TTie Class extends its sincere sympathies to Bill]. 
' "We put on a pretty good gathering for the local preview of the Ibrate Rockne picture, and following that, we all adjourned to the Variety CHub, and held forth until the wee small hours of the morning. We are going to have four boys from Columbus at Notre Dame next year. Nenuui Seidenstridcer is living in CJhillicothe. and is a big paper man there. He has two children. Joe Rigney is practicing law, and is dividing Iiis time between Ghillicothe and Columbus. Cee, Dick, there are so many names that I don't recall at the present time, but in the future, I'll write them down and work up a little letter to yon every month about what we are doing. 
"All the Columbus contingent are married except me, and I may take the big step around the first of the year. You know, we made a bet when we started in at N.D., of 25 bucks that would be paid to the last one getting married, and it looks like I am the winner. [Sec. note: Looks like the Director will start the new year right, and we hope his resolution loses none of its enthuaasm. No more half-holidays at "Doc" Dnnn's for you I] I'll be in New York sometime in January, and win give you a call, and in the meantime wish you a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, and to the class itself. 
[EU's. note: See "Marriages," this issue, for further Cannon news.] 
The old teammate did himself proud in this letter, and it warms the heart to receive his fine comments. Many thanks. Jack, and be sure to keep all those good resolutions to keep ns in­formed on the activitie3 in Columbus. Here's an other letter from one who is among the last to take the marital leap: Ed Blatt writes, as follows: 
"I'm another of the class to take the big leap 
— among the last. I should imagine. I thoa^t that I would send along the enclosed announce­ment, giving all the details. I meant to send the details long ago. but kept putting it off. Later I'll write a more newsy letter, and see if we can contact through the 'Alumnns' some of the boys not heard from in a long time." Ed married Miss Patricia Curtis Anderson in Cleveland on Sept. 14, and we extend our congratulations to them. 
Kari Brennan writes from New Britain, (Tann., giving us plenty of very interesting news about the class, and we quote, as follows: 
"Your recent letter put me on the well-known spot, inasmuch as it is some time since I have heard from any of the class of *30, with the ex­ception of Joe Collen of Mt. Morris, N. Y., and Dinny Shay of Hartford. Conn., and any news I have may be very limited. However. I enjoy read­ing the column of the class of '30 every mon&. In fact, I turn to that iK>rtion of the 'Alumnn^ before i>erusing any of the other interesting sec­tions, to see what is happening to the gang I traveled around with in school. Out of apprecia­tion for what others have done for my enjoyment, in the past, I will do the best I can to report the activities I know about. [Sec Note: The cohmm under my tutelage has been slim, but interest is growing and things look better. I am glad that Karl brought this point up, to enconrage others to send in some news. Take a gander at the tc^ of the page, and send us a line of news for the next "Alumnus." And so to continue]. 
"The only classmate I have run into lately is Dinny Shay, who I meet quite often at the (Con­necticut Valley Club meetings. Dinny is assistant to Adam Walsh at Bowdoin. and, incidentally, they have done an outstanding job there this falL They were topped in New England only by the excellent results of Frank Leahy at Boston Col­lege. Frank is also a member of our class, and Is doing us proud. Dinny has been made freshman basketball coach at Bowdoin, and next year, when basketball is made a major sport, he is to step in as head basketball coach, and to contintw as Adam's assistant in football. The class of *S0 win, I know, join me in wishing 'George D.* the best of success in his basketball venture at Bowddn. 
*1 have been expecting some of the fdhnrs iriio , were at the Betmicm in June to drop me a linc^ as they promiaed to do^ bat no doobt they are as 1ni«y as I have been. I am waiting for the first letter, deqrite this sdtoation. ¥ot thdr infcomation, W. T. (Srant (To. is still bearing with me, and I am covering the state of (Connecticut for them in the capadty of soperintendent. 1 ^ address is New Britain, Cbnn., but I am expecting a transfer after Christmas. (However, don't let that deter than, because they can always readi me throng my headquarters at 1441 Broadway, New York CTity). 
"I have lieard from Joe CallcB a couple of times. Joe is still numbered among the bacbdors of our class. We played gcdf together dnriniC my vacation, and had a swell time reminiscing: Joe did not return for our Reunion, so there were plenty of questions to be answered at the 19th hole. He is with the State EmQlayment Depart­ment, State of New York, and has quite a few western New York counties under his direct so­pervision, working out of Danville. N. Y., bat stin Uving in Mt. Morris, N. Y. We visited Hewie Bbleaey, '31, in his new home in Danville, on oar return from the golf course, and enjoyed a real bull session there. 
"Speaking of bachdor^ Denny Slisashia, for­merly of Waterbary, Omn., and more recently of New York (Sty, owes me a letter for over a year now; I have tried to contact him several times through his brother, Tim, who is vicenre^dent of the Federation Bank ft I^nst Co. in New Tori^ bat Denny still .maintains his silence. The last I heard from him, he was diief accountant for a large construction firm up the Hudscm. [Sec Note: Come out, come out, where ever yoa are, Shana­hanl]. 
"Paa SalfiTan, he of the flashing smile^ has been in Albany, Cia., very dose to a year now, and I have heard little fnsn him, except the an­nouncement that he and Sally are the proud par­ents of a littie ^rL I am still giving both SuIEvan and Urwin scmiething to shoot at, inasmuch as I have two fnllbadcs on my beds night and day here. Sally used to correspond with my vrife. Graee, but since each has children now, I guest they have other duties to keq> them oecopied. Dan is with the-Elcctrohu. people, as southern district manager. I believe, and is really ddng a job down there. 
"I called Jim Skaluu on my last visit to Boston, but was unable to get out to see him and Bath. jnim is in the insuranee business in Boston. DMI SaOiTaa, of Northanq^ton, Mass., promised to get in touch with me after the Reunion last June, but so far, I have not heard firom him. I expected to meet Don and Peg after the Army game in New Yoric this fsll, but no doobt missed them; they are nsoaHy there, hot I left after the game due to the preasure of business. Don has two fine boys. BB is in the contracting business with his father, in Northampton, Mass. GO Klrwia^ the Southern (Sentleman. formerly of Loaisville, Kr.. and now of Atlanta, Ga., is the proud &ther of a little girl. He also promised to drop me a Gne, but so far I have not heard ftmn him. ^ e evex^ faithful Tem Frwt of Iowa has also let me down. Tom and Marie used to write at least twiee a year, but no news dnee the Reunion. They pdd us a visit on thdr last trip East, when we were Uvias on Long Island. Tom, no doabt, is busy witii two littie IVosts, getting them rea ^ to ma­triculate at St. Mary's in a 'few* years. He is affiliated with the Sears Roebuck Co,, developing a new merchandising outlet for their farm eqn ^ meat, I owe SUp Kcmdiy a letter, having prom­ised to add to his stamp collection, but still not getting around to finding time. Skip oriajnates fn Livonia, N. Y.. but Is now located in Akron. OfaloL 
"There are plenty of fdlows around the Goii­neetieut Valley, and I have met a lot of thenv but I am stin looking for Tam Shay, and a few others. This dub Is very active and th ^ reecntly held the most successfnl Communion Breakfast that I have been privileged to attend. Father Qainlan, '16. has recently bnilt a new church in Wethersfield, Conn., and we received Holy Com­munion there. We had breakfast at Howard John­sons famous Inn. 
"From here on, Dick, you will have to carry on alone, because I have run out of news. The older of my two boys demands my time when I am at home, and so far today I have neglected him. I -would like to hear from the fellows in the old crowd of ours at school, and I will cert^nly do my best to answer, having made a new resolution to turn over a new leaf myself." 
Karl has given your correspondent new hope, by his very fine letter which speaks well for it­self, with regard to news and appeals for news. Many thanks! And right here we can bring more news direct &om the feed-box, from the indomit­able Dinny Shay, as follows: 
"To write about myself, should not take long. I am here for the year, and it sure gets cold; the thermometer was down below 25 below zero the other day, and I am practically an Eskimo by now. We sew into our woolen underwear in November, and take them off in April. I am coaching fresh­man baskeU>all this year. We have no varsity be­cause hockey is the winter sport here. fSec Note: The Glacier Coach, no doubt!] I like it here very much, but rardy see anyone up from school. There are not many N.D. men in M^ne. Adam Waldi is fine, and just now is in Boston at an alumni ^nner. He has been here six years, and his football team has either won or tied for the championship each year. This is an accompplish­ment; because they had not done that since '08. 
"I see Jade Saunders and Art McAIanmon occa­sionally in Boston, and Karl Brennan and others in Ifartford, also. I sat with Joe Thornton on the bench at the Boston College-Georgetown game. (I 
•was a little worried, because I thought Pele Coyle vras going to put us out). Frank Leahy has done an excellent job at B.C.: they certainly like him in Boston very mnch. Say Tiello' to all the boys, and rU see you when T come down for the coaches* meeting later on." 

Tour corresi>ondent thinks that the next letter comes from one who has not graced this page in a long time with news about himself. Tliere is no ttse in guessing, because it will be a difiticult one, so we quote a letter received from Dan Wcldions of Hutchinson, Kans.: 
"I "Was surprised to hear from you, and will attempt to fill in some missing links, as requested, because I appreoate the problems of a secretary. To go back into 'andent history,' I returned to Hutchinson after leaving South Bend, and X re­mained here until 1934. when my company trans­ferred me to Ottawa. Kansas. T was married shortly thereafter, and we were joined in 1937 by Daniel Seymour Welchons. Fred Zimmerman, of JUton, HI., my compatriot during our years at 
•die Bend. was. present at the wedding. He invited us down to Alton late in *38, and T lent my good Inflnence to the ceremony there, when he and Lucille were married. They came out to Ottawa as Danny's godparents. 
"I have just recently returned to Hutchinson, where I am now assoriated with Jane's father in the real estate and insurance bsiness. Now to put in a plug of my own: We organized a Kansas Ciub in '32 which hasn't functioned at all. due to the lax conduct of the secretary, namely myself. T am in a position now to offer to make amends, so if any of the Kansas boys get in touch with me and show an interest in getting started again, I promise to get the group rolling. [Sec. Note: His address Is 12 East Sherman St.. Hutchinson. Kans.] The season's best to you, Dick, and let me hear from yon agun.*' 
Next we hear from Borl Boykin, Jr., of the Standard Brass ft Mfg. Co., of Port Arthur, Texas. 
Burl lives at 2598 North St., Beaumont. Tex.* and he writes, as folk>ws: 
"It was a real pleasure, as well as a sorpriae to hear from you the other day. Time siuely does fly. It's been ten years since logarithms were thzowxt all over Prof. Bcnit^s classroom, and that little bucket in the comer was hit with a chaw of to­bacco. Well, I've had quite an experience nnee we saw each other last. After leaving N.D.* I went into the oil fields, stayed there a while witii the Sun Oil Co. They thought it best for me to go to the University of Oklahoma to finish vp Petroleum Engineering. X stayed there a year, until the depression came along, and then took a job selling brass and copjwr for the above concern. Hiis goes to show that one does not know what he will be doing next. I have been with this company for nine years, and am now branch manager of the Beaumont Division. 
"J^ve been married for four and one-half years, with two kids to show for it: a little gjrl of three and one-half years, and a boy just four months old. The latter. I hope, will be in the class of 1961 
"As for the alumni down here, I see Christy Flanagan, '27. all the time, and get in a few golf knocks with him here and in Port Arthur. I saw Hoon HoUins and Dinny Shay in New Or­leans after the Sugar Bowl game early in 1940. 'niiere are my old roommotes, Vince B«s d of Kenosha, and Leo Carney of Erie, Pa. 7 If yoa hear of them, tell them I would like to hear from them. 
"I hope to stop by Notre Dame around the 15th of January. I will be in Chicago to attend a eon* vention at that time, and will get down to school, if it is not too cold for my blood. It would be a great pleasure to hear from Father Steiner, who really gave me the works during my few years at Notre Dame. It did me a lot of good, and I ap­preciate it now. But boy, he sure used to give me the works! 
"I ran into Bill Miller in a number of plaees during the last few years. First, in St. Louis in 1934 at the St. Louis4)etroit World Series, then in at the Sugar Bowl game in New Orleans, and next at Mass in Jackson, Hiss. I lost one of my best friends here about six months ago, in Joe Hebcrt. '28, who died of pneumonia after it had settled in his kidneys. It was very sad. ma he leaves a grand 'wife and two fine boys. 
"How is all the Eastern gang? How's Joe Lord!, and where are George Vlk and Frank Kcraics? Is Tom Conningham in politics? Well Dick, this is all I can think up at the present, but if anjrthing new comes up, I will try to post you." 
And Burl adds this imstscript: "I wonder where 'Gaitor Bait! Joe Palermo and his old roomie, Harry Franos. are these days?" 
And next we hear from Denny Heenan, from Bellarmine College Preparatory, San Jose, Calif., as follows: 
"Your recent epistle was forwarded to me from my old home address in Salem, Oregon, and I will do what I can to add to the notes of the class of '30. After coaching for seven years at Cathedral High in St. Cloud, Hinn.. I was fortunate enoa$^ to get this job coaching football and basketball at Santa Clara Prep. I will try to give yon sooie dope on the N.D. men in Salem and vicinity, and also here in California. I worked with KKti Barr, '23, last summer in the plumbing business. Karl frequently gets to the meetings in Portland. Talked a few moments with Bob Barrett, '29, this summer in Albany. Ore. Bob is very busy eqnip­ing the farmers with new and used tractors, and other farm implements. 1 still get a word now and then from RoOie Shefter, who is managing the Portland team of the Pacific Coast Baseball League. 
"In the San Francisco Bay area, t sawHarly BrilTs Loyola football team play, and find that he has done a mii^ty fine job of teaching the Notre Dame system. Many good words are spoken hero and there regarding his coaching ability. I see Saw Itanne, athletic manager at Santa Clara, quite often, and have also seen most of Back Shaw'a Santa Clara games. Have been so dam busy with athletics here in my own schocrf that I have not seen Mardiy Schwartz at Stanford, but will contact him as soon as i>ossible. I am very sorry that I cannot report more on the members of the class itself, because I have not seen any of them since coming to California — which is, of course, as much my fault as theirs. 
"We had too much flu in my family to get to the tr.S.C.-NJ). game on Dec 7, but I enjoyed the game and the victory just the same. I do not know of much information about myself that could prove valuable, but I will say what I have been doing. 
"I attended the five-Year Reunion in '35, and had a good time. Have been married since 1932, and have two daughters, age six years and one year respectively. I am teaching Catholic Sociology here, as I did in St. Cloud. Catholic education is in­teresting to me, because I know the values that are coming to the boys, just as I have appreciated the religious life on the campus at Notre Dame as an influence in my own life. I have had fair success in coaching, and will probably continue with coaching, although the road to the top is a long and narrow one. Had a fine bunch of boys last season, and finished in Prep competition without a defeat or a tie. Don't get many teams like that! 
"If you ever see Frank Sowa, '30, in New York Qty (he has a Chem. Lab. there), give him my best regards; Ed Harra is coaching in the Catholic High School League, and also teaching at St. Elizabeth's High School of Oakland, Calif. His team won the '39 title in basketball, ^ d an op­portunity to speak on the radio on Universal Notre Dame Night, and enjoyed it very much. I am sorry that I cannot add more than I have, and I appreciate your invitation to write a few notes for the class column." 
Gratias, Denny, and make a few notes from time to time for a future column; it is generous of you to reply to my request. 
Pat Goffgins writes from 2402 Nob Hill Ave.. Seattle, Wash., in very eloquent and detailed manner, on his favorite hotel stationery, telling us about himself and recent changes in his modus operandi. Pat is employed in the Boeing Air­craft Co. in the test insiiection department, where he helps guide the destiny of the Flying Fortress (Bodng B-17). So we will give you the salient excerpts from Pat's very interesting letter, as follows: 
"Hie Goggin in question has severed all con­nections with the retail lumber business, serving the many formers around Arocla, HI. During the summer months, the business was sold, and one Patrick Goggin was in a jwsition to return to his diosen field. My father suffered a paralytic stroke^ following a disastrous fire over four years ago, and for this reason, I awoke one morning to find msrself definitely in the lumber business — whicli consisted mainly of. a pile of ashes, a littie cour­age, and the ambition to provide the necessary three meals a day. .. . I have been out here in the pEtcific Northwest since late September. We have rain rather than snow on this side of the mountains during the winter months, and I pre­sume that by next spring, that I will have webb feet like the rest of the natives. .. . I live in a Chieen Anne residential section, which is very nice. I still dine alone these evenings, hut' perhaps this situation will be dianged before too many years have passed. I shall have to hold out a while longer, however, even though I do not cher­irii the idea of growing 'old alone' nor holding my Senior Pin and watch the "pearls' fall out one by one. 
"While in Tacoma a week aso Sunday, I saw the remains of the famous Narrows Bridge. The scenes of the actual swaying and collapse of the bridge are scarcely believable. Received a letter from Ron SnlUran, *30, of Portland, Ore. Ron rose to the ranks of benedict many years ago, and both he and Haurine have a lovely child to attest to this fact. With all good wishes and my personal regards to you and the class. . . .*' 
And so, with my eyes about to become crossed, and my fingers feeling more like stubs, I close the column, wishing that many more will write us a few lines for the next "Alumnus." Bill Dooley has sent me a list of names and addresses of the class of '30. I will be glad to bring the list up to date, if the members of the class will write in to notify me of any new addresses. I will also mail a postal to anyone inquiring for the address of a particular classmate. Everyone seems to plead that 
, he is too busy to write, or to reply to letters, but maybe if we become news-conscious from day to day, the writing will be easier. Let no one think that his letter will not be welcomed, nor that this sounding board of class news is restricted; with lots of letters to work with, your secretary is like the Irishman employed in carrying brick. He said "And sure, my job is an easy one. it isl All I have to do is to carry the bricks up four flights of stiurs, and another fellow cements them in place." And so, we'll see you in the March issue! 
Walter Langford, associate professor of mod­em language at the University, recently dis­cussed "Latin American Relations" before the Lions* Club of South Bend. 
George B. Pope was recently chosen president of the Avoyelles Parish school board of Btmkie, La. 
IQ9 1 J^" Bergan» 838 E. Colfaic Artmmt, 
• ' ^ • South Bend, Indiana. 
From John Bcrgan: 
Just four months left until our tenth reunion! Arrangements are under way by the South Bend and vicinity members of the class to hold one of the best reunions at the University. Plans are being made to enlist chairmen in every part of the country to arrange for a fine representation of all members of the class. Tou will see many geographical changes on the campus, a new en­trance, many new buildings and many of the old familiar ones razed to make a more beautiful landscape. Death has taken many of your former rectors and professors but there are still many of them here to recall old times. Yon will also see the majority of the old gang, for already reserva­tions are being made by members from Massachu­setts to Los Angeles and Calgary to Tampa. Let^s talk up the reunion and make May 30, 31, and June 1 the happiest days that we have ever spent. 
We wish to congratulate Frank Leahy, coach of Boston College, who climaxed an undefeated sea­son by annexing the Sugar Bowl championship and Bffardiie Sdiwartz, assistant coach of Stan­ford University, the 1941 Rose Bowl champion. Then, too, there was Larry MaDins whose 1940 St. Ambrose College team was the only unscored on team in the country. A swell record for three members of one class. Efforts are being made to have these men, as well as the other members of the 1930 national championship team, as guests of the 10-year reunion. 
Frank CkamWrs !s now working in the Gen­eral Motors Diesel plant at LaGrange. HI. The Torn BIbnihans are enrolling Patrick Hugh as a member of the class of 1962. It's a daughter in the home of the Ritchie Barbers. Roy BiUlie, who has been very ill most of the fall, is recovering and will soon be back at his old post with Fire­stone in Fall River. Mass. Nordy Hoffman is in the trucking business in Pittsburgh, Fa. Tom Can-nm assumed his i>ost as prosecuting attorney at Muncie, Ind., on Jan. 1. Dr. Thad GwaaewsU is the new coroner of St. Joesph county, Ind., and Judge Frank KopinsU still does a lot of marrying as Portage townsliip justice of j>eace in Sooth Bend. Bob Baer has assumed his new duties with a machine company in New York, having been recently transferred from Chicago. Bill Cluwsa is rounding out his eighth year with the Depart­ment of Internal Revenue at Chicago and still believes that Aurora is one of the nation's finest suburbs. 
The Jack Cannons are now residing in.Cblnm­bns* east side having been married at St. Fatri^ s church there on Dec. 28. Mrs. Cannon was the former Juanita Brumbaugh. Many of the class were present to speed them to a Miami hon^moon. Congratulations! Mike Kinney was named the diief clerk of the Illinois Secretary of State. Edward 
J. Hughes, and has already assumed his new ofHce in Springfield. Mike has also made his reservation for the reunion and promises to bring a group with him from southern Illinois. 
Paul Duncan, still single and expecting a call for a year's military service, is in the costs de­partment of the LaSalle. III., plant of the Mar­auette Cement Company. Paal Kemper is married and practicing law in Bellevue, Iowa. He enj(Qred a fling into politics last fall but lost a close race for the prosecutorship of his county. Marcdino Garza is a research chemist for an oU company in Saltillo Coab. Mexico. Bill Ginder is also a re­search en^neer for one of the Pittsburgh steel companies. George O'Connor is teaching art in the Bayonne. N. J., high school but no news as to his family. 
On Jan. 20 Eddie Ryan, Jim Doyle, Bas Ridi and Vince Ponic visited South Bend on one of their goodwill tours so that Jerry Crawley, Ed Murray, Professor Jim Kearney, Dan Clark. Fran Kopinsld, Rollie Ponlin and the sec arranged a quick entertainment for them and many sugges­tions relevant to the reunion were discussed over the boards of the Oliver Hotel. The Chicago con­tingent looked prosperous and are enthusiastic over the prospects of having a reunion of 400 '31ers. Through the courtesy of our good friend. Bob Cahin, we were privileged to view pictures of the 1940 team in action against Northwestern. 
Perhaps this item is no longer news but it is Professor Larry Mnllins now. He was recently rigned as professor of physical education and backfield coach of the University of Florida foot­ball team and soon will move his family to Jadc­scnville from Davenport. Iowa, llioogfa we dislike to see "Moon" leave the Middle West, we fed certain the boys of Florida U. will certainly gain a lot of his football knowledge. Rumor has it out of Brooklyn that there will be a Mrs. Jolm Bams by the time June rolls around. How about this, Johnny ? 
Brother NUus, CS.C. superintendent of the St. Joseph farms, property of the University, re­cently was appointed a member of the coonty plan commission by the county board of eom­misrioners. 
Rev. Francis W. SnlliTan. CS.C^ pastor of St. Augustine's Roman Catholic chnrdi in South Bend, broke ground on Nov.. 27 at the site of the new church which will be erected in time for the Negro Catholics to praise God by Easter. 
 T. Icee, 32S SMth JtCtma 

1932 James 
Chicaco, niinds. 

From Jim Icoe: Clay Adams, according to the last reports, is connected with the Twentieth Century-Fox film studios. Bad Mortensen, the Old Shotputter. is president of the United Embossing and Engravins Company of Chicago; specializing in printed mat­ter of all kinds, (advt.) 
It is reported, bat not verified tliat FUI ]!•• • luwy and C. D. JMMS are in tlie amy. Und* Sam i< sains to be hdped by Jia Dawns in the very near future also. 
Ftsd BtcUenbciK is vaeationins in Florida wUh Ids -wife and baliT. Fiaak Brirtswfc is seoetair of the United Wine and Liimar Co. Ed Brits is with the HOLC. 
Lea Ceadsa is the Hasne of Boelcford aeeordins to political obaervers. Lea Dana, the West Frank­fort, HI., bor, has a thrivins law business in Iiis home town. Len is still a bachelor. 
Jisi Chsisa", of Xenonnnee, when last heard from was a power in Hiehisan politics. Bab HOcer is nmnins a department store in Oolmnbns, Ind. He is married and has four children, whidi has made him an authority on infants wear. 
Ned Kdky of WUmette, lU., U with the GoeUU Candy Company. H^ still manages to break. 80 constantly on the golf coarse. Bab Lea and Frank HcGce and Eddie O'Blalley are aU attorneys. Bob is with the Standard Oil Company: Frank with the Chicago Title and Trost; and Eddie with the Charles H. Albeis Company. 
Nappy Napalitaaa is an instructor in physical education at Notre Dame. Taai Ollalky is in the sales department of the Signode Steel Strappins Company. Dea Farfian just got married. 
This Month's Baby Report: Ben Salraty just had a little boy. Jim Icee had a little girl, and Jaka Heibstiltt is expecting. 
'Die address is still the same and I am still able to open envelopes, so drop me a line. Even if yon can not supply me a lot of information, supply a little. 
Dr. Frank Marray. '36, writes regarding Walt SalBvan. graduate of Notre Dame with a B.S. degree. After graduation Walt was employed by the Ldisb Valley Railroad and worked oat of the division engineer's office covering the terri­tory near his Auburn, N. T., home. Frank and Walt loomed together at Cornell ITniverrity Hed­ieal college vriiere Walt captured a fourth year sdolaiship (the only one given to a fourth year student). Early in tlus same year he was elected 
, to Alpha Omega Alpha, a national medical col­lege honor society. At graduation last June Walt captured three prizes — the first for general effideney, the second was first prize for distinc­tion in gynecology, and the third for profideney in otolaryngcdogy. Walt is interning at Albany Hospital for the next two years. 
Kabert E. Barghart moved from Seattle, Wash., to work on the new munitions plant near La-Forte. Ind., with Bates * Bogers Constmctim Corporation. The new plant is to play an im­portant role in the nation's national defense program. 
KeO C. Hailey. vice-president of the Fbenmatie Tool company, presented an exceptionally fine paper on the subject of "Industrial Marketing under the Defense Program" at the annual raeet­is s of the American Marketing assodation on Dee. 27 at the Stevens Hotel in Chicago. 
109 « Btend Hariatty, U27 
My99 Ana Alter. lOddgaa. 
Fhim Eddie Hariarty: 
Ole Man Moe ain't daid after all. Yes, brethren, our '33 column in recent issues has indeed been laddns, but from recent letters recdved con­taining letjtimate "beefs" for the omissions, tiiere dioold be no blanks for '41. Some of the gieaa-Inss in this contribution are a bit stale, hot' it takes only a letter to bring them up to date, and here's hopins yoall all pen at least one note dur­ing the year, ^lat should insure plenty of news for eadi issue. 
We v;eTe all terribly shocked to learn of the untimdy death of Rocer AIcGorem. "McCutch/' as he was familiarly known to many of us, had everythiniT — rare sense of humor, masmetlc i>er­sonality, keen intellect — and was undoubtedly destined for great things. His passing is a distinct loss to all of us and we should not forget him in our prayers. 
Dick Heade came through with one of the finest contributions yet received, but just too late for the December issue. For the sake of breWty we can only quote the meat of it. and here 'tis: 
*'The Kovember 'Alumnus' arrived yesterday and of course the iirst thing I turned to was the section on class news. The ominous blank under '33 was a real disappointment and right away I figured that lazy Horiarfy has been sleeping on the job again. Further and more charitable consid­eration, however, suggested that you just aren't getting any help from the boys. Of course I always kick when -we don't have anything in the 'Alum­nus.* In the interest of consistency, X made a firm resolution yesterday to write you immediately, and here I am — for the first time in how many years? 
"As indicated by the date line. I am living in San Francisco. My wife and I came down here from Seattle (the heart of the Evergreen Play­ground) in the fall of 1939. You reported our marriage in a previous issue, so before he enrolls as a freshman and announces himself, I want to report that we have a young son, lUchard Francis 
— bom last July. He looks like a very fine boy, Eddie, and I have great hopes for him along about 1960. I just hope he doesn't have to put up with a Moriarty in his class, like his old man did, 
"I am worldng for J. AValter Thompson — an advertising agency — and like my •n.-ork and S.F. very much. You seemed to be considerably sur­prised to hear that I was married. "Well, if it surprised you — listen to this one (I hope no one has beat me to it): I^co Cnmmings was married this summer in Seattle. If that doesn't shock a lot of fellows, they've forgotten Leo — which isn't likely. I understand the report Bill Lynch uncon­scious for several hours but that he recovered in time to dispatch a telegram to Leo. congratulat­ing him and reminding him of a bet they made bade around 1932 concerning their respective abil­ities to refrain from matrimony. 
"I wonder what effect the news h^d on Maun* L«e, Chet Hoyt, Don Wise, Eddie Eckcrt. Norb Schwartz and some of the others. Had a letter from Johnnie English the other day, still unmar­ried and still engaged as a partner in a fine shoe store (plug). He has a new hobby — sailing. In fact he bought a boat recently, so I guess the shoe business will be sadly neglected. I'll bet this new hobby will fade, however, as soon as the snow starts to pile up on the slopes of Ranier. Johnnie is a skier from way back. In fact he has scars to prove it. 

**Norb Schwartz has always been a dependable source of news and a cloaring house for East-West information. Why don't you drop him a line and ask for news of Bill Lynch, Jim McLaughlin. Chet Hoyt. Ed Eckert and Schwartz himself. Bud Morphy is living in Ohio and he ought to be able to tell you something about the boys in that sec­tion. And how about Austin SnlliT^n. up in Mas­sachusetts? He has maintained an impressive si­lence for seven years. A lot of fellows would like to hear how and what he's doing." 
On the heels of Dick's fine letter, came one from the Atlantic side — from Chet Hoyt — and containing just the info that Dick desired on some of the boys. Here is Chefs letter: 
"This will probably reach you in the dead of winter — snow bound out Ann Arbor way. I just finished dinner, and. after thumbing through the latest edition of the 'Alumnus,' thought it was high time that I broke loose with a bit of news from back New York way. Although the local alumni group is very active, X often wonder aboat some of the lads who went forth Into the world to become a breadwinner in June* 1933 — Jane S, to be exact — with a word of warning from Father CoQcUin — a few stirring words from Paul HcNatt — and a touch of John McCermad. 
"Seven years, six months later, your long lost correspondent is pleased to report as follows: My former roommates — both quite successfoL Geers* Rohn fast becoming a name in Wall Street oreles in the investment and market research field. ISs recent survey of the 'Frozen Food Industry* reached all the financial columns of the eastern newspapers — several trade magazines, plus a request for several thousand copies of the report from men high in industry. Ed E^ert, the other success story — busy in the plumbing contractinsr business in Albany, and can be seen at any hour of the day or night in the shadows of the Capitol 
— displaying his can of 'Draino' and stoppinfiT strangers to tell them about recent hdr, Ned, Jr. 
"We used to hear from Norh Sdiwartz occadon­ally, but I suppose he has his hands full — with the defense program the tool business must be booming. Fen us a line. Norb. Yonkers Bill Lsmcii hasn't been seen or heard of in some time. 'He even failed to show up at home plate in Yankee Stadium after the Army game for the annual chat. Jim McLaaghlin is quite the trial lawyer, for one of the transit companies in the city. 'Vic SAmtM' ner stops in at club meetings once in a while, and Art Lavery is always on hand with his cigar. Maurie 'Doc* MalviUe is at French hospital in New York and yours truly often wonders about Tarn O'Meara, Barrister Pete Connelly of Rochester, Leo Cnmmings, Neil Ebert, Johnnie Baldwin, Cy Entrup, Dick Meade and Jack Jaeger. Anyone knowing their whereabouts should give them a pen and urso them to write — even it it's about themselves." 
One little correction on your swell letter, Chet. Vic Schaeffner is now very much one of us in Detroit and was recently elected secretary of the Detroit Club for the coming year. His "bushy" hair often gets in his eyes when scanning files on some of the probation cases that come under his wing as assistant Federal Probation officer for the Detroit district, but he is consoled on not­ing that Ted Feldman and Jack Breen have the same trouble. Yes. the Vitalis people are doing a great business at the comer drug store. Ted had quite a siege as the result of an operation but is in fine fettle once more and plans to build a new house very soon. Jack has been very much on the move with a boom year in prospect for the '41 Nash. Ernie Gargaro is still In town — for good. we hope —• and doing handsomely. He has become quite a pipe fancier, but if you can get him to confess, he'll admit that the purchase of a new briar is not always soft talk and sweet music. He plans a little Florida vacation next month and will probably run into Bob Powell down there­Bob's wife and baby are already there and he plans to join them shortly. That's what comes of being of the landed gentrj-. 
A very late acknowledgment of a very fine letter from Tom Downs, the eminent Khinelander, Wis., barrister who is cutting quite a figure for himself in those parts, what with serving as secre­tory for the Oneida County Bar Association, aa well as on the Democratic committee for that sec­tor, and caring for a sizeable law practice. At that writing. Tom had bestowed a sparkler on a school teacher from Eau Claire and the chime of bells could almost be heard. He passed on the word that Fran Werner is practicing law in New London. Wis.: that Ray Realand is a district supervisor for Standard Oil, married, and lives at Saulte Ste, Marie. Mich.; that Don Sdinable, located at Mer­rill. Wis., is the district attorney there. Tt>m would like to hear from Bill Ackcrman of Wheel­ing. W. Va.. Len Regan. Don Draper and Tmy Wirry 
We last saw Norm (Old Faithful) Dake between halves of the Georsia Tech game and never did bear if he was elected prosecutor for I.aForte County, and we sincerely hope it was "bagged." Saw Pete Hen at that time too, and he is cover-ins; the Middle West for the Winston Publishing Co. of Chicago. It was a great pleasure to see Ed Asnew and his wife after ihe game bat we were grieved to hear that he had lost both his parents since we last saw him. Saw Johnnie lomdi's mother and sister and they said John and his wife had planned on the game but that the '41 Bnicks were going just too well to permit a holiday. The Lynchs are also displaying a 1940 Sai»er model — bom last summer — and is their first. 
One of the really pleasant surprises during the past year was a lunch and visit with Walsh Hall's erstin^Ie "Voice of the Birdie," our very good friend. Bill Hawkes. We haven't seen Bill since June of *33 and remained entirely uninformed of the doings and whereabouts of this wild engineer with the sharp sense of humor — and this is not intended to imply a shortage of that gift in other engineers. Bill's case history during these seven years runs like a story book, and if we had a "glammer" sketch in each issue, he should rate the laurel easily this time. 
After getting his degree in electrical engineer­ing he went to M.I.T- for a Master's in Aero­nautical, nien came enlistment in the Na\7 Air Corps and an intense 18 months at Pensacola. After earning his wings he was assigned to a carrier which embarked him on a cruise over many waters and provided thrills and experiences too numerous to mention, including the search for Amelia Earhart in the shark-infested waters of the Pacific In four years spent on and off the carrier. Bill, because of his excellent training, tested ships, dive bombers, was an engineering consultant — all as part of a day's work. When he decided to terminate his active service, offers from seven different airlines awaited him. He accepted a post with American, flying a New York-Chicago run, and that's what brought him into Detroit. The rather commonplace duties apparently were not enough, however, as it was his wont to take a '•postman's holiday" on his off days — flying or instructing for the Navy, or doing a little extra study himself, just to keep abreast of his ever­growing profession. He also ferried a French bomber, loaded with explosives, to Nova Scotia, just before France surrendered. 
After sudi a stretch of thrills we thought Bill would be content to let the Flagship automatic sixer his course, but the next thing we heard he had signed a contract with the Netherlands-East Indies government, to help build an air force out of what was left of the Dutch Navy in the East Indies. Old Mr. Whiskers stepped in on this though, and wouldn't i)ermtt such a valuable man to leave the country at this time. He is now in Washington, as assistant head of the Bureau of Aeronautics and we're bound to be hearing more about him soon. Bill married his grammar school sweetheart, and, it is rumored, their year-old baby will soon have enough flying for a pilot's license. Bill was in Honolulu during our Elve-Year Re­union but insists he won't miss the Ten-Year gathering. 
Through the grapevine came a rumor thai an ex-citizen of North Attleboro, Mass.. was maldng inquiries as to the availability of the Log Chapel. As this rumor reached us last fall we wonder \i^ether there was anything to it. Maybe Joe McCahe would know. . . . George Beandin is plan­ning on moving his family to Minneapolis in the spring — closer to his territory for the Kroydon Co. . . . Jack Finneran was in Detroit long enough to call up Ted Faldman and report two additions to his family. . . . Jerry Finneran should he in town soon again, too — if he's still handling that seed account for Hearst Newspapers. . . . Jalia Harfst was a most recent visitor. He is a special asent for a New York Accident Insurance Co. and has the entire country for a territory. , . . And that's all for now, . , , See you next issue and many thanks for all past and future corre­spondence. 
"The Kid in the iron lung," Fred Snite. Jr., was the recipient of a visit from Britain's former king, Edward, now Duke of Windsor, at Snite's Miami Beach, Fla., residence during the ex-ldng's American visit. 
The following notes are from Russell J. O'Shea of 2027 Washington Avenue, Cairo. III. 
'Thilip A. Darmody, E.E. *33, is with the Illi­nois Central in the head office in Chicago, as a draftsman in the traffic and signal department. Phil visited his parents here In Cairo during the Christmas season. 
"Phi! spoke of hearing Bill Nitsdi. E.E. '33. who is employed by the Wheeling Steel Company, Wheling, W, Va. Bill was lately promoted to the position of designing engineer -with his com­pany, which makes dies and steel equipment. 
"Phil also reports that Henry Cluver^ E.K '33, recently resigned from his former work and started selling for the United States Rubber Company in New York City. Hank is a member of the sales force in the wire department. 
"James B, Walder, B.C.S. '32, a second lieu­tenant in the Reserve Officers Training Corps, runs his men's furnishings store here. Georse Schaefer has his own drug store here, and from him comes the report that he has been doing well with it for these last three years now. He opened a new store in January, 1938. 
"Charies Conley is presently connected with the All-State Insurance Company of Chicago. William Pinnell (Bill) Hunter lives a short distance from here, but I never see or hear anything from him. That goes also for T. C. Pinkley, who lives at Portageville, Mo. Hunter lives in New Ma­drid, Mo. 
"William P. Saffa, A.B. in Phy. Ed. '36. of Drumright, Okla., is now located at Mounds, 111., (nine miles north of here), where he runs the Mecca Tavern. Bill -is doing well ^\-ith his busi­ness. 
"I had a card at Christmas time from my great old pal and friend, John J. Ross, A.B. '32. from Brooklyn, where Johnny is an 'attorney at law' (his letterhead says so!). He is still promising that 'long letter' sometime when he has time to write it! 
"As for myself, I have just completed my best year since my graduation from Notre Dame. My life insurance business, the only thing I've fol­lowed since leaving school, was the best in my experience. If all goes well with my health fac­tor, I should again be on the great old Notre Dame campus on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, May 30, 31 and June 1, for graduation week-end." 
|Q3 d ^ Robert CahUl, AtUetlc Auodation, ' ' ^ ^ Notre Dame. Indiana. 
From Bob Cahill: Happy new year, men of '34! Why not make a resolution to write your secretary once a month? All right, then, don't. Have run across a few of the boys since you heard from this column last. John Dorian (for­merly John Dobinski) dropped in one day before the holidays. He's with Signode Steel Strapping Co., 2600 N. Western Avenue. Chicago, and look­ing great. Made the trip to Los Angeles for the Southern Cal game. Out there I saw Dick Hnllen, and met his wife. Dick has three children, and is con­troller of the Padre Vineyards Co. We spent an evening together and had a great time reminiscing. Saturday morning in the Biltmore I ran into 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Bob Coigan and his wife. Bob is now located on the Coast, and likes it very much. On the way out, when the team stopped at Tucson for a workout, I went out to see Joe Degnmxu Had a grand visit with him, and am glad to say he's improved since arriving in Arizona, and he asked me to thank the many of you who have written 
- him. 
For the benefit of those who did not notice it before, his address is Elks State Hospital, Tbcson, Ariz. I might add that Joe does not know many people in that section as yet, so your letters are certainly welcome. He told me he hears from Harry Burdiell in New York occasionally. I wouldn't mind hearing from Harry myself. 
I saw many N.D. boys at the smoker at the Biltmore in Los Angeles, but am sorry to say that the '34 boys are not well represented out there. Oh yes, I did see Max Dcnoff, the old vio­linist and Spanish shark, formerly of South Bend, who is with Warner Brothers. He asked for Stanley Rensberger, now in Brazil. 
On Dec. 23. came across Charley Jahr, who was stopping over night in South Bend enroute to Wisconsin and had a long chat with him. Charley is still in his chosen iield, probation and recreational work, and is married. He looks the same as ever. 
A note from Bill Do^-le last November told me 
he was selling hardwood lumber for J. P. Scran­
ton & Co. in Detroit. His address Is 16578 (Cherry­
lawn, Detroit. 
An announcement from Mr. and Mrs. Bill 0*Brien, 639 Wayne St., Bridgeport. Conn., carries the news that Patricia Ann arrived on Nov. 17, for which congratulations, 
Dick Kelley writes from Baton Rouge, La., 618 Main St., to say that he is now located there with Acosta Furniture Co., and married Miss Jane Duplantier of that city on Oct. 1. In addition to that responsibility. Dick has been made boxing coach of the Catholic High School there — but there is no" connection between the two events. I am sure! 
And I quote herewith a welcome letter from Frank X. Connelly, new president of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester. N. Y.: "I am the fellow who caught the first train after the last exam in Jan., 1932, My talents were not strictly for Engi­neering as directed by Mr. Maonis and others. Probably you can recall me better if I ask you to dig into the archives and see who was vice-presi­dent of our class in the freshman year. Now that I am heading our local group and doubling for our secretary T thought that I would fulfill a long cherished ambition after my letters to the manag­ing editor and drop you a line advising you of the comings and goings of those members of our class who still reside In the flower city. So here goes. Larry Carpenter is bigger than ever, weigh­ing in at 216 stripped and tries vainly to reduce his waist by playing handball with Johnny Dor* scfael, *31, who by the way is getting married on Thanksgiving Day in this stite, Nov. 21. Mildred Clements is the bride-to-be. 
"Jerry Farrell works by nights and sleeps by day in the insurance business. It is not safe to go to bed before midnight when Jerry is covering his route. We have elected him treasurer of our alumni club because no one could ever copy his signature. He has sold us all so much insurance on anything from asthma through cyclones and tornadoes to war risks and zero weather that we are proclaiming January as 'Work-This-One-For-Farrell Month,' in order that we can meet all our premiums. Jerry, by the way. leaves us in January to train with our national guard unit, the 209th Field Artillery, for a year. 
"Dick Tobin looks like a living advertisement for the vitamins he analyzes for Beechnut. He is living in Canajoharic and is the father of a fine baby boy. I stop off once in a while to see him. I usually meet him dov.-n at the tent works where he has his shirts made and laundered. Dick always has some new idea working. T^xe last time I saw him he was trying to figure out how he could make steering wheels out of peanut ^dls . Smne time be may strike aomething easy like making ice out of cold water. 
"I graduated from Union (College in '35 as a dvil engineer, worked for Eastman Kodak for three years as a structural designer and am now district manager for the Coltum-Fetch Co., aeons­tical engineers and contractors for the Olotex Ckirp. We also run a big plastering contracting business under the name . of Henderson-Johnson from Ohio to Maine. Bemie Henneieey works for the Celotex Cwp. and also sells Paragon Plaster, or is it Samson, Bemie? Do yon ever hear from Joe StuiCMk or D«ke MilheiMi., those old Brown-son Hall boys? [Answer — no]. Staneook Is a product of my only disloyalty to NJ). I hashed for him and helped him on his math when he was getting ready for Army." 
Thanks, much, Frank. That was a swell letter. 
Yon know, m&a, this job can become very dull, 
' and is no doubt reflected in the writing of this column, bat it's hard to write when no one sends me any news. Why not try a letter like Connel­ly's? It only takes five minntes. 
And now for the Marvelous Man of *34 — well, there ain't none. You're all bums for not writing. Nyaaaaaah! 
Cyril L. Foote, relay engineer of the Indiana district of the Indiana & Michigan Electric Company for three years, has joined the staff of the "parent" organization. American Gas Jk Electric Service Company, of New York City. 
1935 FranUni C. Heduvitcr, U9 ATC^ St. LoaSs. Bfisaovrt 
From Hodi: 
Well, gang, the holidays are over and we are well on our way into 1941. If the first piece of reporting for the current year is to be the index of what we may expect for the next eleven months perhaps we had better suspend operations. One letter came our way and that early in December from L«ke Kelly. We wonder how you would like our inviting volunteers to carry on this column for the rest of this journalistic year — that is until June. Maybe yoa would prefer writing to , someone else. Perhaps It would be well to ask someone who never drops us a note to take It over for an issue. We could assign the task to Am­heiter. Brcen, Ciuliinr. Dabs, EnsUah. Foley, Gafney, HoWrt, Kellogg, Lux. Masterson, Novak, O'Neil, Pickard. Qairk, Rainey, Shay, Tomhragel, Underkofler, Vitter, Weidner. Yates, and Zimmera. You have there one from each letter of the alpha­bet who have either never written or have not In several years. Now what about it ? We await your respond! 
For the (Christmas cards Mrs. Scribe and your correspondent wish to thank Steve and Dorothy Banas; Hike and Agnes Weidl: Faal GQamieri; AI RaTarine: Frank Itzin; Mart Hendele; Vinee Gorman; Mitdi Sakh: Charlie Maher: Heniy Bcdcer and wife; Cliff Dadley; Art and Virginia Conrad: Jade and Eleanor Clark; Al Phaneaf; Bob and Marie HcUrang; Phil Jacobs; Jade and Margaret McCarthy; and Tom and Andre Procter. 
There were notes on Charlie Maker's card, C^harlie has been assigned to Kansas (}Ity. ^ns, , since last summer. There he is with the local United States Engineer's Office on flood control work. His address is 1018 Quindaro Blvd. (Drop In to see us, Charlie, if you are ever In the neighborhood.) 
And to Henry Bedur and his wife we want to extend our very best of everything on the swell family: Harry, Billy, Joe and Paul. 
Just before the first of the year came an an­nouncement of marriage from down Puerto lUco way. Have you guessed it? Thafs right! It was Bob Forbes. Bob married Senorita Candida Ber­rios on tbe 26th of December in San Juan. To you and the bride. Bob, we send our very best per­sonal greetings and the best from all the class for a happy and hearty married life. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis had a bit of a Christmas party on the 27th of December in the University Club here. It was a small, cozy affair restricted to club members and present students home for the holidays. We were among the guests at the table of Bob and Mrs. Hellrang, 
•20. Among the others at the table were: Mr. and Mrs. Bill Cronk. ex. 23': Dr. and Mrs. Steve Riditarsic. '25; Al Phaneaf, '34, with Rosemary Karr; Mr. and Mrs. Wade Kellcher, '35: and Mr. and Mrs. Bob Leahy. '28. 
Al Ravarino, as secretary of that local club, was much about in his own inimitable way seeing that everj-thing and everyone was going in ship-shape. 
With Wmde Kellcher, down for the holidays with his -wife we were able to catch up on five and a half year' news. Wade is married two years and is carrying on in the transportation business with his Dad in Chi, though the family originally comes from these parts, as did Mrs. W.K. 
We thought that we would find a lot more of the local '35ers at the party, certainly Jim Hill and Gnnncr McGrath, even though it meant trav­eling a few miles to make it. All of which brings up several xnsits from our ''out state" friends. 
It was not long after we arrived on the Mis-
ambassador. Gunner said that Bob Byrnes from 
Jim Hill one Saturday night. The Hochs spent 
a very pleasant evening with Jim seeing a few of 
the local sjKits after dark. Several months then 
went by until Jim came along again. But last 
Sunday he dropped in and had dinner with us fit 
was just a quick snack, as Jim will bear out.) 
We might reiterate for you that Jim, who hails 
from Jefferson City, is state supervisor for 24 counties in the southeastern section for the N.Y.A., in the student division. 
Then Gunner. One afternoon late in November 
•we were at home preparing a class when the bell rang and there stood the 'Twy from Sedalia." The same who "made" "Life" when Sedalia got the big blow a couple months ago. 
Gunner was returning from the Iowa game with his folks and just dropped in for a quick "hello." John reported seeing a few familiar faces at the Quarterback Ziuncheon at the Morrison Hotel in Chicago the day before. "The Kid" made head table. 
But here is some marital news from our ro\*ing ambassador. Gunner said that Bob Byrnes from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was at the game with his three-day old bride. Imagine Bobby married! But here is to you. Bob! 
Now to that letter from Luke Kelly. We don't know what you got out of our remark on Beanie Cavender, Luke, but, from what you implied, you are wrong — that U. of C. course has no use to date. 
Luke continues to sell for Remington Rand in Albany, N. Y. At the local N.D. club, Luke saw a few of our boys as plans were being made for the annual Christmas dance at the Van Curler in Schenectady. 
Of those seen by Kelly were: Larry Clark, who is a post office clerk; Bill Cassazza, who is in the trucking business with his father, and who was to be married to Hiss Brenda Papen just before Christmas: and Didc Leahy who is with the New York State Unemployment Insurance Department. 
Tou will note we have mentioned Larry Clark. It was not so long ago that the Alumni Office and your Scribe were asking questions about Larry as a rumor had gone out that he was dead. We are glad to know you are still with us. Larry — but please drop us a card and give us your address. That should be easy with you in the P.O. 
Luke also reported that he was among the "luck>-" numbers to be called early for selective service. At the time of his writing, Luke did not know how the M.D. would feel about his biceps. Let us hear more from you on this, kid. 
And that about makes it! Now you know why we griped so much at the beginning — we can*t operate on these terms — we need your coojiera­tion. Think over what we have suggested and let us have your opinions. 
Rev. Bernard Nlemier, CS.C, was recently ap­pointed assistant pastor of St. Casimir's Roman Catholic church in the Bend. Father Niemier is a native of St. Casimir's and said his first Mass in the church in June, 1939. 
 Foley, I60S6 Scfaoenhwr BsaC 
1936 Paul 
Detroit. RDciuKan. 
From John Horan: 
Remember Oar live Year Reunion Next Blay 30 (Memorial Day), Hay 31 and June 1! Hike Yoar Plaiu Now To Attend and Have a Whale of A llmel Get The Ganr In Yoar Part of The Coantry Headed Back For a Great Week-end! 
To acknowledge some of the Christmas cards that came our way during the Yule season: Walt Matnaevich, from Cerro de Pasco, Feni, asked to be remembered to the gang in New York and New Jersey, and promised a letter at a later' date. 
Alan Donovan asked for information regarding Vinnie Carran. Sorry but Vinnie hasn't been heard from in some time, Al, so we'll just have to let him write you direct. And while you're at it, Vinnie, we would appreciate a line too. Also In the mails were cards from Dr. Ken Laws, Lin Phoebus, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Mansfield. B«h Cava­nangh, Tom Campbell, Mr. and Mrs. Wayne Thnrm, Mr, and Mrs. Al Torribio, Mr, and Ifrs. Blickey Dendler, Mr. and SCrs. Tom Vicats. 
Also John Walker, Jim Sherry, Bill Wald^ Jiai Kirby, John ^echan, Andy Hnfnagd, Boh Laser, Jerry Vogel and John Staonton. 
Bud Goldman said that we erroneously listed his address in a recent column. It should be P.O. Box 1588, Pittsburgh, Pa. Sorry, Bud. 
Jerry Vogel, 2255 N. Alabama. Indianapolis, wrote that he will be looking forward to' seeiiiflr all the gang next Ifay at reunion. Jim Kirhy, who is currently stationed in New Hampshire on an assignment from the accounting firm in New York where he works, spent the holidays in New York after returning from a stay of several months in North Carolina. 
The column's mail bag contained this month only a missive from Midcey Dendler. Mick^ writes in part: "Mrs. Dendler and I are at last In­stalled in 2353 N. Oeveland Ave., Philadelphia, with piles of painting yet to be done, and furni­ture to be moved. I've been In the Claims Depart­ment of the Indemnity Insurance Company of North America since April 1 last. Hours are uncertain but the work is mighty interesting. Connie Byrne is still with Schicter Jute Com­pany in Fhilly, while Joe Barber is Erie's (Pa.) up-and-coming barrister." 
How about a big helping hand from yon boys.^ to keep the mailman busy? 
Bumped into Panl Doyle at the December ahnn­ni meeting and learned that the ex-**(^ta]7zer" editor is with the Union Carbon A Carbide Com­pany here in New York and doing mighty well. 

. Jim Dntton. who is assistant to the diief of tbe Hiscdlaneous Tax Division in the Hartford. Conn., office of the Internal Revenue Department, came down to the New York office on business in De­cember and dropped by to say "hello" to your secretary. 
Learned throus^ Charley CaBihan, '38. whom we met at a basketball game in Madison Square Garden in January, that Joe Frcndergast is now with the A. T. Grant Stores in Hackensack. N. J. How about a line, Joe? Charley is number three in the F^ruaiy draft from the Boston area. And, in line with that, we would like to learn how many of the 1936 gang are now in the Army. Navy or Aviation branches of the service, and whether any of the boys have been drafted. Com'on, you soldiers and sailors! 
We could use lots and lots of letters from some of you hibernating *36ers. Ship them along. 
James W, Fox, principal of the Mar-Ken high school, Hollywood, Calif., has informed the Uni­versity that Billy and Bobby Mauch, famed twins of the silver screen who starred in Mark Twain's "The Prince and the Pauper," anticipate entering Notre Dame next September. They are at present sailors in Jim's school. 
•fl^th the Royal Air Force "somewhere in Eng­land" is John- V. L. Flynn, who is helping the ­English gallant birdmen repulse air attacks over the British Isles. 
 Moras, CI E. S5th St . Ayt. 2, 

1937 Jen 
New York Citr. 

Attorney Bernard Niczer deserted Fort Wayne, Ind., for Washington, D.C., where he received the post of junior counsel in the legal department of the Federal Securities agency. Bemie was grad­uated in law from ]bidiana University last year. 
Phil Welsh, Anderson, Ind., re-visited the campus Jan. 12. Phil was hoping to join the Marfne Reserves. He was graduated from Har­vard Law last June. 
Jahn J. Ledmcr was elected president of the Congresnonal club in the Hotel LaSalle down in the Bend recently. You may remember him as a former editor of the Student Notes section of this publication. 
1938 Harold A. Williams. 308 East Lake Ave., Baltimore, Maryland. 
From Hal Williams: Some Christmas cards — one or two with notes atta^ed — an unusual birth announcement, two letters, and some first-hand information from two classmates who visited Baltimore recently, are the only news sources I have for this month's edition. Read slowly for there is not much. 
The fly-specked, bespangled badge of honor this month is awarded to Redman Daggan, of Alamosa, Colo., for this newsy and interesting letter. Mr. Duegan: 
"Even though my name has appeared in the *38 section of the 'Alumnus* quite frequently of late, your plea for correspondence in the last issue was too tearful to be ignored. Therefore, from this out-of-the-way sixjt on the top of the world, I take the liberty of adding my little bit. 
"Even though the place where I hang my hat these days is Marty Hasang*s ('39) old home town, even Marty has departed from these climes, which are mostly 27 degrees below zero these days, and 
N.D. men are few and far between. Marty, as has been preriously reported, is devising legal reme­dies in Paonia. Cblo. However, one does see or hear from a few NJ). men occasionally. 
Taa l Murphy, of the class of '32. operates a farm eqoipment concern right across the street from my office. Joe mgn>, when I last saw him. was Btudyinff for the bar exams at his home. 100 miles across the hills in the far-famed town of Trinidad. TbiB was Fred Silk's ('39) home, too. I saw a good deal of Fred while I was worldng for the Social Security Board in Trinidad last Bummer. Fred is plugging away at the Michigan Law SchooL Herb Fairall came to Trinidad on 
. business several times while I was stationed there. Herb is working on his father's paper, *The Rec­ord/ in Denver, I believe. Charlie and Roger Barrack were also in Trinidad during the summer. Roger is in the automobile business there, while Charlie was planning, after his graduation at N.D. last June, on attending law school at the Univer­sity of Colorado. 
**B& old roommate, Frank Larwood, tells me that he has a good berth on the Newberg (Oregon) 'Graphic* — the result, no doubt, of his imbibing the wise pronouncements of Bill Coar, sage of Sorin Sub. Frank keeps track of the Oregon con­tingent very well. He tells me that Ed 0*Heara, who took his Master's with me at N.I>. in '39. is now with the McMinnville (Ore.) Telephone-Register.* 
**Babe*' Iicroy, when last I heard, was teaching and coadiing at St. Mary's ffigh School in Osh­kosh. Wis. Can't seem to extract a letter from him, so perhaps he's departed, \ince Murphy, the *37 Sorin Sub social leader, tells me that he is with the Illinois State Unemployment Compensa­tion people in Decatur. HI., and liking the work very much. Vince has a wife and a baby boy, Ibomas Brian, N.D. *58. 
**As for myself,' I've been with the Old-Age Insurance Branch of Social Security (the place where they dole out Social Security numbers) for the past year and enjoy the work immensely. I took training in Washington and Baltimore during the winter of '39-*40. saw everyone at Catholic University, including Bemie Feeney, -who. I gather, is so busy that he can't answer letters. . . . 
"Since that time X worked in the Denver office of the Board, associating with the N.D. Club of Denver, a magnificent bunch of fellows. Finally, in August I was given my own office, through which I manage ten counties of southwestern Colorado, embracing an area of about 15,000 square miles and not many more people. 
"Hie mountains, the elks and the Indians are not enough company, so I took myself a wife — my South Bend 'Sue' — Lucille Schuell. Had a hard time lassoing her but we were married in Denver on Sept. 7. With the bride came, at last count, 147 wedding presents, for which I've yet to find an apartment large enough. But marriage is great stuff, especially if the gal can cook sour dough biscuits like my wife can. . . . 
"In closing. I'd like to ask letters or the ad­dresses of Jerome Kane and Jim Raaf (is Peru enough?). Adrian Martin, Tom Haher and Tom Bohen* t^E^tor's note: Will you fellows please oblige Redman with those letters or at least the addresses on a penny postcard ?] My draft number was 1181, which means in this country that I will probably be holding my great-grandson on my knee when the mailman brings me my question­naire." • 
Thanks, Redman, for the swell letter. Hope yon will write again very soon. 
From Don Hickey on some very fancy station­ery; 
"Saw a few of the lads in this fall for the games. Tom Kavanach* from Detroit, reports wife and baby fine. Eddie Brower and Bill Robin­••n dropped into the fiesta the week-end of the 
• Carnegie game. Bill married. Johnny O'Connor, 'Paffy' Carson were up from Indianapolis for sev­eral of the games. Saw Ed Bash from Flint for the first time since he left school in our junior year. Bok lliaringer was in for several of the games, as was Lake lleman, WincheH's friend. 
"George Keenan and Pete McCarron were in the Bend for the Carnegie game. Saw them at Rosie's, then at the Oliver. Saw Bob Hadonan and Pete Shccfaan, .the Cleveland delegation, at the Iowa game. Talked to Joluuy Kdly and Gcaa Vasktt via telephone from New York the night of the Army game. Johnny called me at work about midnis^t from the Penn Bar and Gene got on the wire too. I was thrilled to death. It sounded so good to hear those old voices agsun. I can im­agine what a great time yon all had together. Pm going to make that game next year if it kills me 
— and it probably will. 
"Johnny Moir dropped in just before Christmas on his way to €!hicago with the Firestone team. He looks fine. Paul Nowak was in also; home for Christmas from Alcron. He's still with Firestone but gave up basketball to- s]>end more time with his work. Tommy WalniTits ia also with them. He's going down the middle aisle this summer. 
"Jack Hynes was married several months ago. Jack Moulder will be married in several months, according to information. 
"My parents saw Kyle Donnell and Hab KirdH man in Los Angeles. They are still together in the gas and parking lot business. Joe KakaiiA and Joe Beinor dropped in on their way to New Tork and Florida. They had just finished a pretty good seasod with the (Chicago Cardinals. Say Meyer and his wife were in town Monday night, came in for the N.D.-IlUnois basketball game. 
"This is unofficial but I think Bay is going to help Cieorge Keogan with the hardwood team. .. . I hope to get east after the first of the year, and if I do Baltimore is the main stop, so until . . ." 
Thanks a lot. Hick, and by all means stop off in Baltimore, l^at was an interesting letter filled with news. Hope you keep the hot-comer covered like that in the future. 
Incidentally, Hick had the right dope on Mejrer. Hie other day I saw an Associated Press dispatch, dated Jan. 4, saying "Ray J. Mcjrer, two*time captain of the Notre Dame basketball team, re­turned to his alma mater to assist Head Oige Ooach George E. Keogan.** Congratulations, Ray. 
That makes the second '38 man to land a coadi­ing job at N.D, 
Around the latter part of November Fcntm Mee, now stationed at Qnantico, Va., as a second lieutenant, spent a week-end in Baltimore while the Marines were playing the Baltimore Firemen. Fenton and I had a nice visit. ^ is as quiet as ever and outside of saying that he likes the service life and that he saw Jack Deane and Johnny Wit-son, who are studying at the FBI school at Wash­ington, or near Washington (I forget), he did not have much to say. Just before CThristmas that old English major. Bill Woemer, stopped over in Balti­more while on business for Seagram-Distillers Oirporation. Bill has been transferred from the West Coast and is now in Louisville. IJidnded on his trip east was a week at New York and while there he visited Ed Bartnctt and Bill GalHn. 
On Dec. 18 I had a very interesting note from the Rev. Vincent Thilman, C.S.C., *35, from tiie St. Charles Boys' Home, Wanwatosa,. Wis., that settles a point that has hung in the air in these columns for several months. 
Says Father Thilman, "In the last month's 'Alunmus* you mention that Adrian (Joe) Race is working at M.G.M. Studios. Perhaps the boys of '38 would be interested to know that Adrian wait from M.G.M. (no. not C.S.G.) but to St. FVands Seminary of the Ardidiocese of Milwaukee. Maybe the boys will say a prayer for his success toward that eternal drama of the Mass.'* 
To Father Thilman many, many thanks for thU piece of real news. I know the boys will remonber Joe in their prayers. It also would be nice if some of you bums would drop Joe a line. 
Put out as a book announcement was tiiis piece of publicity by TOM HatddaMs. "Nine months in preparation. . . . Now the Home of Hotddnaoo, publidwr^ ii prood to •*"*-«^««« an amaiing new first addition — 'Stephen Akv­sios.' Go-authored by Boae and Ton Hotdiinaan — eopyri^t 4:16 P. M., November 12. Critiea aay: 'Seven poondM of tip snorting drama.' Baltiiaora 'Son'; T^roly the most awakening ^-jfy*"*^ in years,* XncBanapoUs *Newa*; 'A Howlins Siircca^' ­Saturday Review of Literature. On £splay at 1C27 North Coknrado street after Deea. " 
About a month ago Pete Petcissa and Ed Kiv­anaagh, now in Baltimore for the Glenn L. Mazw tin Airplane Company, stopped over for a poker game. Both planned to visit thdr homes daring the Christmas vacation. 
And now for the Christmas cards. On tiie bade of his Christmas card, Ja A "Deacon**) Antaa writes: "Hissed the Army game this year but PU be there next year. Jehany WOBMI ia now em­ployed by the FBI and is at present in San Diego. [Editor's note — Must have left Waahins­ton after Hee saw him.] Jain CCeaaer is in Washington taking the training coarse for the FBL 1 suggest that yoa try to communicate with Banny McCevaidc — no one heard &om him In ages and a few of the lads have been asldng me about him. I just wrote him again and hope to recdve an answ^. All is well hae in Chicago. I am still dn ^ and will be when I see yoa next year at the Army game. Regards to all the boys in the easL Win write soon.*' This on Jstai CMoose'*) Wiatcra card: "Long time no wee. I am so busy that I get dam little time for literary efforts. I am about to take unto myself a wife. 
- Date, Jan. 11. Place. Sacred Heart Church, NJ). Saw very few of the old faces from time to time. Perhaps after I have accpdred a ball and ch^n I win have time to write a real letter. . . ." 
NidE LaaiAert% laconically, "Glad to see yoa're. still pounding oat thoae reams of eopy. Pm stUI with Honsdiold Finance Corp. Love life at atand­stilL Yoa?**. [E£tar*s note: Later word pots Laraberto on fht effitorial staff of the Soax CUy. Iowa. "T^ibane,** as of Jan. 4.] Kram Snde Bbaiia, "Tes, I'm stm In drcnlatlott out here In the wilds of Kansas, trying to diow Dad what N J>. tan^t me about rnnninff an tJH bnalneas. Don't see many of the old dassmates ootdde of INdc Banes and Dave Crsaks here in town, but enj(nr rea^ng of the '38 class reunions at tiw Penn Bar." 
Then there were cards from Hank 1hcis» Scett Rcardan (gives an In^rect promise to write soon). Tern Elder, ChaiBe CaPahaw, Bad Ohtiwaed and wife. Bad and Gerry Ks ^ (1900 El Pradow N.W.. Canton, Ohio), Beb Leomitd, Jack Giawlcy. Bfl Gibfcaas, Bab Hcywao^ Ray and Bab McGiaA. BOt BaUaam and wife. Cha^ BiaafaH. Jade Cleaiy. Gene Vadttt, Ed Kavanaaa^ VM Wecr­ner. Bab ScOly, Hoak Kerwia (S290 East Scar-borons^ road, Cleveland Hri^its. Ohio), Tex Haggar, and Ed Bartnett. 
Tex, BiO Bebiaiaa. Scett Reaidon, Kmak. Ilwia, and Jade Crawley always come throusji witii Christmas cardan bat they never write letters. How about some letters — even diort notes — tnm yoa fenows telling what yon are ddng to set the worid on fire or put the fires out. A ? 
I have not heard any news about *38 boys bdnff drafted. Either the boys have been nnusaally lucky in the draw or the Array is keeping them too busy to write. U any of yoa fdlows are in the Array. Navy, Marines, or the Borne Gnard. drop me a line and Pn see to It that the wives of our married dassmates win bal« yoa some cookies or knit yoa some nice, warm socks. 
That*8 about an nntfl the next ecBtlon. As soon as I post this stuff Pll start in trying to dnm «p some news from the boys who haven*t ba a heard 
^f^om for a long time. Oh yes, by aR maanau a very happy New Year to yoo aUI 
Address Francis F. Valetich as "Private" Frank for a year, men. Frank was selected under the provisions of the Selective Service act and will receive mail for the present at the First Chemical Co. laboratory, Edeewood Arsenal, Md. 
Phil Shields, 1213 Grand Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich., is working in Bay City, Mich., for Gen­eral Tire Company as the manager of a store. 
Mike Booney is now located in Wilmington in the construction division of the duFont company, according to Bob Thomas, '37. 
Phil Kirch is working as investigator for Household Finance Corp. in Chicaso. 
Gcorsc Morris, LL.B. '40, passed the Michigan Bar in September and is (or was) hoping for a job in Internal Bevenue in Detroit. 
From Georse D. Kerwin comes word that he is rooming with Raymond E. Fiedler at 7010 Cregier Ave., Chicago. 
109 0 Vincent DeConney, 205 Bmsh Crack. 
• '* ' Kanus City, Missouri. 
From Vince DeConrsey: 
The big fat man with the red underwear must have left most of the boys a little case of ^vxiter's cramp as his Yuletide blessing. At least so it would seem from the returns that came in during this two-month inter\-al in the annual life of the "Alumnus." Plenty of cards but few notes there­in, several letters, a few hearsay quotations, and that will just about sum up the entire collection for the period. 
Came an engraved announcement in the mall just too late for last month: "Dr. and Mrs. Francis J. Boslett announce the marriage of their daughter, Jean, to Mr. H. Scott Shccdy on Thurs­day, November the twenty-eighth, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania." In a few months, after Scott has settled down, he ought to at least drop us his address, so that a few of the boys could wish him well. 
Norm Jandoli's letter came in just a day or so after the last batch of copy went to the printer and it was too bad because Jan's little note had quite a bit of information per line. Mr. Jandoli added a footnote that there was no Mrs., that he's living alone and liking it. And among other things in his letter he said: 
"I met Joe Bizzi in Newark, N. J., last week. He gave me a ring from his Hotel Douglas suite, and vre arranged a meeting. Joe's wotlcing for tli6 
R. G. Rankin Co., an accountinff firm, lookinff great. He told me Ihat he is now a C.P.A., havine successfully passed rigid exams last summer. I learned from Joe that Joe Beinor is playing pro-football somewhere in the south and that his former aspirations to teach swimming have been shattered. Tom Mclntyre writes that he and Doris (the wife) are doing -well, and that 4IS14 E. Gilbert St.. Muncie, Ind.. is quite a place to live. Tom is with the Sears di\-ision there, and doing fine for himself. Jim Clifford. Tom's roommate in Alumni, is with the same company in Springfield. Ohio, running the credit department. I see George Plain around the area now and then, and leam he is doing well with Household Tinance Corp." Jan's address is 140 Rollinson St.. "West Orange, N. J. 
Joe Hanington, -who is in fact the best corre­spondent this column has, dropped in with another interesting letter, written on Armistice Day. He wanted first of all to extend his regards to Larry Sotton and congratulations on passing his exams for government service. One of the Naval Reserve training ships dropped anchor in Panama early in November and off it clambered none other than Moose Wniiaiiu, of Sorin Hall. Also Joe thought that he saw Bob 0*Neil, MO, on the street but never did make certain. 

When Notre Dame's ex-president. Biilwp O'Han, was in Panama, Joe says that he had a couple of visits. And as a word of complaint Joe said that N.D. games had not been coming in so well over long wave. Joe reported that the Span­ish broadcasts of the Penn-Navy game were well received by the local latins, and that he had been kept busy explaining some of the technical angles of the game. Joe writes the damdest interesting and exciting letters we have ever received. 
As a final word, Joe wanted someone in the Boston-Providence-Newport area to work on the mystery of whatever happened to James Ta^ r Connell, Jr. 
There were two big events in the local Notre Dame news this month: the annua! dance, and the marriage of Bob Haether. The dance called oat just about everyone around here who had ever seen a Notre Dame team, and a few who attended the school. Anyhow it was a howling success. Joe Cole dropped into town for the big affair. Jade Hayes and Dolan MeKelrey came from Atchison. Kans.. and Leo TnrEeon came all the way from Topeka. 
We were all nice and cozy one night before Christmas when the phone rang and someone wanted some instructions on washing dishes. After we recovered, the voice identified itself as Bob Hnethcr. just arrived in town. We didn't get to see him before the wedding but Tom Reardon and I attended the affair on Dec. 6. and were quite happy in meeting his bride, the former Eleanor DeCIercq. who had come here after leaving South Bend. Another Notre Dame man. her brother-in­law, was best man. Bob left immediately after the ceremony and if he reads this before hearing fi-om us, it wiM be because the films tny brother took have not yet been developed. Anyway we wish him the best of luck and all the happiness in the world. Tom Foj'e had written a letter (see below) iust before the arrival of the groom and mention of the fact to Bob (wonder if all those things did happen ?) brought a question Tom has to answer in his next letter — something about an Irish sophomore at U.S.C. 
Tom's letter contained quite a hit of informa­tion about what went on In Southern California, before and immediately after the Southern Cal game. Tom Foy (Law. '39) came in from New Mexico, where he is working for a local law firm. Greg Cashing and his wife were at the Biltmore the night before the game. Monk Meyer and his wife were at the game and the celebration at the Biltmore Bowl. Monk is working in Los Angeles, but Tom was not sure of the connection. Winny Schnlfe, ex. '39. is now at Douglas; Sweeny Tack is an engineer at Northup — he knocked around quite a bit before this job. but is all set now. Chick Raascfa is now selling and teaching speech courses at a local evening school. Vince Dargan is out in Los Angeles, working for a local drug chain company. Jim and Dave Bernard are both working in banks in the city. Tom adds that he is still with Richfield Oil, is not married, and not worried about the draft, number 7527; an attempt to get into the naval reser\'es was frustrated by an eye test. And for the nice letter we certainly thank Tom and are awaiting curiously his an­swer to Bob's question. 
The postman brought quite a batch of cards from the boys around Christmas, hut unfortunately there were few who added any information about themselves. Among those heard from briefly were Charlie Bennett, from St. Augustine; Art Davis; John Starkie. whose card was mailed from Kansas City, and demands some explanation; Tom RodK. and from him no address, no news, although any­thing would be welcome; AI Nigro. whom we saw several times before he headed back to med school and exams at St. Louis; Charlie Nelson, again the inimitnble card; Grsham Starr; Bob Haywood; 
P. G. Bineda, my old "Scholastic" side-kick to whom we fully intend to write soon: Harry Kaiser; Joe Harrington, in addition to the long letter; Frank Parks; Mr, and Mrs. M. J. Gorman, Jr.* and why doesn't Jim write and give his address — it's been a long time since we've seen him and it would be great to renew old times; Bob Carmody; Didc Anton; Joe Kinnealey; Bob VoeDur; Fred Digby; Tom Bolger; Hark J. Mitcbdl; Tom Foye, whose letter came with the card; Harriet and Frank Gaglione, also whose address we would like to know; Bill Donnelly; and Cari Fricke. 
Bob Shepbezd, who said that he was in the accounting department of the Richmond. Va., power company, noted on his card that he didn't get to see much of the boys down his way. but that ROSKU Biiey and Frank Kelly are well on their way to becoming eminent. medicos at the Medical College of Virginia. Dan Sheedy's poetic card, bless his Republican heart, showed him in the navy and still without the gift of meter. Jack Nearaann wanted xis to drive half-way to Chicago and meet Didc Anton and him for a nice early summer reunion. Sounds swell and perhaps it could be worked out. Will see what can be worked out in the spring. 
Dick and Don O'Mclia sent their usual note,' a tittle shorter, but certainly to the point. Among other things, they noted that OUie Helland was in the navy air corps, and that Bill Kerwin is work­ing in Milwaukee, as is Bob Kieman. Dick said that he saw a lot of the boys at the Iowa game but didn't say who. Bemie Feeney wanted us to keep the faith and said that he was still in Z.aw School at (^tholic U., so we pass the advice right back at him. Jalie Tonsmcire wrote to say that Tom Maker and Miss Florence Rigley of Detroit, who is now attending school in N. Y.. have an­nounced their engagement. Then Fred Sisk. with whom we were planning a rousing get-together, at the last minute dropped in with a few well chosen words to the effect that it would be im­possible to come to Kansas City this trip, but that some time it will happen. We will wait patiently for such a time, but a little more impatiently for the letter that he promised. 
And that winds up all that can be gathered for the combination issue. May next month bring hap­pier tidings, and lots more news. 
Moving from Brown University, Eari Brown was recently named to a position on the Harvard athletic staff, where he will start his duties in spring football drills. Earl will 'coach the Har­vard ends and w*ill also coach basketball next season. 
Al Respondek (K.E. *39) came through with a note to the effect that he is now a civilian radio instructor in the Army air corps at Belleville, III.. (Scott rield) after resigning as chief engi­neer at Station KPAB. Laredo. Texas. 
Bin Range reports that is now a junior in­spector in the Wage Hour division of the De­partment of Labor. He was receiving his train­ing in Chicago when he wrote, 
George Dempsey postcards from Wilmington. Del., that he has been selected for national de­fense in the January draft. Mail will be for­warded to him from 189 E. Irving St., Oshkosh. Tins. 
Bob Kennedy, who received his Master's degree in MO, is a marine officer in Cuba. Bob got his 2nd lieutenant's commission in the Marines follow­ing a couple of summers of training. 
Notre Dame news from Panama! 
From Joe Harrington, of Box 43. Colon, Pan­ama, comes the following: 
''Raphael Grimaldo, who spent three years at Notre Dame. '29-'31. lives in the same apartment building with me, just across the court. He is a very busy fellow these days with plenty of con­tracts for electrical work on new buildings to replace those destroyed by fire last April. 
"In Cristobal. John S. Pettcnffill, '35. is still 

the director of athletics for the government play­
grounds. His swimming team cleaned up every­
thing in the Pan-American swimming meet in 
Ecuador a few months ago. 
"The movie. *Knnte Rodcne—^AU American/ 

was shown here a few weeks back in English. 
They say it may return later with Spanish sub­
titles." 
10 ^ A Robert G. Smnford. 3934 N. MuTlaad 
• y*^^ ATC , aOIwMkee, Wlsamrin-

From Bob Santord: Few letters have reached me since November, and I have been very busy at a new job, so the news is really scarce. Ben Hardock, of South Bend, a fellow account­ant, writes of his accounting work. "I'm connected with Willet & Wharton, certified public account­ants, largest public accounting firm in town, and intend to take a stab at the C.P.A. exams in Hay or November." Thanks very much, Ben. and if you hear of the S.B. boys be sure and let me know. Didc Alberts should be about ready to find a little time to write. George Ward writes: "As the 'Alumnus* is read every month, familiar names revive that intimate touch with Notre Dame. It is very interesting to me to note the progress which the members of our class are making, domestically, financially and otherwise. "Regarding my domestic status: married!. It was done in secrecy last May and obviously un­heralded. I married one Alice Maryann Pankin of Bay City, who, my friends will recall, joined me at the Senior Ball. From a business point of view, I am engaged in accounting with my father who is a CPJV... and expect to take the Michigan state examination, probably this coming spring. 
"If you consider your office as a sort of Bureau of Missing Persons, kindly advise as to the posi­tion of Bob Rothacker. Wrote him a long time ago and still no reply. I've been keeping in touch with Dave Bernard, however, and he is one of the very few who likes to maintain a healthy corre­spondence." [I haven't experienced the pleasure of Dave's correspondence as yet; maybe he could do something about it. Bob Rothacker is in that great army of '40 grads who cannot be found.T 
"I certainly have been digesting to the fullest, the many comments made in the 'Alumnus/ and know that hundreds of others have been doing likewise. If only one of our classmates ^ets the enjoyment and kick out of reviewing your col­umn, your efforts shall not have been in vain. Hoping then to continue to hear from you via the 'Alumnus.*" 
I wish you could have a little more news to look over this month, but then I can't expect many letters as good as yours in one month, George. It really was swell and I will be looking forward to plenty more from you. 
There is a little Milwaukee news. Dan Hnshek has a new job. Rumor has It that he started out at the bottom but has already worked up. He's getting a steady salary now, and that's just a little more than he got selling insurance. John Dean has been working at the Heil Company since November. Johnny Webster was home in Florida, but he just returned to Milwaukee, where every­thing seems to be perfect for him. He says he had a very nice Christmas vacation at home, but there arc certain attractions in Milwaukee. 
Received a card from Johnny Morgan, and can now list him with those who have been accounted for. John says: "Just a line to let you know that I am working for Scoville Manufacturing Com­pany in Waterbury, Conn., and am very satisfied with everything. Keep after the fellows — they'll finally break down like I'm doing." 
This was from Jack "Boles" Morgan, not the other Jolin Morgan. I hope some of them will break down before too long. Jack, but some of those grads are very hard to break — I don't mean financially, because that was never bard to do last year. I appreciate your card. Jack; maybe your example will be followed. 
Your correspondent also has a new job. I am a junior accountant in the firm of PhiUlpson, Fon­teine and McCurdy, certified public accountants, I know, some of you are going to be terribly dis­gusted with all the G.P.A.*s mentioned this month. If you don't like it. why don't you give me Mane-thing else to write about. The work is very inter­esting and not as hard as the work in Mr. Chizek's classes, and. for those of yon who don't know, that's not saying my new work is easy. I work 40 hours a week and put in from 30 to 40 hours overtime, so you can see that I haven't an awful lot of time td do as I wish. 
Right here and now I promise never to take up so much space writing about myself, because this is your article not mine; I just collect, the material. Of course, we can adways plan on hear­ing from Dave Sprafke and no matter what hap­pens I know I will always have his news to print. Dave sends the following: "I even surprise myself by 'sticking* to duty right on the brink of the holiday season. Here is my bit for the month: Ed Hart (E.E.) managed to slip in a few words from Worcester, Mass.. this month. He is having a short stay with a leather goods manufacturing company and. judging from his report, has gar­nered considerable knowledge relative to the 'odors' in a tannery. His letter is all the' more important because it carried the information tliat Jim Kelly (M.K) and Bort Hall (A.E.) are both employed by the Glenn Martin Aero. Corp., in Bal­timore. Md. Hall is presently recovering from an operation. 
"Mr. and Mrs, Steren Sitko (also known as Steve) (M.E.) are now residing in Akron, Ohio. to where Steve has been transferred following a short apprenticeship in the Goodyear plant at Jackson, Mich. He is very enthusiastic about his new job, which holds bright prosjiects for the future. His work keeps him very busy, but he has had time to sharpen his eye for basketball and reports having run into Pant DnCfcanne, Paal Nowak, Johnny Moir and Tommy Wnkovits, who need no introduction. 
"Bob Loaghery (M.E,) is busy in Cleveland for 
the New York Central Railroad. Both Bob and 
Steve are newly initiated members of the K. of O. 
"Bob Dougherty (A.B.), having recovered from a seiious operation this past summer, is finishing his studies at the Columbia Law School. Bob men­tions Dick Fallon and Tom ftlinogae as classmates. Russ Jandoli resides in the same hall, and on occasions. Bob and Russ have been joined by Bill Small who motored over from Jersey, where he is^ working, for a little 'get-together.'" Dave, yon make this position an enjoyable job with those kind of letters. Just keep them coming and the clnss of '40 will always have some good news. 
A number of fellows sent me cards during the holiday season and I want to thank all of you for them. Many of you promised to write and I know that you will. Marc Gmenenfelder sends his greet­ings to all and promises to spend some of his free time tracking a few of the boys down-John Donohne is going to take care of some Chicago news, which .Bemie Masterson has missed. Tom Ford will cover a couple of the Eastern colleges. Loa Cenni, the first of the 'meds' to break down, is going to set an example for the others. Paal Menneg "will write soon and give a little 'dirt' on the Men of Manhattan." Tom Liston will take time off from the Chicago Stock Exchange to send a little more news. John Gavan hasn't been to South Bend lately, but gets around Chicago. 
Ed Fulham puts California into print, and does a very good job of it. just as a great journalist should do. Ed writes: "I bumped into some of the lads at the Biltmore Hotel after the Southern Cal game, and 1*11 try to remember what was said — or what was said that you can print. 
''Fraafc Guter ia wwking as a prodoetion clerk for Lockheed. Jalm GOnue is at the U.S.C. med school .. . he dieered. however, for the Irish. GMTSS MeAcr is mannfaetoring sosoethins for somdndy, I forget whou GUcfc Saasch» '39» ia mixed op in some perscmality development job. He most have taken the coarse judging from the 'wmy he had them kn^iiii*. Tbm Fere. '39, is workins in the accounting department of Richfidd Oil. 
"Tha^s all I know. I saw some of the other fellows, bat didn't get a chance to talk to them. Hie game was a honey even though the Southern Cal qwrts writers alibied that TT.S.C. had fin. 
"As for mysdf. I'm still in that great army. They tell me I missed the job with Disney on account of the war, but that there's a chance in the future. At the moment I'm taking shorthand at a badness college, and working part time keeXK ing books for a small attto glass shop. I mi^ t add. tiiat I'm keeping the books in just the man­ner one would expect from a guy who studied journalism. The bmdness school is great stuff. Pm the only man in the joint. Unfortunately, i f s not as much fun as it sounds." 
Ed, that's a great letter and yon know I ap-* preciate it. 
Jim Ca^cr, Ed's former roommate, is back at 
N.D. working in the biology labs. I haven't re­ceived a report as yet, but I imagine he must be some sort of an associate professor by now. Ncal Gleaaen got him out of bed very early New Year's day by sending him a telegram. 
Ihanks for all the cards, fellows, and let*s get started next month with plenty of news for the rest of the year. 
Cadets Fredrick P. Jenks, of JJOS Angeles, and John P. Hcnekry, of Plainfield, HL,' were gradu­ated from the flight training class at Randolph field, Texas, Christmas week. They were trans­ferred to the advanced flying sdiool at Kelly Field for a final ten week^ instruction before recaving their wings and commissions as second lieo* tenants. 
John BDynaU is working near LaPorte. Ind., with the Bates & Rogers Construction Corp., builders of a large munitions plant there. 
Edgar H. Anderaon writes to say that he has a position in the ballistics department at du­Font's powder plant in Memphis. 
Scheduled to leave South Bend on Feb. 10 for induction into the army as a draftee is Ben ^leridan, blond dynamo of the gridiron. Bennie served the past football season at the Bend's newest high school, John Adams. His season record was commendable in the face of great odds. 
Thomas IS. Philpott. hoiKs to receive his com* 
mission in the Marine Corps by February. 
Tom O'Reilly is at the University of Virginia 
Law school. 
Didc Barke, of Dowagiac. Mich., is the newest addition to the staff of the accounting office at Notre Dame. 
Gene Golden is with Graybar Electric company In Richmond, Va.. and Jack Made is with Asso­ciates Investment Company "somewhere in the East." 
Numbered among the newly-elected officers of the Congressional club in the Bend are Rkhard 
L. BaiMcr, secretary; Carroll A. Michcb, treas­urer; and, Robert J. Gammadi, vice-president. John J. Ledmer,' 37. is president. Dick recently was awarded a citation of merit from Francia 
E. Fergas, ex-president and charter member of the club, at the club's fifth annual dinner. De­vere D. Plaakctt, '30, associate professor of his­tory at Notre Dame, was the principal speaker at the dinner. 
New iwlicemen of South Bend are Lools M. JankewaU. ex. '40. and Edmund J. Nowak, er. •41. 
The Eighteenth Annual 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
Monday. April 27, 7947 

Here it comes . . . peace or war . . . rain or shine . . . for richer or poorer! The ISth annual, universal tribute by Noti-e Dame men, and the gi'owing group of Friends of Notre Dame, to the University they love! Last year we liarked back, in emphasis, to the founding of the Night, to the record of the University, to the basis for tribute. This year, let's pennit the Night and the University to reverse the glass — to see who these 
are who pay tribute, tonight. NOTRE DAME MEN! Who are Notre Dame men? That story will surprise many! What are Notre Dame men? Easier, what are they not! Where are Notre Dame men? Universal as the Night itself! Why are Notre Dame men? The nation should hear this story! The national radio program which we hope to present will carry this dramatic story in its 
universal scope. Publicity will emphasize this theme in its news and in its drama. And in each of the 93 Clubs, there should be special emphasis placed on the local identifica­
tion of Notre Dame men in the light of the above suggestions. The Alumni Office will once more prepare scripts for the Clubs and local alumni to present over local radio facilities in keeping with the theme, to be adapted by each Club to its 
local opportunities. Arrange for time NOW. Ask for the campus speaker you want NOW. Line up your local celebrities — alumni, parents of present students, clei'gy, LL.Ds., Laetare 
Medalists, local educators, editors, columnists, etc. NOW. April 21, Spring, is on its way. Calendar pads are filling up. Publicity should be planned — begun in March at the latest, and followed up! Committees, the time, the place, the guests, are immediate problems! Come storm, or not, we want no lull! 






