The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL DRIVE TO CLOSE FEB. 15 
(See Pase 113) 
Entrance to Law Building 


Vol. 17 FEBRUARY, 1939 No. 4 


GIFTS 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
Anonymous (An alumnus) — For needy Students.. ..$ 200.00 
J. F. T. O'Connor, Los Angeles, Calif. 40.00 Mr. Herman Feigenheimer, Chicago, 111 „ 25.00 
The Julius Nieuwiand Memorial Foundation 
Previously acknowledged -544,625.45 
200.00 

"In Memory of Mr. and Mrs. Fi-ancis R. Schneider"..— 
..?44,825.45 . Grand total to date ­

For the Rockne Memorial 

(Contributions entered from Dec 1, 1938 to Jan. 5, 19yj>, ire.) 
 AIir()tl, San Francis<.o..S 25.00 Ecenc Fitzpatrick, '14, San Francisco_S 25.00 P. A. Q-Neil. _
Bernard J. Chicago., Ill_  SIOO.OO Anonymous .— S 50.00 John J. Geddes. '32, Chicago, III S 25.00 James E. O'Rilcy, River Forest, 111 $ 25.00 
Thomas L. Goss, '25. Philadelphia S 10.00 James E. Gorman. Chicago, 111 S 25.00 J. F. Odem, '16. Sinton. Tex SIOO.OO 
V. J. Brown. •2S, Syracuse. N. Y S 15.00 Walter C. Bootli. New Yorlc City S 10.00 
George M. Gist, Port Arthur, Tex S 20.00 Rev. C. M. Over, '37, Checkto\vaga,N.Y_S 10.00 
A. M. Grams, '28, La Crosse, Wis—S 25,00 

Edward F. BourliC, '27. Soutli Bend S 10.00 
William A. Grady, '15, Dallas, Tex. S300.00 Fred R. P.-irent, '30, South Bend.. 
Walter F Burke. New Yorlc City. S 20.00 
L. J. Gernon, Detroit (Monthly) S 25.00 P.iul J. Pfohl, '22, Chicago. 111.. _S 10.00 
C. E. Broussard. '13. Beaumont. Tex.__S100.00 
Joseph A. Perry, Chicago, III.-_S 10.00 
Fred C. B.auraan. Aurora. Ill S 2.00 
Harry P. Beam. ChicaRO. III.. ? 25.00 Rev. F, J. Harrison. '33. Bingh'ton.N.Y_S 10.00 Rev.Norbcrt C. Holt, LL.D.,'29. N. D._S100.00 
John T. Borcman, "38. Evansvillc, Ind_.S 10.00 James T. Quinn, '27. Rahway, N. J 5 25.00 
J. D. Boden. •32. Jersey City. N. J S 10.00 James P. H.-rding. Chicago, 111 SIOO.OO 
Sam Brown. South Bend. Ind S 25.00 Thoma." B. Hog.in. Chicago, 111.. -5 6.00 
J. R. Record. '04. Fort Worth, Tex___.S 25.00 
Alfred M. Boehm. '24. ChicaRO, 111 S 15.00 Edward J. Hennessy, Chicago, 111 $ 25.00 (aeorge Leo Resh. Lancaster, Pa—_—_S 2.50 
Raymond R. Bradv. '2-I. Salt Lake City..S 5.00 Andrew J. Huber, '13, Plainfield, N. J._S 10.00 
Thomas E. Reed, '33, South Bend-
R. T. Braun, '14, Port Arthur, Tex S 20.00 A. P. G. Hupfel, Columbus,. 0.__ $ 10.00 Jack C. Rivers, '32, Paducah, Ky-10.00 
John A. Bartley. '25. New York City._S 50.00 Richard J. Hanousek, '27,-Minneapolis S 25.00 
William A. Rapp, San Francisco S 26.60 
John T. Balfe, '20. New York City $100.00 Dr. J. V. Heimann, "21. Liikewood. 0._S 25.00 
H. N . Roberts, '06, Lubbock, Te-X S 10.00 
L. J. Hannon. '09, Port Arthur, Te.\ S 25.00 

Edward Beckman, 'IC. New York City..S 20.00 P. C. Romwcbor. '25, Batesville, Ind._S 50.00 
Walter C. Barton. ChicaEO. Ill S 10.00 
A. Donald Brice. '34, Brooklyn. N. Y...S 5.00 James T. Igoo, Jr., '32, Chicago. Ill S 10.00 
Schillings, South Bend. .S 50.00 
Austin L. Soylo, '31, New Orleans S 10.00 
P. B. Stockhausen, __. 2.00 
 Chicago, III.- .S 

F. J. Brichacck. Chicaco S 25.00 John J. Kelley, '33, Eau Claire, Wis S 1.00 
Miss M. M. Schafer, Chicago, I1I____S 1.00 
W. L. Benitz. M3I.E., '13, South Bend_$ 50.00 P. T. Kelly. P.irk Ridge, III S 25.00 
Raymond H. Schultz, Chicago, III SIOO.OO 
Martin Kennelly. Chicago, 111 S 50.00 

Philip L. Sulliv.in, Chicago, 111 S 50.00 Vincent Cullcn. New York City-_S 25.00 Frank J. Seng, Chicago, HI, S 25.00 
Charles C. Kcrwin, Chicago, III S200.00 

S. J. Candor, Sharon, Pa.. -S 12.00 Rev. J. M. Kinvin. Port Arthur. Te.x S 10.00 
T. T. Sullivan, Chicago, III S 20.00 
W. S. Carlisle. South Bend, Ind S 10.00 Dr. F. J. Kelly. '32. Wilkes Barrc. Pa,..S 5.00 
Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr., '38, Chicago-? 15.00 
Francis J. Kelly, Mansfield. Pa L_S 1.00 Joseph B. Crec\-y. Chicaco. Ill..__$100.00 Andrew Sokerka. '38, Passaic, N. J S 6.00 
E. R. Carney, ChicaEO, III __ S 2.00 Joseph B. SuBTue, Newark. N. J S 25.00 
Harry J. Kirk. '13, Washington, D. C_S 20.00 James Lovelly, Notre Dame, Ind— -S 20.00 

John L. Coyne. Chicago, III ?100.00 South Bend Electric Co., South Bend__S160.00 
M. J. Lcding, '33, Schenectady, N. Y.__S 40.00 John B. Land. '34, Schenectady. N. Y...S 10.00 

J. J. Craddock, Chicajio, 111 S 50.00 Fred B. Snitc, Jr., '33, Chicago SIOO.OO 
Louis J. Cross, Chicago, HI.. ...S 10.00 Signature Loan Co., ChicaKO, III.—. SIOO.OO
Robert P. Lewis. '33, South Bcnd____S 10.00 

Sheldon Clark, Chicago, Ill_ -SIOO.OO J. W. Sulliviin, '30, Royal Oak, Mich_S 10.00 
City N.at'l Bank & Trust Co., Ch!caKo..S 50.00 T. G. Lawler, '30, Fairmont, Minn S 10.00 H. Schultz, '28, Port Arthur. Tex—_S 20.00 Haro' Crisuolo, Newark, N. J. —™..S 5.00 Charles J. Sullivan, '29. Ardsley, N.Y._S 15.00 
Fred L.- Mahafley. '17. Indianapolis S 25.00 Charles Mueller. '34. Cambridge. Mass-.$ 5.00 

Kev. F. J. Cafe.v, Toluca, 111 S 25.00 Dr. T. J. B. Shanley. Butte, Mont S 3.00 
M. B. Cummins. Chicago, 111. S 10.00 B. R. Miley, Bogota, Colombia, S. A S 1.00 Leo Spitz, Chicago, 111 S 10.00 
Herbert A. Clark, River Forest. Ill S 25.00 Charles P. Jfurphy. Chicago, HI SIOO.OO M. •& D. Shechan, Rochester, N. Y S 5.00 Richard F. Cavanaugh, Chicago, III S 50,00 Fred H. Massmann, Chicago, 111 S 50.00 
E. F. Connolly. Notre Dame. Ind.__.-.S100.00 Daniel L. Madden. 06. Chicago, Ill_. _S 10.00 John C. Tully, Oak Park, III.-_S 10.00 Charles W. Call. 'IS, New York City__S 20.00 Bernard Murdock, '38, Elkhart, Ind.. _S 1.00 
Robert W. Toner. '30. Yonkers, N. Y._S 5.00 
Norbert J. Collins. '31. Yonkcrs. N. Y...S 5.00 Anthony F. Mara. Brooklyn, N. Y S 5.00 
J. P. Traj-nor. '25. New York City S 80.00 
James M. Currj". "29, Greit Neck, N. Y„S 20.00 Richard C. Miller. '24. New York City_S 10.00 
Granville Tinnin, '94, Jay Em, Wyo._$ 5.00 
Charles B. Corscr, Altadena, Calif.__SI00.OO Rev. J. F. Murphy, Watorvliet, Mich_S 10.00 
A. J. Crooks, Kansas City. Mo.™- .SIOO.OO E. J. Macksey, Newark. N. J S 5.00 
George H. Vocdisch, '16, South Bend—SIOO.OO 
Barclay Craighead. Helena, Mont S 2.00 John E. Motz. '30. Kitchener, Ont S 10.00 Rev. W. M. Dclaney, Greenville, R. I...S 2.00 
Miss Alice Wolsfelt. Aurora, III S 10.00 
F. E. David, Jr. '28, Pineville. La S 20.00 David H. McClugage. Peoria, III S 10.00 Miss Anna Wolsfelt, Aurora, 111 S 5.00 John E. Dooley. '27, Salt Lake City S 2.00 Charles A. McDonald, Chicago, III SIOO.OO Miss Doris Mae Wolsfelt, Aurora. Ill S 1.00 Walter J. Delaney, Chicago, 111 S lO.f Edward J. McLaughlin, '27, Chicago—S 10,00 Miss Jeanne Wolsfelt. Aurora, 111. S 1.00 
Edward J. Doyle. Chicago, Ill„ _-S 50.00 Dr. G. J. McDonnell, '29, Freehold, N.J._S 10.00 James J. Wolsfelt, Aurora, HI——_5 1.00 John R. Dean, Chicago, III.. -SIOO.OO John P. McGoorty, Jr.. '24, Chicago_S 10.00 Walgreen Drug Stores (Additional) 
J. F. Doyle. '33, St. Catherines, Ont._S 5.00 Daniel F. McMahon Chicago, III SIOO.OO South Bend, Ind S 50.00 William J. Drennan, '23, Chicago, 111 S 5.00 Max McGraw. Chicago, III S 60.00 L. E. Walsh, Chicago, 111 —_ $ 10.00 Wm. Bchan Drcux, '33, New Orleans_..$ 10.00 
Edward J. McCabe. Chicago. Ill S 10.00 William A. Walsh, '96, Yonkers, N.Y_S100.00 
L. J. McCarthy. Ma>-wood. Ill S 10.00 W. A. Walsh, Jr., '36, Yonkers, N.Y-.S 25.00 
Thomas F. Dalton, '•".4, Brooklyn S 5.00 J. K. Mcintosh, '37, Port Arthur. Tcx_S 10.00 J. J. Wilson. Pittsburgh, Pa S 6.00 John F. Dcely. '20. N. Tarrytown,N.Y.S 18.00 P. A. McAnaney, '29. Yonkers, N.Y._S 5.00 George J. Wack, '23. South Bend-_S 35.00 
James U DulT.v. Butte, Mont. — S 5.00 W. B. McDonald, '17. San Francisco $ 25.00 
J. F. Dunne, '28, San Jose, Calif. S 25.00 J. B. McGlynn, '12, E. St. Louis, III,_S100.00 John D, Yelland, '30, Minneapolis S 20.00 Dr. Edward T. Yorkc, '30, Linden, N.J_S 15.00 
F. J. Enright. Chicago, III.-_S 25.00 Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids S 25.00 James R. Nowery, 29, Shrevcport, La-$ 60.00 
Leon Zabriskie. '30, Great Neck. N.Y._S 25.00 Harry P. Nester. '20. Columbus, O S 6.00 
J. R. Hanagan, Chicago, III S 2.00 Total new gifts _S 6,189.10 
Joseph Nesto & Co., Newark, N. J. $ 10.00 

Bernard J. Fallon. Chicago, III SIOO.OO 
John C. Norton, '23, Chicago, 111 $ 10.00 Previously acknowledged , -5207,389.49 
H. C. Flanagan. New York City SIOO.OO Frank E. Folsom, Chicago, 111 S 25.00 Grand total to date -5213,578.59 
F. P. Frascati, '37. Port Arthur, Tex-S 20.00 Dr. L. D. O'Donncll, '17. Pittshurgh—SlOO.OO Hugh P. Fitzgerald. '34. Brooklyn S 6.00 Dr. D. F. O'Connor. Chicago. Ill S 30.00 Simeon T. Flanagan, "14, N. Y. C. S 50.00 J. R. O'Hanlon, '13. Clayton, Mo S 20.00 Wurrcn S. Fogel, '30, N. Y. C S 25.00 A. M. O'Leary, Chicago, III S 10.00 (Sis.) Hugh O'Donnell, c.s.c. 
Edward J. Fleming. Chicago, 111 SIOO.OO James C. O'Connor. Jr., '29, N. Y. C_S 20.00 William J. Froelich. Chicago, HI S100,00 Daniel J. O'Neil, '25, New York City_$ 50.00 Vice-President. • 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 75 The magazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association Member of the American Editor Alunmi Council 
of the University of Kotre Same. Kotre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $3.00 include WiLUAM R. DoOLEY, 76 a year's subscription to THE ALUT.INUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, Member of Nat'I. Catholic Managing Editor 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Alumni Federalion 
Vol. 17 FEBRUARY. 1939 No. 4 
First of the Year Inventory 
[ An Editorial ] 

First-of-the-year is a good time to take inventory. Especially when only one out of five alunmi—^using pay­ment of dues as a measure—cares 
•whether we exist or not. (That is a subtle way of saying that only 20 per cent of our members have paid dues to December 31. There is still time.) 
Now, if our program were simply to feed and shoe the OfRce force, the apathy would be, objectively, explic­able. Sometimes we feel that many alumni assume this is our only aim. So a resume of our current program may be educational if not profitable. 
RECORDS 

The Alumni Office is the only office at the University which keeps post-graduation records of alumni. Many schools maintain separate offices for this purpose. Notre Dame does not. 
In the Alumni Office we have an alphabetical card file of some 10,000 graduates. There is an alphabetical card file of an equal number of non-graduate former students. 
The graduates, comprising until now, with some additional names, the mailing list of the ALUMNUS, are kept in geographical order on ad­dressograph plates, and the Office addresses the ALUMNUS envelopes, football ticket applications, and other mailing matter with its o^vn machin­ery. 
A fourth file is the geographical list of non-graduates. 
And a fifth, very important, is the individual folder file, now containing some 2,500 folders in which are kept pictures, newspaper clippings, ques­tionnaires, and other data of record for alumni as the office receives it. 
If you had trouble with your Christmas card list, you can imagine our day to day problem with what ag­gregates some 45,000 names individ­ually. 
And in addition, to make it tough, we are supposed to have, and furnish frequently, lists of alumni by Classes, and lists of alumni by Club:;. 
CLUBS 

There are 90 Clubs. You read about them in the ALUMNUS. The December issue devoted 8 pages of 6-point type to them. They aren't Topsy. They don't just grow. They require constant contact and coop­peration, too much of which they don't get under our present handi­caps. And we want 100 live Notre Dame Clubs by 1942. 
CLASSES 

There are 50 Class groups. The ALUMNUS devoted 14 pages of 6­point type to them in the' December issue. That represents a lot of con­tact and a long journey from our be­ginnings. A survey has proved that this is the life-blood of the Associa­tion, and we only regret we can't do more contacting, and spend more space. 
Ten Classes will hold their 5-year reunions in June, from the 5th to the 50th anniversaries. That doesn't just happen by spontaneous combustion. It takes planning of which the Office must be an integral part. 
THE ALUMNUS 

The ALUMNUS is the only contact between Notre Dame men, in the ma­jority of individual cases. Nine issues each year bring multiplying prob­lems. 
Advertising, tried in all forms, has pretty much failed. Feature articles and cultural material are handicapped because we haven't the money to en­large and illustrate the magazine. Those who want it Life-style have the same answer. Editorial duties are shared with a. half-dozen other demanding projects. 
We have solicited and received ex­cellent counsel. We have a lot of in­novations in mind that would do a world of good and would please you. But we can't do it on 20 percent sup­port. And the final blow is the Post-office Department's demand that only paid subscribers be kept on the mail­ing list at all. We have fought this oif since January, 1926, but it's ebb tide for the unpaid. 
CORRESPONDENCE 

Personal correspondence is no light matter — and we don't write nearly the number of letters we should. Probably 2,500 letters would be a mild estimate of our pres­ent mail-year, dealing with, it seems, almost as many subjects. The 44 Dis­trict Governors and Lieutenant-Gov­ernors, the 90 Club Presidents, the 50 Class Secretaries and the 90 Club Secretaries, the Board of Directors, and the chairmen of committees of importance throughout the annual program, can't be disposed of by a stencil. Their interest is growing, their value is growing, and we beat our Office breast daily that we seem to wane as they wax. 
We do take advantage of the help­ful stencil whenever possible, and the printing press. That is the only way some 30,000 bills for dues, and many notices to the Clubs and Class­es could be handled at all. 
U. N. D. NIGHT 

Universal Notre Dame Night, about which you talk enthusiastically, we admit, has become an institution. Have you ever angled for a national hook-up? Have you ever tried to get 150 local radio stations to put on simultaneous programs for you? Have you prepared factual data, skits, dia­logue, so that your alumni and these stations can cooperate easily? Have you furnished these outlets with sheet music, phonograph records, publicity materia], etc? We have. 
And that leaves out the little item of campus speakers, when the Presi­dent and the Director of Athletics 
The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1939 
must trj' to serve like the loaves and fishes. PROMOTION 
Enrollment, with the relations be­tween Notre Dame and the 1349 sec­ondary schools that supply our stu­dents, is, to the mild extent we pur­sue it, still the work of the Alumni Association. It is, as we have often pointed out, a iine and a logical fea­ture of our program, and regret comes only from lack of time to han­dle it adequately. 
PLACEMENT 
The new Placement project is al­most self-explanatory. And its im­portance IS so obvious as to require no comment other than the need for time, and financial support of the As­sociation if we are to get to first base. 
SPECIAL PROJECTS 
Under this heading, like "tips and telegrams," comes almost annually some major project that demands all we have, and more. We launched the campaign against Communism, you rememher, and this year we have had no little work as one of the Execu­tive Committee offices of the Rockne Memorial Association. And we do not feel that our work is exactly re­flected in the fact that from January, 1937, to December 1, 1938, only 239 alumni have given $16,155.40. 
SPECIAL EVENTS Our attention is always caught, and our cooperation willingly given, by such special events as the recent Cavalcade of America national radio program presenting the life of Knute 
K. Eockne. We listen \vith a will­ing ear and a ready pen to the pro­posal of the New York Club for a Universal Communion Sunday, as of December 11 last. The SL Joe Val­ley Club's football banquet is an an­nual but welcome drain on time. We have been happy to work with the University in compiling a film of the campus still in production. And we have tried to effect a liaison between the alumni and the Athletic Associa­tion regarding the showing of the al­ways popular films of the games. 
(The policy now is fixed, ?25 and expenses, accompanied by a coach.) 
But 60 little minutes can't decide to become more than an hour. 
PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS 
About the only way we have gone as far as we have, has been our mem­bership in the American Alumni Council and the National Catholic Alumni Federation, from whence we derive jjractical ideas, and fortitude. 
ETC. 
Forums, symposia, the Centennial, a growing need for a permanent fund raising program in which we must be a major factor, intellectual relations with alumni, selecting alumni who might be interested in the Review of Politics, a list of alumni who would 
WITH CAMPUS AUTHORS 
SOCIAL PROBLEMS, by Father RajTHond W. Murray, C.S.C., '18, head of the Department of Sociology, and Frank T. FIjTin, A.M., '31, assistant professor of social work, has won wide acclaim from discrim­inating reviewers. Published late in 1938 by F. S. Crofts & Co., (53.50), the hook is adapted, not only for classroom use and professional refer­ence, but for the wider information of those innumerable Catholics who daily seek "the facts" regarding social questions. 
Typical of the enthusiastic reviews of the book is this one—in part— written by the noted priest-writer, Father John LaParge, S.J., for the December 10 issue of America: 
" . . . , 'Attractive' should be em­phasized, for though their work is professedly a textbook, practically-it is highly readable, written in a flow­ing, lucid style, enriched with refer­ences and quotations almost startling in their varietj' as well as their recent date. The authors have the happy faculty of letting those persons talk who have something to say, and the selection they have made bears wit­ness to much quiet reading and indus­trious gathering, as well as to care in seeking the most competent authorities in each field. Yet their work is far from being a more com­pilation: their views are distinctive and their arguments closely reasoned, as is seen in the masterly handling of the marriage and birth-control prob­lems in relation to economic distress^" 
like a reading list in philosophy, a list of alumni who have influence on the Indiana legislature, a list of alumni who might buy nails, .a list of alumni who prove that Notre Dame is not just a football school .. . as the year of 1938 closes on only 7 months of our fiscal year, may we wish you a very happy 1939—and ask you to send your check for dues if it isn't in, together with any uncut paper dolls you may have, to the Alumni Office, Main Building, Notre Dame, Indiana. 


N. Y. DANCE, FEB. 11 
Followingr the New York Univ­ersity - Notre Dame basketball game in Madison Square Garden, New York, on Saturday, February 11, the Notre Dame Club of New York will sponsor a dance in the Centre Club, 120 Central Park South.' Music will be by Francis "Bugs" Walther, '25, and his orchestra. Admission will be $1 a couple and the club cordially invites all Notre Dame men and their friends to attend. 
Joe E. Brown 
at Banquet 
Football Team Is Honored, December 12 
Notre Dame's great football team of 1938 received deserved recognition of its achievements at the 19th an­nual civic testimonial dinner given by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in the University Din­ing Halls on the night of December 12. 
The spotlight of course rested on Elmer Layden, his assistants, and the great squad that outplayed all pre­season predictions and lost only to the Rose Bowl champions. 
Joe E. Brown, Hollywood celebrity and ardent sports enthusiast, acted as toastmaster. 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., rep­resented the University in the absence of both the President and Vice-Presi­dent, and complimented the coaches and squad on the particularly fine manner in which they had upheld the best traditions of Notre Dame in ath­letics. 
Professor Frank Dickinson of the University of Illinois presented the Four Hoi-semen Rockn e Memorial Trophy to the 1938 team which ranked Number One of the nation's teams in the Dickinson System of rating. 
Visiting coaches who joined in tribute were Bill Kern of Carnegie Tech, Captain William Wood of Army, Jimmy Conzelman of Wash­ington University of St. Louis, and 
• Mai Elward of Purdue. 
Chief of Police Laurence J. Lane represented the city of South Bend. Warren Brown was in one of his two ex-officio spots, this year as clean-up speaker. 
Rev. John Farley, C.S.C., was given a special ticket and awarded a mono­gram sweater. 
The University Band and the Lin­nets Glee Club furnished music for the affair. The Dining Hall, as always, put the capacity crowd of 1,100 in a happy frame of mind. 
President Dillon J. Patterson, gen­eral chairman William E. Voor, pro­gram chairman Francis Jones, ticket chairmen Herb Jones and Al McGann, arrangements chairman Frank Jliles, and publicity chairmen John Gibbons and Joe Petritz, deserve credit, with their committees, for the success of this 19th annual banquet, which has become a Mid-West as well as a Notre Dame athletic institution. 


ROCKNE MEMORIAL CAMPAIGN TO CLOSE FEB. 15 
Alumni Participation Still Par Below Anticipated Numbers and Amount; Com­pletion of Project Jeopardized by Showing; Hoped Districts Will Speed Up Quota Realization. 
Since January 1, 1937, when new solicitation of 
•funds for the memorial to Knute K. Rockne began, until December 1, 1938, only 239 alumni contrib­uted only ^16,155.40. 
Despite general disappointment over thb failure of Notre Dame's own family and Rock's own fellow alumni to participate, the executive committee of the Rockne Memorial Association feels that the cam­paign for the ^200,000 necessary to complete the structure should not continue further. 
The per capita contribution average is high be­cause of the generosity of a number of distingubhed alumni whose gifts have been acknowledged in the ALUMNUS. 
But the object of the memorial was to permit all the friends of Knute Rockne to participate in this tribute to his memory. 
Quotas, divided by districts, were low enough, in the Hght of our numbers, to overcome economic handicaps, it seemed to the committee when the drive was begun. 
Methods of giving, particularly the pledge card permitting periodic payments over any designated time, were keyed to the convenience of the giver whose contribution was a personal sacrifice, which would have enriched the memorial by that very fact. 
The original campaign with ^150,000, and the University's own contribution of ^200,000 absorbed the greater part of the burden. Only a sum was asked, another ^200,000, which would have permitted the completion of the project in a maimer befitting its purpose, — a living memorial to a great Notre Dame man. It was Notre Dame's second request in 96 years. 
Contributions since the December ALUMNUS have increased the alumni showing some, as you can determine from the gifts page in this issue. 
And it b the earnest hope of the committee that district governors and local club officers will stimu­late their programs so that on February 15 a mote representative number from the almost 20,000 Notre Dame men will be listed, and a more satisfying con­tribution toward the quota achieved. 
If you have lost or mis­placed your pledge card, use this one. 
Return it to 
J. ARTHUR HALEY, ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
-. ASSOCIATION. Notre Dame, Ind. 

ROCKNE MEMORIAL ASSOCIATION, Inc. Notre Dame, Indiana 
.., 193­In consideration of subscriptions of others for the same purpose, I hereby subscribe and promise to pay to the EOCENE MEMORIAL ASSOCIATION, 
INC., the sum of.  JDoUars (?  ), payable as follows:  
In CASH ?..  
Monthly Installments of.  §  ..beginning.  , 193....  
Quarterly Installments of.  $  ..beginning.  .  , 193  
Semi-Annual Installments of ?  ..beginning,  , 193  '  

Subscriber's Signature Street Address City State 
Make Checks Payable to Rockne Memorial Association^ Inc. 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS « « 
rpwO NOTRE DAME faculty mem­-'• bers -were honored during the Christmas holidays by being chosen national officers of tivo leading acad­emic associations. The Rev. Raymond 
W. Murray, C.S.C, '18, professor of sociology, was elected first president of the American Catholic Sociological Society at the organization meeting in Chicago. Dr. Francis E. McMahon, professor of philosophy, was chosen vice-president of the American Cath­olic Philosophical Association at the association's convention in Cincinnati. 
A number of other faculty mem­bers spent their holidays attending scientific and academic meetings. No­tre Dame's vice-president, and acting president. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, went to Chicago where he presented a paper on "The Beginning of the Catholic Church in Northern Indiana" before the American Cath­olic Historical Association. 
Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, '24, head of the Department of Physics, and Rev. John A. Molter, C.S.C, '29, professor oi biology, attended the ses­sions of the American .A.ssociation for the Advancement of Science, held in Richmond, Virginia, December 26 to 31. Father Molter participated in the discussions in the embryology sec­tion of the science sessions. 
Dr. Eugen Guth, noted theoretical physicist, was in Washington on De­cember 27 to present a paper "On the Statistical Theory of Rubber Elastic­ity and Related Experiments" at the meeting of the American Physical Society. On December 29 Dr. Guth and S. E. Dart, also of the Physics Department, were in Pittsburgh where they presented a joint paper at the annual meeting of the Society of Rheology. Their paper was titled "The Thermo-Elastic Properties and Equation of State of Rubber." 
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23, and Dr. Francis E. McMahon, both pro­fessors of philosophy, gave a paper they prepared in collaboration on the "First Cause in Contemporary Phil­osophy of Religion" at the annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophical Association in Cincin­nati, December 28 and 29. Other phil­osophical faculty members attending this meeting included Professor Wil­liam F. Roemer, Ph.D., '27, and Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, '11, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Prof. AVillis D. Nutting, of the De­partment of History, went to Chicago on December 27 where he gave a paper on "Rural Christian Society" at the annual meeting of the Socio­logical Association. 
Rev. Stanislaus F. Lisewski, C.S.C, '20, professor of Polish, attended the annual meeting of the Modem Lan­guage Association in New York City, December 27 to 29. 
William M. Schuyler, instructor in French at Notre Dame, received his Ph.D., from the University of Chicago on December 20. Dr. Schuyler did his undergraduate. work at Dartmouth, his graduate work at Chicago and at the Bibliotheque de I'Arsenal in Paris. 
rpHE DEPARTMENT OF Joumal­
-'• ism has published a series of five 
lectures on "The Morality of the 
Newspaper," delivered at Notre Dame 
last Spring by Richard Reid, Georgia 
journalist and Laetare Medalist. 
Mr. Eeid is also the author of the plan whereby Notre Dame students will receive prizes next April for the best letters of the year in newspaper criticism. 
W
IDESPREAD an d favorable at­tention has greeted the first issue of the Review of Politics. Edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, assisted by Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens and Professor Francis J. O'Malley, '32, the Revieio boasts a fine staff of editorial con­sultants in Professor Willis Nutting, Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, '18, Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23, and Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, '11. 
Contributors, indicating the caliber of the new publication, who launched Volume I, were Jacques Maritain, C. 
J. Friedrich, Goetz Briefs, Mortimer Adler and Fritz Morstein Marx. The issue also contains a number of re­views of current books in the field. The interests of the quarterly are pri­marily the philosophical and histor­ical approach to political realities. January, April, July and October are the months of publication. Subscrip­tions are $2.50 the year. 
PUBLICATIONS in medieval stud­-'- ies in the several branches of medieval learning, but especially in the theology and philosophy of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, have progressed in the work going on at Notre Dame. Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, and Mr. James J. Corbett pub-' lished in 1938, "Petri Pictaviensis allegoriae super tabemaculum Moysi." 
This followed publications in 1936 by Father Moore and in 1937 by Arthur Landgraf. Father Moore, Mr. Cor­bett, and several collaborators have four other publications in preparation at the present time. 
A CADEMIC DATA for first semes­.tx ter of 1938-39: The total enroll­ment at Notre Dame in this first sem­ester of 1938-39 is 3,114: 2,981 un­dergraduates, 10 postgraduates, and 123 graduate students; 2,751 on cam­pus, and 363 off campus; 163 Holy Cross students, and 2,951 other stu­dents; 2,925 Catholics, and 189 (6.06 percent) non-Catholics. 
The registration of students by col­leges and Graduate School is: 1,008 in Arts and Letters, 312 in Science, 
448 . in Engineering, 1,110 in Com­merce, 112 in Law, and 133 in the Graduate School. 
New York state, with 498, is rep­resented by the largest number of students. Illinois, with 426, and In­diana, with 423, are next. There are 3,062 students from the United States and 52 from other countries. 
The students enrolled this year are from 1,349 secondary schools: 880 public schools, and 469 private schools. Of the 3,114 students, 1,497 are from public schools, and 1,617 from private schools. 
The following lists, in order, the 22 preparatory schools represented by the largest number of students at the University in this semester: 
Central Senior "HiRh School. South Bend. 
120: Holy Gross Seminary. Notre Dame, 55: Mount Carmel HiBh School. ChicaEO. 50: Cathedral Hii;h School. Indianapolis. 47; Loy-­oJa Academy, Chicaiio, 32: Fenwicfc High School, Oak Park. Illinois, 29: Cathedral Latin Hiffh School, Clex'eland, 27: Hishawaka HiRh School, Mishawaka, Indiana, 23: Cam­pion P«paratory School, Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin, 22: Riley HiBh School, South Bend. 
22: St. Xavier High School, Loois\-ille, 20; University of Detroit Hish School, Detroit, 20: Aquinas Institute, Rochester, New York, 19: Brooklyn Preparatory School, Brooklyn, New York, 19: Leo High School, Chicago, 19: lona School, New RochcUe. New York, 18: Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin. 17: St. Benedict's Preparator>* School. Newark. New Jersey. 16: St. George High School. Evanston, Illinois, 16; Central Catholic High School. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15; Chaminade Academy, Mineola, New York, 15; St. Igna­tius High School, Chicago, 15. 
The faculty of the University at present consists of 270 members: 65 professors, 62 associate professors, 35 assistant professors, 57 instructors, 46 graduate assistants, and 5 special lecturers. Of the 219 members of the faculty with rank of professor, as­sociate professor, assistant professor, or instructor, 71 are priests, 5 are brothers, and 143 are laymen. Of these 219 members, 188 are Catholic, and 31 (16 percent) are non-Catholic. 

February, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Rev. John Farley, C. S. C., Dies Suddenly 
Noire Dame Loses Beloved Traditional Figure; Great Athlete, Devoted Priest, Friend of Thousands of Alumni, and Great Rector, Lost by His Death January 15. 
"Sarin's Hall, and Sarin's men: 

Foiir-toivered fortress of the old. 
Tradition's cradle, in whose hold 
The old is marble, the neiv is clay 

To make into a stronger mold." 
Life in Sorin in 1930-31 marked the return of Rev. John Farley, C.S.C, to the campus of Notre Dame as rector of the hall. It is not strange to older alumni that his peculiar genius and his great personality in­spired the above verse in the Dome of that year. 
From 1907 to 1914, Father Farley had, as rector, built iip the great tra­ditions of Corby Hall. 
And from 1914 until he left Notre Dame in 1920, Father Farley had ruled the "gold coast" of that era, Walsh Hall, keeping alive in one of the early forerunners of the new Notre Dame all that was good and in­teresting from the old. 
It.is no problem to explain the power and the popularity he wielded over the boys in the three halls of Notre Dame where he exerted an authority which, through strict, won him the affectionate titles of "King," and "Pop." 
Father Farley was himself a Notre Dame man in every sense of the word. And he stayed young in heart and young in mind, so that his boys, during the 20 years of his work as rector, found a complete understand­ing'of their life and their problems. And this understanding was interpre­ted with a sternness, with a humor, with a care for the individual, and with a real love for the boys, that made the catalogue term, "paternal discipline," a real and respected insti­tution. 
In his own school days. Father Farley was an outstanding athlete. He was not a physical giant. In a day of such giants, but his spirit and his heart more than compensated. 
Father Farley, then a student, played end and later right halfback on the football teams of 189T, 1898, 1899 and 1900, captaining the latter eleven. He was an outfielder on the baseball tfeams of 1898, 1899, 1900 and 1901, and was reputed to have the strongest throwing arm in college baseball, which was then the leading college sport. A letter in track, in 1897-98, made Father Farley one of the few nine-letter men in Notre Dame athletic history. 
His interest "in athletics remained as keen as the physical vitality he retained until stricken in 1937. He was the particular friend and confi­dant of hundreds of Notre Dame athletes, and attended all N.D. 
THE "KING" 

games, even after illness had over­taken him, and his leg had been amputated. 
While Father Farley's health had never recovered completely from the shock and amputation of his leg, his spirit had restored him to the life of the campus, and he attended many events this winter, including the foot­ball banquet, December 12, where he was awarded a monogram sweater in a special tribute. 
On Sunday, January 15, in the Community Infirmary where he had lived since returning to the campus, he died suddenly. News spread quickly around the campus. The funeral was held on Tuesday, Janu­ary 17, in Sacred Heart Church, filled to overflowing with faculty, students and friends. Monogram men, students and alumni, were honorary pall-bearers. Departing from Com­munity practice. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, delivered a eulogy of Father Farley beautifully attuned to his career. Father Burke pointed out that while Father Farley had never taught a class at Notre Dame or preached a sermon in the Church, he had exerted more influence for good on a greater number of stu­dents than most of his fellow-priests of the Congregation. 
The Religious Bulletin did an ex­cellent job of characterizing the con­tribution of Father Farley to the life of Notre Dame. In part, the Bulle­tin said: 
"Most of you knew Father Farley, at least a little. If yon ever walked past the Sorin porch when he was there, you heard "Hi, boy!" You saw his friendly salute. If you heard him call you by a personal name, it was always that ribbing one, "Hi, Chester!" 
"He had a way with the boys. Not just with you but with thousands over a period of thirty years as pre­fect or rector. He knew your tricks and loved them if they were fair. If they weren't you had to watch out. If you misused the Holy Name or told a bad joke you put yourself on his blacklist. With him all was fair play, none foul. 
"He championed interhall sports, always led winners whether in Corby, Walsh or Sorin. He fired his men with zip. They played rough and tough .. . On the porch they 'mon­keyed' with him. He threw the mail to them after meals. Each letter had its special comment. If you muffed when he threw your card, yoa were a 'softie.' His was the family spirit. That's why they called him 'Pop.' He was rough, at times, to look at, but inside he was always the same, ever kind. If he poked your ribs when he bawled you out, you were privileged. Your lesson was learned doubly quick. He had the discipline, 'fixed' things in his hall his own way. That's why he was 'King.' When you went to the 'board', yon weren't coining back. .. . He never missed a thing in Washington Hall: neither movie nor opera. And you didn't dare booh. If you did, you didn't twice. He was 'Kng.' .. . If students did any marching to town they might have made noise, but they didn't de­stroy. He led the gang. . . More of this noble priest later on. His rough sort of kindness won many a boy to the Lord." 
J. J. O'BRIEN ESTABLISHES FELLOWSHIP AT NOTRE DAME 
Gift designated as the "Miles and John J. O'Brien Fellojf'ship in Metallurgy and Allied Sciences." 

M
ETALLURGICAL research at Notre Dame gains impetus with the announcement of the estab­lishment of a fellowship in metal­lurgy and allied sciences through the generous gift of $15,000 from Mr. J. J, O'Brien, South Bend industrial­ist and ci\-ic leader, president of the South Bend Lathe Co. 
In announcing the new foundation. Rev J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, vice-president and acting president of the University, said that Mr. O'Brien's gift is in the form of a joint benefac­tion which will be designated as "The Miles and John J. O'Brien Fellowship in Metallurgy and Allied Sciences." 
In addition to his own interest of long standing in Notre Dame, Mr. O'Brien's gift commemorates his twin brother, the late Miles O'Brien, char­ter member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, and treas­urer of that group at the time of his death in 1936. The O'Brien brothers have long been civic leaders. They developed the South Bend Lathe Co. into one of the city's outstanding in­dustries. Their close physical resem­blance was shared in a common inter­est in the business they founded, in the city, in which they lived, and in broad ciiltural interests which drew them into the inner cirde of friends of Notre Dame. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JOHN J. O'BBIEN 

The Fellowship provides funds for the pursuit of post-graduate study and research by men'who intend to devote themselves to a life of teach­ing. Scholarship recipients, to be named annually, will be selected on the basis of proven ability, character, and financial need. 
Father O'Donnell's announcement said: "The University acknowledges this gift with pleasure and gratitude. The late Miles O'Brien was a charter member of our Board of Lay Trus­tees and served as treasurer of the Board until his death in 1936. His brother John has been a devoted and loyal friend for many years and has cooperated with the various adminis­trations in the furtherance of plans for the greater Notre Dame. 
"This benefaction w^ill help mate­rially in the promotion of research work now being conducted under the supervision of Dr. E. G. Mahin, head of the Department of Metallurgy." 
Gift Follows Long FriencUhip 
In 1923, the first issue of the ALUMNUS which followed the appoint­ment of the late Miles W. O'Brien to the Board of Lay Trustees then formed, said: "The appointment of Mr. Miles W. O'Brien, president of thfe South Bend Lathe Works of South Bend, Indiana^ was announced by Rev. Matthew Walsh; C.S.C, pres­
February, 1939 
THE LATE MILES W. O'BRIEN 
ident of the University, on September 8th, 1922. Mr. O'Brien is the second South Bend man to be honored by the University. His selection is an ac­knowledgment of the untiring interest he has displayed in the growth of the University. Seeking always to fur­ther Notre Dame as an educational institution, Mr. O'Brien has contrib­uted in spirit, activity and money to­ward its development. His presence on the executive committee of the Endowment campaign in South Bend was more than justified by his activ­ity in helping his city make so sub­stantial an acknowledgment of its loy­alty to Notre Dame. A contributor to civic expansion of South Bend, and a loyal worker in his varied interests, Mr. O'Brien will find in the policies of the board ample opportunity to assist his fellow members in its con­duct." 
What was said of Miles O'Brien then continued to be increasingly true during the 13 years he served sub­sequently. And what was true of Miles O'Brien was equally true of John J. O'Brien. 
In view of this long record of friendship and service, the benefac­tion now given and acknowledged ap­pears more proper as a continuation and a perpetuation of the relations between the O'Brien brothers and the University of Notre Dame. 

BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
« Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
With the basketball season more than one-third completed, this much is definite: 
1.
 The Fighting Irish have won five and they have lost three. 

2.
 Coach George Keogan*s 1938*39 team is one of the cleverest passing teams in Notre Dame history. 

3.
 The Irish lack a standout scorer, even though they have averaged 45% points a game. 

4.
 The defense still needs polishing. 


5.
 From here in, Notre Dame will be one of the most dangerous teams in the country. 


Disposing of point one, we remind you that we covered the victories over Kalamazoo and Bali State and the defeat by Wisconsin in an earlier is­sue. Following these contests, Michi­gan won a 40 to 38 decision at South Bend, the first time in tivo years that Notre Dame had lost two in a row and also the first time during that span that Notre Dame lost a home game. 
Hope that the 1931-32 record—two defeats in the first four starts and then 16 straight victories^—might be duplicated rose in the hearts of Irish supporters when Notre Dame swamped a mild-looking Northwest­ern outfit, 48 to 30, at Notre Dame. This was the second highest point dif­ferential in the series since 1925, Northwestern having taken a 38 to 19 decision in 1936. But the Wildcats changed its spots, if any, New Year's eve and rallied to win, 43 to 39 in what will undoubtedly stand up as one of the season's roughest games. Notre Dame led with five minutes to go, but the stalling game didn't work, and Northwestern capitalized on a temporary Irish let-down and fre­quent ball-thefts to get the nod in a game which made everything else that New Year's eve anti-climactical. 
A Cornell team which revived the next night to hold a brilliant Illinois team to a one-point victory, were the guests of honor at a 48 to 18 shel­lacking, January 2. Eddie Sadowski was out of tlie lineup, and others were crippled, but the regulars were needed for fewer than 15 minutes of the first half, and they weren't needed at all in the second period. 
It's still true what they say about Butler. The Bulldogs tied the score six times in the first half, fell behind 
HELP! HELP! 

One of the features of the Rockne Menzorial Fieldhouse will be the in­clusion of pictures of all Notre Dame athletic squads in football, baseball, track, and basketball from the begin­ning to the present. The pictures are being collected and identified through the Sports Publicity Department. 
A fire in a South Bend studio several years ago destroyed many of these valuable negatives, so we are appealing to alumni to supply any missing prints possible. These will be copied, and the originals will be re­turned to the owners. In sending these pictures, please include identifi­cations wherever possible. They should be mailed to Joseph Petritz, Sports Publicity Director, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The football collection is complete. Following are the pictures needed of other teams: 
BASEBALL 1908, and all teams from 1911 to 1923 inclusive. 
TRACK 1890, 1899, 1900, 1906, 1908 to 1917 inclusive, 1921, 1922, 1924. 
BASKETBALL 1898 to 1914 inclusive, 1917 to 1922 inclusive. 
in the second period, but rallied to tie it at 28-all. Here the Irish manu­factured a five-point margin, which the Indianapolis lads whittled to two points, 37 to 35, before the final gun put a merciful end to Butler's immed­iate hopes. They've invited Coach Keogan to bring his boys to Indian­apolis, March 1. 
We can cover points two and three at the same time. We don't have the exact scoring percentages, but Notre Dame had 90 shots to Michigan's 47 and managed to lose, 40 to 38. Eddie Riska, sophomore ace from Chicago, is the current leader mth 96 points for 8 games. But he had 92 going into the Butler game, and the four he got that night were on free throws. He hasn't broken himself of the habit of driving under the basket for shots —a commendable custom, of course. But he would be a greater threat if he'd utilize his ability to shoot from the floor. Butler had him well-scouted, and he was held \vithout a single field goal. 
Eddie Sadowski is a hot-and-cold shot. If he hits a couple at the start, he's poison the rest of the way. But he's essentially a team man, having been introduced to the Notre Dame style of play during the Johnny Moir regime when the main idea was to feed the ball to the "Flying Scot." 
Paul DuCharme, handy little Chi­cago senior who has worked at for­ward, center, and guard, found the basket early, and he's been finding it reg:ularly since being installed at guard. He's made 68 points, despite the fact that his chief job is to feed the front line and to patrol the back line defensively. 
The less said the better about the scoring of Mark Ertel, junior center; and Capt. Earl Brown, Jr., guard. We have a hunch there will be plenty to say about them later. Ertel turned in his best game for Notre Dame against Butler, snaring eight points for a season's total of 28. He cov­ered his territory with an expert abandon reminiscent of Paul (Giz) Nowak, his immediate predecessor. Brown is trying hard to get the foot­ball kinks out of his well-knit frame, and he turned in his best game of the year, too, against the Butlers, getting seven points. He also authored several of the evening's picture "plays. 
The point is, though, that there isn't a Moir or a Nowak on the squad this year, and that the Irish are not making a large percentage of their shots. But they are taking a lot of shots, thanks to their fancy passing game. 
4.
 A defense which has given up 35 or more points on four occasions, in eight starts, is no Maginpt line. But­ler has not been a high-scoiing imit, yet the Bulldogs collected 35 points. The Bulldogs made as many field goals—(13)—as Notre Dame, but just didn't have as many free throws to shoot. (Lest this look like an apol­ogia for Butler, we hasten to point out that Notre Dame made more field goals than Northwestern and more than Michigan —and lost on free throws). 

5.
 We say Notre Dame will be one of the most dangerous teams in the country the rest of the way. This isn't to say that the Irish will win the rest of their games, for a team with a winning streak is not neces­sarily dangerous. It may slump and beat itself. On the other hand, the 1938-39 Irish may lose a few, but no one can ajford to take them lightly. 


(Continued on Page 130) 

CAMPUS NOTES 
POST-CHRISTMAS FUN 
Anti-climax for all Christmas va­cations are the stories of the dances. This year was no exception; the printable stories are swarming with blackmail possibilities. 
First prize for individual accom­plishment must of necessity be award­ed to the Alumni senior who came back from the dance very, very sleepy. So sleepy was he that he mis­took the headlights of an approach­ing truck for a filling station—and drove in. 
But the clubs themselves reported an enjoyable and/or profitable eve­ning for the most part. George O'Neill's Met club had the biggest aflfair, packing 300 couples into the St. Moritz and turning away almost as many more. 
New Jersey's Larry Doyle had the 

same space trouble. The place just 
wouldn't take more than 250 couples. 
Chicago had the annual reports: "the best"; "the worst"; and "as usual." 
But probably the best story of a club dance comes out of Kansas City. Far from the biggest and probably not the best, it had one tremendous distinction that made it stand out. President Tom Reardon, iigtiring ex­penses to the bone, argued to make 63 cents on the event. Back on the campus he was frothing at the mouth —instead of making the 63 cents he had lost 34. "We forgot," he sput­tered, "about that ..*!* . sales tax!" 
THE SIGNALS WERE CROSSED Alumni hall debaters cracked up against the cold logic of Morrissey in the finals of the interhall debate and literally helped the sophomores carry the Wrangler's trophy over to the paneled lobby. Said George Neumann, Chicago, Alumni's no. 1 man: "Gov­ernment spending has helped busi­ness"; said Charles Colgan, Buenos Aires: "Government spending has not helped business. Alumni's third man, John Wintermeyer, Kitchener, On­tario, just said he didn't know if it had or not. 
But Morrissey knew—and all three of her boys: Jack Walsh, Chicago; Fred HoU, Hinesdale, Pennsylvania; and Tom Grady, Farmer City, Illinois, let Judge AVilliam Coyne in on the secret as often and as rapidly as possible. 
Mr. Coyne's decision marked the third time in three years that the Alumni coach, Robert Weaver, Co­shocton, Ohio, had led his boys all the way up to the top of the mountain and watched them step off. 
 ByVINCENTW.DeCOURSEy.*39 

At the annual Wrangler banquet the members of the all-star interhall debate team were announced. The members are: Walter Johnson, Bronx-ville. New York; George Neumann, Chicago; and Charles Colgan, Buenos Aires, .Argentina. On an alternate squad Lou Eadelet, Green Bay, Wis­consin ; F. G. Barreda, Laredo, Texas, and Thomas Grady, Farmer City, Illi­nois, made the select list. 
MORE MEN FOR MURPHY Grand Knight John Murphy's K. of 
C. council chambers are echoing to the sound of some 58 new voices since the induction held last month in St. Joseph's parish hall in South Bend. 
New members were requested to forget the pain of dues and fees and, to make the sorrow less acute, a pro­gram for the day was arranged that ran the gamut from a special mass in Alumni chapel and a Communion breakfast addressed by Rev. Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C. to a banquet that e\'ening at the Hotel LaSalle. 
George McMorrow, E. Weymouth, Massachusetts, was chairman of the breakfast; James Metzler, Kansas City, Missouri, chairman of rituals; and Irving Klister, Rib Lake, Wiscon­sin, banquet chairman. 
CRADLES AND $25 
S.A.C. prizes to those members of the present sophomore class whose scholastic averages as freshmen made them an object of finger - pointing were awarded shortly before the lamented vacation. 
Most bowing was done in.the pres­ence of Ralph Gerra, Brooklyn, New York, whose 95.66 topped the com­merce college. But it was with only slightly less respect that the A.B.'s 
•hailedAlbert Del Zoppo, Niagara Falls, New York, 95.58. John Champley, Taylorville, Illinois, had 94.69 to lead the engineers and Arthur Starr, Con­cordia, Kansas, made his 94.4 seem astronomical to the rest of the scientists. 
DEBATERS MAKE START 
Starting out in February the Notre Dame debaters look forward to one of the busiest and best seasons in re­cent years. Marquette will be the first outfit faced by the arguing brothers, the event to take place sometime in the first week of February. • 
The "A" squad this year will con­sist of Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa; Al Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin; Frank Parks, Rice Lake, Wisconsin; Milton Williams, Elkhart, Indiana. The "B" team members are: John Wintermeyer, Kitchener, Ontario; Jerry Flynn, Rochester, New York; Tom Grady, Farmer City, -Illinois; and William Meier, Faulkton, South Dakota. 
V 

CHIT-CHAT 
If you thought Orson Welles or Lionel Barrymore was good in his interpretation of Scrooge in Dickon's Christmas Carol you were probably right. But these gentlemen had bet­ter look to their laurels, for there is a younger Scrooge coming. His name is Vernon Witkowski, Detroit, and he made his initial appearance in the role over a local station during the vacation period. Vem is one of the stars of the revamped University Theatre. 
Walter Johnson, Bronxville, New York, was elected president of the Historians, newly formed club for those interested in subjects like his­torical research and investigation of the past. Rev. Thos. McAvoy, C.S.C, University archivist, is the moderator of the group. 
Christmas gift number one to the entire student body came from the University dining halls. Now instead of the proletarian knife, spoon, and fork we eat with two forks, and two spoons! And there are rumors of tablecloths soon to be added! 
Already, in the first issue of the 

new year, the Scholastic is beating 
the drum for the Bengal Bouts, sched­
uled this year for the 17th of March. 
The folding of the South Bend News-Times met with general regret among the student body. Subject for many a bull session, the Neivs-Times was a campus institution, and its pas­sing leaves a void that will be hard to fill—even Costin's column. 
THE KELLYS HAVE IT 
From Adamonis to Zwermann the over 3,000 names in the student di­rectory run the gamut of nationali­ties: English, Irish, Scottish, Ger­man, Italian, Dutch, Swedish, Span­ish, Chinese, French, and Japanese. The grand old name of Kelly appears some 29 times, Sullivans follow with 27, next are the Murphys with 18 and the Brennans trail with a poor 10. Sure and did someone make a crack about our Irish? 
Following the traditions of the men of old, the mighty men of the Mono­gram Club set out to prove that noth­ing daunts them. Headed by Bill Ma-honey, Phoenix, Arizona, chairman of the Monogram Ball, they decided that there would be no better way to show their disdain for convention and safe­ty than to hold the dance on the night of January 20—^which was only the week-end before semester exams! 
February, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

ALUMNI CLUBS 
AKRON 
Hash Calopy, '33, R.F.D. 4, Picaident; John Dormn. '33, C9 E. MiU Sticet. Seczetmrr. 

Net proceeds of the club's Chirstmas dance were to be given over to the Kockne Afemorial F^ind. In charge of the affair was Joe Kraker as chairman, assisted by John Doran, Jr., Al Hilkert. Frank Steel. Steve and Joe Wozntak. Larry Halter and Dr. P. A. "Chick" Doran. 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) William R. Desenberar, '31, Bnclianmn Bank Baildinr** Bndianan, BCdiiran, P resident: Hanrice A. Weber, e3c '25, Peoples State Bank Bnlldtnff, St. Joseph, Michigan, Secns Urr. 
The Notre Dame Club of Berrien County had its meeting at Quin Waters* Farm on December 19 with 35 members and guests present. Some new records in fried chicken eating were laid down by John Medo, who is now (by presidential decree) the club cham­pion, due to Tom Grimes' shameful default. Grimes ate hardly more than two chickens. 
The mcetinK was given in honor of Paul Kell and Earl Brown. Berrien County's con­tribution to the 193S football team. Sheridan (Newshawk) . Cook of Nilos was chairman, tearing himself away from the Fern Dull murder trial long enough to act in this capac­ity, which he did very ably. Incidentally, Maurice Weber's contribution to the evening's festivities was well received. 
Under Chairman Cook's able guidance, some startling facts were brought to light by Mr. Brown about Mr. Kell regarding one cer­tain Hollywood beauty and Kell retaliated. when called upon by Cook for rebuttal, by an­nouncing Earl Brown's engagement for him. 
Professor Bill Downcj\ the proposed Fpea^er of the evening, pulled a fast one on the com­mittee by "skiving" out before he was called on. 
Weber and I were supposed to have ad­journed the meeting to a spot in Niles, but be never got there and I haven't seen him since, though Mrs. Weber says he is still in the land of the living. He's been ill and I'm making this report in his place, at his wife's request. 
T reffret to say that the north end of Berrien County was woefully represented. We hope, however, for a better break later and better ftttendnnce all around when, as and if we put Weber's unique idea for the next party into effect. 
Bill Dcsenberg. 

BUFFALO 
Carlos H. Frank, '33. 232 Barton Street. President; Balpk F. Else. '31, 278 Voorfaees Avenae, SccretarT* 

The lads of the campus club certainly de­serve a big hand for the football dinner that they put over at the Hotel Buffalo on the 22nd. The array of football men they brought back for speakers-evoked a good many favor­able comments, and Mr. Boland's talk espe­cially impressed the sathering. 
At the Christmas dance down at the Stat­ler on the 26th the boys really made a holi­day out of it. The alumni group is indebted to Marty Travers for his efforts in securing one of the Statler parlors as a gathering place for the club. Marty not only had the idea but did the work of securing the room and refreshments and made it possible for the boys to get together and hash over the old days. Marty was at the dance with his charming wife, as were Carlos and Mrs. Frank. Also ran across Frank Cass during the festivities, who said that his brother. Bill, was unable to make the dance because skiing and tripping the light fantastic did not seem to mix. Ralph Else was also there. Ralph, as you know, has been moved to Auburn, New York, but all of us are hoping that he will still be able to commute to the Buffalo Club meetings. While 
on the subject of transfers, we had better warn the boys in Cleveland that Paul Shcedy has been transferred out there by Certainteed. We also hate to lose Paul, but I dare say that chasing the almighty dollar is likely to lead almost anywhere. 
Eddie O'Connor shou'ed up at the football banquet as well as the dance and we also saw Hcnrj- Weiss at the banquet and Henry Bums at the dance. Jack jWcKcndo' was at the dance with his charming miss. Jack's abilities are a welcome addition to the alumni club from the class of '3S. I noticed Joe Batfagtia lending his assistance at the door during the dance. Tony Brick showed up at the alumni gathering during the dance, while Jim Moul­der and John LaDuca %vere also at the dance. It gives me great pleasure to report that Jack Travers is attending meetings regularly again and before he knows it, he is going to find himself put to work. Don Love is in line for congratulations following the announcement of his engagement to Miss Mary C. Person. I understand that Geortcc Doyle is opening his own general insurance office. Good luck to you. George! 
To those who will be able to make it. it may be of interest to know that we are going to try to start a luncheon group. Plans aren't too definite as yet, but we expect the first meeting to take place at the Hotel Touraine at Monday noon. January 9, and we hope to make it a regular event, either weekly or monthly, or as often as the majority of the men can make it. 
Lionel V. O. Smith. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (N«w York) John Land, '34. 4 Hedcewood Arc . Sefcm­ectady. President; Midiacl LedUr. 'S3, 1N7 Ginespic St., ScfaeneeUdr* Secretary. 
The New Year finds our president. Jack Land, recovering from a slight attack of jitters. He stood in the Wolfert's Roost ball­room doorway most of the night of December 27 counting the crowd until he was finally able to announce that the Christmas dance did not lay an epK^ A little more "Full-of-Pep" mash and it might have at that. Gordie Ran­dall's band did a fine job. Dancing traffic reached a new high. When the band pepped it up, a person took his life in his own hands when he stepped on the dance floor. Some one should tie that Bill Casazza. 
Harold Canavan had a parole officer in his party, so It was quite natural that they lead the crowd in a modified lock step that was almost a snake dance. The Indian also came out of a lot of students. 
Bill Murvey was down from Erie, Pennsyl­vania. He was with Johnny Hi^land, Georce Yoric and Andy Pinchncy. 

Larry Palkovic coasted in from Johnsto\vn and Amsterdam, despite a Civic Ball, produced a party headed by Dick .Santoinki and Joe Bitcci. Ed SoUiTan drew such a crowd out of Mechanicville that a group intends to check the records to find if he is related to the Pied Piper. 
Nick Tancredi and Dan Canha were seen consoling each other over—the loss of the Rockne Trophy. Larry O'Neill advised them to get into the public school system. Jim Drislane. Sheih Herrick and Bill Branigan just had a good time. Joe Conlon again proved that he rates tops with the ladies. He re­turned from New York at 8 p.m.. got out the tux. arranged a date, and made the dance by 10 p.m. 
Eddie Eckert was happy when the boys did not shame him at his club. Well, not too much 
anyway. 
The Edwin Kenefakes entertained a small group of 26 couples at a party before the dance. Mike Lcdinc poured. Apparently a good job was done, since all the couples made the dance. 
Oick Walsh escorted 3IIss Touhey, but as charming as she was, we still missed Doe Tonhey. Another one much missed was Tom DoUard. We understand the stork was seen over Troy, so all the boys were afraid to leave town. 
Jack Hnethcr, Doc Kalteax. Dave O'Brien and Johnny Mechan, unknown to the Chamber of Commerce, have started a "let's have the next in Schenectady" campaign. 
Don't forget there is always another dance. Include the 1939 dance in your New Year's resolutions. 
Jack Land presented Christian Brothers Academy of Albany the Rockne Football Tro. phy. At the same time the students met in an oratorical contest. Apparently they have not warned the judges for Jack's youthful appearance and splendid delivery had the judges on the ropes until his wife inadvert­ently remarked to a judge, "Isn't my husband wonderful ?" 
We have from a reliable source that Jack may be out to .<;ee some of the boys. The dance results did not allow him to forget that dues should be collected. 
Gcorffc Comean has married Miss Mae Allen. His Christmas cards were mailed from New York, but he is supposed to be heading for Kansas. Jim Comcaa has also given up the printing business. His plans very decidedly include New York. 
Next event is Universal Notre Dame Night, April IT. at the University Club in Albany. We'll try 'not to let you forget. 
Mike Ledinff* 

CLEVELAND 
Kul B. Hsttentedc '2*. WillUiiuiiii BUc, PraMent: G. Alkert Lmwtra, "SS, 2M7 Wrandattc ATC^ LakcwiMd, SecnUir-

Our Christmas Dinner Dance is over, hut we believe that the comment of one non-alumnus 
•who attended expresses the sentiment of all 192 couples. Our friend said» "I feel tliat any-thins else I do during the holidays vrill be anticlimacttc!" Among the dancers were 90 alumni, 26 students, and the remainder vrere friends ol the aJumni. Tbou^rh it was the purpose of the committee to merely break even financially, a small profit resulted. Amonc those present whom we haven't seen for some time were Art Deibcl, Ray Blatt, Joe Heiman» John leoc (who is now residing in St. Louis and working for National Tube Co.), Johnny Chapla. and Phil Docll. The Butler boys filled t%vo tables. Bob had just given Betty Anzuini her engagement ring; no date has been set. Frank CaII» Billy and Lee Kyan ably represented the maturer group. The dance drew Art Glassow out of his retirement in Elyria. 
In our last attempt we stated that Joe Fitz­gerald was a newcomer to the city. We wish to correct this impression as he is a native Clevelander. Work on the Rockne Memorial Drive is well tinder way and the committee hopes to have a report ready at the time of the John Carroll basketball luncheon. And speaking of the Rockne Drive, we had a very pleasant visit the other evening from Phil Prendergast to whom we are indebted for much of the information which follows. Phil missed his calling when he went into the engraWng business; he*s a bom newshound. He tells us that most of his tidbits are gath­ered at Al Grisanti's Vague Room. Frank AIcGinniss is working for R. L. Polk & Co. in Detroit. Larry Krai, Buckeye Office Sup­ply's one armed bandit, is worrying the pinball machine owners. Frank Gannon is an M.D. with a general practice on the southeast side of town, and Eddy Killccn will still save you half the price of a parking ticket in the Ter­minal Garage. We saw Bob Galloway at the dance. 
Dr. Ebncr is building himself an eminent reputation as a dermatologist and cancer spe­cialist. He was offical medico for the Carroll football team this fall. Jack McGrath Foto­fitted many Christmas suits. We had a short visit with Jim Byrne recently. Jim is now on the financial page of the local "News," and we learn from another source that he is doing a splendid job. Norm McLcod is worldng at the Telephone Company, and according to "Scoop" Prendcrgast has "a flock of kids." Gene Milliff is also a "Hello" man. 
We should have mentioned in connection with our very successful ticket activity last fall that the inspiration for it came from Rev. James J. Moran of Holy Rosary parish, Lowel­ville. Ohio. Father Moran is an old-time expert in that line. Rcnato Broglio is a dentist out Newburg way, and Paul Brady is an attorney in Painesvillc. Dan O'Brien is selling tool steel for Ryerson. His territory includes most of northern Ohio. Bill Barabrick is treating molars on the east side of town. 
Gene Obcrst» large as ever, now has five sons. He was an invaluable a\d to Tom Con­ley at Carroll this year. In addition to his coaching duties Gene is teaching Political Sci­ence. Frank Slough is a patent attorney in the Keith Building, and a good one. Denis O'Neill is production manager at D'Arcy Ad­vertising Agency. AI Sommer, another of our advertising men (McCann, Erickson) has been very ill, but is on his toes again. It was Al who worked out Standard Oil of Ohio's Guar­anteed Starting Plan. Joe Singer is in Chesa­peake & Ohio's advertising department. Otie Winchester has a good position with the Blade 
Printing Compaay in Toledo. 
We saw Gil Coyne in church Christmas Eve, but he got away before we could talk to him. 
Gil is doing very nicely in New York with a brokerage house. Bob Ttsdiler is connected with the electrical end of Otis Steel Compmny. Sarge Ralei^ is working at the Allerton Hotel. Bad Raddmtz starts the 15th of Janu­ary as advertising manager of the landner Co. and, on or about the same date. Bob Mor­risscy takes up his duties as a travelling pro­motion man for one of the rubber companies. We are quite elated about our ovm appoint­ment as an agent for the Aetna Insurance Company, commencing January 16. 
Jerry Reidy is very busy with plans for the Retreat this year, Jem* hopes to reserve four week-ends for our group and if we know him he'll have a ma:dmum crowd at each one. Jack Collins is planning an evening of enter­tainment in conjunction with the CarroU-Notre Dame basketball game which will be played at the Arena and will be the only Cleveland appearance of any Notre Dame ath­letic team this year. If Jack can duplicate the success of last year's skating party which he managed no one will have any complaints. 
Again we repeat: if you have any informa­
tion you want included in this column, send 
it in and we will print it gladly. To all. a 
belated Happy New Year. 
Al Uiwton. 
DETROIT 
Howard F. Beechinor, ex. '06, 1956 Penob­scot Blde.» President; Kfalcolm F. Knaos, '26, 211 Curtis BIdg., SecreUry. 
December 7, 193S. 
Forty-five members of the Notre Dame Club 
of Detroit met at 7:00 p.m., December 5, in 
the Fort Shelby Hotel to participate in the 
program of the evening. 
The meeting was a distinct success. The order followed was first, free liquid refresh­ment, then a buffet supper, a photograph of those attending, "The Story of Knute Rockne" radio program. 
We took care of the business of the evening, the election of the trustees and officers for the year. Here is the list: president, Howard F-Becchinor; vice-president, Frank J. McGinnls; secretarj*, Malcolm F, Knans; treasurer. Dr. Neil J. Whalen; trustees, J. HeaHley "Hunk" Anderson, Gilbert F. Schaefer and David Van Wallace. 
In the business meeting that followed elec­tion of new officers, we discussed arrange­ments for the Christmas Dance. 
Frank McGinnis, of B. L. Polk and Com­pany, has compiled a directory of Notre Dame alumni in this territory and will send it to press December 15. 
January 4, 1939. On Thursday, December 29, 400 alumni, students and friends attended our annual Christmas Dance. It -was held in the Main Ballroom of the Book-Cadillac Hotel, with Del Delbridge and his orchestra furnishing music 
Everyone had an enthusiastically good time and We want to give full credit for excellent arrangements to Dance Chairman E. J. "Joe" Moore. School Chairman George Morris, Presi­dent Howard Beechinor. Don Carrier, Tim Cmice, Gil Schaefer, Frank McGinnis, Walter Hagen, Jr., Tom Hammond and Tom Kava­nagh. Incidentally, we split a nice profit between the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and the Detroit Club of Notre Dame. 
Howard Beediinor is doing a swell job as president and is getting whole-hearted support from his club officers. I shall send you a' long-range program of activities which he has planned. 
Malcolm F. Knaas. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Bofccrt Barke, '36, 1114 Dovlaw Boslenrd. LMOsTiDe, Pr«iident; Paul Blartentedc. *34, 2313 Harwell, LoaisTlUc, Secrctarr-
President Bob Botke sends word that the 
club arranged a smoker for December 28 in 
the Henry Clay Hotel to welcome home the 
local Notre Dame students. 
Planned as one of the season's leading events was the club's dance on January 14, following the University of Kentucky-Notre Dame basketball game in Louisville. 
LOS ANGELES 
C Frederic PIqae, *30, Hammond Lumber Company. Soath Abmeda. Califs President; Charles J. Kennedy, ex. *29. 1503 E. Wind­sor Road. Glendale, Calif., Secretary. 
Our stag-party at the Biltmore Hotel the night before the U.S.C. football game was a great success. There were over 500 tickets sold. Among the entertainers were the fol­lowing famous people: Pat O'Brien, Don Amecho. Bob Taylor. Mickey Rooney, Tommy Kelley, Andy Devine, "Strangler" Lewis, the Ritz brothers, and many more. Coaches and newspaper men who spoke were Elmer Laydcn, Gas Dorats, Slip Madigan, Jim Phclan. Joe Boland. Arch Ward, Sid Ziff. Braven Dyer, and others. Late in the evening, an auto­graphed football was sold, with the proceeds going to the Rockne Memorial fund. The winner of the ball was Fred P. Mueller of Fort Worth, Texas. Mr. Mueller is not a Notre Dame alumnus. After deductions for expense of printing, postage, et cetera, our treasurer, Tom Ashe, estimated that the net proceeds for the Rockne Memorial fund-would be $250. 
It is useless to make any comments on the game at this late date. The score does not truthfully indicate what a close battle it was. Everyone here thought that Elmer had a won­derful team and that they played a swell game, even though they lost. 
We lost our oldest and most loyal club mem­
ber on December 13, Thomas J. McKeon, '98. 
Tom had been ill for several months, and we 
believe that it was only his undying love for 
Notre Dame and football that kept him with 
us until the end of the season. Your prayers 
will be appreciated. 
Charles J. Kennedy. 
MEMPHIS 
Galrin Hudson, '15, Parlcriew Hotel. Presi­dent; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27. Columbian Mu­tnal Tower, Secretary. 
We had a meeting on December 5 in connec­tion with the Rockne Memorial Fund drive at the University Club. We began the meet­ing with a nice steak dinner, and after the meeting was adjourned, Galvin Hudson, who presided, and who is president of our club, appointed P. A. McPhiUips chairman of the drive to raise our quota. Mr. McPhilHps in turn appointed the following members of our club as a committee to work with him: T. F. Dobogne, Jerry Foley, Donnell McCormack. Staria Canale. John Montedonico and Ernie Gargaro. 
We were honored by the presence of mem­bers of the Big Ten Club of Memphis. By the way, the Big Ten is a very potent organiza­tion here in Memphis, and they have been uniformly courteous and kind to tts in all affairs. %Vhenever they have a party, they invite our club en masse. They started our campaign drive with a donation of SIO.OO. We thought this was very splendid evidence of a spirit of good-will. 
After a few informal speeches, were were pleased to have a showing of some of the more recent Notre Dame football games. 
- Bailey Wabb. 

NEW JERSEY 
Dr. Pa«] A. O'Connor, "SI. NewaA City Hovpital. Newark* Preddent; John R. BUn­da, *31. 172 Paiaalc St.» Pauale, Secretary. 

The exposition referred to in previous re­ports was fiiven by Father Wqensefaell at the Academy of Medicine in Kewark on November 30, The turn-out was frratifyinff in that over 400 people were in attendance. All the enthu­siasm previously shown by Jerry Froclich and Kay GciKer with regard to this presentation was truly genuine and deserving-, and the thanks of the club have gone out to the mem­bers of the committee. Dan O'Neill, Sol Bon­tempo, Bill Gombcr, Tom FarreD, Ray Geiger, Jack White, Jerry Froelich, Dan Sullivan. Har^'ey Rockwell and Jack Adams, who han­dled the affair so splendidly. The Notre Dame alumni have been highly commended for their efforts in presnting a matter of such vital interest to the Catholics of New Jersey. With the continued cooperation of the members and their friends, further matters of special inter­est to the Catholics of New Jersey will be presented. 
It was announced that the following were to take part in hte Rocknc Memorial Fund program for the purpose of seeing that the obligation of the Notre Dame alumni is ful­filled. On the committee are Jack Adams, Jack Winberry, Ray Geiger, John Neobaucr, Bob Ryan, Pete Quinn and Bill Carter to work under the chairmanship of Sol Bontcmpo. With this array of workers it is impossible that the club will not make a good showing. 
The next important item was the very gala and festive occasion, the New Year's Eve Ball, which, under the chairmanship of Phil Heinle, Ray Geiger, Bob Tuson and Larry Doyle. proved to be by far the most successful affair ever presented by the Notre Dame alumni of New Jersey. This occasion represented a joint venture of the Notre Dame alumni and campus clubs and the cooperation was whole­hearted. It unquestionably will be the most important social function of the year. 
Although the attendance at meetings has increased remarkably since the advent of door prizes and refreshments, still there are many Notre Dame alumnt who, although able to attend, think too lightly of their obligation to be present. It is urgently requested that these members who have stayed away from meetings, although able to attend, be present to give their assistance in any undertaking of the club, so that whatever is done by the club will have the sanction of the majority of the alumni of New Jersey and will elicit less criticism and more praise. 
John R. Blanda. 

NEW ORLEANS 
Charles de la Vergne, '25, 1015 Maritime 
Bldg.. President; Austin Boyle. *31, 621 
Bourbon St.. Secretary* 

At a reorganization meeting on Monday, December 11 at a local restaurant, the group formerly known as the Notre Dame Club of Louisiana - Mississippi voted to become the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans. The change was made because many of the increasing number of alumni in Louisiana and Mississippi were too far distant to attend conveniently any of our meetings and, as you know, the group in Shreveport and vicinity have been organized into a northern Louisiana club for some time. 
Our dinner meeting was one of the best attended we ever have had. About 30 mem­bers, including the Rev. James Qainlan. CS.d . assistant pastor at Sacred Heart Church here, elected officers. Patrick E. Bnrke. '88, grand 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
old man of the club for many years, was made honorary president. Chosen president was Charles E. de la Vergne, '25; vice-president, Joseph Vat Le Blanc, *13; secretary, Austin Boyle. *31. and treasurer, A. L. Vitter, Jr., '35. 
We listened to the "Cavalcade of America" broadcast of the life of Rockne, and then Val Le Blanc gave some interesting sidelights on Rock's student days at Notre Dame. Mr. Le Blanc played footbal l with Rockne, and watched the famed Dorais-to-Rockne passing combination develop. He is an engineer with the city of New Orleans now. 
Further business of the meeting was the election to honorary membership in the club, by acclamation, of A. L. Vitter, Sr.. father of our treasurer, and Edward Schwartz, father of Marchy Schwartz. 
Marchy and Tom Gorman came hen? with their strong Creighton team in November to defeat the Loyola of the South crew of Larry "Moon" Mullins. '31, and Dick Pfcfferle. '35. Larry is the father of iive children, whose 2-2-1 offense at the dinner table is wonderful to see. Another shining light of the class of '31 to grace the Loyola faculty this year is Emil Telfel, the sage of Newark. He is pro­fessor of English and director of the journal­ism department. 
The three de la Vergnes are doing niceb'. Charles in the practice of law, Jules. 'S3, with a prominent architectural firm, and Pierre, '3S, in the 'Hilane university law school. Cyp Sporl, '28, and his brother Harold, known better as "Minnie," '34. are carrj-ing on their late father's business. Cyp found time to see three of the Notre Dame football games last fall. Their cousin, Edward, '34, is back in town after several years in the tropics. 
Others practicing law are E. Bolan Burke. *28, son of our honorary president, William Behan Drcux and Joseph M. Blacfae. Jr.. '24, the latter at Hammond. Louisiana. Other alumni in nearby Hammond are William E. "Pinky" Cassidy, '30, who once held down a wing of Walsh Hall with Johnny Lair. Jack Chevigny and Gil Kirwan. and the Nalty boys, John. Leonard and Raymond. 
Jim Favrct. '30, and his brother Lionel are with their father in the general contracting business. I'm here with the Associated Press. and hope to pick up enough items after office hours to send in further monthly notes on the rest of the members and any visiting alumni. The recent national Eucharistic Congress drew a large number of the latter, among them the Rev. Patrick Haggcrty, C.S.C., former Walsh and Morrissey rector and now president of St. Edward's University at Austin, Texas. 
About a dozen of us participated in Univer­sal Notre Dame Communion on December 11 at Sacred Heart Church as our first group activ­ity since reorganization of the club. 
Austin Boyle. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel J. O'Nell. '25, 101 Cooper 8L. Pnai­dent; Robert A. Hamilton. IS, 63 Wall St.. Secretary. 

Inaugurating a beautiful custom, which in ensuing years is expected to interest actively every Notre Dame alumni club in the coun-­try, the Notre Dame Club of New York on Sunday, December 11 held its first annual Communion Breakfast in honor of the Feast of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin. 
Clubs in cities all over the countiy were invited to hold similar services and an encour­ai^ng start was made toward the ultimate 
goal when 12 clubs accepted. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of New York — many of them bringing their wives and sweethearts — first attended Mass and re­ceived Communion in Our I>ady Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathedral at 8:45 A. M. The Right Rev. Monsignor Lavelte paid the club a great honor by celebrating the Mass. In fact, it was later learned he insisted upon celebrating the Mass for us. And then to make it a truly gala day. Monsignor Lavelle refused to let the ' sexton take up a collection. So once again Notre Dame made history — this time in the Cathedral, for there is no record of anything like that ever happening before. Bat we're in­clined to think Monsignor Lavelle was meetine a grand gesture on our part with one of bis own. 
From the cathedral everyone rushed to the Hendrik Hudson Ballroom of the Roosevelt Hotel where the breakfast was held, in order to be in time to hear Father ©"Hara broadcast a special message from the Pan American Congress at Lima, Peru, over a nationwide chain of 90 stations of the Columbia Broad­casting system. Father O'Hara. who was largely responsible for the growth of I^l y Communion at Notre Dame, expressed bis ap­preciation of what the club was doing, remarking that it was entirely fitting that those who have graduated from Our Lady's School should make some special observance of her glorious Feast Day. 
Immediately after Father O'Hara'a broad­cast, the 200-odd alumni who filled the room were treated to a stirring, but all too short. message from Monsignor FHilton Sheen. Mon­signor Sheen said that there is no more fitting way of honoring the Blessed Virgin and Her Immaculate Conception than by gathering at the Communion Rail. 
General Will Hays was the next speaker to be introduced by Frank C Walker, who acted as toastmaster. Mr. Hays developed the theme of the crying need for free religious expression throughout the world, and empha­sized that the one factor which controls daily lives — the core of our entire being and exist­ence — is that we recognize God. 
William F. Blakely, candidate for governor of New York state two years ago and recently chosen executive president of Westchester County, was the final speaker on the program. Mr. Blakely centered his talk on the various "isms" currently popular in other countries and expressed his admiration for the firm stand of the Catholic Church against Com­munism. 
President Dan O'Neil presided at the break­

fast. The first annual Communion Breakfast 
of the Notre Dame Club of New York was a 
huge success. Every alumnus who attended ­
must feel a little glow of pride now, and it is 
hoped that when Universal Notre Dame Sun­
day arrives the New York contingent will 
attend in full strength and will be joined by 
every club in the U. S. A. 
Clab Scribe. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Jahn HcKkraan. *34, 1231 Ia4astrial Trast BMr<^ Proridence, R. L. Preaident; Charles Crimea. '2t, 47 Ktban St^ Fnnidence, IL h, Secrctuy. 

Three undergraduates, one instructor and four alumnt were the slim Notre Dame con­tribution to the annual Notre Dame-of-Rhode­Island-Christmas dinner dance held this year at the Lippitt Country Club. The other IGO-odd participants and partakers were synthetic alumni and members of the Notre Dame Guild 
122 The Notre Dame Alumnus February, 1939 
which sponsored the affair, financially, numer­ically, and socially close to the best ever held in these parts. Three days after the dance Lippitt Country Club burned to the ground. 
Westerners coming to New England seem reluctant to believe that Kotre Dame can be known in these parts. For that reason, per­haps, John Aliller, '17, now an executive with an Akron. Ohio, tire outfit in its recently opened Fall River, Massachusetts, plant lias not yet made his way to a Rhode Island Club meeting. Our Rockne Memorial activities will shortly begin and. — we are hoping. 
Under Alumni auspices about 100 friends of Johnny Mclntyrc feted him at the Narra­gansett Hotel, Providence, during the Christ­mas vacation. Leo K. McAIoon was toast­master. John J. 3fcLaugh!in and your corre­spondent, co-chairmen, and John S. McKieman presented Johnny with a pen and pencil set. Paying tribute to Rhode Island's first contri­bution to Notre Dame football were leading sportsmen, sports writers. Coach Jack Cronin of LaSalle Academy, the Rev. 'WilHam Delaney. 
C.Y.O. director in Rhode Island, and the Rev. Charles Mulvey, O.P.. who is a Mclntyre rela­tive and whose Kotre Dame acquaintances, particularly among the Gichcnlaubs. Cannons. Hamiltons. and others, of Columbus, Ohio, are legion. 
**Goalie Brimsok of the Boston Bruins, big league hockey's sensation oi the year, is one o£ Jean Dubuc's bright young grads from the Providence team in the Inter-Am. Dubuc is an old Kotre Dame baseball and basket­ball star and is still connected, in a scoutins capacity, with the Detroit American League Baseball Club. He has managed. — and most successfully, -— the Rhode Island Reds ever since they entered professional hockey- He will be ha\*ing a Kotre Dame night at one of the hockey games in Februari'. 
Tom Collins. *28, of Fall River, enjoys the best record of any local grad in the matter of attendance. Despite the fact that he has to drive from 20 to 30 miles each way he has missed only two business meetings in the club's existence. His record at the club's social affairs is perfect to date. His sister Margaret is similarly active in the Guild. 
Charlie Grimes. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
John Dorschel. '31. IH Curlew St , Presi­
dent; John Norton. *36. 80 Beckwitfa Terrace, 
Secretary* 
The big event this month was our annual Christmas Formal held at the Rochester Club on December 27. Our thanks to Chairman Bill Merriman, John Dorschel. John Giloolly. Mart5' Bayer, and Bemic Hennessy who han­dled all the arrangements and did a fine job of makinc the dance a huge success both socially and financially. We are also grateful to the campus club who lent us their support and helped put the dance over. I noticed Leo Hof­schneider, Frank MaxT^ell. and Harney Rock­well who were home for the holidays. 
Johnny Moir and Paul Kowak are playing here January G with the Firestone team in a basketball pamc with the Kodak Park Club. There Avill be a special section for the alumni and quite a few members are e,vpected to turn out to cheer the boys on. 
A bowling party is planned for club mem­bers some time this month. Those who at­tended the party last year had a great time and we are counting on them again this year. Perhaps they will bring" some of the staj'-at­homes whom we haven't seen for quite awhile. 
John Norton. 
SCRANTON 
BoWrt A. Goldca, *32, 216 Calfax Avt.. Prendent; Tfaomas F. Lealu, *»• 41S Chamber of Commerce BIdr.. Secxetaiy-
At a recent meeting of our club. Bill Grea\7. as chairman of our Scholarship Fund Committee, reported that he had received a donation of $50 for the fund from Tom Tay­lor, 537 Linden St., Scranton. As you un­doubtedly know. Mr. Taylor is a local sporting goods dealer who annually handles the sales of several hundred tickets to the Army-Notre Dame football game and promotes en exfrur­sion between Scranton and New York City over the Delaware Lackawanna £ Western Railroad, securing the benefit of reduced rail­road rates on special trains, for indii'iduals in this section who attend the game. This year his excursion comprised seven special trains. 
Mr. Taylor's donation to the scholarship fund came as a complete surprise. X>ast sum­mer he indicated that he would be willing to help our fund if we aided him in the distribu­tion of A larger number of tickets to the game, but we found that we were unable to do anything about the matter. Therefore, when his donation was reported, the club as a whole felt that Mr. Taylor certainly evidenced more than a fine spirit and it was voted that notice regarding his donation should be placed on record in your office. 
The club also voted to match Mr. Taylor's donation to the scholarship fund, by means of special contributions to be paid by the members. Therefore, we sincerely hope that, due largely to Mr. Taylor's kindness, our club will have a scholarship fund which can be used for the benefit of some deserving student who will attend the University during the next scholastic year. 
Tom Leahy. 
ST. LOUIS 
John J. Hoban. »36. 632 Vosd Place, East St. Lonis. m.. President; Paal Bmaby* ex. *34. 915 Pierce Bldf., Secretur* 
The Kotre Dame Club of St. Louis, in keep­ing with the true spirit of the University, held a Mass and Communion at' the St. Francis Xavier Church. The celebrant of the Mass was Rev. William Ryan, SJ^.. who is spiritual di­rector of St. Louis University. The Mass was held for the club in a private chapel and fol­lowing the Mass and Communion a breakfast was ser\-ed at the Hotel Melbourne. The prin­cipal speakers at this breakfast were Father Ryan, and Joseph B. McGlynn of East St. Louis, who is vice-president of the national Alumni Association. 
There were 40 of the members present at Mass and a 100 i>er cent attendance at Com­munion. 
Paul Bmmby. 
TRI-CITIES (lUinois-Iowji) 
Hayes Mnrpby, '28, Bode Island Mannfac­tnrers Bld^.. Rock Island. IIL, Prendent; Joseph E. Whalen, *29. Hotel Fort Ana-strong. Bock Island, IIL. Secntary. 
Secretary Joe Whalen reports that the club was represented by a large group at the civic reception and luncheon on December 29, in the Fort Armstrong Hotel. Rock Island, which honored three Rock Island boys who had starred in college football in 1938. One of the three was Willard Hofer. Notre Dame quarter­back, whose play featured the Northwestern game. Others were James Hodges. Uni%-ersity of Illinois guard, and Charles Long, Army half­back. Chief stKaker at the affair was Warren. Giles, general manager of the Cincinnati Reds, a former resident of Moline. The Junior Chamber of Commerce of Rock Island spon­sored the testimonial. 
WASHINGTON, D. C 
Charles L. Farrif. '33. 223 N. Glebe Road. Ailinrton. Va., President; Samoe] E. Kicft­aids, ex. '30. 3502 T Street. N.W.. Secretary. 
The Rockne Memorial Committee met on November 30 and discussed the matter of raising funds for the proposed Rockne Me­morial. 
A meeting was held on December 3 on the occasion of the Notre Dame-Southern Califor­nia football £:ame to listen to the radio broad­cast of the game. Despite the inclement weather, a Kood crowd was on hand. AmonfT those present were Ambrose O'Connell, na­tional president of the Alumni Association, James Hayes, Charles Farrts. Murray Russell. Ed Kilmnrry* Carl Christianson. Larry 3taher, William Buckley, John Kenkel. Bob Boykin. Joe and Charles Borda, and others. After the game. Jack Kenkel brought back old mem­ories with his piano rendition of all the Kotre Dame songs. Despite the result of the ganie. we are still behind Layden and the team 100 per cent. 
Bob Knox. '29. of Si»ringfield. Illinois, was here in Washington for the week-end of De­cember 3, We understand from Bcmie Losh­boQch that Bob is making quite a success in his profession as an architect. 
Joe Apodaca, '29, is still connected with the Department of Agriculture. Hugh E. Wall. Jr., '36. is engaged in the general practice of law. with offices in the Earle Building. Bob Caranaagh. *36, went deer hunting with a party of friends near Oil City. Pennsylvania, on November 26 — and believe it or not. he brought back A deer. Steve Sfiller. 'S€, Is connected in a legal capacity with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpomtlon. 
Joe Borda. ex. '33, who was formerly con­nected with the Government, has his "shingle out" now and is one of our up and coming barristers. Andrew C. Auth, '34, is a recent addition to the ranks of the benedicts, having taken unto himself a bride last June. Paul Bcretz. '27, is all smiles — the reason, he's a brand new father. "Bo" Richards, ex. T.O, is' also a happy father of a prospective Notre Darner — age 7 weeks — weight II pounds, 3 ounces "soak and wet." 
Charles Farris, our new president, has for­mulated plans for extensive club activities this year, and is carrj-ing on the fine work where Bob CaTanaugh, '.16. left off. 
Samuel E. Richards. 
1937 Legal Director/ 
(Additions and Changes) 
ILLINOIS 
Chicago 
BREEN. John M.. ex. "27 Kemper Insurance Company Mutual Insurance Building 
JoUel 
KELLY. Francis P.. A.B., 37. LL.B..'38 Cowing" & Cowing 418 Chalstrom Building 
INDIANA 
Indianapolis 
FISHER, Patrick J., A.B.,36. LL.B.,37 1200 Fletcher Trust Building 

February, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumttus 123 
« a
THE ALUMNI 
Engogemenfs 
Announcement has been made of the follow­ing engagements: 
Miss Martha Eileen Page and Francis J. Wilson. '28, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Helen Jane Trowbridge and Gconce M. Kins* ex. *38. of South Bend. 
Morrioges 
Miss Kathryn Kochcrs and William E. Mooney. '32, were married, January 3, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Donna Belle McCormick and Donald A. Hennessy, '37, were married, December 10, in South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Louise Leddy and Eugene T. Connelly, '32, were married, January 7, in Elmhurst, Lonff Island. New York. Among the Ushers were John V, Leddy, '29, Lester Grady, '27, Albert L. Doyle, '27, and Florence J. McCarthy, '32. 
Miss Helen Sophia Fetro and Martin Lentsch. ex. '39, were married, January 2. in South Bend. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Paul Cullcn. '22, announce the birth of a daughter. Mary Alice, on Octo­ber 24, in Santa Monica, California. 
. A daughter. Mary Judith, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Robrecht, '24, on October 7, in New York Citj'. 
Mr. and Mrs. Georj^e Ludwiff, *2a, announce the birth of a daughter, Marybeth. on Decem­ber 8, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
A son, Edward M.. HI, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Prendergast. Jr., '2G, on November 19, in St. Louis. 
Mr. and Mrs. H. Watts Either, ex. '27. an­nounce the birth of a son, John Paul, on December 13, in St. George, Staten Island, New York. 
A son, Edward Jr.. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward P. McKcown. '28. on December 15, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Johnson. '29. an­nounce the birth of a son, on October 31, in Detroit. 
Mr. and Mrs, Arthur W. Fleminit, '29. an­nounce the birth of a son, Arthur William, Jr., on November 18, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Iteisert, Jr., ex. '30, announce the birth of a son, John, on . September 21, in Louis\-i]Ie. 
A daughter. Mary Alice, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Arthur J. Kane. '31, on November 16, in Shreveport, Louisiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Romeo P. Allard. '31, an­nounce the birth of a son. Bernard Paul, on December 12. in Los Angeles. 
A daughter, Ellen Barbara, was horn to Mr. and Mrs. George H. Rohrs. '33, on July 4, in New York City-
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur T. Ruppe, '33, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Mary Anne, on November 9. • 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Bott, '36, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Anthony. Jr., on December 13, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
A son. John Francis, was born to Mr. and Mrs. E. Frederick Wolter, '37, on December 20. in Huntington, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Manoszak. ex. '38. announce the birth of a son, on January* 2. in South Bend. 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
Contributions by class from January I, 1937, to Dec. I, 1938 

No. of Class Contributors Before 1880 0 
1880-85  1  
1886  0  
1887-88  3  
1889  1  
1890-93  3  
1894  :  0  
1895  2  
1896  .  0  
1897  2  
1898  1  
1899  0  
1900-01  0  
1902  3  
1903  0  
1904  4  
1905  1  
1906  7  
1907  0  
1908  3  
1909 ...  1  
1910  4  
1911  2  
1912  2  
1913  1  
1914  S  
1915  5  
1916  4  
1917  6  
1918  7  
1919  3  
1920  5  
1921  9  
1922  5  
1923  8  
1924  9  
1925  11  
1926  9  
1927  12  
1928  ..  16  
1929  9  
1930  9  
1931  iO  
1932  9  
1933  7  
1934  „...  10  
1935  7  
1936  6  
1937  10  
1938  6  

Deaths 

John J. Spalding 
Di 
les 
Distinguished Georgian Was Laetare Medalist 

John J. Spalding, 82. distinguished Atlanta attorney, who. in 1928, became the 4Sth Lae­tare Medalist in recognition of his Catholic achievements, died December 8 in Miami, Florida. Mr. Spalding had gone to Miami for the winter months. Death came unexpectedly, the result of a heart condition. 
Mr. Spalding was known throughout the South. Sometimes as Captain Jack, some­times as Judge, sometimes as Colonel, as one of the Atlanta papers summed up his career, "Through the years.he builded himself, his church and his city." 
Captain Spalding was established as one of the South's foremost lawyers. And in this connection he became as famous as a business developer as he did in his profession. He in­stilled confidence in the South's future in his clients and in his associates. 
Catholic. Protestant and Jew gathered for Captain Spalding's funeral. By special dis­pensation of Most Rev. Gerald O'Hara. D.D., Bishop of Savannah, the funeral was the first service, of any kind, held in the beautiful new Church of Christ the King on Peachtree Road, an edifice which Captain Spalding helped build. Bishop O'Hara conducted the service. 
Rev. J. Hugh ODonnell. C.S.C.. acting pres­ident of Notre Dame, represented the Univer­sity. Richard Reid, another Laetare Medalist, and a fellow Knight of St. Gregory, stood in uniform at the altar. 
The new church, standing on the former site of the headquarters of the Ku KIux Klan. was eloquent tribute to the part which Captain Spalding had played in the advancement of tolerance and interests of the Church in Georgia. 
Mr. Spalding is survived by two sons, Hughes and John J., Jr., a daughter. Mrs. William H. Shroder. 11 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. 
Word, without detail, was recei^-ed in Decem­ber of the death of Harold Hurcs, B.S. *74. 
M.A. '95. Mr. Hayes had been retired for some years. 
Thomas J. McKeon. LL.B. '90. died Decem­ber 14 in I,os Angeles, where he had gone from Duluth, his former hom^in 1930. Jndge HcKeon was 71 and- had practiced law in Duluth for 38 years. He went to the Univer­sity of Michigan after receiving his degree at Notre Dame, and received his LLJf. there in 1891. He attended Harvard l4iw School in 1891-2. The Judge played right end on the 
N.D. varsity and stroked the six-oared varsity crew. He played right end for Michigan in 1890-91. Judee McKeon was a member of the board of directors of the Alumni Association. He w-as the first president of the Catholic Club of Buluth. in 1893. Notre Dame loses a loyal alumnus and the country an excellent citizen. 
John M. Thieic, commercial graduate of '95, died November 11, in Whiting, Indiana. Mr. Thiele, an official of the National Bank of WTiiting for many years, was a brother of Msgr. Charles H, Thlele, '83, Fort Wayne, Indiana. 

News was received in St. Paul, Minn., on December 2. of the sudden death of T, W. Sttdheimer, 0.5. '05, in San Diego, California, where Mr. Sudheimer had gone to recuperate from an illness. Mr. Sudheimer was head of 
T. W. Sudheimer, Inc. a real estate firm he organized 21 years ago. Mr. Sudheimer was prominent in church and Jtlasoaic activities as well as professionally. Mrs. Sudheimer, two brolhers, and two sisters sun-ive him. 
J. Walter BIcInemy, LL.B. '06, referee of the juvenile court of St. Joseph County, died suddenly on January 9 in South Bend, after a tonsillectomy. He was a member of the family so long identified with Notre Dame and civic affairs. A member of the law firm of Mclnemy & Huguenard (Aaron, '22). Walter was appointed to the juvenile post in 1931 and had done outstanding work with that difficult post. Walter was 5G years old, and had been a resident of South Bend since 1689. Surviving him are Mrs. Mclnemy, three daughters, a son Matthew, who was graduated in 1937 from Notre Dame, and a brother, John. Civic, University and professional as­sociates were represented at the funeral, which was held from St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, January 11. 
Otto S. Hanon, Ph.G. '10, Ph.C. 'll, Gary, Indiana, died October 24, 1938, after a short illness. Among those who sur\'ive him are his widow, Mrs. Fanny Hanon, and a son. Ed­ward, who is at St. Joseph's college, CoIIege­ville, Indiana, as a freshman this year. 
Julius Nicdbalskt, o.s. '14, well known South Bend druggist, and prominent Polish singer, died January 9, suddenly, from an apoplectic stroke. Mr. Niedbalski was associated for a number of years with L. A. Kolupa. '03, in the drug business, and more recently had worked with "William G. Hintz. '12. He was popular at banquets and on the radio as solo­ist in the field of Polish music 
John P. Doyle, LL.B. *17, died at his home, 4525 E. 19th Avenue, Denver, Colorado, after a lingering illness, on October 22, 1938. He Was married and is sur\'ived by his wife and 
. a daughter. John was originally from Sparta, Wisconsin, where a brother, Joseph L. Doyle. 
•24-'25. survives him. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere s>-mpathy to Edward A., '26, and George D. Byrne, '28, upon the death of their father; Henry Don­
. nel/r, '34. upon the death of his father; Glenn C«rberry, '24, upon the death of his mother; Kobert Roach, '31, upon the death of his father; George Doherty, '27, upon the death of his mother; Clarence W. Bader, '19, upon the death of his father; John Lynch^ Jr., "35, upon the death of bis mother; Joseph Cannon, '27, upon the death of his father; Fred Clements, '26, upon the death of his father: Waiiam Woemer, '38, upon the death of his mother; Thomas J. Aheam. '24, upon the death of his mother. 
Personals 
Bt>fnn> 188 0 SccnUir: Hon. T. F. GiO­
i»erore leou,^^^ Htd*««. HM. 
1880.188S SetntMrr: Pnf. Bskeit K. 
M.aav ^oo. , Anderwm. CirdCTJIIe. Ohia. 
188 6 Secretmir: Midi»ri O. Banu, iU S. Second St, HunOton, OUo.' 
1887 - 1888 S««««T; J. L. Heb.e>tt>. 
CannetSTille, iBaiaiim. 
188 9 SccreUiT: P- E. Bnrice. 311 Camp New OricJins. Lonirfana, 
1890-189 3 Seeretmty: Lonii P. Omte. 7 Univ. Arc, Miwitapolli, Wniu 
189 4 Sc^ntarr: Hofii A. ODonndl, 1 W. 67th St. New York City. 
189 5 SecreUrr: EoiUce CnlUnan, Sr., 14«1 MUIi Tower, San FrandKo, Calif. 
189 6 Secretary: WiUiam P. Bams. 3S7 WiUard Ave. BBdiffan Clly, Indiana. 
189 7 Secretarr: BeT. J. A. HacNamara, St. Joi. Sanitarium, Ht, Clemeiu. "Midi. 189 8 S«c'«^i7: William C. Keckr. 9A ft Sycamore Sta. Cindnnati, OUo. 
189 9 Secretary: Dr. Joieph F. Dnane. 418 Jefferson Bird.. Peoria, lU. 

James F. Murphy. LL.B.. Rock Island, Illinois, was elected president of the fiock Island county bar association at .the January meeting. He was elevated from the vice-presidency. Mr. Murphy is master-in-chancery of the Rock Is-Innd county circuit court. 
1900-190 1 Secretatr: Joseph J. SaUiTan. 1300. 139 N. ClaA St.. Od­cago. IlL 

190 2 SecreUrr: C. C Mitdiell. 110 Soath Dearborn SL. Box 3, CUcafO, IIL 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Barke. 9M Trust Co. Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
190 4 Secretarr: Robert E. Proctor, Honser Bide., Elkhart, Indiana. 
190 5 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSafle St , Chicago, IIL Hon. SCchael Fansler was re-elected to the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana. Judge Fansler is one of the active members of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis. A.recent exchange of correspondence between the Judge and the Alumni Office concerned the where­abouts of Fd Opfergelt, who used to pitch some able baseball at Notre Dame. The Office has lost his address, and would appreciate the information. 
Rev. Henrj* Kemper, who has the famous Notre Dame Institute at'Kerrville, Texas, cele­brated the 20th anniversary of his ordination on Dec. 8. The ALUMNUS joins many friends in extending its congratulations and best wishes to this loyal N.D. man in his great fight in the Southwest 
190 6 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldr-. Spokane Wa* . 
190 7 Secretary: Rer. Thomas E. BoAe. aS.a. Notre J>Mme» Ind. 
190 8 Secretary: Frank X. Call, Baliky *«#ww BoUdinz, Clereland, OUou 
190 9 Secretary: E. P. Cleary, Notra Daaa. Indiana. 
191 0 Sccretaiy: BCT. BC L . Horlartr, IHO Endid AT C Cleveland. OUou ITie old-timers reunion put so mudi peP into William C. Sdunitt that he went back to Fort-land, Oregon, and the old established Consoli­dated Equipment Co., has now blossomed forth in new name, Sdimitt Steel Co.. at a new address. 2407 N.W. 28th Street. Portland. Bill's company does engineering, designing and fab­ricating in steel. 
191 1 Secretary: Frc4 Steers, IOCS First National Bank Bldff.. CUeaffo. ID. 
191 2 Secretary: B. J. K^ser. 324 Foartfa **'**' St. PittMhnwh, Pa. 
1 Q-l O Panl R. Byrne. University Library, K9M.^ Notre Dame. 
191 4 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes. 406 Bank of America Bnildinr. Anaheim, Calif. 
191 5 Secretary: James E. Sanford, 1524 FarweU Ave., Chicago. lU. 
191 6 Secretary: "Hmothy P. GalHn. First Trust Bldr>. Hammond. Ind. 
tot 7 Secretary: Edward J. HcOsker. 104 
* S. Union St, Elite. HL 
1Q| a Secretary: John A. Lemmer. 1110-^ **'**' 8tfa AT C Eseanaba, Hidiiran. 
191 9 Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street. Gary, Indiana. 
192 0 Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Blade Bldg., Los Anreles. CaUf. Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.5.C.. is on sick leave from the department of philosophy of Noire Dame. 
192 1 Secretary: Dan W. Dnffy. 1600 Ter­
• minal Tower, aeveland, Ohio. 
192 2 Secretary: Gerald Ash^ BaCalo Ath­*^*^ letic Club, Buffalo, New York 

192 3 Secretary: Paul H. Castner. 17 Cor> nell Road, West Hartford. Conn. A note from Cliff Ward on a very proper Paris postcard states that he and Harry Hosan. '04, fellow Fort Wayne alumnus, are "doing the places of Europe." 
192 4 Secretary: J. F. Hayes, Wm. J. Ped­tick and Co., International BuUdinr. Rockefeller Center. New York City. 
Harry S. Drtggs, new city comptroller of South Bend, was guest of honor at a testimon­ial dinner given by associates at the First Bank and Trust, South Bend, where Harry was assistant secretary and treasurer. 
The ALUMNUS extends its sympathy to Thomas J. Aheam on the death of his mother. Tom is really imbedded in the Holly\vood movie colony, where he is a scenario writer. Eight of his stories have been filmed. Paramount, 
R.K.O. and Universal having produced them, 
192 5 Secretary: John P. Hurley. 2085 **'*• ' Brookdale Road. Toledo. Ohio. 
John Hurley sends in copies of two grand letters — one from H. J. "Spike" McAdams. 
' 801 Commerce Building. 155 East 44th Street New York City. — the other from Bob Hurley. 34 Beaumont Place. Newark. New Jersey. 
Spike wrote: 

"In replying to your recent card requesting news of the boys of 1925, I will endeavor to give you what meager dope is at hand. 
"As I beliei'e you know, I have the New York office for the good old Hoosier outfit. the Tokheira OH Tqnk and Pump Co., of Fort Wayne, Indiana, and consequently get back to Indiananow and then, but not very frequently to South Bend. I did manage to make the Minnesota game this year, and, as T was there for about only * four hours, I didn't see very many of the gang. I did run into your name­sake. Bill Hurley, who was down from Sag­
' inaw, and also saw Father John "Ike" Lyndi. The one classmate of ours, whom I see very frequently here in New York is Jade Shechan, who is in charge of used car sales for the Packard Motor Company. ..I live in Bronxville and Jack lives in the neighboring city of New Rochelle. Jack has two youngsters up on me, having t^vo boys and a girl, while the Mc­Adams have one daughter. 
"I bumped into Chariey Donahne of the 

"News' the other day. Bags Walthers was in my office for a short chat recently, and I was also visiting with Howard Benltz. who is with the telephone company; and at the Notre Dame-Army fame I saw BiU Bell from Roch­ester. Pat Canny, who is a railroad attorney in Cleveland, "was also there- We had quite a party out at the Westchester Country Club the day hefore the game and had several pleasant hours with Walter O'Keefe, Francis Wallace and Tim Marphy. Paul Castner is a frequent visitor from Hartford. 
"My office telephone is Murray Hill 2-5020, and I certainly would greatly appreciate any of the old gang giving me a ring the next time they are here. 
"You used to get down this way once in awhile and I am wondering if you still do. Is Butch Haecker still located in Detroit?" 
Bob wrote: "Thanks a lot for the card which finally reached me after going to a couple of former addresses. It' caught me right at the busiest time of the year so the answer to it will be rather short. You see, I am with the United Parcel Service and we handle the retail deliv­eries for over 300 stores in the New York area'.' So at this time of the year we are ex­ceedingly rushed in our job of playing Santa to several millions of people. 
"In spite of the periodica] rushes it is a great business, full of young men and grow­ing all the time. We have covered practically the entire west coast for years and are also in operation in Cincinnati, Milwaukee and Philadelphia. 
"I wish I could have been with you and Bill at the Minnesota game. How is he. and how are you? I saw the Army game but ran into no one I knew. For several years my work was done mostly at night so I got out of con­tact with the NJ). boys around in Jersey. However, I do manage to drop in on John Bartley in Closter, New Jersey, every now and then. He and Helen have three little girls who show everj- indication of being as charm­ing as their mother. John is still the same old John." 
Illness still handicaps Joseph A, Mcnser. San Antonio, but Joe is as cheerful and as thoughtful as ever. A note from him says that he visited with two *24 men recently, Tom Ahearn stopping in San Antonio for a bit, and Charley McGonagle being even farther from his Ohio home en route from the Coast. Fran­cis Leary of Freer, Texas, was also a visitor at the Menger home during the Christmas holidays, with his family. Joe heard recently from Mike Nei tzel of Boise, Idah o. Mike Necdham is with the Euick company in Cor­pus Christi, and John Snakard is with Amer­ican Air^vays in New York. 
1926 Sccretaty: James A. Ronan, 127 N. Demrbom St., ClUcaro, Dltnois. 
1927 Secretaty: Joseph AL Boland. Athletic Office, Notre Dame, Ini). JcAn Brecn, attorney for the Kemper In­surance Co., Mutual Insurance BIdg., Chicago, was among the out-of-to\vn alumni at the St. Joe Valley Club football banquet in December. 
192A Secretair: Lonls F. BncUey, 19C5 *•'*•" Blltmore St. N.W„ Waihiniten, D.C. Buckley and Santa Claus sent this to you: "Thank you. Bob Hamilton, for-that record breaking column in the December ALUMNUS. I hope the future guest writers will accept it as a standard both in quality and quantity for their contributions. 
"The only news which I have been able to gather for this issue has come via Christmas greeting cards. John Herbert, who is now married, resides at 7264 Radboume Road, Upper Darby, Pennsylvania. He is a repre­sentative for the Will S. Baumec Candle Com­pany of Syracuse. I hope that Father Mnl­reany, C.S.C., sees to it that John's brand of candles are being sold in all the churches in New Orleans. John Gaacfaan - is • still with 

T.V.A. and lives at the ^Vhittle Springs Hotel at Knoxville, Tennessee. Bcmie Garber, as Hamilton mentioned last month, is back in New York. I want to scoop Hamilton by stating that Bemie is now living at 309 W. 57th Street in New York City. 
"The Alumni Office came through with an up to date list of addresses of classmates. I'll be glad to exchange any address you want for some news. I hope this bait will work as I would like to be able to continue contributing a few notes each month even though we are depending on our guest writers for most of the news. 
"The following names appear on the de­ceased list of classmates: Michael S. Curtis, M.A.: Sidney Eder, LL.B.: George Flicjt, A.B.; Jim Gray, A.B.; Harold Halpin, A.B.; George Kiener. A.B.; William R- Murphy, M.A.; Jo­seph Dennis Murphy. A.B.; Frank O'Took, A-B., Joseph Prelli, Ph.B. For. Commerce; Ed­ward A. Walsh, A.B.; Lawrence White, A.B. 
"There are a number of classmates whose mail has been returned unclaimed. I am list­ing these names with the hope that some of you may be able to give us their addresses. Jim Berry, Phil Berthiaume, Ed Bcthke, Vin­cent Carey, Joe Daley, BiU Owyer, Han y Engcl, Paul Falter, Lester FlewelUng, William Goebel, Richard Green, Jacob Halperin, Lester Hegele, David Hickey. Austin J. Holland, James Ingram, Hudson Jeffreys, Walt Layne, Francis Li, Maurice McMenansin, Ed Hc-Sweeney, Lyle Maloney, Vco Mmima, James Morrissey, George P. Murrtn, Valentine O'Don­ohue, Vincent O'Mcara, Carl Pettcrsch, Enfcne Phillips, Jerome Rayburn, James ReiUy, Her­bert Rudduck, Raymond Spencer, Charles Ar­thur Steinius, Edward Tully. Kirwin Williams, George Wray, Alexander Borawiki, George Fitzgerald. 
"I am sure that some of you can give me a hand in obtaining the addresses of these men. I know that Art Stenius is teaching in Detroit. I talked to him when he was back for the 10-year reunion, but unfortunately I did not obtain his address. The strangest thing about the list is that we have Linns Ma­loney's St. Paul address, but his brother lorle's mail has been returned.unclaimed. How about clearing up this mystery for us, IJnus? 
"One ot the most interesting columns con­tributed last year came from one of our engi­neer guest writers, John Fagan, We are to hear from another representative of that group next month. After going over the list, I have decided that Chet Rice is the man who we can depend upon for another interesting column next month. Chet should have lots of news as he has travelled quite a bit between Chi­cago and Youngstown during the past few years and has been present at all of our June reunions since 102S. I hope Chet will receive the co-operation of the engineers so that he will be able to do as well as the representati^K of the Commerce men did last month. Drop Chet a note at 477 LaCIide Street W., Youngs­town, Ohio. The deadline is February 15 (un­less l>oolcy moves it up as he did this month with a one-day notice.)" 
Joe Morrisscy, harassed by the Managing Ed., still got some fine news under the wire from Cincinnati: 
"I have waited patiently for news from the boys, and now my time is up. The deadline was the 15th, but HmtXttj eat it short. 

"Here in the OMo Vall^^ we find B«tts Crowley as Goldsmith's baseball si>edalty man and a member of the International League's staff of umpires. Jim Scliocknessy is head of the H.OX.C. for this region. Oscar Ru t is the hot and cold man of Greensburg. Indiana. Ross Harrington is' pleading for justice at Richmond.. Indiana. Al Tdum is selling the better grade of new clothes at Springfield, Ohio. George St'rohm is checking up on the gas tax for the state of- Ohio. Hudson Jef­freys, they tell me, — and I intend to see for myself soon, — is in business at Ironton, Ohio. Joe Kinneary of the Ohio State legal depart­ment plans to return here soon and practice law. Yours truly is with the King Manufac­turing Company and we make and handle burlap and cotton bags. 
"I was told that Kirby was in town last summer. Wonder if he still remembers our meeting John Wallace in front of Sorin one Saturday night about 7 o'clock. Joe Bigney called on Bob Hughes while here for a short visit recently. 
"I would appreciate'bearing from rany of the boys and I promise a prompt reply. My present address is 22 Bfain Street, Cincinnati. Here is every good wish to the members of the class." 
Bob Hamilton was moving so fast last month that he had Bob Grant, successful Re­publican candidate for Congress from the South Bend Area, as an accountant with the S.E.C., whereas Bob Grabam is the SX.C. staff member to allay the turmoiL 
John Fontana writes from the Attorney General's office in Columbus, Ohio, that his young brother wants to enter ND . in the fall. 
Richard A. Weppner, 1325 Granger St., Lakewood. Ohio, is doing work at the graduate school of Western Reserve U. 
1929 SecreUry: Joseph P. McNamars, At­torney Gen. Office, Indianapolis, Ind. 
From Indianapolis, Kvansville and sundry points in the deep south of Indiana come these delicious notes from the gross income tax hound. Hr. HcNamara: 
" 'Simon Legree' Dooley's stem command *more copy nowl' followed so closely upon the season of uncorking good times that your scribe hasn't even had enough time to shatter all of his shiny New Year's resolutions before presenting this words-eye view of the twenty­niners: 
"Remember the fellow on the top floor of Walsh Hall with the radio equipped with a loud speaker out-into-the-hallway for special occasions? Yes sir. that was BCarc Kirdmer, I thought you'd remember I Well, truth 'is that Marc's still doing it. — only on' a much larger scale. Moreover he's chosen a town that's received most of its renown by virtue of a very popular radio program as the arena of his activities. You've guessed it the first time, fellow. Blare gets his mail at 412 West Sixih Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas. Marc is acknowledged to be one of the best radio ser­vice engineers of that part of the country, holds a radiophone first class conunercial gov­ernment license, and straightens out the kinks for the local broadcasting station. . . . Back in '29 Marc started out as a test engineer s^ the Genera] Electric Company at Schenectady. New York, but when the depression Hit his father's business he took a leave of abseiice ahid went back to Wheeling, West '^rginia. After act­ing things adjusted he visited Little Rock and Pine Bluff, lliinks developed so well that he 
decided to stay in Pine Bluff *just a little longer/ — and he's stiU there. . -. Marc haa been over most of the South and particularly Florida. He reports that he sees John Mnr­phy, who is with Swift and Company in Fort Smith, Arkansas, every now and then. . . . that Jim Kennedy writes him often and that Jim is really doing a fine job with the Triumph Instrument Company in ChicaRO . . . that Elmo Moyer is still with the General Electric Company working with Thyratrons in the Research I^ab and that he has a family . » • that Fred Weiss stopi>ed in to see Marc one Saturday and that they talked about *the old iranE* until the yawniuR hours . . . that Marc attended the funeral of Conlcy Murphy who died in Shreveport and who was buried in the family plot in historic St. Joseph's Cemeterj-. Marc headed a Pine Bluff delesation that vis­ited the campus for the Minnesota game and after that he week-ended with Paul Bar­tholomew. 
"And now let's RO west for our next no­table: Edward L- ('Bob') Barrett is carrj-inp on out in Albany, Oregon. Bob is the head of the old. well-established, and thriving farm machinery firm of Barrett Brothers, which is a real institution out in those parts. - . . After June of '29 Bob took a six-month trip through Europe, the British Isles (particular emphasis on Ireland) and then returned to enter Stan­ford Law School in the fall of 1930. One year of Stanford convinced him that Notre Dame was far better so he headed back for the Golden Bome. studied under Dean Konop for two more years ad received his law degree in June, 1933. Bob hurried to the Pacific Coast to take over a post with a fine Seattle law firm, but soon his father's failing health necessitated his return to Oregon to pinch-hit in the family business. Upon the death of his father in the following January he turned his back on the law permanently. A lot of Bob's time, and that of his wife. Madelyn, is taken up in grooming 'Bucfcey,' aged two years, and Dennis, aged two months, for ;Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. 
"A short time ago Barrett and Felir Ishcr­wood had dinner together in Portland, Oregon. Yes, twenty-nine's own Burton Holmes is back home after travelling and working in the Orient. Felix went out to China, Japan and points east as a representative of the States Steamship Company, and did a mighty fine record on a difficult assignment, "While 'He' was in China the former St, Marj-'s girl who used to stand three deep in men at all the dances journeyed all of the way out to China to say 'I do' and to carry out the famous St. Btary's-Notre Dame tradition. Felix is an agent for several steamship companies in Portland and is doing well. . , . Also in Port­land is Norb Kavanaugh who is making a name for himself in the practice of the law. His offices are in the Mead Building. . . . At Grande Ronde, Oregon, is Eddie Murphy who is in command of the office of the family lumber mill, and who is reported to be a 'dyed­in-the-wool Republican.' (Note: Eddie should be feeling a bit better now.) 
"In answer to requests this department in­stituted a man-hunt for Paul A. Bersch and located him at 836 Amherst Street, Akron, Ohio. Paul is a valuable performer for the Rohner Paper Company and is counting on being one of the first on hand for the big Ten-Year Reunion this June. Immediately after graduation Paul decided to go with the Seiberling Rubber Company, and turning down offers of assistance, went out to the rubber plant and got into the employment line. ITie result was a starting job as a time clerk in a new department. E\'idently the 
executives of the plant liked this unusually usual api>roach and kept their eyes on 'the young man* with the result that Paul soon was made department foreman, and finally boosted to the post of superintendent of pro­duction and shipping in the auto-mat depart­ment. Since that division was currently work­ing three eight-hour shifts per day the result was that Bersch practically lived at the Sei­berling plant, "When automobile production dropped off sharply Paul's department was closed and while the plant executives kept him on the payroll he realized that he was the recipient of an unusual favor and hence he decided upon another unusual move: he took a voluntary leave of absence with the result that he had time enough to find another job. — which he did. He plunged into an entirely new type of business and spent the next year and a half breaking in a new sales territory as an employee of the Rohner Paper company. Then, in September of 1931» Paul enrolled in the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. There Paul met Paul Barch and Jack Dempsey» — and also a certain Miss Barbara McAdams (who hap­pened to be the sister of Benny McAdams, '27, and of Garrett McAdams, a roommate of Carl Schnurr over in Freshman Hall in our first year.) According to Bertsch the work at Harvard Graduate School was more of a repe­tition than a continuation of the work that Paul had had under Dean Mac at N.D.. so in the fall of 1932 Paul again signed up with the Rohner Paper Company and began saving for a trip to the Log Chapel. •— ivhich was made in October of 1934. Oh yes. Garrett Mc­Adam's sister was the girl in that picture. And presently the Bertsch household boasts of PauPs daughter who has only, sixteen years to 
put in before being the Prom Queen at St. Mary's, and of a son, whom Paul verily be­lieves will be a monogram man not later than 1947. 
"The 'cob-um* is indebted to Paul Bersch for the following data: Carl Sdlnurr is a very successful attorney in Akron, and is married; . . . Chick McGuckian now weighs better than two-fifty, plans to diet on beer: . . . Brendan McAdams is married and is living in Cleve­land; has two children, a girl and a boy, and is working for the Alatantic Commission Com­pany : . . . Joe and Steve Wozniak are leading lav,-yers in Akron. Both are Benedicts. . . . Claude Homing is with the Horning Lumber Company in Akron and has said *I Do.' . . . Joe Kraker operates The Old Heidelberg, (need we explain that it's a German restaurant) in Akron, and according to all and sundry Joe serves the best dinners that can be obtained in that Congressional D istrict. Kraker is married and ever>*body raves about 'those three darling Kraker children.* . . . Vlrge Cline (of Band and Orchestra fame) took a trip araund the world on a tramp steamer after gradua­tion and then ^eu t two years at the Harvard Graduate School of Commerce. This he fol­lowed up by taking a law degree at Harvard, and more recently he has been a hard working legal expert oh the staff of the Attorney-General of Ohio; . . .Joe Rebel is married and is working for the East Ohio Gas Com­pany ; . . . Tom Lee is practicing law in Can­ton, Ohio, and according to late reports, has not yd been moonlighted into matrimony. . . . Garrett 'Barge* McAdams of Lowell, Massa­chusetts, was killed in an auto accident at Midland, Texas, in March of '38. Barge had played at the 'Famous Door' in New York with Louis Prima, was playing with'Ben . Pollock at the time of his death, and \vns soon to have joined Vincent Lopez's orchestra. R.LP. 
"At this point of the meeting, the secre­tary wishes to inquire about the Academy of 
Science Bob Schnlze. . . . The sec made sev-; eral unsuccessful attempts to contact Schulze via long distance telephone during the holi­days but only succeeded in discovering that our present address for Bob is erroneous. Bob may be remembered for more than a score or more campus crimes ('Who put the dog in Prof. Antonio J. Provost's room?'), including springing the term 'drugstaurant' in his B.S. thesis, so that a letter from Bob for this department would really be something. How about it. Bob? . . . Incidentally, varsity bas­ketballman Bob Voglewede of Decatur, — now of Chicago and Miami. — and Schulze used to be as close as two ticks of a clock, so that perhaps Voglewede could favor us with the data on Schulze, — and on the other twenty­niners that he's met in his travels. Here's hoping! 
"Up in the cereal headauarters of Battle Creek we ran into a lot of information relat­ing to J. Edward Baum. — *£d' to alt of the gang. Ed is an agent for the Prudential Life Insurance Company and has the faculty of getting those signatures on the spotted Hne without causing a rush for the legislature to have an open season declared on insurance men. Since the memorable day Ed has ac­quired two sons and a daughter;—-the young­est son a red-headed husky who looks like a mighty good future blocking backfieldman. . . . Incidentally. Harold Steinbacher is the present prosecuting attorney at Buttle Creek. He is married, has no issue. . . . Louis Sin­clair is an editor on the Battle Creek 'Enquirer and Evening News.' Louie phones home when he has to work late and boasts (deservedly so) of two boys and a girl, , . . Frank Murray is operating his own heating and ventilating company in Battle Creek, is married and has one son. . . . Henry Baum is teaching in Los Angeles, while Ed's younger brother. Art Banm, is working on his Doctor of Philosophy degree at Notre Dame. 
"Recent news from the Nation's Capital reveals that brilliant Dave Lehman, the great­est dramatic writer that 'The Juggler' ever knew, has been married to Miss Ednama Bertram, whose reputation as an unusually talented Shakespearean actress was and is most enviable. The writer had luncheon with 'the two of them' in Washington last summer and can testify that Dave's choice is decidedly a menace to normal breathing. This wedding has a lot of romantic angles that w*ouId pro­vide Hariy Sylvester or Frank Wallace with plots by the yard: for example, Dave is the able and effective secretary of Senator Johnson of Colorado while Miss Bertram is on the sec­retarial staff of Senator Van Nuys of Indiana; or again, it seems that they met through the magic of a Notre Dame 'Juggler' charm. Rumor hath it that Miss Bertram frowned upon a Hollywood movie contract so that she could be with Dave. Congratulations, Dave! 
Thomas C. Murphy was re-elected for a term of four years as judge of the probate court of Wayne County (Detroit). Tom has had a remarkable record in the office and received the largest vote of any of the candidates. 
Paul C. Bartholomew of the politics faculty at Notre Dame, has been appointed acting head of that department while Rc%-. Francis 
J. Boland, CS.C., '18. is away recovering from a severe attack of pneumonia. 
193 0 Scctetary: Robert Hellmns. Hnm­boldt Bldr.. St. Louis, Misioaii. 
Bob Hcllmng. your St. Louis correspondent, starts the new year right, as follows: 
"Here sits your correspondent with a holiday hangover and headache, waiting to hear from his West Coast stooge with a report on the 
February, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Southern California week-end and the Hne-up of 30*s who were in attendance. The dead­line for this issue is here and the mailman came in with his last delivery of the week. Still no mail postmarked Los Angeles. What happened to DOUR Daley? Perhaps he still hasn't gotten over the excitement of the Southern California week-end. Perhaps he is still tryinff to dope out how Notre Dame lost that t^me. 
"In this last mail, however, came a letter from Champaign, Illinois, It was the best bracer I have received for the new year. An­other county has been heard from, another correspondent has been bom. Allow me to present the man of the hour, the one and only 
E. W. 'Slim* Halloran. (Oh, if there were only more Slim Hallorans in this class of 1930!) 
"He writes as follows: 'Having just finished reading your very interesting report of the class of 1930, as of the December issue of the ALUMNUS. I have come to the conclusion that there has been all too little said about the mid-western members of our class. Hence in the holiday lull in the legal business I feel called upon to quote at some length.* 
." 'For instance, the White Plains. N. Y., go-getter, Danny Sullivan, passes through these twin cities quite often with his very comely wife. Dan is sales manager for the Electrolux Corporation and is going great guns. Sally modestly admits that her black Irishman is the best man in the whole Corporation. Then, too, Dan says by way of report that his room­mate, Donald Sullivan is doing a typical Xotre Dame coaching job in New Hampshire, and that he is head basketball coach.* 
" *Pat Gogginsr of Areola, Illinois, dropped in on his way back from the Southern Cal game. He reports a mar>'elous time, and says that the words "Notre Dame** are very popular on the Coast. Pat is managing his father*s lumber yard and hag pulled the lumber busi­ness out of a severe hole that was occasioned by a disastrous iire some time ago.* 
" *Johnny McCarty, the same who used to hold the line on the back court in basketball during our time, comes in occasionally to brag about the insurance business and the fact that his skin is immune to the dreaded bite of the prevalent "love-bug." And, boy, has his ath­letic figure taken on reinforcements!' 
" *Joe McCabe, Notre Dame's contribution to the Congoleum industrj-, is a frequent visi­tor to my office. He is always armed to the teeth with snapshots and anecdotes concerning his new daughter and his daughter's ma. And, incidentally, Joe would have a tough time bringing his 205 pounds down to his former fighting weight.' 
" *Joe Meitzler can always be found pro­prietoring his father's popular cigar store and tavern in Danville.* 
" 'Tommy Malloy lives here in Champaign and often expresses the wish that he had graduated from old N.D., as well as Illinois.* 
" 'I see John Healy every time I go to Chicago, and can report that he and his -wife are doing a great job of transporting middle-west Americans all over Europe on the well-known "Hayes-Healy Escorted Tours." John looks prosperous and is always a . traveling encyclopedia of Chicago Notre Dame happen­ings.' 
" 'I have also s^ien Pat AIcLaughKn on sev­eral occasions since graduation and can report that he is doing well promoting Recession and other valuable bonds.* 
" 'As for myself, I have my place in the legal field, as you will see from the heading or letter-head. And I am In the first 10 starv­ing years. I have a good prospect for tackle at old NJ>., but he is now hut 3 3'ears and 38 pounds — for reference. I would like to hear from Larry Mnllins, yourself, or any of the old gang.' 
"Bravo, Slim, and congratulations on your legal career. We hope that you and Mrs. Halloran and that 38-pound tackle prospect 'go to town' during 1939. 
"To the rest of you *30s, Happy New Year, and your correspondent hopes that by the time this article reaches you in print you will have suificiently recovered from the holiday season to be able to sit down and drop me P line about the '30s in your 'County.' " 
1931 ^cn^nr: Jobn Bcrsui, 838 E. Col­fax Ave., SoBtfa Bend, Ind. 
193 2 Secntarr: Herbert Gior«io, 9f05 IS8A **^ *• Street, HoIUs. L. L, New To A . 
Cyriel A. Himschoot was appointed city comptroller of Mishawaka effective January 1­He was also a state representative in the In­diana legislature. With Bendix until his new-work began, he is married and has two children. 
Thomas G. Bath, Jr., active in young Repub­lican affairs in South Bend since graduation. has gone to Washington as secretary to the newly elected congressman, Robert Grant. 
193 3 Secretary: Donald Wise. 110 Fleuant 
•'*"'*' Street, JoUet, lUinois. 
Loren J. Hess is now chief adult probation officer of St. Joseph County (South Bend). Loren has had a great deal of experience, coming back to his present job from Wash­ington, D.C., where he was doing juvenile court case work. 
Joe McCabe, ex-editor of the "ex-Juggler," is picture editor of the Chicago "Times." 
193 4 SecreUry: Jamei Mowow, 2320 North Lawndale Are.. CUeaca, UUmeU 
Remember the Reunion, says Moscow in the following: 
"Most welcome and just as unexpected came a recent report from Dick Mullen, who with Mrs. Mullen makes bis residence in Los An­geles. Dick is controller for the Padre Vine­yard Company and reports that Jim Fitz­patrick is also living in Los Angeles, owning and operating the Figueroa Boot Shop in that city. Dick also spotted Augie Von Boecklin at the Notre Dame^University of Southern California football rally. 
"Gene Blish sends greetings from Colorado and promises to be on hand at the reunion in June. 
"Speaking of our reunion. I would like to suggest, or rather urge, that each of you in­tending to make South Bend in June, drop me a card to that effect, so that from issue to issue of the ALUJINUS we can watch the list grow. Such a procedure might also ser\'e as an impetus to the more apathetic of us who think 'ftw, what's the use?' So let's hear from you !** 
The embryo Placement Service of the Asso­ciation takes an amateur crow in announcing the new address of Mclvin Meyer, formerly of Minneapolis, who is now employed by the Mc­Gill Electric Co.. Valparaiso, Indiana. Mel was placed through the Ser\'ice in cooi>era­tion with Dean James E. McCarthy. 
Dan Bfahoncy* whose "News-Times" folded up under him, seems to have landed as hap­pily as the Bounty's motiaeers in the sales promotion department of the Studebaker Cor­poration. Dan had been assistant editor for five years. 
193 5 Secretarr: Franklyn C. Hodhrcitcr, 530 St. Peter St.. New Oricans, La. 
Hocfareiter took New Orleans without a shot 
— and then wrote this: 
"From our room in the Jung Hotel in New Orleans comes this column on onr second night in the city of Vieux Carre and Andy Jack­son's statue (atop his horse)! We thought we would have an opportunity to be settled in our apartment before embarking on further jour­nalistic ramblings, but, behold, a card from our 'Minute-Man Doolcy* awaited us this morning at the office —• having been foriivarded from Midland. 
"The 26th of December has come and gone; New York City and Washington have been visited: -Virginia, Tennessee, Georgia, Ala­bama. Mississippi, and finally Louisiana have been crossed on the southern route. The 4th of January saw Mr. and Mrs. Hodireiter arrive in the new 'home town" (we wonder for how long?) in a car bursting with lug­gage. By the 9th we hope to be established and then 'work.' 
"One letter arrived in Midland before we left on the 14th of December, but this morn­ing we found several Christmas cards that had been forwarded. They all carried an extra penned message, for which we were much grateful. 
"Urst to the letter — It came from Ed O'Ham who is at present living in Hammonds­port. New York. We appreciated Ed's epistle, as our last contact with the Rochester lad -was during our year at Columbia when he was at Teachers College "with Bob Carter. After tak­ing his MJl., Ed taught for awhile in the home town on a part-time basis for the Roch­ester Health Department. : • 
"In June. *37, the 0*Hara prodigy marched himself off to the Log ChaiwI and took unto himself a bride. Ed did not volunteer the lucky gal's former name, but we are curious, and anxious to have it for the records, Ed! 
"September, '38, brought fortune into the O'Hara home and Mr. and Mrs. moved to the new address where Ed obtained a contract to teach Physical Education in the high school. Nice going fella — luck and happiness! And for the missive — thanks a million! 
"We learned that Bob Carter has left the northern snows for the sunny climes of Texas. In fact he has been teaching physical educa­tion in the Amarillo Business College, Amatil­lo, Texas, ever since leaving Columbia in *36. 
"Frank Maxwell has also left the home environs of New York State to take on a posi­tion in Grand Rapids, Ohio, where he is spot­ting the boys through their muscle paces at Nazareth Hall Military School. 
"Smiling Ray Shea has been corresponding with Ed and sends the information that he is connected with a railroad in Springfield, Mas­sachusetts. A long bit of welcome comment accompanied the greeting card of Bch Scott, which came from New Rockford, North Da­kota. Thanks a lot for the "Stow on the column. Bob — it really is appreciated! 
"Bob continued on with International Har­vester, a job he has held since graduation. He has a three-state territory of Kansas, Nebras­ka, and North Dakota. Though he sees' few 
of the gang in his district. Bob puts np at H«ric WMIA'S hotel in Fairbury, Nebraska, once in awhile—meeting that other cowboy of the highways — Tom LaLonde in Fargo. Bob and Tom listened in on the Northwestern game. 
"Two weeks before Christmas, Bob spent the week-end with Ken Brown, e.'c '35. and Mrs. Brown, Minot, North Dakota. Ken*s wife was formerly Rosemary Gillie of Butte, Montana- They were married in February, '38. Ken is traveling for Johns-Manville in Mon­tana and North Dakota. 
"It would seem that BiU Toumey is 'on the road' for the New York 'News* now (or have you changed papers. Bill?), as Bob writes he expected Bill in Sioux City. Iowa, for Christ­mas. The Iowa metropolis is the location of the Scott tribal tepee I Ah, a gala time was had, we venture! Bob sends his best to all the mobl 
"A grand card came through from Neil Crowley down Brooklyn way. Neil has never missed a Christmas to send us a few welcome words, though he is silent throughout the year. 
"Felicitations, Nel, on the new status in life I And may you and Kathleen find happi­ness and success together! Neil was married, last October 1. to Kathleen O'Shea, and a colleen's name it is, too! 
"During the past year our philosophy wizard, who returned to pursue social work, has been employed by the Department of Pnb­lic Welfare !n New York City as an investi­gator. Not a bad profession at that, eh, Neil? 
"Though it carried no message, we were no end pleased with a card from Jim Keongfa. who wrote from Duluth, np Minnesota way. 
"Having invited our three side-kicks. Proc­tor, Korzeneski and Gorman, to usher at the 'main event* and, in turn, not being able to obtain the services of any of them, due to ex­tenuating circumstances and reasonable excuse, we were fortunate in recei^ng a swell epistle from each. 
"Tom continues as Elkhart's number one legal threat; Art is cramming to make a year and a half in one at Loyola law school; and Vince is very definitely embarked on the first throes of a preparation for a medical career at Cornell School of Medicine in New York City. 

"On our trip to New York, we stopped in to sec Vince and found him at the Kingston ad­dress, home for Christmas and looking the part as always. We had an all too short but really pleasant visit. It was worth being a half hour late for that New York City ap­pointment, .Vince. 
"Once down in the big town we lost no time in taking Mrs. Hochreiter to Jlmnue Ross, '34, Tavern at Slst and 6th. And from there we called Louis Gro«so who joined us pronto. There followed much reminiscing and an evening doing up the 'write way'l Louis is pounding the streets and haunting the law offices, having taken his Columbia LL.B. last June. 
"And that, gang, brings us back to room 1244 in the Jung. No permanent address yet. so make it temporarily — Institute of Mental I^'giene, Hutchinson Memorial Building, New Orleans, Louisiana. We need letters, so let's clean up the last few issues of this season with a bang." [Ed's note to classmates: Dotft worry too much about that temporary address. After all, it IS temporary.] 
LATER: Permanent address is 530 St. Peter St. 

The Notre Dome Alumnus 
Rev. Tfaom«s M. Cemon was ordained Decem­ber 17 at LaPorte. Texas, and said his fii^ Mass on Christmas Day at St. Hichael's in Houston. 
E. Spencer Walton is Mishawaka's new dty attorney. Spencer was practicing law, is still unmarried. 
IS^f i SecreUry: Joiin Honm €1 B. fSCh *^ " St., Apt 2, New York City. 
Thanks, largely, to the Christmas card sea­son, Johnny Horan is able to come through for you again. 
Managing Editor Bill Dooley'a frantic card pleading for some last minute class notes didn't give us enough time to contact a few news sources. So we'll begin the New Year with a short column, and trust that it will grow, like and with, the coming 12 months. 
"Right out of the mailbag came Christmas greetings from many of you. Thanks — we really appreciate your thoughtfulness. . Among those who remembered us with their kind . wishes were Bob Cavanangh, from the nation's capital and the FDIC, Tom Campfccll, Grand Rapids, Andy Hnfnagel from Ridgewood, Long Island, Bill Walsh from Yonkers and Fotd­ham Law School, Cy Sfroker, '37, transplanted Connecticut nutmeg, now working for an ex­port house in New York, and BCdtcy Dendlcr from Philadelphia. 
"Also Walt Matusevidi with an orii^nal card from Paterson, New Jersey, Hr. and Mrs. Al Torribio from IJOS Angeles, the newly­weds whose marriage was chronicled in the last issue. Lin Phoebns from Philadelphia, and Bnd Goldman from Woodmere, Long Island. Also Jim Sherry, Mr. and Mrs. Joe Mansfi^, BiU Gillespie, Doc Cmmar, Jim Kirfcy, and John Walker, who included a little note to the effect that he is now a junior accountant with the Mississippi River Power Company. The old demon 'Dome' editor has been with the same firm since July, 1936. John can be reached at 903 North 12th, Keokuk, Iowa. How about covering the com. belt, John,-and giving us a bit more information on your­self and the other comhuskers in the future? 
"One of the pleasant surprises of the holi­day season was the announcement of the ap­proaching marriage of my old roommate. Cliff Brown. Cliff wrote that he will say 1 do' to Miss Kay Ruffing at Bellevue, Ohio, on January 19. Knowing the charming bride-to­be from dance week-ends at Notre Dame we know that Cliff is making an excellent choice. So good luck to you both! 
"Fmt Tofnri dropped a line to state that he is noxF hoy*s worker at the Cambridge Neigh­borhood House, Cambridge, Massadiusetts. Pat reports that the 'big event' is not' far away for him either, i^irking back to our student daj-s as mailman in Badtn Hall we remember that duly missive that we lugged, without in­terruption, from September till June. So while we aren't too surprised by the an­nouncement, Pat, good luck to yon. Pat also writes that he sees another N.D. graduate, Tom Hnrphy, '26. frequently. Murphy is teacher-coach at Rindge Tech. 
"It would seem that the gang in and around New York gets more than its share of space in these columns since the letters from the Mid-West, South, and West have been almost negligible lately, - So we'll just mention that we saw Joe 'Andy Hardy* Sduaidt, BUI Walih, Howie Cnsai^ Biff FUHMEJ, JIM Kitby, and others, either at the Commtmion breakfast at St. Patrick's and the Roosevelt Hotel on December 11, or at the Defsmber 
February. 1939 
alumni meeting. Jim Kirby, Jerry Kane, '38, and several friends of Jim McDevitt, *35. as well as your correspondent, made up a party at the highly successful Christmas Dance spon­sored by the Met Club at the St. Moritz on December 27. Also seen were Joe Schmidt, with at least six committeewomen from the College of New Rochelte out scouting for a Senior From Band, Jack Skelly, Bill Gillespie, Howie Cnsack and a lot of other party goers. 
"The last item of business for this issue strikes an athletic note. BUI Sdimidt, '35. having issued a challenge from the classes of *34.-'35, to the '36,-'37 contingent to engage in a bowling match for the championship of greater New York, we have decided to put the upstarts in their places. So any of you candidates for the A.B.C. drop us a card and get on the squad which is going to take the wind out of 'Schmidt's Simoon.' 
"Meantime, continuing our alphabetical list of retiring violets who are hiding their lights under a bushel of obscurity, we would like a card or a letter this month from: Fred and John Van Liew, Jim Fax, Joe Fox, Earl Frarcy, Charles Freeman, Karl Folnecky, Fred and Louie Gabriel, Frank Gaol, Hark Geerts, Ken Geidemann, Hal Gilday, BiU Gilston. Jack Gleason, Tom Gleicfaanf, John Gonring, John and Tom Gorman, Herm Green, Leo Greene, and Art Gregory.** 
Id3 7 Secretary: Pan] Foley. 18036 Sdiocn­
* " hoer Road, Detroit. Mich. 
The Detroit stage wheeled in with this just before the deadline: 
"Cheery flickers of the Yule candle have been snuffed out. the goose no .longer hangs high, and with a little effort from the Royal Ark, the New Year has been successfully started. Jeeves, s\veep up the pine needles and we'll try to start 1939 with a balanced budget, 
"Just before the house became hushed for the arrival of St. Nick (assisted by several department store delivery men), we received a letter from Charlie Miles, replete with news of the lads. 
"Pan! Venderle and John O'Brien, both of Fort Wayne, have gone into the accounting and income tax business, we are told. It seems the U.S. government is in some very similar sort of business, though from our own per­sonal knowledge we would say it's just a myth of the bondholder class. However, the lads are said to be perking right along. 
"Bob Nichols, employed in that vast maze of efficiency and free-wheeling known as General Motors, has been transferred from Flint, Michigan, to Indianapolis, Indiana. . 
"Last reports from Daniel C SnUivan, pride and joy of Ulysses, Kansas, was that he was set for a trial with the St. Louis Cardinals. It all hinges, we understand, on whether Daniel C. will look well in the uniform of a St. Louis peanut butcher. It is also rumored that there is a possibility that all of the Car­dinals will be traded to Pewamo in the Sag­inaw Valley League for half a dozen cracked bats. 
'"Miles, among other items, reports that Took' Reidy passed through Chicago some months ago and reported himself on the receiving end of three raises from his uniden­tified employer. Haybe we should let all the employers remain incognito. 
"The county clerk down in EI Paso recently made a couple of bucks 'off Didc Smith, ex­m^lman, by the simple process of selling Dick a marriase license which has since been used. We are told it !s the same 3'ouns lady who used to write Dick those 'Gone With the Wind* letters. Dick» by the way, is in the hardware business. 

"Somewhere on Chicago's teeming North Side is an apartment shared by Bob Traes­dale, the accountant, and Vemer &L>oney, who is \vt>rkins as assistant buyer in the camera department of The Fair. Truesdale, as we have already reported, is with Baumann, fln­nen, an accounting firm. 
"Pete 'Backbar' Johnen is driving a new car as the result of booming business at the 'Colony Tavern.* 
"Correspondent Miles reports that he also has become benedict, having married last August to the former Mary Jane Gillespie. Miles divides his time between teaching at St. Philip High School in Chicago and doing sales work for the Barr & Miles Cartage Co. 
"As though all news breaks out of Chicago, we also report hearing from Bob McClain, pride of the striking Hearst helpers, presently an the stall of the new tabloid 'Herald-Examiner.' 
"McCIain reports that Ed Fischer ducked out from under the recently-collapsed South Bend 'News-Times.* and is now also working for the 'Herald-Examiner.' Milton Bock, who was also on the 'Xews-Hmes,* has been angling for a Chicago opening. 
"According to the latest flash, Marty Bums (he looks fine in tails), is sttU pecking away at the law books at Northwestern. 
"Joe Dorgan is said to be trotting a beat for the advertising department of the Chicago 'Daily News.' 
"Another of the lads in advertising is Charles "Bucky" Jordan, who is in the classi­fied department of the Chicago 'Tribune.' 
"Don Allen is still with Mutual Life Insur­ance Company, and Is reported insuring every­thing in sight. 
"Dick 'Rocky' Riley is doubling in brass down around Youngstown, Ohio, where, in ad­dition to working for the Daily 'Vindicator* (it was a daily at last report), he also does sport corresponding for a Cleveland sheet. 
"Joe Druecker is still batting the ball in the Indianapolis area while peddling canned air. 
"Those roaring presses in the 'Ave Maria' print shop have been stepped up a notch for this issue and the shortened deadline has left us short of copy — that plus the fact that we have heard from so few of the faithful. Pitch a few letters in here and see for yourself what happens when they go through the mill, 
"People we firmly expect to. hear from with­in the proverbial fortnight: Bob Lochner, John *Boir Cavanaush. Ed Kuth, Joe Brien, Jim McHagli, and 'Jar Em John* McGurt" 
193 8 Secretary: Harold A. Williams. 3i€ East Lake Ave.. Baltimore, Bfazrland. 
The Bearcat was clawed in the leg—but not by the Managing Ed. — but he still comes through copiously—and smiling. He says: 
"On December 29 this unexpected message arrived from Bill Dooley, the hard-hitting manager of the ALIJMNUS, 'February ALUM­NUS has to be out early. We'll have to have copy by January 5. Will you please help? Sorry to rush you. Happy New Year.* 
"I didn't have time to send out frantic postcard appeals for news so I'll have to rely on the little material that has trickled in. 
"Christmas cards were received from: Tom Hntdiinson, Gene Vaslett, Don Hidcey, Law­rence J. Kerwin, Jack Crowley (who adds that he is not loafing), Ed Bartnett, Bob HcGrath, Tom Elder, Bill Robinson (now how about that letter. Bill?), Jack Doyle, Charlie CaOa­han, Ed Mattingly, Bud Sherwood, Jake Lcdi­ner, Tex Haggar (he says that he is still allo­cating bis time), Scotty Reardon, and Brother Bertrand — Bill 'Walsh Hall* Mahoney. Inci­dentally. Bill's address is St. Rose Priory, Springfield, Ky. 
"Charlie Callahan, after a short absence, again appears in this column with news about members of the class. In his first letter he gives us this news: Johnny, fire cracker. O'Connor is sulFerlng from an eye Infection. Lou Giragi, way out in Winslow. Arizona, is recovering from a recent illness and intends to start working for a Winslow paper run by his brother, and BiU, T-bone, Blahoney, in addition to taking Law and running the 'Scho­lastic's' highly-praised literary page, is coach­ing the N.D. freshman track team. 
"In his second letter Charlie gives us belated coverage on the Southern Cal-Notre Dame game. Over the week-end Charlie saw, 'Kyle Donnell who is working on the Coast, Jim Murphy at the University of Arizona Law school, Frank Smith (of La Porte Indiana) who was with MS three years, Joe Weidingcr, of Winslow, Arizona, who was with us back In Freshman Hall, and Bunny McCormick who played bang-up ball for the Hollywood Stars and Is planning to go back to school in Feb­ruary, possibly U.S-C. for graduate work in education. Also bumped into Howard Lardie 
(he came on with the team as cameraman, a 
la Dan Cochran), Joe Ruetz, line coach at St. 
Mar>-*s and graduate student at University of 
California, and Jim Manion, who is with the 
Pasadena players. Forgot to mention that 
Bunny scored a touchdown against the Los 
Angeles Bulldogs In the big professional game 
of the season on the West Coast. And now I 
give you the greatest screwball in our class 
and probably In the history of the school — the 
lad who used a substitute in the June gradua­
tion ceremonies — Hub Kirchman. He's work­
ing on the Coast. I think. I hate to say any­
thing definite about Hub. Ho may be in 
Alaska by now. . . .* 
" 'I left my job here in Arizona bearing a wire from NBC saylnir I would work as their spotter for Bill Stern, However, the job was Kiven to Bunny, and I wound up with a seat smack on the 50 yard line, ten rows up from the boxes. . , .' 
"'Here's my situation: working at a dam construction job, Bartlett Dam, and Fm 58 miles from the nearest point of civilization. Phoenix. I'm working hard as a general as­sistant around tlic place; conditions are Ideal for the relief of my sinus . . . working hard .. . up at 6:30 every morning including Sun­day and to work by 7:00 (That's hard to be­lieve because I know we always had a hard time getting Charlie up for the 1:15 class.). . , , expect to be back in New York by Spring. . . .* 
"Charlie's address is Bartlett Dam. Box 471, Phoenix, Arizona. 
"In reply to a post card Inquiry sent out on November 1, I received this letter from Jim Blunt around the first of December. *. . . I am a student at Tufts College, hoping to get a little more background before I enter med school next Fall. Tufts, as you most likeb* don't know, is a small co-ed sdiool outside Boston. I think it's a sood idea to take m.-ytai in a co-ed institution and see how the othur half lives. One should try it before entering NJ). He'd appreciate N.D. twice as much then. . . .* 
V 'There isn't much news from this section as far as I know. Fourteen of the '38 class gathered in Rc]m«ld*s room at Harvard to lis­ten to the Minnesota game. We had quite a party, — tea and wafers, etc ... . Present were Reynolds, Dack Hay, Art Malhcm, Char­lie OsWm, TOM Mulligan, Leo Welch, Dan Cochran, John Baach, Jack Uarrin, and a few others, including myself,* 
" 'Chide Gallasher is working for his father in the building supply game. Jim Malrahey is teaching and coaching at Coyle ICgh in Taim­ton, Massachusetts. Fitzpatrtdc is teaching and coaching in his home town, L«n Tobin is teaching, and John KcDey is working in Bos­ton. I am ignorant as to the whereabouts of the rest of the boys in this section. . . .' 
"Jim Blant, you will all remember, went down in N,D.*s history as the fellow who wore the loudest shirts and socks ever seen this sid; of filax Adler's. Thanks. Jim,, and come again. 
Jack Simon, Frank Detscher, Spnd 0*Brien, John Mnrrin, Gas SIdlee, George Santar, Bus Redgate, and Vernon Race have still to come through with replies to the postcards sent them. 
"And before proceeding with the little news that I have left I'd like to mention that a great number of fellows who are taking grad­uate work in other schools have gone out of their way to mention that their respective schools are way below* Notre Dame's standards when it comes to faculty and food. The fac­ulty and Mr. Connolly can stand and take belated bows, . . . 
"My old roommate. Bud Sherwood, came through with a fine letter just before Christ­mas. He says that he left the Coca Cola job around the first of November and is now with the Chevrolet Motor Company in the time de­partment. He says he has a fine job with good prospects. Sherwood should do -well in his new position because I know be was always guod at watching the clock and mak­ing time. Bud adds that Paul Hughes has started in the collection business with his younger brother In Flint. 
"Tiger McGrath, on his past visit to Balti­more, told me, among other things, that he has been elected vice-president of the freshman Law Class at Catholic University. Tom Hntchinson writes that on a recent business trip to Chicago he went up to the 'Examiner' and had a talk with Nick Lambertb, who is still working as a' copy boy. Nick passes the news along that Danny Ryan is working in the CYO publicity department, and not as a reporter on the Chicago 'Daily News* as was reported in this column. 
"The Placement Bureau of the Alumni Of­fice sends on the following dope: Walt Lew­iecki is working for the Kerr-Addison Gold Mine. Larder Lake, Ontario. Phil Shields is with the American Copper & Brass Company, Kenosha, Wisconsin. John Poore is on a job for the state of Illinois which will require much traveling, but he is in Chicago for the winter. Frank KcUy has a law office with Cowing & Cowing. 418 Chalstrom Building, Joliet. Illinois. John Fox is all set with an accounting job with the McGill Electric Com­pany, Valparaiso, Indiana, BiU CBricn, for­merly of Little Rock. Arkansas, is now work-' ins in Erie. Pennsylvania, and residing there at the YJM.C.A. Bob Hackman's work is in the accounting field with the East Ohio Gas Company, Cleveland. 
"Track Coach John Nicholsot sent word to the Alumni Ofllce that Bill CtifTord is in the lumber and building supply business in Gary» Indiana, in the offices of Chick Bader, *19, and that John Francis is temporarily handline some relief work in Chicago. 
"That's all the news except that I quit my job with the Retail Credit Company around the first of December to take a job as a reporter on Towson 'Union News,* a weekly paper that is published in the county seat of Baltimore County, a few miles north of Baltimore. The work is fine and I'm having the time of my life. 
"I apologize for the shortness of the column and the lack of news, but I was caught fiat-footed by Bill Dooley's sudden request. Too. I've been in bed the past t\vo weeks with an infected leg and don't feel like knocking out a column. It's darned hard typing in bed, so I'll sign off by saying that going over the books I find that 319 names of the '3S class have been mentioned. How about the rest of you 192 fellows kicking through with some'in­formation about yourselves 7 
"I'd particularly like to hear from Maury Kenned}-, Jim AIcGcttrick. Stan Fartyka, Bob Mazanec, Buzz Manix, Tommy Gorman. Alike Crowe. Joe DiMatteo, Bob DuBois, Walt Bun-can, Frank Berry. Frank AVinninger. and Bob Leonard." 
ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 117) 
They can handle the ball. Everyone on the team can shoot—or will be able to from here in. The defense is tight­ening up slowly but surely as the new combination with Brown and Du-Charme at the guards feels its w^ay around. Lightning speed, aggressive­ness, fight, and better-than-average skill should pull Coach Keogan and his pupils through some thrillers be­fore the season ends. So that you may avail yourselves of the oppor­tunity of seeing for yourself what we've been theorizing about, here is the record, along with a list of games left to play: 
Dtic 1—Kalamazoo at Notre Dame: 64-13 
Dec 3—Ball State at Notre Dame: 70-30 
* Dec. 10—^Wisconsin at Madison: 39-45 
•Dec 15—^Midiiffan at Kotre Dame: 38-10 Dec 22—^Korthwcsteni at Nottt: Dame: 48-30 
•Dec 31—NortIi'«restem at Evansfon: 39-43 Jan. 2—Cornell U. at Notre Dame: 48-18 Jan. 7—^Batler at Notre Dame: 37-35 Jan. 14—Kentucky at Louisville Jan. 16-~We5tem Keser^'e at Notre Dame Jan. 21—Canisius at Buffalo Jan. 23—^John Carroll at Cleveland Jan. 28—^Minnesota at Notre Dame Feb. 3—^Ulinots at Notre Dame Feb. 11—N.Y.U. at New York Feb. 13—SjTacuse at Sj'racuse Feb. IS—^Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 23—^Marquette at Miliraukee Mar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis Mar. 7—^Detroit U. at Detroit Mar. 12—N.Y.U. at Notre Dame 
* Indicates Gsmes iMSt 
• 

TRACK Notre Dame's 1939 track schedule, . highlighted by the Central Collegiate 
conference indoor meet here March 10 and 11, has been announced by Di­rector of Athletics Elmer F. Layden. 
Coach John P. Nicholson predicts a poor season on the basis of the dearth of replacements for graduated stars. Losses include John Francis, who bet­tered 1:52 in the half mile; Dan Gibbs, 13-foot 9%-inch pole vaulter; Harold Langton, 13-foot 3-inch vault­er; Pete Sheehan, 48.5-second quarter miler; Capt. Bill Mahoney, who starred in the hurdles and the quar­ter mile; Bill Clifford, who hit 6.2 in the 60-yard dash and 9.6 in the century several times; Gene Gormley, dependable tivo-miler; and Ed Ber­nard, 440 star. 
Captain Greg Eice, N.C,A.A. cross­country record holder and 1937 Na­tional Collegiate two-mile champ, heads the list of returning veterans. He holds the record for the C.C.C. indoor mile and two-mile. 
Bill FaymonvUle, in the shot put and discus throw; Ed Beinor, all-American tackle in the discus; Steve Szumachowski, senior t\vo-miler; Ted Leonas, junior high jump ace; Bill Donnelly, miler; Curtis Hester, prom­ising junior half-miler, who has cracked 1:55; John Dean, 13-foot vaulter and 6-foot high jumper; Joe Halpin, quarter miler; Phil Daugh­erty, broad jumper; Steve Coughlin, sprinter; and Dave Eeidy and Bob Lawrence, hurdlers, are additional re­turning men who should score for the Irish. 

Ben Sheridan, pole vaulter; Bob Saggau and Clarence Marquardt, sprinters, and Beinor in the weights will represent the football squad on the cinder paths. Joe Olbrys, John AVilMnson, Ed Tracey, and John Mack, half milers; and Frank Pfaif in the high jump and pole vault, ap­pear to be the most promising new­comers. 
The schedule follows: 

INDOOR Jan. 30—^Indiana at Notre Dame Feb. 4—^Millrose ffames at New York City Feb. II—3Iichij;an State at Notre Dame Feb. 18—Illinois relays at Champaifni Feb. 24—Michigan at Ann Arbor Mar. 10-11—Central Colieeiatc Conference at 
Notre Dame Mar. 18—^Butler relays at Indianapolis 
OUTDOOR April 15—3Iissouri» Wisconsin & Notre Dame 
at Columbia. Mo. April 28-29—Drake and Fenn relays May 6—Ohio State at Columbus May 13—^Michigan State at East Lansing May 20—^larquette at Notre Dame May 27—^Indiana State meet at Notre Dame June 2—Central Collegiate Conference at 
Snin'aukee June 1S-I7—^N.CwVwC meet at Los Angeles 

^^tVl^lVWK l^m ^ 
 can recommend all the Yo u 

Blackhawk Hotels with com­plete confidence. Their liuturicus comfort at moderate rates plus the many conveniences of their outstand­ing service and gradous hospitality will never betray your judgment. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS LOCATED IN 
Davenport, Iowa HOTEL BLACKHAWK HOTEL MISSISSIPPI HOTEL DAVENPORT 
Mason City, lowa-
Peoria, Illinois 
HOTEL JEFFERSON 
St. Paul, Minnesota 

HOTEL ST. PAUL -HOTEL HANFORD 
Y,^>« K HOTEls 
^OilTj 

>^ '•^ 
What Is TELEVISION? 
J
UST another gadget—another form of enter­
tainment? No. It represents another step 
forward in man's master}' of time and space. It 
will enable us, for the first time, to see beyond 
the horizon. And, in addition, it will create new 
jobs for today and tomorrow. 

New products make new jobs. That's been the 
history of radio, of the automobile, of electric 
refrigerators and movie cameras and air condi­
tioning. It's been the history of hundreds of 
other devices and services that have come from 
the research laboratories of industry. That's why, 
in the last 50 years, the number of factory jobs 
in this country has doubled. And why, in addi­
tion, millions of other jobs have been created 
G-E research attd etighteeritig have saved Jor every dollar they have 
—-selling, servicing, and obtaining raw materials for the new products. 
It often takes years of costly, painstaking research to develop a laboratory experiment into a useful product ready for the public to enjoy. This has been the case with television. As long ago as 1930, Dr. E. F. W. Alexanderson and other General Electric engineers demonstrated televi­sion to a theatre audience in Schenectady, N. Y. When, after years of labor, television is ready for the public, it will bring to the people of America a new product that will add to their comfort and enjoyment, raise their living standards, and create ne%v employment for today and tomorrow. 
 the public Jront ten to one hundred dollars earned for General Electric 
GENERAL m ELECTRIC 
NEW YORK —VISIT THE "HOUSE OF MAGIC" AT THE FAIRS — SAN FRANCISCO 
v^hesterfields give me more pleasure than any cigarette I ever smoked 
A HAPPY COMBINATION OF THE WORLD'S BEST TOBACCOS 
Cbp)Tight 1939, LIGGETT S: MYERS TOBACCO CO. 






