The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
gtflh'itBjiUM 


THE NOTRE DAME 
,.c;v-\Y i/}; 

i>*i 
~ MOV '-''•-'^ 
-''^r, ^ -"^ 
IN THIS ISSUE: 

i 
i

*
 Cardinal Pacelli at N. D. 


*
 Hughes Writes About Trip 

*
 "The Man In the Iron Lung" 


I 
* Byron Kanaley Presides 
I 
lit 
* That Defeat by Pitt 
i
^ 

*
 Three Victories Open Season 

*
 Campus News 

*
 Club News 

*
 Class News 



i
I 
I I 
I •i-; I 


Vol. 15 November, 1936 No. 2g ^ 


TRADITION 
-or years it has been a tradition at Notre Dame to turn out fast, hard-hitting football teams that either win ... . or let the other team know they have been 
in a battle. 

Likewise it has been a tradition at HOTEL McALPIN ever since its establishment to see that every guest is 100% satisfied. This is assured by large, light airy rooms with plenty of closet space ... . a staff thoroughly trained in the fine art of friendly, helpful service ... . immacu­late surroundings ... . luxurious appointments ... . excellent cuisine. The finest hotel accommodations money can buy are moderately priced at HOTEL McALPIN. 
For years, too ... . HOTEL McALPIN has been head­
quarters for visiting Notre Dame Alumni. And they are 
always welcome back. 
JOHN J. WOELFLE, Manager 

RATES WITH BATH $0.50 $^.00 $^.50 
I^H per day ^^m per day ^^T per day 
single double twin-bedded 
HOTEL MCALPIN 
'Tfte Center of Convenience' 
BROADWAY AT 34th STREET NEW YORK. N.y. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 The mafoizinc is published monthly during; the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the American of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 
WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, "26 Member of Nat'l. Cadiolic 
1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1S79. All Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box SI. Notre Dame, Ind. Alumni Federation 
Vol. 15 NOVEMBER, 1936 No. 2 
Papal Secretary of State Visits Notre Dame 
Receives Honorary Degree of Doctor of Letters in Special Convo­cation in Washington Hall; Arrives in South Bend in Special Plane; Is Greeted by Many Dignitaries and by Enthusiastic Student Body. 
By William D. O'Toole, '39 

"Today we need men of character church, the campus chapel, the car­front pews of the church and as guided by principles of morality and dinal was warmly cheered by students many students as could manage to religion — men of uprightness and who lined both sides of the route. jam their way in filled every avail­men of honor. The teaching of this The University faculty, attired in able seating space. 
University so prepares them.". cap and gown, were assembled in the After a short prayer the cardinal 
With these words of praise bestowed the papal benedic­for the University of Notre tion on the student body. Dame Eugenic Cardinal Pa-Preceded by the academic celli, papal secretary of state, procession the cardinal went accepted an honorary degree to Washington hall where of doctor of letters conferr­the official degree was con­ed on him at a special con­ferred. vocation of the faculty and University officials ha d student hody in Washington planned to have the cardinal hall Sunaay afternoon, Oc­mount the steps of the -Ad­tober 25. ministration Building, deco­
rated with the papal colors Cardinal Pacelli, the first and the American and papal papal secretary of state to flags, and give the papal visit the United States, ar­blessing to the students, fac­rived at the Bendix munici­ulty and visitors assembled pal airport. South Bend, from on the quadrangle; but the ISjew York in a chartered driving rain necessitated aplane. The papal nuncio was change in plans. 

met at the port by a dele­
gation of University officials, The stage at Washington alumni and civic leaders hall was beautifully dressed headed by Rev. John P. with gold and blue velvet O'Hara, C.S.C, University curtains formin g a back­nresident; Very Eev. James ground for the cardinal's 
W. Donahue, C.S.C, superi­double-rowed cast of celeb­or-general of the Congrega­rities. A portrait of Pope tion of Holy Cross; and Pins XI hung in the center Most Rev. John F. Noll, of the rear curtain. In the D.D., bishop of the Fort front row Cardinal Pacelli Wayne diocese. In the car­was seated in the middle of dinal's party was Most Rev. the stage, flanked on either Francis J. Spellman, D.D. side by high church digni­LL.D., auxiliary bishop of taries. University oflicials Boston, Mass. Most Rev. formed a rear row. Flowers 
Joseph Ritter, D.D., bishop and palms set off the comers of Indianapolis, and Most of the stage and lent a color­Rev. Joseph Albers, D.D., ful air to the picture. 
auxiliary bishop of Cincin­
In paying tribute to Car­

nati, met Cardinal Pacelli at dinal Pacelli, Father O'Hara the University. 
said: 

A police escort led the of­"This extraordinary con­ficial cortege of motor cars vocation of the University is to the Notre Dame campus called on the feast of Christ where the motorcade was the King to pay homage to met at the entrance to the an exalted Prince of the University by the student Church, one who may very 
band. As his car proceeded properly be called the vicar 
from the entrance to the Cardinal Pacelli, Litt. D., '36, with Bishop Spellman, of the Vicar of Christ the grounds to Sacred Heart LL.D. '35, and Byron V. Kanaley, 'Oi. King. By further happy co­
34 
incidence, this day has been chosen by our Most Reverend Ordinary, Bishop Noll, for the inauguration of the national campaign against com­munism under the direction of the committee of bishops, a work very dear to the Holy Father, whose pa­ternal heart is so tried these days, as he -ivitnesses the ravaging of Chris­tendom by militant atheism. And by still further coincidence, the solemn Mass of this day in Catholic schools and colleges of the United States has been offered for peace among na­tions. It is, therefore, with extraor­dinary joy that the University wel­comes the secretarj- of state of His Holiness and marks this day as most felicitous in the 94 years of her work for Catholic education. The efforts and accomplishments of His Emi­nence in these three fields of priestly zeal and Catholic Action have been most distinguished; and we thank His Eminence for having allowed us the pri\'ilege of signalizing these ac­complishments on such a significant day. 

Promises Spiritual Help 
"Your Eminence, we salute you with affectionate ti-ibute for your own good self, and we pledge our Masses and Holy Communions and prayers in intercession to God that He may of His di\ine goodness bless and increase and multiply the good works you are accomplishing as His faithful servant. 
".4.nd through your Eminence, we salute our common father. His Holi­ness, Pope Pius XI. We beg your Eminence to say to His Holiness that 94 years ago a brave young priest came into the wilderness of Indiana with a few brothers to rear a cloister of learning that would be a shrine to the Mother of God and a home for the formation of young men in the way of virtue. A distinguished contemporarj' of Father Sorin, Car­dinal Newman, has beautifully ex­pressed the ideal our founder had in mind: 
" 'Here, then, I conceive, is the ob­ject of the Holy See and the Catho­lic Church in setting up universities; it is to reunite things which were in the beginning joined together by God, and have been put asunder by . man.' 
" 'It will not satisfy me, what sat­isfies so many, to have two indepen­dent systems, intellectual and reli­gious, going at once side by side, by a short division of labor and only ac­cidentally brought together. It will not satisfy me if religion is here and science there and young men con­verse with science all day long and lodge with religion in the evening. .. . I wish the intellect to range with the utmost freedom and reli­gion to enjoy an equal freedom but what I am stipulating is, that they should be found in one and the same The Notre Dame Alumnus 

place and exemplified in the same 
person.' 
"It is our humble effort, your Em­inence, to have this union of science and religion exemplified in the stu­dents who come to us; they, in their turn in manifesting their good will, have won for their school the title of 'The Citj' of the Blessed Sacra­ment.' It is our daily prayer that all of them and all of us may never be wanting in our allegiance of mind and heart to the Holy See." 
Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, read the citation of Cardinal Pacelli's degree: 
"The University of Notre Dame at this special convocation of the fac-
CARDIN.U, PACELLI WITH FATHER O'HARA 
ultj' on the great feast of Christ the King is most happily privileged in announcing the conferring of the de­gree of Doctor of Letters, honoris causa, on 
"A Prince of the Church, eminent by position and by achievement, an ecclesiastical statesman and diplomat who in an era of world conflict has done much toward the conciliation of warring peoples and good understand­ing between governments and the Universal Church — His Eminence, Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli, secretary of state to His Holiness, Pope Pius XI." 


Cardinal Pacelli Speaks 
Cardinal Pacelli, who speaks seven different languages eloquently, thank­ed Father O'Hara, the board of trus­tees, and the faculty and student body for the cordial welcome which he had received with a somewhat Italian ac­cent, that was, however, easily \mder­
stood. 
"As you know," he continued, "I have but a short time to spend in the United States and I can visit only a .small .number of the places I should like to see in this country. In order that I be able to come to Notre Dame it was necessary for me to employ extraordinary means. May I say that the warmth of your greeting and the cordiality with which you have welcomed me and the honor which you have conferred upon me 
November, 1936 
compensate me in the fullest measure for the efforts I have made. 
"I am glad of the opportunity to pay my respects to the members of the Order of Holy Cross. For I know vrith what sacrifices they have lab­ored to spread the word of God through the west and middle west of this great coimtry. By their example, labor, teachings and writings they have done much to foster religious belief and religious believing. 
"I have heard of the students of this University and I have heard of the colleges ^vithin the University— colleges whose quality and rating is of the highest. And I have also heard that a great nimiber of the stu­dent body, receive Holy Communion every day. The training received here stresses a two-fold duty, the duty to God and the duty to coun­try, and prepares men to go forth into the battle of life prepared men­tally and spiritually, and fortified in­tellectually. Today we need men of character guided by principles of mo­rality and religion and by their own personal responsibility for every thought they think and deed they do, men of uprightness and men of honor. The teaching of this University so prepares them. It is the teaching of this University that there is no con­flict between science and religion and no conflict between the duty to God and the duty to country. Science should go hand in hand with reli­gion. And love of country should be motivated by love of God. Only that way will real learning be had, patriotism thrive and a country en­joy peace and prosperity. 


Gives Papal Blessing 
"It is my prayer, and I am sure I am expressing the wish and prayer of the Holy Father, that Notre Dame continue in its great work of God, to thrive and to prosper. In the name of the Holy Father I -ivillingly be­stow upon you the benediction of the Holy Father, Benedicat vos omnipo­tens Deus, Pater et Films et Spiritits Sancti. Amen." 
After the papal benediction had been given the cardinal quite infor­mally stepped forward, again and drew down the heartiest applause of the afternoon when he said, 
"Now, if there is no objection on the part of your superiors," with a benignant smile in the general direc­tion of Father O'Hara, "I grant to you a holiday." 
Then, as if he had forgotten some­thing, he added: 
"—and to St. Mary's!" 
Cardinal Pacelli left directly after the special convocation for Chicago. It was planned to have him dine with the officials of the University in the dining hall on the campus, but the fact that his plaine was already an hour and a quarter lat^ deterred him from eating at Notre Dame. 

November, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 



Pope Receives Hughes In Special Audience 
Holy Father Gives Approval and Blessing io Notre Dame Fight Against Communism; Audience Ar­ranged With Co-operation of Cardinal Mundelein. 
BY ARTHUR J. HUGHES, •!!, President of the Alumni Association 
In a splendidly impressive setting of ancient and historical grandeur, stood a Notre Dame man beholding in the distance the Religious Capitol of the world, having come across the seas as the representative of all Notre Dame men to pledge allegiance to His Holiness Pope Pius XI in the cause that is perhaps closest to his heart at the moment—the combatting of the onrush of Communism. No representative of any alumni associa­tion in America had ever made a sim­ilar pilgrimage. On the morrow its objective might be consummated at a special audience with the Holy Fa­ther at his summer residence at Castel Gandolfo. 
There had been many steps en­countered and traversed since that day in far-off Chicago when Father O'Hara lent not only his sponsorship but also his able counsel and advice in the dedication of the activities of all Notre Dame men to what may be one of the greatest national and reli­gious projects that have been pre­sented to the American people in 50 years—a project, the accomplishment of which must insure the perpetua­tion of the orderly processes of gov­ernment, as well as the basic founda­tion and ideals of Christianity itself. 
There came, for instance, that mo­ment when Father O'Hara and I were ushered into the presence of Cardinal George W. Mundelein, and were offered an opportunity to ap­prise him of the objective which we had in mind and happily were priv­ileged to receive his benign approval and sincere good ^vishes for its suc­cess. 
As evidence of that loyalty that exists in the hearts of Notre Dame men for any movement that has to do with Notre Dame, there gathered in New York at a luncheon a few days later the officers of the Notre Dame Clubs of New York City and of New Jersey. The confidence and encourage­ment which were engendered at this meeting will always be a happy mem­ory, for it must be remembered after all that I was embarking on a new and unusual undertaking and that its success must depend upon the char­acter of its reception by Notre Dame, men generally. 
me farewell at the boat, I sailed for Italy. At five o'clock on the evening of September the 18th, a special messenger from the Vat­ican delivered a formal notice to me at my hotel, indicating that I would be accorded a special audience by the Holy Father the following day. The preliminary steps to bring about this audience had been arranged by Father Frederick E. Hillenbrand, of the archdiocese of Chicago, and Brother Norbert, of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, both of whom gave me the greatest of assistance and were entirely responsible for the successful accomplishment of my trip. 
Father Hillenbrand is the rector of Colegio S. Maria Del Lago, the fine house of studies established by Cardinal Mundelein in Home for the priests of the archdiocese of Chicago, and I found him to be one of the most intelligently co-operative men 
that it has been my pleasure to meet. It seems to me that the sim shone much more brightly on Saturday morning, September the 19th, as Fa­ther Hillenbrand and I made our way in our car to Castel Gandolfo some 16 miles outside the walls of Home along the Via Appia Nuova. 
During the several days preceding our audience with the Holy Father there had been furnished to him com­plete details of our plan—^the plan of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion — constructively and conserva­tively formulating public thought and opinion against the forces of Communism. It was a joy then to Father Hillenbrand and myself, just prior to our audience, to have the personal secretary to the Holy Father come to us and tell us that His Holi­ness had carefully examined the data previously furnished and was entirely 
(Continued on Pase 38) 
On the following day, September 

FATHER HILLENBRAND AND PRESIDENT HUGHES WITH A SWISS GUARD 
the 5th, with Father O'Hara bidding 
Many Alumni at 


Games 
First Three at Home Attract Large Number 
The Alumni Office register shows the following as being among those present for the first football combats of the season: 
CARNEGIE TECH 
James S. Devlin, '10, Pittsburgh; 

Frank Hayes, '14, Anaheim, Califor­
nia; Arthur C. Weinrich, '19, Chica­
go; Kobert Neydon, '31, Detroit; 
Ralph F. Else, '34, Buffalo, New 
York; Otis Winchester, '30, Cleveland, 
John Moraii, '25, Denver; Robert G. 
Quinn, '23, jMonclair, New Jersey; 
Tom Cannon, '33, Muncie, Indiana; 
John Stoeckley, '25, Chicago; Bud 
McNichols, '36, Chicago; Bill Promm, 
'34, Racine, Wisconsin; Ed O'Neill, 
'26, Jackson, Michigan; Al Stepan, 
'31, Chicago; Frank Ready, '30, Mon­
roe, Michigan. 
WASHINGTON 
J. N. Gelson, '26, New York City; George Maj^pole, '03, Chicago; Robert Regan, '24, Madison, Wisconsin; Jack Adams, '26, New York City; Firmin Fusz, '25, St. Louis; Bud Stillman, '24, Detroit; G. Alvarez Morphy, '31, Mexico City, Mexico; Tom Oakes, '31, Chicago. 
WISCONSIN 
Joseph LenUian, '29, New York City; Claud Pitsenberger, '26, India­napolis; Clinton H. Watson, '32, Pon­tiac, Michigan; W. N. Bosler, ex. '04, Louisville; Dan O'Connor, '05, Chica­go; John Heysvood, '36, New Rich­mond, Wis.; Leo Heringer, '24; Dr. Henry B. Asman, '32, Louisville; Pierre V. Angermeier, '31, Louisville; 
J. Willard Jones, '25, Dixon, 111.; Wil­liam L. Travis, '27, Hammond, Indi­ana; Arthur J. Hughes, '11, Chicago; Arthur J. Kane, '31, Shreveport, Louisiana; Andrew Aman, Jr., '30, Dayton, Ohio; William 51. Carroll, 
•15, Woodstock, 111.; Ed W. Gould, '23, Chicago; J. P. O'SIeara, '35, Mil­waukee; W. E. Shea, '23, Dayton, Ohio; Eugene A. Mayl, '24, Dayton, Ohio; John O'Donnell, '26, Maysville, Kentucky; Charles E. Rohr, '30, Cleveland; Tony Gonzales, '25, Ma­nila, P. I.; George Maypole, '03, Chi­cago; Tom Feely, '32, Joliet, 111.; Don Wise, '33, Joliet; Paul Fogarty, '17, Chicago; Henry Wurzer, '25, Daven­port, Iowa; John Campbell, '26, Al­bany, New York; Bud Stillman, '24, Detroit; Tom Thompson, '35, Ann Arbor, Michigan; Bernard Heffeman, '18, Washington, D. C ; George De­metrio, '35, Chicago; Jim Cronin, '35, Chicago; Tom Oakes, '31, Chicago; Bert Maloney, '31, Milwaukee; Tom LaLonde, '35, Evanston, 111. 
FATHER GILLIS GIVES LEQURES 
The Reverend James Martin Gillis, 
C. S. P. of New York City, nation­ally known author, and editor of the Catholic World, gave a series of five lectures in Washington hall on the campus from October 19 to 23, m­clusivc. 
The program of lectures for the week was: 
Monday, October 19, "A New Ap­proach to Apologetics;" Tuesday, October 20, "God; the Modern Mean­ing of the Word;" Wednesday, Octo­ber 21, "Religion; The Old Concept and the New;" Thursday, October 22, "Faith; After a Century of Science"; and Friday, October 23, "Morality; The New Style." 

Whn e the condition of the University is, in general, very satisfactory, there is urgent need for expansion in certain departments, and for more satisfactory accommodations in some of our activities. Most of these items constitute txtraordinary expenses, and caimot fall within the Uni­versity budget We continue this year the practice of publishing from time to time some of these needs. 
It is still th: judgment of the University Council that living facilities should not be increased, and that any resident facilities provided for students should be only in the way of substituting for existing outworn buildings. While our present very urgent need for more classrooms and laboratories will be partially met when the Biology Building is opened, in February, 1937, there are growing needs in other departments which promise immediate expansion. 
CMee9s 
1.
 A Freshman hall, to replace the temporary Freshman Hall, a stucco building erected in 1923 ^320,000 

2.
 A Chemistry building (the present structure can meet only 40 per cent of our present needs.) 450,000 

3.
 A donation to defray the cost of a new Biology Building 400,000 

4.
 A bacteriological laboratory uni^ equipped for research with germ-free animals 60,000 

5.
 For the Department of Electrical Engineering. Two 10 K.W. 125 volt DC generators 300 One motor generator set of 25 K.W. capacity. 800 One oscillograph . 900 Measuring instruments 400 


The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
1.
 From the estate of the late Frank B. Phillips, to establish the Thomas E. Walsh, Daniel E. Hudson, and John W. Cavanaugh Scholarship Fimds, approximately. ^320,000 

2.
 From Gerald Ryan, Joseph Ryan, Maty T. Ryan, Bemice Ryan, Florence Morgan, and Genevieve Langan, to estab­lish the Roger Ryan Memorial Scholarship for the benefit of students who suffer physical handicaps 1,000 


From Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Lay Trustee, for the Charles 
L. O'Donnell Scholarship in Apologerics : 1,000 

/J^^ 9^ ^'CC^A.^JC­
November, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER, '37 
CAMPUS NOTES 
SOPH COTILLION With a midnight grand march as one of the high spots Notre Dame officially opened the University's social season with the traditional Sophomore Cotillion. Four hundred and fifty couples danced to the music of Carlton Kelsey and his Hollywood oixhestra. We were there and had a gi-and time principally because the Sophomore Class President, Joseph McDermott, was thoughtful enough to choose John Mulderig, of Auburn, New York, as general chairman. Mr. Mulderig, perhaps unfortunately for him, happens to look a great deal like us with the result that we served as a sort of co-chainnan without having had to do any of the work. A pho­tographer blasted away at four paces. Society editors asked us to give the names of various of our friends in attendance and describe^ the gowns worn by their partners. AVe gave Chairman Mulderig one break, how­ever. We let him lead the grand march. 
BABY BREEN BORN Francis "Chub" Breen, '23, Lake-ville, Indiana, who is now taking law at the University, spent the fourth month anniversary of the birth of his daughter, Louise Mar­garet, by taking snapshots of the child posed betiveen two of his law books. "Cases on Wills" and "Cases on Torts." The reason? Last June third, besides being one of the days for final examinations, was the date of Louise Margaret's entry into the world. Chub, after being up all night awaiting her arrival, was forced to leave the hospital to take his "Wills" exam. Immediately after the exam he whirled back to the hospital just in time to hear "It's a girl," then dashed back to the University to do or die under an inquisition on "Torts." Haggard, eyes red-rimmed from lack of sleep and nervous strain, Breen staggered from the examination room. Coming down the corridor was one of his professors, bundles of examination papers under the latter's arms. Breen remembered the cigars he had purchased to celebrate baby Breen's birth. 
"Here, professor," he croaked, "have a cigar." 
The professor frowned coldly and moved on. "Bad ethics, Breen," he flung over his shoulder, "Very bad ethics." 
HEIL HOCHREITER Franklyn Hochreiter, dynamic '35 correspondent, is back on the cam­pus after a year's sojourn at Colum­bia university. His first extra-curric­ular activity involved reaching into the gi-ab bag of his acquaintances and discovering that the star of a show playing in South Bend was an old school chum. As a result Hoch piloted the entire troupe about the campus, airily pointing out various spots of interest on the campus with the aid of a huge, black cigar. With all this excitement going on it's no wonder that next day bulletins were posted all over the campus beginning, "Perepective candidates for baseball please report. . . ." 
• 

THE MONTH IN BRIEF Pat Tofuri, '37, enjoyed the dubi­ous distinction of being the iniinna­ry's only inmate during the Carnegie Tech game . . . Topped only by Santa Claus, Indiana, Notre Dame's post office handles 220,000 pounds of letters annually, more than any other post office of its size in the state. . . "Who's Who in America for 1936-37" includes many Notre Dame represent­atives . . . Among those listed directly connected with the University ai'o President Father O'Hara, Reverend James A. Burns, C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Order; Eev. J. L. Carrico, director of studies; Eev. Charles C. Miltner, dean of the col­lege of Arts and Letters; Rev. Fran­cis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science; Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law; and Eev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C.S.C, and W. L. Benitz, faculty members, . . . Phillip Trexler, '34, chief assist­ant in the bacteriological laboratories, has been sent to Pittsburgh to do re­search . . . John J. Farabaugh, '37, South Bend, Indiana, has been made a member of the South Bend Pilot's club. . . . 
• 

VILLAGERS ACTIVE 
The Villagers, largest campus club made up of off-campus students, plan a busy year under the direction of President Ted Prekowitz, a first year law student... St. Mary's has opened a new bacteriological laboratory . . . Frank Wallace, '23, in his latest SatEvePost serial uses a situation from last year's Pitt game .. . In that game Quarterback Wally From-hart faded with three Pitt blockers and stalled them long enough to let one of his team mates come up from behind to make the tackle . . . But since Frank is writing fiction he probably felt that fending off three blockers would sound exaggerated so in his story he eliminates one of them. . . 
• LESS HOME WORK HERE According to Arthur and George Haas, aged 10 and 11, sons of Pro­fessor Arthur Haas, Vienna physicist now teaching here, there is less home work to do in America than in Aus­tria. . . The La Eaza club, organiza­tion of Spanish speaking students at­tending the University, had a Mass said for the rebels in Spain, with Father O'Hara as celebrant .. . A lie detector was demonstrated at St. Mary's by officers of the Indiana State police . . . 
ALL STATES REPRESENTED All forty-eight states and twelve foreign countries are represented in this year's eni-oUment . . . For the first time since 1932, Nevada has a student in attendance .. . He is Thomas McKenna, of Carlin, a Fresh­man in Arts and Letters . . . New York leads the states with 473 stu­dents, followed by Illinois with 441 . . . Indiana ranks third with 397 . . . Principal guest lecturer of the month was the Eev. James Martin Gillis, C. S. P., outstanding Catholic author and editor of the Catholic World . . . Father Gillis gave five lectures in Washington Hall . . . Eosary College broadcasted a dra­matic sketch dealing with incidents in the life of the late Eev. Julius A. Nieuwiand, C. S. C. . . . St. Mary's has established its own riding stables with fifteen gee-gees — The S. A. C. according to present plans, will con­tinue sponsoring Saturday night dances even after the football sea­son . . . They have proven to be very popular. . . . The Scholastic, campus news weekly, now features a short story in each issue. . . 
STUDENTS TO ARMY GAME The Army game in New York was selected as the student trip in a poll taken of the student body and the choice was approved by the Univer­sity. The gang will leave South Bend Friday afternoon and return Mon­day morning in time for classes. They'll stay over Saturday night in New York. . . The,"Letters to the Editor" boys have been busier than ever deluging the downtown papers since this is an election year. 
Ryan Fund Is Started 
Will Aid Students Physically Handicapped 

By a gift of $1,000 the family of Roger Murray Ryan, B.S. Pharmacy 1924, has launched a fund to be known as the Roger Ryan Memorial Fund, commemorating their brother who died last Summer. 
Roger was physically handicapped, as his classmates will remember, and the fund established, together with additional gifts from family or out­side sources, will be used to aid stu­dents at the University similarly handicapped physically. 
In a beautiful letter to Father O'Hara, Roger's brothers and sisters express their attitude: 
"Roger received so much happiness from his attendance at Notre Dame that we ascribe the serenity of his tolerance with life, despite his known physical handicaps, to those contacts and associations. 
"We are a family of no great means, but as we were willing and glad to devote a portion to his wel­fare in life, we are desirous of con­tinuing, as far as we are able, to keep his memoiy verdant and at the same time help some boys of similar earnestness. ... " 
It is difficult to conceive a more perfect form of memorial. 
This generous gift from the family will undoubtedly be augmented by gifts from those to whom the merits of the Fund are obviousi}' appealing. The Universitj' is given the privilege of designating the disposition of the income from the principal fund among that group of boys who annu­ally come to Notre Dame, as Roger did, to advance themselves material­ly, but to so much a larger degree, in their handicap, spiritually. 
FRED AMiSON DIES 

Frederick J. Amison, 51 years old, manager of the laundry and cleaning plant at Notre Dame for nine years, died suddenly in South Bend on Oc­tober 21. The victim of a heart at­tack, he was found dead in his parked car on West Washington Street. 
Suriviving are Mrs. Amison and a daughter in South Bend and four sis­ters and three brothers in England. The solemn funeral Mass was in Sa­cred Heart Church on the campus on October 24. Rev. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was the celebrant, assist­ed by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, and Rev. 
BULLETIN FOR LAWYERS 

A directory of the Notre Dame alumni engaged in the practice of law is being prepared. All those Notre Dame men who were omitted from the similar directory of Decem­ber, 1935, or who have since engaged in the practice of law, are urged to send name, home and office addresses, and 6rm name, "with telephone nuai­bers, to the Alumni Office at once. 
The directory lists Notre Dame men practicing law, whether or not they attended the Notre Dame college of law. 
INTERVIEWS OLDEST ALUMNUS 
Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, '88, enjoyed a visit with Eber B. Gambee, A.B. '73, A.M. '76, 1811 
N.W. Couch Street, Portland, Ore­gon, while Father Bums was visit­ing the University of Portland in October. 
Mr. Gambee is the oldest living alumnus of the University, and Fa­ther Bums says that he is a most in­teresting and active man of 84, living with Mrs. Gambee in Portland, where three sons attended the Holy Cross college there, and two of these are now leading surgeons in the city. 
In recalling the Notre Dame of 68 years ago, Mr. Gambee told Father Bums that the only buildings here then that remain now are the Old College, the Old Infirmary, and the little Porter's Lodge. The old Church stood between the present Church and Main Building, but the new Church was begun while Mr. Gambee was a Sophomore. 
Father Corby was president of the University, and among the faculty members Mr. Gambee recalls were Father J. P. O'Connell, and the lay­men. Professors Stace, Lyons and Ivers. 
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C.S.C, was a fellow student. 
Mr. Gambee came here from Adrian, Michigan. He was a non-Catholic, but years later was con­verted through the influence of Rev. 
P. P. Cooney, C.S.C, famous Civil War chaplain. Today, at 84, he at­tends Mass daily. 
The ALUSINUS was delighted to learn through Father Bums of his visit with Mr. Gambee, who retains many memories of Notre Dame through a collection of unusually well preserved pictures. 
John Reddington, C.S.C, superinten­dent of maintenance. 
Fred came to Notre Dame after wide experience in laundry work in this country and Canada. His ability, winning personality and co-operative spirit won for him a wide circle of friends and admirers on the campus. His death was especially mourned by the Sisters and the employees in the laundry who had best known his generosity and kindliness. 
POPE RECEIVES HUGHES 
(Continued from PaKe 35) 

conversant with the features of our program. 
On our way to the room where we would await the Holy Father, we stood for an instant in the Throne Room, where only a few fleeting hours before several hundred bishops and priests and members of the laity, all refuges from the horrible carnage in Spain, had been welcomed by the Holy Father in an address that had been broadcast across the seas and the continents and had offered an un­answerable challenge to all of those subversive forces which are endeav­oring to bring about the destruction of every Christian tenet and ideal and the abolishment of la^vful gov­ernment and orderly authority. 
How timely then it was that Notre Dame men should apprise the Holy Father through the humble instru­mentality of one of their number that they would join him in his endeavor to stem the tide of this onrushing cataclysm. It was a satisfaction, in­deed, to observe that even great men like the Holy Father himself may be genuinely encouraged and may find unlimited satisfatcion in receiving offers of help and cooperation from even the humblest among us. 
The Holy Father not only gave his approval to our undertaking, but what is far more important, he be­stowed upon it his blessing and his hope for its success. 
There flashed through my mind as I came away the thought that if it were only possible financially, it would be a most wonderful tribute to the Holy Father if our national association could send its newly elected president each year to Rome on such an official pilgrimage, even though this first one was taken with­out any expense to the association. 
On October the 8th I landed in New York, and that evening the Notre Dame Club of New York City welcomed me back to the homeland. This fine gathering was followed by similar ones held by the Notre Dame Clubs of Philadelphia and Washing­ton, all of which afforded me the op­portimity of meeting again friends of long years standing—Hugh O'Don­nell, Joe Byrne, John Neeson, Jim Hayes—all these and many others in those various meetings being the stal­wart sons of the Notre Dame we love and revere so much. 
In the foregoing I have spoken much about our plan, but I have withheld everysvhere discussing in any detail any of its features. The December edition of the ALUMNUS magazine will carry to you the de­tails of this plan, and it is most sin­cerely hoped that there may be an almost instant response to the call that will then be made for action and co-operation by Notre Dame men everywhere. 
/ / The Man In The Iron Lung -Fred Snite 
(Reprinted from Caravan, Magazine" of the Far East, for July, 1936) 
(Editors' note: The heroic story of Fred Snite, '35, is well knoivn to many alumni and to all present stu­dents. But nowhere in print, as far as the, Editors are aware, has it been told so understandingly as in this ar­ticle from CARAVAN. TT'e reprint the article as an inspiration to all Notre Dame men. We are happy to report at the same time that Fred has made decided progress during the Summer; his family begs renewed prayers that he may be brought home to Chicago soon.) 
On a cot in the Hockefeller Hos­pital in Peking a handsome young American college graduate, only son of a business leader, is imprisoned in a metal cylinder which enables him to breathe by artificial respiration. For more than two months he has lain there, victim of the paralyzing Infantile Paralysis germ. Without that mechanical lung he would die in a few minutes, for his nerves and muscles below, the neck are com­pletely dead. They call the apparatus the Iron Lung, product of an Amer­ican manufacturing company, whose operations already have saved a num­ber of lives. Unwilling as they were at first to believe that the •v-ictim could hope to survive. Rockefeller Hospital doctors now hold out a lively hope for eventual recovery. The story of this fearful stroke, of the series of coincidences that led up to its occurrence, and finally of the ill­ness occurring within reach of the only hospital in the Far East to have the Iron Lung in its battery of sci­entific equipment, is one of the dra­matic events of modem medical his­tory. 
Last Autumn Frederick Snite, heir of a Chicago financial organizer (head of the Local Loan Company with offices from New York to San Francisco) graduated from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. His parents decided to take him on a tour of the world before he started business in the loan company's office. The party was to include Miss Mary Loretto, the only daughter. Included, too, was Terence Dillon, classmate and fellow-graduate of young Snite. 
Passage was booked on the C.P.R. liner Empress of Britain which sailed from New York on January 7th. The itinerary was to include the Medi­terranean Sea, but owing to the Italo-Abyssinian war and possible risks, the 
Fred Snite, '35, Lies in Peking, China, Bravely Fighting Infantile Paralysis. 
By Kenneth Drummond 

steamship company diverted the Em­press to a course around Africa, touching at Capetown and other ports, on to Bombay. There the pas­sengers left ship and were carried across India by train. The Empress went around and picked up the tour­ists at Calcutta. From there the route laj' to Malay Straits, Penang, Singapore, Hongkong , Shanghai, Chinwangtao (nearest port to Pe­king). 
Take Plane to Peking 

On the voyage young Snite and Dillon had the time of their lives— deck tennis and other athletics, dancing at night, sightseeing at the ports of call. At Shanghai Snite asked his father's permission to Ry on to Peking, the parents going on by boat to Chinwangtao, and then overland to the old capital of China. On the day previous to the flight the millionaire's son complained of feel­ing unwell. His neck muscles were stiff; he was feverish. But he rose early in the morning, went off to Mass with Dillon, and then took the big Douglas plane with several other passengei-s. The plane flew unusual­ly high, 13,000 feet. Snite continued to complain; a glass of water fell from his nerveless fingers. 
Immediately on arival and registry at the Peking hotel, Dillon called in a local doctor, who diagnosed the case, in the absence of other mani­fest symptoms, as probably a cold. He prescribed a cathartic. Then the rest of the party arrived by train, and the ship's doctor also had a look at the young man. He, too, could find nothing alarming in Snite's con­dition. 
Some inner uneasiness prompted Snite and Dillon to take additional medical advice. They went up to the American Embassy and consulted the 
U. S. Marines doctor. After a quick examination the medical officer took Dillon aside and told him his friend was in a serious condition. He should be in the hospital at once. Snite was ordered back to the hotel, and to bed. Meanwhile the American M. O. got the hospital superintendent on the telephone and asked that the usual admission formalities be cleared away as an emergency case was coming along. Whatever else he said prompt­ed the Rockefeller staff to send an ambulance to the hotel on which all the attendants wore masks. They 
rapidly placed Snite on a stretcher 
and avoiding the public elevator car­
ried the stricken youth down a back 
way. 
In the Peking Union Medical Col­lege, the name usually is shortened to P.U.M.C. (official title of the Rock­efeller institute) the case was taken over by Dr. Falkner, an expert in the treatment of Infantine Paralysis, for this was the diagnosis communicated to him by the guard doctor. That night the paralysis spread so rapidly that Snite could not move hand nor foot. His breathing was done with the greatest difficulty. "I can breathe best when I whistle" he said with grim humor, pursing his lips. Soon Snite was in danger of suffocation, and Dr. Falkner called for the Iron Lung. 
That was March 30th. In mid-June Snite is still in the contrivance, com­pletely helpless, quite unable to breathe without the aid of this me­chanical device. 
Placed in Artiltcia] Respirator 

The artificial respirator is an affair shaped like a huge cylinder which fits over the body of the patient, completely enclosing his trunk from neck to waist. A rubber collar fits snugly about the neck. Another rub­ber band clasps his middle. Thi-re are similar air-tight bands where the arms come out of the cylinder. At­tached to the cylinder is a pumping motor, timed to correspond with the normal human respiration. With one action of the motor all the air inside the cylinder is extracted, and as the vacuum is created the patient's chest is expanded. With the mechanical expansion, ordinarily forced by the action of the diaphragm, air is drawn into the lungs. -Another turn of the motor and the air is allowed to enter the cylinder again. This permits the chest walls to fall back into the na­tural position, and air is forced from the lungs. 
Minute after minute and hour after hour for more than two months the motor has performed its unfail­ing duty, doing Frederick's breathing for him. From the neck up young Snite is normal; he can talk, hear, see, swallow and, for the blessing of a watching mother, smBe. 
When Snite was installed in his automatic Inng the father asked the doctors for a frank opinion. They told him there was very little chance of survival. The family had better prepare for the -n-orst. All but one: a Chinese woman doctor named Miss Li, just on the eve of graduation, an­nounced herself in the most optimis­tic terms. Whether she spoke from scientific knowledge or with the hu­mane idea of keeping the parents' courage up, at least her cheerful out­look served to hearten the anxious watchers. 
"What would happen if another similar patient was brought in?" the boy's father asked. It was made plain to him that this was the only machine of its kind in Asia; first come iirst saved. 
"We'll soon remedy that," said the Chicago financier. He sat down and wrote a cable to his Chicago ofiice ordering a second Iron Lung to be sent to the P.U.M.C. at his expense. To hasten its arrival, he ordered his financial secretary, Mr. John Murphy, to bring it along himself to be ready for a long stay, taking the burden of business off the loan man's shoulders. 
Then the father sat down along­side his son's bed. 
"Freddy," he said, "this is a fight. Your fight and our fight. We'll all do our part, and you do yours. Make up your mind to get well if it's God's will." 
"Well," Fred gasped with a grin, "I guess it's a fight then. Let's go." 
Forthwith the father arranged for extra nurses. He found the splendid staff and equipment of the great hos­pital, an institution without peer in Asia, at his disposal. Extra precau-' tions were taken to prevent failure of the machinery until the second Lung arrived from America. The father hunted around and found in 
f^ 
% 
Tientsin an air-conditioned system that had been ordered for a business house and never used. This he had installed against the coming of a hot Peking summer. Fred will have cool, clean fresh air to help him in the bat­tle for life. 
Meanwhile George Spengler, known to the family, a resident of Peking, owner of the most modem house in the cit}% a great and gorgeous affair, was about to go on leave. 
"The house is yours," he said to Snite, and the family moved in, but taking turns watching at the bedside while a special telephone connected the hospital with the house in case of a crisis. A routine of life was es­tablished. Watch, work and pray was the routine. 
The Suites are ardent Catholics. They put trust in their religion in this emergency. Daily Mass and Communion for father, mother and daughter is the rule, and young Dil­lon joined in the period of prayer. Lent was stricter than ever for them. Prayers were offered continuously, to supplement the watching and working of scientists. Secretary Mur­phy joined the daily pilgrims to St. Michael's church in the Legation Quarter. 
No^v the doctors have offered new hope. They say there is an improve­ment; not much, but some. They continue their physio-therapy treat­ment with a brighter outlook. Young Snite seems to be responding to the massage. Although he remains para­lyzed, there is detected an ability to breathe a little. Doctors and nurses are able to take off the Iron Lung for three minutes at a time for treat­ment and cleaning of the patient. And when they do, the operation is 
of €L D TIMEI2X 
CALLING ALL MONOGRAM MEN of 1900 to 1905 back to the campus on November 20 and 21. 
Attend the Northwestern - Notre Dame game as honored guests of the University — including side-line seats at game, Reunion Dinner in Dining Hall Friday evening, and special Monogram Club Luncheon Saturday noon. 
Reservations to this REUNION have already been made by Lou (Red) Salmon, Bobby Lynch, Byron Kanaley, Bill Draper, Mike Fansler, Lawrence McNerney, and Joe Sullivan. 
Coach Layden, the Monogram Club Officers and the Athletic Board count on you to make this OLD TIMERS' REUNION a huge and enjoyable success. 
John Eggeman Ti}rites, *'Tbe Reunion held last year loas a 
great success and immcnseH appreciated by the old letter men." 
I 0or fuHker dtUlL aui fi>ralluraiue i/ati'll Ic ihare, wriU DANIEL J. 
a marvel of coordination. It takes eleven persons to remove and restore the equipment and incidentally to at­tend to the young patient. Each one knows precisely what to do and there is never a hitch in this opera­tion against time. Deadened dia­phragm muscles are forced almost by sheer will power to perform their function under the greatest difficulty, in those few moments of breathless haste; once back again in his cylin­der Frederick breathes freely and the smile once more replaces the strained and frightened look. 
In the height of this desperate trial, another burden was added to patient and family. Dr. Falkner, the Infantile Paralysis specialist, took ill of pneumonia. The case had to be taken over by other doctors. By this time, however, the routine had been well established, and everyone knew what to do. In emergencies the symptoms were described to Dr. Falk­ner, himself fighting for his life, and he prescribed the necessary treat­ments. Now Dr. Falkner is conva­lescent, and it will be some three weeks before he is strong enough to take complete charge again. 
Most confident and cheerful of the doleful party is Frederick himself. Helpless though he is, and sensitive of his parents', sister's and friends' anxiety, he has set himself to work. Lying there in the embrace of the Iron Lung he has begun to study the Chinese language. 
"When I get out of this I'll be able to speak the lingo," he says, and al­ready he can and does exchange man­darin back chat with nurses and doc­tors. 
"The fight is getting along," he says. "We'll win yet." 
Cfdaiiional Ovenls 
T 

1. Pep Meeting in Gym Friday, 
7:30 P.M. 
2.
 Smoker in South Bend Fri­day, 9:00 P. M. as guesb of Notre Dame Club of St. Jo­seph Valley. 

3.
 Presentation program in Stadium Saturday between halves. 


 O'CONNCB* Gtainmm, 013 '^imcn GoitmiUee. 
10 S. LA SALLE ST.,'CHICAGO, 
Byron Kanaley Analyzes N. D- for N.C.A.F. 
Presides At Meeting of Chicago Chapter At Which Pres­ident Hughes, Father O'Hara and Monsignor Kealy, Among Others, Speak; Dwells On History of University. 
(Editors' note: The following in­troductions, embodying so much of the real spirit of Notre Dame men, were delivered by Byron V. Kanaley, '04, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, at the first Fall meeting of the Chicago chapter of the National Catholic Alumni Federation on October 21. Arthur J. Hughes, '11, president of the Alumni Association, tvas the prin­cipal speaker on this occasion. Fa­ther O'Hara and Monsignor Kealy spoke briefly.) 
The alumni of the University of Notre Dame are deeply appreciative that for this occasion, the first meet­ing of the year of the Chicago Chap­ter of the National Catholic Alumni Federation, to discuss a grave prob­lem that has been facing the world, and is now facing America—Com­munism—that the president of the National Alumni Association of Notre Dame, should be invited to discuss this very important subject and to convey to us the message of the Holy Father, Pope Pius XI, to Notre Dame alumni on Communism. 
Inasmuch as Notre Dame alumni have been given this evening's pro­gram, I may be pardoned for speak­ing for a few moments a6out Notre Dame. 
Mr. Arthur Hughes, the President of our National Association, has re­cently returned from Rome, where, as the representative of Notre Dame alumni throughout the world, he con­veyed to his Holiness the pledge of Notre Dame men to fight the scourge of Communism, he had an audience with Pope Pius XI and from his Holi­ness brings a message which he will convey to you tonight. 
Communism cannot be strong where Democracy thrives and where the teachings of the Catholic Church prevail. The teachings of all Cath­olic universities and colleges are a great bulwark against Communism. One of the great bulwarks is the University which has been honored' by your invitation tonight, for there Democracy exists almost in its purest form. It is the largest boarding school in the world, with its 3,000 boys drawn from 12 foreign coun­tries and from every state- in the Uriion-^from-almost every n'ational­iiy> every walk and station of life, a place where none is greater than his fellow-man except upon his per­sonal merit. 
Notre Dame has a tradition almost a century old of Democracy, a tradi­tion that embodies the teachings and the precept and the example of the Divine Founder of Christianity and of Democracy itself, a tradition nur­tured and strengthened and made beautiful by the labors and lives of the Fathers of Holy Cross. 
In my 36 years of acquaintance of and respect and affection for, that great University, of which I am so proud to be a son, I have never known of any of its priesthood or brotherhood from the highest priestly office to the humblest member of the brothers—the brothers who do such a beautiful work and are so little known to the world at large—I say I have never known any of these men who did not walk humbly in the ser­vice of man and humbly in the path of God. If I were ever to character­ize Notre Dame with a single word that w^ord would be humility, and where there is true humility in God's service there can never be room in America for any of the "isms" that threaten us today. It is the arro­gance of man's thought, «»ibridled, HJilicensed, j|7ianchored, joigovemed 
BYKON V. KANALEY, 'Oi 

by the eternal verities of Catholic teachings, and Catholic thought, that is threatening the very existence of Democracy as we know it, that is threatening our family life, that is threatening our Christian life. 
In part, to Catholic institutions of learning like ours and yours, to the teachings of the Catholic Church, must America look, and does look, for help in conquering of this men­ace of Communism. 
You can well judge the future from the past. When Sorin built the first little log school building about a century ago on the shore of St. Mary's Lake in the wilderness of In­diana there was made the beginning of an institution that has served America nobly and well and always, and that will serve her again in this present hour of America's threatened peril. 
A University that was practically closed in the dark hours of the Civil War because nearly all her priests and brothers and students had en­listed in the service of this country; a University that had the first, and as far as I know has today the only. Grand Army post among the colleges of this country; upon whose campus tonight there are but two statues other than those of purely religious significance: Sorin, the founder, who practically, closed the doors of the school he loved so well that all its man power could go forth for the de­fense of their country, and the. other Corby of Gettysburg; the University whose entrance doors to the college church have engraved around them the names of her boys who gave up their lives in the late war; a Univer­sity dedicated to Christian education of our youth, and devoted to the ser­vice of Our Lady who reigns in gentle majesty and gloiy from the summit of the Golden Dome pointing heavenward the thoughts and daily activities of her boys. I say it is fitting, and expected, that that Uni­versity would be among the first to warn and prepare for this fight on Communism which threaten' our na­tional, our family, our Christian life. 
The sons of Notre Dame are proud and deeply appreciative of this invi­tation and opportunity tonight. 
I introduce and present to yon Mr. Arthur J. Hughes, President of the National Alumni AJssociation of Notre 
(Continued on Paffe €2) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1936 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 
» » » 

Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
Notre Dame, 0; Pitt, 26 

Now about this Pitt game—there's no need to throw in the towel for the rest of the season. They say history repeats itself, and, while Pitt won by 26 to 0 (which was the worst defeat Notre Dame has taken in 11 years) the 1925 teani lost, 27 to 0, to Army, and wound up that year T\ith a rec­ord of seven \'ictories, two defeats, and a tie. Army won in the fourth game of the season after the Irish had won three games, which was the setting October 24 when the prowl­ing Panther capitalized on its own power and Notre Dame over-anxiety to win one of the hardest played games of recent years. 
And those of you who didn't see the game may rest assured that your 1936 representatives are dead game. They, as well as the Pitts, were being knocked out right and left. It took nearly three hours to play the game because of the many recess periods for injured players, but the boys got right up and went back to work. 
The story of the game itself is the story of Marshall Goldberg, Pitt Sophomore halfback. Coach Suther­land wasn't any too sure of this one. He changed his lineup, it seemed, every half hour for two days before the game. Pitt wasn't any too sure, either, after having taken a 7 to 0 beating at Duquesne's hands a week earlier. 
The first quarter was a stand-off, and early in the second period Notre Dame got its first real break. Gold­berg's quick kick went out of bounds on Notre Dame's 50-yard line. Pre­vious to this the Irish, who had re­ceived the kickoff, had been bottled up in their own territory. Pitt was penalized 5 yards for offsides. Then Bob Wilke, straining for extra yard­age and hit hard, committed the first of seven fumbles of which the Irish 
VIC WOJCIHOVSKI 

Notre Dame-has not sold any of its broadcasting rights for any game. Reports to the contrary have appar­ently been widely circulated in some sections of the country, according to information reaching the University. 
—^ivho had hobbled only si.v times in three previous games—^were to be guilty. Pitt recovered, and, after an exchange of kicks, marched to a touchdo^vn, Goldberg and Harold Stebbins featuring the inarch. Bill Stapulis, fullback, crashed over from the 2-yard line for the touchdown. Prank Souchak adding the placement. 
Goldberg gave the rest of the team confidence. As the game wore on, Notre Dame pressed more and more, and Pitt gained in poise and sure­ness. But in this game the Fighting Irish gained experience that they could not get in practice, despite El­mer Layden's frequent scrimmages under game conditions. 
Early in the third quarter Stapu­lis tossed a short pass to Hoffman, sub end, who raced 44 yards to a touchdown. 
Pitt IntercepU Pass 

The third touchdown followed a Notre Dame drive of 63 yards to Pitt's 14-yard line, where a pass caught out of bounds and another into the end zone ended the march. Acting Captain Bobby LaRue imme­diately ran 39 yards, and shortly later a 15-yard penalty on the Irish put the ball on the 14-yard line. Six plays later Goldberg went over for the score, Souchak again adding the placement. 
The game could have ended this way, but with the Irish in possession 
• of the ball, only a couple of minutes left to play, and the cause hopelessly lost. Coach Layden sent in several subs. Johnny Wood, Pitt halfback, intercepted a Notre Dame pass and returned 45 yards behind' quickly forming and effective interference, for the touchdown. 
This was the first big test for most of Elmer's boys and, while every one of them fought like a demon, Pitt's greater experience,' power, weight, and, in the later stages of the game, confidence, was too much for them. 
If you haevn't done so already, you can mark Larry Danbom down as a big league fullback. He made tackles all over the field, once laying Gold­berg out on a hard open field tackle. Goldberg proved his greatness by coming back stronger than ever after a short rest. 
Fred Mundee also did a surprising­ly fine job of backing up the line, while Captain John Lautar and Joe Kuharich did splendid work at guards. Joe Zwers, right end, did a magnificent job, particularly in the first half. 
Joe O'Neill not only played a fine game at left end, but he averaged some 45 yards on his eight punts, de­spite the fact that one 55-yard boot was called back because of offsides. 
The tackles, at whom the brunt of Pitt's crushing power was aimed, dis­ported themselves as well as any hu­man beings could standing up against 
BOB WILKE 

a juggernaut. Bill Steinkemper, -4rt Oronin, Whitey Beinor, and Paul Kell were towers of strength on de­fense, but they were facing a red hot football team which threw not one but several low-running, battering blockers at them time and again. Each of the four was laid out at least once, but, like the rest they came back for more. 
As predicted before, the experi­ence gained in this game is going to help immeasurably in the future. No longer will Notre Dame be nervous, doubting team. Many of the rough edges were knocked off against Pitt, and there's never been a Notre Dame team that didn't thrive on hard com­petition. 
Whether the physical weariness, bumps, and bruises received in the game can be erased in time for the Irish to benefit by its experience against Ohio State is another matter. 
but Elmer Layden has a team that is developing. 
No apologies are needed for this Notre Dame student body, either. Some 2,000 boys dragged themselves out of bed at six o'clock of a cold, damp Sunday morning to go down to greet the team on its return from Pittsburgh. ' Many of them -walked the two or more miles to the station, after the street cars had been filled to overflowing. 
That Famous Penalty 
Elmer Layden, from whom no apol­ogies were needed, took the occasion to apologize to the students for run­ning on the field at the time the pen­alty on O'Reilly was called in the fourth quarter. O'Keilly, the mo-vies show, used his hands legitimately to ward off Souchak's attempted block. He was accused of unnecessary roughness and, according to Notre Dame players, was ordered off the field by Umpire A. H. Slack. Elmer, with the one thought in mind of pre­venting an injustice to one of his players, rushed on the field to give his version of what had happened and to see why O'Reilly was being ban­ished. Slack, who had motioned O'Reilly away from him and appar­ently to the bench, denied that he had ordered O'Reilly to leave. Layden, demonstrating on Slack just how O'Reilly has used his hands on Sou­chak's shouldere, aroused the suspi­cion of Pitt players who, thinking Layden was pushing him around, rushed to his defense. The crowd booed. The upshot of it all was a 15-yard penalty on O'Reilly from the spot of the alleged foul. Layden and O'Reilly were both the victims of a series of misunderstandings, and this is merely an explanation of what happened, gathered from a number of reliable sources—and not an apol­ogy for either, for none is needed. 
"Nothing has ever touched me more deeply than this turnout this morning," Elmer said in a husky voice to the hushed students. "I must have lost my head Saturday when I ran on the field, but I couldn't sit by and see an injustice done to one of 
BILL STEINKEMPER 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the boys, although the official in quesr tion undoubtedly acted in good faith." He tried to go on, but the words would not come," and he left hurried­ly amid an ovation from the crowd. 
That Notre Dame System 
.A.nd now a word on the Notre Dame system. Alabama, coached by Frank Thomas; Auburn coached by Jack Meagher; Fordham coached by Jimmy Crowley; Holy Cross coached by Dr. Eddie Anderson; Santa Clara coached by Buck Shaw; Villanova coached by Maurice (Clipper) Smith late of Santa Clara, are among the nation' s outstanding undefeated teams as of October 24. 
A hurried and incomplete check shows the following others to be among the top-nochers: Bowdoin, beaten only by Wesleyan and coached by Adam Walsh; Detroit, beaten only by Villanova and coached by Gus Do­rais; Duquesne coached by John P. (Clipper) Smith, defeated 2 to 0 by West Virgina Wesleyan the -week following the victory over Pitt; Ken­tucky coached by Chet Wj-nne and defeated only by Georgia Tech; La-Salle coached by Marty Brill and beaten only by Catholic U.; Michigan State coached by Charley Bachman and defeated only by Marquette's un­beaten Hilltoppers; Purdue coached by Noble Kizer and beaten only by Minnesota's undefeated Gophers; St. Maiy's coached by Slip Madigan and beaten only by Fordham, by one point; Texas coached by Jack Chev­igney and beaten, 21 to 18 in the last quarter by Baylor and 7 to 0 by Rice in five games; and Washington coached by Jimmy Phelan and beaten only by Minnesota, now leading the Pacific Coast conference race. 
This list is by no means complete, but it gives a rough idea of how ef­fective the hop-shift system of offen­sive football still is. .A.nd don't let anyone tell you otherwise. 
Following is a review of the first three games of the season: 
Notre Danie, 21; Carnegie Tech, 7 
Still a mystery team, the Fighting Irish had their own coaches wonder­ing if they were really as good as they looked after the opener with Carnegie Tech. No doubt about it, Tech is a superior team this year to that which Notre Dame defeated, 14 to 3, last year. In this game. Coach Elmer Layden's boys went to work with the dash and precision typical of Notre Dame teams of old. The principal heartening feature was the ability of several backs to block for keeps, while the line occasionally opened nice holes. On the other paw, the pass defense left much to be de­sired. Tech completed nine out of 18 attempts for 145 yards and a touch­down. That was cause for worry and 
discussion for the next two weeks, .when the boys perked up a little against the aerial attack of Wiscon­
sin. 
It took the shock troops, quarter-
JOE Z-WERS 
backed by Joe Ruetz, South Bend's made-over guard, to start scoring activities against Tech after the first team had spent a fruitless first half. Ruetz intercepted a Tech pass on the first play of his career as a signal caller, and he was dropped on Tech's 24-yard line. A plunge failed, but Jack McCarthy, speedy left half, passed to Joe Gleason, right half for nine yards. McCarthy then raced nine yards, Steve Miller plunged to the five-yard line, and then scored. Ed Beinor, a Sophomore tackle -ivhose all-around play has been promising, kicked the extra point from place­ment. 
Soon after this Tech pressed into Irish territory and the regulars were recalled. Bob Wilke, left half, was tackled from three sides at once and fumbled on his 46-yard line. Tech recovered and marched to a touch­down, which came on the last play from scrimmage of the half. Jerry Matelan passed to Ray Camelly, a great Sophomore quarterback, for the score, and Capt. Nester Henrion, tackle, place kicked the axtra point. 
In the third quarter, Larry Dan­bom and his varsity mates exploded a perfect play which resulted in a 61-yard run and the touchdown that broke Tech's back. The backfield shifted to the left, the ball came to Wojcihovski at right halfback. He handed it to Danbom on a reverse, and Danbom ran around his right end, preceded by Andy Puplis and Bob Wilke, who did some mighty thorough blocking for a pair of 163­pounders. 
The third touchdown was scored by Steve Miller on a reverse for eight yards, to climax a 55-yard march in the third period. Puplis, who is de­veloping into a better-than-average punter, kicked the last two place­ments. Puplis has been blocking well, running the team intelligently, and 
(Continued on Tatx 64) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1936 
ALUMNI CLUBS » . . 
AKRON 
William G. Burkhardt, '3S, SO Mayfield Ave. 
Akron, Preaident: Lawrence H. Halter, '31. 
- 58 Hawthorne Ave. Akron, Secretary. Through the efforts of Joe and Steve Woznjak, a special train will carry over 1,000 N. D. alumni and followers to the game at Pittsburgh, Saturday, October 24. Arrangements have likewise been made for a sim­ilar train to carry about 500 people 
to the Ohio State game at Notre Dame, the foUo\ving Saturday. 
Here's hoping we \\-ill have more Notre Dame news from Akron to send in the next time. 
Larry Halter. 
* ARIZONA 
James D. Barry, '97. Consolidated Bank 
Bide,. Tucson, President: Steven Rebeil, '25, 
620 N. Sixth Street, Tucson, Secretary. 
ARKANSAS 
Burt L. Roherts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little 
Rock, Ark., Secretary'. 
* 
BENGAL 
Rt Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02, 
Dacca, Benjral, India. President; Rev. J. J. 
Hennessey, C.S.C., '02, Dacca, Bensal, India, 
Secretary. 
* 
BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Eugene O'TooIe. '20, 321^25 State St., St 
Joseph, President; Frank A. Deitle, '26, 
Napier Ave, Benton Harbor, Secretary. In spite of the downpour of rain Tuesday evening, October 6, the club turned out 35 strong to enjoy a chicken dinner at the Waters Farm located between Niles and Buchanan. To say the dinner was excellent would be too mild, and a proof of the favor it gained with the club may be had from the estimate of a noted bone specialist after the dinner. Up­on surveying the outlay before Tom Grimes (a light eater) he decided that such a collection of bones could not be less than the skeletons of four complete chickens. 
-4Jter the dinner a regular meeting was held, and it was decided to have a club dance sometime near Thanks­giving. 
A committee was appointed by President Gene O'Toole to make all arrangements and to set the exact date of this dance. This committee was composed of Sheridan Cook, chairman, John Meadows, Bill Mad­den, Allan Johnson and Prof. William Downey. 
The feature of the evening was an interesting and instructive talk by Dr. Daniel O'Grady, of the Philoso­phy Department of the University. 
Dr. O'Grady discussed Communism and the various "isms" that are cast­ing their influence about Europe and America at the present day, also their origin and distinctive differences. 

The 7936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hushes, 'II , Chicaso, III 

Ray J. Eichenaub, '15, Columbus, Ohio Henry I. Dockweiler, '12, Los Anseles, Cal James E. Armstrong. '25. Notre Dame William R. Dooiey. '26, Notre Dame Fred L. Steers. '11. Chicago. Ill James E. Deery. '10. Indianapolis. Ind 
Don P. O'Keefe. '03. Detroit. Mich Joseph M. Byrne. Jr., '15. Newark. N. J 
 President  First Vice-President  Second Vice-President  Secretary-Treasurer  Assistant Secretary  Director to 1937  Director to 1938  Director to 1939  Director to 1940 

Bernard J. Vol!. '17, South Bend. Ind Director to 1937 (ex-officio) Joseph Waidron. '36. Trenton. N.J Director to 1937 
The 7936-37 Distriet Governors 
Alexis Coquillard. '03. South Bend. Ind Fred L Steers. 'II . Chicago Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17. Pittsburgh. Pa Eugene A. O'Brien, '28. Minneapolis. Minn Dr. John T. Burns. '13. Kalamazoo, Mich 
B. K. Wingerter. '26. East Orange. N. J Hugh A. O'Donnell. 94. New York City! John J. Huether. '22. Schenectady. N. Y Thomas Collins. '28. Fall River. Mass Anselm D. Miller. '25. Roanoke. Va Frank W. Thomas. '23, Tuscaloosa. Ala William Reisert. Jr.. '29. Louisville, Ky Cyprian Sporl. Jr.. '28, New Orleans, La 
D. Patrick Buell.' '24. Dallas. Texas Daniel F. Foley. '23. Ft. Leavenworth. Kan Clarence Ruddy. '27. Aurora. Ill Earl W. Brown. '93. Helena. Mont James P. Logan. '18. Denver. Colo Anton R. Hebenstreit. 'II . Albuquerque. New Mex 
W. Breen McDonald. '17. San Francisco, Calif. 
Samuel M. Dolan. '10. North Bend. Ore 
To be elected 
Guests of the club included Frank Lloyd, comptroller of the University, James E. Armstrong, alumni secre­tary, and Professor Norbert Engels. 
Frank A. Deitle. 
* BOSTON 
James Dooiey. '22. 368 Main St.. North An­
dover, Mass., President: James Skahan. '31, 
5 Grove St., Belmont, Mass.. Secretary. 
A letter from Jim Murray, 21 Eaton Avenue, Wobum, Massachu­setts, brings the news that Jim Dooiey, of .A.ndover, Massachusetts, was elected president of the Boston Club some time ago. 
Jim also reported the death of Mike Brown's father. Mike is still living in Swampscott, Jim says, and 
 District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District District 
I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22 
during the Summer he spent a great pai:t of his time on the beach giving a broken leg the sun treatment. 
Jim adds: "Give my regards to Father Doremus and you may also add that Jack Hughes, of Jackson­ville, Florida, created a new style of God-parentage. I am the Godfather of Jack's first son by proxy. I know you will also be pleased to hear that Babe Spinelli, of Munhall, is at pres­ent associated with the law firm of the attorney general of Pennsyl­vania." 
* BUFFALO 
John G. Byrne. '23, 149 Monroe Dr.. Wil­
liamsville, N. Y. President: Rohert Mcaser. 
"34, The Amherst Bee Co.. Main & Rock 
Sts.; Williamsville, N. Y., Secretary. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-Ill.) John Rohrbach. '23. Crown Point. Ind., President: Fred J. Solman. Jr.. "28, 5752 Erie Ave.. Hammond, Ind., Secretary. 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) 
Richard S. Walsh. "31, 2191 Plaza, Schenec­
tady, N. Y.. President: John B. Land, '34. 
4 Hedgew^Jod Ave., Schenectady, Secretary. 

The Club is primed for its full swing of Fall activities. A dinner and radio broadcast of the Ohio State game will be our debut. This func­tion always has been, and will con­tinue to be, a tremendous drawing card. It has preference over all other engagements. It is a meeting that no member can afford to miss. Very little business, if any, is discussed. For an unadulterated football get-together the occasion can not be sur­passed. We are proud of the past performances and shouldn't ask for more, but the coming event promises to overshoot all previous efforts. 
Presentation of the Annual Rockne Trophy to the leading local high school football eleven deserves a tribute. The club is proud of the prestige that has been gained by be­ing able to make such a noteworthy reward. Spontaneous advance pub­licity that the trophy incurs is amaz­ing. Preparations are already being made even though the end of the sea­son winner is unpredictable. You'll hear more about the trophy. 
The Rockne Trophy committee of the Capitol District club. Left to right, John Casazza, Dan Cunha, Dick Walsh, Larry O'Neil and Clare Tou­hey. 
The E. E. class of '34 ^^-ill be glad to know that Al Heigle and Ed Kene­fake are now shooting at Gerard Swopes' position. They are proud possessors of N. D. master's degrees, and the General Electric Company shouldn't go wrong on their selec­tion. 
Inasmuch as my temporary resi­dence in Bridgeport, Connecticut keeps me away from Schenectady, New York, home of the General Elec­tric Company, except on week-ends I request the privilege to free lance a bit. 
Bridgeport is cluttered with the Irish alumni. Ed Monahan is one step ahead of me when arrangements for a get-together are planned. 
Joe "Bed" Forrest dropped into the office a few days ago for a social call. I hope that it was a social visit for I understand Joe gathers no moss when he puts on the pres­sure for the Penn Mutual Life In­surance Company. 
Pat Rooney's annual gridiron trek will get under way when he puts in his stadium appearance with the Buckeyes, after which he will set sail for the Navy sinking. A little later the .4.rmy big guns will attract his undivided attention. 
Dan Brennan is Still pursuing the law texts but he should take a swing onto the bench sometime next Sum­mer alongside his illustrious father. 
Jerry Andres is shooting at the top in radio production for the G. E. Bridgeport plant. 
If Dick Kelly knew that a certain individual breezed through Great Barrington, Massachusetts every Fri­day night about 10 o'clock and re-breezed back every Sunday night he would, I'm sure, call off those an­noying motorcycle cops. Your road commission gang has been supported long enough, Dick. Have you guessed the source of revenue for all those new copper uniforms. Don't ask me; I know. 
John B. Land. 

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St. LansinB. President: J. Harvey Gauthier, *30, Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceres. '28. Perth Amboy Nat'I. Bank Bldff.,Perth Amhoy, President: John Lisicki. '31, 292 Hall Ave.. Perth Amboy. Secretary. 

Our new organization has started with a bang. There were about 30 fellows in attendance at our first meeting. 
We sponsored a Spring Dance at the Berkley - Cartereb in iVshbury Park, New Jersey, and, under the ca­pable handling of William Harring­ton, it was a huge success. 
During the summer months of July and August activities were sus­pended. 
On October 15, another meeting was called and again we had a great attendance. 
Plans were immediately made for a distribution of Notre Dame--A.rmy tickets and a dance to be held in conjunction with the distribution. An­thony Guiffre was made chairman of the activity and Ronald Armour, chairman of the dance. These activ­ities are to be held November 10, at the Hotel Pines in Metuchen, New Jersey. 
It seemed that the boys were not satisfied with stopping here, but went on to formulate plans for a Christ­mas dance. Larry Kemper was chosen chairman. 
The date and place for this affair will be discussed at the next meeting. 
So much for the club affairs. I have a few personal items that some of the fellows would appreciate knowing: 
William Gadek has completed his internship at the Margaret Hague Hospital in Jersey City. 
Russell Tarrell is employed by the Anaconda Copper, and has been transferred to South America. I heard from reliable sources that his future with the concern is very bright. 
Tony Ceres has been appointed county chairman of the Christmas Seal Drive sponsored by the Tuber­culosis League. 
Anthony Guiffre is the happy fa­ther of two girls. 
Gilbert Augustine is athletic direc­tor in Leonardo High School. Big things are expected from him. 
William Harrington has been ap­pointed librarian at the Carteret Li­brary. 
Michael Balog is Connected with the Staten Island Dental Works. 
Stanley Kokowicz has been em­ployed by the duPont Company, and is stationed in Niagara Falls. We would appreciate it if the boys in that section would look him up. 
I would like to get in touch with Joseph O'Rourke^ '31. If any one knows his home address, please for­ward same to me. 
.4.nd last but not least, yours truly has become a benedict, having mar­ried Miss Teresa Egan of Perth Am­boy. 
John Lisicki. 
* 

CHICAGO 
Edward W. Gould. '23. 1313 W. Randolph 
St., President: Patrick F. Crowley. '33, 742 
Junior Terrace, Secretary. 

The numerous activities and the remarkable success of Ed Gould's ad­ministration in our Chicago Club im­pels me to give you a brief summary of what has been done and what is contemplated for the immediate fu­
ture. 
On September 29, 300 members of the Club gathered at Fox Bros. Tighe Woods arranged the details, which factor, plus the Fox Brothers' generous hospitality, resulted in a grand evening for all. Dick Hanley addressed the group, recalling inter­esting yams of his long and pleasant experience with Notre Dame. 
On Friday, October 16, about 250 members of the Wisconsin and Notre Dame Clubs joined in a luncheon to pay their respects to Harry Stuhl­dreher. Because it was the eve of the Wisconsin-Notre Dame game we were unable to wish him immediate success, but all concurred in extend­ing our best wishes for the balance of the season. 
The Club's next activitj' ivill be a dinner dance to be held at the Knick­erbocker Hotel on November 7, and with our president, and Jack Elder, the chairman, already hard at -work on the details, I am sure there will be no lapse in the success that the club has enjoyed this year. 
On October 21, we were to co­operate with the National Catholic Alumni Federation in a supper and meeting held at the the Union League Club. Father O'Hara was expected. We were also looking for­ward to the message which Art Hughes, the national alumni presi­dent, had to bring from the Holy Father. 
In a rather embryonic stage is a program being espoused by Frank McKeever with the cooperation of the club whereby it is hoped that a series of lectures by professors from the University can be arranged. This program is being enthusiastically pro­moted by a group, and if the attitude of Jim Doyle and Jin: O'Shaughnessy, the only two members of the commit­tee with whom I have had occasion to discuss the matter, is any indica­tion of the fervor of that group, I believe the difficulties inherent in such a project can be overcome. 
The above list of actiWties should be a sufficient background to support a hope that the other Notre Dame alumni clubs are enjoj-ing successful administrations as. is the Chicago Club under the tutelage of Ed Gould. 
Patrick F. Crowley. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichonlaub. '15. Hosier Realty-
Bid?., Columbus, President. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA Leonard Burns, '25, 1635 20th Ave, Altoona, Pa.. President: William McAlecr, '31, 1518 19th Ave, Altoona, Pa., Secretary, * CINCINNATI Harry V. Crumley, '03, 2655 S. Harrison Ave., Wcst\4-ood Bmnch, President: Frank H, Sweeney, ex. '17. Kemper Lane Hotel, Secretary. The first meeting of the Fall sea­son was held at the Kemper Lane hotel on the evening of Tuesday, October 6. First order of business was the arrangement for a dancing partj' to be held during the Christ­mas holidays, as a means of getting the present Cincinnati men at Notre Dame together with the local alumni members. The committee in charge consists of Albert Castellini, chair­man, Donald Dixon, Robert Hughes and George Aug. 
It was also decided at this meeting to arrange a get-together for Gus Dorais, when in Cincinnati with his Detroit team, competing with Clem Crowe's Xavier outfit. Committee in charge consists of Commodore Ed McHugh, Larry Janszen and Joe Morrissey. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
It was our good fortune at this meeting to have Judge Otis R. Heu, who gave us a very interesting talk on his many years' experience in the various courts in Hamilton county. 
Dick Bray, sportscaster on WKRC, and also one of the officials at the Notre Dame - Carnegie Tech game, gave us a nice message from Elmer Layden, and also explained in detail rules of the game today. 
James V. Egan and wife spent a few days in Cincinnati, as guests of Mr. and Mrs. AI Castellini. It was their good fortune for some of the fellows to renew acquaintance with Jim, and to wish him continued suc­cess with the Chicago Park District. 
William Struck, Notre Dame, was in attendance this week at his aunt's wedding (Miss Cornelia Leary, St. Mary's). She became the bride of Mr. Louis O'Malley. 
Just received word that' Thomas Gorman has also gone into business for himself in Wyoming, a suburb of Cincinnati. Our best wishes to him, and, undoubtedly, many of the club members will ^isit him. 
Word has just been received that Jack Heilker, with the Department of Justice, has been transferred- to Los -4jigeles. -^ong ^vith this comes the information that Bernard Hug­ger, who is with the -American Air Lines, has received a very fine pro­motion and is now located in Chicago. 
At the suggestion of the Cincin­nati Alumni Club of Ohio State University, a get-together is being planned for the Ohio State bunch and Notre Dame men on the night of Tuesday, October 27. As yet a complete program is not definite. The Notre Dame committee in charge be­ing composed of Harry Crumley, chairman, Joe Morrissey and Frank 
H. Sweeney. 
Hogan Morrissey spent the week­end at Notre Dame when he took in the Wisconsin game. 
Frank H. Sweeney. 
* 
CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny. '28. 16G0 Warren Road. Lakewood, Ohio, President: Lawrence Krai, 
•31, 27G E. 272 St., Qcveland, Ohio. Secre­tary. (Editors' note: Apologies to the Club and to Larry Krai for the omis­sion of his August 24 letter from the October ALUJINUS). August 24, 1936. By way of honoring Notre Dame's most successful bi^ league ball play­er, we had a "Billy Sullivan Day" at the Cleveland Ball Park, where Bill is doing such a fine job behind the plate. Paul Castner and George Belting handled the affair without a hitch. The club presented Billy with a portable radio, and Sullivan imme­diately responded by leading the at­
tack on the Red Sox, and playing a fine defensive game. An even hun­
November, 1936 
dred attended the game, and 65 sat down to the banquet at the C.A.C. Father Moriarty, Steve O'Neill, and the former mayor, Ray T. Miller, spoke, and then Billy, who is quite an after dinner speaker incidentally, gave us the ups and do-wns of a big league career. 
Following which • we moved our battle ground to Sleep Hollow Coun­try Club on July 23 to settle the an­nual disputes of golfing merit. Bill Van Rooy handled this affair in a live fashion. Seventy golfers turned out with about the same number at din­ner, in spite of a thunderstorm that came up in mid-afternoon. Bob Mor­rissey fired a neat 73 to take the tro­phy from Dick McMonagle, and be­came alumni champion for the year. Other -ninners—Joe Heimann, second low gross, 81; Bud O'Brien, third low gross, 83; Billy Ryan, biggest score (for shame), 155; Gay Haas, most strokes on one hole, 13; Dutch O'Day, most putts; Gene Kane, long drive; Art Hughes, visiting alumnus low score; Joe Gavin, low first nine; Frank Cull, low second nine; Paul Castner, proximity on No. 6; Chuck Rohr, proximity on No. 19; Cy Cald­well, blind par; Pat Canny, second blind par. 
Bob Leonard won the student's trophy permanently, bagging a fine 77, while Charlie Elster won the guest prize with an equally good 77. 
Doc McCarthy proved his worth as an M.C. at the dinner. 
Our Confidential Service Bureau reports a bumper crop of young­sters since the last issue: at the Paul Abels, girl; the George Kervers, girl; the Tom Kieners, girl; the Clete Schneiders, boy; the Chuck Rohrs, boy; the Frank Culls, girl; the Gay Haases, girl; the George Thomases, boy; and the Larry Krals, boy. And all mothers and babies are doing well. 
John Raleigh is now located in the experimental laboratories o f th e American Steel and Wire Company. 
Bill Bambrick recently passed the state dental examination. Jack Collins is fully recovered now from a recent operation. 
John Venables is now selling secur­ities for the Rrst Cleveland Corpor­ation. 
John Begney has become interested in the Cleveland Hospitalization Plan, and is doing very well. 
Tom Crosby is a newcomer here, located in the May Company Sports Department. 
Likewise, John Sherman, former student manager, is here, stirring up trade for the Kock Island railroad. 
Norm McLeod covers the state for the Ohio Bell now, in the advertis­ing department. 
Prayers are asked for John Ra­leigh'* father who died in July. Larry Krai. 

October 19, 1936. 
With the flannel season coming on, and pigskins floating through the air with the greatest of ease, we're turn­ing out thoughts to our largest event on the social calendar — the annual Christmas dance, and Pat will an­nounce the chairman and committee very shortly. Annually this affair has grown to pleasantly alarming proportions, and we have to handle the baby very tenderly. 
The Cleveland alumni are running a special to Pittsburgh next Satur­day, and we plan to run a couple of cars to South Bend for the Ohio game. 
In the now famous police investi­gations now being conducted here, John Butler and Frank Celebreeze, who both served under former mayor Ray T. Miller, are working hard to uncover graft and corruption. 
John W. Wadden, '07, lately of California, is now located here, be­ing temporary manager of the Fidel­ity Investment Association, with tem­porary residence at the -AJlerton. 
Fred Joyce, formerly of the French Casino at the Great Lakes Expo, is now managing the Bal Tabarin, the most fashionable night club in Cleve­land. 
George Leppig is now in govern­ment work with the Mariners, train­ing G-men. 
Paul Brady, our Painesville repre­sentative, is acquiring quite a reputa­tion for his legal work there. 
George Thomas is able to tell you how the Village of Willoughby is run. 
Joe Butler is on the road now, sell­ing municipal bonds for Lawrence Cook and Company. 
In Chicago, Pat Canny bumped in­to Spike McAdams. 
Charley Jahr, '34, is in from Wis­consin, and can be reached at North­ampton Apartments in Prospect Av­enue. 
Dick McMonagle and Frank Svo­
boda are studying law at Cleveland Law School. 
Tom Conley is, as this is written, now batting 500 at John Carroll U. —^two defeats and two wins. Gene Oberst, Frankie Gaul and Judge Car­.berry are aiding. Tom, incidentally, is. adept at being interviewed over tiie air. 
'-''Jim Uprichard continues to de­fend his new mustache. It's another harbinger of winter. 
Tony Gonzalez, '25, of Manila, dropped in at Chuck Rohr's at our Monday luncheon and had a lot of interesting stories concerning the trouble in Spain. 
Larry Krai. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Harry J. Dcesait, ex. '31, 100 Francis Ave., Hartford. Conn., President; John M. Cianci, "29, 500 Allen St., New Britain, Conn., Secretary. 
* DALLAS 
James P. Swift. '21. 1202 Southwestern Life Bid?., Dallas. President: Francis A. McCuI­louKh, '30. 917 First National Bank Bids., Dallas, Secretary. 
* 
DAYTON 
Eugene Mayl, '24, 400 Irvinpr Ave., Presi­dent ; William Cronin, '29, 418 Crafton Ave., Secretary. 
* DENVER 
Robert Dick, '29, 1653 Glencoe SL, Presi­dent : Harry Lawrence. '29, 1951 Lawrence St., Secretary. 
DETROIT 
John J. Norton, '24, 1025 Forest Ave., President: Edward R. McAIahon, ex. '30, 2291 LaMotte Ave.. Secretary. 
DES MOINES 
Harry O'Boyle. '27, 2801 Grand Ave.. Presi­dent: Richard Hyde, '35, 678 26th St., Secretary. 
Activity of the local organization was at a standstill most of the Sum­mer on account of the warm weather, but now that footballs are in the air again I have noticed a few signs of life. 
Jim Shaw has hied himself to Cali­fornia for a vacation, but I under­stand that the real reason for the trip is to give his brother. Buck, a few tips. Harold Klein has also shed his cares and is relaxing in the South somewhere. I will relay any import­ant news that they may bring back with them. 
Bill Coen, '35, from Afton, Iowa, was in Des Moines for a day last week. He is one of the few class­mates that I have seen in this part of the country. Tom LaLonde was here in June and was due again last month, but I fear I have missed him as I no longer live at the old home­stead although I still get my mail there. 
We would appreciate some infor­mation on the football broadcasts. We heard the game last Saturday from WIND at Gary, and the week before I got Busing's broadcast through a Chicago station. The local stations are strong for Big Ten games, and I have found it hard to get through to the local South Bend stations. 
We are planning a steak fry at Norton Sullivan's farm before the weather gets bad. We will have to pick a date when the football team is far from South Bend, however, or there will be few attending.' There are plenty of pilgrims in this town. 
I was talking to Carleton Beh a few days ago, and he has been down for one game already. I see Harold and Fred Neu now and then and also Harold Klein. Jim Shaw has also been around town all Summer. Harry O'Boyle is hard at work with the Dowling College football team, and so far his efforts have not gone un­rewarded. He is having a good sea­son. I have not seen many of the other men, but our steak fry should bring them out into the open. 
Dick Hyde. 
DUBUQUE 
C. I. Kraiewski, '16. 321 Bank & Insurance Bldff., President: Henry I. Trenkle. '24. 180 
S. Booth St.. Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33. 401 Wysor Bids-, Muncie, Ind., President: Alvis E. Granger, ex. "31. 617 S. Jefferson St., Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem. President; Ernest L. Wilhelm. '27, New Jersey Zinc Co.. Research Dept.. Palmerton, Secretary. 
Kenneth Stilley, '36, is head coach at Allentown Prep School, Allen­town. 
William Gorman, '29, Bethlehem, has been appointed engineer in charge of swimming pools in the Bu­reau of Health, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. A son was bom to him recently. Bill is married to the former Miss Kathryn Schrader, fa­mous as an athlete at Bethlehem High School and Mt. St. Joseph's College, Philadelphia. 
Leo Mclntyre. * 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Richard D. Daley. '17, Erie D:ii]y Times, President: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 New­man St., Secretary. 
* FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Donnelly P. McDonald, '12. Peoples Trust & Savings Co.. President: Edward S. Sullivan, '24, 125 E. Snttenfield St.. Secretary. 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
James Murphy, '22, 611 Security Bids., Bridgeport. Conn.. President; Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Hough Ave., Bridgeport. Conn., Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
George E. Ludwig, '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. 
N. W., President: Raymond J. Bcnini. '27, 607 Atwood. N.E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY. WISCONSIN 
Harold L. Londo. '24, City Engineers' office. City Hall. President: Levi A. Geniesse, '24, 510 Minahan BIdg., Secretary. 
* 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michican) 
Rohert O'Callaghan, ex. '16. Gogdie Na­tional Bank, Ironwood. President: Francis 
J. Vukovich. '35, Ridge St, Ironwood, Mich., Secretary. 
* HAMILTON. OHIO 
M. O. Bums, '86, S38 S. Second St.. Presi­dent: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27. 701 Rentsehler Bids., Secretary. 
* 
HARRISBURG 
Edward C Smith. '01. 2623 N. Second St., President: John J. McNeill, '33, Chevrolet Motor Co., Secretary. 

HIAWATHALAND (MIch.-Wis.) 
Gerald J. Clcary. 'ai. 310 Lake Shore Dr.. 
Escanaba. Mich., President: Edward J. 
Dundon, '22, Iron Mountain. Mich., Secre­
tary. 
* 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton, President: Thomas F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas. Secretary. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Lester Wisda. '31, 1016 E. Ganson St , 
President: Lyman Hill, '23, 224 S. Mechanic 
St.. Secretarj-. 
* 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Robert Basliervillc. '31. 104 Younss Ave.. 
President: Clarence Wilhelmi, '18, 909 
Oneida St.. Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Charles E. Mason. '26. Indiana Bell Tele­
phone Co.. President: Frank P. McCirthy, 
'28. 819 N. Gray St.. Secretary. 
Thanks to President Charley Mason's and chairman Art Shay's demonstration of the efficient method of securing cooperation, I am pleased to report the success of the Indian­apolis Club's second annual distribu­tion of football tickets and first an­nual Fall dance held for the bene­fit of a Notre Dame scholarship fund which we soon hope to offer to one of the local high school graduates. 
Our grand prize was a box of eight seats to the Ohio State game, and luckily for our cause the work was completed before Northwestern put another crimp in Ohio State's as-pii-ations. 
If Art Haley has got my ticket ap­plication, I'll be in South Bend Octo­ber 31. I'll trj' to get up to your office pro^•iding I can find my way thi-ough the crowd that will probably be trj'ing to do the same thing that day. 
Frank P. McCarthy. 
^;iis^i 
^mM 
KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita, Wich­ita. Kansas. President: Dan Wclchons. '30, 623 Elm St., Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary.^ . 
* 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
Robert Tyler. '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd.. Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd.. Kansas City, Mo.. Secrctarj*. 
* 
KENTUCKY Raymond Pfeiffer. '32, 3032 Lcxinrton Rd.. Louisville. President: John B. Ratterman, Jr.. e.t. '32, 2114 W. Market SL, Louisville, Secretary. 
* 
LAPORTE, INDIANA Clarence Bunce. '2.5. 613 Ridse St.. Presi­dent : Stephen Shapley, '30, Goodyear Tire Co., Secretarj*. 
* 
LOS ANGELES Eugene M. Kennedy. '22. Bank of America, 7th & Spring St., President: Douglas Daley, '30. 781 Ceres Ave., Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St , New Or­leans, La., President; Cyprian A. Sporl. Jr., '28. Whitney-Central BIdg.. New Orleans, La., Secretary. 
I have just returned from a fast trip to London, and much to my sur-Paul Johnson and his wife arrived there three days after me on the fol­lowing boat. So it was quite a coin­cidence that we had to go all the way across the -Atlantic for a reunion. 
To further add to my surprise, who should we run into one day in the Savoy Hotel but John Purcell of New Jersey and Tony Roxas from Manila. Naturally, this called for quite a Notre Dame session. Jake is presently located in London, and Tony is running a sugar business in Manila, and was over there on a va­cation. 
Had the pleasure of having a call from Mike DufFecy this Summer who 
>/ -w 
was down here with his wife visiting her parents. 
I know all Jules de la Vergne's friends ^\^ll be interested to know that he is being married the latter part of October. 
Don Laskey was down for the Cen­tenary - Tulane game and spent the week-end with me. 
Governor While of Mississippi re­cently made my brother, Harold a colonel on his staff. 
Cyp Sporl. 
H: 
MANILA 
Eduardo Roxas, '33. 719 Exchange. Manil.i. 
President: Leopoldo Brias. Manila, Secre­
tary. 
MEMPHIS Sturla Canale. '35, 620 S. Belvidere, Presi­dent: Lavin McNicholas, '35, 591 N. Treze­vant St , Secretary. 
* 
MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent C. Giblin. '18. 4103 Collins Ave., 
Miami Beach, President: Daniel J. Lino, ex. 
'34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Miami, Secre­
tary. 
* 
MILWAUKEE 
Joseph Griffin, '28. 210 E. Michigan St. 
President: Jean LaBouIe. '29, 524 E. Mason 
St. Secretary. 
* 
MONTANA 
William B. Jones, '28, 411 Power BIdg., 
Helena. President: Rev. John Regan. '24, 
Bishop's House. Great Falls, Secretary. 
* 
NEW JERSEY . 
Raymond A. Geiger. '32, 446 Eastern Park­way, Irvington, N. J.. President: Daniel O'Neill. '26. 184 N. Walnut St, E. Orange, 
N. J., Secretary. 
The '36-'37 year in the history of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey was officially inaugurated last Octo­ber 5. For a first night we call the occasion successful based on an at­tendance of 34 alumni and a top­notch pair of interesting discussions 
.4!;. ^ 
;^.^^f 

This is the splendidly large group of alumni who attended the Retreat sponsored, on September 11-H, by the New York 
and the New Jersey clubs in the Loyola House of Retreats, Morristoum, New Jersey. 
led by Father C. J. Ahearn, pastor of Queen of the Angels parish, New­ark, and Harold Hansen, a true friend of Notre Dame. 
A review of the minutes of that meeting shows further evidence of President Ray Geiger's flair for order and smooth executive ability. The pi'ogram covered no less than 18 sep­arate items of official business, rang­ing from reports on our Freshman Welcome Party and the Retreat to appointment of committees for dances and other current activities. You can be assured that football re­ceived its full share of attention, what with some of the real "inside." as related by Hansen. Northwestern and Pitt are the objects of his ad­miration as purveyors of high-class football. Trips to the Ohio State game at Noti'e Dame and the Navy game at Baltimore, this last at the invitation of the New York Club, were discussed at length by our Club members. 
For the possible edification of other Alumni Association officers I offer the New Jersey Club's plans for dragging members out to meet­ings and keeping them interested while at said meetings. First, every­one has an invitation to become a member of the Club at the rate of §1.00 dues per year for which he re­ceives a high-grade membership card. Next, there are door prizes awarded to members who attend. The first meeting, incidentally, brought good fortune to Tom Farrell who won free admission to the Old-Time Campus Party Dance slated for November 10. The interest angle to the meeting is entrusted to guest speakers. Our next headline attraction will be Law­rence Perry or Stanley Woodward, depending on which of these two outstanding sports authorities is here at the time of the November 2 meet­ing. Special inducement is given to recent graduates to join us through a provision in our constitution which requires the appointment of a recent graduate as chairman of the Annual Christmas Dance. 
Dan O'Neill. 
* 
NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norbcrt Gelson, '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. President: Warren S. Fojrel, '30, 70 Wall St. Secretary. 
Our plans for the night of the Army game are much the same as last year. We will hold a dinner dance in the main ballroom of the Hotel Pennsylvania, dinner to be served at 7 o'clock and the total damage to be $3.50 per plate. Dancing will be provided by the music of Francis (Bugs) Walther, '25, and his orchestra. The club de­fies anyone to capture a filet mignon and all the fixings, plus entertain­ment, noted speakers and dancing at that price anywhere in New York that night. We expect a large at­tendance and to spare people who were disappointed in not getting their Army game tickets further annoy­ance, we hereby give notice that res­ervations should be made as early as possible. 

Our regular monthly meeting took place October 8 and consisted of a dinner to Arthur J. Hughes, national alumni president, at the Centre Club. The club adopted a whole-hearted stand with Mr. Hughes in his fight on Communism and was greatly im­pressed by his excellent program to that end. Hugh O'Donnell acted as toastmaster and the several speakers included Joe Byrne, John T. (Terry) McGovern, Judge William Walsh of Yonkers, Charles Gorman, and Fa­ther Kelly of the Catholic Writers' Guild, who spoke concerning the me­morial to G. K. Chesterton. 
About 125 members were present to welcome Mr. Hughes from Europe and they all thoroughly enjoyed themselves. 
Final plans have been announced for the club's trip to Baltimore on November 7 for the Navj' game. The total charge is $10.00, which includes round-trip fare on the B. & 0. Rail­road and ticket to the game. Popu­lar priced meals will be served on the train. A large delegation is expected to attend, judging from the calls your correspondent has been getting. 
Warren Fogel. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bernard J. Abrott. '27. Latham Sq. Bids-Oakland. Calif.. President: Elmer Wynne, 
•28. c-o E. S. Townsend Co., lotli Fl., Russ Bids., San Francisco, Secretary. 
* 
NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams, Jr.. '29, 106 Gallatin Road, Secretary. 
* 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa, President: Marion J. Blake. '33, National Bank of Tulsa Bids., Tulsa, Secretary. 
OREGON 
Samuel M. Dolan. '10, 4726 N. E. Alameda Drive. Portland. President; J. Ron Sullivan. 
•30, Gil Board of Trade BIdg.. Portland, Secretary. 
PARIS 
Louis P. Harl. '16. Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA 
Bradley Prescott, ex. '31, Central Illinois LiKht Co.. President: AI Gury. Jr.. '2S. 612 Albany Ave., Secretary. 
* 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert..'22. 402 Title & Trust Bids.. Phoenix, President. 
* 
PHILADELPHIA Walter Ridley. '31. 6824 N. 18th St, President: A. J. Wackerman. '35, 5356 Chew Street, Secretary. At our September meeting we had the pleasure of welcoming Clipper Smith and Vince McNally, new_ Vil­linova college coaches, to this section of the country. We found them very likeable fellows who had every indi­

cation of being among our regulars in Club attendance. Their presence in our midst prompted us give a banquet in their honor on October 1 to which we invited coaches and fac­ulty representatives of all the Cath­olic colleges and high schools in this vicinity. The underlying motive in asking these men to join us in honor­ing Clipper was to promote a feeling of good-fellowship among the stu­dents and alumni of the various in­stitutions, and to point out to them the advantages to be gained from supporting one another in their un­dertakings. 
The affair was a great success, so much so that we plan to make it an annual event. John H. Neeson, newly-elected lay trustee, acted as toast­master. Among those present were Marty Brill, coach of La Salle Col­lege; Pat Conway, coach at West Catholic High School; Coach Smokey Halas of Drexel Institute, a great friend of Notre Dame; Father Albers, vice-president of Villanova college, and Bert Ball, head of the Philadel­phia Eagles pro football team. Credit for arranging the affair must go to Ed Bailey, Walt Philip, Bill Castel­
linl and Jack Reilly. Our success in promoting such good feeling among the Catholic schools prompts us to suggest to other clubs in the country the organizing of a similar affair. 
The guest at our October meeting was none other than Arthur J. Hughes, national alumni president, recently returned from Europe. Mr. Hughes reported on his visit with the Holy Father and also outlined his plans for an organized fight against Communism. During his stay Mr. Hughes paid a visit to Cardinal Dougherty, archibshop of Philadel­phia. 
We have begun preparations for our annual Christmas dance and from every indication, gleaned from the enthusiasm of the various commit­tees, it should be a large and success­ful affair. 
The membership of our club has been swelled by 18 new members, not counting the recent graduates living in this area. Most of the new­comers are students at Jefferson Med School and the Law School at Penn. 
Looking over the recent births column in the latest issue of the ALUMNUS makes us of the Philadel­phia Club wonder what the recent papas have to be so puffed up about. Our own untooted Ed Bailey is the father of eight children bom in rapid succession. He has the distinction of having his seventh son bom on the eleventh day of the seventh month—a triple natural, as it were. We here and now enter him as our candidate in the Notre Dame Baby Derby race. Ed's sound advice to you men is not to get married in Leap-Year. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. Kobcrt W. Powers. Jr.. ex. '29. 22 Roseland Ave., Cranston, R,L. President: John &. Jolly, ex. 'IS, 457 Pawtucket Ave., Paw­tucket. R. I., Secretary. 
We had our annual election of officers of the R. I. and S. E. Mass. Club on September 21 at Providence. It was found that the following fel­lows would lead us through this en­suing year: Bob Powers, president; Bill Coogan, of Fall River, \'ice­president; Jack Jolly, secretary; and Tom Collins, of Fall River, treasurer. It was with pleasure that I retired from office after two years knowing that Bob would step in and keep things" going in the club. The entire new slate of officers started right to work and are planning a program of features that will make the year in­teresting. 
Our club is again ha\'ing tickets for the Notre D3me-.4rmy game at New York, and from all reports we will have a large crowd again. Last year we had 450 from Rhode Island to go to the game, and there -will be just as large a crowd this year again. At any rate we'll be selling the tickets. Jack Jolly is in charge of the ticket sale and ^\•ill be ably as­sisted by Jim Coogan, of Fall River, and Jack McLaughlin, of Cumber­land. 
With the opening of the football season we iind Connie Shackett as assistant coach at St. Raphael Acad­emy, and he is doing a fine job. He plans to join the Pro\idence profes­sional football team within another week or two in order to get back into his old form. 
Bill Coogan, our vice-president, has followed the example set by his brother, Jim, and has forsaken Fall River to move out to Somerset, Mas­sachusetts, where he can vie for honors in being a gentleman farmer. 
Jim Coogan is raising puppies on his farm, and during the summer had some of his dogs in the shows around here. Yes, he did win some prizes. 
Clem Grimes has a new job, as he is now the official photographer for the Rhode Island State Department of Justice, and he is seen in all parts of our state with his trusty camera and a measuring rod. 
Red McClurg was the winner of the K. of C. scholarship to Notre Dame, so he has now taken up resi­dence in South Bend. 
John McLaughlin has recently added another large truck to his fa­mous red fleet, and is rapidly becom­ing one of Rhode Island's leading business men. Mac surely deserves credit for his success in his business venture. 
Charlie Grimes has finally found some business that needed attention, and he is all set to go to Indiana to tend to the business and also to make sure that he arrives in time to at­tend some of the games in the sta­dium. 
Tom Murphy, '36, is now located in ProWdence as he is with the Ar­mour Company. He has attended all meetings since being here, and we look forward to having Tom as an active member. 
Leo McAloon. 
* 

ROCHESTER, (New York) Frank Norton. '32. SO Beckwith Terrace. President: D. Bernard Hennessy, '34, 119 Bedford St., Secretary. "The old order changeth . . .," and so, let it be known that on October 5 there came about a meeting of this august, staid and stately organiza­tion for the election of officers who are to hold sway during the coming year. The offices of president, vice-president, secretarj' and treasurer are to be filled respetcively by Fran­cis Norton, '32; James Gleason, '34; 
D. Bernard Hennessy, '34; Glenn Hatch, '28. The Four Magi, other­wise known as the Board of Gover­nors, are Joseph P. Flynn, '16; Ger­ard J. Smith, '26; John F. Norton, '36; D. Bernard Hennessy, '34. 
At our dinner at the Rochester Club on Wednesday, October 21, we expect to be favored with a few words from our latest blushing bene­dicts, Pony Sheehan, '33, and Gerry Farrell, '34. In the success of these two boys lies a world of encourage­ment for some of our timid brethren who are not exactly misogynistic minded. Also at our frolic of fun and food we expect to see a goodly array of faithful pre - '25ers. There will be Ward Schlotzer, Joe Tiemey, Norb Baglin, and, as generalissimo, we shall have our good friend, Joe Flynn. Then, too, Jerry Smith mast be on hand to interpret the by-laws. 
That flashy-topped Ray Margrett, '35, has just changed positions. He must have thought that the soap world was not big enough for him. Red now makes the struggle so much easier for those who "travel on time." He holds forth at Associates Discount with that very dapper Dortchel, '31. 
John Kinsella, '34, is down among the gauchos, working for KeyLox of this city. Jim McGrath is still call­ing for Philip Morris. 
Pete Connelly, '33, has been seen wandering about town mumbling, "Ohio State , . . round trip .. . 25 people . . . ticket to the game . . . see the campus." Must be something strange about it all. He has Emil DeClerck, '33, doing it. It might be well to take a gander down in Sorin Sub on October 31. 
Frank X. Connelly, X for '34, is getting himself all gnarled up break­ing the broncs over at the U. S. Cav­alry Armory. As a sideline he is em­ployed in construction design work at Kodak Park. He claims his build­ings will make the Alcazar look like old Freshman Hall. John Gillooly, '35, is having his brainstorm con­templating the terrors of ABC. He is working for a local liquor distrib­utor. John, by the way, is rapidly coming to the fore as a pigskin prog­nosticator for the local curbstone quarterbacks. 
Glenn Hatch, '28, has on more than one occasion been like a soothing as­pirin to the writer. Glenn has the peculiar knack of getting cars of Penn-Dixie cement rolling on shorter notice than anybody else in these parts. For the increasing longevity of a contractor's life, I give you Glenn. 
John Norton, '36, has eased him­self into General Railway Signal. That Man of the Hour, John Oden­bach, '36, is deepening the Genesee by day and doing the town by dark. Frank Weinmann, '35, is working for 
E. I. duPont de Nemours in Buffalo. Could Frank be a Veteran of Future Wars? 
Joe Fox, '36, has taken up gradu­ate study. Tom Meagher, '36, is like­wise furthering his intellectual pur­suits. Leo Hofschneider, '36, is get­ting his medicine in more ways than one at St. Louis. Eddie O'Hara, '35, is going into the higher realms of physical education at Columbia. These young blades who recently burgeoned forth with 35's and 36's are certainly creating a birain trust. Or is it all the embryo of a Utopia wherein work is shunned forever? Ah, palsied hand that reaches for the sheepskin of tomorrow! 
There are those who have not come to our attention on this occasion, but remember there is another day. This is Sunday, and for the nonce I must away to see Steve Banas, '33, pas­time with the Doyle Gulf professional football aggregation. Thus is aborted this Opus One of Flower City Saga. 
O. Bernard Hennessy. 
* 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Paul J. Fry. '27. 210 W. Third St. Dixon. 
HI.. President: Gerald Jones. '22, 105 E. 
Second St.. Dixon. EI., Secretary. 
* 

SAN ANTONIO 
•William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25. 107 Thelma Drive. President: Edward G. Conroy. '30, 204 E. Crais PL. Secretary. 
* 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Rudolph Kelly, ex. '17. 909 S. Park Ave.. 
President: Paul D. McConnell. '32. 120 S. 
Walnut St , Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Spring­field held a noon luncheon at the K. of C. club Thursday, September 23. At that time it was decided to con­tinue these noon luncheons each third Thursday of the month. 
I am pleased to report the acqui­sition of three new members: Harold Stone, ex. '34, William Bembrock, '35, Ed CuIIinane, ex. '29. 
William Bembrock reports his new address at 718 South Eighth Street, Springfield. 
One of our members, Ray Whip­ple, ex. '17, attained recognition by winning the national American Leg­ion golf tournament at Cleveland, September 23. He tied for the title after the first day's play, and won the playoff with a 72 on the par 71 Hawthorne Valley Country Club course. 
The Springfield alumni anticipate an active year with a number of in­formal functions. 
Paul D. McConnell. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis F. Buckley, '28, 718 E. Corby Blvd.. South Bend. Ind.. President: Clarence Hard­injT, '25, South Bend Tribune. South Bend. Ind., Secretary. 
Two interesting and highly enter­taining pre-game smokers formed the major part of our activities for the first part of the year. 
Judging from early indications this year's smokers promise to eclipse in interest and attendance the highly successful ones of last year. Held at the Jefferson Plaza Friday nights he-fore home games our smokers are be­coming the meeting place of all alumni and visitors back for the games the following day. 
The first smoker, held Friday night before the Carnegie game, got off to a flying start with an attendance of 
150. Bill Furey acted as master of ceremonies and kept the program moving at a fast clip. Among the speakers were Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, vice-president of the University; Frank H. Hayes, '14, An­aheim, California, and Bernard J. Voll, '17, South Bend, past presidents of the Alumni Association; Elmer Layden and Judge StefFen and How­ard Harpster, Tech coaches. Peter La-Cava entertained with accordion solos. 
Co-chairmen of the affair were Dave Campbell and Giles Cain. Mem­bers of their committee included Eli Abraham, William Baker, Andrew Boyle, William Cerri, William Cer­ney, Alexis Coquillard, Pedro de Lan­dero, Charles Davis, Paul Fergus, Earle Frarey, A. M. Foley, William Furey, G. A. Farabaugh, Robert Grant, Louis Hasley, Frank Hiss, Jo­seph Kovacs, J. H. B. McCarthy, £. 
R. McEndarfer, John Voedisch. 
The second smoker, Friday eve­ning before the Washington game, while somewhat disappointing in at­tendance, lacked nothing in enter­tainment. Frank Coughlin acted as master of ceremonies and Jimmy Conzleman, coach of Washington, gave as good an account of himself as a story teller as he did the next day as a coach. Elmer Layden's talk gave a hint of how tough a game to expect the following day. Others who spoke were William Deresch and Louis Roberts, mayor and city attor­ney, respectively, of Evansville, In­diana, and Red Barher, announcer for WLW, Cincinnati, who will broad­The Notre Dame Alumnus 
cast all the Notre Dame ^mes this year. Barber, who had just com­pleted broadcasting the World Ser­ies, gave his impressions of the games. 
Elton B. Crepeau, voice teacher at the University, and William Ziffem, sang. Bernard Voss and Eli Aron-son gave a 10-minute wrestling exhi­bition with Eddie Meehan acting as referee. A group of musicians from school played. 
Louis Bruggner and Frank Miles were co-chairmen of the affair. As­sisting them were Joseph Boland, Frank Coughlin, Robert Cahill, Harry Driggs, Edward Everett, Albert Frantz, Willard Fortier, Clarence Futter, Leo FoJnenko, Irving Gar­nitz, Norman Hartzer, Joseph Hem­phling, Irving Hurwich, Callix Miller, James R. Meehan, Lewis Murphy, Leo Newman, Eugene O'Brien, Har­old Weber, Oscar Zoss. 
Plans are almost complete as this is written for three exceptional pro­grams before the Wisconsin, Ohio State and Northwestern games. Alumni and their friends are urged to attend. 
Clarence W. Harding. 

ST. LOUIS 
Robert HcUnuiK. "30. 306 N. Grand Blvd.. President: David J. feillcy. Jr.. '30. 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21. Standard Oil Co.. Saginaw, Mich.. President: William 0. Hur­ley, '25, 117 Cherry St., Saginaw. Mich.. Secretary. 
I thought that there was no news and, consequently, have been lax in my duties as secretary. Tom Van Aarle brought it to my attention this morning. Here goes. 
Joe Friske is the Republican can­didate for prosecuting attorney and stands a verj' good chance to be elected. Joe Blanke's engagement was just announced the other day. The list is daily growing smaller. Ben Mahank and Louie Staelens are both working here at the parts manufac­turing division of Chevrolet, a new branch of General Motors recently transferred here. Art Kerns is now connected with Standard Oil in the accounting department. When I was in Detroit the other day I called Louie Conroy and John Blanke, both with the Michigan Bell telephone company. John has only recently been transferred there from Saginaw. 
Had dinner out at Gil Schaefer's and believe me, it was a good one. In our rival city down the river. Bay City, I have run into a few of the boys. Paul La Framboise was mar­ried about a month ago in Quebec, and is now with Consumer's Power in his home town. Joe Davey is with the Bay City Times. 
Although the boys do not yet know it, we are going to try a luncheon about once a month. It is harder 
in a small town than in a large one 
to get the boys together at noon. 
The last party was so well received 
that I believe we can have another 
in the near future. 
Bill Hurley. 
* 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Harry J. Corcoran, '27. 82 Port Watson St. Cortland. N. Y.. President: Donald J. Shee­hy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syractise. Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Melmore St.. Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Norbert Schaxf, '25, Toledo Edison Co., President: Joseph L. Wetii, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinoi<-Iowa) 
George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co.. Moline, HI., President: Elmer W. Besten. LL.B., '27, 1711 W. S'lXth St., Davenport, la-. Secretary. 
* 

TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Joseph Hunt, Binghamton. President, Wil­liam Yeager. '34. 18 Vine St.. Binghamton, Secretary. 
The funeral of Mr. Bartholomew 
J. Toomey was held at St. Paul's. Rev. D. Joseph Bustin celebrated the solemn high Mass, assisted by Rev. John Mahoney and Eev. William Mursfelder. Mr. Toomey was wide­ly known in railroad circles, and a member of the parish Holy Name Society. The club feels a very per­sonal loss. He is the father of three Notre Dame men — Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, Francis and John Toomey. 
Bill Ayres is now city editor of the Morning Sun. Bill did a very fine job as sports editor, and we wish him success in his new position. 
Joe Kane is very busy as a mem­ber of the local school faculty. John Kave is completing his medical stud­ies at McGill University. Dr. Francis Paul Kave is practicing in New York City. What a fine inspiration they have to follow in the work of their father, the late Dr. John Kave. Dr. Kave, who died last July, was a na­tionally famed surgeon, president and chief of the medical staff of Lourdes Hospital and a distinguished Catholic layman. Frank has already shown that he has surgical skill which brought his father recognition throughout the United States, and we know that John will soon be follow­ing in his footsteps. 
Art Hand, of Endicott, doesn't get to Bingo very often—guess his man­agerial duties keep him busy. 
We see John Donelly occasionally and Reggie McNamara less than that —^Reggie is busy every Saturday af­ternoon playing every game N. D. plays. 
Dr. John O'Brien gets a breathing spell from the Binghamton City Hos­pital once in a while. 
The lawyers are all five — John 
131920 

O'Lougblin, Pete Wacks, Ed O'Brien, Daniel McAvoy and Ted Griffin. Haven't seen much of Bill Page since Chief Crazy Horse was here. Bill Yeager. 
* 
TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lcnsinc, '30. 601 Bayard Park. Evansvillc. Ind.. President; Ralph F. Hccer. *25, 111 Washinffton Ave., Apt, D„ Evans­ville, Ind., Secretary. 
Members and friends of the local club purchased 40 tickets for the Ohio State game and intend to be present in a body. 

Present business before the club here now is making arrangements to purchase a cup to be presented to the city team that wins the city championship. There are three pub­lic high schools here and one Cath­olic, ^vith a great deal of feeling be­tween all of them. It is our inten­tion to make it a Notre Dame cup and permanent possession to the club that wins it three years. 
Some new-comers to the citj' and members of our club are: Jack Mc­Grath from Louisville, Harold Casey from Soutl\ Bend and Indianapolis, and E. Brown Miller from Louisville. Also, Tom Hartnett, who formerly hailed from Toledo, is here with the Gulf Refining Company. Tom mar­ried a local girl last April. 
Ralph Heger. 
* 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Genild F. Conn-ay, '32. D.ivid Inc., First Nat'l Bk. Bid e St. Paul, Minn., President: Joseph R. Schrocder. '31, 219 Fremont Ave., N., Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
* 

UTAH Raymond R. Brady, '24, 206 Kearas BIdp., Salt Lake City, President; Cyril Harbecke. 
•19, 64 F. St. Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
* 

UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kelley. '22. Peoples' Gas & Electric BIdjr., President; Joseph W. Fullem, '31. 1621 Neilson St.. Secretary. 
* 

WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy, '24, Templeton, Ind., Presi­
dent. Emmett Ferguson, '32, Wallace Bldff,, 
Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 

I wonder if you know that Paul Kennedy's farm is equipped irith a race track and that Paul has a small string of harness horses that he has been working out at various fairs this summer? The news, of course, is not the race horses but the race track, because it is bordered by a grove of shade trees and under those shade trees about a dozen hardy souls congregated this Summer to hash over their experiences at N. D. 
We had present Louie Crosson, of Oxford, Indiana, Doctors Keefe and Keefe of Earl Park, Paul Kennedy, our genial host. Butch DeVault of Eomney, Paul Pierce of Pine Village, Balfe Wagner of Lafayette, Sumner Ditton, Tommy Ward of Otterbein, Dr. Ryan of Louisville, who is intern­ing at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Laf­ayette, and your correspondent. 
Emmett Ferguson. 
New Club Is 
'orme< 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, *31, 723 Union Industrial 
BIdff., President; Donald F. MacDonald. '31. 
1631 W. 03urt St.. Sreretarj-. 
Just a short one on the organiza­tion of the Flint-Notre Dame Club. Haven't really done much yet except elect officers, but we expect to get under way soon—after election. 

The following are the members of the club: Francis Corr, '98; Vincent Ryan, '13; Daniel Traynor, '18; Janies Pearson, '26; Thomas G. Ran­dall, '25; Robert Tatham, ex. '28; Howard Hughes, ex. '28; Joseph Kel­leghan, '30; Edward Barch, '30; Steven J. Roth, '31; Jack Laux, '31; Don MacDonald, '31; Bill Minardo, '32; Robert MacDonald, '36; Joseph Weiss, '36; Robert Hnghler, '37; Bill Chapell, ex. '37; Bob Doyle, ex. '38; Edward Bush, '38; Paul Hughes, '38; Robert Cuthbertson, '39; Bud Sher­wood, '38; Charles Pilon, '39; and Paul Schiappicasse, '39. 
Francis Corr, was elected honorary president; Stephen J. Roth, presi­dent; Vincent Ryan, vice-president; and Don MacDonald, secretary-treasurer. 
As soon as we get our organiza­tion to functioning, you'll start hear­ing from us regularly. 
Don MacDonald. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. James D. Hayes, '17. 4612 Morjran Drive, Che\*y Chase, Md., President; J. Thomas G.ir\-er, '32, 1210 Perry St.. N. E., Wash­iuRton, D. C, Secretary. We were delighted to have A n Hughes with us for an impromptu dinner at the University Club. Due to the short notice and the fact that we had had a meeting a week be­fore we were unable to get a full crowd out, but did succeed in having all the nominees for club offices this year present in order that he might know them and ^'ice versa. He made a verj' delightful talk and told us all about his trip to Rome. We are all enthusiastic and looking forward to one of the best alumni years under his leadership. We expect to turn out. about a thousand folks from Washington for the Na\'y game on the 7th of Novem­ber, and also hope to see the boys on their way through and perhaps stir up a little doings. The following members were pres­ent at the dinner, and I will give you in their order the offices for which they are nominated and out of which the selection will be made at the next meeting to be held on November 10: President: Thomas Markey, '29; Bemie Loshbaugh, '29; Charles Man-nix, '31; Charles Farris, '33. Vice-President: Charles DeBarry, '24; Tom Carney, '25. 
Secretary: John Cullen, '22; Paul Beretz, '27; Tom McKevitt, '32. Treasurer: Robert F. Graham, '28; Andrew Auth, '34. In addition to the above, Dr. James 
A. Flynn, Dutch Bergntan and my­self were nominated as members of the Executive Committee. 
Jim Hayes. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson, '28. 32 Farmington Ave.. 
President; James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 
Ayer St., Secretary. 
* 
WESTERN WASHINGTON John J. Dempsey, '95, Dempsey Lumber Co., Tacoma. President: Robert L Pigott, '32, 3603 W. Manning St., Seattle, Secretary. 
* 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Joseph Bach, *26, Fort Pitt Hotel, Presi­dent; William Masarrall, '32, 1439 Franklin Ave.. Wilkinsburg, Secretary. Congratulations to Johnny Smith on that grand victory over Pitt. John Maher, '34, is doing publicitj' work for the Pittsburgh Pirates, pro football team. The Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board promoted Red Reardon, state manager, to a new and better job, with an increase in money and title, but no gun or badge. A Pittsburgh business school is claiming all of Larry O'Toole's at­tention right now. (Which reminds me that I can still lick any of the O'Tooles). We regret to say that Jim McDon­ald, a former student and brother of Dr. Bob McDonald, is in a local hos­pital. The Rev. Vincent P. Brennan (plain "Vince" to us) after being or­dained in St. Vincent's Archabhey, Latrobe, Pennsylvania, last June 14 and sajang his First Solemn Mass June 21 in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend, is now assisting in a parish in Tarentum, Pennsylvania, a small community outside of Pitts­burgh. We all hope that Vince will be a frequent visitor at the lunch­eons, since he is so handy. 
Our nomination for super sales­man: Bill Steitz. 
Phil Donovan is a member of the local branch of the Eastman Kodak Company. 
I received a brief note from John 

E. Kenney, '21, recently. He is vnth the Union Brewing Company of New Castle, Pennsylvania. 
Tom Conroy's company has moved him out to Evansville, Indiana. Bill Magarrall. 
* WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomas F. Howley, 'II. Citizens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. President; George Sar­gus. '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio. 
* 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn. President; Charles Cushwa, '31, 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
* WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Seton. S.C., S t Mary's College, Holy Cross, Ind.. President. Sister M. Angelice, B.V.M., Secretary. 

» »

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Dorothy M. Miller and Jerome J. Gushing, '35. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Maiy Lahey and Walter E. Cahill, '31. 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Gertrude Nowak and George Ireland, '36. 
Marriages 
Lieut. Joseph E. Wood, ex. '20, and Miss Elizabeth Compton were married at the U. S. Naval Academy Chapel, Annapolis, in September. 
Luis Rivera, ex. '20, and Miss Maria Ugarte Montes were married September 12, at St. Augustine Church, Santiago, South America. 
Miss Mabel Irvine and Norbin E. Arehart, '26, were married October 15, in St. Joseph's Cathedral, Bards-town, Kentucky. 
Miss Rosemary Maclntyre and J. Norbert Gelson, '26, were married October 3, in Port Richmond, New York. 
Miss Marjorie Opal Moore and John F. O'Donnell, '26, were mar­ried October 12, in Maysville, Ken­tuckj'. 
Miss Helen Lucy Cartier and Paul 

J. Wilhey, ex. '27, were married Oc­tober 10, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Mary Evelyn Burke and George J. Mead, '27, were married October 3, in Erie, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Ann Comerford and Richard 

L. Phelan, '28, were married Octo­ber 1, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Agnes C. Smith and Richard 

B. Parrish, '28, were married Octo­ber 1, in St. Peter's Church, Fair­mont, West Virginia. 
Miss Mary Trogerser and Claude 

H. Horning, '29, were married Octo­ber 10, in Akron, Ohio. 
Miss Anne Abernathy and Leon Zabriskie, '30, were married Septem­ber 19. 
Miss Loretta Sheehan and Felix 

W. Isherwood, Jr., '30, were married October 17, in Yokohama, Japan. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Kenney and Lawrence H. Halter, '31, were mar­ried September 12, in Akron, Ohio. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth O'Donnell and Arthur J. Kane, '31, were mar­ried October 12, in Joplin, Missouri. 
Miss Eleanor A. Yost and Richard 

J. Dericks, '31, were married Sep­tember 12, in Paterson, New Jersey. 
Miss Hele n Minczewski and Charles Spangenberg, '32, were mar­ried September 30, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marie Neil and William B. Murray, '32, wex'e married August 8, in St. Justin's Church, Hartford, Connecticut. 
Miss Jeanette -A.nwander and Ber­nard Roethele, '32, were married Oc­tober 8, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Indiana. 
Miss Nancy Reeves and William B. Dreux, '33, were married October 21, in New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Miss Margaret Smith and Ray­mond G. Reuland, '33, were married October 3, in St. Patrick's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Elinor Fi-ances Mason, and Paul F. Boehm, '33, were married October 9, in St. Joseph's Church, South Bend. 
Miss Virginia G. Meredith and James C. Galligan, '33, were married October 10, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Madeline Farren and William J. Walsh, Jr., ex. '34, were married September 5, in Philadel­phia, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Clara P. Hough and John P. Tressel, '34, were married October 17, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marietta B. Gannon and A. Donald Brice, '34, were married Oc­tober 17i in St. Paul's Church, Staten Island, New York. 
Miss Jeanne Weir and William H. Venneman, Jr., '34, were married October 12, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Dorothy McCarthy and Joseph 

G. Norton, '35, were married August 15, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marifran Stahr and Leo L. Palumbo, '36, were married October 3, in Payette, Idaho. 
Miss Betty Felder and Jules C. de la Vergne, '33, were married Octo­ber 27, in New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Miss Katherine Riordan and David 

J. Paskwietz, '34, were married Octo­ber 22, in Sacred Heart Church, Whiting, Indiana. 
Births 
Judge and Mrs. Al Scott, '22, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Mary Ellen, on September 3. 
Dr. and Mrs. Patrick C Doran, '23, announce the birth of a son in Sep­tember. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Breen, '23, announce the birth of a daughter, Louise Margaret, on June 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Barry, '25, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Joanne Marie, on September 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. T. Frank Murray, '25, announce the birth of a son, Frank, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Simonin, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Martha Adelaide, on September 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edmund McCIamon, '28, announce the birth of a daugh­ter. Flora Jeanette, on October 3. . 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Dean, Jr., '28, announce the birth of a son, Edward J., Ill, on September 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Powers, ex. '30, announce the birth of a son, Robert, Jr. 
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Aman, '30, announce the birth of a son, Andrew, III, on August 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Harrington, '30, announce the birth of a son on September 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Karl Brennan, '30, announce the birth of a son, Joseph, on October 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Rohr, '30, announce the birth of a son in Au­gust. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ruppe, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, Joan, on September 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. John W. Anderson, '31, announce the birth of a son, Peter A., on September 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Cronin, '30, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, October 21. 
Deaths 
Father John P. Tfaillman, CS.C, 74 years old, died in the St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, on October 5 after a brief illness. As professor, pastor, rector, and chaplain Father Thillman served in many capacities in the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was one of the five pioneers of the Congregation who, in 1902, founded what is now the University of Port­land, in Portland, Oregon. His final active assignment was as chaplain of Reitz Memorial High School in Ev­answUe, Indiana. 
Word has just reached the ALUJI­NUS of the death of Laurence Daly White, '28, of Wilmette, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, on May 8, 193G. 
Brother Michael Curtis F.S.C.H., A.M., '28, died in Seattle, Wash­ington, July 15. Brother Cur­tis was born in Ireland, and was a member of the Irish Christian Broth­ers. He held executive offices in many schools of his order in the United States and Canada, among them the principalship of Leo High School, Chicago, and the O'Dea High School, Seattle. 
Personals 
Before 1880 Secretary: Hon. T.H . Gal­lagher, Fttchburfr, Mass. 
1880-1885 S«:r<:tary: P"^" Robert M. 
Anderson, Circleville, Ohio. 
1886 S^^retary: Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton, Ohio. 
1887-1888 Secretary: J. L. Heineman, Conners\'iI!e, Indiana. 
1889 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Gamp New Orleans, Louisiana. 
1890-1893 Secretary: Louis P- Chute, 7 Univ. Av., Mmneapohs, Mmn. 
It goes without saying that the classes of '90-'93 are edified to learn of the bequest from Mr. Frank Phil­lips of an endowment to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame in honor of Fa­thers Thomas E. Walsh, Daniel H. Hudson and John W. Cavanaugh, and his wisdom in leaving the invest­ment thereof flexible in the hands of the trustees. 
Also the endowment to the Chair of Public Speaking on the part oJf the late William P. Breen, likewise honoring Father Martin J. Regan. 
These men were all choice factors in the upbuilding of Notre Dame; and the memory of acquaintanceship with them is highly prized. 
Special regrets are expressed over the death of Father Joseph J. Boyle, well beloved of the boys of the Twin Cities during his stay at the College of St. Thomas. 
Recent rapid development in the campus and the physical plant, as re­lated in the October ALUJINUS, indi­cates quite a transformation in af­fairs at Notre Dame. This should be interesting to all students of Notre Dame, recent and of early days. Among the many improvements re­lated the new Infirmary is of special 
. interest. It was first called to my special attention by Sister Mary Nicolena, a former veteran of the service in the old Infirmary, a spe­cial friend in Slinneapolis of nephews and nieces of the former Brother 
Leander  of  cherished  memory  at  
Notre Dame.  
*  

1894 Secretarj-: Htt-h A. O'DonncIl, 1 W. 67th St., New York City. The eminent class secretary writes as follows: "I heard recently from Frank L. Carney. His address is 1929 K. Street, Washington, D. C. Very occasionally I hear from Chris Fitzgerald. He is located at La Metropolitana 204, Havana, Cuba. Frank Bolton is still municipal judge at Newark, Ohio. Bill Correll, John­stown, Pennsylvania, is also in the land of the living, but no one would know it." 
Hugh was in Chicago a few weeks ago and, with Dick, '27, and John, '27, Halpin, motored to the campus for a brief visit. Here he met Fa­ther Carroll, Father Mooney, Father Hugh O'Donnell and Father Gene Burke, among many others. In Chi­cago he saw a good deal of Frank Pendergast, '27. Frank is with the American Book Company. 
* 
189S Secretary: Eustace Qillinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg.. San Francisco, Calif. 
* 
1898 Secretary: Wniiam P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Eev. J. A. MacNaraara. St Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Clement, Mich. 
Father MacNamara expected to be on the campus for either the Ohio State or the Northwestern game when he wrote recently from St. Jo­seph's Sanitarium, Mount Clemens, Michigan. -4.nd, of course, he was going to see the Army game—he's seen every one so far—as well as the Na^'y game. 
Father Mac reported that E. S. "Happy" Holland, '99, of Baltimore, with Mrs. Holland, had been in a serious auto accident last Summer. Both were injured, but fortunately-not critically, when their car was forced off the road and turned over twice. They have recovered satis­factorily. 
* 
1898 Secretary: William C. Kegler, 9th & Sycamore Sts., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
* 
1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duanc, 418 Jefferson Blvd.. Peoria, HI. 
* 
1900 Secretary: John W. EuBcman. Old First Bank Bide., Ft Wayne, Ind. 
* 
1901 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 1300, 139 N. Clark St, Chicago. Bl. 
* 
1902 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell, 110 S. Dearborn St., Box 3, Chicago, 111. 
1903 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
1904 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana. 
* 
1905 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, III. 
* 
1906 Secretary: Thomas A. tally. 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane. Wash. 
* 
1907 Secretary: Kev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
Father William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., was one of the chief figures in the regional conferences of the Association of American Colleges which was conducted at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, on October 20 and 21. Father Cunningham spoke on "A Challenge to the Survey Courses." 
* 
1908 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Building, Qeveland, Ohio. 
1909 Secretary: E. P. Cleary. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
* 
2910 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland. Ohio. 
1911 Secretary: Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, HI. 
Pedro de Landero, professor of Spanish in the University, tennis coach and fencing coach, spoke be­fore the Catholic Forum of South Bend on October 19 on the current situation in Spain. Pedro was pre­sented by Bemie Voll. Among those who took part in the discussion fol­lowing the address were Father Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., Louie Buckley, Francis Jones, Joe Donahue and Walter Langford. 
Two sons of former Notre Dame football stars are out practicing on Cartier Field. One is Buck Ryan, Sophomore son of Billy Ryan, '11, of Cleveland. The other is Bud Kelle­her. Freshman son of Bill Kelleher, '15, Lorain, Ohio, the first native­bom Irishman to win a monogram at Notre Dame. 
* 
1912 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
The new J. Elmer Peak school in Portage township, St. Joseph County, Indiana, was dedicated on October 1, with the ceremonies in the auditor­ium of the new school. Ground for the building was donated by Judge Peak, of South Bend, and his mother. 
The principal address for the oc­casion was given by Frank E. Hering, '98. Other speakers were Clarence 
E. "Pat" Manion, '22, and J. Clifford Polls, '25. Father Francis J. Wen­ninger, '11, gave the invocation. 
Don Hamilton and Ray Eichenlaub, '15, both of Columbus, Ohio, are of­ficiating in some of the Middle West's most important college footbal l games this Fall. Editorial wonder: what about the afternoon of October 31? 

* 

1913 Secretary: James J. Devitt, 921 En-BJnecrs* Bid?., Qeveland. Ohio. 
2924 Secretary: Frank H, Hayes. 406 Bank of America Bid?., Anatieim, Cal. 
* 

2925 Secretary: James B. Sanford, 1524 Farwell Ave., diicago. 111. 
2926 Secretary: Timotliy P. Galvin, First Trust BIdfr., Hammond, Ind. 
* 

1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St.. Eliiin. HI. 

Secretary McOsker reports as fol­lows : 
We are out to double the attend­ance record of any previous class at their 20th re-union, when the War Rent Class of '17 gets together next June at Commencement under the chairmanship of Bern!e VoII and Ed­die McOsker, vice-chairman. 
The following district chairmen have already promised to be on deck and to account for every classmate in their territory: John Urban Riley, Boston, Massachusetts; Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Howard Parker, Sacramento and southern California; Royal Bosshard, San Francisco and the North West; Danny Hilgartner, Chicago and en­virons. 
The class secretary would especial­ly like to hear from the following hermits: Ned Barrett, Kenneth, Boy-Ian, Johnny Campbell, Walter Ducey, Joe Gargan, Red Graham, Ducky Halmes, Bill Hynes, Al Kranz, Jerry . Miller, Leon Russell, Matt Trudelle and Les Yeager. 
* 

2918 Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave., S., Escanaba, Mich. 
* 

2919 Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street. Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Secretary: Loo B. Ward. 1012 Black 
Bids., Los Angeles. Calif. 

Newspaper reports in late Septem­ber had Slip Madigan stricken with a mysterious ailment as his St. Mary's team was practicing in California. The pony express hasn't brought in any more messages, but apparently Slip has recovered. If travel will help, there will be plenty of that for Head Man Madigan. He will be on the Notre Dame campus, incidentally, with his team for the Ohio State game, after playing Fordham and Marquette. 
* 

2921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Term­
inal Tower, Oevcland, Ohio. 

Walt De Gree is an architectural engineer with the Resettlement Ad­ministration in Washington, D. C, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
according to a note from Registrar 
Bob Riordan. 
Al Slaggert, of Detroit, is to give the memorial talk in honor of the dead of Saginaw Council of the Knights of Columbus on November 8. 
Dan Duffy writes from Cleveland: 

I had a very interesting letter from Leo Kelly, who is in the coal business in Syracuse. He wrote at great length regarding one Duke Kinney, one of the fellows of our time. 
I know that a good many from our class would be glad to know that I ran into Dave Hayes in Hartford last Summer. Dave has a fine big family of husky children. Besides the coal and lumber business he is giving some time to a distillery at Amsted, Connecticut. He spoke of having seen Joe Brandy a great deal, and gave a glowing report of Brandy's success in the newspaper and adver­tising business in Ogdensburg, New York. 
I have hopes of getting into Chi­cago very soon and seeing Paul Pfohl and Rog Kiley and a few others of the fellows of our time. 
It is my intention to attend the Ohio State - Notre Dame game this year. Of course, last year's team made all Ohioans very happy with their striking victory over Ohio State. While I think generally not too much is expected, we are keep­ing our fingers crossed for a repe­tition. 
* 

2922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Club, Buffalo, New York. 
The following is welcome news from Kid Ashe: 
John (Tuffy) Hart now resides in Buffalo. He is local superintendent of the Anchor Transport Lines, which company operates auto carriers for transporting Chevrolet autos from Buffalo to eastern markets. 
Joe Farley, the big G-man was last reported in Tennessee. Of course, Brother Joe may be many miles from Tennessee, in case you would like to locate him. 
We have just received, as this is written, a postcard from Belfast, Ire­land, dated October 7. The sender is Perc Connolly who, in company with his father, is visiting Ireland, England, Scotland, Denmark, France, Germany, and Italy. Perc expected to he back in" the home town, St. Louis, early in November. 
Since there is great interest in football these days, it is fitting that we should remind the boys of our classmates who are on the firing lines in various sections of the country coaching football. The statistics, of course, take in the season only up to the date of this writing. 
Buck Shaw, now in supreme com­mand at Santa Clara, since Clipper Smith assumed charge at Villanova, is directing one of the few undefeat­ed and untied West Coast teams. 

On the eastern front, Eddie Ander­son's Holy Cross team similarly is un­tied and undefeated. 
The University of Kentucky di­rected by Chet Wynne has lost one game so far, but Chet is coaching one of the outstanding backfield men in the country. 
Lighthorse Harry Mehre's Georgia team has a marred record, but it is risky business to count out the Horse. 
Good old Hunk Anderson expects his North Carolina State team to de­feat the University of North Carolina team in the Yale-Harvard classic of the upper Carolinas. 
The October ALU.MNUS in record­ing news of the Phoenix, Arizona Club gave us some very interesting news which we wish to repeat for the benefit of those who did not read the item. £. John Hilkert has received an appointment to the State Board of Accountancy, appointment being made by the governor of Arizona. Best wishes to you, John, and we wish you a happy reign in your new position and still greater recognition in the Department of Arizona. 
On the subject of congratulations, let us not forget John Huether of Schenectady who is the present dis­trict governor of the Alumni Associ­ation for New York State outside of the metropolitan district. 
Harold Weber is becoming a head­liner in the insurance business in South Bend. 
Aaron Huguenard's selection to the board of managers of the Indiana Bar -Association is pleasant news to his classmates. 
It is felt that the mayor of Terre Haute must have consulted Ray Keams before putting a crimp in the speech making activities of Candidate Browder. 
While on the subject of football coaches we did not forget our old pals Earl Walsh and Bob Phelan. We believe one or both to be at Ford­ham with Jim Crowley. 
Many times we are lambasted with queries, such as: "Where is Schwert­ley now?" or "How about Jerry Walsh?" or "Bill Purcell is a real scout; what ever happened to him?" or "What are the McDermotl* doing —Paul or George?" These are count­less other questions concerning the old gang would gladly be answered by the secretary, if, only, he knew the answers. Perhaps it is expecting too much to hope that some day one of the boys of '22 who is familiar with the doings of classmates whose names do not appear in this column from time to time, would send on a few words about such acquaintances or himself. We do not want any for­gotten men in the class of '22. Pho­tographs will be treated ^Wth scrupu­lous care, but must pass the censor. 
Saw Bill Gilchrist in Toronto a fortnight ago. Bill has been in the advertising business since he left Notre Dame. He has a prominent position with the best advertising company in the Queen City. 
Gene Kennedy is president of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. Gene furnishes the news that Frank­lyn Miller is associated with him in the trust department of the Bank of America. 
So Pat Manion is no longer a bachelor. Congratulations to your­self and Mrs. Manion, Pat. We all wish you both years of happiness. 
* 
1923 Secretary; Paul Castner, Edwards Homemobile Co.. South Bend. Ind. John Cochrane, of Toledo, was on the campus on September 29. 
Paul Castner -writes: I want to announce to the class of '23 that their secretary has come home. My address from now on will be the Edwards Home - Mobile Cor­poration, South Bend, Indiana, mak­ers of "America's Finest Home on Wheels." 

I have had a number of nice visits with Fathers John and Frank Cav­anaugh. Father Frank is now in charge of Dillon Hall and Father John is holding forth there, as all know, as Prefect of Religion. . Red Shea was here for the Wis­consin game. He is still in Dayton practicing law. Joe Troman was here for the Carnegie game and I saw him for a few minutes between halves. Joe is still in Chicago. 
John Montague was here the other day on a business call. John is with the Chicago Tribime, in charge of automotive advertising for a large section of the country. Like many other Chicagoans South Bend, Illinois is in their territory during the Fall season. 
I saw Ed Gould for a brief visit between halves at the Wisconsin game. Ed is in the florist business in Chicago, and is running a deluxe trip to Los Angeles for the Southern California game. 
I hope to see many of the class at the Northwestern game. Those who attend please give me a call. 
1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes, Wm. F. Ped­rick&Co., Emp. State Bide.. N.Y.C. 
1925 Secretary: John W. Scallan, 79 E. 
Adams St., Chicago, HI. 

Harry Stuhldreher was enthusias­tically received when he brought his team to the campus on October 17. He spoke at a huge student pep meet­The Notre Dame Alumnus, 
ing in the Gymnasium on Friday eve­ning, as well as at the smoker spon­sored bj' the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joe Valley. And his team on Sat­urday put up a harder battle than the score of 27 to 0 would seem to indicate. Harry seems to have struck gold with his letter to Wisconsin alumni following each Wisconsin game. It's a corker. 
Making a stop on his world tour, Tony Gonzales, of Manila, was on the campus for the Wisconsin week­end for a visit with his many good friends. From South Bend he went on to Cleveland and had lunch with the Cleveland Club and then saw the Pitt game in Pittsburgh on the fol­lowing Saturday. 
Tony had exciting tales of his ex­periences in the Spanish revolt. He was twice placed under arrest in Ma­drid, and it was necessary for the American consul to charter a special plane to get Tony and several others out of the countr}'. 
1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes. 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Orange, N.J. 
Frank Bon, president of the class, is now practicing law in 406 Majestic Building, Cleyenne, Wyoming, hav­ing resigned a year ago as secretary to United States Senator K. D. Carey, of Wyoming. 

Bob Stephan, '27, United States Gypsum Company, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, is out in search of the present address of one of his best friends, of Phil Cassilly, ex. '26, who formerly resided at 1230 Garvin Place, Louisville, Kentucky. Will Phil himself, or some one who knows of his whereabouts, communicate with Bob? 
John O'Donnell and his bride were in South Bend for the week-end of the Wisconsin game after their mar­riage in Maysville, Kentucky on the previous Monday, October 12. They went on to Chicago on their auto trip through the Middle West. 
1927 Secretary: Edmund DeOerq. 8118 Ellis Ave., Chicaso. HI. 
James Griffin Jay has just signed a seven-year contract with Universal Pictures to -write motion picture scenarios in Hollywood, according to a note from the South Bend Tribune. Scribner's published Jimmy's first book, "Mr. X," last January. 
Tom Conroy has been transferred to the Evansville office of the Acme Fast Freight, Inc. 
1928 Secretary: Louis Buckley, 718 E. Corby St., South Bend, Ind. 
Editors' note—Apologies to Secre­tary Buckley and to the class of '28 for the omission—unintentional, of 
November, 1936 
course—of Louie's super news from the October issue. Here it is—only a month late.) 
Martin Callagy was back to the campus in June for the first time since 1928. Bud is attorney for an association of utility holding com­panies, and is located in New York City. He mentioned several of the '28 men from whom we have not heard in some time. He said that Herb McCabe is now a married man, living in New York City, and work­ing for the Moody Investment Ser­vice. Vic Zimmerman and Larry Culliney are with the Federal De­posit Insurance Corporation. Lou Thornton is employed by the Guar­antee Trust Company in New York City. A number of '28 men were here for graduation including George Conner, who is vrith the McGraw Hill Publishing Company in New York City, Bill Jones, who is still prac­ticing law in Helena, Montana, and Joe Morrissey, who gave me an ac­count of the beha\'ior of the '28 men at the Ohio State game a year ago. 
Bernie Garber visited me this past Summer on his way to Milwaukee where he is now located. Bernie men­tioned that Dick Parriih is with a newspaper in Fairmont, West Vir­ginia, and he is writing plays in his spare time. I was glad to have a let­ter from Glen Hatch. Glen is with the Pennsylvania Dixie Cement Cor­poration in Rochester, New York. He is married and has a little girl two years old. Glen mentioned that John Nyikos is in SjTacuse now. Glen in­quired about John Voedisch. Ike is with the Hoosier Brewery in South Bend. 
We were in Marshfield, Wisconsin, this Summer in time to congratulate Bill Kerwin on the arrival of a baby boy, their second child. Bill is man­ager of the Montgomery Ward store there. 
I met Tom Traughber in Minneap­olis, where he is working for the 
U. S. government as a G-man. Jack Doyle, who is in the clothing business in Minneapolis and Bob Fogerty, who is teaching at St. Thomas Col­lege in St. Paul, were away while I was in the Twin Cities. 
Swede Schroeder did US a good turn when he suggested that Joe De­bott make a contribution a la Win­chell, to this column. Thanks to Joe, I have news for you concerning some of the men, mostly in New York state, about whom we have been seek­ing information since graduation. Joe is associated with the Phoenix Mu­tual Life Insurance Company in Geneva. His address is 171 West North Street, Geneva, New York. 
Joe Geraghty is in Rochester. Mar­ried and has one baby girl. Jim Berry runs a farm near Geneva. Married and has two children. John Lanen is living and working in Geneva..Em­

ployed by Thuron Optical Company. Tom Canty is with the John Hancock Life Insurance Company in Batavia. Ed Dean is married, and living in McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania. Joe Haney, of Newark, New Jersey, has recently opened his own law offices there. Gene Sebiltz, also of New­ark, is married and has two children. He is in the coal business. Don Cor­bett is practicing law in Brockport after a year's engagement in the New York Assembly. Don is married and has a hoy about a month old. Bar­ney Connolly, of Rochester, is an ac­countant with the Central Trust and Bank of Rochester. He has been married for the past four years. Bar­ney would like to know what has be­come of his roommate, Cal Oullette. Thanks Joe, for- the news. I hope you will not wait eight years before writing again. 
Now that Joe has done his part by bringing to light some of the '28ers for whom we have been looking, how about a line from some of the rest of you, especially, Joe Bairley, John and Pete Beirne, Franic Beggan, Jim Boehning, Roge Breslin, John Busche­meyer, Ed Carringer, John Carlin, Les Carrig, Russell Collins, AI Davis and Earl Dardes. 
Frank Donovan, his wife and three children were back in South Bend for a visit in September. Frank has re­turned to the Harvard Graduate Business School, and is living at 6 Belton Street, Arlington, Massachu­setts. According to Frank, John Fredericks is at Harvard this year taking a combination of law and business, specializing in taxation. John is married and has a hoy and girl, ages three and two. Prank men­tioned that he sees Mr. and Mrs. Jim Conmey quite often in New York. Jack Wingerter is \dth the March of Time in Chicago. 
After his visit in South Bend I had a letter from Bernie Garber from 1629 North Prospect Avenue, Mil­waukee. Bernie informed me of the marriage of Dick Parrish, and of Dick Greene of Muncie. Bernie gave me quite a hit of news concerning the newspaper men in the class. Walt Hugh Layne, who was recently mar­ried, is publishing two magazines, "Girls Detective Mysteries" and "Boy's Adventure Magazine." 
You probably noticed in last month's birth column that John Mc­Mahon is now a father. Congratula­tions, John. 
Bernie mentioned that he sees Paul Brust and Joe Griffin in Milwaukee quite_ often. Thanks for the news, Bernie. I'll write soon. 
Tony Ceres left a note this Sum­mer at my home while I was away on vacation. Sorry to have missed you, Tony, as I would like to have some news from you concerning the New Jersey '28 men. Tony promised to stop next year when he expects to he in Indiana again. 
* 

1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin Street. Indianapolis. Ind. 
Francis Jones, South Bend attor­ney, ran afoul of the law immediate­ly upon his return from four-month world tour. He was arrested in a downtown drug store by two police­men, handcuffed and hauled to the court house in the police .patrol. There he was charged with running out on a board bill in China. 'Twas, of course, just a bit of a "welcome home" arranged by his pals. 
The happiest "John Smith" in the 

country on October 17 was undoubt­
edly John Smith, '29, coach of the 
Duquesne University team which beat 
Pittsburgh that day. The warmest 
congratulations of all his classmates 
go to him on his phenomenal accom­
plishment. 
* 

1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth St.. New Kensin^on, Pa. 
Mr. and Mrs. Franklin O'Marah were on the campus the Carnegie weekend to attend the game and to visit Mrs. O'Mera's brother, Kevin O'Gorman who is a Freshman this year. 
Professor Joe Apodaca addressed the League of Women Voters in South Bend on October 7, discussing the co-operative movement. 
Jim Leahy, with his wife, was on the campus on September 22. The Leahys' new address is 620 Harrison Avenue, Oak Park, Illinois. 
Bernie Conroy writes: I am having a hard time trying to dig up any news of my classmates just now. I hope to hear about a lot of the fellows at the Pitt game. 
Jim Malloy and his wife are com­ing to the Pitt game from Charles­ton, West Virginia. 
Gus Bond! called in Pittsburgh last Summer while making a trip to New York. 
Dr. Matt Ward has located in the Union Station Bldg., at Brownsville, Pennsylvania. Jim Dodson, Bill Steitz. and I expect to take in the Ohio State game. 
I've heard that Jack Cannon was making political speeches in Co­lumbus. 
* 

1931 Secretary: John Bcman. 828 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
John Bergan came through with this grand contribution for the Octo­ber issue, but unfortunately it was temporarily mislaid. Sorry, John! 
Since the class reunion there seems to have been a dearth of news come to this correspondent concerning members of the class of '31. Bill Morphy is with the Gulf Oil Com­pany in Mexico City, is married, and the father of a boy bom the latter part of June. Maurice Regan is work­ing in the Medical Center in New Orleans and often sees the Times-Picayune scrivener, Austin Boyle, who is doing a very good job as amusement critic. Frank O'Brien an­nounces that he is being kept very busy practicing law in Mansfield, and is located in the Richland Forest Bldg. (Adv). Ken FitUeigh is work­ing in Stevens Point, and tells me that he spent a very delightful vaca­tion in ole' Nashville. C F. Hancock is in the Memphis department of the American Tobacco Company, and is already looking forward to the 1941 reunion. 
Bill McCarthy has a new job with the engineering department of the Kansas City Power and Light Com­pany. Louie Godoy is still in Ha­vana, and plans to lake in a game or two this Fall, business permitting. Frank Flannery is with the Republic Creosoting Company in Seattle. Frank Seward is directing a Little Theatre Group in Hollywood. Among the re­cent benedicts from the class are: Bud Gies in Stanford, Montana, Charlie Kaplan, Plainfield, New Jer­sey, Ed Murray, Heinie RoeU and Ed Kosky at Notre Dame this Sum­mer. 
Recent fathers: Bob BaUe, twin daughters; Frank McGreal, daugh­ter; Frank Kosky, son; Paul Brant, son; Don MacDonald, son. But after all naming fathers is a ticklish sub­ject for me; I don't know them all. 
Bernie Thompson, the big Chicago florist, tells me that his family num­bers four, and all are well. Ron Slack is still in Lockport, New York, and is looking forward to seeing Fa­ther Motsett, who, by the way, is lo­cated in Canton, Illinois, and many of the other boys at the Ohio State game. 
News from our Grand Rapids scribe discloses that Joe Boyland is getting along well in the general in­surance business. George Jaekoboice, recently married, is president of the Monarch Road Machinery Company; Harry Merdzinsln is practicing law, and Joe Deeb is with the HOLC. At the Lakeside Cafe, 12th and St. Clair Streets, Cleveland, can be found one of the largest '31 groups at one time in the country. Led by genial AI Grisanti, proprietor, almost anyone can be located, including Larry Krai, office equipment tycoon; Dr. Gannon, six months to go on his intemeship; Joe Gavin, formidable athletic direc­tor of Cleveland's greatest high school; Slip Van Rooy, Sarge Ra­leigh, Tom Yarr, Jack Carberry and even an occasional visitor is John (Finance) Dorschel from far-away Rochester. It's a great place to go if you are in Cleveland. 
J. Carlton Snllivan is Still doing the country in the interest of educa­tion, but it's only textbooks. Carl 
Cronin has been retained as rugby coach at Calgary with a substantial increase in pay. He may be reached at the Club Cafe, Calgarj', Alberta, and would like to hear from the old gang. Maurice Goodeve also came down on a chinook from the diadem of Canada for the reunion. Dan Williams completes his law course at Cornell this semester and then re­turns to Oswego or Washington. 
Jim Doyle and Benny Oakes cer­tainly deserve a lot of credit for the work on the Reunion. They surely got the Chicago delegation down 100%. Jim is in the insurance busi­ness, and has promised to keep the writer posted on the doings of the Chicago gang. Ben is still with a roofing company and sees Pullman Eddie Ryan and International Har­vester Maloney quite often. Barris­ters Ponic, Bohling, O'Malley, Mc-
Greal, Pendergast, Rich, Knox and 
the other boys are still getting their fees. 
Dave Rusk is with the Parks De­partment, and Dan Egan and Leo Gartland are in the engineering de­partment of Mayor Kelly's great town. By the way, Egan's promised letter never arrived. 
Jack Saunders is still doing his 
best to keep the city of Newark laundry-minded and has not fallen from the bachelorhood. Jim Kear­ney is in the editing department of Callahan's Law Book Company, and has written many important digests on many of the new laws. This month happens to be Tom Monahan's busy season as the broom com in Areola has his time well taken up. Bill Chawgo is with the Internal Rev­.enue Department, Chicago, and still commutes daily to Aurora. Bob Baer is preparing construction statistics, and Bill Redmond is in the invest­ment business in Chicago, while Frank Chambers is with the First 
National Bank. 
Jack Dempsey is still looking for 
his hat, and is with his father in the law business in Oshkosh. John Mc­Intyre is head of the office at the Sibley Machine Company in South Bend. He is a benedict also. Larry Mullins and family were in South Bend the latter part of August, and promised that his St. Benedict's Ra­vens will be one of the best small college football teams in the Middle West. His team meets St. Marj''s College coached by Ed Krause in Chicago on November 14, at the 139th Field Artillery Armory in an indoor night game. 
Now that this column is launched once again more news for next month would be greatly appreciated. Doesn't any member of this class ever in­herit any money, marry any movie stars or go over Niagara Falls in a barrel? If you don't, drop a line about yourself anyway. 
Jim Doyle writes interestingly as follows from Chicago: 
Kelly Powers made a trip to the Coast this Spring and met a few of our class. Frank Leddy is married and has two children to keep him busy when not running his father's clothing store. Ed Massa, ex-cheer­leader, is married and in the insur­ance business at Hayward, California. Ed Sheeran, I understand, is doing quite ^yell at the Local Loan in Long Beach,'Califomia. Mike Teders is in Chicago again selling for the Dicto­graph Company. His pal, Larry En-right, has been transferred to Mil­waukee, where he keeps Bert Malon­ey company. Fred Swint, ex '31, spent a week-end in Chicago this Summer. Papa Paul Grant and his wife were here during the Easter hol­idays. Tom Monahan dropped in the olBce while spending a little time in town. 
We certainly enjoyed seeing the Rev. Bourke Motsett and Ralph DaU ton this Summer. While in Water­town, Wisconsin, I had a pleasant visit with Rev. Patrick J. Hagerty, C.S.C, who is looking well. He in­vites any of the boys passing through Watertown to visit him. Spent an evening at the home of F. X. Mur­phy, Jr., in Manitowoc. He is now a salesman for the Eastman Manu­facturing Company, and Jias two little Irish kids by the names of Pat and Mike. 
I stopped in at Stan Obelenus' tavern on the south side recently. Dr. R. Clark Benkendorf is now on the staff of the Oak Forest Infirmary in Chicago. 
I can't think of anything more to relate for the column. Perhaps after our next dinner one of the boys here should have some new tales to spread. The dinner we had this Summer was so successful and enjoyed so much by those present that we decided to get together the '31 men and repeat the affair. 
I attended the Carnegie game but due to the necessity of departure im­mediately after the game I didn't have much chance to look around or 
•^nsit the .A.lumni office. 
A fine letter from Dick Donoghue accompanied his check for dues. He wants credit given to Lew Thornton for Lew's "missionary spirit" in pro­moting the dues-paying feeling. Here's the credit. Lew! (What's your secret of success?) 
Dick is still with the American Steel & Wire Company as a sales­man, and finding lots of use for his mechanical engineering training. He resides at 310 Riverside Drive, New York Citj'. 
Registrar Riordan reports that Al­fred E. Gall is now attending the City College of New York. No fur­ther details at the moment. 
Father Philip H. Schaerf, CS.C, 
'31, has succeeded Father Vincent Mooney, CS.C, '16, as director of the Catholic Youth Organization ac­tivities in St. Joseph County. Father Mooney has assumed similar duties in Fort Wayne. Father Schaerf was ordained a year ago. 
Albert W. Roche, '31, was recently appointed examiner in the New York State Division of Probation, with headquarters at -Albany. With Leon­ard F. Horan, '31, in the same office, and Francis J. D'Muhala, '31, a chief probation officer in nearby Connecti­cut, it would seem as if our 1931 so­cial work graduates have the "crime situation" in that area prettj' well in hand. 
Joseph W. Harney writes t"o give his present address: Apartment 31, 13406 Broadway, Harvey, Illinois. He is teaching general science and chemistry in the Thornton Fractional High School and Junior College in Harvey. 
193 2 Secretary: Herbert Giorgio, 9005 188th St, HoIIis, UU New York. 
Father Vince Brennan has received 
his first assignment in the Pittsburgh diocese. He is assistant in St. Peter's parish in Tai-entum, 22 miles from Pittsburgh, and has already become associated with the local club of which Bill Magarrali is secretary. 
A letter from Bob Streb brings the following news: Paul Belden, Jr., seeing the mid­dlewest as representative of Belden 
Brick Company. Richard Conley 
selling general merchandise for M. Conley Company. Jack Walsh of Massillon, Ohio, leaving for Florida soon, -nith a new position. Myself —Stomping the County of Stark to hold a deputy county treasurer's job for four more years. Saw Dan Can­non several times in Canton on busi­ness out of Cleveland. Tom Conley made quite a hit at a Massillon High football game three weeks ago. 
Herb Giorgio with a fine spirit is already booming the Five Year Re­union next June. He writes: 
Now that Autumn is upon us we are all looking fonvard to the foot­ball season with a bit of anxletj', cog­nizant of the fact that graduation de­pleted the ranks considerably. daresay most of us would like to he sitting in a classroom in the good old Main Building aware of the fact that as soon as the bell rings we could see the boys and get together for a game of touch football, a walk around the lakes, a hull session, in­door baseball, or what have you. It is almost five years since many of us have been back, and this June is the occasion when we can live over again four wonderful years in a few glor­ious days. 
Go now to the nearest railroad sta­tion, ascertain the fare to South Bend (or ask your Dad—^he no doubt 

November, 1936 
remembers it) and start saving. The more that turn out in June the bet­ter bull sessions we'll have. Jack Cooper and Tom Magee have offered to assist me in contacting the boys, and I am taking this opportunity to accept their kind offer. I'd also like to have the following men, and all others who care to, communicate 
•ivith me and act as contact men. 
Gilbert Augustine, George Baden, Sal Bontempo, Ed Britz, John F. Bums, AI Capter, Jim Carmody, Dan Carney, Roy Catizone, Vince Cava­naugh, John Cole, Jim Collins, John Colville, 
Gene Connelly, John Connolly, Mike (Dr.) Crawford, Joe Dalsey, Ray DeCook, Frank Denney, Chuck Dour, Ken Donoghue, Vince Dono­hoe, Jim Dubbs, £. Dueer. 
George CuUinan, Phil Dunleary, Myles Mullin, Dominick Napolitano, Charlie Nash, Frank Norton, Joe Nu­gent, Ed O'Connor, Jim O'Connor, Bart O'Hara, Ed O'Malley, Frank O'Malley, Vince O'Neil, Jim O'-Shaughnessy, Paul O'Toole, John Perone, Joe Petritz. 
Virg Phillips, OIlie Powers, Char­lie Quigley, Pat Quirk, Jim Reidy, Jerry Reidy, Frank Reilly, Ray Roach, George Ryan, Bill Ryan, Ben Sahatz, Leo Schiavone, George See­binger. 
Joe Sinbule, Bill Slader, Bob Streb, Abe Terry, Hank Tholen, Pete Tro­lio, Vance Uhlmeyer, Bill Waltz, Al Waters, Bob Waterson, Herb Whelen. 
Willie Weir, Vince Whelan, Ar­nold Wiener, Will Willigan, Joe Wil­lis, Hack Wilson, Tom Yarr, Jose Zaborte. 
Let's get the class of '32 out of the depression •ivith a swell reunion in June. I wish you would all drop me a postcard, and I'll send you the names and addresses of a few fellows in your respective bailiwicks. 
I'd also like to hear from the stal­warts of the class of '32.5. 
See you at the Penn Grill the night before the Army game for a "Little Reunion." 
* 

1933 Secretary: Donald Wise. 1X0 Pleasant St.. Jolict, III. 
Tom O'Meara is reported running for district attorney in native West Bend, Wisconsin. He got through the primaries and, as this is written, is looking forward to a successful November outcome. 
Russell O'Shea, '35, writes from Cairo, Illinois: 
I was glad to read again of Jack Lynn and his present whereabouts in the Clarence Saunders organiza­tion in Memphis. My best regards to Mrs. Lynn. 
The other day I had word from a The Notre Dame Alumnus 

friend of mine who recently returned from a brief visit in Mississippi, tell­ing me of the present whereabouts of Pat Parnell Bums, of Natchez, Miss. Pat is working in a wholesale grocery house in his home town. He's going to write to me sometime. 
Glad to read, too, of the news from Jack Finneran and other pals of the class of 1933, fellow Alumni Hallers of 1932. Best regards to Maury Mulville and George Rohrs. 
Appreciating as I can after the serious illness which caused my back­door graduation from N, D. in 1933 any sickness or ailment which keeps one from being up and about, I cer­tainly feel for old Charley Preston 'way out there in Alasky. Hope you're all O.K. by now, Charley. 
I'm wondering about Jim Guilfoil, Gene Malley, Jack Murray, Billy Burke, Ed Lottes, Johnny Ross, '32, and some others such as Harold Pohl­meyer and Julius Kiraly. I guesS that they've all set about caning their niches by this time. 
I had a very nice visit of short duration with Bill Ford, now of the Congregation of Holy Cross, in St. Louis on Labor Day. Bill was on his way from his home in Douglas, Ari­zona, where he had been on his two week's vacation. He is now down at the Catholic U. at Washington, D. C. Lloyd Teske is there with him. 
I heard that Lionel Smith was as­sociated with the Halsey, Stuart Com­pany in New York City. 
As for my own work, .well, I mast 

say that the insurance game is plenty 
tough in the initial stages. Although 
I have been in it long enough now to 
get a foothold in the field in my own 
territory, representing the Massachu­
setts Mutual Life Insurance Com­
pany, it will be hard sledding for 
quite some time yet. 
* 

2^34 Secretary: James Moscow. 2320 N. Lawndalc Ave.. ChicaRO, HI. 
John Ruppel has moved from Shaker Heights, Cleveland suburb, to Chicago, and is residing there in the Beachview Hotel, 7645 North Sheridan Road. 
Ralph Else came West for the 

Carnegie game. 
Albert Saleh of Tyler, Texas, was married to Miss Marie Campbell of Peoria, Illinois on June 8. They are living in Peoria where Al is working for Hiram Walker Distilleries. Mr. and Mrs. Saleh were on the campus for the Carnegie game. 
Ed Weinheimer is running a gas 

station in his home town of Ironton, 
Ohio. 
* 

1935 Secretary: F. C. Hochreltcr, Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Anthony Kucharich ha s bee n added to the staff of St. Hedwige's 
high school in South Bend as a teach­er of English and social sciences. 
A press notice from Babspn Insti­tute, Babson Park, Massachusetts, says that Ray Bambenek is enrolled there for a one-year intensive course in business administration. 
Fred Carideo is with the Bendix Corporation in South Bend, and re­cently made a business trip to Wash­ington, D. C. 
Al Torribio is doing graduate work at the University of Southern Cali­fornia, and is West Coast correspond­ent for Jim Cottin, South Bend Neivs-Times sports editor, as well. Al confirms the reports of a really strong Southern Cal team. 
John Britton is in law school at Harvard, and is residing at 4 Hurl­burt Street, Cambridge, Massachu­setts. 
Here is the monthly volume from that sizzling sociologist of South Bend and Notre Dame: 
The '35ers turned out en masse for the first three games played, the Carnegie Tech and Wisconsin battles drawing the largest crowds from our ranks. We realize that our eyes did not reach all of you here, but, among those that we did. see on the week­end of October 3 were: Tom Flynn, Bill Fromm, Joe Argus, Bus Breen, Karl Fulnecky, Hal Goodin, Tony Andreoni, Gene O'Brien, Mart Hen­dele, Cy Wiggins, George Demetrio, Tom La Londe, John Annas and Link Wuner. 
Tom La Londe drew the only spot on the Washington program, but for the Wisconsin "outing," which inci­dentally was Cotillion week-end, the gang turned out again. John Kava­nagh, John Annas, Ray Brett, Herb Nadeau, Tom Thompson, Gene O'­Brien, Jim O'Mera, John Heywood, and Jack Shodron. Of course the "King" was there too. 
We think that the "top-notch" po­sition (this month) goes to our Fran Dunn, a law student on the campus. Amid the quiet of Founder's Day, early in the morning, Fran took to himself a charming wife in the Log Chapel. The "love-birds" (we prom­ised it to you, Fran) are living at the moment in the Momingside. Our very best to you, Fran, for much suc­cess at the law and the married life. 
While we are on the "vital statis­tics" of the class, it would be well to give yon the "dope" on another of our boys who took the leap in August 
— the 8th. — Frank T. Magnire. He married a South Bend girl, and is living in South William Street. Frank has been working at Bendix for sev­eral years and is, at the moment. 
Congenial! Convivial! Convoyed! 
Two luxurious all-expense trips to the 
NOTRE DAME-U.S.C. 
and 
NOTRE DAME-ARMY 
games at New York and Los Angeles 
These trips are personally conducted by Georse M. May­pole, '03 and Edward W. Gould, '23. 
Army trip leaves Chicago via New Vork Central on Nov. 12 — returns via Washington, arriving Chicago, Nov. 16 — all expenses, as low as_^/8 
California trip leaves Chica­go Nov. 28th, stop-overs 2 1/2 days in Palm Springs, 3 days in Los Angeles, I day in San Francisco, arrives Chicago, De­cember 10th — all expenses, as low as .$175 
For circular giving complete details write or wire— 
GEORGE M. MAVPOLE 2204 S. Loomis St., or 
EDWARD W. GOULD 1313 W.Randolph St. 
CHICAGO 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
head of the Heat Treating depart­ment. 
One morning late in September we ran into John Ryan (Framingham, Massachusetts) in the "little yellow P.O." John had just come west from native New England to hunt down a job. Just before the Wisconsin game we again met John in South Bend. His luck had been following him, for he informed us that he is working in the Indiana Employment Service in the city. He is tied up with the De­partment of Labor and has a civil ser\nce job. 
While on the Ryan Brothers, we pass along to you the info on frere William. Francis William Ryan has been employed for some time with the -Associates Investment Company as an accountant, also in South Bend. 
A short while back Johnny Jordan was seen in the caf with a healthy looking protege from Mount Carmel in Chicago. John is athletic director at the Chicago high school and is also teaching several courses, among them 
U. S. History. 
Amid the hea^•J^ blue smoke of the caf, one evening late in September, our eyes met those of Moe De Lia. Our glance led to conversation, and we learned that Moe was on his way back to Loyola Med School to join Fred Follmar in the second year of the healthy pastime of carving ca­davers. 
All of which brings to mind three more of our number who are contin­uing their medicine this year. Andy Dineen, Jim Coll, and Joe Norton have returned to Jefferson Medical School, according to reports on our desk. 
Tom Thompson continues his legal studies at Michigan as does John Kavanagh. (This is a correction of our "info" last month on John, in which we said we thought he was doing his legal absorbing elsewhere.) 
In the caf over the Wisconsin week-end, we had a moment with Ray Brett. Ray is in the advertising school at Ann -4.rbor. Incidentally, we think Ray has changed his diet. It was either that or heavy clothes, but he certainly is outgrowing his '35 stature — horizontally. 
Having breakfast with Ben Oakes one morning, we gleaned the news on brother Ray who is with Sears in Canton, Ohio. Ray Oakes is now the advertising manager for the Canton store. Ray is expected for the Ohio State game. 
The carrier pigeons bring messages about those of our flock in "far-off lands." We'll start with the closer and move outward. Frank Kopple­berger is with the Auto-Lite Com­pany in Bay City, and doing well, we hear. 
Carl Ener is still with the Pictorial Paper Box Company in Aurora, Illi­nois, but, here is news — he has been 
November, 1936 
promoted. To what, we have not learned. "But, patience our friends, we shall soon discover. 
Al Rubly is in the office of the 
W.P.A. in Aurora at the moment. We query as to whether this is the accurate dope or whether Al is still technician for the same outfit in Eockford, as we reported for you last December. (How about a veri­fication, Al?) 
To return to "good old New York" for a brief, yes, we said brief, sec­ond. Our agents tell us that Jim Shields is Blackstoning it at Fordham Night School this Fall. Jim is, how­ever, retaining his position with the National Bureau of Casualtj' and Surety Underwriters in the city. (You have a busy day, Jim. Hope you and Frank Weldon are staying away from Jim Ross' after "missed radio programs" across the street.) 
We have two apologies to make in this trip to the press. The first goes to Mitch Saleh. Not long after our last bit of "Winchelling" came on the streets, a long epistle lay in our 
P. O. box from Houston, Texas. It seems that we had missed friend Mitchell in our Summer clearing pro­cess. His letter of early Spring had gone unanswered. He WTote to in­form us of our had secretarial work, but, he also volunteered news that goes far toward making this number a healthy one. 
Mitch is now working and residing in Houston where he is with the Houston Lighting and Power Com­pany, as design engineer. Mitch moved to the Texas city early in May. (We had that dope from your brother Albert, Mitch, when he and his wife were here for the Carnegie game). Mitch dressed himself up in "Best Man" clothes for his brother's wedding last June 8. -A.1 is of the class of '34. 
From Mitch we discover that there are several of our crew doing their paddling in the southland. Tom Standish, with whom Mitch is living, is still working for the Houston or­ganization now employing the "Tyler boy." 
Julian Quinn is working for the Gulf Production Company in Rosen­berg, Texas about 30 miles south of Houston. The three "tall" Texans have been Centennialing during the Summer, over week-ends. 
The South called, and Ray Keat­ing answered. We had you in Wis­consin last time, Ray. Nothing like this modem age of mobility. Our '35 senior track manager is keeping the books straight for the Saint Ger­main Company, geologists in Houston. 
Tom Hughes from Beaumont, Tex­as, is in Houston these days election­eering for the Republican Party. Tsh, tsh, Tom. 
Vic Arcadi called the Texas gang one morning as he was passing time 

November, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
|S|MiiiiiiitiiiiiiimiMiniiiMiiimiittititininiiiiiiiiinniiiitiimiiiiiiitmiiiimnmnnimn«iiiii • iiiiiti 
i GREATER NOTRE DAME, buildins for the future as well as the present, demands | i the best in materials and workmanship. Limited resources command that econ-I I omy accompany that quality. ALUMNI can do no better than profit by the Uni-f I versity's experienced judgment. I 
B-• 
Q i iititii iiiiiatiii*tiiit»iiniii»*iiiMiiiitHiiit*ii 
SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION CO.. Inc. 
General Contractors 

I 518-22 E. Sample St. SOUTH BEND. INDIANA Tel. 3-3113 I 
UllltllllllllllllllltlllllMIIIIIII • iiti imiiiiii«iiiniinnimiiMnmiiMiimiHiiiiniiiiiint>iinmiiimiiitiiimp| 
ii>iiiiiiii«iititiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iminiiuiiiimtiiiiimmiimiiiiinittiiiiniitupl 
B"" "H H"" 
SUCCESS 

to greater building program of Notre Dame J. C. LAUBER & CO. 
Sheet Metal 
OIney J. Dean Steel Co. 
V 
REINFORCING STEEL 

504-08 E. LaSalle St. Tel. 3-4960 
Chicago James R. Martin, '23 South Bend, Indiana 
miimnimmiitmnntimnininmrn 

3.. HQ B.. 
I tMiiiit •••••))•••• tiiiM)iai«iiiiiii«tiiittiaiiiMHiiiitii)t|~| 

I SERVICE TO INDUSTRY AND TO THE HOME I = E. R. NEWLAND CO. 
GENERAL ASBESTOS & 
Builders Supplies 
SUPPLY CO. 
1NC0RP0R.\TED 

Builder's Supplies, Facing Bricit, Home Insulations, Steel Windows, Garage Doors, etc 
ROOFING, SHEET METAL 
COAL and COKE 
AND INSULATIONS 

128 S. Main St. Tel. 3-2092 140! S. Main St. TeL 3-2173 
South Bend, Indiana South Bend, Indiana 
EjiHlHtlluiiitlll(ll)»lll)ll*l))*tll*>llU*Mtll*i*tl>l>itlll»l<*lll*ll<ltliilll)tlituilltillllllliiillltliiiili{a1 ["lili 
between trains. Vic is back at Johns Hopkins Med this term. We wonder if Roy Scholz is with him. (How about it, Eoy?) 
And now, to our second apology. It goes to Gene O'Brien. Gene sez we did not mention him in "our chatter." As we check our files against last year's ALUMNUS, we dis­cover that Gene was recorded as be­ing "with the O'Brien Varnish Com-
NEW 1937 
CR-0^-ttV 
RT^VO+Q 
Students' Special The Fiver 
• 5 Tubes # Standard Broadcast 
• Police Calls # Dynamic Speaker 
$19.99 
DAVIDSON SALES CO. 432 S. Mich. St. Ph. 3-4242 Open Hvenings 
WESTWARD HO! 
Los Angeles Special 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
UNIVERSITY OF SO. CALIFORNIA 
Prom South Bend, Ind. 
One in Two in One in 
upper lower each lower ?99.53 ?101.55 5109.53 From Chicago, 111. Orie in Two in One in upper lower each lower $96.03 S97.95 $106.03 
We will have a few compart­ments and draT\-ing rooms on which we will quote special rate upon application, for those de­siring this type of Pullman 
service. 
Included in the Above Cost: 
Railroad ticket from city named and evep' item of ex­pense from point where you join the party until you return to point where you leave party and rail ticket back to your starting point. 
For Information 
EARL J. REDDEN 107 W. Colfax, So. Bend, Ind. Phone 3-1607 
pany in South Bend" in the January number, page 116. Gene, at the mo­ment, is doing himself well selling paint and varnish in the "home com­pany." 
Before the Wisconsin game, we ran into Jim O'Mera in front of Walsh Hall. Jim is undoubtedly eat­ing the proper vitamins for he is surpassing our friend Ray Brett in rotundity. We told you last year that Jim was amusing the dairy maids of Wisconsin. At the moment we stand corrected. As we read his busi­ness card, we find that he represents 
W. M. Sprinkman Corporation of Milwaukee, who make "equipment and supplies for Milk Products In­dustries." 
We told you in our last that our trunks were as yet unpacked and that we had our correspondence under lock and key. Here is a passage from a letter dated Chicago, 111., June 16, 1936, and sent to our Columbia ad­dress. "I thought you might like to know the activities of one of the 
M.E. group who I ran into the other day. He is Paul A. Dougher, presi­dent of the N.D. branch of the 
A.S.M.E. for '35. He is serving the Indiana Harbor, Indiana, Works of the American Steel Foundries in an engineering capacity dealing with construction, repair and maintenance of a steel foundrj'." The letter goes on to say that Paul delivered a paper on the subject of "Cleaning Cast­ings," ("which occasioned favorable comment in the various trade jour­nals") at the American Foundry-man's Association Convention in De­troit on May 4. 
The curious thing about the above letter is that it is signed "Hank." There is no address in Chicago and no hint as to whom the mysterious "Hank" might be. We appreciate your interest in our work, but, how about another letter, "Hank," just to let us in on your identity? 
We understand that our friend Vince Gorman has been sojourning with his mother and sisters in Ber­muda and has just recently returned to his native Kingston. (How about a letter, Vince?) 
Jack Edwards is with the Tarry­town Recreation Commission, Tany­town. New York. His home is at 46 Pine Street, Yonkers. 
We are looking forward with in­terest to the visit on the Ohio State weekend of many of the gang. Jack Shodron writes that he will be in town, and, John Clark and Art Kor­zeneski are planning to bunk with Tom and the "scribe." We have not as yet decided where the Chicago barristers are going to sleep, but, we were thinking the garage would be comfortable these cold nights. 
Last month we told you that we were living "temporarily" with Tom Proctor off - campus. The prcxie showed himself to be such a genial host that we decided to "move in per­manently." We are "holding court" at 1014 North Eddy Street. No of­fice hours are posted but nights will usually find us in. Well, once in awhile. 
Tom, incidentally, has been telling the Elkhart W.P.A. workers why they should vote the Democratic ticket. We might recommend that he is quite a scientific speech writer. We should know. 
We are off to a good start for the '36-'37 season. How about keeping up the old pepper? We've got com­petition now with Tom Murphy fol­lowing us with his '36 column. Let's give Tom a run for his money and keep the column as big as it was last year. We can have the space if we have the news. We're counting on you. 
See you at the Array game — stu­dent trip — November 14. 
* 
1936 Secretary: Thomas J. Mui-phy. 15 Mill **'*'*' St. Newport. R. I. George Moriarity is teaching in St. Catherine's high school, Racine, Wis-
BYRON KANALEV SPEAKS 
(Continued from Page 41) 
Dame who will convey the message of the Holy Father, Pope Pius XI. 
"The cross for the worship of God, the flag for intelligent patriotism, and the Statue of Our Lady for true manliness—^these are the three sym­bols of the ideal upon which Notre Dame was founded and upon which it has grown,"—these are words re­cently uttered by the distinguished educator I am now to present to you. He has asked to be allowed not to speak as he has travelled a long way from the East to be \vith us tonight; he has been fulfilling many speaking engagements. His voice has been heard by j'ou all on the radio on our subject of tonight, but I want to give you the great pleasure of presenting the 12th president of Notre Dame University, who is known as well to the people of America as he is to us. I spoke a moment ago of the humility of Notre Dame. Well, I be­lieve he was not more humble as Pre­fect of Religion, which he was for many years, than he is today as Pres­ident, the Rev. John F. O'Hara. 
The concluding speaker on our program is well known to Chicago­ans of all creeds and beliefs, and particularly to our Catholic people. It is unnecessary to introduce him. I present him to his friends, admir­ers of his intellectual depth and clarity of thought, his eloquence and leadership,—the Rt. Rev. Monsignor Gerald A. Kealy, former Rector of St. Mary's Seminary at Mundelein, and now pastor of St. Gertrude's Church—^Monsignor Kealy. 

November, 1936 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Qiiitiiiiii,til),Hill ttiitii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiitiiitMiiiMtitiitiiitiiiitiiiiiMiiaiiiiiiiitit Miiiiiiiinii 
nSW^ When you build, rebuild, or repair, these are the builders of the Greater Notre Dame. Call on them. 
Q-IIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIII lllllltlltiiiiltlt>l"lllilill>tllIlilillli)illilltllllllliiiiiitlllllttlltilltlMIIII 
ItllllDlllllllllKlttllllllllll iiiliiiMtiiiiiliiiiiaiitiitiDiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiKi ' 
THOMAS L HICKEY. Inc. 
Builder 

121 N. Hill Si. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Tel. 4-9241 1 
B' 
llllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllIllltllllllini|llllll4)llltllUIIII*IIIUIIIIllltHIIMIIIM)UIHIUI«tlllHIIMMIlUI|tQ 
PI |»Iiiitiiiiiiiitiiii>iiiiiiii>iiiiiiiniiimiiMiiiiiiiitinmi*iiiiii»HMWiiiiiiimMmiiMiiimmtmmttii»fS^ •lllllllllltllllDIII 
EACH YEAR—A Larger and More Modern 
THE 1. W. LOWER CO. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME I I Established 1884 I 
WASHED SAND AND GRAVEL 
Used in the construction of new buildings on the Campus furnished by the Decorators | 
Painting Contractors | 
SOUTH BEND SAND AND 
• I

GRAVEL CORPORATION 
120 North Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana |3113 Lincoln Way West 
Qiiiiiiiiiiiiiii>i>'ii*ii*i*'ii*ii"i*i*i'ii*ii»ii"i*i'iii"'i'i" itiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiii Ill iiiiQ BiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiMiiitiiinMiiiiiiiitinimiimmiiiiiimiiiiimimH 
Qliiii iiiiiiiiiiiiatiiiiiMiiiiiiiKi ii)ii>iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiir«1 [S]iiiiiiiiii)itiiiiiiiiiiiiiitii)ttiiitiittiiiuiiiiniiii tiiiiiiiiM»imiiiniiiW*tiiiiMmtiiitwMi»mii iiffi 
Telephone 3-6197 

SOUTH BEND LUMBER CO. 
1535 South Main Street 
HARRY D. ULLERY 
Coal and Coke 
Lumber 

Builder's and Mason's Supplies 
Millwork Building Supplies 
V 

Automatic Coal Stokers 319 South St. Peter St. South Bend, Indiana PHONE 3-5156 
P|.iiiiiiiiittiiiiiiMiiiiiitiii»iiii>»iiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiimtttiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiitmiimiiinnnitinitinmi|S| [Sltiituiitiiiiii 








