The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTKE DAME 

iOiiil|i!l:-,f REVIEW 
'-.ty^^ '^-jj­
;fi£«.3ii. 
•^f^' •^''^\i'^^''~^ife 
-•v*« 
'%? 
vVflS 

rM^' 

Football is in the air. To anyone passing through South Bend, this becomes immediately clear. Freshly painted signs point to the stadium. Multi-colored markers lead drivers to various parking fields. And South Bend's hotels, res­taurants and traffic cops are poised. Alumni and fans, ready and waiting since last November, will soon pour into the city and onto the campus for the year's version of the "Fighting Irish." This issue of the ALUMNUS attempts to capture most of the action up to opening kickofj. For the preseason picture of the team, turn to page 48 for THE WORLD OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL IN '67. 

Couipeniliiun 
UNIVERSITY CALENDAR 
Sept. 11, SUMMA Workshop & National Kickoff for "Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge" Program. Sept. IS, Freshman Orienta­tion. Sept. 18-19, Registration for Fall Semester. Sept. 20, First Class Day of Fall Semester. Sept. 22-23, Advisory Coun­cil Meetings: Law and Library. Sept. 23, California Football Game. Sept. 30, Football at Purdue Oct. 6-7, Advisory Council Meeting: Science & Engi­neering. Oct. 7, Iowa Football Game Oct. 12-14, Fall Meeting: Board of Directors, Notre Dame Alumni Assoc. Oct. 13-14, Advisory Coun­cil Meeting: Arts & Letters. Oct. 14, So. Cal. Football Game. Oct. 15, Founder's Day Mass. Oct. 21, Football at Illinois Oct. 27, 9 CST, 10 EST, ABC Special: College Homecom­ing at Stepan Center. Oct. 27-28, Advisory Coun­cil Meeting: Business Ad­ministration. Oct. 27-28, Advisory Board Meeting: Lobund. Oct. 28, Michigan State Football Game. Nov. 3-4, University Board of Trustees' Meeting. Nov. 4, Navy Football Game Nov. 4, 4:30 CST, 5:30 EST, CBS, ND Team on General Electric College Bowl. Nov. 22, Thanksgiving Va­cation begins. Nov. 27, Classes resume from Thanksgiving vaca­tion. 


CENTER FOR CONTINUING ED UCATION 
(All conferences at the Center may be considered "open to Alumni" unless indicated otherwise.) Sept. 1-3, Univ. & World Change Conference spon­sored by the Newman International. Sept. 8, "Summa" National News Conference. Sept. 29-30, Natural Law 
Forum. Sept. 30-Ocf. 1, Indiana State Industrial Nurses Assoc. Conference. Oct. 3-4, State-wide Con­ference of Collegiate Deans in Accounting. Oct. 3-5, Research & Educa­tional Planning Conference sponsored by the National Home Study CounciL Oct. 11-12, US Rubber Co. Math Conference. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 

Oct. 14, Alumni Meeting: Notre Dame Lavryer. Oct. 20-21, Training Insti­tute for Counsellors spon­sored by the State Dept. of Public Instruction from Indiana. Oct. 30-Nov. 1, Higher Ed­ucation & Public Interna­tional Service Conference sponsored by the American Council on Education from Washington, D.C. Nov. 10-11, International Student Forum sponsored by the Student Govern­ment. Nov. 11, Midwest Confer­ence on British Studies sponsored by the History Department. Nov. 18-17, American Text­book Publishers Institute. Nov. 17-19, Symposium on Secularity sponsored by the Theology Department. Nov. 20-22, Population Con­ference for Women spon­sored by Dept. of Sociology. 

FACU LTY AND STAFF 
Dr. Adam S. Arnold Jr., prof. of finance, appointed to board of directors of the South Bend Public Trans­portation Corp. Joseph A. Gatto, assoc. prof, of modern languages, named to the South Bend Housing Authority munic­ipal agency. 
Miss Monica JeHers, former secy, to the vice-president for academic affairs, ap­pointed exec. secy, of The Notre Dame Library Assoc. Dr. George C. Euczynsld, prof, of metallurgical engi­neering at ND, on leave of absence during next school year as guest scientist at the Centre d'Etudes Nu­cleaires at Saclay, the principal French laboratory for studies in atomic energy. 
Basil R. Myers, head of the Department of Electrical Engineering, left in June to be a visiting prof, of engi­neering science and fellow of Oriel College at Oxford University, England. He will return to Notre Dame in Feb., 1968. 
Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, vice-president for research and sponsored programs, elected president of Asso­ciated Midwest Universi­ties, Inc. 

BOOKS 

Frederick J. Crosson, assoc. prof, in ND's General Pro­gram of Liberal Studies and Kenneth M. Sayre, assoc. prof, of philosophy. 
ed. "Philosophy and Cyber­netics," a series of papers analyzing the future impact of artificial intelligence on the human mind. University of Notre Dame Press, 208 pages, $6.95. 
Dr. Stephen Kerlesz. prof, of government and interna­tional studies and former Hungarian diplomat, "The Quest for Peace Through Diplomacy." Author treats new forms of diplomacy, the use of large multina­tional organizations such as the UN to keep "the globe from splitting as­under." Prentice-Hall Inc., 192 pages, $4.95. Joel Wells '52, "Grim Fairy Tales For Adults," parodies of the literary lions, The Macmillan Co., Collier-Macmillan Ltd., London, 122 pages, $3.95. 


GRANTS 
Aero-Space Engineering Department, Dr. John Ni­colaides. $43,856 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for improvement of the dy­namic stability of sounding rockets. 
Aero-Space Engineering Department, Dr. John D. Nicolaides, $24,600 from the US Army for low speed wind tunnel tests of model • Nike rockets. 
Biology Department, Dr. Bernard Wostmann, $56,500 from NSF for investigation of immune responses in germfree rats and mice research on water-soluble diets. 
Chemistry Department, Dr. George F. Hennion, $10,000 from Eli Lilly for research in medicinal organic chem­istry. 

Civil Engineering, Dr. Mark 
W. Tenney, $24,694 from the Department of the Interior for the study of the effects of Domestic Pollution Abatement on a Eutrophic Lake. 
Civil Engineering Depart­ment, Dr. Harry Saxe, $21,345 from PHS for en­vironmental health trainee-ship. 
Engineering Science De­partment Dr. William Strieder, $29,700 from NSF for the study of surface effects in transport across a porous medium-knudsen gas and electrolyte. Graduate School. Rev. Paul 
E. Beichner CSC, $6,000 from Inland Steel-Ryerson Fndtn. for graduate trainee-ship programs. History Department, $47,425 from the US Department of Health, Education and Wel­fare for faculty develop­ment, library resources and program evaluation. Law SchooL $214,815 from the US Oflice of Education under the Higher Education Facilities Act for expansion of the law library and ad­ditional office and class­room space. 

Mathematics Department. 
Dr. Matsushima, $37,900 from NSF for the study of lie groups and differential geometry. 
Mathematics Department. 
Drs. Wilhehu Stoll and Norbert Kuhlmann, $53,900 from NSF for the study of the theory of several com­plex variables. 
Mechanical Engineering Department Drs. AJan Mon­kewicz and Jerome L. No­votny, $10,933 from Bendix Missile Systems Div. for the study of monochromatic reflectance measurements in the near infrared. Memorial Library. $10,625 from the US Department of Health, Education and Wel­fare for the purchase of library materials. 
Metallurgical Engineering. 
Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, $73,246 from ARO-Durham for dislocation damping in single crystals of controlled substructure. 
Microbiology Department 
Dr. Morris Pollard, $37,100 from National Institutes of Health (NIH) for the study of a virus-free laboratory rodent for use in leukemia research. 
Microbiology Department 
Dr. Bernard Wostmarm, $78,816 from NIH for the rearing of gnoiobiotes on chemically defined liquid diet. 
Physics Department, Dr. V. Paul Kenney, $130,700 from NSF for study of elementary particle interactions. Radiation Laboratory. Dr. Milton Burton, $79,434 from AEC for the study of effects of radiation on matter. Sociology Department, Dr. Donald N. Barrett, $143,543 from the Agency for Inter­national Development for population studies in Latin America. 
Sociology Department, Dr. Frank Fahey, $37,500 from the US Department of Health, Education and Wel­fare to support his demon­strations project on assist­ing youthful prison parolees toward social economic ad­justment 
University. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, two grants, $105,457 and $3,766 from NSF for scientific activities at the University. 
REFLECTION ON GOLDEN YEARS TO THE EDITOR: A half century has 




Alnmni Ash In This Issne
passed since I came to Notre Dame in 
1916. I graduated in law at ND in 1922 

SEMINAB BRINGS PRAISE 
TO THE EDITOR: The grass is a quarter of an inch higher; there are a few more weeds in the garden and some un­answered questions of four small children; but, it was worth taking the time to read "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" God certainly must have an infinite sense of humor when He "sees" His "likeness and image" struggling to find out who He is and what He does. It is as Rev. Albert Schlitzer CSC says, "So we come to the paradox of Yahv^eh's reply to Moses: " 'I am what I am.' The Lord God tells Moses who He is by refusing to tell who He is." 
Roger Hosbein '50 Yannetka, 111. 
TO THE EDITOR: Notre Dame refined our intellectual appetites. Articles such as "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" go a considerable way toward allaying the hunger we feel so keenly once we are "out in the world." They are welcomed viscerally. Thanks. 
Tom Arkwright '66 Schiller Park, 111. 
r [ N 
Ever since Ralph McGill gave such special treatment to the ALUMNUS feature "Has Change Run Away With the Church?" in his nationally syndi­cated column, requests have begun pouring in from around the country for copies of the July-August issue. While they last, additional copies of the whole magazine will be free to anyone who re­quests them. However, there will be a charge for postage for large quantities. If the demand exceeds the magazine supply, there will be a special printing of the insert section and a small charge will be made for each copy. 
ALUMNUS EDITOR 
V / 
IT'S FOB THE STUDENTS 
TO THE EDITOR: Regarding the Athletic Department's dilemma concerning the size of the stadium, I feel very strongly that no action should be taken which would affect student seating. .. . I would much rather see us deemphasize if that would be the only alternative rather than any action which would affect student participation. We alumni have had our college experience and should have no voice in the affairs and direc­tion of the school including athletics unless a sincere belief that proper effort wasn't being made to obtain a superior faculty, which certainly isn't the case at Notre Dame. Decisions made by the president of the University and his staff have been so outstanding under the present administration that I am certain this problem will be solved to everyone's satisfaction. 
Donal Hmnmer LLB'48 Toledo, Ohio 
after army service. The years at ND were golden. The fathers of Holy Cross taught us by precept and example. The legal principles instilled by the low faculty have withstood the test of ex­perience. I will always be grateful. I have actively engaged in general low practice the last 44 years but I have had time to reflect and evaluate. ND has always been with me. The public has great admiration and respect for my Notre Dame. I may not be one of the greats, but yet in a sense I have been privileged, to attend ND "where I walked with tail men comradewise." 
Robert P. Galloway '22 Silver Creek, NY 

LIORE ON THE LOST IMAGE 
TO THE EDITOR: The article, "The Lost Image," by Ambrose F. Dudley, in the January issue seems to revert to the overly defensive and apologetic bent of an earlier American philosophy accord­ing to which the "reformer" keeps his positions fixed and inflexible and tries to make his conscience the guide of the radical or liberal. A review of history will reveal the philosophy of this na­tion's "founding fathers" was considered to be an "alien" vievr by Thomas Jeffer­son's more conservative contemporaries. The educated man must avoid the for­mation of a safe, pat, conventional and easy consensus in this exciting period of transition when the long-overdue de­bate has reached the arena of dialogue, where extremists and moderates are actively engaged in honest heart-to-heart combat. Only with persistent intellectual and spiritual forays into this dialogue shall we find that the American Dream 
— like the Notre Dame Dream — is not brittle. Rather, this human American Experiment is indeed continuously in the process of becoming the more ma­ture, more finely hewn, and more true expression of the ideals which first in­spired the "founding fathers" of this nation. What we need at this turning point in history is not more rhetoric about "right, duty and responsibility," or ful­some, glowing tributes to athletes and proponents of physical fitness, substan­tial citizens though they may be. On the contrary what we need is more creativity — the capacity for creating structures within our society that will allow the educated man to share more fully in the deliberations and respon­sibility of the nation's decision-makers, encouraging the forces of encounter in all segments of society, and assisting in the relevant formulation of a widened, well-informed national consensus to in­clude the highest standards of excel­lence and ethics. Notre Dame's 125-year history effecting the pursuit of excellence strikingly illustrates these ideals. Harsh unavailing debate can result in further separation of the contending groups. Oior proper course is to engage in a common search for the roots of differ­ences. Finding these, we shall at the same time isolate common elements in our philosophy and ways in which our attitudes are the same. 
Dr. Edward G. Toomey '55 Concord, Mass. 

FALL IS THE BEGINNING of 
a whole new year for scliool ori­ented people, for football fans and for kids waiting for Christ­mas. To discover what this "new year" has brought Notre Dame, read the opening story in the University section on page 6. 
IN RESPONSE to die requests of Alumni, the ALUJINUS is begin­ning a column which will give the student body a chance to relate Campus happenings and interpret them for Alumni. Mike McCau­ley is the first spokesman and his message appears on page 9. 
AN ANALYSIS of Alumni opin­ions on the change in the board of trustees highlights the recent Alumni Survey. Alumni also gave their suggestions for programs which need more emphasis. The results are in the story on page 14. 
FOR NOTRE DAME FANS fall 
means only one thing: it's time for football. Even though the can­vas is up around the fence of the practice field, this ALUMNU S re­veals a complete pre-season pre­view. The inside story, pictures and inter\'icws begin on page 48. 


INDEX 

Academe 12 Alumni Ask 2 Books 11 Classes _ 18 Clubs _ 42 Editorials 4 Law School 8 People 16 Sports 48 Students 9 South Bend 10 University 6 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published bimonthly by the University oF Notre Dome. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
1 ' 



Hom D. 
CAUfOkMIA 
However, the real testimony on be­


Fi^om the Editor 
half of class notes—and at the same 
Two YEARS AGO I edited my first time, a real tribute to Alma Mater— 
ALUMNUS magazine. Since that is the hard work by Class secretaries 
time, the magazine has undergone through all the years. Their service 
considerable change. HapefuUy, it has and loyalty to Notre Dame, too often 
all been for the better. The innova­taken for granted, will forever be a tions, though far from being perfected, source of amazement to me and, at have been intended to produce an 
the same time, a great source of in­spiration and encouragement. 
Alumni magazine that will be an effec­tive link between the University and Scattered throughout the country, her graduates. Perhaps, for a large these 60 scribes do a magnificent job majority of the Alumni, the magazine of maintaining Class rapport. Secre­is the most vital connection. taries like "Kid" Ashe '22, John Hur­
These two years—and 13 issues of ley '25, Lou Buckley '28, Larry Stau­the magazine—have seen at least one der '29, and Bumie Bauer '38 seldom segment of the ALUMNUS, however, 
miss a deadline. The same is true of Louie Bruggner '28, Joe Quinn '37, remain very much intact. That is the Frank Linehan '45, Jack Miles '47, class notes section. In many respects Milt Beaudine '54, Paul Fulhner '55, it is the most important section of the Art Ruble '58, Clarence Ruddy '27, magazine, and this is how it should John Hoyt '33, Joe Neufeld '44 and be. If we were to abolish (as it has many, many others. 
sometimes been suggested) the pages of sLx-point type which carry the class But their responsibility doesn't end news, we could hardly consider this an there. Oftentimes they are the same Alumni magazine. men who organize Reunions and plan 
The significance with which Notre other Class activities. Dame men regard these notes is ob­To these men and the countless vious. In every issue of the ALUSINUS, others who have preceded them, 
all but a scattered few Class columns heartiest thanks from all of us in the are chock full of news about their Alumni Office for a job well done. graduates. The Class section has be­And an aside to members of the 
come so voluminous that within the Classes , . . you can show your appre­last year a 1000-word per column 
ciation in a very practical way. Tear out the "yellow card" on page 30, jot limit had to be imposed. But now, it down a couple of notes and send it to is a little uncertain whether or not this your Class secretary today. To him, it's restriction will be able to contain the as good as a million "thanks." 
flood of information. 
It was hoped that increasing the fre­quency of the magazine from quarter­ly to bi-monthly would alleviate this condition. Instead, it served only to 
''JU^Jcr^
prime the pump more often and more vigorously. 



As We \¥ent to Press 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon was named as­sociate dean of the College of Science and Dr. Ralph E Thorson was named acting chairman of the department of biology replacing Dr. Gordon. 
The Office of Economic Oppor­tunity knocked—and took away ND's assistant dean of the Law School, Thomas F. Broden Jr. L'49. Broden joined the OEO as chief of the train­ing and technical assistance division in the Community Action program. 
Bro. Thomas Baiaz CSC became top man at the Notre Dame post office. He was sworn in as acting postmaster to succeed Bro. Eli Pelchat CSC who was assigned to Pius XII School for Boys in Chester, NY. Brother Thomas entered the Holy Cross Brothers in 1960 and has been on the post oflBce staff six years. 
Dr. Kang Sung Jong, the ND research chemist who mysteriously disappeared in June, returned to Campus to finish up his work before moving on to a new position at New York University Oct. 1. He explained his sudden de­parture to testify in his Korean home­land about Communist spy ring was merely "a citizen's duty" and •was really "very natural." 
James S. "Steve" Donlon '68 and Robert DufFy '68 were killed in an auto crash Aug. 25 in Bryan, Ohio. Donlon, an AU-American fencer led the ND fencing team to an 18-0 record and third place in the NCCAA championships last season. 

ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 



Editorials 
Tram»itiom 
The last issue of the ALUMNUS was filled, and rightly so, with what the cover called "Jim Armstrong—The Passing of an Era." 
Father Hesburgh in his editorial beautifully expressed our sentiments when he said that he did not know how to give adequate gratitude to one who has served the University so well for over 41 years of its 125-year his­tory. This, of course, is nearly one-third of our total University existence. In this period the Alumni body has grown from a few hundred to more than 40,000. During this time. Father Hesburgh noted, "Jim never seemed to lose his solid footing, his sense of humor and his rapport, both with the Alimmi and with all that was happening at the University." 
There is no doubt that the record speaks for itself in what has happened in the spirit of our Alumni Associa­tion during the long years of Jim's service as alumni secretary. We are, I'm sure, all eternally grateful. 
As Jim himself has said though, in his I'envoi, the change will relieve him of the resf>onsibilities of a con­stantly revising program which now needs the contribu­tions of a younger approach. 
The roots of the tree on which we Alumni vrill now lean have been deeply set. In our new secretary, Jim Cooney, we have a man whose experience with the Uni­versity has been continuous for many years. His roles have been varied: club liaison, fund raising and in the Aluirmi Office. If you have not had the good fortune of meeting him, I hope you will have the opportunity soon. He is vibrant, stimulating and full of enthusi­asm. There is no question that with our continued cooperation and support we will have found another "Jim." (What should make it easy for us is that we don't even have to change the name!) 
Good luck and best wishes from all of us Alumni, Jim Cooney. We also congratulate the University on an excellent appointment. Jim Armstrong always had a vision of how great Notre Dame might yet become. We are sure you share that vision. 
A. F. "Bud" Dudley '43 Alumni Association President 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 



"Armatrongisms" Linger On 
We called him "JEA." The short-form appellation wasn't intended with the same implication \vith which corporate tycoons are similarly labelled. On the con­trary, his humility and deep compassion made him more a father confessor, more a gende counselor than an ad­ministrative magnate. He commanded respect without awe, admiration sans trepidation. His trump card was a constant, gentle wit, which he brandished with a fencer's skill. It punctuated 42 years of what is now Notre Dame history with warmth and the personal touch. It shortened dark Indiana winters, rivalled the color of a Notre Dame fall and kept the family smiling through somber, uncertain years. 
His bon mots were a combination of Shakespearean pun and Breakfast Club buffoonery. From the first day it became my pleaisure to know him, £uid to work with him, I vowed to undertake a compendium of these "Arm­strongisms." The resolution has thus far gone unful­filled, probably because of the sheer volume of them and the fact that they were offspring of the transient moment. This inaugural column as his successor affords an opportunity to recall a few, by no means his best, but at least representative of what we who worked closely with him had to put up with hourly, if not more often. 

ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1947 OaOBER 
Mary Cahill, the harried wife of our beloved, be­leaguered Ticket Manager, served as Armstrong's secre­tary several years back. Mary was a lithesome, lanksome lass whom Armstrong dubbed his "private wire." Staff conferences afforded Jim a natural vehicle for a jocular broadside or two. After making a lengthy presentation on the state of the Association, he once remarked: "If I've left out some loose ends here, it really doesn't con­cern me. After all, they're the ones that catch the passes." And again, commenting on the importance of in depth organization for a development campaign: "We mustn't leave anything to chance. The only people I know who ever did that effectively were Tinker and Evers." 

At mealtimes, he invariably discarded parsley sprigs from whatever lay before him, claiming they left him "parsley disabled." Last year I forwarded Jim a copy of a letter written by Francis J. "Skip" Nunnery '67. As student president of the Met Club, Skip had fashioned an excellent note to incoming freshmen, encouraging them to join the organizaticHi. I thought the communi­cation was a fine example of student effort Armstrong concurred with "Hie thee to this Nunnery!" 
A newspaper reporter preparing a story several months ago about Jim's imjiending retirement, asked what plans he had for the golden years. Jim replied that he intended to catch up on his reading, writing and arithmetic. "I want to read and write the things I wasn't able to get around to because of the job. And, the retirement income will sharpen up my arithmetic." 
Notre Dame, during Jim Armstrong's tenure as Alumni Secretary, steadily climbed to an eminent posi­tion of prestige and stature in the academic world. The Association, under his direction, paralleled that growth and maturity. In the process, we have of necessity moved from family to corporate style. Sheer numbers and scope have seen to that. But, as the Alumni body grows by a 1400-unit leap annually, as the University dedicates itself to ever-broadening commitments, as its Alumni, students and faculty play increasingly significant roles in the life of Notre Dame, with the divergent views, attitudes and controversy which are the hallmarks of a great university, there will be room, indeed a necessity for warmth, mutual understanding and a good old-fashioned sense of humor. While we'll no longer be daily beneficiaries of the Armstrong lyric, we hope to keep the melody lingering on. 
James D. Cooney '59 Alumm Secretary 
September 1967 October Vol. 45 No. 5 
MOVING IN DAY Getting ready for a bang-up 125th anniversary year. 




COME SEPTEMBER THINGS HAPPEN 
UNIVERSITY administrators, fac­
" ulty and staff have been bustling 
around all summer to get the place in 
order for some pretty important 
guests. 
First there'll be the largest total en­rollment ever. Then everybody and his father and uncle will be coming around for the football games. 
Then on three occasions the entire nation will be invited to have a look at ND. The first big coast to coast get-together will be a TV special on college homecoming, Notre Dame style, of course; then the Michigan State game; and, lastly, the academic competition on the General Electric College Bowl. 
And there's much more that has in­volved extensive preparation for the last several months: changes in both academic and nonacademic programs, plans for important meetings on Campus, building construction, hiring faculty members, planning the Uni­versity's 125th anniversary party and laying the groundwork for SUMMA, Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge. First Things First. The largest group of freshmen in the University's his­tory—1630—^is expected on Campus \vith their parents Sept. 15 for three days of orientation. When everyone starts classes Sept. 20, total enrollment is expected to be up slighdy to a record 7500, including some 6100 undergraduate students. 
While the freshmen have a great deal to look forward to, they, them­selves, are going to be eagerly watched. For in many respects, this group of greenies should be the most outstanding ever. Statistics on the Class of 1971 reflect the rising admis­sion standards: the well-rounded student is the one being sought by Notre Dame. 

There are 109 men entering who ranked first in their high school classes. In last year's freshman class there were only 70 with this distinc­tion. Fifty-one of the frosh were second in their classes (57 in 1966) and 56 of them were third (35 in 1966). In die Class of 1971 there are 648 students who were members of the National Honor Society while last year there were only 397. 
And every coach except the soccer mentor is getting more material in the Class of 1971 than he did in the Class of 1970. The number of letters won by entering freshmen (with the number won by last year's freshman group in parenthesis) is as follows: 
Football 281 (258), basketball 212 (164), baseball 159 (107), track and cross country 317 (172), golf 112 (44), wrestling 53 (39), tennis 71 (33), swimming 42 (26), bowling 31 (no record of last year) and crew­lacrosse-ice hockey 15 (10). 
Old '7rs luck ran out in the soccer department, though. It must be admitted that this year there are only 22 men coming who earned high school letters in this sport while last year there were 23. Faculty. Unfortunately, there are no similar statistics on the incoming faculty members. But here's how they stack up in the figure department: about 123 new people wll join the teaching, research or administrative staffs; there will be 28 returning from leaves, etc.; 30 others will begin leaves; and 78 former faculty mem­bers won't be returning. 
There will be several new faces in top administrative posts: Dr. Fred­erick Rossini, the University's first vice-president for research and spon­sored programs; Dr. Bernard Wald-man, who replaced Rossini as dean of the College of Science; Dr. Joseph Hogan, new dean of the College of Engineering; Rev. James Riehle CSC, new dean of students; and Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, new University chaplain. 
Rev. Ralph Dunn CSC will head the new Psychological Services Center which will provide diagnostic and treatment services for students vrith emotional problems. New Government. The 1967-68 aca­demic year will see changes in both University and student governments. It will be the first year Notre Dame will be under its reorganized Board of Trustees, changed from clerical to predominandy lay governance of the institution. 
Student government at the Univer­sity has also undergone structural change, with legislative and student 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

life aspects invested in the Student 
Government body and the service 
functions in a new body known as 
the Student Union. 
Buildings. Campus construction, a 
trademark of the era of Rev. Theo­
dore M. Hesburgh CSC, president 
since 1952, continues apace. Con­
struction now underway or about to 
begin totals more than $16 million, 
including the mammoth $8 million 
Athletic-Convocation Center; a $1.1 
million building to house the Uni­
versity's famed Lobund Laboratory 
for germfree animal research; a 
nearly completed $2.5 million "atom 
smasher" as an addition to Nieuw­
land Science Hall; and the $3.5 mil­
lion project to increase the capacity 
of the University's jMjwer plant. 
Construction of a $981,000 Hayes-Healy Hall to house graduate study in business and public administration is expected to start this fall. 
But an old building—now under­going extensive remodeling — might turn out to be just as exciting as any of the new more glamorous structures. Notre Dame has leased the old minor seminary building. Holy Cross Hall, from the Congregation of Holy Cross for ten years. 
Triple Purpose. Holy Cross Hall and the adjacent Butler building will be used as a residence hall for up to about 160 men as the site for some co-exchange classes with St. Mary's College and as a social center for students from both schools. 
Rev. Joseph Hoffman CSC will be rector of the residence hall and he will be assisted by Rev. Thomas Engleton CSC. Rev. James Burtchaell CSC, assisted by a graduate student, will 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
be in charge of the social center and 
a South Bend restaurateur has been 
hired to oversee the kitchen. 
"At first food service will be limited 

to pizza parties and possibly breakfast 
but later we hope to be able to ac­
comodate private parties and a larger 
menu," Father Hoffman pointed out. 
"At least in the beginning students 
will take their meals in tihe college 
dining halls. 
"We expect to have live music 

groups often and we want to start 
retreats and a stimulating religious 
program," Father Hoffman added. 
Some of the projects that are being 

considered for the new hall are an 
experimental theater, a coffee house 
and offices for student groups such as 
CILA and the Neighborhood Study 
Help program. 
"The key point in all of this is the 

emphasis on co-education," according 
to Father Hoffman. Holy Cross HaU 
is on the west side of die Campus, 
roughly half-way to the girls across 
the road. Obviously excited about the 
many prospects possible. Father 
Hoffman said, "It will be up to the 
students who live there. They will 
set the tone for anything which might 
come in later years." 
More Rules. Like most every year, 
there are some new rules for ND 
students. One they will be delighted 
with concerns off-campus housing. 
This year students who are 21 in 
September or wU be 21 by Dec. 31 
will be permitted to five in off-campus 
apartments. Previously, off-campus 
housing for undergraduates was 
limited to sleeping rooms only. 
Notre Dame, also for the fiirst time, treats the problem of drug use among students. The new student manual points out that anyone using, pos­sessing or having in his control hallu­cinatory drugs is subject to disciplinary action by the dean of students. 
Other penalties—long-standing but spelled out for the first time in the new student handbook—are that stu­dents driving onto Campus without permission will be fined $25. For failing to register a motor vehicle a student will draw a $5 fine or a $7 one if the police have to check out the license number to ascertain the owner. 
The handbook also says no motor­cycles or motor-driven cycles are to be on the Campus wthout permis­sion; and these vehicles must be registered and decaled the same as autos. 
Also for the first time, the hand­book lists the entire state law con­cerning purchase and drinking of alcoholic beverages. Any student imder 21 who has alcohol in his pos­sesdoa is liable for a fine not to exceed $500; and anyone between the ages of 18-21 who misrepresents his age to purchase liquor b liable for a fine up to $50 and 30 days in jaiL 
Special Events. Again this year the 
Center for Continuing Education will 
host outstanding national meetings as 
well as sessicHos for Almnni, students 
and faculty. Two of the big events 
ccHning up SO(HI in the Center are a 
conference on Clerical Celibacy spon­
sored by the National Association for 
Pastoral Renewal Sept 6-8, and a 
seminar on higher education and 
public international service spxmsored 
by the American Coimcil on Educa­
tion Oct. 31-Nov. 1. 
Another imf>ortant project of the 

CCE staff will be putting last Jime's 
hi^ y acclaimed Alumni Seminar cm 
the road. Soon Alimmi and guests in 
Detroit, Boston, IndianapoUs, New 
York, St Louis and Hartford, Conn, 
will get a chance to discuss "Has 
Change Rim Away with the Church?" 
with the men who led the challenging 
Reunicm seminar. 
The Bis Eye. And friends of Notre 
Dame in faraway comers will have 
the Campus as close as their television 
sets three times this fall. Their first 
chance will be Oct 27 (10-11 p.m. 
EST) when Bob Barmer Associates, 
New York producers, will present a 
one-hoiu- variety show in color on 
ABC. The show is tentatively called 
"John Davidson/Homecoming at 
Notre Dame." 
Comic George Carlin, pop singers 
Spanky and Our Gang and the ND 
Glee Club will appear along with 
singer Davidson. A crew of about 
75 win tape the show with live 
audiences in Stepan Center, Oct 18 
and 19. 
Then Oct 28, the afternoon after the homecoming show is broadcast, ABC is carrying the "Game of the Week," ND vs. Michigan State. The grid show will be televised live from die ND stadium. 
Then Saturday, Nov. 4 (5:30-6 
p.m. EST), NBC will carry die battie of the brains, the ND team on the GE College Bowl. The four ND scholars will match wits with opjxtnents from either Wisconsiii, Southern Methodist, Nebraska, the University of California at Riverside or Bryn Mawr, depending on which team is victorious in sessions prior to the ND challenge. 
It all makes for a pretty exciting 125th anniversary year coming up. And special events are being planned to celebrate the anniversary, too. The ofiBdal observance of the founding will be Dec. 8-9 and will feature a symposium, a reUgious observance, a convocation and a luncheon or dinner. 

ASPIRING LAWYERS 
Room for growth. 


CAMPUS 
Federal Grant for Law Addition 
Through die Higher Education Facil­ities Act the federal government has granted $214,815 for the expansion of the ND Law School building. Pri­marily plans call for expansion of the law library but they also provide for additional office and classroom space. 
The entire cost of the work is esti­mated at §644,446, according to Rev. Jerome J. Wilson CSC, vice-president for business affairs, and tlie Univer­sity has about $150,000 in odier funds earmarked for die project. 
Construcdon will get under way as soon as the additional money can be raised, according to Father Wilson. 
The Law Building is at die main entrance to die Campus. The addi­tion will fill in the "L" of the existing structure to make a rectangular build­ing. The addition will be the same height, five stories. 
Law Dean Joseph O'Meara said the work will make possible the hous­ing of an expanding law library col­lection, which now includes about 65,­000 volumes, and will also relieve some crowding. 
Even with the new facilities the University does not contemplate any increase in enrollment for the law school which is set at a 325-student maximum. 


The First for Indiana Jurists 
Continuing its history of firsts, the Notre Dame Campus will be the scene for the first Indiana Judicial Con­ference, Oct. 19-21 at the Center for Continuing Education. Improving trial procedures on all levels will be the major emphasb of the conference which was made mandatory during the 1967 Indiana General Assembly. 
Included in the activities of the con­ference which will be attended by all Indiana trial court judges, is a semi­nar on recent developments in juvenile law and juvenile court rights. A dis­cussion of the limitation of jury in­structions is also on the agenda. 

Chairman of the conference's ex­ecutive committee. State Supreme Court Chief Justice Donald H. Hunter feels the seminar is an important step toward "increasing the efficiency of the judiciary at all levels, from trial to appellate and supreme courts." 
Problems that often resulted in "roadblocks to the speedy administra­tion of justice" will now be able to be discussed freely and fully by the Indiana judges. Hunter said. 

Togetiierness for Families 
Some 5000 moms, dads and kids who belong to the Christian Family Move­ment met again on the Notre Dame campus for their 15th national con­vention Aug. 22-27. It was tiie 13th time the group had chosen ND as their convention site. 
A new format stressed an ecumen­ical emphasis, some contemporary examples of Uturgical music and an active role for teen-agers. 
Among the outstanding speakers on the program were Gregory Baum OSA, well-known theologian and commentator on the Church in the modem world; Harvey Cox Jr., author of The Secular City and associate professor of church and society at Harvard; Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon; Mrs. Sidney Callahan, author of The Illusion of Eve: Modern Woman's Quest for Identity; and Gordon Zahn, professor of sociology at Loyola University of Chicas;o. 
In his speech to a chaplains' session Zahn advocated the removal of na­tional flags from Catholic churches and the abolishment of military train­ing at Catholic schools as practical steps in support of peace. 
The avowed religious pacifist pointed out "until we awaken to the realization that it is not the proper role of a churchman (or a church) to make war, to bless war or even to praise war and the deeds of ^var, we will never be able to bring the re­quired measure of dedication to our vocation of peace." 
Others who cairied out the two themes, "Building Commimity" and "Reaching Out into the Political Sphere," were Rev. John Thomas SJ, a sociologist; US Rep. John Brademas of Indiana;. Bishop Walter W. Curtis of Bridgeport, Conn., moderator of the Family Life Bureau of the National CathoUc Conference; and Rev. John McKenzie SJ, professor of theology at ND. 
One of the keynote speakers was Dr. Philip Lee, assistant secretary of health and scientific affairs for the US Health, Education and Welfare Department. Dr. Lee's talk stressed the government's concern for family life as an antidote for race riots and other national problems. 
Teen-age members of CFM fam­ilies attending the convention were relieved of their customary baby­sitting role by a Grand Rapids, Mich. parish youth group so they were able to have their own sessions. For them a highlight was presentation of the popular "Mass for Young Americans" \vritten by composer Ray Repp who was also at the convention. 
Another liturgical music expert at the meetings was Rev. Clarence Rivers, who received the Catholic Art Association medal for his liturgical compositions. Father Rivers intro­duced two of his new Masses to the conventioners. 
CFM is a married couples' group concerned with applying Christian principles to family and social life. The group was organized and is still directed by Patrick F. Crowley '33 and his wife Patty, recipients of ND's 1966 Laetare Medal. 
BAUM COX ZAHN HATFIEID CALLAHAN 


From the secular city to the Christian family. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 oaOBER 


STUDENTS 

For The Needy Scholars Only 
In keeping -with the pace of the twentieth century, well - established philosophies have undergone "about­face" changes during the past decade. And financial aid offices of colleges and universities have followed the pattern. 
It used to be that scholarships were awarded to students strictly on their academic record. But lately Notre Dame, as well as the majority of other colleges and universities of the West-em and Midwestern areas, has taken a new position. The more than 2000 students who received financial aid either in the form of a scholarship, grant or loan last year at ND were awarded their money primarily on the basis of need. 
Brother Kieran Ryan CSC, the re­cently appointed director of financial aid and executive secretary of the University scholarship committee, de­scribes this change in ideas as "trying to get as many kids into college as pos­sible." He sees the job of the Student Aid Office as "reaching out and down to all economic levels to spread the opportunity for higher education." 
AH national scholarship programs have adopted this same philosophy of providing assistance to students who, without such aids, would be unable to attend their colleges. In applying for scholarships, grants, loans or part-time employment, a student must in­clude an analysis of his parents' finan­cial status. This information is given in a confidential statement which is submitted to the national office of Col­lege Scholarship Service. 
Statistics on scholarships and other kinds of student aid reveal that in 1955-56, $144 million was given to approximately 660,000 students across the country. The figures for 1967-68 have risen to the $1.7 billion mark, aiding more than 4 million students. 
In 1966-67 more than 2000 students at ND received financial assistance from either institutional, state or na­tional grants, loans and scholarships. By 1968 nearly 50 percent of the un­dergraduates wU be receiving help from these sources. 
The Student Aid Office is attempt­ing to cope with rising needs by adding more scholarships. One of the newer ones is the Jim Armstrong scholarship given in behalf of "Mr. Alumnus" and another established with a portion of the money from the estate of Florence Daily of Rochester, NY. The average assistance for each student has increased from $240 to j $400. The total amount given yearly 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
•STUDENT VIEW' 



THE GREAT COMMON DENOMINATOR 
by Hit* McCauki 
A 
RECENTLY PUBLISHED report fot the American Alumni Council — "How Colleges Have Changed!" closed with these words: What we all must become rec­onciled to is that we live in a new era of radical change, a new time when almost nothing stands still for very long, and when con­tinual change is the normal pat­tern of development. It is a terrible fact to face openly, for it requires that whole chunks of our traditional way of thinking and behaving be revised . . . If we recognize that our colleges from now on will be perpetually changing, we shall be able to control the direction of change more intelligently. We can press for enduring values amidst the flux only if we ask: "How and what kind of change?" and not, "Why change?" 
These words pose a great chal­
lenge to both alumni and students 
throughout this country. For in 
recent years, a gap of misunder­
standing has developed between 
members of the Alumni and con­
temporary students — between the 
students of yesteryear who yearn 
to return their Alma Mater to "the 
good old days" and the young 
scholar who believes that constant 
movement and change are the only 
signs of progress. 
Our University is no exception to this general trend. The Notre Dame community also suffers from this "understanding gap" between students and Alumni. But this does not mean that we believe this gap cannot be bridged. Efforts on both sides have been and are being made to establish a more meaning­ful dialogue between the Alumni and the present student body. 
Student Govenmient '67-'68 has established a special Alumni Re­lations Commission under the Pub­lic Relations Department for next year. Many programs have been initiated already and more are on the drawing board at the moment: 
•
 A letter has already been sent to the presidents of the area Alum­ni Clubs of Notre Dame informing them of the new effort being made by the Student Government and asking for their comments. 

•
 Beginning with this initial col­umn, a regular student government column will appear in the ALUM­



NUS, informing the readers of the programs, activities and opinions of the student body. 
•
 Tentative plans are being for­mulated to organize groups of stu­dents to speak at Alumni Club meetings, with the objective being to inform Alumni of the Campus situation from a student's view. 

•
 Another idea under considera­tion is having a student observer sit in on the Alimmi Senate meet­ings. This delegate would be ex­pected to contribute student per­spectives to problems and discus­sicms concerning the student body. 

•
 Work is be^nning now to make sure that the student body extends a real Notre Dame "welcome" when our Alumni visit the campus on football weekends. 


This is just a beginning of what 

we hope will be useful and impor­
tant to both students and Alumni 
alike. Without wishing to make 
the so-called "understanding gap" 
appear any larger than it actually 
is, but realizing that such a dia­
logue of communication and inter­
est is truly needed, we students 
are convinced that the road ahead 
will be a "two-way street." 
We hope that by understanding 
the implications of changes on the 
modem student — on the moral, 
intellectual, social and refigious 
levels — diat you will better un­
derstand our actions and words. 
Just as important, we hope we will 
leam much from a closer associa­
tion and communication with the 
Alumni. We hope — we expect — 
to benefit from your experience. 
Throughout all our efforts, there will remain one great common denominator: Notre Dame itself. As members of the Notre Dame community, we all share the pride and unity that imfailingly accom­pany the distinction of being a student of Notre Dame — whether 40 years ago or right now. The graduate of this University builds his life upwn the values and ideals he learned at Notre Dame. The Alumni can help the present stu­dent body a great deal as we apply those values and ideals of Notre Dame to a changing world. 
MIKE MCCAULEY, a junior in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, is from Des Moines, la. and u public relations co­ordinator for Student Govenunent Notre Dame. 
in scholarships by ND is now 
$456,000. 
The National Defense Student Loan 
program is the biggest source of cash 
assistance for students. This year 87 
new institutions became members of 
the NDSL program and the requests 
for aid exceeded by $40 million the 
amount of funds available. 
• Tliis year 555 Notre Dame students are expected to borrow $251,924 in lyDSL funds. The Department of Health, Education and Welfare pro­vides 90 percent of these funds and ND supplies the remainder. Loan ap­plications are made through the Uni­versity. 
. Although over the past 10-15 years the philosophy concerning the award­ing of scholarships has changed, a stu­dent's academic record is still of sig­nificant importance. The students who receive aid, which is now based pri­marily on need, must also be eligible scholastically. 
Each year the Committee on Schol­arships designates about 150 entering students as Notre Dame Scholars in recognition of their outstanding intel­lectual and personal characteristics. 
Although financial need is not the basis for this particular designation, it is the basis for determining the amount of the stipend. A Notre Dame Scholar who does not need financial aid, or who does not file the Parents' Confidential Statement, is awarded a minimum stipend of $100. 


SOUTH BEND Beginning to Boom 
South Bend, now fully recovered from the effects of the Studebaker closing a few years ago, is on the move again. Dramatic plans call for renovations in the downtown area which will one day make the returning Alumnus 


THE AMERICAN Banking on a 

blink his eyes in wonderment. 
Already in the works is the demoli­tion of the old Pick-Oliver Hotel, the site of many an after-game soiree, to make way for a 25-story American Bank Building. The $53 million structure will be the tallest in a 75­mile radius of South Bend. 
It will include 190 hotel rooms on nine floors to be known as the Albert Pick Motor Inn. The American Bank 
•ivilloccupy half of the street level and the lower level plus the entire sixth floor which will be used for executive offices, according to bank VP and Secretary Joe Hannan '39. 
The top eight floors will be general office space and a top-of-the-building private club. The rest will be for in­side parking to accommodate 290 cars. 
HISTORIC PICK-OLIVER Victim of Progress. 

AND ST. JOE new skyline. 
The new building is scheduled for completion in early 1969. 
Meanwhile the St Joseph Bank is planning a 15-story bank-office build­ing on a downtown plot bordered by Michigan, Jefferson and St. Joseph streets, at the site of its present auto drive-in. 
When the new structure is com­pleted, the St. Joe Bank will move its offices there and their old build­ing on the Michigan Street side of the lot will be razed for the con­struction of a plaza. The plaza, aimed at beautifying the downtown area, will be picturesque, spacious and ojjen, and highlighted with handsome variations of fountains, trees and shrubs. 
The new St. Joe Bank building will be completely illuminated at night to enhance its beauty and make it a landmark for miles around, accord­ing to President Dick Rosenthal '54. 
And the banks aren't the only booming businesses. Many downtown stores are coming up with modernistic new fronts and construction is under way on a spectacular new city-county building. 
The Downtown South Bend Coun­cil Inc. has carefully laid plans for the future. The plan for a com­pletely revitalized downtown core in­cludes a civic center on the St. Joseph riverfront, the main building of which will house the city school administra­tion offices. Other buildings in the Center will provide a central location for museums, galleries and entertain­ment-recreation arts. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 



BOOKS 

For runtime Reading 
GRIM FAIRY TALES FOR ADULTS, Parodies of the Literary Lions, by Joel Wells, The Macmillon Co., 122 pages, $3.95. 
Can you imagine "Goldilocks and the Three Bears" by Tennessee Wil­liams or J. D. Salinger's version of "Hansel and Gretel" or "Little Red Riding Hood" ala Edward Albee? 'Twould make for pretty grim fairy tales, huh? 

That's exactly what Joel Wells '52 has in his first book. His tales—for adults only, please — include a visit to Peter Pan which is remarkably rem­iniscent of a reporter's first visit to Papa Hemingway. 
Then there's a character named Goatfinger in **n Fl*m*ng's "Three Billygoats Gruff." And Wells tells "The Night Thoughts of Cinerella" as J*m*s J*yc* might have thought them. 
The art work of Marilyn Fitschen is a pleasant bonus and the cover is as gay as the inside of the book. In violet, magenta and orange we see "Critical Shouts from Olympus" on the jacket The M*rq**s d* S*d* and all the gang at Charenton positively rave about it. "We're all quite mad for it here," tlie blurb quotes. And H*rm*n M*lv*ll* calls it "a whale of a book" 
The inside fun starts with an intro­duction from N*rm*n M**l*r and what follows makes for delightful bed­time, or anytime, reading. It makes one hope J**l W*lls, teacher and editor of Critic magazine, will live — and write much — happily ever after. 
About Economic Diplomacy 
THE QUEST FOR PEACE THROUGH DIPLOMACY, by Stephen D. Kerlesz, Prentice-Hall 192 pages, $4.95 clolhbound and $2.45 Spectrum paper-bound. To be published Sept. 18. 
The US must meet today's inter­national crises wt h a new diplomacy, says Dr. Stephen D. Kertesz, professor of government and international stu­dies at ND and former Hungarian diplomat. 
He explains in his new book that power politics is no longer a strong lever in a world which realizes the horrors of atomic war. Instead, "eco­nomic diplomacy," promising techni­cal and social aid, is the best way to influence the world's millions who long for more food, money and gen­eral comforts. 
Kertesz traces the rapidly changing role of diplomacy and observes that today's underdeveloped nations as usually align themselves with either 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER W67 OaOBER 
East or West This has created an ideologically divided but interdepend­ent world, he says, and in this climate of mutual reliance, nations can no longer act independently or even bi­laterally. The best negotiation is through such organizations as the UN, NATO and the OAS, Kertesz be­lieves. 
In these "world theaters," he ar­

gues, the West can effectively win 
world respect and triumph over 
Soviet diplomacy "in competition for 
the uncommitted millions." 
Success of the new "economic di­

plomacy," says Kertesz, depends upon 
resolving internal quarrels in the 
democratic camp and introducing 
more efficient diplomatic techniques. 
Foreign aid could then be channeled 
through world organizations to small 
nations seeking help in governing 
themselves. 

On Collegiate Raniungs 
THE GOURMAN REPORT, Confidential Ratings of American Colleges, by Jock Gourman, The Con­tinuing Education Institute Inc., 1189 pages, $17.50. 
One of the most frequent questions asked about Notre Dame is, "How does it rank with other colleges and universities?" Most professional rat­ings, and they have been few and far between, have indicated little except a broad acceptance of the competence of the institution or its colleges and departments. Jack Gourman '49 and '52 has created an analysis of quality which measures many significant fac­tors. He has listed in his 1967-68 vol­ume, some 60,000 ratings of the various strengths or lack of them in 1187 American undergraduate col­leges. 
The conventional ratings of A— superior, B—good, C—fair and D— poor are used. The report is confiden­tial, but highlights have been made available. 
It is a source of satisfaction and an achievement of some significance that the University of Notre Dame ranks eighth in the total ratings, among the 1 percent of the institutions which scored 700 or more out of a possible 
800. Notre Dame was exceeded by Princeton, Harvard, Yale, Michigan, Columbia, Chicago and Cornell in that order, and followed by Stanford, Dartmouth and Pennsylvania in the 700-plus category. 
Only three boards of trustees re­ceived the A-rating, Princeton, Har­vard and Notre Dame. This is indeed a tribute to the University trustees as they assume an even greater role in the future of Notre Dame. 
And in this period of transition for the Alumni Association, it is at once 
a happy valedictory and salute that 
the Notre Dame ^unmi Association 
also recdves the A-rating. 
Jack Gouiman also publishes an up­dating service, the Gourman Letter. He is political science professcx' at San Fernando Valley State Collie, North-ridge, Calif. Fellow Alumni will re­member him as a track and baseball candidate while a student here. Jack was signed by the Boston Braves after graduation and sent to the Marysville, Calif., farm club. His digression to the field of education has resulted in this very interesting, unique and wide­ly discussed contributicoi. 
—James E. Armstrong '25 



On Artificial litelligence 
PHILOSOPHY AND CYBERNHICS, edited by Frederick J. Crosson and Kenneth M. Soyrie, 208 pages, S6.9S. 
A series of papers analyzing the future impact of artificial intelligence on the human mind has been published in book form as Philosophy and Cyber­netics by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Edited by Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, an associate professor in ND's General Program of Liberal Arts, and Dr. Kenneth M. Sayre, associate profes­sor of philosophy at ND, the book contains seven chapters discussing cur­rent content and future implications of cybernetics. 
In a preface the authors point out that "there are many workers in the field of artificial intelligence who seri­ously believe that there are few, if any, intellectual tasks which will not some day be fully within the CMnpe­tency of a skillfully programmed digital computer .. . and there is now fairly general agreement that the pos­sibility of artificially intelligent mech­anisms ^vill force some basic changes in our conception of intelligent be­havior in the human being." 
The papers presented in the book were delivered to the Philosophic In­stitute for Artificial Intelligence, estab­lished in 1965 by Notre Dame to study the interaction between computer technol<^ and various philosophic conceptions of the nature of man. 
Contributors, all of whcnn are Notre Dame faculty members, in­clude: the Rev. David B. Burrell CSC — "Obeying Rules and Follow­ing Instructions"; Dr. Crosson — "In­formation Theory and Phennnenol­ogy" and "Memory, Models and Meaning"; Dr. James L. Massey — "Information, Machines and Men"; Dr. Sayre — "Choice, Decision and Origin of Information," "Towards a Quantitative Model of Pattern Forma­tion," and 'Instrumentation and Me­chanical Agency." 
New Campion Collection 
THE WORKS OF THOMAS CAMPION: Com­plete Songs« Masques and Treatises with a Selection of the Latin Verse, edited by Walter 
R. Davis, 521 pages, Doubleday. $6.95. 

ACADEME 
Already the author of numerous liter­
ary works, Walter R. Davis, associate 
professor of English at the University, 
has added to his collection The Works 
of Thomas Campion. 
Published by Doubleday and Com­
pany, the book includes the Shake­
spearean contemporary's poems, 
masques and treatises, with a selec­
tion of his Latin verse. 
Dr. Davis collaborated with his wife Yolanda to present 26 of Cam­pion's poems in their original state, as songs ^vith music. Mrs. Davis holds a master's degree from the Eastman School of Music and has presented violin and xaola concerts. 
Davis began his introduction by ex­panding on the literary qualities which form the person of Thomas Campion. He gives a somewhat detailed analysis of Campion's writing stj'le and gen­eralized explanation of his works. 

Dr. Davis received his BA from-Trinity College and his PhD from Yale University. Before coming to Notre Dame in 1960 he taught at the University of Rochester, Williams Col­lege and MIT. He is the author of a book on Sir Philip Sidney's Arcadia and several articles on English Renais­sance lyric and fiction. Recently, Dr. Davis completed a study of Elizabe­than fiction for which he was awarded an arts and humanities grant from Notre Dame for 1966-67. Currently, he is engaged in an anthology of criti­cism on Shakespeare's Much Ado About Nothing for Spectrum Books. 
The Works of Thomas Campion is dedicated to the memor)' of Noah Greenberg, tlie late director of the New York Pro Musica, who died in January of 1966. Greenberg's last per­formance locally was at the dedication of the Notre Dame Memorial Library in the spring of 1964. 
Up and Down in the Wild Blue Yonder 
In a few years ND graduate engi­
neering students might be doing their 
homework deep in the Atlantic Ocean 
or atop a missile at one of the gov­
ernment's space centers. It would be 
the result of a Department of Defense 
grant which will pay an average of 
$200,000 each of the next three years 
for the research services of the College 
of Engineering. 
ND won one of 50 grants awarded 

after 171 schools submitted 479 proj­
ects in the fields of physical, environ­
mental, medical, social, behavioral and 
engineering sciences. The government 
is awarding the funds to establish 
"new academic centers of excellence 
in research." 
The University requested $1,041,­

000 for the project but the Defense 
Department limited funds to $600,000 
for each school. More funding may 
be forthcoming later, however. 
Dr. Harry C. Saxe, who heads the University's project, explained that it concerns the technology of military vehicles — both sea and airborne. 
The deep-sea engineering research, for instance, will try to find ways of improving the maneuverability of ships which travel 15-20,000 feet be­low the ocean's surface. One of the problems of high spteed vehicle per­formance to be researched is the con­trol and guidance of missiles. 
Initially all the work at Notre Dame \vill be theoretical. Dr. Saxe explained, but later he hopes the 25 graduate students and 15 to 20 faculty mem­bers who will be working on the proj­ect will get into actual experimental testing. 
He is already discussing the ptossi­bility of working with Florida Atlantic University's department of ocean engi­neering and with Illinois Institute of Technology which is setting up a Midwest lake and stream research center on Lake Michigan. For ex­periments on missiles and other high speed defense vehicles. Dr. Saxe says the engineers might go to Texas, Ala­bama or California to work at the government's space centers. 
Heading research groups imder Dr. Saxe will be Dr. Bernard D. Cullity, professor of metallurgical engineering; Dr. La^vrence H. N. Lee, professor of 
DR. SAXE Studying subs. 
engineering science; Dr. Kwang T. Yang, professor of mechanical engi­neering; and Dr. Francis M. Koba­yashi, professor of engineering science. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, said the proposal "represents the most promising in­volvement we could conceive of in relation to the University's well-de­veloped plan for the improvement of instruction and research in our Col­lege of Engineering." 
PROFESSOR GLEASON A pro-historian. 

AntihistorylsNoWIn" 
There are antiwar movements, anti-hate movements and antigovemment movements. Now, according to Dr. Philip Gleason, a speciaUst in the history of the Catholic Church in America, an "antihistorical spirit" is evident in the work of some current students of American Catholicism. 
The ND professor describes this attitude as "the insistence that we con­front situations today that are totally new and different and that history has nothing to tell us. Our history, ac­cording to this view, is a story of missteps and misunderstanding; we should therefore cut our losses, and go on from where we are with no looking back over our shoulders at the melancholy record of our bumblings and -ivrong turnings up to now." 
In addressing a recent meeting of his history teacher colleagues, Gleason said the most current example of this antihistorical approach is The De-Romanization of the American Cath­olic Church, a book by Rev. Joseph F. Scherer and Edward Wakin. These two authors give a sociological anal­ysis of American Catholicism, their 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 

primary interest being in the con­
temporary scene. But they also ven­
ture into history to put the past and 
present story of American Catholics 
in perspective. Only their attempt was 
not to find a meaning in the present 
as history can do. 
"In their anxiety to be 'with it' 

today," Gleason said, "those who hold 
this sort of position seem sometimes to 
come very close to despising their 
past. This is making of history a grab 
bag of horrible examples which may 
be used as polemical weapons in the 
controversies of the present day, an 
approach that gets us nowhere in the 
effort to deepen our understanding of 
either the past or the present." 
In his talk Gleason called on Cath­

olics to confront and understand their 
history, using it "as the normal in­
dividual uses his own past to locate 
himself and identify himself as a 
person among persons." 
Among the chief problems for the historian who wishes to apply new ideas and concepts to the study of American Catholic history is the new­ness and imprecision of such notions as "pluralism," "diaspora," "ecumen­ism," "community," "sacral society," "secularization" and "Americaniza­tion," Gleason stated. 
The term "secularization," he pointed out, has ambiguous meanings —both as something good (as opposed to an exaggerated otherworldliness) and bad (as identified with material­istic goals)—and historians who fail to clarify such terms end up "adding confusion to confusion." 
Gleason explained two methods of attempting to make history relevant to the present. In using what he called the "history-in-reverse" method—that of taking a current issue and working backwards from the present to the past—there is one drawback. Looking Ijack with the attitudes and values of today tempts a person "to pass over­hasty negative Judgments on the past," Gleason said. 
The other method is the natural historical order — working forward from what we know about the past to show how conditions that existed at an earlier time are related to mat­ters which have taken on great signif­icance at the present. 
"All historians should develop a sensitivity to the concerns of the present," Gleason feels, "to better be able to bring the knowledge of history to bear in the contemporary discus­sion during this lively postconciliar period. As Catholics we have a stake in what is going on in the Church at present and as historians we have a 
Smarter Every Year 
The percentage of Notre Dame fresh­men on the Dean's List has doubled in five years, statistics from the Uni­versity Registrar's Office show. 
A total of 254 freshmen (17 percent of the class) had averages of 3.25 to 
4.0 (4.000 equals a straight "A" average) last school year, compared with 114 (or 8 percent) in the 1962­63 school year. An increase from 7 to 12 percent was also noted in the percentage of freshmen with non­Dean's List "B" averages (3.0 to 3.249). The percentage of all fresh­men with averages above 3.0 has gone from 16 to 29 percent in five years. 
Tomorrow's Urban Planners 
Drawing and building blocks aren't "kid's stufT' for fifth-year architecture students who employ these trades for their required final dieses. 
As a graduate requirement each student must submit a thesis which includes a design (sketches or a scale model construction) and an analysis (either a paper or a verbal presenta­tion). The subject matters this year ranged from airports to museums. 
In preparing the final draft, the students found the greater part of their job was communicating with their source of information. Although their projects were for "practice," they had to be exact and workable for a specific location. So students who always found it extremely difficult to send off a note to parents or home­town girls found themselves excelling in the ranks of letter ^vriters. 
Some students could also travel to the proposed site for their construc­tion but Robert Bodnar, James Vel­
leco and Robert Harmicar chose 
Malawi, Africa as the subject for their 
presentation. They won the Ralph 
Thomas Sollitt Prize for design for 
their combined thesis which included 
four proportional constructions of a 
capital complex, the Malawi national 
assembly, the high court and ministry 
of works. In addition they produced 
a motion picture to accompany their 
%vritten and verbal analysis. 
Gerald McArdle was the recipient of the Gertrude S. Sollitt Prize for structure. McArdle's display was a Fort Wayne housing project. De­signed as a row-housing development for low income families, it covered an area of 26 acres. 
In past years the G.S. Sollitt prize was awarded to only one student but the 1%7 competition brought forth two equal works of art. Orbie Overly was the other structure prize winner. His design was of the Metropolitan Junior College in Kansas City, Mo. Richard Fiori worked with Overly in developing the junior college display. 
453 Degrees in the Shade 
The late summer days were par­ticularly precious to the 453 men and women who spent the first part of the vacation season working up to their big day, Aug. 4. That date marked the climax of the ND summer session and was set aside for presen­tation of degrees at the 50th summer session commencement. There were nine PhDs, 409 master's degrees and 35 undergraduate degrees conferred at the Grotto by Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, academic vice-president of the University. 
Rev. Neil G. McCluskey SJ, visit­ing professor of education and former academic vice-president of Gonzaga 
duty  to  the  present  as  well  as  the  MODEL FOR AAALAWI  
past."  A view from Notre Dame.  
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER  13  

University, told the graduates and 
their guests that church-related col­
leges and universities will gain the 
financial support necessary for sur­
vival only if "they recognize their dis­
tinctive role and live up to their re-
Sfwnsibility to contemporary society." 
He pointed out the "tragedy is that 
so few of the 817 American church-
related institutions of higher educa­
tion have been able successfully to 
articulate a distinctive philosophy to 
justify their existence." 
He cited statistics which indicate 
that within 10 years 80 percent of 
the college-level students will be en­
rolled in public institutions. 
More The Merrier in Toityo 
There was room for only 10 on the 
plane to Tokyo. But the three Notre 
Darners who were named alternates 
in the selection of the University's 
first scholars at Sophia University 
couldn't take "sorry" for an answer. 
"They were so eager to go," reports 
Dean William Burke, "that they asked 
permission to find their own ways 
over there. So we contacted Sophia 
and they said they would be happy 
to have them." 
The 13 students in Japan, plus 36 in France and another 36 in Austria make up the largest Sophomore Year Abroad contingent since Notre Dame started the program in 1964-65. Seven of the students at the Catholic Uni­versity of the West in Angers, France are St. Mary's College girls. 
The students who elect — and are selected — to study abroad pay basi­cally the same price as they would for a year in South Bend. The only "extra" is what they pay for traveling around the country during their holi­days, according to Dean Burke. At Innsbruck University, which has a month-long break at Christmastime, this has averaged about $600-$800, he added. 
The courses Notre Dame students take at the foreign universities are the same as those listed in the catalog for their home campus. "There is no doubt of the validity of their academic courses," according to Dean Burke, "because we contract with the foreign universities to teach just what we want them to have." 
This is necessary, he explained, be­cause foreign schools don't have reg­ular exams and attendance require­ments. Most foreign schools require examinations just before graduation 
— and students who are on programs such as the Sophomore Year Abroad aren't around then. 
The curriculum for the students in Japan this year includes courses 
u (taught in English) in religious history of the Orient, social science, com­parative literature of the Orient, Ori­ental history and Japanese language for beginners. The emphasis will be in getting them involved in Eastern culture. Dean Burke said. 
ALUMNI 
"We're just playing it by ear," he said, "but the number of students in Japan could jump as high as 20 next year. We're also looking forward to adding universities in South America and Spain to our program in the very near future." 
 SURVEY 

PHOTCX^RAPHER EYES A REUNION CLASS What's going on in there? 
PART OF WHAT THEY HAD TO SAY 
yOTRE Dame Alumni are vitally " interested in all aspects of their University. And they're pretty much pleased with the \vay things have been going on Campus, although they do have some suggestions for areas that need to be improved. 
Their comments, as revealed on the survey sent last spring to all men and women who have received degrees from the University, are just now being digested by the Alunmi Office staff and other officials. 
And there's plenty to be con­sumed—even though the number of returns wasn't as high as expected. Of the 40,000 mailed, there were 23,466 which never found their way back to the Social Science Training and Research Lab. 
But Dr. William Liu and his aides had enough to keep them busy coding, punching and analyzing all summer. Besides those not returned, there were 136 survey sheets which were marked not valid because the respondent had not graduated. There were 26 others returned blank—some because the addressee had moved or died and othere just because the person did not want to participate. 
There were also 146 returned after the lab had to set its cutoff date. So the final number of valid returns in­cluded in the study was 16,226. 
Of particular interest to the entire University are the statistics revealed concerning the attitudes of Alumni toward the change to lay leadership in the ND governing body. Also at-
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 
tracting attention jure their suggestions 
for improving various areas of the 
University. 
Among the Alumni who returned 
the survey, 84.14 percent felt favor­
ably toward the change to lay leader­
ship; only 6.79 percent had an un­
favorable reacdon; and 9.07 percent 
had no opinion. 
Young Alumni React. As might be 
predicted, the younger Alumni are 
more favorably inclined toward the 
change in leadership. Ninety percent 
of those in the 20-24 age group were 
in favor of it while 5 percent were 
opposed to it and another 5 percent 
had no opinion. 
In the oldest group, 65 and over, only 69 percent favored the change; 8 percent felt unfavorably; and 23 percent had no opinion. In the inter­vening age groups there was a nearly steady decline in the number of those who favored the change. 
The percentages of those favorably inclined in the various age groups were as follows: 87 percent of 25-29­year-olds; 88 percent of 30-34-year­olds; 85 percent of 35-39-year-olds; 83 percent of 40-44-year-olds; 79 percent of 45-49-year-olds; 82 percent of 50-54-year-olds; 80 piercent of 55­59-year-olds; and 80 percent of 60­64-year-olds. 

Whether or not an Alumnus at­tended graduate school—at Notre Dame or another college—apparently had little bearing on opinions regard­ing the change to lay leadership. Eighty-four percent of both those who had attended graduate school and those who had not were in favor of the change. 
Six percent of those who had taken advanced work felt unfavorably toward the change and 10 percent of them had no opinion. Of those who didn't go on for a higher degree, 8.5 percent felt unfavorably and 8.5 percent had no opinion. 
Cite Greatest Needs. According to the majority of Alumni, the program at Notre Dame which needs strongest emphasis is faculty development. Of those who returned the survey, 54 percent checked this on a list of areas which should get more attention in terms of the continued growth and development of the University. 
Next important to them was the area of graduate education which 33 percent of them checked. Student aid programs was an area mentioned by 23 percent and "research pro­grams" was checked by 18 percent. In less need of improvement, accord­ing to the survey results, are physical facilities (checked by 7 percent) and residence halls (checked by 9 per­cent) . 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 

For the most part these areas to be improved were ranked in the same order of significance by each age group. There were a few interesting exceptions, however. 
For instance, more 20-24-year-olds (24 jjercent) thought residence halls needed more emphasis than research programs (which was checked by only 21 percent). 
Four age groups, 40-44, 45-49, 60­64 and 65 and over, thought student aid funds deserved more attention than graduate education. It might be that these Alumni, who likely have children in college now, are more cognizant of the rising cost of educa­tion. 
Enough for a Book. The survey, taken by the Social Science Training and Research Lab under the direction of Dr. William Liu, revealed other in­formation concerning ages, residences, occupations, education and opinions of Alumni. 
Many who responded took the time to add comments to their check marks. These remarks were forwarded to the Alumni Office and will eventually find their way to other University officials. 
The survey statistics and these ad­ditional comments could be the basis for a whole book on Notre Dame Alumni. Future issues of the ALUM­NUS will reveal more of the survey; but, just as "a teaser," here are a few of the messages attached to the questionnaires. 
A San Franciscan wrote, "While the development in Notre Dame cited here is imdoubtedly beneficial, there 
BILL LIU and HELPER Alumni mystique unveiled. 

is another trend in progress there 
which I strongly object to and I wish 
this iiad appeared on your question­
naire. 
"That is the growing official sanc­tion of secularism and spiritual decline among students and facidty. Or perhaps it should be expressed as a more or less conscious depiartiure from Catholic orthodoxy and worship. This, I think, is almost satanic, and if it is allowed to continue at the recent pac^ I fear it will wreck all the good things in the intellectual order which are taking place at Notre Dame. 
"I hope it will not prove to be necessary to decide whether to be good at being Catholic OR good at being a university. But if this is necessary, I would opt for the first because it is more transcendentally important to individuals and to the society at large." 
A New Yorker revealed these thoughts: "I went to ND in 1945-49. It was a time when quite often the 'average' boy like myself (academic­ally) could go to ND. ND is an emo­ticnal thing to me and to many boys yet and I hope it wU continue to be so. "I think this emotionalism tends to disgust real educators who consider it irrelevant. But I for one have a lot of faith in emotion. 
Immortal Inuge. "I wish that more good, solid, average boys who have always wanted to go to ND could go. .. . If a boy is a good all-around boy, meaning popular, maybe an athlete or good in some other extra­ciuricular activity, gets possibly 900 to 1000 on College Boards or even below, and is giving his all most or all of the time in his endeavors, I say this boy should have a spot at Notre Dame. 
"I at last know, and so do you, that Notre Dame wll always be like Babe Ruth and Joe Louis. This, partly, is what makes ND different and some­how 'better" in my regard. Being this different emotionally, I think ND owes something to all the boys in the future who, almost from infancy, Svant to go to Notre Dame.' I don't have the ans^vers as to how, but I do feel this ^vay strongly." 
Always refreshing are the humorous remarks. One man thought column B, printed for the convenience of IBM coders, might be "some sort of sur­reptitious sociological plot." Another gentieman who overlooked the direc­tions accompanying the questions asked, "Is this an experiment by the psychology department to find out just what kind of response you will get to an incomplete questioimaire?" 
That's enough for now. More on the Alunmi Smvey in the next issue. 
15 
Father Riehle holds a degree in 

PEOPLE 
business administration from Notre 
Reasons for a Reappraisal 
The profoimd change in the Church's 
thinking on marriage is good reason 
for a reconsideration of required 
celibacy for priests, according to Rev. 
Jolm A. O'Brien, director of ND's 
Bureau of Religious Research. 
"We've never had in my lifetime 
such a world-wde demand for a re­
examination and a reappraisal of the 
Church's traditional stand on this 
subject," the well-known theologian 
points out. 
Although he himself is hesitant to predict ony date for a change in the rule which requires priests to remain unmarried. Father O'Brien comments, "I have heard predictions that wthin a decade the right of every human adult — regardless of his position — to marriage and procreation will be respected not only by secular govern­ments but by ecclesiastical authorities as well." 
Celibacy is solely a matter of eccle­siastical discipline and hence involves no dogma or doctrines of the Church, according to Father O'Brien, who is a member of the advisory council of the recently formed National Associa­tion of Pastoral Renewal. The asso­ciation is an organization of priests who favor optional celibacy. 
For the July-August issue of Pas­toral Life, a publication for priests, Father O'Brien wTote that from the fifth century to very recently St. Augustine's disparaging views of mar­riage and sex pervaded Catholic marital theolog)', including the influ­ential \vritings of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
"With marriage regarded as a con­cession to human frailty and lust, and virginity a form of asceticism and heroism, it is easy to see how the ideal of permanent celibacy came to be applied to ecclesiastical ministers," he wrote. 
"If Jerome, Ambrose, Augustine, Aquinas or virtually any of the fadiers and doctors of the Church were to read the (Vatican Council's) Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modem World, and especially the sections on the sanctity of mar­riage and the family and on conjugal love, they would see little resemblance to their own writings," he added. "With (this) statement before them, what group of churchmen would wish to deny to priests or bishops the right to such a sacrament to assist them not only in living upright and holy lives but also in achie\ang sainthood?" 
Much of his article is devoted to a 
review of the history of celibacy in 
the Western Church, which pioints out 
that clergy in the early Church — in­
cluding an estimated 40 Popes — 
were married and that compulsory 
celibacy was imposed over the years 
only ivith great difficulty and with 
many violations. 
In making his case for optional 
celibacy. Father O'Brien points to 
recent surveys which indicate a strong 
support for such a policy among 
younger priests. He also attributes the 
drop in the number of men entering 
the priesthood to the jjolicy of tying 
celibacy to the ministry. 
"This does not mean that marriage 
is to be thrust upon anyone," he 
writes. "There will always be a place 
— and an honorable one — in the ministry for the celibate priest It simply means that the basic himian right and fundamental freedom of every man to decide for himself will be respected. 
"In his recent encyclical. The De­velopment of Peoples, the Pope him­self upheld this right, saying: 'Where the inalienable right to marriage and procreation is lacking, human dignity has ceased to exist.' " 
The article was -written before the appearance of Pope Paul's latest en­cyclical reaffirming celibacy, but Father O'Brien has cited conmien­taries in Catholic publications, such as America, which interpreted the en­cyclical as calling for continuing dis­cussion. 
New Jobs, Familiar Faces 
The new school year brings changes in University assignments few several Holy Cross priests. 
Rev. James L. Riehle CSC, for­merly assistant dean of students, has been named to the dean's post, suc­ceeding Rev. Joseph B. Simons CSC, who will do academic counseling in the University's department of edu­cation. 
FATHER FEY FATHER RIEHLE New challenges. 
Dame and did his theological studies at Holy Cross College in Washing­ton, DC, before being ordained in 1964. He served a year as chaplain at Notre Dame before being appointed an assistant pastor at Sacred Heart Parish in New Orleans. He was as­sistant dean of students for the 1966­67 school year. 
Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, formerly 
superior of St. Joseph Hall, will suc­
ceed Rev. Joseph W. Hoffman CSC 
as University chaplain. Father Hoff­
man will be the rector of the new 
student residence. Holy Cross Hall, 
and associate chaplain. 
Father Fey received his B.A. in 1947 from Notre Dame and, follow­ing theological studies at Holy Cross College in Washington, DC, was or­dained in 1951. He was an assistant pastor at Sacred Heart Parish in New Orleans for a dozen years before as­suming the post of superior at St Joseph Hall. 
The three assistant University chaplains will be Rev. John Dupuis CSC, Rev. John Marek CSC and Rev. Daniel Curtin CSC. 
Another appointment is that of the Rev. Ralph F. Dunn CSC as head of a new Psychological Services Center on the third floor of the Infirmary. Father Dunn and Dr. Charles J. Arens, both of whom are clinical psy­chologists, will assist University stu­dents with emotional problems by providing evaluation and treatment services. 

Rector appointments to the Uni­versity's halls are as follows: Rev. Joseph O'Neill CSC, Alumni; Rev. Joseph McGrath CSC, Badin; Rev. Harry Eichom CSC, Breen-Phillips; Rev. William Hund CSC, Carroll; Rev. Matthew Miceli, Cavanaugh; Rev. James Flanigan CSC, Dillon; Rev. James Shilts CSC, Farley; Rev. Lloyd Teske CSC, Fisher; Father Hoffman, Holy Cross; Father Dupuis, Howard; Rev. James McGrath CSC, Keenan-Stanford; Rev. Edward Shea CSC, Lyons; Rev. David Burrell CSC, Morrissey; Rev. Michael Gavin CSC, Pangbom; Rev. Clarence Durbin, St. Edward's; Father Marek, Sorin; Rev. Daniel O'Neil CSC, Walsh; and Rev. Thomas Blantz CSC, Zahm. 
Record-Holder Celebrates 
A man who borders on the unbeliev­able is celebrating his 50th anniver­sary in the priesthood this year. The 79 years of Rev. Bernard H. Lange CSC have encompassed the careers of teacher, carpenter and championship weightUfter as well as priest 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
FATHER UNGE Still 
Since 1904, "the good ole days when we raised our own livestock and had steak for breakfast," Father Lange notes, he has seen fantastic changes which have brought Notre Dame from 302 students to die pres­ent enrollment of more than 7000. He first came to ND for prep school and he can still remember the time he stood on the left shoulder of Our Lady's statue atop the Golden Dome and looked out across the streets of Mishawaka. "Can you believe that they wanted to kick me out?" Father questioned proudly. 
After graduating from the Univer­sity and receiving his doctorate from St. Edward's University in Austin, Father Lange taught biology, com­parative anatomy and physical an­thropology until 1935 when failing eyesight put an end to his teaching career. Now that he has more than enough time to spare, he sometimes pulls out one of his old anatomy textbooks from his medical school days (he once wanted to be a sur­geon). He donated his $12,000 col­lection of books in the field of anthro­pology to the University library. 
"I was almost kicked out of my teaching job, too," he recalls. "I used to scuffle with the 'heads' all the time because they thought I was being too good to my students. My methods would probably not be acceptable to modem-day authorities." 

Since 1941 Father Lange has oper­ated a private gymnasium on campus and supervised the body building ex­ercise of thousands of students. Re­ligion and his gym have been the dominant forces in Father Lange's life. More than 500 students work out in the two-story building which has become the padre's home. His rela­tionship with the boys is what Father terms "the best." 
"I could ask for nothing better," he says. "Sometimes I get madder than blazes at some guy. Then I laugh, 
 FATHER HOLOERITH 
 pulling their weights over the long 
pat the guy on the back and tell him to forget it. I found that the secret of getting along with them is to never forget that you were a boy once your­self." 
Father Lange started his weight­lifting hobby in 1918, a year after his ordination. A decade later, he was ranked the fourth strongest man in the world and set what is still a world's record in the supine press. While lying flat on his back he lifted a 403-pound weight above his head seven times. 
Father does not agree with those who put too much emphasis on sports and physical activity or those who take the opposite stand. "If you want to be a fool, go ahead and be one; but at the same time you have to realize the value of the saying 'all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,'" he argued. 
The trade of carpentry which Father also employs is attributed to the "monkey see, monkey do" the­orem. "My father was a cabinet­maker and so tools were at my dis­posal. I was always putting nicks in blades and I finally learned where those nicks really went." His skill en­abled him to build the necessary fur­niture and install the plumbing for showers in his weightlifting quarters. 
Although Father Lange's past is at least "unsual," he insists he has only one real "peculiarity." "I am always myself," he says. "It's because of that that people sometimes wonder." 
Golf 'Pro' Retires 
With a remarkable record both as supervisor of University buildings and tutor of the Irish linksmen for 28 years. Rev. George L. Holderith CSC has plenty of memories to solidly fill his retirement years. And even though he officially retired June 30 he is staying on as supervisor of the Uni­versity golf course. 
 course. 
From 1932 until his appointment as supervisor of buildings in 1952, Father Holderith filled the shoes of an American history professor and was rector of several halls where he claims he foimd a great relationship with the fellows and became a student again himself. 
One of his most notable achieve­ments at ND was the development of many outstanding golfers and golf teams. "The 1944 team supplied me with the greatest thrill of my life," Father recalls. "Our Irish boys dropped a one-point decision to Pur­due in the opener, but rebounded vigorously to defeat all six remaining foes and went on to win the National Collegiate Championship." 
To set the record straight. Father Holderith was asked why women can­not play on the University "green field." He reported there is actually nothing ^vritten that forbids women golfers, but that through the years it has just become an OT) jjolicy. The real reason for the absence of women is there are no lockers or showers for them. 
"Actually we haven't had any prob­lem ivith women beating down our door to play on our course," he ex­plained. "When we started in '27 we were stricdy a boys' school and golfing has stayed that way since. Even with all the talk about the closer relationship viith St. Mary's, I don't think they wU ever become united as far as 'tearing up the green. 
From his view of the 44 years which he has spent at Notre Dame, Father Holderith sees its growth as natural. "But it is getting to the point where it doesn't seem to stop," he says. "I would like to see the campus stay right where it is now. I would hate to see the students as well as these buildings lose their identity — they're just too great for that." 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER \967 OCTOBER 
lOWKY KENEFICK Knowing how to hook 'em. 
SEIZING THE OPPORTUNITY 
Classes 
CDWARD Kenefick '48 has hit upon 
a scheme to bring the thousands of jobless people in his city face to face with an employer—or at least a job counselor. He's using what he calls "the best means of communication yet devised by man," television. 
The CBS vice-president and general manager of Chicago's WBBM-TV has attracted attention across the country with his "Opportunity Line" show on Saturday afternoons. The program is hosted by Bill Lowry, a 32-year-old Negro who is personnel manager for Inland Steel Container Co. 
Lowry is "a terrific guy," Kenefick says, and his easygoing personality helps put the show over. Lowry lists the jobs which the Illinois State Em­plo)'ment Service informs the station are available and he also interviews people who have been hired through the program. The interviews provide inspiration for others who are hoping to find a path to a paycheck. 

LouTy encourages his audience to dial the "Opportunity Line" number and their calls are answered by 33 counselors from the state employment bureau. The counselors direct the callers to one of their offices where they may be scheduled for a job inter­view or placed in a training program. 
The show started June 10 and as of Aug. 8 there had been 18,000 calls —as many as 2700 in one day—and 3000 people had been placed in jobs or training programs as a result of the show. 
Kenefick is quick to point out that "one of the disturbing elements amidst our success is these 15,000 other people who didn't get jobs." But there are encouraging aspects of that situation, too. The Department of Labor was so impressed with the show that they sent some of their men to Chicago to discuss a research project concerning the people who hadn't been placed. 
Kenefick got the idea for the show after meetings of the Business Ad­visory Council for Chicago's Urban League. As a member of the council, a nonaction group organized to keep businessmen abreast of the Negro attimde, he was continually hearing pleas for jobs for kids just getting out of school. 
Kenefick learned there were plenty of jobs available but for various rea­sons the jobless and the jobs weren't getting together. "I thought to my­self, 'I wish I could do something to help,'" he explains. Then the idea for the "sometiiing" hit him. 
It wasn't just an accident that the very first program attracted 2700 calls. Kenefick organized his forces to pro­mote the show. They sent letters to the 300 Negro ministers in Chicago explaining the plan and they got news releases in all the Chicago papers. The releases were also translated into Spanish for the neighborhood week­lies. 
Kenefick enlisted the backing of The Defender, Chicago's Negro news­paper, and he had 500 posters—400 in English and 100 in Spanish—posted in the depressed neighborhoods to ad­vertise the show. 
"You know all these disadvantaged people have television sets," Kenefick pointed out. 
Now he has an opportunity boom on his hands. AP, the Nezu York Times, Wall Street Journal and News­week have carried stories on the show. The same kind of show is to be tried in CBS affiliates in NYC, Philadelphia and St. Louis and stations from all around the country are writing for more information. 
"We're onto something here," Kenefick believes, "which is not just a partial solution to the employment problem, but a way in which public television can play an important role in imderdeveloped urban areas." 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 19i57 OaOBER 
New Chief of Chaplains 
The chaplain's chaplain is Maj. Gen. Francis L. Sampson '36. And he officially assumed the title this sum­mer when President Johnson named him chief of the Army's 1800 chap­lains now on active duty throughout the world. 

Monsignor Sampson, who has been a chaplain for 25 years, served as Deputy Chief of Chaplains with the rank of brigadier general since Febru­ary of 1966 until his promotion was confirmed by the Senate in July. In his new p>ost he has responsibility for religious, morale and character guid­ance matters throughout the Army. 
During his distinguished service career, Monsignor Sampson has reaped many awards including the Distinguished Service Cross, the sec­ond highest American military medal. 
He began his career as chaplain in 1942 with the 501st Parachute In­fantry Regiment. In June of 1944, as the invasion of Normandy began, he jumped with his paratroop unit over France. He was captured by the Germans but managed to escape. Soon afterward he volunteered to stay 
CHAPLAIN SAMPSON The Paratrooper Padre. 

with 14 wounded men as the Ameri­cans pulled back from a German counterattack. He was wounded dur­ing this incident but his conduct earned him the Distinguished Service Cross. 
After returning to England he again jumped with his unit into Hol­land. In December of 1944 the Ger­mans captured him again; this time in Bastogne, Belgium. Imprisoned near the Baltic Sea, he remained by his own request in an enlisted men's prison instead of being sent to an officers' camp. 
He was liberated in 1945 and re­turned to the United States. The chaplain found he couldn't remain a civilian long, however, and returned to active duty the next year. During 
FALL CLASS REUNIONS Fall Class Reunions immediately following the football games have been planned by class officers. At press time, the schedule reflected these class gatherings: 
CLASS OF 1928 
Michigan State 104 O'Shaugh. 
CLASS OF 1929 
So. Cal Engr. Bldg. 
Michigan State Engr. Bldg. 
CLASS OF 1949 
Michigan State 204 O'Shaugh. 
CLASS OF 1951 
Michigan State Mhgny Rm, 
Morris Inn 
CLASS OF 1955 
Michigan State Shamrock Rm, 
Morris Inn 
CLASS OF 1958 
So. Cal Mhgny Rm, Morris Inn 
CLASS OF 1959 
So. Cal 204 O'Shaugh. 
CLASS OF 1962 
Iowa To be announced at game 
CLASS OF 1966 
Calif. .—To be announced at game 

the Korean War he participated in another combat jump with paratroop»­ers at Sunchon. In the following years he held assignments in the US and Europe. 
In July, 1962 he was assigned to Germany and, as vicar delegate for Europe, represented Francis Cardinal Spellman, military vicar of US armed forces Catholic personnel. In Janu­ary, 1963 he was named a domestic prelate with the title of right reverend monsignor. 
Monsignor Sampson is the author of two books. Paratrooper Padre and Look Out Below. His other military decorations include the Bronze Star Medal, the Army Commendation Medal and the Purple Heart. 
Just standard Procedure 
A character with the unlikely name of John Grosspietsch plays a promi­nent role in the saga called "Super Tire Meets the July 4th Monster." And he shows up in another install­ment which asks the penetrating question, "Can Super Tire Really Outwit the Forces of Evil?" 
But his fame doesn't stop there. He's also in a vignette labeled "We've Got 30,000 Gallons of Gasoline Riding on Super Tire" and another which points out "Our Gasoline Credit Card Is Good for Breakfast." 
Well, you expect more from Stan­dard and you get it. In fact the Standard Oil Company has John Grosspietsch blown out of all propor­tion. His name has been marching across the pages of Time, Newsweek, Sports Illustrated and Reader's Digest on Standard Oil credit card 528-371­253-6. 
It was a long path to the glory road for John Grosspietsch who first came to the public's attention when he received his bachelor of science degree at Notre Dame in January of 1955. And it was quite by accident that he reached the epitome of fame. You've just got to be in the right place wth the right credit card at the right time—^with the right moniker. 
John Hancock may have had a pretty flamboyant signature for an insurance man but then John Gross­pietsch is no amateur either. He's an advertising executive for Mac Manus, John and Adams Inc. of Chicago. They just happen to handle the Standard Oil account. 
The Governor's Choice 
His exceptional record as Master Calendar Judge in Las Vegas has earned John C. Mowbray '49 a seat on the Nevada Supreme Court. The appointment of a Democrat by a GOP Governor is part of the evi­dence for the case in favor of Judge Mowbray. 
When he became Master Calendar Judge in February, 1965, some crim­inal cases had been waiting to be heard for three years and, in addition, there was a six-month moratorium on all civil cases. Judge Mowbray im­mediately set to work — doubling and redoubling the calendar. He sched­uled trials every day of the week in­cluding Saturdays and even heard some cases in the evening. By July 
BIOW-UP John Grosspietsch: Plenty of mileage. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
GOV. PAUL LAXALT, JUDGE JOHN MOWBRAY and MOWBRAY FAMILY Reward for a master iudge. 
the backlog of criminal cases was 
gone and the civil case moratorium 
was lifted. 

Another significant accomplishment 
of his career was his plan for rep­
resenting indigent defendants by cre­
ating the post of public defender in 
Clark count}'. This plan was cited 
by the Ford Foundation as the most 
outstanding one submitted nationally. 
The Foundation, through Judge 
Mowbray's efforts, granted $196,000 
for the program. 

Another of his major projects was 
spearheading passage of "battered 
child" legislation to protect mis­
treated children. 
On Record-
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Sj-nnora Bav and JAMES L. H.WES JR. '58. Miss Linda Suzanne Smitlt and PAUL MI­CH.AEL LEHNER '63. Miss Susan Elizabeth Malioncy and Dr. DIPAK K. BAGCHI '64. Miss Jane Ann Nagle and JOHN JAMES HAT­GROVE '64. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Nancy Jean Courtney and RICHARD A. 
LEITTEX '57, Aug. 25, Notre Dame. 
Miss Joan Tilley and HUGH MtJRPHY '59, 
New York City, May 20. 
Miss Sandra Ann Andreas and WlLLL'V^f GER.'UU) McMURTRIE '60, Wasliington, D.C., July 8. 
Miss Kathleen Marv McComb and MARTIN 
JOSEPH D.ALEY '6: MS'63, South Bend. July 1. 
Miss Patricia Eileen O'Day and JOHN WESLEY 
CROWE '62, Eden, N.Y., July 8. Miss Erangcline Eybsen and RICHARD E. SOBONYA '63, Lakeivood, Ohio, May 27. Miss Marilise Thcrese Huyot and WILLIAM 
V. V.ASU JR. '63. Miss Janice Elaine Nou-acki and RANDY AL­LEN KIENSTRA '64, South Bend, June 17. 
Miss Kathleen Maria Bayer and JAMES PHIL­IP H-ARNISCH '65, Manliasset, L.I., N.Y., June 24. 
Miss Mary Jo Postorino and CYRIL C. KEN­NEDY '65, Chicago, July 29. Miss Conchita Vargas and HILDEBRANDO RAMIREZ '65, Bogota, Colombia, July 1. MUs Carol Flaherty and RICHARD ANGELOT­TI '66, Notre Dame, July 29. Miss Rose Marj- Widelski and THOMAS A. CLARE '66, Notre Dame, June 24. Miss Mary Ann Whcaton and JOHN S. JACK­OBOICE '66, Erans\illc, Ind., May 20. Miss Mary Louise Waldvogcl and JOHN PAUL KUMIXECZ '66. South Bend, July 8. Miss Ann Ruth Brodic and NORMAN MAN­DEL LLB'66. Terre Haute, Ind., June 19. 
Judge Mowbray's term on the Supreme Court begins Oct 1. For his family one of the nicest aspects of the appointment was being honored at a reception in Gov. Paul Laxalt's Mansion. 
CPA Tops Them Ml 
Sept 25, when members of the na­tional society of Certified Public Ac­countants put their heads together at their annual meeting in Portland, Oregon, they figure on honoring John S. Hayford '62. 
Hayford topped the 16,809 candi­dates around the country who took 
Miss Bcmadettc Grace Delmore and LEO THOM.AS COLLINS '67, Notre Dame, June 5. Miss Jeanne Marie Walters and JAMES ROB­
ERT HARBISON '67, South Bend, June 5. Miss Linda Lou Mantel and MICHAEL ED­WARD KURUZAR '67, South Bend, July 8. Miss Susan Ann Ford and GARNET PATRICK LEWIS '67, Soutli Bend, June 24. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK H. MARTIN '48, a son, Thomas Paul, June 10. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY GARRUTO '54, a son. Anthony Murray, July 25. Mr. and Mrs. LEON C. GLOVER JR. '57, a son. Leon III, June 9. Ml. and Mre. THOMAS EISENHAXmR '58, a son, Daniel, Feb. 9. Mr. and Mn. JOHN HAYWARD '59, a son, Thomas Andre^c, July 11. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS JOSEPH '59, a daugh­ter. Maria Jane, April 10. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP W. LUDWIG '59, a son, Stephen Wendell, Jan. 29. Mr. and Mis. JACK THOMAS '59, a son. Carter Bertrand, June 13. Mr. and Mrs. B. GREGORY ST. ROM.<UN JR. '60, a daughter, Nicole Francois, June 19. Mr. and Mrs. GERARD J. WELLING '60, a daughter, Stephanie Mara, July 14. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD P. FARLEY '61, a daughter, Bridget Anne, June 20. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES S.ACHER '61 LLB '64, a son, Charles Stephen, June 3. LT(jg) and MIS. THOMAS J. CONNOLLY '62, a son, &fichael David, June 11. Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. KRAUSE '62, a son, Douglas Robert, June 2. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES HARTMAN '63, a daughter, Katherine Alarie, May 6. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM MEEKER '64, a daughter, Mary Regan, Febniary 5. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS MICHAEL ZIRILLE '64, a son, Anthony Micliael, June 24. 
the November, 1966 CPA examina­tion. For earning the highest score he will receive the Elijah Watt Sells gold medal. He ^vas honored earlier this year by the Illinois society of CPAs for having the top score in that state. 
The parts of the examination are as­signed weights as follows: auditing, 5; accounting practice, 5; theory of ac­counts, 5; and commercial law, 1. 
Hayford is an audit supervisor in the Chicago office of Ernst & Ernst and lives in Evanston \vith his wife Barbara and two-year-old daughter. His well-rounded life includes golf, skeet-shooting, collectinsr art and an-
JOHN S. HAYFORD A taste of limelight. 
SYMPATHY 
DONALD L. SMITH '38 on the death of his mother, July 27. THOMAS J. HESSERT '48 on the death of his father, June. WILLIAM R. HESSERT '49 on the death ot his father, June. JAMES S. HEARONS '54 on the death of his mother. May 25.* CHRISTOPHER E. MALONE JR. '54 on the death of his father. WALTER C. WAGNER JR. '54 on the death of his mother, July 20. WILLIAM HINTON '56 on the death of his mother. Jan. 27. VIRGIL LUNARDINI JR. '58 on the death of his father, June. BRIAN H. RHATIGAN '64 on the death of his father. June 13. LAWRENCE M. LUNARDINI '65 on the death of his father, June. WALTER J. O'NEILL '67 on the death ot his father, June 8. 
DEATHS 
EDWIN D. BABBITT '11, Fhgstair, Arizona, June. 
Rev. CHRISTOPHER BROOKE '12, Notre Dame, June 21. Father served as a foreign mis­sionary in Bengal, India, from 1920-29 and 1931­
38. He was chaphin of the St. Joseph Novitiate at Rolling Prairie and from 1958 until his retire­ment last year, was chaplain of Reltz Memorial Hospital, E\*ansviUe. Surviving is a sister. 
RUDOLPH L. KELLY '17, Peoria, III., 1962. Rev. WILLIAM J. D.iVMES '20, St. Louis, Mo., 1964. Sirter M. GENEVIEVE WHITEHEAD MA'21, Uisuline Convent, Toledo, Ohio. 
CHESTER A. WYNNE LLB'22, Oak Park, III., July 17. Wynne, an attorney, played in the same badtficld with the legendary George Gipp. He also won a track monogram at ND. He went into coaching and after serving stints at several colleges he was head football coach and athletic director at 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 oaOBER 
tiques and being a members of Les Cadets de la Chaine des Rotisseurs, a gastronomical society interested in furthering a taste for and knowledge of fine foods and wines. 
ND's Rabbi Reflects 
Where Protestants fear to tread. Rabbi Albert A. Plotkin steps boldly. When he was back on campus for his 25th Reunion in June, the ebullient Jewish leader explained, "Notre Dame has been my entree to the Catholic population." He calls upon his unique heritage — being the University's only rabbi alumnus — in fostering Catho­lic-Jewish dialog in Phoenix, where he serves Temple Beth-Israel. 
"There are some rabbis who will have nothing to do with dialog be­cause they feel that proselytizing is at the heart of it. I think they are wrong. We cannot continue to live in ghettos, even though they be the gilded ghettos of suburbia," he remarked. 
At the heart of Rabbi Plotkin's feelings about Catholics and Jews is the healthy relationship he had as one of four Jewish students in his Notre Dame class. He couldn't recall even one instance of "the sting of preju­dice or discrimination." 
But he does remember, and fondly, his experiences in the ND Glee Club. In Pittsburgh once, the Glee Club 
the U. of Kentucky from 1931-1938. SurvMng are his widow, Mrs. Grace Wynne, 102 S. Maple Ave., Oak Park, UK, a claughter, four brothers, two sisters and four grandchildren. 

J. GERALD CUDDIHY '23, New York City, June 22- Mr. Cuddihy, a resident of Toronto, Canada, and employed there by the Anaconda American Brass Co., Ltd., Avas retired in March and was completing a round-the-world cruise when he took sick aboard the ship. He is survived by three nephews including Edward Cuddihy '58, two grandnephews, two grandnieces and a sister-in-law. 
Sister MARGARET MARY PBVM MA'24, Notre Dame Junior College, Mitchell, S.D. 
HAROLD J. KILEY '26, June. 
Sister M. URSULINE LEEPER CSC '26, St. Catherine School, Ventura, Calif. 

THEODORE P. MARBAUGH '26, Indianapolis, Ind., July. He was a sales representative for the Silver Flash and Trimble Oil Cos. before becom­ing owner in 1935 of the Columbia-Construction Co. Surviving are his widow, Mrs. Mary Mar­baugh, 199 W. 73rd St., Indianapolis, Ind. 46260, a daughter and a son, four sisters and two brothers. 
WILLIAM E. CARTER '27, Newton, N.J., July 
25. A former Newark newspaperman he won fame with his coverage in 1934-35 of the arrest and trial of Bruno lUchard Hauptmann for the Lindbergh baby kidnap-murder. An undergraduate at ND he was president of the University Press Club dur­ing the regime of the late Knutc Rocknc. Mr. Carter was past president of the New Jersey Alum­ni Club of ND. He leaves his wife. Mis. Doris Carter, c/o Heinrich, R.F.D. 2, Box 150, Newton, N.J., and three sisters. 
Sister MARY AUGUSTINE OSU '28, St. Mai^ tin, Ohio, Dec., 1964. 
JAMES F. X. O'BRIEN '28, Miami, Florida, July 17. He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Estellc O'Brien, 12100 SW 60th Court, Miami, Florida 33156. 
JAMES E. KEATING '29 LLB'31, South Bend, June 21. An attorney, he was killed in a three-car crash near Marshall, Mich. Keating was a former assistant US district attorney for the South Bend 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER \967 OaOBER 

chaplain. Rev. Charles McCarra^er 
CSC, now vice-president for student 
affairs, happened to mention he had 
never had kosher food. 
"It was the Passover, so I todc him 

and another priest in hand and we 
went to a kosher restaurant. I had 
to do some fast explaining in Yiddish 
to a rather frightened owner, but 1 
made them gastronomical Jews," he 
said. 
Another time he was asked by the 

director what he said while the rest 
of the singers were praying to a Chris­
tian saint before a performance. 
"I told him I said: 'Abraham, 

Isaac and Jacob — give us a break.'" 
While pursuing his rabbinical stud­ies at Hebrew Union College in Cin­cinnati, Rabbi Plotkin had to weather some bad years in ND football. "When Notre Dame won, I would come down from my room and shout, 'It is a great day for Israel'.' But more often than not I would cower in my room after a loss, unwilling to face the taunts of my fellow students." He recently received his doctorate in He­brew letters from the Los Angeles campus of Hebrew Union College. 
In a reunion talk to his Class of 1942, the Rabbi said the University must retain its underlying religious philosophy. "Going to a Catholic university made me rethink my own faith — the power it must have and 
Div. of US District Court. Surviving besides brs 
widow, Mrs. ^farcella Keating, 1308 E. Wayne 
St., South Bend, Ind. 46615, arc two sons and three 
grandchildren. 
JAMES E. FRIEL JR. '30, Rumson, N.J., July 

25. Surviving are his wife, Mrs. James E. Fricl, 7 Orchard Lane, Rumson, N.J. 07760, a daughter Mrs. Allan J. Powers MA'62, a brother Joseph '29, a brother-in-law Joseph Lenihan '29, a son-in­law Allan J. Powers '51, a son and seven grand­children. 
VINCENT DE PAUL BUSCH '31, Geneva, HI., 

June 23. He is survived by his widow, Mrs. 
tiarian Busch, 1211 Meadows Rd., Geneva, lU. 
60134. . CLIFFORD L. FISHER '31, Morton Grove, BL, 
Nov. 1, 1966. 
ROBERT T. RUPPE '31, Skokie, 111., July 12. Ruppe ^vas president of General GMG Truck Sales in Chicago. He formerly was vice-pres. in charge of maintenance for the Greyhound Corp. in Chicago and at one time served as super­intcndent of shops and equipment for the Chi­cago Transit Authority. Survivors include lus widow, Mrs. Patricia Ruppe, 3619 Foster Ave., Skokie, III. 60076, a son, five daughters, his mother, two stepdaughters, a sister, three brothers and seven grandchildren. 
GILBERT P. AUGUSTINE '32, Metuchen. N.J., June 26. An elementary-school principal in Perth Amboy and founder and director of the 
N.J.
 Federation of Baseball Umpires School, he died of a heart attack while attending £t wedding reception. A former pitcher for ND in the early 1930's, Mr. Augustine umpired in Brooklyn and in 

N.J.
 semipro leagues. Surviving are his widow, Mrs. Florence Augustine, 9 Moraine Rd., Me­tuchen, N.J. 08841, and a daughter, three brothers and five sisters. 


ROBERT N. LEPPERT '32, Aktadeoa, Calif., July. He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Norma Leppert, 1246 Sonoma Dr., Alladena, Calif. 91001. 
ROBERT L. DU BOIS '33, Middlebury, Conn., Jan. 26, 1964. FRANK E. MCLAUGHLIN '35, April l. Phoe­nix. He is survived by his widow, 1342 E. Law­
RABBI PLOTKIN A bite of Kosher. 

the function it must give us in our own lives," he explaineid. 
He was obviously pleased with the new era in Jewish-Catholic reladons wrought by the Second Vatican Coun­cil and proud of the hand he had in placing a rabbi on the ND theology faculty. 
As he strolled about the campus during the Reunion, he was an in­teresting symbol. "That hat is hardly a skull cap," one observer said, point­ing to Rabbi Plotkin's Reunion Class beach hat. 
"I know it isn't, but I'm proud trf it," he answered. "Don't forget — Abraham, Isaac, Jacob .. . and Notre Dame." 
rence Lane, Phoenix, Ariz. 85020. WILLIAM F. CHAPEL L '37, Hint, Mich. WILLIAM G. SCHENK '37 LLB'38, Chicago, 
March 22. He is survived by his wife, Mrs. Helen Schenk, 4201 N. Greemnew Ave., Chicago, III., two sons and two daughters. 
JOSEPH J. LUDWI G '38 MA'42, San Fran­casco, Nov. 5, 1963. Surviving is his widow, Mrs. Mary Ludwig, 80 Brentwood Ave., San Francisco, Calif. 9(127. 
Sister M. AUSTIN KICK RSU UA'39, To. ledo, Ohio, June 27. 
JAMES W. PLUMMER '40, Zanesville, Ohio, July 13. Secretary and treasurer of the Dunzweiler Construction Co. and past president of the Ohio Elks Assoc., Mr. Ffummer died in Cle^'eland after a three-month illness. He is survived by his widow, Mrs. Jane Plummer, 28338 Center Dr., S^anes­ville, Ohio, his parents, two daughters and a son. 
KETTH F. BALL LLB'50, Niles, IiGch., June 

13. Ball, who recently resigned his position as city attorney because of failing health, was a political and civic leader of the community. He is survived by his mother and a sister. 
BROTHER PAUL SCHEIUIL^N CSC '51, Gates Mills, Ohio, July 2. 
Rev. JOHN DE SALES STANDERWICK MA'56, Montour Falls, N.Y., June 23. Father was killed along with the superior general of his community in a plane crash while en route from Elmira, N.Y., to Washington, D.C. He was rector and superior of the community's minor seminary at Montour Falls for ax years prior to his death. 
LAWRENCE T. BURNS '60, Coshocton, Ohio, June 4. He n survived by his widow, Mrs. Alar­garet Bums, Kensington Rd., Coshocton, Ohio 43812, and a brother. 
FACULTY DEATH 
JAMES A. WTTHEY '26, South Bend, July 28. He was a former professor of English and journalism until his retire­ment in 1961. He is survived by five brothers including Paul '27 and John '29. 

MICHAEL J. McGUINNESS '08 has retired Inn, and who would ever guess that the entree from the active practice of law and now receives was roast beef? PAUL FOGARTY was the mas­
his mail at Mercy Villa, 1015 N. Main St., Spring* ter of ceremonies in his usual suave manner. 
mm Club 
I recently had an interesting letter from EDWARD 
F. RIELY '15 who lives in Minonk, III. 61760. Although he had intended to attend the Reunion in June, he reports that instead he spent 10 da>'5 in the hospital. After he was released, he went to New Jersey to recuperate at the home of a daughter. Apparently he made a fine recovery because he sa^-s "the doctor suggested I go back to work, at least part-time.'* 
Our good friend ALVIN H. BERGER '15 took time out from his busy schedule to write a note which was very much appreciated. **Heinie," who lives at RR2, Sturgis, Mich. 49091, says he often recalls the Corby Hall days and the many good friends. He sa>-s he and his good wife spent the winter in Eustis, Fla. "which is about 25 miles north of Orlando." Tliere arc more than 1500 lakes in that county and we may be sure he spent a good share of the time fishing. 
Hcinic reports that he saw ERNIE BURKE in Orlando — "he looks fine and I wouldn't be sur­prised if he lives to be 100 as his food intake includes honey and \-inegar. We like Michigan in the summer where I tend two gardens. I mow grass around and between about 75 trees for exer­cise. As we live near a lake, I fish for relaxation and in the fall hunt rabbits that help themselves to my garden in the summer." 
The .Alumni Office was kind enough to send along the following notes. REV. HEXRY ^fc-ELROY *17 wtis not able to come to the Jubilee Reunion but he offered up Mass on those da^-s for members of the Class of '17. 
^VILLI.^M E. BRADBURY '16 was honored by the Crawford Co. (111.) Bar Assn. for his more than 50 years of law practice. The Bradbury* law firm in Robinson covers a period from 1876 to the present. 
GEORGE W.\AGE 3305 WRIGHTWOOD AVE. 
CHICAGO. ILL. 60647 
191$ 
Class of 1918 Golden Jubilee Reunion Committee *,-ilI be headed bv Chairman Rev. CHARLES J. WILLLAMS. Other members will be CHARLES 
W. CALL, JOHN A. LEMMER, JOSEPH T. RILEY, PETER J. RONCHETTI and Dr. NEIL 
J. "WHITEY" WH.ALEN. Ladies' .Auxiliarv' Committee consists of "Sirs, JOHN A. LEMMER, Mis. PETER J. RON­CHETTI and ^frs. NEIL J. ^VHALEN. This is our '^kick-off^' to get you interested in returning to Campus for our 50-Year Class Re­union. There will be lots more to follow. We really want you back because you're the guy ^vho wtU honestly appreciate seeing *'how the Ole So and So" looks etc. Here's your chance to send a classmate birthday greetings. Oct. 5, PETER J. RONCHETTI, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex.; Oct. 7, THOS. H. KING, 446 Kedzie Dr., E. Lansing, Mich.; Oct. 10, L. E. WAGNER, 17 Wood St., Danbury, Conn. 06812; Oct. 13, ^L G. KAZUS, Buffalo, N.Y. 14216; Oct. 14, JOSEPH T. RILEY, 715 Hackley, Muskegon, Mich.; Oct. 
29, C. G. "CHUBBY" CORCOR.AN '17, 1801 Lowell .Ave., Springfield, 111. 62704. 
Ordination Day, Aug. 4, Rev. C. L. DORE­MUS, Corby Hall, Notre Dame. You Corby Haliers will remember the second-floor prefect Father "D." He still looks the same, most active, pleased to greet you and waiting to see you next June. 
I drove down to the Monogram Dinner with JOHN VOELKERS. "BIG FRANK" RYDZEW­SKI couldn't make it and he missed meeting some teammates and one grand get-together of an c\"er-larger crowd of Monogram men. 
I attended tlie Annual Alumni Banquet and here is another place I fall short. I can't put into words just how great it is to be back at a Reunion. I do not want to appear to just "name drop" — because that would miss many but it was great to see "YOUNG DUTCH" BERGMAN, looking great, and his buddy HARRY BAUJAN looking much younger. Both these guys were telling CH.\RLIE BACHMAN how Young Dutch made him .\ll-.Amcrican tackle. It was interesting to hear Bacliman talk about playing against Jim Tliorpe- Charley looks as though he is ready right now to suit-up. 
CARLETON D. BEY hasn't changed and no doubt is enjoying the best of health as is his friend B. J. VOLL. I never knew that J. PAUL FOG.ARTY wrote "BETTY CO-ED'» —now did field, Mo. 65802. 
Rev. CORNELIUS J. DONOVAN '09, pastor 
of St. Mar>''s Church in W. Quinc>*, Mass. and 
chaplain of the N D Club of Boston, celebrated 
his 50th anniversary as a priest June 18> 
Use the yellow card in this issue to send more 
news. 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 
117 SUNSET AVE. 
LAGRANGE, ILL. 60323 
This is a report on the Class of 1916's 51st anniversary. You all know that after 50 years have passed since you were graduated, >'ou are welcome back every year in June till you lose your interest. LOU KEIFER, PAT MALONEY, TOM HAYES and yours truly represented the 1916 Class and felt at home — and what fun! Lots of fellows like litUe DUTCH BERGMAN and HARRY BOUJAN and CHARLIE BACH­ALAN, P.AUL FOG.ARTY whom we hadn't seen in 30-40-50 years were there. BERNIE VOLL put on his usual party at his son's home on the edge of the Campus — wliat a welcome! Plan on coming back next year, you 1916 Classmates. It may be your last chance to exchange old times. 
Send me some news! 
GROVER F. AlILLER '16 1208 SOUTH MAIN ST. RACINE, WIS. 53403 
More than 30 members of the "War Rent Class of '17," as we were termed by DUKE RIKEY, our Class poet, returned for the Big One, our 50th Reunion. 
BERNARD VOLL, Reunion chairman, presided at our Class dinner Friday night in the Morris 
Maybe this is a good place to remind his class­
mates that he is the author of "Betty Co-Ed," 
the famous college song. 
Paul entertained with the classic story about 
his football pants and a contest with silly prizes 
provided some levity. For example, LEO VOGEL, 
a real "egg head" in more than one sense of the 
word, won the biggest comb you ever saw. 
JOHN RILEY read a letter of greetings from JOHNNY REYNOLDS, alias Father M. Simon of the Trappists. It was beautiful and touching; no pun intended, of course, but a purse was made up by individual contributions for both him and Father MIKE EARLY, who said our Class Mass Saturday morning in the chapel of Alumni Hall. 
Saturday afternoon the entire Class and also the Club Fifty were guests of the Reunion chair­man at a bufl'et luncheon at the beautiful Voll country home adjoining the Campus. It was very generous of Bemie and we all enjoyed and appre­ciated it. 
JOHN RILEY recited "Some Little Bug Is Going to Find You Some Day" for the 52nd time. Yes, that's right, once with the Glee Club in 1916 and 1917 and every year thereafter. This classic has become a permanent part of our Re­union program and the next time you hear it may be in the lobby of the Morris Inn. 
Coach Paiseghian was also present on this de­lightful occasion and told us not to worry and not to bet too much, so you "take your choice, etc." 
A big UND for those who came back and regrets for those who could not make it and missed a wonderful weekend. From now on, it's every year, "as the da>*s get shorter." 
DANNY HILGARTNER '17 7172 HORSESHOE DR. HARBERT, MICH. 49115 

TWO 50-YEAR CLUB MEMBERS had sons in the 1967 graduating class. Left to right are Sherwood Dixon, his son Pat, John E. Cassidy Sr. and his son Douglas. The Dixons ore from Dixon, 111. and the Cassidy men hail from 
Peoria, III. 
you? DANNY HILGARTNER looked great as 
did that track man LEO VOGEL. MIKE "DOC" 
NIGRO was making like a press photographer 
with his many cameras. J. U. RILEY is still 
the Duke. 
A "hello" with ANT>REW HUBER and PAUL ^lEIFELD and teammate distance man ED J. AIcOSKER was enjoyed. All these guys are seniora of the Class of 1917. I also met Rev. ARGUS­TINO JONES — you don't know him, but he is the son of one you all know or heard of: "DEKE" JONES *15. Then there was a hello to Judge "ROD" KILEY. You remember he played foot­ball. With him ^^•as his buddy CHET WLXD. Then there were real old-timers FREDDIE STEERS and "RED" MILLER. 
Personally I don't consider either SHERWOOD DIXON or JAMES L. SWEENEY as my seniors 
— got 'em as *18ers. They were both on Cam­pus looking great. I hope they come back next June and repeat the good time they enjoyed. 
DANNY HILGARTNER writes JOHN URBAN RILEY is returning from a trip abroad for our 50th Reunion. He has been in France mostly but also in Eire where BILL GRADY, another *17er, was also in Dublin on St. Pat's Day. How about that? Quoting C. G. "CHUBBY" COR­CORAN, "Back home again after a most enjoy­able Reunion weekend with so many of my good classmates and friends at ND." 
For your information: Editor JAMES E. ARM­STRONG '25 has retired and a just and great send-off was given Jim and his family at the Alumni Dinner. Toastmaster was ROBERT CA­HILL '34 — you know him as ticket mgr. He missed his calling. Bob proved a **knock-out" and he had our table in tears of laughter tlie entire evening. His telling of his visit to Rome was great. 
Back to the 'ISers. Doc "WHITEY" WHALEN is returning to campus this June. NEIL J. WHALEN AID was awarded a certificate of ser­vice upon retirement. For 39 years he Was Asst. Medical Dir. at Psychological Clinic, Detroit. 
Let me hear from you — use the yellow card on page 30. 
&Iay you live to be 100, ever enjoying good health. PEACE. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 

THEODORE C. RADENLUCER will also be missed. Henry died Feb. 2. Please with great enjoyment a dinner at N 0 iMnoffiiis PERU FOUNDRY CO. remember them both in your prayers. another able ND man, JIM ARMSTRONG. A 
PERU, IND. 46900 I talked with EDWARD KRAMER who is re­purse was given to Jim for a trip to see his Km 

1919 

tired and living a life of leisure in a very nice in Ghana, Africa, along viith a very fine auto­
JAMES H. RYAN 2470 EAST AVE., APT. 314 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14610 
1920 

During the March-April report, JOHN BALFE sent a very fine report on membcn tfiat he met on his trip West. In the meantime, I am very sorr>* to get tlic report of the death of LEO B. WARD- As you know John Balfc has been the most active man of our times in NYC with his reporting and keeping in close contact with ND. Leo Ward did the same in Los Angeles. And, for years, he might have been called a repre­sentative of N D in California. He was untiring in his efforts on behalf of ND and men from around our time will miss him and arc saddened because of his death. HENRY McCULLOUGH 
DAN W. DUFFY 1030 NATL. CITY E. 6th BLDG. CLEVELAND, OHIO 44114 
1921 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 LANDLXG RD. N. ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14625 
1922 

Once again, wc extend our grateful appreciation to evcr>'one who contributed even in the smallest measure to the success of our 45th Anniversary Reunion gathering. Of course, the real stand­out ser\*icc rendered by any individual \vus that of the Reunion director —J . FR/\NK "RANGY" 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 RIVERSIDE DR., APT. A SOUTH BEND, IND. 46616 

"June 7 and 8 in '68 — Don*t Hesitate." With this slogan Class Prcs. FRANCIS WALLACE started off plans for the 45th Reunion of the Class of 1923 at a meeting in a corner of the Morris Inn Lobby during the Reunion weekend last June. Attending were TOM PLOUFF, "CORNIE" PFEIFFER, ED SHEA, DICK NASH, PAUL CASTNER and m>-sclf. Profiting by mistakes of other years, the committee de­cided to elect Class officers before our Reunion in the hope of avoiding a befuddled business ses­sion at an otllC^^visc convivial evening. Opinion was unantinotis that the Friday night dinner, which in 1958 and 1963 had been at the South Bend 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. LAFAYETTE BLVD. SOUTH BEND, IND. 46601 
1924 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 BROOKDALE RD. TOLEDO, OHIO 43606 
192S 
J. N. GELSON GELSON & LOWELL, INC. 200 E. 42nd ST. 
1926 

NEW YORK. N.Y. 10017 I received a card from DANIEL J. O'NEIL '25 which reads as follows: "The lad I went to Notre Dame with from New London died in Grand Rapids early this summer. This was HAROLD 
J. "HAP" KILEY, possibly not known to you since he was a hard-working engineer. He stayed in New London after our freshman year to earn money to return and so had the misfortune to 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. RIVER ST. AURORA. ILL. 60504 
1927 

In the last issue of the ALUMNUS it was stated that probably the most enduring achievement of our latest reunion \\as the establishment of a Mass fund. I pointed out that those in attendance contributed an extra sum to use for this purpose. A bank account has now been opened. A Mass will be said every month for all deceased mem­bers of the Class. A special Mass will be said upon the death of a classmate. A few da>-5 ago we all received a list of deceased members. I know we were all disma>*ed to be confronted with the fact that 113 classmates have left this cartli since their enrollment at ND. The list should home outside Rochester. JIM DOWER in Buf­
falo is working day and night on income tax 
problems for a special class of accountants. He is 
as busy as he was 20 years ago. So you see, many 
of our Class refuse to slow up. 

PAUL COXAGHAN, a most delightful and 
close follower of our Class activities along with 
many others among us, is planning his annual 
trip to England. He will travel on the last trip 
for the Queen Mary Sept. 22. Perhaps our de­
pendable JOHN BALFE would enjoy seeing Jim 
oft on the eventful last voj-age of a ship that 
lived through the events of our time. He told 
me that Rev. TOM TOBIN is spending six 
montlis in Rome. 

AL RYAN retired from the vigors of the fast 
pace of manufacturing life in Detroit and is kept 
occupied with his own investments. He attended 
MILES, who performed admirably from start to finish — ably supported by the strongest and most ]o>'aI group of South Benders any N D class ever had, in our opinion. Too much praise cannot be showered upon Rangy, HAROLD WEBER, FRED DRESSEL, PAT MA.\IO.\, PAUL SCHWERT­LEY, PAUL VER.\E PADEN, SARGE O^VENS and the others. Every man who attended the affair made a fine contribution. We give special thanks to all who ^xT0tc many letters and cards to classmates urging them to attend and to bring other classmates. And again our sincere sympathy to all who could not make the trip to the Campus due to illness or any other good reason. 
Country Club, should again be scheduled there. This was promptly accomplished by reserving the club's facilities for that evening. 
Obituaries continue to be the most important news of our Class. Because it has been my prac­tice to mail a periodic newsletter to classmates as well as to compose news items for this column, I get confused at times as to which deaths have been reported in each of my two media. At the risk of repeating myself I list the following recent dcatlis: FORREST "FOD" COTTON March 6, CYRIL F. O'TOOLE March 29, Rev. JOHN J. REDDINGTOX CSC April 19, JOHN DESMOND ifay 12 and VLXCEN"T SWEEXEY May 20. Some of these names arc not listed on the Alumni Association's roster of 1923 because of the \-agarics of graduation, drop-outs, etc., but they all were 
graduate in your Class." 

PETER M. LA CAVA was the successful Democrat candidate for judge in the Mishawaka primary. Rev. BERNARD J. COUGHLIN, as­sistant prof, of math, and a director of the athletic dcpt. at the Col. of St. Thomas, has been transferred to St. Bridgit's, Minneapolis. WALTER C. HOUGHTON was honored at a Calvert Distillers reception on lus 25th anniver­sary with the company. 
I received the follouing letter, dated June 8, from RUDY GOEPFRICH: "On Monday, on our way to Iowa City, we stopped at Davenport and called ROGER NOLAN on the phone. Rog promised to drive to Iowa City Thursday and go to dinner with X^clli and me. He did and steered us to the 'Dugout' in the Amana Colony where we had some real good German food. This 
serve as a reminder that, as time passes, one after another must be added to the roll. Con­tributions towards the Mass fund will be Welcome. Undoubtedly, many of those who were unable to attend the Reunion will %%'ant to share in the \*arious memorial Masses. 
Our next official Reunion is still almost five years a«ay, but many arc already looking for­^rard to it- PAT COHEN dropped me a line to urge everybody to keep going for 45 in 1972. I am sure c%'crybody feels the same ^xay. 
Three classmates who had planned to attend the Reunion, unfortunately, wi*re not able to come because of illness. These were JOE MURPHY, JIM QUINN and GEORGE GOR­DON. Consequently, they missed the oppor­tunity of wearing the distinctive stra^v (?) hats. 
mobile. May be enjoy both. 

FRANCIS CLOHESSEY has retired from the 
Tioga Co. Judgesliip and is interested mostly in 
his daughter — now a lawyer in Foxboro, Mass. 
He plans to travel and would like to hear from 
CLIFFORD O'SULLIVAN. 

I regret to say that our chemistry-trained mer­
chant prince of St. Joseph, \fich., EUGENE 
On*OOLE Sr., has sold his business because of 
his health. He suffers from P^ldnson's disease. 
His charming wife tells me he requires much 
care and is now temporarily in a hospital. 
We have many, many changes of adilresses 
among migrations to Florida. I will send to all 
members these changes. Everyone I have spoken 
to is looking forward to our next Reunion in 
1970. Use the yellow card on page 30 to let 
me know your latest doings. 
June 17 the FRANK BLOEMERs of Aripeka, 
Fla. were in their old home city of Louisville 
and attended a surprise 40th wedding anniver­
sary party given in their honor by relatives and 
close friends. We do extend hearty congratula­
tions and best wishes to Marie and Frank. 
Please do not forget to make use of the yellow 
card inserted on page 30 of this ND ALUMNUS, 
It only takes a few moments to scribble a note 
thereon — to inform your classmates **what*s 
what" about yourself and other classmates. Of 
course, we must never forget our Klass fund direc­
tor. Dr. MATT WEIS, who is rendering a grand 
ser\^ce in remembering our beloved deceased. 
properly Class members had they been graduated with us as planned. Wc will miss Father RED­DINGTOX and JOHN DESMOND, who graced our 1963 Reunion. 
J. DANIEL CULHANE of Chevy Chase, Md. is deputy director of a new Job Corps ftmdcd program called Joint Action in Community Scr­\ice (JACS), the function of which is to assist Job Corps trainees when they return to their home communities. 
Dr. D-\NIEL PATRICK NOLAN received an honorary doctor of science degree at the June Commencement at St. Vincent College. After. 30 years as chairman of the chemistry department at the college, Dan redred this year. 
Use the yellow card on page 30 to send me more news. 
place is run by Bill Zuber who was a pitcher in 
the major league for about 10 years. Bill pitched 
for the Yankees, Indians, Red Sox and Senators. 
We caused some conversadon when we admitted 
being White Sox fans. 
"Roger looks fine, is semi-retired and plays a lot of golf. He looks fit as a fiddle. He has several married children and 15 grandchildren. One of his boys is being assigned to Ft. Knox, Ky. Rog expects to visit him soon and hopes to look up CHARLIE MARGUET in New Albany. He also expects to take in a couple of football games in South Bend this fall. 
"I u-os a little apprehensive about the ND No. 1 license plate on the front of the car. We spent several days on the campus of Iowa U. However, our apprehension was unwarranted." 
Use the yellow card on page 30 of this issue to send me more news. 
This misfortune was partially rectified by the delivery of one hat to GEORGE GORDON in St. Joseph Hosp. in South Bend and by the de­livery of JOE MURPHY'S hat to his son. It looks as if Jim vnil have to wait until 1972 for his. 
The comment in an earlier issue about class­mates carrying on the ND tradition in their families drew a reply from WILLIS F. FRY, a son of PAUL J. FRY of Dixon, a classmate of ours who died in 1962. Willis calls attention to the fact tfiat in addition to his father, Willis himself was graduated in 1963, and his brother, PAUL JR., was graduated in 1953. Paul has five sons, and Willis has two; and both fathers hope that all will eventually be ND Alumni. This Is another example of the tremendous loyalty 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

GETTING THE TRAINS BACK ON THE TRACK 
A UNIVERSITY of Notre Dame " Alumnus who has played a John W. SeaitoH '25 major role in the resurgence of the railroad industry is John VV. Scal­lan '25. He is president of the Pullman-Standard Division of Pull­man Inc., world's largest builder of rail equipment, and his company's introduction of new equipment is bringing much lost traffic back to the rails. 
Scallan is also president of the Trailmobile Division of Pullman Inc., the second largest builder of truck-trailers and containers in the country. 
Although the name Pullman is associated with deluxe sleeping car service, The Pullman Co. no longer is operated by Pullman Inc. A 1947 Federal court order required separation of sleeping car opera­tions and the manufacture of rail­that Pullman-Standard today is road cars so Pullman sold the the world's largest buider of rail­operating company to a group of road freight equipment. As such railroads. the company has been a leader in 
Today Pullman-Standard main­new freight car technology — de­tains a passenger car shop in Chi­signing and building the first tri­cago on the site of the Pullman deck auto carriers, capable of Palace Car Co. which was founded carrying 15 compact or 12 regular­100 years ago this year, but no size automobiles; giant covered sleeping cars have been built by hopper cars for hauling bulk prod­the company since 1956. This ucts; the first LO-DEK flatcar, facility builds rapid-transit equip­11 inches lower than existing ment and commuter cars and is equipment, which opened up pig­just now completing two 160-mile-gyback service in the eastern part an-hour turbine-driven trains for of the nation where overhead United Aircraft Corp. These rev­clearances are a problem; and 60­olutionary new trains will be oper­foot and 86-foot boxcars for the ated in the northeast corridor of transportation of automobile parts. the United States. Pullman-Standard operates the Not generally kno\vn is the fact largest research and development 
which N D inspires in all her sons. iS usually knee-deep in labor relations and I'm 
Congratulations are due JOHN E. HARWOOD. sorry he did not make the Reunion dnce 1 think He has recently been presented an award for his Be and PAT COHEN might have been a great architectural design of the U. of Tennessee Space combination. JACK GRUNING practices law in Institute Bldg. in Tullahoma. partnership with his wife in Brooklyn. As those 
Our new president, DAN CUNNINGHAM, of us who were at the Reunion know. Jack has has sent me a newsy letter, which includes in­stood the wear and tear of 40 years pretty well teresting bits of information concerning members — so 1 can only guess his wife has great patience. from the NY-NJ area. Til let his letter take JIM\fy JONES is retired and lives in Lynbrook, over from here: NY. FRANK iL«TERSON practices law with 
the Traffic Executive Association, Eastern RR iliv.,' 
CHUCK BERETZ is sales manager for Royal here in New York and lives in Elizabeth, NJ. 
Motors Inc. in White Plains, NY. X am sure If anyone at the Reunion happened to see he will be glad to sell anyone a Cadillac — even FRANK and PAT CANN'Y in a huddle, you can on time. "TED" BERKERY retired some years be sure they were trying to raise rail fares. MARK ago as vp of Emigrant Saxings Bank — in charge NEVILS is the public relations "pubah" for the of the legal division — here in New York. He Boeing Co. and lives right around the comer now lives in Hampton Bays, Long Island and is from me, here in Forest Hills. The natural result Judge, Court of Special Sessions, Town of Hemp­of living around the comer from each other is stead. JOHN BRENNAN is dir., technical co­that we never sec each other. 
ordination-international operations for American Standard, and lives in Westiield, NJ. 
JOE NULTY is asst. chief probation ofiScer at the Union County Court House in Elizabeth, NJ. 
JIM BROWN is treasurer of South American Those of us who have seen Joe lately know he Jklinerals Merchandise Corp. in New York City can no longer run after probation violators, %ritich and lives in Kaionah, N'Y. BILL DEGNEN probably explains why he is assistant chief rather is with the M. W. Kellogg Co. in New York than chief. JOHNNTf NYIKOS b Newark zone and lives in Westficld, NJ. Bill travels extensively mgr. for Chevrolet but redeems himself by linng and anyone who is interested in hearing quite in White Plains, NY, hoivever. JIM O'CONNOR a story should ask him about the longest pro­is with US Customs at the Custom House here posal on record — at least in distance. 
in New York and is in charge of appraising of 

AL DUFFY is an asst. corp. counsel for the chemicals imported through the port of New City of New York and lives in Brooklj-n. GERRY York. Jim lives in Brooklyn. FROELICH is with Curtis Wright in Wood-_ JOHN PETRONE lives and practices medicine bridge, NJ and lives in Rutherford, NJ. Gerry In Suffem, NY. 1 talked to John in May and 
laboratories in the railway supply business and recently opened a Technical Center in Hammond. 

Scallan has played a major role in the establishment of Pullman-Standard as a leader in the rail­road industry. Starting with The Pullman Co. in 1926, he moved into Pullman Car & Manufactur­ing Co. as a sales agent in 1928. Successively, he was sales manager of the western division; assistant to the vice president, sales; vice president in charge of sales in the Midwest; vice president and gen­eral manager, and in May, 1958, became president of Pullman-Stan­dard. He assumed the dual role as president of Trailmobile in Jan­uary, 1965. 
A native of Cincinnati, Scallan resides in Winnetka, 111. He is married to the former Margaret Cavanaugh and they have three children. 
Scallan also is chairman of an­other Pullman Inc. division — Transport Leasing Co., which leases equipment made by Pull­man-Standard. He is a director of Pullman Inc., Pullman Bank & Trust Co. and Interlake Steel Corp. 
Scallan has been associated with the Pullman group of companies since 1926. Before that he spent a year as a reporter with the Chi­cago Herald & Examiner, follow­ing up the journalistic interests he had as editor of The Dome and Scholastic magazine at Notre Dame. 
at that time he expected to be at the Reunion. However, I suppose like most doctors, John had a patient he could not leave. JIM QUINN is in the bookbinding business in Rahu'ay, NJ. I un­derstand Jim hasn't been too well lately, which explains his absence from the Reunion. WALTER "RED" SMITH keeps traveling around the coun­try, as you know by the dateline of his column. Red's wife, Kay, died last winter and he has been even harder to catch up with than he used to be. I have talked to him on the phone but haven't seen him lately. 
Secretary's final note: Use the yellow card on page 30 in this issue to send me news. I'll need lots of it to match all the items from Dan tliis time! 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 6415 N. SHERIDAN RD., APT. 1007 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60626 

1S2$ 
VINCE WALSH advised me of the death of ED KEENAN June 8 in Clinton, HI., where he \\-as a superintendent at the Revere Copper & Brass Co. plant. Ed was found dead in his car from a heart attack. He is survived by his wife. Vince represented the Class in a visit to the funeral parlor. You \wU recall that Ed returned with Vince for our 30-year Reunion. Ed received three batde stars and one invasion arrow in World War n. Rev. JIM McSHANE SJ. who will return to Honduras in November, wrote that he 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 
has started Masses for ED KEENAN. 
JOE DORAN gave me particulars on the death 
of BOB MOHLMAN April 7. Bob died unex­
pectedly following a heart attack in his home in 
Lafayette, Ind., where he had been in the jewelry 
business until he became an advertising salesman 
for radio station WCVL of Crawfordsville. Bob's 
wife died in 1964. He is survived by two sons 
and two daughters. JOE DORAN saw MIKE 
RICKS at the funeral home. 
Our treasurer, JOE LANGTON, arranged for 
Masses to be said at ND for Ed and Bob at the 
request of the Class. I always write to the family 
of a deceased classmate extending the sympathy 
of the Class and informing ihcm of the Afass 
being offered at the request of the Class. As of 
June 25 I have been ad^-iscd of the deaths of 
seven classmates in 1967. This is double the death 
rate we have experienced in recent years, 
JOE DORAN retired last year after 27 years 
\vith Sears. He and Fran have moved into their 
new home just four miles north of State Road 52 
By-Pass about five miles from Purdue U. campus 
at Lafayette, Ind. Write Joe at RR I, Lafayette, 
Ind. 47906 and stop in to sec him after the Pur­
due game. Joe's daughter Avho has two children 
lives in Whcaton, 111. 
DICK QUINLAN, who retired from the Rail­
way Retirement Board last year, bought an apart­
ment at 711 N.E. Harbour Terrace in Boca Raton, 
Fia. He and Holly expect to move there in Oc­
tober from Ft. Wayne. Dick saw BILL DAILY 
who lives in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
I enjoyed a get-together with BERN GARBER 
and Dorothy, JOHN ANTUS and Marge and ED 
QUINN and Helen folloiving commencement ex­
ercises at Notre Dame June 4. The sons of John 
and Bern, who were graduated, wierc also present. 
Bern reported that sons of VIC FISCHER, BILL 
PWYER, JOHN IGOE, TURK MEINERT and 
LARRY STAUDER 
ENGINEERING BLDG. 
NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
1S2I 
Some of you know that about equal numbers 
have suggested that our 1967 after-game get-to­
gether be scheduled for Oct. 14, Southern Cali­
fornia, as for Oct. 28, Michigan State. 
The keen competition for game tickets has 
induced us to schedule an immediately-after-game 
meeting place and party for BOTH games. We 
look for\%'ard to seeing a few newcomers, as well 
as those who have attended in the past. If you 
can enjoy the luxury of a leisurely \isit after both 
games, you are most welcome. If you have only 
time for a brief "look-in," your classmates will 
thank you for the pleasure of a visit with you, 
however hurried it must I>e. Details on the get­
togethers will be mailed after midsummer. 
JIM CURRY, GAYLORD HAAS, CLETE SCHNEIDER and your secretary shared the same Class of *27 table for the tribute to JIM ARM­STRONG banquet June 10. Your secretary agrees with those who freely expressed the conviction that as an expression of sincere gratitude it was the best program ever. 
Rev. BERNARD H. LANGE CSC was the only Holy Cross priest to observe the 50th anniver­sary of his ordination June 20. Father Lange, who holds degrees from ND and received his doctorate from St. Edward's U., Austin, Texas, taught biology, comparative anatomy and physical anthropology until 1935, when failing eyesight put an end to his teaching career. 
**After that he became interested in weight lift­ing" (to quote from a June 28 article in the South Bend Tribune) "not only for himself but for students who ^vished to participate. He or^ ganized and coached the ND weight-lifting team 
m 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL NOTRE DAME, IND. 46556 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 RIDGE AVE., AFT. 308 EVANSTON, ILL. 60201 
1931 
This issue of the ALUMNUS has an easy tear-out post card on page 30 for sending information to Class secretaries. Now that the summer is nearly over, I am hopeful that many of you will find the time and energy to for^vard interesting bits of news for the 1931 column. Please help to make the next issue one of the best we have had in some time. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
PAUL TOBIN were also graduated tlus Tear. 
GEORGE CRONGEYER attended, as his nephew 
was graduated. TURK MEINERT has three 
children in college. I was sony to hear of the 
illness of his wife. 
JOE LANGTON, our treasurer, reports that lie 
met BERNIE SCHUESSLER at a restaurant on 
the Illinois toll road. Bemie sees £D Mc-
SWEENEY and RAY MULUGAN at dwch 
every Sunday. Joe has heard £rom JOHN Mc-
SORLEY Jr., who is still engaged in the real 
estate business in Pittsburgh. John has five chil­
dren and hopes to make the Class cocktail party 
after the Michigan State game. 
JOHN ROBINSON reports that BILL O'NEILL is one of the trustees of The Robinson Schoi^ in W. Hartford, Conn., where John is headmaster, John has a daughter who is an Ursuline nun stationed in Oyster Bay, LI. John is a member of the Advisory Bd. of the School of Education at the U. of Hartford, State Ikfaster of the Fourth Degree and Pres. of the Capital Region Mental Heal th Assn., as well as trustee of the Conn. State Colleges. 
GEORGE SARGUS wrote from Wheeling, W. Va. in response to my letter of sympathy on the death of his brother Ed who had been a student of mine years ago at ND. George has a coronary condition and b recovering from two recent op* erations. He hopes to relax from his retail bu ^ ness when his son returns bom his army stint. JACK WORDEN, who is dean of men at St. Bona­vcnture College, visited George last summer. 
We are off to a fine start in planning for our 40th Reunion at Notre Dame June 7, 8 and 9, 1968. If you have not responded to the fine letter from our treasurer, JOE LANGTON, fc» funds for promoting the 40th-year Reunion, please write to him at once at 406 W. Madison St., Ottawa, m. 61350. Our president, BERN GAR­
during the six years of its existence, winning iit> 
temational reputation. In 1953 his squad won 
the national intercollegiate championship." 
I had hoped to read a factual account of lus 
legendary pre-1927 exploits as a weight-lifter, some 
of which must have been more accurate than the 
preceding quote which didn't even mention his 
occasional one-hand rocking of the occupied double-
decker beds of errant late sleepers in Sophomore 
Hall. His was the only alarm clock that got you 
up not only today but also tomorrow. In this 
age of protest. Father's cure was 30 years ahead 
of the disease. 
You will be interested in this bic^raphical in­formation on Father Lange, who now resides in the University Infirmary on the campus. **Bom Aug. 8, 1888 in Danzig, East Prussia, Germany, he came to the US with his family, settling in Oil City, Pa. He entered NDHS in 1904, and was graduated from the University in 1912. He entered the ND novitiate the following year, mak­ing his profession of vows in 1915." 
Much as we would like to have a column which does not include an obituary, we must report the auto accident June 21 which claimed the life of JAMES E. KE.-\TING, promment South Bend attorney. Jim and his wife, Rlarcella, were cast-bound on 1-94 freeway near Marshall, Mich, about 4:45 pm when the driver of a westbound car slanted across the median strip of the divided highway and slammed head-on into the Keating auto, glancing off and hitting a third car. Two persons were killed and three injured. Mrs. Keat­ing will be in the hospital for several months. 
Surviving besides his wife is a daughter, Mrs. Richard Quigley in Detroit, whom they were en route to vbit, and two sons, James E. Jr. who attended ND and Kevin C, both at home, 1308 
E. Wayne St., S. Bend. We add our prayers and 
Bro. NILUS GRDC, superior and director of St. Joseph's farm in South Bend was spotlighted in the April 21 issue of the South-West Review of the Brothers of Holy Cross. 
Word has been received of the passing of Elena Gall, wife of AL GALL of Bronx, NY. Mass for VINCE BUSCH, president of Busch and Schmitt Lithographers, Inc., was celebrated in Geneva, 111., June 16. He is survived by his widow, Marian, a son and four daughters. Our sympathy is ex­tended to their families and please remember them in your prayers. 
I met WALTER CAHILL recently and he re­ported on BILL LAHEY and BEN OAKES, pub­licity director for the San Frandsco soccer team. The team was playing in Chicago and he invited BER, reports that ED QUINN, Asst. Oean of Freshman Year Stwfies at ND will be in diarge of local - arrangements and BILL DWYER wiU serve as dunna n for publicity. We wtmld «PV^ date vohmtecis to he ^ oat in handling cifitorial work or asnstance on issuing a ^rectory and in making a survey of the Qass. We eipect to exceed an the past ' ^ Class records in pcomoting and carrying out another successful Reunion, 
Thanks to ED McKEOWN for hb excdOent 
letter to classmates mth fae^iful information on 
making a will. 
I was startled to see a fricture of oar Jemifd 
classmate, JACK CHEVIGNY, in the May 11 
issue of the Chicago Tribnnt which carried a let­
ter concerning the celebrities amoi^ combat per^ 
sonneL We were reminded that within one Boor 
of the initial assault on Iwo Jima in Work! War 
H, JACK CHEVIGNY, footbaU coach at Texas 
U., and a number of oUiers were killed by enemy 
fire. 
ART SCHEBERLE wrote rcgardxng the fine response he received from '28 men who jtnned in the novena for the recovery of his brother. Father John. Art is active in the Third Order. 
I am looking forward to seeing the usual large number of '28 men and their wives at our 12th annual Class of '28 cocktiul party after the Michi­gan State game Oct. 28. ED QUINN, who has done such a great job in the past in artai^i^ for the party, will give us a repeat performance. You will receive a card advising you of the exact place where we will meet. 
In the meantime, please complete the yellow card cndosed in this issue of page 30 letting me know you will attend the cocktui party Oct. 28 and the Reunion on June 7, 8, and 9, 1968. And send aloi^E some news about yourself and your family. If yoa are too busy to respond, may I can upon your wives to respond for you? 
sympathy to that of their many friemh. Jim recdved his AB in '29 and his LLB in '31. He was a former assistant US district attorney, a former chief St. Joseph County deputy prosecutor, and former president of the South Bend Optimists Club. Jim was a native of Conneaut, Ohio. He was married in the Log Chapel on the Campus Nov. 9, 1940. 
We had a recent note from FRANCIS MEYER, 
Hammond, Ind., who continues his-busy schedule 
as a pharmacist. Our loyal class photographer 
and friend is another who is having problems 
improving his draw for footbaU tickets. 
BILL RISER, formerly of Syracuse, now re­sides at 233 E. 70th St., Apt. 14U. NYC. 
EDWIN K. G.^lLNOR's address is I Easton Ave., White Bains, NY. ED BARCH now lives at 1443 Lee Rd., Ashtabula, Ohio. ProL PAUL 
C. BARTHOLOMEW is back at ND after a semester at Univernty Col., Dublin, Ireland. 
Resolve to use a few minutes of one of these summer days or evenings to send us some news on yourself and your family. Use the card in this issue to teU your classmates of your job, gradua­tions, weddings, grandchildren, vacation trips, visits with classmates, etc. We have nothing in the pipeline ahead of you. 
We have a few additional items from Rev. GEORGE L. DUM CSC, U. of Portland, who spent a year and a semester in old Brownson Hall Dormitory under Bro. Alphonsus CSC where his next sheet-waU neighbor was JOE BREIG, noted columnist. Father George sees Rev. JAMES MORTON CSC, dean of students at U of P, and foUows HOWARD PHALIN '28 and JIM SHOCK­NESSY '28 in the news. Father George has two explanations for his 33-year tenure at Portland: one, that Portland can't get along without him and, two, that no place else wants him. 
Bill to be his guest. Ben extends an inntaHon to *31ers to be his guests whenever San Frandsco is pla^ng in Chicago. I am sure this extends to other soccer team dties as weU. 
FLORENCE J. McCARTHY 6 RIVER RD. SCARSDALE, N.Y. 10583 
1112 
One day there may be a better or bigger or more successful Reunion, but it will be difficult. The outstanding memory mtist be 10 am Mass Sunday morning with our own Archbishop PAUL 
J. HALLINAN as celebrant. It was a moving experience. 
Nor ivUI any of the '32eis forget HERB GIOGIO (Locust Valley, NY) who showed one and all the 

GRADUATIONS are just as likely to turn into even larger reunions at fust about any commencement. The June graduation of Jim Monohan and Bob Sullivan, roommates in Sorin Hall, brought together their parents who also were class­mates in their college days. Jim Monohan '31 (standing) of Areola, III. and Robert "Spike" Sullivan '31 (seated) were roommates at the University while their brides-to-be (alongside each), Mary and Theresa, were classmates at St. Mary's of the Woods College in Terre Haute, Ind. 
color snapshots of Melissa, two years old, and 
Mary Grace, one. Were these his grandchildren? 
No, his OWN children. He and his lovely colleen, 
Rita, are very proud parents. 
Some of the Iiighlights: TEX SIMMONS flew 
np »ith JOH.N PIECHERT (both Dallas) but 
bad to take a commercial plane because Tex had 
one engine down. KELLY POWERS (Mt. Ver­
non, NY) brought along his wife "Shorty.*' 
im 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. GILLESPIE & O'CONNOR 342 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 
The whole Alumni family was pleased to read that 
©ur distinguished Alumni Sec. JIM ARMSTRONG 
was awarded an honorar>' degree at the June 
Commencement. Your officers extended Jim the 
good wishes of his devoted friends from the Class 
of 1933. At press time Jim will be in retirement 
•^and we all wish him well. 
ED OLCZAK, one of South Bcnd*s distinguished attorneys, lost a close race recently in the Demo­cratic nomination for City Judge. Try again. Ed. 
J. MARSHALL McAVENEY of River Edge, KJ sailed on the SS United States Aug. 8 for an extended assignment in Frankfort, Germany as US Dir. of Immigration. Marshall, his wife and three of his youngest children will be sharing his assignment abroad. We wish him well. 

CHARLEY CONLEY of Havcrstown. Pa., our 35th Reunion Chairman, has announced that CHARLES "CHUCK" HAFRON, who is now on the staff of the U. of San Francisco, will be Western Regional Reunion Chairman. Charley has a busy fall ahead. He will be working with Philadelphia friends on a trip to the ND-U. of Miami game 
^VILLIAM F. RYAN 
1620 E. WASHINGTON AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 

1S33 
Communications have been slightly more encour­aging. At least one of the "missing" *35ers at previous Reunions wTOte to correct the record. JACK BRAYMER reminded me that he attended in 1955 and 1960. He is with Phillips Petroleum Co. as he has been since graduation. We are expecting him at our 1970 Reunion. 
"Old Faithful" JIM JENNINGS also wrote. He reported that PHIL PURCELL got lost on his way from New Orleans to Salt Lake City and stopped at Roswell, Jim's home town, and they had a visit. Jim plans to go to both the Georgia Tech and Kfiami games, which is not surprising since he has been attending the out-of-town games for many years. 
"ARKY" FAIRHEAD called, inquiring about the plans for the Atlanta and Miami games, since he and his wife also plan to attend. Our presi­dent, PAUL FERGUS, just published a bulletin outlining the plans for those games. If you plan to attend, I suggest you make your arrangements, and it would be very helpful to drop a note to Paul, telling him of your intentions. 
TOM WELCH also wrote, inquiring about a possible '35 Reunion during the Southern Cal weekend. If any of you are planning to attend CLIFF PRODEHL, a 'lonei^' from Philadelphia, told us his wife, Margaret, is coming to ND to celebrate their 25th anniversary in the Log Chapel. New Jersey had TONY CONTI (Peterson), BILL BLIND (Englewood), SAL BONTEMPO (Floral Park) and others. IKE TERRY, our perennial prexy and ANDY McGUAN came do%i/1i from Baraboo, Wis. FRANK "CHRISTMAS CARD" MARLEY \»-as in from Fostoria, Ohio 
which will be played in Miami Friday, Nov. 24. 
FRANK "NORDY" HOFFMAN was recently 

named political action director of the United 
States Steelworkers of America. It is one of 
labor's key political spots. We were pleased to 
visit with LEO CUMMINGS of Seattle on his 
recent trip East. While in New York he spent 
some time visiting with BILL LYNCH in White 
Plains. 
PAUL RIGALI who lives in Glenview, III., is \ice-pFesident of Daprato Statuary Co., one of the prominent church furnishing firms in Chicago. EDWARD D. ROBERTS is with Flexsteel Indus­tries in Chicago and resides in Wifmette, III. 
WILLUM F. RUPP, who also lives in Wilmette, is an asst. vice-president of Allstate Insurance Co. in Skokie. AMBROSE E. RYAN, who ovms Car Pool Inc., now lives at 7834 S. Winchester, Chi­cago, 111. 
THOMAS W. SEXTON, active both in Chicago Rotary and the Edgcwater Golf Club, is Secretary of John Sexton & Co., wholesale grocers of Chi­cago. JAMES R. SLATTERY is vice-president of Deckert Corp. in Morton Grove, 111. 
LARRY SEXTON has scheduled the taking of colored action him of the 1968 IndianapoUs radng 
that game please also drop a note to our presi­dent. He and his much better half, Lenore, enter­tained a group after the Purdue game last year, and extend the same inWtation for the Southern Cal game. Their hacienda is located immediately north of the Stadium on Summers Drive, and Paul has offered to forego the game to personally prepare a barbecue! 
My brother, JOHN RY.AN, wrote to remind me that I know plenty about him to put a squib in the ALUMNUS. He is living in Cleveland and has been with a steel company for several years. He has three children, Jean, Gerry and 71m, and boasts three grandchildren, bom to Jean. Gerry just graduated from Georgetown, and Tim is in Pre-Law at Wisconsin. 
The Alumni Office informed tis of the death of FRANK MCLAUGHLIN of Phoenix in April. We extend Class condolences to Mrs. McLaughlin. Incidentally, in every column since your "interim" secretary took over the first of the year, we have announced the death of one of our classmates. Our ranks are gradually thinning. It is later thsui we think! 
Our treasurer, ED SMITH, has been encouraged recently by receipt of dues for our Class Reunion in 1970. Although the Class is not bankrupt, we will need at least three times our present bank account to entertain you at the Reunion in 1970 in the same style as at prior Reunions. Just as and, as usual, Ohio was strong w^th JOHN "BEAR HEAD" COLLINS, JIM COLLINS, ROBERT "PETE" STREB (Canton) who can get you into the IVo Football Hall of Fame. JOHN KIENER, LEO SVETE, etc. Former Ohioan COLEMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY now lives in Farmington, Mich. 
JOHN COX came up from Cape Coral, Fla. with his son, and DON RYAN announced his daughter Lori would make her final vou-s Aug. 15 in Philadelphia. She will be a medical mis­sionary. PAUL CLARK and son, Mark, and CORNEY HAYNS and son were there. 
FLO MCCARTHY flew to Chicago to ride down with his lifelong friend, FRAN OELERICH. Fian got up a Softball game with some St. Mary's girls visiting the Campus and put in CHUCK DOERR to save JACK GEDDES (both Chicago) from getting knocked out of the box, but the girls won 2-1. 
In golf, WILLIAM SMITH was the winner of the senior tourney with an 18-hole total of 84. SMOKY COYNE won the driving contest with BILL SMITH as runner-up. There is still life in the old boys yet. 
The funniest story teller of the weekend was FRANK NORTON (Vestal, NY). HU dialect stories are funnier than anything on television. And clean. Also from upstate New York was JOE DUNN (Snyder). GENE CONNELLY \^•3^ there as was his son, also attending his Clas Reunion. Not too many from Connecticut but FRANK MUNR.ANE arrived from Waterbury and up north, Minneapolis gave us jolly AlARTY DOLAN. 
LEN DONOGHUE (Merrill, Wis.) was late arriving due to the severe storms but he made it. Others from Illinois were FRANK ERNST, HANK GAJKOSKI, BOB GORMAN looking very fit, WALT KOLBY and others. 
dasac for viewing at our 35th Reunion. He wifl be entertaining PETE CONNELLY of Rochester the weekend of the race and they will both come up from Indianapolis for the Reunion. 
WILLARD HIGGINS of Rowayton, Conn., is one of the top advertising executives at the NY 
Daily News. 
GEORGE ROHR5, our former Class president, is in the process of converting a portion of his deep water oil terminal facilities, at Hastings-on­thc-Hudson, NY into an industrial waste center for industry in the Hudson Valley and Southern Connecticut. 
HENRY J. CLUVER is associated with the Whitney Blake Co. in Philadelphia and resides in suburban Broomall, Fa. ED ECKERT will be on Campus for all home games this fall. He would welcome suggestions for Reunion arrangements and plans to be at the Alumni Office on game Satur­days from 10:30 to 11:30 am. 
I'd like to hear from more of you \ia the yellow card on page 30. —JOHN HOYT, Sec. 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 523 W. HILLSDALE 
SAN MATEO, CAL. 9M03 

1134 
a reminder, the dues are 53 per year, or $15 for the five years between Reunions. 
A Class secretary in South Bend recently re­marlted to me, "how do you write so much in your column with so little classmate correspon­dence?" It isn't easy, fellows! Any volunteers for^ "interim" secretary? If not, how about pro­viding ammunition for the next column? Use the yellow card >-ou'Il find on page 30. 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 MECHANIC ST. ORANGE, N.J. 07050 

1S3S 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. BOX 275, LAKE LENAPE ANDOVER, N.J. 07821 

Further reports from the local Reunion committee state that we operated in the blue ink di\-ision for the month's operation in June. In addition, we will have a slight surplus to begin the 35th program. Again, letters come to us thanking the If>cal committee for all the fine arrangements and details that were so well taken care of—including the **cxtra trip" to the top of the Library and VIP room. 
JOE SANCULIUS enjoyed himself meeting up with old roomie JOE SCHILLING and taking BEN SCHERER to task. Joe would like to hear from TONY O'BOYLE. I found out that the 
AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
latter is one man not on Fr. JOE ENGLISHES 
mailinflT list from Chile. This I am sure is an 
oversight on Fr. Joe's part. Sanculius now lives 
at 4720 Orchard Manor Dr.. Bay City, Mich., a 
transferee from the Chicago district. 
EDDIE REARDON couldn't make it since he 
Was made **Sir Edward" in the Knights of the 
Holy Sepulchre, knighted in Chicago, and then 
a reception at Rockfaurst College the weekend of 
our affair. Eddie will have a fan problem come 
fall when his son Kerry enters the U. ol loua, 
after having a good sports career in KC annals. 
He further met GEORGE BONFIELD (c/o J. M. 
Keely Sales, Inc., 3802 NW 32nd Ave., Miami, 
Fla.) on a trip to the Florida coast. Bonficid 
was unlisted in our address book so write it down. 
George has 12 children and I am sure if he made 
the Reunion he would have won all the maihlcS 
ia every event. 
im 
BURNIE BAUER 1139 WESTERN AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46623 
Two happy surprises at school's ending this year 
happened when ERNIE KLING and TOM 
BOHEN stopped here, both for the first time in 
years. Ernie, who has been applying his elec­
trical engineering savvy for the past two years on 
the ApoUo project at Cape Kennedy, was ac­
companied by his wife Kay and high school son 
who, incidentally, has been setting records as a 
pitcher and hitter in bascbalh They have two 
daughters married and another at U. of Florida. 
They also dropped in for a quick visit with the 
"TIM" BRADLEYS (he is head of Lobund) 
who had been their neighbors years ago. Ernie 
says brother HERBIE KLING works for B. F. 
Goodrich in Canton, Ohio. Neither has made 
a Reunion so we're hoping the Brothers Kling 
show up next June for our SOth. That would 
insure it being a ring-a-ding-klingcr. 
TOM BOHEN and vdic Carmcia had just 
visited their son Mike in VISTA in Washington, 
DC and CHARLIE BOROWSKI, JIM LAHEY, 
BOB DUBOIS and wives came out to our house 
to relive the livelier days of our Campus life. For 
Tom, who teaches at St. Thomas in St. Paul, thb 
was only the second time back to ND where a 
plaque on one of the doors in the new Jibrary 
bears his name for a donation given by his uncle. 
There were a couple of more nice surprises (Indiana is the land of surprises says our tourism dcpt.) at the National Monogram club banquet in June. JOHN MURPHY was elected vice-president, even though he got the wrong date and didn't show. But LEN SKOGLUND, JOE ZWERS with handlebar mustache, CHUCK SWEENEY and TOM JORDAN did. They had lots of helpful hints for next year's Reunion. Area chairmen are going to be appointed to drtmi up attendance. Now*s the time for volunteers to volunteer — be-
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
233 W. CENTRAL AVE. 
LOMBARD. ILL. 60148 
1940 
In the last issue of the ALUSINUS I asked for news from anyone, but particularly from our Class regional vice-presidents. JIM METZLER wTotc to make arrangements for a meeting whea he would be in Chicago for his daughter's gradua­tion from Northwestern U. Unfortunately, we didn't make it, but I do expect more news from htm soon. Jim is \-icc-presidcnt of R. B. Jones & Sons, Inc., Kansas City, Mo. 
No doubt many of you will be coming to one of the football games this fall. Chicago is quite close to ND so please try to get in touch wth me at the ofGce, CH 3-1100, or at home, MA 7-4972, as I certainly would like to get together with you if possible. Furthermore, if you have any messages you want transmitted, I will be glad to serve as a clearing agency for you. 
As I look at our 1965 Reunion picture and recall all the pleasant conversations, I wonder why some of you couldn't drop me a short line. MYLES WALSH promised to help with the news, and it sure would be interesting to hear from JOHN JULUN, BOB FROST, JIM ROGERS, JOHN COURTNEY, WILLIS WALKER and all the others with whom I visited two years ago. 
The following mea have recently moved, but remain in the same general area of residence; GEORGE BECKER in Hampton Falls, NH; TOM O'REILLY in Falls Church, Va.; ART LAN­ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1947 OaOBER 
Rev. CHARLES R. CALLAHAN CSC h at Moreau Seminary. When visiting the campus yoa should drop over there to the Hilton Iml. Fr. Charles has all sorts of applications and once ^na see the setup you might make a late vocatum. 
Note from Alumni Office shows JOHN HEARN coming from California to Benton Harbor, JiCdi. at 90 Dillon, 1132 Hannanh Ct. Welcome back east. Jack. Since the firecracker episode, JOE ZWERS has had a change in address in Riverside, 
111. Neighbors must have caught up with Joe as the noisemaker of '37. 
This secretary likes a man of bis word, lUuneFr BOBBY SIEGFRIED, because via RR E:q>. came my two bottles of Old Cannon Cocker, the pride and joy product of the local distributor faom Tulsa, Okla. This fluid was the hit of the Reunion and if you didn't get to taste it and dean jour toanli, it was yoar own bait. AL SCHWARTZ and Bobby reaOy advertaed tl u pre­mium pradoct all hoins of the d*r n d nVtt. It only took one bottle to redo all the fanitor* in my home. Many thanks, Bobby. This ••trhri my salary that I get annoaby fron MKE BUAS in the FUlipiwMs, San Migd btew. 

BRIG. GEN. FRANCIS L. SAMPSON, depoty chief of cfaaphim of the Army, deCveied tbs baccalamcate sermon at Ripon College, and was awarded the hooorary doctor of tfvinity desree. Rev. Wm. M. SCHREINER CSC of the Oida'a Minon Band, celebrated his 2Sth year since his onfinatiao as a priest. 
Keep the letten comins imw as pnoised at Kennioo. EDDIE GANNON, as previomly re­ported, was one of the fint.. Will try to see soae of yoa at the games tlus taU. 
CLASS OF '37 BUDDIES posed again for the cameraman at their Reunion this year as they did in their graduation gowns 30 years ago. In 1937 they were (left to right) Paul Sheedy, Bernard Niezer, Parker Sullivan and Albert Schwartz. At Reunion they were (left to right) Sheedy, Niezer, Schwartz and 
Sullivan. 
fore they get drafted! 

We should have a good crowd at our IDth Reunion next June since few '38crs seem to be anchored permanently, judging from the moves. JOE MOSHER moved from Rochester to 14 Maple St., Auburn, NY. JOHN HURST from Chicago to 722 £ . Algonquin Rd., Des Flaines, 
111. Rev. JACK ANTON from Lombard to 4832 Main, Downers Grove, 10. Rev. VINCENT DE­LAVY, who celebrated his 25th anniversazy as a priest with a special Mass at his home parish at Roseville, Mich., has a new address. Holy Cross Misions, 1301 Harewood Rd., N.E., Washington. DC 20017. ROY KLECKA, who left South Bend a few years ago, moved from Phoenix to 1000 Bluebell Lane, Tempe, Ariz. JOE HENEBRY went east bom Park Ridge, HL to 1742 Dtydea Way, Crafton, Md. 
Keep those letters and yellow canb (Eke the one on page 30) 
mi 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 
1104 GREENWOOD OR. 
SOUTH BEND. IND. 46614 

JACK BERGIN, chairman of the SiWer Anniversary Bequest Program for the Class of 1942, in July presented Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND presi­dent, with a silver troy commemorating the Class's participation in the giving program. Looking on is Dean John Malone, local arrangements chairman for the Class's 25th Reunion. Eighteen percent of the Class, in reply to a moiled questionnaire, indicated that they already hod placed ND in their wills. Though Class members were not asked to specify the amount earmarked for ND, a conservative estimate of the value of the bequests is $36,000. 
BETTING ON THE STEEDS FOR GOOD 
CASTER in Eden, NY; JIM McSHANE in Nortlibiook, HI.; FRANK NADOLSKI in PU­cataway, NJ; ED HABECKER in Wasliington, III. 
This certainly is a very brief column — so why don't you Men o( '40 help stretch it out in 
COR A SAWBUCK James E. "Tom" ' Brock '42 cflFers more than $50 
•\vorth of entertainment throughout the year for two persons. He is general manager of Ak-Sar-Ben, a multimillion dollar — but non­profit — civic enterprise devoted to the good of Omaha, of Nebra­ska and the Midwest. 
With a briefcase bigger than some suitcases, Tom Brock tackles the job of directing all the activi­ties of Ak-Sar-Ben (that'sNebraska spelled backwards). Its physical plant covers 260 acres and includes a 9,000-seat coliseum, an 8,000­seat grandstand, a livestock build­ing which includes a show and sale ring; a 4-H building and many bams used during the annual thoroughbred racing meet. 
"Membership in Ak-Sar-Ben has always been a tremendous bar-
Tom Brock ^42 
gain," Brock points out. "We have improved the caliber of the shows and offered more for the money — while keeping the annual dues at $10, the same as they were when the organization was founded in 1895. Each membership admits t\vo persons to our shows. Each year a member receives three mem­ber shows, two family shows to which he may take all of his chil­dren, three concerts, a season pass to the races or a ticket to our annual coronation or ball. 
"In recent years these free sho^\'s for members have included such talent as Jack Benny, Jimmy Du­rante, Pat Boone, the King Family, Ray Bolger, Al Hirt, Pete Foun­tain, Patti Page and others. With this type of talent it isn't hard to see why the membership is rising and why in the past few years we have broken all attendance records at Ak-Sar-Ben," he says. This year the membership was up a whop­ping 7500 over 1966. 
"I am responsible to Ak-Sar­Ben's 16-man Board of Governors which sets the policies," Brock ex­plains. "Perhaps our main job is the handling of the more than one million people who use our facili­ties each year. We must keep these people and the nearly 50,000 members of Ak-Sar-Ben happy by seeing that they have good enter­tainment, good facilities and good hospitality." 
Ak-Sar-Ben's m^ i channel of financial support is legalized bet­ting on the thoroughbreds. The bet "take" and all other proceeds are used for the society's many pro­grams of agricultural, civic and educational endeavors. These in-
elude providing all the premiiun money for Nebraska's 93 county fairs and 500 scholarships. 
His contact with youths through the 4-H and FFA programs and the world's largest junior livestock show is one of the most enjoyable aspects of the job for Brodc. He came to Ak-Sar-Ben from Omaha University where he was head of the department of physical educa­tion for men and assistant football coach. 
"The reason I took this job was that it presented a wonderful op­portunity. In teaching I was an associate professor \vidi only one more step to go — that to a pro­fessorship." But he left the zing of coaching to take a giant step. "I know this will be my lifetime work," he says now. 
future issues? Use the yellow card on page 30 to let me know of your activities. 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN 
SPELLMAN & MADDEN 
342 MADISON AVE. 
1941 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 
P.O. BOX 8640A 
CHICAGO, ILL. 606SO 
1942 
Judge DANIEL J. McNAMARA was named head 
judge of Cook County Court. He will serve as 
head of Chicago election machinery as he appoints 
members of the board of election commissioners. 
BERNIE CRIMMINS' son Mile is headed for 
the US Naval Academy and hopes to quarterback 
there in a year or so. Mike was a star player at 
Central Catholic in Lafayette where Dad is on 
the Purdue staff. 
JIM O'NEAL asks that all of you who took 
pictures at the 25th Reunion make up a dupli* 
catc set identifying all the classmates on each 
photo and send them to J. J. O'Neal c/o D'Arcy 
Advertising Co., Inc., 430 Park Ave., NYC 10022. 
He trill not return them, but this will be the 
nucleus for a skit and photos at the 30th Reunion. 
Those whose attended know how interesting a 
presentation Jim gave on Friday night of the 
25th. You must have photographs to be able to 
put on this same kind of thing at the 30th. 
Use the card on page 30 to send me some ne\\3. 
JACK WIGGINS 5125 BRIGGS AVE. LA CRESCEXTA. CALIF. 91014 

1941 
DON KOTZ postcards that he is pleased with 
the changes at ND and hopes to check out the 
place next summer at the 25-ycar Reunion. I'd 

like to get more postcards — like the one on 
page 30. 
CHARLIE QUINLAX vmtcs from 33 Broad 
St., Boston (bis new address) that he has moved 
from New York to his new assignment as de~ 

velopmcDt officer for Brown U. in Providence, 
RI. Charlie, too, plans to attend the 25th. 
JIM FENNELL is dircc. for cliemicals. Esse 
Standard, Sckiyu, Japan. He has spent a year in 

Australia, three years in Malaya after 16 in the 
States with Esso. He has five sons. He sees PAT 
DONOVAN, also an Esioitc every few months, 
but has not seen LEO BL.ATZ in years. 
Judge WALLY ZIEMBA wrote for advance reservations for the 25th Reunion, and if BILL EARLY has anything to do with it, big Wally will probably wind up in Sorin sub. Wally's parents both passed away early this year — remem­ber them in your prayers. I know that many of the '43 Class knew them. 
DICK MURRAY MD recently returned from his fourth trip to Hong Kong where he spent time working at the IkfaryknoU Sisters Hosp. Dick was also awarded a community service award by the Youngstown, Ohio Chamber of Commerce. 
JIM McELROY writes to say "we did hold a Class of '43 golf outing at the Butterficid Country Club as planned. I think everyone who attended really enjoyed himself and it was unanimous that it calls for a repeat. We all o\«% a big thank-you to BOB SWEENEY, the Buttcrfield member who made the arrangements and signed all the tabs. Now his problem is to figure out who owes him what." 
JOSEPH A.NEUFELD 
BOX 853 
GREEN BAY. WIS. 54305 

1944 
To prepare a column less than a month since the immediately prcnous one went to press is far from an easy task. Yet, another deadline is fast approaching and must be met. There is no sense in breaking a rather cn\-iable record in ^ite of the scarcity of Class neu*s. There always has been a '44 column. It is up to you several hundred '44crs to see to it that there always will be one. So use the yellow card on page 30! 
A most welcomed letter was received from BILL HOOLEY, Glendora, Cal. He is a sales rep. for Brown Shoe Co. in California and Arizona. Bill has been a resident -of that area for the past five years and is very enthusiastic about living in that part of the country in spite of his missing fishing in Wisconsin and tlie Mid­west winters. The welcome mat is out for any vinting '44er. He particularly wonders the where­abouts of BILL WHITE and BILL KIER.\.AN. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 
Incidentally, the Hooleys are parents of two sons and one daughter. 
Another note came from Dr. EMMIT JEN­NINGS, Ros\%iclI, NM. The Jennings family con­sists of seven children. In May, Dr. Emmit was installed as president of the New Mexico Medical Society. He feels that, with the traveling the position requires, he should come in contact with some '44 ND men. 
VINCENT DUNCAN and his wife welcomed a daughter, Mary Stuart. She joins an older brother, AHnce Jr., who now is 17 months old. 
An invitation to the premiere showing of the new north shore store of the Vignola Furniture Co., 10000 Skokie Blvd., Skokie, lU., \v-as received recently from FRANK VIGNOLA. Unfortunately, it had to be regretted. It should be a must for anyone traveling or living in that area. The store 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 
P.O. BOX 5000 
BINGHAMPTON, N.Y. 13902 
1945 
I spent an enjoyable evening with our Class Pres. BILL KLEM and his charming wife during the Alumni Senate meeting in May. We spent the evening talking "old times** and about ideas to make our 25th in 1970 a real great Reunion. 
Since the Alumni Senate sessions were held in TOM BERGIN*s beautiful Continuing Education Center, I had the opportunity to meet with Tom and review his ambitious program. Tom is ideally suited for this work and is a great credit to the Class and the University. 
JOHN CARON has come East and is residing at 44 Meyer Place, Riverside, Conn. JOHN POWER is going from one Chicago suburb to another and is now at 937 Kent Avenue, Elm­hurst, III. 
HARRY WALTERS and Ann arc heading to as pictured is most impressive. 

The daughter of JOHN HICKEY and his wife made her debut in Boston in June and will be presented to Cardinal Gushing at a ball in De­cember. JOHN BUCZKOWSKI is scf ^ the Democratic nomination for dty jix^e in South Bend. 
JOE VAN DYKE, Kansas Gty, Ho., xcportcd that his daughter, Mary, was graduated from Loretto Heights Col. in June, and plans to be married this coming December. Joe*s son, Mike, recently completed hb freshman year at ND. Joe brought up a subject that has been mentioned from time to time by several other '44czs— namely a get-together of fellow classmates after one of the ND home games. It is a good sug­gestion, one very popular with many of the other Classes. Unfortunately, arrangements %nth the 
Europe for a vacation. I am late «nth this article and am on the way to Cape Cod for our vaca­tion—more next time. Be sure to fill out and send in the "yellow card** on page 30 in this Issue so we will have more news to report. 
PETER P. RICHISKI 
60 ROBIN PLACE 
OLD GREENWICH, CONN. 06870 

1946 
A paper on improved auto braking co-authored by THOMAS P. SCHREIBER was presented in Chicago at a national - meeting of the Society of Automotive Engineers. Tom has been a physicist at General Motors Research Lab., Warren, Mirh., since 1947. He has also published more tbaa a dozen technical papers. 
Neivs for the Class of '46 has been very thin of late so how about sitting down and dropping a few lines to let us know what's happened during the past 21 years? Use the card on page 30. 
Umvcrsity were not made eariy enoo^ for the 
'67 season. However, plans could be made for the 
following year. The meeting could be a pf^bn­
inaty to the '44c» big shrcr jolxlee Rennioa m 
June, 1969. Anyone wanting to volunteer to or­
ganise the eveat — just contact Cbnft prezy, 
GEORGE BARISCnXO, 444 Golf SiL, Dteal 
ftuk, NJ. 
Congiatulitions are in otdcr for Dr. JOHN CHRISTMAN who was featured in the Mky-June issue of the AuncinTS. He ii oae ol Ae few '44 ND men vdio has been to honored. 
GERALD WELCH, WinficU, BL recentir was made VP of Nixon-Baldwin Div. of Teaneco Chemicals, Inc. The eldest of Ins seven hof% aad three girb will be entering ND in September. Jerry wonders if BILL COONNELL still holds forth in Buffalo. 
MCK MILES 
lENTtEYLANE 
SOUTH BEND. DID. 4fitU 

1147 
THE SURVEY SCAM We received 217 leidies to our pre-Reni&m quea­tiomiaire and they yielded such interesting info I'd like to share some of it with you. We heard bcm 34 states, DC, Rome (JIM KELLY, first secretary in our embassy), and Tokyo (Fr. ROB­ERT M. DEITERS, SJ). 
Based on the sampling, the average man of '47 stands a flicker over S'lO" and wdgla 177 (that's 10 lbs. over the standard average wdght deueeJ by insurance tables). If he's married, he has 4.15625 chiMren. K s hair is in the twiCght zone between luxuriant and sparse. ' Among those who expressed a political prefer­ence, the count favored the GOP 98-55. £l our unofficial Residential preference primary, LBJ led with 35 but Nixon tallied 33. Following in order 
INSTILLING BOOZE ON THE ffilUOT 
THE PEOPLE of Tennessee can ' thank Kenneth B. Schoen '43. Because of his leadership, they now have — for the first time in 30 years — a chance to legalize liquor sales. 
Schoen was the chairman of the Tennessee State Alcoholic Bever­age Study Commission which spurred the state legislature to ac­tion this spring. The months of study by the commission resulted in a 698-page report and all but 100 of these pages were the re­sponsibility of Chairman Schoen. 
Among the basic premises re­vealed in the study are these: The drinker does not try to induce the nondrinker to drink, but the non­drinker is militant in trying to force his view on others. Man is going to satisfy his desire to drink whedier or not liquor is legal. Availability is not a cause of alco­holism; the alcoholic will drink anything — including hair tonic and paint thinner. As long as the chemical reaction of alcohol fer­mentation exists, man is going to drink. And, finally, prohibition was a failure, cannot be enforced and violates man's freedom of choice. Therefore, the commission recom­mended, the people should have the right to vote on the issue. 
Among Schoen's other achieve­ments are being one of the first 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
four Kjiights of St. Gregory in Tennessee, being a partner in a successful securities firm and being named president of Project Equal­ity for Tennessee. 
Regarding his being knighted, Schoen exclaimed, "Since there had never been a Knight of St. Gregory named before in Tennes­see, I was quite surprised and al­most unbelieving when the Bishop 
(Durick) called to tell me that Pope Paul VI had appointed me. 
The Order of K.S.G. is a Pon­tifical Order of Knighthood con­ferred by the Pope for service bene­fiting the Church and the Holy See — and it was a long history of service that led to the honor be­stowed in Nashville in October, 1966. Schoen has been a strong 
Ken Sehoem *43 

supporter of the Knights of Co­lumbus and has held tibe organiza­tion's highest state o£Bces. He was also the first president of the Dio­cesan Confraternity of Christian Doctrine and has given speeches to Catholic and Protestant groups throughout the South. He has been a member of numerous boards for civic and educational groufs and ^vas one of the founders of Samaritans Anonymous. 
Because he is a general partner of J. C. Bradford & Co., members of the New York Stock Exchange, Schoen was asked for some friendly advice on the market for fellow Alumni. He replied, "At srane point all of us need to sit down and analyze our financial past with the idea of deciding some definite plan for the future. First, each individual needs insurance; then, he should have some savings for emergency; and, if at all possible, he should own his own home. Only after this should he consider investing in securities." 
Schoen finds the investment-banking business "very rewarding both from the standpoint of ma­terialistic gain and the satisfaction that come from helping others build an estate. It is a great plea­sure to help someone of modest means to become wealthy," he said. 
» 
were Romney with 22, Reagan with 21, Percy with 13 and the New York Kennedy with eight. 
Of the 178 who responded to the Vietnam poser, 90 per cent are hawks: "Win it now," said 151. And of the 14 wlio indicated some solution other than proposed, 10 were for quicker action to%vard victory. Eight favored n^otiation; £ve, immediate ptdlout. 
Sample comments: "Go the hell after them!" "Continue as now with naval bombardment ofT­shore.** **We are brutalizing and butchering a nation." "Destroy North Vietnam." "Invade the North." "All out or pull out." "Gradually step up the pace *til we force the enemy to negotiate." •*Ccasc bombing and establish international inspec­tion to guarantee an honorable peace." **Knock Hanoi out of existence." "How can you use 'moral* means to 'win* an immoral war?" "Kick hell out of them. Unconditional surrender!*' •*Tum it over to the UN.** "Wipe them off the map; they are vermin!" "Use political, military, social, moral means to guarantee the independence of South Vietnam.** 
We haven't overlooked the 1967 football record guesses. There will be a prize, of middlin* but sentimental value, for him whose crystal ball pro­vided keenest foresight. 
MISSIVE cmKGS 
**The best laid plans never work," wrote DICK DEBUONO under 6/1 date. "Recently our school budget was defeated, first time in history. Every­thing here (Port Chester, NY) is in a turmoil. New voting must be held, and registration falls on June 10. As principal of King Street school, I have to worit at getting the people to register and vote (subtly, of course). . . . Please forgive me for not showing up. 1*1! sure be wt h you guys in spirit. Give my regards to all. .. . God bless you." 

An air mail bulleting from SAM ADELO advised us his new job with the law dcpt. of Latin American Gulf Oil Co- in Coral Gables prevented his return. 
Further adventures of the Hawteye in Hashna­bad: BROTHER IVAN DOLAN CSC is back in Pakistan and back at his old post as headmaster of Holy Cross HS in Bandura. "It is good to be back in school work again for a while, but I hope 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 ROLLING HILLS RD. CLIFTON, NJ . 07013 

Ii48 
We have an early deadline for this issue and not too much neu-s. I doubt if it would really make much difference anyway as it is summer and most everybody is off in some different direction. 
Had a yellow reply card from F. S. "ROBBIE" ROBINSON who is now residing in Ventura, California. Robbie writes that he has five sons ranging in age !rom 6 to 20 yeara with the oldest 
Frank L Unton '34, vice-president and comptroller of Allied Chemical Corp. in NYC, is serving as vice-president of the Financial Execu­tives Research Foundation. The Foundation is the research activity of Financial Executives Institute, a national organization of financial executives from all fields of busi­ness, industry and banking. 
Dr. George A. Cypher MS '48 and PhD '50 has joined Natvar Corp. in Woodbridge, NJ as vice-presi­dent and technical director. He has been elected to the board of directors of the corporation which manufactiures flexible electrical in­sulation. 
LINTON '34 aPHER MB 

' it is not for loo long as I do enjoy much more the construction line." Does that connote an edifice complex? 
Dr. JOE MURPHY, an internal medidne spe­cialist and father of 10 (ages 1 to 12) in Casper, Wyo., spent two months at Can Tho last year as part of the AMA*s Project Vict Nam and "gained much more than I gave.*' Cogent quotes: **Many Vietnamese die because they are too Ur gone to help when they come to the hospital. These people literally walk hand in hand with death. They accept it with great resignation. They live with illness and they've come to accept it as part of their lives." Describing "a cruel diqilay of indescribable terrorism on innocent inctims by the Viet Cong attempting to intimidate the people of this community not to vote in tomorrow's elec­tions," he concludes **I find incrcanng di£BcuIty in being sympathetic to those views critical of our national policy. I am sure this represents the firm consensus of those most directly involved in the war." 
From BOB KINNEY, recently named superin­tendent of agencies for Capitol Life of Denver, a subsidiary of South Bend's Associates Investment Co.: "We are licensed in 47 states and maint^un overseas agencies in Europe, the Far East and Puerto Rico. So you see, I am traveling quite a bit for the next two yeais, although home will still be South Bend." 
BILL McCORMICK apologizes from Cincy: "I'm really sorry that I had to miss this one— it's the first I've missed in these 20 active years. I guarantee you'll sec me at the 25th, though!" 
From Dr. M. W. WILCOX of Dallas: "For the first time ever, a brief history of what has happened to me: Received my doctorate from ND in 1961. Associate professor, U. of Arizona, 1961­
62. Prof., solid mechanics and mechanical engi­neering, SMU at present. Director, solid me­chanics center, SMU Inst, of Tech. Would like to hear from classmates!" 
And new Class Pres. BILL HASSETT vows " I w^Il do all in my power to make our 25th reunion the best in the history of Notre Dame. .. . I would like a list of the fellows who have attended our Reunions. I intend to start on the arrange­ments and plans immediately." 
boy being ia the Army and the others that are of college age are at Villanova. Robbie plans to be the chairman of the ND "SUMMA" Cam­paign for the Santa Barbara area along %vith his other regular work as zone sales mgr. for the Burroughs Corp. 
VINCE DOYLE is now sports and public rela­tions director for WPTZ-TV rn Plattsfaurgh, NV which covers the New York-Vermont-Caiiadian area. Vince had been living in Elkhart before this move. 
Dr. AARON P. SEAMSTER became asst. pro­
Congrats 
Richard C Scheldt '49, labor rela­tions director for Montgomery Ward, has been elected a vice-president by the board of directors of the department store chain. Scheldt joined Ward's as an at­torney in 1951. 
Rev. Thomas L Bill CSC '51 has been promoted to chairman of the faculty of philosophy at the Uni­versity of Portland. He has been assistant professor of philosophy at the University of Portland since 1962. His most recent published article appeared in the Portland Review and was titled "Meta­physics on Campus; The Fact and Its Evaluation." 
SCHEIDT '49 FR. Bia '51 
GLEANINGS 
BOB SHAW is the first layman in the Tulsa 

area to be appointed principal of one of the 
dty's premier parochial schools. TED DEM­
MERLE of New Canaan, Conn, has recently been 
named Manhattan sales rep. for Haggar Co. of 
Dallas ("the Notre Dame Haggars," he re­
minds us). 
TED WEBER stopped in to visit publicitor 

JIM MURPHY at ND on a recent swingthrough 
in the process of authoring a major article on 
education for McGraw-Hill. PETE SMALDONE 
is new assistant controller of Babcock & Wilcox 
Co. in NYC; he's in charge of the tax section. 
Lt. Col. JOHN CROWLEY USMC has been 

a%vardcd a Gold Star for "leading a night supply 
convoy into enemy-infested territory to deliver 
anununidon and personnel to the 4th battalion's 
forward artillery batteries** in Vietnam. Back 
stateside, he lives with his wife and five children 
at Norfolk naval base where he's a member of 
the Pacific fleet Marine force's operations plan­
ning board. 
Dr. GERRY HARRI^fAN is proL of finance 

and chairman of the bus. ad. div. at the South 
Bend campus of Indiana U. He moved his wife, 
three daughters, and son here from Cincinnati, 
where he had been teaching at Xavicr. 
Cmdr. JOE KOSNIK USN b back with his 

family in North Kingston, RI after a tour of 
duty aboard the USS Essex. 
And JERRY WAYNO has deserted Dearborn, 

Mich, for the balmier breezes of Clearwater, Fla. 
WRAPUP 

1.
 As space permits in future issues, we'll feed you pcrdnent data from the questionnaires on classmates. For instance, VERNON (MICKEY) McARDLE of Fort Wayne is the father of eight and the Class's only known grandfather. 

2.
 This edition contains the handy yellow reply cards on page 30. Please use them to give us a fast fill-in on your past, present and/or future. 

3.
 Football season approaches. Herewith do I renew my standing bid for any of you who return for home games to give me a halloo so we can get together and indulge in a Httle harmless camaraderie. 


vost for academic affairs at Memphis State U. 
In this position he will assist in the administra­
tion of the university's academic programs. He 
had been director of the educational programs 
at NASA in Washington since 1963. 
Chapbin WILLIAM P. McMULLEN has been promoted to colonel in the USAF. He is assigned to Richards-Gcbaur AFB in Missouri and is a member of the Air Defense Command. 
We have been advised by the Alumni Office that a Mass was offered on Campus for TOM HESSERT's father who passed away in June. 
Frank P. Doyle '52 is responsible for all matters pertaining to West-em Union personnel following his appointment as vice-president for employee relations. Doyle left his position as corporate director for industrial relations at American Standard Inc., a plumbing equip­ment manufacturer, to join West-em Union. He and his family live at 112 Lake Drive W., Wayne, NJ. 
J. Gerard Boehling Jr. '53 has been appointed vice-president of Cargill, Wilson & Acree Inc. of Atlanta, Charlotte and Richmond. He will remain in Richmond where his new resf)onsibilities will be coupled with his duties as account group manager for the advertising agency. 
DOYLE "52 BOEHLING '53 
Tom is located in Cherry Hill, NJ and heads She Hessert Construction Co. 
The Alumni Office is after me for the local ccmmitteemen for the 20th Reunion which is next June. We want someone from the South Bend area to look after things until we get there. We also need to locate a few area chairmen from various parts of the country to ride herd on the members of the Class of '48 so we can get a bigger herd together next June. So far there 
LEO L. WESLEY 
153 DRIFTWOOD LANE 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. 14617 

lS4i 
My apologies to one and all! I'm afraid I buckled beneath the tide of income tax season and some family graduations and by the time 1 took pause to check my watch, it was half-past JOHN THXnUN's deadline and I had "blown the bit!" And after my glowing promises of the dandy Report BOB CONNELLY placed in my hands! Let a chastened reporter begin again. 
As I mentioned a while back, Bob's letter to me rates as a classic in that he treats some 16 or 17 members of our Class. The letter is more like a roll-<all built around the activities attendant to that Southern Cal. blitz that closed the season. There's a great temptation here to merely copy his letter, but I'll try to rephrase without losing any of his wit and color. 
Sa>'s Bob—"My wife and I flew down (from Frisco) to Los Angeles for the ND-So. Cal. game and ran into many '49ers." JOHNNY FRAMP­TON, a Million Dollar Round Table member as is Bob himself, is currently living in Southern California and represents IVovidcnt Mutual Life in the insurance field. CARLTON "CULLY" GILBERT and JACK DOLAN '50 came over from Phoenix where the two of them have their own prospering construction business. 
More than a few men have asked me—where's KEVIN HARMGAN these days? Well, Bob re­ports that he saw Ke\an and his wife Fat at the game and beaming over their new baby. Kevin is pounding West Coast schaah on behalf of Ginn & Co. book publishers and doing very well. PETE LUSARDI and FRANK TRIPUCKA were there having flown in from New Jersey and says Bob, "both looked rich and happy." JACK McGON-IGLE came down from Walnut Creek, Calif, where he has started his own business—I don't know what it is but Jack is satisfied that all is going wcU. Jack's brother, JOE McGONIGLE, 
JOHN W. THORNTON 
4400 MONSERRATE ST. 
CORAL GABLES, FLA. 33146 

1950 
Had a visit to Rochester, &Iinn. while my Dad was in ifayo Clinic for 10 days. I would appre­ciate yoiu" prayers in that regard. While there I took a bus to Winona and went down along the Mississippi on the Silver Zephyr, through LaCrosse to my old Jesuit stamping grounds—Campion. My old roommate, Rev. TOM POWER SJ, returned from his missions in Korea to concelebrate ^vith his newly ordained brother. Bob. Up on the 
• Koska HaU wall are photos of JIM BONNER, RUSS SKALL, ED KELLY, JERRY SWEENEY, R.-v. TOM McNALLY (editor of The Catholic ^.Loy, among others). Had an announcement from DON BUSECK as to the revised law firm in Erie, Pa. of Quinn, Plate, Gent, Buseck and Leemhuis. Congrats. BOB MICHAUD, counsel for Bendix A\iation, in South Bend, is looking fine. 
By the time this goes to press you shoxild be planning a trip, such as Nov. 11 to the Pitt game, Nov. 18 to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game, Nov. 24 to the Miami game. Here in Miami we will be having a Thanksgiving evening rally and fiance at the Deauville Hotel on Miami Beach and I hope to see many of you there Nov. 23. 
A. J. NARKIEWICZ has moved from Colum­bus, Ohio to 831 Foxwood Circle, Geneva, lU., where he is the dectronics switching systems plan­ning engineer for the new Bell Telephone Labora­tory's office in NaperriUe, HI. JACK OWENS reports from Baltimore tiiat his fourth child, a third girl, was bom in February. He is with the Dept. of the Army, traveling from Maine to Kentucky through the school year with the NROTC colleges and universities. 
JIM GROVES, Bloomfield HUls, Klich., and wife Joan, have children Patti 11, Jim Jr. 10, Jane 8, Chris 6 and Mike 5. He is the pres. of Edgar Corp., Femdale, Mich., and manidactures 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
haven't been any volunteers so maybe we will have to nominate them. Let's face it, it is everyone's Reunion, not just mine, so let's have a Ettle help, especially if you are planning to come along yourself. If we could just get 10 guys to ask 10 others to come along, we would have more than we had in 1963 at our 15th Reunion. We have a pretty big Class and 10 per cent is a pretty poor return on anything nowadays, so let's start plan* ning on it. It's a real good weekend, lo pbn 
is also in California and has a restaurant on tlie other ade of San Francisco Bay. 
Bob continues his report to teO ns that BILL SHERMAN came down to LA on the morning of the game and picked up tiiiets outside the stadium. Bill has his own golf course consultants and golf real estate business in San Frandsco. Brother! Play and get paid! BOB SINGER and his wife attended the Friday nite rally. They live in the LA area. California also boasts of having PAT BLACKFORD in charge of production plan-m'ng for Ampex Corp. in Redwood City and BOB TARVER practidng law in Burlingame. Bob keeps a heavy hand in numerous dn c drives and committees and has been elected to the bd. of trustees of the College of San Mateo. 
Bob Connelly mentions further that he spotted CHARLIE CAIN'S picture in the paper recently announcing his promotion to vice-president of Koret of California—a large dothing manufac­turer in Frisco. Also crossed traits with LARRY HEUSER at a cocktail party. Larry works in Frisco but Bob doesn't have the spedfics. How 'bout it, Larry? 
The final memo from Bob tells of seeing EARL MEISENBACH in NYC last summervknows he works for an oil company, has five children and is used to New York style commuting. For the benefit of those Class members who get out West, BOB CONNELLY, who lives in San Mateo, bnt has his insurance office in Frisco, says he would delight in "showing the town" to any and aU comers! 
Can't let Bob write the entire column for m^ so here are some gleanings from recent cards: GENE At\GUlRE writes to tell of becoming pres­ident of Robinson Bros. Chemicals Inc. of Brook­lyn NY. Gene makes his home at 34 Stuyvesant Ave. in handsome Larchmont, NY. Someday I'm going to survey our group to see how many presidents we have. I'm sure the *49ers number-wise and pereentage-wise would compare most 
automotive stampings, moldings and assemblies. JOEL BULLARD is running for the at-large courj­dlman in the South Bend primaries for the GOP. FRANCIS R. QUINN has been appointed Circuit Judge. 
ED KELLY is residing at 10500 S. Tahnan on the Ridge Country Club Golf Course, Bcveriey Hills, with his lovely wife Barbara and their fine children. Since I had lost my photographs of some of our Navy days, Ed was able to bring back many good memories. 
He has the photograph of our cruises on the USS Boxer when Fr. Hesbutgh was our chaplain, and when we had some photographs taken with Pat O'Brien giving the "Rockne cheer" in HoDy­wood. He also has a photograph at Hickam Air Field in Oahu showing TOM FLYNN '35, Fr. Hesburgh, STEVE CALIENTE, DON BUSECK, JIM SWEENEY, myself, VIC CHACO, LOU LOURO, RON CAMPBELL, BERNIE WEI­GANDT, JIM CURRAN, ED KELLY, WOODY RICHARDS, DICK McGOLDRICK, PAT PLUNKETT, JIM \IAHER, JOHN FERRY, RUFUS RAUCH, ED WALSH, BILL BRADLEY and two of our beloved deceased members, KEN LISY and JACK DONAHUE. On other photo­graphs we were able to spot TOM CORCORAN, CHARLIE MOUCH, JIM BLACK, JIM CREAM­ER, JIM MILLER. AUGIE GENTILUCCI, JOHN RYAN, JACK COURTNEY, JIM BECKER. WALT MURPHY. PETE GROSS, BOB GAWNE and RON SJ\NFORD. 
ZANE TRINKLEY, classified ad manager for the South Bend Tribune for the last four years, has been promoted to local retail ad manager. GERALD B. WHITE has been appointed to an­other year .of membership on the American Imti­tute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Technical Committee on the aerodynamic decderation sys­tems. He is engineering facility manager at the Dept. of Defense Joint Parachute Test Facility in El Centra, Calif. For those of you who may be attending the llfiami-ND game on Nov, 24, now by potting away five ceaU a day far A* wcdttod eqiense and getting a car pool, etc, to­gether. And the big qiendeis .. . wdl, all they have to do is get the time. 
In tUs iane on page 30 there a n die coavem­ent reply cards. Let's hear from yon. Kidi usually ffie to dip coupons, etc, from niigaiiiwi and seod in for everything. Tell yoon to fiO ia the cud lor yoa il yoa haven't got the time, bat let's hear •omethiag. 
favorably with almost any C3as Or tchod. 
The Alumni Office sent me a change of addtoi for an old (watch it!) great roommate of mine in Badin Hall—WALTER HAASEK. Walt and Vrs (a genuuie St. Mary's doll!) and thdr family now reside at 12202 Maycheck Lane in Bowi^ Md. The memo to me also says "Add Majar." Obvioosiy, Walt, who got his BSUE with our Class and added an MA in '55 is still teachinc the Air Force how a Notre Damer does it aad they approve and continue him up the ladder. 
We imdentaad that TOM HEALY has beea named VP for sales for the western £v . of Emmons Jewelers Inc Also, LEONARD OFFER­MAN was recently honored by the South Bead Young Democrats of St. Joe Co. as "Democrat of the Year." He was dted for the service im rendoed the party during the list TOt as s state senator. 
I am delighted to sty that I have a bis i backlog of cards and notes—because I blew a couple columns, of course—but smce my spaca allotment for this issue is fast runrung out, let ma ten BROTHER NOLAN, BOB LEANDER, PETB KERNAN, GEORGE NICHOLS. JOHN KEN­NEDY, LEE MARA, DICK SmjLLES ant CHARLIE WATERS that I have thdr material lined up for our next session. 
For those who have no cards or pens or lime^ but would like to teU me personaflly of thdr advancements. Reunion plans, family adftioto^ trips, etc, we-^<3ass of '49—inU be havir« a bit of a insh in room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hal after the Michigan State game. listen for the 
P.A. announcement at half time! (That JOHM THURIN can walk on water!) m be there with my little notebook—and enjoying our vnrtoty toasts and boasts. Those who ivill be attending other games, teU me about them and friends yoa met. Those yellow cartb (Page 30) have limited space—purposely so—but they're all you and X need to keep the news pot cooking. See jam Oct. 28. Again—*hawt< much. 
the Buffalo Bills are also pla^g the Miami IM­phins in the Orange Bowl Sunday, Nov. 2 ^ at 4:30 pjn. 
Send some news to our secretary. Yoa cat use the handy form on page 30. —Sparky, Reaideat 
JAMES JENNINGS 
BORG-WAKNER CORP. 
200 S. MICHIGAN AVE. 

1S91 
CHICAGO, ILL. 60604 

Recdved a nice note from JOE LOTTA w!m married Jin Harris (Queen of Engineers' BaU ia 1951) shortly after graduation. They have sevea chiMten: Bitrida, 15; Joseph H, 12'/i; Michad. IV/i; Rosanne, 10!4; Mary, 9; James, 6; and Theresa, 3. Joe has been with the Space Systems Kv. of Hughes in Los Angdes for five years, re­siding at 1410 W. Sandison St. in Wihnington, CaL Apparently Joe is interested in the develop, ment of the Btmgy on other planets as he is senior mass properties engineer on communication satellites (for example, Syncom, Early Bird, Lani Bird, Canary Bird and ATS). Pral^ously Joe was with Boeing Aucraft in Seattle for 11 years^ mainly as we^ t control engineer fax the 707, 720 and 727 series aircraft. 
Spoke to BOB WESTRICK, whom yon may remember as one of our more able fencers. After seeing the miseries in his back on the damp days, I would caution any of my sons against taking up fencing. Bob married Muy Hoppenrath in 195S and at last count they had six additional de­pendents. They are: Mary Lu, 11; Cathy, 10; Jearme, 9; Bobby, 8; Billy, 5; and IKcky, 2. Bob lives in La Grange Kirk, III. at 748 N. Kensington and he is a partner in the law firm of O'Toole, Westrick and Harrison. Their firm just moved its offices to the new building at 33 N. Dear­born St. in Chicago. 
A postcard from JOE AUCREMANNE makes me think that the glass business beats this racket. Joe dropped a card from Dublin after he and 
&(arie had been through France, Belgium, Holland 
and England. Joe is checking the Irish football 
games to see what prospects he can bring back 
to Ara (although it seems there are pretty many 
good prospects coming up mthout any additional 
ones). 
Talked to HOBE TAYLOR who is planning an 
expedition to obsen.'e the Georgia Tech game. 
Hobc lives at 900 Arthur Dr. in Lombard, 111. 
He married Pat Walsh in 1957 and, as Pat is from 
Sa\annah, she should enjoy that trip this fall. 
They have five children: Lourdes, 9; Michelle, 8; 
Jacqueline, 6; Moira, 4: and Kieran, 1. Hobe is 
with 3-M in the Government Sales Div. at 332 
N, Michigan, Chicago. 
BEN DAMLANI tired of chasing electrons and 
has turned to building railroad cars for Union 
Tank Car Co. Ben is their chief development 
engineer and is located in their new building at 
111 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, III. He lives with 
his wife, the former Lois Anderson, and four 
children at 2931 Sunset, Flossmoor, III. Their 
children include John, 9; James, 8; Linda, 6; 
and Xancy, 5. 
In following up a change of address for HAR­
VEY 0*NEILL, we found the Alumni Office is 
one step behind him. Har\'cy has just been 
appointed worts manager of Gulf Oil's Chemicals 
Dept. in Vjcksburg, Miss- and is building a home 
there. Har\'ey and his ivifc, Nancy Ann, have 
four children: Jeffrey, 13; Robin, 10; Christopher, 
8; and Susan, 5. At present Harvey's mail can be 
sent in care of Gulf Oil in Vicksburg and when 
he has a home address ax-ailable wie will put it 
WILLIAM B. KING 
613 E. DONMOYER AVE. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46614 
1992 
CHARLES EDWARD SCHAEFFER has been 
awarded the profissional designation of Chartered 
Finandal .Anal>-st. FRANCIS J. CONNELL CSSR 
is in critical condition, according to a Reunion 
questionnaire — very weak, bad heart — request 
prayers. 
A book, Process-Control Systems: Application: Design: Adjustment^ has been published by Francis Shinsky. TOM KING is leaving coaching after 13 years at Clay HS, South Bend, to go into the babysitting business at Ft. Wa>"ne. Daughter Deb­bie, 13, protests: **unfair." 
.ROBERT J. POLACEK has been named gen. mgr. of UBS Chemical Co., div. of A. E. Staley Alfg. Co. ERNEST J. KNAPIK has been pro­moted to Chief Cost Accountant at C. P. Glare & Co. 
DAVID W. DUERR has been named mgr. of field real estate for the Hoover Co. JOHN J. POWERS is General Chairman of the 1967-68 United Fund campaign in South Bend. 
' T. R. "TOM" VEECH has been named to 3 
new position: mgr. of the central region of Stan-
screw Fasteners. He has made quite a name for 
m% W. F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 11006 JEAN RD. S.E. HUNTSVILLE, ALA. 35803 
Well, genUcmen of '53, the news is kinda thin this issue. You should find a yellow card Cpage 
30) in this issue. Why not stop reading right now and fill it in? I've said it before and I'll say it again: mighty tough to write these columns if I don't hear from all of you. We try to make it easy as possible for you to help us out; if writing is too tough call me at my ofiice: 205-837-4000 extension 3151 (not collect, though)! GET WITH IT! 
Received a card from ED SARNA (224 Camino Alto, Vallejo, Cal. 94590): "Would like to hear and see some of the ND boj-s of class of '53. I am teaching and coaching here in Vallejo. Have coaching assignment in \-arsity football and base­ball. My wife Joan and I have five sons 10, 8, 6, 4 and 3 years of age. My spare time is wth the Xfarine Rcscr\'cs with the rank of Major." 
The following is included so that any of you might help if you wish to: "Dear Mr. Stuhl­dreher. This is an SOS pleading for your financial help that God's people on Guam, too, may be trained and educated to live a life befitting God's people. They are generous and self-sacrificing but desperately need your assistance. You will help them to help themselves, won't you? near and dear to you. Sincerely yours in Notre Dame, Sister Mary Ardi\in, Directress of Aspirants, Notre Dame of Guam." The address: P.O. Box 1846, Agana, Guam 96910. 
JEROME "JERRY" C. CONNORS wTOte in: in the column. 
BILL BREIDENB.ACH has been living in Grif­
fith, Ind. for the last few years and is in the 
steel erecting business. However, by the time this 
column is printed he will probably be located in 
Phoenix, Ariz, and when we have an address for 
Bill we will put it in the column. He married 
Pat in 1961 and they have three cjiildren: Bar­
bara, 5; Phillip, 4; and Mark, 1. We vrish them 
the best of luck in their new location in Phoenix. 
Spoke to BUCK TRIPPE who resided in Fariey 
Hall vnth us one year before he departed to help 
his Dad open the Western Auto Store in Natchez. 
Buck and his wife, the former Carolyn Howell, 
live at 311 Melrose, Afontebello Parkway, Natchez, 
Ikflss. 39120. They were married 12 years ago 
and have three children: Stephen, 10; Christopher, 
7; and Diannc, 5. Buck would appreciate a visit 
iroxa any of his old classmates passing through 
the scenic southland. 
Congratulations to BILL HARTY who has just 
been named v-p for marketing of the Keebler 
Co., the large food company in Elmhurst, III. 
Bill married the former Pat McAllister in 1956 
and they now have four children mth one due 
in August. The four already here are Bill, 10; 
Michael, 9; Kathy, 6; and Kevin, 3. There are 
probably very few ball games, home and aw^y, 
that Bill has missed over the last 16 years. 
Our apologies to GUS FLICK who appeared under the alias "GUS CLICK" in the May-June issue. I really know how to spell your name, Gus, but some of the typewriters in South Bend may have forgotten in the last 16 years. 

hunsclf in golfing circles. ROBERT CROWE writes of his family's (five children) move from Houston to Charlotte, NC, lea\ang behind in Houston, PHIL EVERIST. He learned via a Christmas card that DAVE BUDINGER recently moved from Rockford, III. to New England. Phi! and Dave arc in the steel business, while Bob is involved with selling safety equipment. 
JAMES J. WALSH has returned to his home town of St. Louis after eight yean* absence. He IS with a local paper distributor in a sales capacity. 
In case you didn't know, JOHN R. MAHER has been named director-advertising and promo­tion for Continental Airlines, for the Los Angeles-based company. Prior to that, he was the super­visor on the agency's Texaco account. Maher is married and has three children. 
After 10 years in the pharmaceutical bunncss, DON KOTOSKE has decided to go into medicine, and has started his fourth year of medical school at the Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine and Surgery. He graduates in June of '68, fol­lowed by internship—completion, June of '69. He recentiy won the Scientific Afcdical Writing Award sponsored by Clarion Laboratories. He and his wife have five su*cct children ranging in age from 3 to 13. 
"Married, li\ing in St. Louis. Have one daughter, Kathy Ann. Working for McDonnell Co. as a senior buyer in International Procurement. Been in the St. Louis area for four years, monng here from Milwaukee, Wis." 
DICK WOLFGRAM has been awarded the pro­fessional designation of Chartered Financial An-al>-st; nice going, Dick. Used to spend some nice times up in Dick's family home in Skokie, HI. 
I \isited Indianapolis last week; saw brother Bill's new home and also CHUCK STIMMING's new one. 

"GUS" FREDA has been promoted to assoc prof, and named coordinator of engineering studies at the U. of Pittsburgh regional campus at Bradford. 
FR. CONAN PATRICK MULROONEY, O.Pracm., will be ordained to the priesthood in September. LOUIS CAVANAUGH has been pro­moted in the foreign consulate In Osaka, Japan. 
THOMAS P. MARTINO has been awarded a PhD in guidance, counseling and educational psy­chology by Catholic U. Dr. Martino is assistant director of the counseling center and astistant prof, of education at King's Col. 
EDWARD T. MCCARTHY, an assodate of the South Bend agency of the Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co., spoke at the company's regional conference in June. He has wt>n the National Quality Award for outstanding service to policyholders and has been a member of the company's IVesidcnt's Qub. 
The appointment of JOHN F. GELSON as group product mgr. for new products has been announced by Clairol hair color and toiletries div. 
A last reminder for the Reunion in the Ifa­
hogany Room in the Morris Inn after the Michi­
gan State game. From the number of our local 
cJassmates who have already had their Michigan 
State blanks rcttumed vnth the order unfilled, it 
aiqiears the Reunion might not be too well at­
tended. Next year we will try for another game 
for which tickets should be more readily available. 
The recent mention of JOE SHELLEY was 
noticed by Klargaret Shecrin in Indianapolis, an 
aunt of Jllhl SHEERIN who roomed with Joe 
for four years at South Bend. She decided Jim 
is too busy to write and undertook to fill us in on 
Ins whereabouts. In 1951 Jim married Marilyn 
Bohbitt of Kokomo and they now have six 
children. James Patrick is 14 and a freshnun at 
high school; John Bennett, 12; Aiary Margaret, 
10; Mary Elizabeth, 8; Mary Katherine, 5; and 
Joseph Xfichael, 3. Last October Jim, a CPA, 
became a partner in Ernst & Ernst. The Shecrins 
reside at 5333 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis. 
Many thanks to Aunt Afargaret for passing on the 
neu?. 

From lifcxico IG SOISSON dispatched a nice note to let us know he has been there for three years after seven years as a resident in India. Ig is still with Union Carbide and we con­gratulate him on his recent appointment as head of the Union Carbide activities in Mexico. He and Tina have two children, Kevin, 5, and Kim, 
1. They really enjoy Xfcxico and hope to get up to South Bend soon, perhaps some weekend this fall. 
Send me some news on the card on page 30. 

Word has been received of the ordination of DON KUNKEL, who celebrated his First Mass May 7 at St. Joseph's Church, Jasper, Ind. His contact address is Glcnmary Home Alissioners, 11293 Princeton Pike, Cincinnati. 
JOE CANOUS's wife Pat writes that Joe is a self-practicing attorney in Fort Lauderdale. They have three children, Joe, 3; Jack, 2; and Cath­erine, 3 months. Fat is from Da^ion, Ohio and she and Joe met in Ft. Lauderdale. They are looking forward to seeing **The Fighting Irish" beat Kliami this year. 
DONALD THOMAS MALONE received his law degree June 3 at the McGeoigc School of Law of the U. of the Pacific in Sacramento, Calif. He has been taking evening law courses while working as quality control dep. mgr. for the Aerojet General Corp. in Loomis. 
JOHNNY DEE is a new member of the Cath­olic League Coaches "Hall of Fame." 
LEONARD V. CAMPANALE is lucky —his secretary, &frs. Elmer Faller, was voted the Sec­retary of the Year by the St. Joseph County Legal Secretaries Assn. 
I'm hoping to hear about YOU! Use the yellow card on page 30 to let me know what you've been doing. 
Heard from a long-lost friend, JOHN FISH JR: "17 years have passed since we shuffled the cards for bridge in Lyons Hall. JERRY KELLY is a partner with Kenover, MacArthur & Co. stockbrokers in Detroit; he has eight children. Mary and I have five children; the youngest is 6. Will wonders never cease. This is my 12th year in the general practice of law. Really fascinating. JIM KLINK continues work with Price Water­house in Detroit. He has five children. How about a bridge game at the 15th reunion?" 
You're on. Fish, but why not go all out and have a duplicate tournament? I heard from JIM TURLEY last fall and I'm sure he could be persuaded to run one for us, just like the old days. He said we still had the honor of being the Class with the best bridge players. (Fish's address: 14940 Michigan, Dearborn, Mich. 48126) 
Also heard from another Wolverine, ART PULTE: "A little news from the Arthur T. Pultes. We haven't moved, but our city and a p code have; it's now Troy, Mich, 48084, instead of the former Birmingham. Spent a superb week in Bermuda with wife Beth in April. We have five children. Still working away at Pulte Construction Co., Inc., as pres. We see the ROBERT FISCHERS and GEORGE B. BAUILEY JRS, trath Class of '53, quite often for dinners, bridge games and general get-togethers. George has his own law practice. Hope to attend the N D home football games. Attended annual N D retreat Feb 10-12." 
Thanks for the news. Art. His address: 3279 
ALUMNUS SEi^EMBER 1967 OaOBER 

TIRING 
OF 
THE FLORIDA 
ROAD 
JUMBLE 
Mike O'Neal 'SO 
UiKE O'NEIL '50 thinks Florida's 
•" roads are at least 50 years be­hind-the-times and he's out to do something about it. The first Re­publican to be appointed to the Florida State Road Board in 95 years, he is responsible for its fourth district which stretches from Key West north to Fort Pierce and west to Naples on the Gulf. The nine-county area includes Miami and boasts one-third of the popula­tion and one-third of the vehicle registrations in the "Sunshine State." 
To get the road show going, Mike favors financing by both bond programs and toll roads. His greatest impact has been his prom­ise at the outset of his term that he will put roads where they are needed and not where political pressures would like to locate them. 
When announcing his four-year appointment to the board, Gov. Claude Kirk said O'Neil had "an in-depth knowledge and under­standing of road needs in the 4th District." 
Mike's business interests lie close to the roads, too. He's presi­dent of General Tire of Miami 

Wendover Rd., Troy, Mich. 48084. Fr. ROBERT FRANCIS OFM of Quincy (III.) Col., wrote in and infomied us that Fr. ROBERT 
F. DENTZMAN OFM (MS '53) and Fr. JOSEPH (JOB) WINDOLPH OFM (MS '53) are also there, both teaching mathematics. He also stated DAVE COSTIGAN is teaching American history and coaching baseball at Quincy. Dave and Mary have five boys. 
Received this note from JOHN B. CLARK, 7318 Lake St., Morton Gorve, 111. 60053: "I read ^ith considerable interest your commentary in the March issue of the ALUMNUS. It seems we continually do an injustice to our good friend, REGIS PHILBIN. Please note the 1953 Dome. Regis is listed under somebody else's name and vice versa. And even in the March edition of the ALUSINUS there is an improper date of gnid­lution under his picture. In any event, we 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 
which has gained a reputation for 
its premium safety tires. The com­
pany's newest item is the radial ply 
tire which most other companies 
are also coming out with. It is 
reputed to be much safer due to 
the way the plies are laid on. 
Other O'Neil ventures are head­ing General Petroleum Corp., be­ing secretary of Clawson Enter­prises and vice-president of the 5000 Building Corp. He is a direc­tor of the Boulevard National Bank, Peninsular Insurance Com­panies and Harrington & Co. 
He is on the Florida Council of 100 and the Conmiittee of 2rs Industrial Development Coimcil and is a trustee of Barry and Mary-mount colleges and chairman of the Barry Lay Advisory Board. He is also chairman of the Heart As­sociation of Greater Miami and a member of the Diocesan Catholic Charities Board. 
A loyal alumnus, he ivas on the liberal and fine arts advisory coun­cil from 1958 to 1964. Mike and his wife, the former Ellen Coakley, have eight children. They make their home on Bay Point, which overlooks the Miami skyline . . . and the busy network of roads. 
certainly wish him well as Joey Bishop's side kick on the new show during the late evening hours. I'm Htindering how we can help him." 
Here's a newsy letter from JOE RIDGE: '^Within the last few months as I have traveled around the country I have run into four other Class of 1953 mates. I had lunch with ED BUCKOWITZ here in Burlington, Iowa. Ed was in Burlington to sell his check service to our local banks. 
"Several months ago DAVE COSTIGAN and his lovely wife Mary and family (1 thinJk five children) visited my family (wife Sue and two children, Kathy and Mike) here in Burlinston. "I am now sales mgr. of the Wiiiegard Co and have occasion to visit all parts of the country." Keep them coming, Joe! Address; 3000 Kh^­wood, Burlington, Iowa 52601. 
That's it for this issue. Please write! 
mi 
IflLTON J. BEAUDINE 
21 SIGNAL HILL BLVD. 
E. ST. LOUIS. ILL. OZIB 

Whoopi! Got eaoglit mtli my ktten down and a quick drartfinf Not even one Cnle caid ance my last writing. Get the lead out, you gujs-diop me a short note or use the yelloir cu d that appean in this isme. 
Fn n the Ahmini Office: FHIL DOELL is a peribnnancc engineer in the contract section of the ^bcock & Wikm Co.'s boiler ifiv. in Barberton, Ofajo. Ke was on hand in Washington, DC to celebrate the ipOth anniversary of his company's first patent. YATES HAFNER was awarded a PhD in English and Humanities at Stanford in June. He %¥as a univetsity honors fellow and a teaclui« asst. at Slanfoid in 1938-62 and is now asst. prof, of literature at Antioch. Their second chad, Hilary Mary, vna bom May 17. JOE I'EASER was a member of the pioneer class of the Plenn State U. CoUege of Medicine. 
JIM HEARONS has been living in Norwallc, Goim., for five years years with Iiis wife and fom- boys, and was just promoted to sales mgr. of the industrial materials div. of Owtns Coming in 
BOB BLOOM will be on hand for our Reunion party after the Cal. game this fall along with GEORGE BOEHM and wives. He's just returned from Expo '67 and is sales mgr. at Omida Ltd. 
That's it! 
PAUL FULUfER 19Z2 LARKDALE DR. 
GLENVIEW, ILL. 60025 

1S33 
A reminder probably isn't necessary, but we want one and all on deck for the victory cel^ration at the Morris Inn after the Iklichigan State game. The shindig will be in the Shamrock Room, the private room behind the main party area on the lower leveL 
Letter of the cycle comes from FRANK SURGE, although it took him 12 years to come throi^h with an eptstle! Frank has bounced from New York (IBM), to the Coast Guard, back to Chi­cago (ITT), then to New Jersey, back to Chi­cago, and then to California in 1960. He was made a product mgr. for Beckman Instrument in Sao Francisco in 1963, but u-as transferred bock to LA in 1963. The family liked the Bay area so much that he joined Faircbild there as a product mgr. in data sTstems. He now is marketing mgr. of the components group. He adds: *'Ran into BOB McGRATH, who owns a sales engineering company, actually one of my competitors. Saw JIM PAVIS at a cursillo he was running. Jim is plant mgr. for Fuller Piiints. Ran into PAUL MATZ on a vacation in Arizona a few years ago. Would enjoy news about the BRETTS, AUERS, DEVEREAUX, SHERIDANS, and my ex-roomies, PASQUESI and BUCCI." Write him at 1131 Pomeroy, Santa Clara, Calif. "After almost eight years without children Barb and I decided to start adopting and we have assembled a League of Nations. The oldest girl is four and of Polish descent; the giri, 2, is Irish, and our boy, Bobby, who is 8 months, is Cuban." 
Saw DON GELS at the housewares show only days after receiving a long letter from him. The Old Maestro reports that he leaves the muuc in the family to the kids .. . blows a few sour notes on birthdays and special occauons. He en­joyed GENE BERTONCINM, who used to play guitar for Don, on a recent "Tonight Show.'* Don represents the Magicolor I^int Co. on the East Coast. Don and Lois have lived in various areas of New Yo ^ and Connecticut and he managed to pick up an MBA from NYU. They have four children and live right outside Philadelphia (3541 Darby Rd., Haverford, P^.) Don reports that STEVE PREVOZNIK, his wife, Rita, and their seven children live nearby and **we get together for snne conversation and ale." Steve, Don and Frank all plan on being on hand for the MSU game and Reunion party. 
MIKE KELLY reports the Reunion party will be a regular meeting for his Chicago clan. Or* ganization '55. The next meeting after that iriU be Nov. 21 at Lattner's steak house (drinks, dinner and some tall stories, mostly from LOU ZEFRAN). 
Another bulletin from California comes from TOM DORWIN, the king of the water skiers. "I was chief judge for a water ski tournament m Berkeley this past weekend (they do something besides demonstrate in that fair city) and sur­prini^Iy we didn't have any protests. Either I'm becoming more mellow in my old age or the con­testants arc reading the rale book!" 
PAT SHEEHAN has joined Travenol Laboxa­
HD MEN SERVING THEIR
Up Front 

COUNTRY AROUND THE WORLD 
KIRCHNER AND BUDDY 
Moj. Lewis G. Kirchner '53, who 
is assigned as an AC-47 Skytrain 
pilot with the 4th Air Commando 
Squadron at Pleiku Air Base in 
Vietnam, is the enthusiastic of­
ficer in charge of a people-to­
people program. 
A word here, a word there, and 
from the "home front" started the 
flow of bundles for the Montag-
V. 
tones as fleet mgr. He will be responsible for fleet operations for all di\-isions and the purchase of company vehicles in the US and Canada. For­merly with Hollingshead Leasing in Chicago, Pat and his wife have three children. 
Hey, gang, tise those yellow* cards that cur friendly editor includes in some issues (page 30 this time). It's an easy way to get the news to your aging secretary. ED JOST (24 Crescent Ave., Buffalo) used one recently to tell me that he has been named an assoc. prof, and chairman of the English dept. at Medaille Col. in Buffalo. "Medaille, I am happy to say, is a new Catholic college,—an anomaly, no doubt, in a world of secular cities and colleges. I am especially pleased with this new position as I recall long-ago Cmedieval?) experience at three significant insti­tutions, St. Louis U., ND, and prc-Jackie Webster College. In October 1 will read a paper on 'The Anglican Background of Drydcn's Religious Poems' at the annual conference of the Pennsyl­vania Council of Teachers of English at Pcnn State U." 
DICK O'ROURKE (17230 W. GrangevtUe BU-d., Lemoore, Calif.) had his good right aim, Carolyn, jot down a few notes on a yellow card. They have enjoyed getting together with several Noire Damets, including JIM EHRET. Xim is a Lt. Cmdr. in the Navy, stationed at Lemoore Na%-al Air Station. His wife, Honey, and daugh­ter, Ann Kora, are with him. Dick is dividing his time between his ranch and work for In­vestor's Diversified Seniccs. 
Hats off to GEORGE SHELTON, our Class agent, and all tliose who helped put the Chss of '55 in second pbcc (percentage donating) in last year's Foundation drive. We were only a shade out of first pbcc. Let's get it this year, espedally now that we have the ambitious Summa program about to be launched. 
You'll remember that I mentioned that Rev. JOHN RYAN'S brother w:as seriously wounded in Vietnam. I thought you would be interested in a recent note from Father John: "Bill unden%ent surgery yesterday for four hours. They took bones from his hips and fused them on hi5_ spine. The reason for the four-month delay is that the doctors didn't think it would have been tiseful, not anticipating his miraculous recovery from a closed back injury. We believe that the finger of the Father touched the crushed spinal cord." Father John says that he and another Notr« Darner, Rev. DICK HOG.\N '57 wiU be the senior assistants now at the Cathedral of Saint Raymond in Joliet, 111. "We will run an N D pennant on the Papa! flagpole in front of the CathedraL" 
Heard from Florida's new pride, lARRY BUCKLEY, who, after boasting about the fine weather, invited one and all to the ND-Miami game. Larry reports two "confirmed sightings." He ran into CARL BRATTON (nothing serious) at the Miami airport. 
JOHN O'BRIEN informs mc that he has been certified in psychiatry by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology. The tall one resides at 115 Fifth Ave., N.E., St. Petersburg, Fla. 
nard tribesmen of Vietnam's cen­
tral highlands. In their letters 
home, members of Major Kirch­
ner's unit had commented on their 
project to aid the Montagnard \i\­
lagers of Pleiku Bon Bao, and told 
the things they needed. So recently, 
packages began arriving at Pleiku. 
"Letters have also been received 
informing us of larger shipments 
being assembled," s^d Major 
Kirchner. "The home front re­
sponse has been so good," he con­
tinued, "that we are now extending 
our activities to include a Monta­
gnard hospital and an orphanage 
CHARLIE HUTTON checks in from 3019 Lex­ington Dr., Ann Arbor, Afich., where he is an engineer with Ford. He's got four daughters. Big BOB BENSON writes from 3010 Leahy Dr., Dallas, where he has been made regional sales mgr. for a lingerie firm. (Some guys have all the lock!) He has one boy. 
That's it for now. See you ail at the Mortis Inn after the big game. If, by some chance you can't make it, drop me a line with the latest. 
EUGENE O'CONNOR 
COSGROVE & O'CONNOR 
636 ELLICOTT SQ. BLDG. 
BUFFALO, N.Y. M203 
19S6 
It took 11 yeais, but June 20 the Class of »56 finally got together in Chicagoland for its FIRST quarterly dinner meeting at Johnny Lattner's Steak House. Even before the first tale was spun, a pair of classmates was excused for question­able cause. 
DICK BARTSCH had to baby-at with lus first son. Christian Thomas, who was bom Dec. 5. A new partner in the law firm of Ruddy, Myler and Bartsch, Dick also has three daughters! And JACK CASEY received this note: "LCDR. BECHTOLD regrets that the Navy has a priority on his time. Reporting for requalification in under* w^ter demolition work 19 June; annual reserve training. Place my name on the top of the list of the next dinner and please give my best regards to all. Bud." 
"Those other brothers," TOM and MARTY IhfULLARKEY, were among the first to be greeted by ole No. 14 at the door of Lattner's. Along \nth thousands of other subjects, Marty covered during the evening, he let on that he's real happy in the business planning and research dept. of Armour and Co. Tom noted that he's a citizen of what's left of Oak Lawn, lU. His family consists of t^^'o boys and a giri and passes on any further report "since he does not belong to the law fraternity." 
FRANK TIGHE was perhaps the last to have his reservation in, but he was the first at the table; Frank works with high-voltage equipment for S and C Electric Co. He and Jane Mary have three ^I s and a boy on Chicago's North Side. 
Another early arriral was JERRY HOGAN who is w^th the City of Chicago's Central District Filtration Plant; Jerry and his bride Patricia reside in the Beverly Hills area in Chicago. One of the busiest gu>-5 at the table was PAUL KEARNEY. He's the contracting administrator of CfMik Electric in Morton Grove. He has p»rs of bo>*s and girls and he is quite proud of the JD degree from Loyola U. in 1966. He's in as great shape as he appeared in that kookie pose in the WaLh Hall senior class picture. 
That new home in Glenview houses the JIM REVORD family with six "gorgeous" idds—^onr ^I s and two boys. DON CARLIN left early to dash home to his "three beautiful children .. . in E\*anston." Don recently worked with DICK ST. JOHN on a patent law suit in Spokane, Wash. 
Our Class Agent (don't foiget to send in a 

located in nearby Pleiku City." 
Lf. Col. John F. Crowley '47 was 

presented with a Gold Star this summer at Norfolk, Va. The cita­tion stated that Lt. Col. Crowley, while commanding the 11th Ma­rines in Vietnam, "boldly led a night supply convoy into enemy-infested territory to deliver ammu­nition and personnel to the Fourth Battalion's forward artillery bat­teries. His courage and initiative won him the respect and admira­tion of his unit throughout numer­ous combat operations." 
J 
couple bucks), JOHN FANNON, saw to it that DON SCH.AEFFER found Lattner's. John, who lives in Wilmette, recently received a master's degree in business from U. of Chicago. He is married and the father of t%vo daughters. John's still in good enough shape to go 40 minutes with Wilt Chamberlain. The Bishop of Rockford has assigned Rev. JIM O'BRIEN to study TV com­munications at Northwestern U. JOHN ENGLER took a few moments from his successful career with "We the people . . . ," (Merrill, Lynch, etc) and his bride, Peggy, and four children in Winnetka to report on buddies PHIL CENE­DELLA (who lives in Dunkirk, NY with wife Jen and three children—all supported by their thriving pallet manufacturing finn); JOHN G.AL­LAGHER (doing well with Honeywell Corp. in sales dept. out of Des Moines, Iowa—they have two boys and a giri); and ED GILBERT (in­plant communications chief with Ford in Dear­born). 
GEORGE DAKOSKE MD is practicing mcdt­anc in Canton, Ohio and recently he and hts wife baptized their fifth offspring. He advises that JOE DiLUCIANO just completed medical school in Italy. 
DICK RUPP is another English teacher from our Class; he has been at Georgetown for six years. He advises that last October JOHN CHOMEAU had a reunion for our Class Alunini at his lovely country home near Great Falls, Va. Present were the KARL MARTESTECKs, the DAVE FRISKEs, the TOM F.ALCIXCELLIs, the CONNIE TRIMBERs, the BOB GULDEs, the FRANK McCARTHYs and assorted children. 
Other neu-s that Dick reports is that BILL BELLIS is still teaching English at tlic U. of Maryland and KEN DONADIO is also teaching English in Wallingford. Conn. RAY PAPAY is teaching piano in Manhattan. 
JIM SHOEMAKER MD has been demoting his practice to the Navy and anticipates returning to ci\'ilian life shortly. He has been at the Na\'ai Hosp. in Bethesda. 
DON SCHAEFFER has been in So. Holland with the Chicago Truck Drivers Union for eight years. He enjoys his success and shares with his bride, Jul, three children and one swimming pool! CARL EIGLESBACH is still Chicago-area's lead­ing bachelor accountant; he just returned from almost a month on the West Coast where he had a visit in Santa Rosa, Cal. with JOHN DAVID HOUK. Dave is teaching sixth grade and coaching baseball there and enjoying bachelor­hood from his cottage in a prune orchard. He's also n-orking on his master's degree and has made several trips to Europe with his brother. They talked of JOE NUSS who is in the retail business in Wayne, Neb. and driving a new Caddie every year! It's understood that PETE CONLON is soon to locate in the Old Town section of Chi­cago. Pete has done a great job with the stock market since finishing school. Carl asked if ROG LEOUS is still in the family fur business in Buffalo?? 
—JOHN MANION, 726 Forest Rd., LaGrange F^rk, HI. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OOOBER 
lAr n GEORGE W. GROBLE 
I * l 1 y III WEST WASHINGTON ST. 
IVV f CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 
Well, here goes my first column as your new 
Class secretary and they set a July 3 deadline on 
me. Please use the card on page 30 to help me 
next time. 
On behalf of the entire Class, I would like to 
congratulate JOHN McMEEL upon being elected 
Class prcs. and also thank him for the great job 
he performed over the past years. I hope I can 
match it. Congrats John on your new position as 
sales dir. with The Hall Syndicate. I hope it 
brings more money, too. 
Some additional comments on the Class Reunion 
are in order. We thank JOHN BARANY for the 
great job in oi^nizing the weekend for our Class. 

This appreciation was shown by the applause given 
John at the Friday dinner and his election as 

treasurer. 
Awards arc in order for the weekend and they 

are to: BERNIE LYONS—eloquence in oratory; 
JOHN REINHOLD—driving techniques; PAT­
RICK SHEERIN—early morning golf (I heard 
something about a 4:00 a.m. putting contest); 
DON BARR—greatest distance traveled—would 
you believe Paris? BILL LODGE—special award 
for appearance under strenuous circumstances (bis 
wife had No. 5 June 6); CONNIE LANE—Fred 
Astaire Award; MATTIE WEIS—Mister Clean 
Award (he claims baldness reflects intelligence— 
no comment); TOM O'BRYAN — perseverance 
a»rard; CHARLIE O'CONNELt-best dressed. 
Further awards will be announced in my next 
column. 
The New Yoi^ atmosphere seems to be treating 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
102 "I" ST. 
LAPORTE, IND. 46350 

1958 
Before proceeding to the news, vfc wish once 
again to announce that our annual autumn Re­
union is scheduled for Oct. 14 following the South­
ern California football game. The location once 
again will be the Afahogany Room of the 
Morris Inn. 
CHARLES L. ADIE (6 KCami, Nashua, NH 03060) writes that he now has three children— John, Jean and Judy. Charles graduated in June of 1966 with an MA in mathematics from Boston Col. and is now asst. prof, in math at Northern Essex Col., HaverhiU, Afass. J. PATRICK DO­HERTY is now with Good Housekeeping magazine as an advertising salesman, after having worked for Southern Living magazine, BBDO (advertis­ing) , the Chicago Tribune and Best Foods Co. Pat was married last June to the former Jeanne Marie Houlihan, the sister of MIKE FOGARTY's wife, Fran. Speaking of the Fogartys, they now have three children—Michael, Marty and Afoira. Mike works for the Meeker Co. selling advertising time for TV stations. Mike previously had been with Equitable Life, WON Radio and the Chicago Tribune. 
Pat also writes that BILL CINDER is employed 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 
2 ^ LEHMAN RD.. AFT. 42 
CINCINNATI, OHIO 4520t 

1959 
SPECIAL BULLETIN Pbn now to attend the Fall Class Reunion fol­lowing the Southern Cal., Oct. 14, Room 2(>t, O'Shaughncssy Hall. Congratulations to JOHN THURIN for the excellent work he did in editing the summer issue of INSIGHT, "New Metal under Old Bright­ness," and for John's continuing fine work as editor of the publication you are now reading. "Congrats" are also in order to JIM COONEY, now the exec. secy, of the ND Alumni Assn. John and Jim had a great deal to do with the Class Reunions during the past two summers and are already planning the second Reunion of the Class of '59, less than twto years away. We missed a lot of you at our first Reunion, so let's start planning now and try to get everyone back in June, 1969. USAF Capt. JOHN M. LEDDEN attended the Air U. Squadron Oflicer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. Heath Candy Co. has named JAMES 
A. HANLON to the newly created post of market­ing mgr. Rev. JOHN A. VRABELY assumed the position of associate supt. of schools for the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. Father had been head of St. Joseph HS, South Bend. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
lawyer ED DEAN well, he claims he gained only 
a "few" pounds since '57. BOB KUHN arrived 
with his California tan and claims the advertisilis 
business is flourishing. DICK BROWN has re­
turned to the Midwest from Ft. Lauderdale. He 
has joined up with the Naptown boys. Never 
thought a good Chi man would turn Hoosier. 
JIM "TINY" MUNRO reports he is in Des 

Moines, with a growing and, we hope pxtnperous, 
insurance group. JIM O'SULLIVAN is a glutton 
for punishment and, while maintaining a liill­
time job in industry and raising a family, is at­
tending Loyola Law School in Chi. Good lock, 
Jim. MANNY RIVAS MD came in irom New 
Orieans and reports PAUL HORNTJNG aixi bis 
wife have taken over the towli. Good luck IRuil 
and watch out for that GERALD GERAIfl down 
there. 
Where was my old roomie TOM HUGHES? 

I hear he is keeping busy with a wife and two 
children now and coaching a semi-pn> football 
squad in Portland, Ore., along with his regular 
work load. On a recent trip to Washington, DC 
I had a chance to visit with BOB O'NEIL and 
wife. Barb. He is respon^ble for the designing, 
etc., of the planned subway system there—]£ 
Uncle Sam releases the cash. 
Good luck to JACK O'DROBINAK in the iaD election race for City Judge in Whiting, Ind. What's this I hear about Dr. BILL BELL, now in London at Hammersmith Hospital on a Fnl­bright, and his wife, Barbara, a cardiologist, with him and also on a scholarship? That couple must have a corner on the brain market. GROVE ZIMMERMAN is now asst. v-p with Assoc. Dis­count Corp., in LA. 
by Power magarine and is living with his wife and three daughters near Cleveland. JOHN Mc-MAHON is in public relations with Alcoa in NeW­burgh, Ind. GERALD BURNS and his infe. Bat, live in Lathrup Village, Mich. Jerry is a sales* man for Johns-Manville in its industrial insula­tions dept. Our thanks to Pat Doherty. 
EUGENE P. O'NEIL (87-07 35th Ave., Jackson Heights, NY 11372) reports his promotion to mgr. in the New York office of Mce Waterhouse & Co. Along with the promotion he will be trans­ferring into the research department this summer. Gene and his wife, Maureen, welcomed their first child, Kara, last September. The TOM EISEN­HAUERS (4724 Ackerman Blvd., Dayton, Ohio 45429) became parents of their fourth chUd and. first son, Daniel, Feb. 9. The Eisenhaucrs built and moved into their new home last fall. Tom is still associated with Universal Pool Co. as per­sonnel and public relations dir. 
JOE ARNOLD was married to the former Anne Frank of Geislingcn, Germany, in his home toivn of Galveston in Sept. of 1965. Just prior to being married, Joe was promoted and trans­ferred from Continental Oils, personnel dept., in Houston to one of their division offices in Cleve­land as dir. of personnel relations. In May of this year Joe was transferred to Continental Oils International personnel dept. in NYC. The Ar­
TERENCE J. MCDONNELL MD »» with the 18th Surgical Hosp. at Pleiku in the central high­bnds, Vietnam. He saw Dr. BUDD MENN '60, TOM lAWRENCE '63 and DUFFY NORMAN '65 while he was there. Terry left Vietnam and the Army in July and has returned to Arm Arbor where he will finish orthopedic residency at the 
U. of Michigan. The McDonnells have two chil­dren, Kathleen (3) and Brian (1!^). Carter Bertrand ("C. B.") Thomas has joined his parenu Pat and JACK THOMAS at 5709 Zenith Ave. S., Edina, Minn. (53410). Jack has been traveling Iowa, S. Dakota and Nebraska for Pru­dential. C. B. was bom June 13. 
TERRY LAMB writes he finally made it through law school. (He even enclosed the invitation to Catholic U.'s commenc'ement to let us know it's official.) Terry is employed by the R. H. Hagner Realty Co. in DC. He spent what he terms a "great evening" with JACK BEARD and JOE HARRISON in DC last June but thinks Jack's boss should check the expense account thoroughly. 
JACK "TV" STEWART wrote for the first time (yeah!). He and Aidell were married the day before he got out of the Navy in June, 1962 and the wicdding party included classmates PAT ROLLINS and RAY WHELAHAN, both of whom were working in DC at the time. The Stewarts returned to Los Angeles to raise a family (David, 3; Monica, 2; and Kimberly, 1) and support them 
Our das veepi are BILL KIGAU (Evt): TDK DOYLE (Sooth); BILL UcGOWAN (North Central) and JOE SEICB (West) o i they have •—•—•» the itspomBhiBtf of - sccsac that tlus cafamm is suppHtd with aews^t* htip it going. So I hope everyone will gi n m a haad in keeping ns np to date on all the doiagi.ef our cbooates. Word out ot the Eat is that a pressure gmap known as NESS is atkaptias to noDopoEze the oohnnn. Then wil be Im^t*: wocd on this imdeigronnd orgaaintMM headed.ay VP Rigalo ia the next isme. 
At the Rennion JAY CLAKK and I had m chance to reSect on the old dajs vrivn IKANK PEDACE, Jay and myself were' coartiag tksce stewardesses £R ^ the same apartmeat in Cihirsjn." As a resah the stewardesses are now oar itspee­tive wives and motheis of a total of 11 chiUca. It was good sedng DOUG IfcKAY who coatr muted to the Rennion from Duwjgiac, IGch. Doug is operating his bunoess there and lainac a growing iamily. TERRY KILBRIDE has prom­ised to famish the cohmm with Detroit news and his first scoop was that JACK UUKXAY Idt at European toor had a greater hne Aaa Ae Reuidon. Welcome home. Jack. 
In cloang the cohmm, I would Eke to adrise that my secretary, Karen, has agreed to take fidl rcsponalrility for all enots in qicDing and tnation and if any of the Class of '57 thoughts ot tuii^ for libel or slander, I you look for a solvent defendant and that dudes the writer. 
P.S.: The thoughts expressed above are dboae of the writer and not necessarily iiaat of the seczetary. 
nolds have one child, a son, bom bst Fcnrany* 
BUCHAEL P. UNDERWOOD is mth lawn­nUnois Gas & Electric Co. in Davenport^ loaa as a training supervisor. Recently Mike was rifgled "OntstantSng Man of the Year" by the Oama­port Jaycees, for his community service. The Underwoods', 2821 Olympia Dr., Bctt, Iowa. 
Just as we went to press with this issae of dm ALUMNtts, I received a note from JOHN HIRSCH­FELD inviting all members of the Class atteniifiav the ND-DEni game in Champaign, Oct. 21, ta come to his house for a pre-game party. John fins at 809 Dodds Dr., Champaign. 
According to news forwarded by the Ahans Office, LCDR THOMAS C. BARTHOLOlfEW is on tour with the 7lh Fleet on the Commander Amphibious Squadron Nine Staff. His address is USN Com Fhilbron 9 Staff, FFO, San Fran­cisco 96601. Also from the Alumni Office, Dr. ARNOLD E. SCHWARTZ, assodaie proL of civil engineering at Qemson U., has been ap­pointed head of the dept. He is enrrently coo-ducting a 30.month f82jl80 project f«' the South CaroUna H^way Dept. and the US Bnrean of Foblic Roads. 
That is all the news for now. On page 30 in this issue you iriU find yeHow postcard forms ­which we invite yod to use for forwarding news to us. 
through his efforts as a stock broker mth Deaa Witter and Co. in the Westwobd office. At various ND Club of LA functions. Jack has seen FRANK NACOZY, MARK WALSH and SON PARKER. JIM HEAVEY and Jack get together regubrly and irregularly when BILL SHERRY hits town as he £ d a couple of months ago. On Club outings to San Francisco, Jack has seen ED SULUVAN and TOM CAHILL. Sometimes GENE KELLY vints from Chicago and LEE BRAND and Jack get together with him. 
JOE McMANN is stiU with NASA's Blanncd Spacecraft Center in Houston, and is presently working in life support equipment for extra­vehicular activity. Joe had previously managed the section responsible for the development of the chestpack used on Gemini Sights IX through XU. Joe married Judy Manno of Houston Jime 
24. BOB TURICCm (15238 Mkkrcst Dr., Whit­tier, Calif, 90604) recently accepted a position as asst. vp of the Ahmanson Bank and Trust Co. in Beverly Hills. Sharon and DON O'BRIEN are leanng the Navy (in the Mojair Desert of CaSf.) and Don moves on to more spedalty trmning in urology at Seattle's U. of WasUngton M»-fii-al Center. Their new address is 615 N.W. 85th St., Apt. 6, Seatde, Wash. 98107. 
JIM DULAN is now the iCr. of potEdty and ' advertising with Blair Televiaon (rcadence at 1629 MiltWDod Road, Cohmifaus, Ohio (43227). 
35 
Jim held assignments in the PR field irith American Can, .\TS;T and with the ND publicity dept. Jim's wife is expecting this month. 
TOM "T.J." JOSEPH announces the birth of their first child, Maria Jane (April 10) and also that they now reside at 90 Summit Ave., Wollas­ton, Mass. 02170. For the past two years, T.J. has been with the div. of banks and banking of the Commonwealth of Mass. and attended the Williams Col. school of adranccd banking this past summer. For T.J.'s old buddies who are sur­prised to hear he settled down, he married Eliza­beth Murphy (Col. of New RochcIIc '60) June 25, 1966. ^ . 
BOB WOMBACHER graduated from St. Louis 
U. Dental School June 3 and is now an intern in pediatric dentistry at Children's Hosp. in Cin­cinnati. The Worabachers have two children. Bob (2) and Ann (1). 
Harriet Doisey writes for her husband, Capt. J.AMES J. DORSEY, that the latest tally for the Dorsey household is five daughters: Val (8), Pat (7), Betty Lou (5), Terry Ann (2) and Jean ikiarie (1). Jim just completed an 18-month accompanied tour at Kwajalcin Test Site, Xfarshall Islands. The Dorscj-s have since ventured to Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md., for the Or­dinance Career Course. 
WARREN ALBRIGHT sends the following items: Katie and BILL McCULLOUGH have No. 2 — Bill, Jr., with Warren as godfather. JON SIDDLE has gone into business for himself and is doing extremely well as an industrial designer. ROGER O'NEIL has moved on to Mobil's Paris office for the next two years. 
THOMAS J. O'CONNELL 3350 EVERETT RD. LAKE FOREST, ILL. 60M5 
1910 
1967 — KICK OFF — 1967 There's the boot! It's deep and taken on the goal (Calif. State) Hnc by TOM GREENE, bud­ding Santa Barbara lawyer. He and Mrs. (Laura Meier, SF Col. '60) married in '62 and now butter the bread of Elizabeth and Tom Jr. cour­tesy of Schramm, Raddus & Seed. Even though he is out in hippy heaven, things can't be too bad for a guy whose name is number eight on the firm roster. Thanks for the note, Tom. Sorry this is 
r 

JOHN KIEFER and wife Marge have been m Kno-xiillc for a year now. John is stjll an engi­neer with Grcely and Hansen, Engineers, in Chi-town, and the Kicfers are in Knoxville buikling a sewage treatment plant. John and Marge have three children (5, 3 and 2) and ate plannmg a trip with CHARLIE SUS.ANO and %«ife to the ND-Ga. Tech game at Atlanta and will be look­ing for southern classmates. , 
H. CRANE DAY wion an international design award this year in the field of contemporary wall­papers for the new line he designed for Winfield Design Associates, Inc. Crane did serve a couple of months of active duty with the Air National Guard and is now a Captain! 
DICK DONOVAN wrote that Dr. MIKE COW­LEY, after receiving his PhD from Stanford in physics and teaching for a year at U. of California at San Bernardino, b now engaged in research m Palo Alto and lives on the coast to surf and sun. BOB BECKER returned to the States from lib job in Gutteborg, Sweden to attend the wedding of hb sbtcr, Barbara, and fellow architect, MIKE KELLY in Aug. 1965. 
BUD CAREY, after yet another trip around the world and a law degree from Cornell, now works for Internal Revenue in DC. Securities and Ex­change Comm. keeps rewarding the work of BOB COX. Senator Proxmirc seems delighted with MARK SHIELDS and DAVE BARRETT, a ncwlywed, has been promoted to Ass't US At­torney in Washington. TERRY PLUNKETT be­gins hb second year at Manhattanville (as a teacher!) and PhD candidate Donovan concludes hb report with the newTs that he will commute 
tardy, but copy is submitted t^vo months prior to publishing and if any correspondence is received in gray time period, it wll take four months to reach print. For instance, as you read thb, the Christmas issue copy is due to be submitted. ^ If you rush you can make it—but U as a writer you're bte, see you in '68. Oh! Incidentally, if any of you want a friend's address, write to ask for same. It is not the policy of this office to publish same because it takes up too much of my beloved bull-throwing space. 
AT THE "20"! JOHN H. BRAZINSKY MD says, ". . . who are >-ou?" Who am I? Who are you? But seriously, John drops a nice line that 
TURNING ON THE 5AMOAN TEACHERS 
One of the many fronts in the %var on ignorance is Samoa. Timothy Carroll '60 has joined the ranks of those helping this underde­veloped nation meet the demands of the 20th century. As a pro­ducer-director he uses television as his weapon to transform the aca­demic life of Samoa. 
When the United States talked the Samoan chiefs into ceding their sbc islands, the US promised free medical care and education in re­turn. "Until 1961, when the late President John F. Kennedy took the promise seriously, our single pos­session south of the Equator was a shameful disgrace," Tim says. "In 1961 Re.K Lee, a career man in the Dept. of Interior, accepted the Govemoship and started a new age for American Samoa." 
For the descendants of those Polynesians who paddled their war canoes across thousands of miles of ^\'ater to populate and settle nearly everj' dot of land in the Pacific, a phenomenal change has taken place in the last five years. 
But nowhere is it more apparent than in education. The new edu­cational television system has com­pletely revamped learning Samoa style. Now 22 consolidated pri­mary schools and four high schools receive 260 programs a week on six chaimels. 
Tim says his job is everything he hoped it would be. "There are fine teachers, an excellent graphic section and the best studio crew I have ever had; engineers quick, camera men alert, administration backing us up." 
To carry out the objectives of the Department of Education, les­son plans, teacher training and cur­ricula emanate from a single In­structional Resources Center. Four studios are booked solid with 
Tim CarroU '«0 

between the U. of Minnesota and Washington (Folger Shakespeare Library) to finbh hb doc­torate in English. 
DAVID S. MANN has just started a law firm: Mann, Cogan and Czekala at 39 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tippy was married in Nov., 1964, and he and Sara have a year-old son, I^sul, and another child due thb summer. Tip reports that JOHN LEAHY was last seen in Long Beach, Calif. 
Dr. DENNIS W. READEY has joined Raytheon Co.'s research div. in Waltham, Kfass. as a principal research scientbt. RUDY HORNISH has been promoted by the Prudential Co to ad­vertbing and sales promotion mgr. of the Eastern home office in Newark. PETER L. HELLAWELL b woriung as a product mgr. for the Thomas J. Lipton Co. in Englewood Cliffs, NJ. FRANK CULLEN has been named pres. of the CuUen-Friestedt Co. following the death of hb father. 
BOB GIARR.\TANO b doing hb residency at San Diego Hosp. He was married in 1963 to Mikele Dawn Cavilecr and they have a ycar-^jld daughter. THOMAS ROSS WILKINSON and hb wife, Judy Lito, have an infant son. Tom b working toward hb PliD in bacteriology at Washington State. 
Once again, guys, may I plead with you to fill out the yellow post card you find on page 30 in thb issue? As one of the above contributors wrote on hb card, "It's so simple that even an Alumnus can fill one out!" 
I hope to see YOU at our fall Reunion after the So. Cal. game — Oct. 14 in room 204 of O'Shaugh­nessy Hall. 
after GWU Med School 'W he is presently in pathology residency at Letterman Hosp. in SF & loves the town. (Ain't that the truth.) DON BAUMGARTNER, Jo Ann and Dana Maura cele­brated '67 by welcoming son Chris, and the news of Don's appointment as admin, super, at North­rop. BOB REAUME and Trudy (Johnson) have gone from the Martin Co. to N.A.Av. to Ampcx to Airescarch of Garrett Corp. in Sherman Oaks where he is attached to missile system sales as a project admin, and contract negotiator. "P.S.," he saj-s, **sales and married life play havoc with the wabtlinc, but I wouldn't change it for the world." J. J. RYAN is A.O.K. with former A.A, 
teachers from 7:30 a.m. imtil 10 p.m. 
"One could probably say this is the most comprehensive educa­tional television system extant in the world today," Tim commented. "We prefer to say we have found a system that is unprecedented in the effect it is having on a whole school population. Our students, who until the advent of our elec­tronic presence were below main­land par, are now bounding ahead. With the new daily insights such a system affords, one can safely observe there is more coming of age in Samoa than Dr. Margaret Mead dreamt of." 
What's the rest of island life like? "Everything about the place is wrapped in romance," according to Tim. "My temporary domestic condition (i.e., bachelorhood) is likely to be affected . , . for it is almost as true as the bad fiction represents it. Skeptics will scoff and say the 20-year-old beauties will look 60 at 30 — and there are some overweight Samoans — but get them to sing! As one Samoan friend said, 'I like to feel the warmth of it!'" 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

stew Cindy Mantiply in Redondo Beach. Way to fly. Jim! CLAY SMITH, former FBI agent of LA, is returning to Indianapolis and the '67 season. 
MIDFIELD! Not-so-fat TERRY LALLY has a wonderful wife Sue. He's "a heck of a man." I don't feel the column would reflect properly Sue's letter on the loss of premature twins, but suffice it to say that with the loss, they are richer still, because of her love. See you at the "glorious, wild wonderful feeling" time in the fall. Sue and Terry. As all men must, so have W. DICK FLUNKETT (Sandra Oldershaw, Evanston, III.) and KEN SCARBOUGH (Nancy Krocgcr. Fort Wayne). Dick goes from teaching to syst. and proc. with Allstate. Ken to 1st Natl, of Dayton. DAN CAREY's wife Joanne scz Kelly and Danny are big on Top's Big Boy 'cause Pop is a gen. mgr. in Springfield. Dr. TOM ROSE echoes the feelings of many, "excited and encouraged by new developments at ND!" (Sec. Note: Are you people reading your Insight?! An excellent June issue.) Tom is a resident in int. med. at U. of Minn. Hosp. After Med school there, he'll be W.Va. U. Intern and USA Flight Surgeon. 
THE "20"! Don't know if it's the beans or the beer that slows the Boston Irish down, but at long last "the man" has responded. KEVIN (himself) WHALEN sez, **after six years of Navy, I am now competing at IBM with KFOURY. Things were too busy for three of us, so they sent HOWIE FOLEY to Poughkcepsie to spread the wealth." "Ed & Patti have been kind enough 
^VILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 SCRIVO DR. WARREN, MICH. 48092 

1961 
Before I get into some of the news of our Class, I have been told that the yellow return card is to appear in this issue of the ALUMNUS on page 30. So I vnsh you would take a minute to rip it out and drop me a short note to let me know what you are doing with yourself thrse da>'5. 
I heard JIM HICKEY and his wife Debbie 

SMC'62 had their first child, a boy, Nov. 8, 1966. 
They named the red-headed Irishman James Patrick 
IIL Jim mentioned that KEN JOHNSON and 
hb wife Anne SMC'62 dropped in to see him 
last summer. Ken and Anne have two daughters 
and are living in South America. Jim also saw 
DON HICKEY and his wife Barbie SMC'62 and 
they are living in Comwelk Hts., Pa. JOHN 
COONEY and his fiancee Kathleen Marmarou also 
\^sited Jim last winter. John is a CPA now and is 
with the firm of Haskins and Sells in Philadelphia. 
He and Kathleen were to be married May 6. Jim 
ran into DON CHMIEL is Cleveland last April 
and mentioned that Don is a product mgr. for 
General Foods Corp. He is living in White Plains, 
NY. I appreciate the news, Jim. Thanks a lot. 
I received a note from PAT CONLEY who was not an undergraduate of our Class but Pat did receive his MA in history from N D in 1961. Pat also received his PhD from ND and con­siders N D his alma mater and wants to pass on some information to some of his friends. Pat and his wife Virginia have four children. He is asst. prof, of history at Providence Col. He is prescndy serving as research advisor to the R.I. Constitutional Convention. He has also been appointed a member of the Rhode Island Crime Comm. and has been named legislative and re­search asst. to US Congressman Robert O. Tieman of RI. 
I received some information regarding ED KOM­PARE. He received his MD from the U. of Illinois Med. School and served his internship at the 111. Research Hosp. in Chicago. He is now in the service of the US Public Health, ad­ministering to the Na\'ajo Indians in Arizona. Ed is married to the former Maria Mazza SMC*65, and they have a son, John. BOB COONEY writes me that he is an agent for Conn. General Ins. Co. working out of their Boston agency. He and Betty have a daughter, Cheryl, 4, and had a son, Sean, last January. 
DENNIS CANTWELL ^\•rote and said he was 
H. JAMES KRAUSER 1760 EAST \VEST HIGmVAY SILVER SPRING, MD. 20910 

1963 
Class Reunion Oct. 7, N D vs. Iowa. In my first official column I would like to convey some of my thoughts concerning ways and means of malt­ing these articles more interesting to you. High­lighting particular areas or cities, giving informa­tion of members of specific groups, football team 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1947 OaOBER 
to feed me when I've looked particularly thin." (Sec. Note: Did you give up beer?) "Loved every minute of Navy life. Through the years have tipped a few with JACK O'BRIEN, TED McCOURTNEY. DAVE OTTE, DOUG ZILLOX, FRED DEROCHER, DON CONDIT, DICK MEANY. MALONE is teaching chem.; BAKER we know about, but never hear from; PAUL CUMMINGS, a Navy navigator; and AL PERINI was last heard from in Cairo." (Sec. Note: Oy Vey!) Caed Mile Failte, Kevin! JOE HILGER bought it, (Sue Macklem, Penn St. '61). Living o£f Price W. & Co. Mrs. DON HEWITr (Lee Knuck) moved with the big W. from Boston to Pitt, and now Albany. Don has a master's from RPI. Thanks, Lee. Seriously! JERRY MURPHY, MIKE DIVNEY and I would appreciate sugges­tions on memorials (ie., scholarships) for the families of our classmates killed in A^etnam. Class contributions to a bank account and invest­ment programs have been suggested. Please let us have your comments. 
TD.-ND.-What the hey! Why not 10-0? II Kevin Hardy is the smallest man on the front line! Ara Go Braugh! 
Now is the time When we shout Give us a T.D. And boo the ref. out 
The run, the pass And the knock at the gate Give all the Alums 

in a psychiatry residency at Washington U. He interned at the U. of Calif. Med. Center in San Francisco, after graduating from med. school at Washington U. in St. Louis in 1965. He is now stationed in Santa Ana, Calif, as the psychiatrist at the Naval Air Station. Dennis married the former Susan McKenna of St. Louis in June 1965 and they have a daughter, 1. They were expecting again in August. Dennis also sent along some information about some of our classmates. 
J. J. MACEDONIA graduated from med. school in Mexico. He will intern in Columbus, Ohio. He and his wife Dianne had a daughter in March, their first. 
BILL HEINBECKER %%-as working for his PhD in computer science at Washington U. in St. Louis and has been playing a lot of tennis. Bill will be working with IBM after school. Bill's married and has two daughters — ages 2 and 4, BILL SNOOKS is single and living in Lake Forest, 
111. where he is doing accounting work. TODD ENLANUEL is married and graduated from St. Louis U. Med. School in 1966 and now is in­terning at St. Louis U. Hosp. TOM KRONER graduated from St. Louis U. Med. School in June of 1963 and now is in a psychiatry readency in Wisconsin. ED KOMPARE graduated from 
U. of 111. Med. School in 1965. After interning at III. Research Hosp. he is now in the Public Health Service in Arizona. Ed is married and has one child, a boy. 
CHRIS VANDEVERE graduated from George­town U. Med. Schol in June of 1965. He is now ^vith the Food and Drug Admin, as a physidan in Washington, DC. Dennis also saw JIM Mc-VEIGH last year at the Calif, game in BeAeley. At that time Jim was single and working in hos­pital administration in Los Angeles hosp. At the same game Dennis saw JOHN CARELLA who is practicing law in San Francisco and JIM MAD­DEN who ^vas interning at Highland Alameda Co. Hosp. in Oakland after graduating from lU. Med School in June '65. MIKE KELLY graduated from U. of Virginia Law School in June '64 and was recently discharged from the Navy and living in Miami. KEVIN CURREY interned at Jewish Hosp. in St. Louis after graduating from Missouri 
U. &Ied School in 1965. Now he is in an opthal­mology residency at Missouri U. Med Center. Dennis, I appreciate the work and time that went into this information. 
TOM BRANNIG.\N just returned from a three-year tour with the Army J.-\G Corps and is now ^vorking for the attorney general of HI. JACK 
or Blue Circle members of our class, are two thought 1 hope to enlarge on in issues to come. Please pass along any recommendations and re­quests. 
Because BILL OTTEN answered his survey so diligently, I have news of most of our classmates in the St. Louis area. Bill, a field supeilnsor for Home Life Insurance Co. is married and has one son. He ^vrites that McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis employs quite a few '62rs. Among these Tlie iKentnre to hate. 
X-TRA FT. —Hate to do tha but, if I were 

getting liitched, I would imnte BILL McMUR* 
TRIE to my wtddangl Next iaue, the results ol 
our Claai survey on marriages, duldrcn, Jnni f j 
etc. Alio info tnm South of the border, Mi w 
Dixon, that is. 
One who is quite busy trying to fill some hag 

shoes is PAUL SHERIDAN, 16th Ward aldenoa* 
in Chi. In Feb. be celebrated both his clectioa 
and birth of number two son Luke. Paul succeeds 
hu late father who held the office for 22 years. 
It is only the second time in Chi. political history 
that a son has followed father. Well d«ie! 
TOM HIRONS is still on campus teaching medu 

engr., but will spend the summer at the Lawrence 
Radiation Lab in lavermore, Calif. He'll spend a 
lot of time though in San Francisco %nth his 
brother-in-Uw MIKE HENDERSON. His cx­
roomie TIM CARROLL is now directing the cthi­
cational TV program in Pago Pago, American 
Samoa. That goes to show that TV isn't so bad 
after all. JIM RADDE SJ recently completed his 
history MA at St. Louis U and is presently teach­
ing Spanish at Campion High in Wu. He has still 
to pursue hb theology studies, but hopes eventual­
ly to work in Latin America. 
Support your class sec, send money or con­
structive criticisni. Use the card on page 30. 
P.S. Mail your Xmas cards eaily!—espeoally 
In alphabetical order, Shalom 

WHIl'AKER is now mana^ng his company's data pmxsoBg dept. (Whitaker Cable), teachii^ part time (evenings) at the U. of Misouri and serv­ing on the diocesan committee for cctunenical relations (Kansas City). GENE TRANI <Bd graduate wA in Am. cfiplomatic hbtory at Ind. 
U. and received his MA in 1963 and PhD in 1966. For the last two yean he has been an instructor in history at Ohio State and next year win be an asst. prof at Southern lU. U. in Car­bondale. Gene is married (Lob) and iias two children: Anne, 4, and Frank, 2. 
TOM AUREUO b with the IRS in NY a Rev. HENRY J. HECKMAN BfA earned hb FhJ>. at Oido State. JAMES A. ZWERNEMAN has re­crived an appointment to the faculty of the oper> atiotts research and economics div. of the Research Triangle Inst, owned by Duke, U of NC and NC State. 
GEORGE E. O'CONNELL wrote and told me he received an BAA in sociology at ND last sum­mer. He will also receive an MA in sacred sci­ences from Niagara U thb spring. He was or­duned May 13 and sud hb first Mass May 14 in the Church of the Blessed Sacrament Holyoke, Ikfass. 
DON BRIDENSTINE told me he a with Chevrolet Motor Div. as db. mgr. tn Ann Arbor, Blich. Don and hb wife have four children now — Dan, Mark, Paid and Lisa. 
GREG GEHRED informed me he b finishing medical school at Western Reserve U in Cleveland and was to graduate thb past June. Greg plaimed to start hb internship at Bernalillo County Indian Hospital at the U of New Mexico in Albuquerque, July 1. He b engaged to Miss Patricia Ann Martin and was to be married June 3 in Rochester, NY. He said he will be glad to see anyone living in or travelling through the Albuquerque area. Grcag also mentioned that JIM KAVAL returned from hb Peace Corps stint in Liberia in January, 1966, and lives nearby. He's working for G. T. Goudreau and Co., a construction-real estate devel<^ment company in Cleveland. RON MISTUR was mar­ried in August, '63 and has a daughter. Greg mentioned that he runs into Ron in the Cleveland area. 
I am limited in the length of thb article and I still have more information to pass on to you. I won't forget you. The last issue vnth the reply cards worked out wtU so use the card on page 30 in thb issue. 
Hope to see some of you at ibe games thb £alL 
are DENNY COONEY (married), two Uds, witll MBA from St. Loius U.); DON CANOIDO (married, 3 children); AL SONNTAG, areo­nautical eng.; BILL WALSH, electrical eng. and studying for MBA at St. Louis V.; and ROGER NASSEH, an eng. who last year was elected pres. of the Catholic Alumni Club. 
Continuing with those from St. Louis, DICK COFFIN, still unattached, works for Nooter Corp. and recently was awarded his MB.\ from St. 
37 
Louis U. JOHN GUCCIOXE, single, is manag­
ing Guccione's Market. JIM MERCURIC has 
joined many of our classmates in Vietnam. Jim, 
engaged to be married next fall, is stationed with 
the 1st Ca^'alry Div. in An Khe as a legal officer. 
GLENN HENDRY, married wth two children, 
is an accountant for L>-brand Ross Brothers. 
NEIL SMITH is wiarking for the Federal Reserve 
Bank in per. dept. P.AUL ERZER works for 
&fonsanto. DICK. MUSLAL, married with two 
kids, is in charge of Stan-the-Man, Inc. GREG 
DIVIS is married and close to his PhD in chem. 
at Washington U. DICK DYNIEWICZ is engaged 
to be married if the event hasn't already taken 
place. R.\LPH D'AMORE, married with one 
child, is in residence in neurosurgery at Barnes 
Hosp. 
CHRIS REID got his law degree from St. Louis 
U. and is now stationed in Indianapolis wxh the US .A.rmy. BOB ISSACS h married and manag­ing Manufacturer's Steel Co. TOB HIBBS, still very much single, b working for International Shoe. FRANK PELLEGRINI, married with two children, is a ^vorks mgr. for H. K. Porter Co. Inc. in the dec. div. Former St. Louisians JOHN MACHECA and BILL HAMILTON are neigh­bors of mine. Both work for the dept. of de­fense. John has one child and Bill has two. 
I received an Alumni communication from 
JOE HOFFMAN who is now in grad. school at 
ND w*orking for his master's in mech. eng. Joe 
spent the summer working for .Argonne Research 
Labs outside Chicago. Reminds me that at the 
Reunion I bumped into Dr. BOB HENRY who 
is at .-\rgonne, too, along with MIKE GROLMES 
who is now completing his doctoral dissertation. 
Missed you at the Reunion, **Briarhoppcr.'' Bob 
and wife Paula are quite proud of the two addi­
tions to their family. 
More Reunion reflections: JOHN DEARIE 
and old roomie, TERRY McGLINN, again shared 
a boudoir. John has Iiad an interesting five years. 
Currently he b attending law school in NYC 
after picking up his MB.\ at Northwestern. Rumor 
kas it he may be abandoning that bachelor life 
ke has been so fond of. Just a silly rumor isn't 
it, John? Terry, married with two children, is 
a trust investment officer for Am. Bank and 
Trust Co. in Reading, Pa. 
Another old set of roommates very much in ew­dence were RICH a\TEN.-\CCI and NICK BUONICONTl. Rich, with his law degree from KD tucked away, is in New Jersey ^vorking in the US Attorney's office. Nicfc, one of the premier Enebackcrs in pro football with the Boston Pa­triots, is about to get his law degree from Suffolk. Kick also works for Polaroid in the off-season. My old roomie FRED SP.-\TZ is still in Louis­willc working for Am. Air Filter. Fred and wife Deanna have t^vo children. Fred related that EDDIE SCHNURR is having a lucrative career 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 PALMER HILL RD. OLD GREENWICH, CONTT. 06870 
1963 
First — Thanks to all who have recently taken the time to write. I've moved about ^vith the Army quite a lot thb year and the mail b beginning to catch up. The address which accompanies thb column b correct. Put it on the front side of the card on page 30 and fill in the reverse side so I can hear more news. 
Mary Lou and CHUCK HARTMAN wrote to announce the birth of a daughter, Katherine Marie, May 6. Congratulations also to Judy and TOM JOLIE on the birth of a son, Charles Laurence. Charles Laurence wzis bom in Bolivia where Tom and Judy are working for Catholic Relief Services. 

NICK HAVEL and D.\VE STEGMAN wiU graduate from Creighton Aled. School in June. Dave planned to be married June 17 to Jane Panther and begin hb internship at Hennepin County Hosp. in Minneapolb. Lt. JAMES P. DEJANOVICH recendy returned from a nine-month deployment in Vietnam and b presently working as a training officer at Great Lakes. He and wife, Susan, are expecting their first child in September. 
ED "MONK" MOLLOY CSC and DUANE BALCERSKI CSC have completed their first year of" theology at Holy Cross Col. in Washington. LARRY SHUBNELL was married in March and he and hb vnic live in Annapolb. JOHN &fc-GROARTY and hb wife live in DC where John b going to Hou-ard Law School and working as a Capitol policeman. JOHN CHRISTOPHER finbhed Alichigan Law School and Is working for a law firm in Cleveland. 
DAVE SCHEETZ writes that he planned to be with Equitable Life Assurance Co. 
I played golf with JOHN McR£YNOU>S who 
is stationed on Long Island with the Air Force 
in a legal capacity. **&fac" got lus Uw degree 
from U. of Tennessee and hopes to return to 
Knonille and set up practice. His old drinking 
buddy FRANK IkfOORMAN was there between 
Air Force assignments. Frank, who Is "careering 
it*' will be stationed in Calif, after spending three 
years in Munich, Germany. He and mfe Mita 
have three children and their new address is 3535 
Nav. Training School, Mather AFB, CaliL All 
the way from L.A. came WALT OSGOOD and 
VIC GRABOWSKI. Walt, after two injuiy 

riddled years in the New York Mets chain, re­
turned to ND to earn his MA in '64! He then 
taught school in L.A. but now his present interest 

is a Pic Shop in Downey, Calif. "Grabber" is 
teaching and coaching in the Anaheim area. 
Further word from the coast has BRIAN 

O'NEILL with the National Labor Relations 
Board in L~A. after picking up his law degree 
from Fordham. Brian and wife Cathy have a 
son. JOHN GILLARD took a back seat to no 
one in the Drewery's competition and his talcs 
of the *'crew" in the Chicago area kept many 
entertained. John is working in sales for the 
Chicago Tribune. Was pleased to learn that for­
mer S.B. Pres. CHRIS BUCKLEY will join many 
of his former classmates in the Washington, DC 
area after graduating from Harvard Law School. 
Chris has joined the DC firm of Covington and 
Burling. Speaking of presidents, EARL LINE­
"HAS Is now back in Chicago after completing 
his MB.\ at Harvard. Earl is working for Baxter 
Chemicals. 
ODDS ANT) ENDS: TOM JORLING, after earning a law degree from Boston CoL, is now an immediate neighbor of mine and woi^ng for the Dept. of Interior. Tom and wife Sandy are expecting their first child the end of July. STEVE WEIDNER keeps the Pentagon in order as a law-year in the Nav-y JAG. Steve is married to JOE DELL.A MARIA'S sister, Kate, and their first child, a boy, was bom the end of May. VINCE HARTIGAN and wife Kitty have a son and live in the Minneapolis area where \^nnie is a stock­broker with Dean Witter Co. BILL SCANLON, with a law degree from George Washington U., is working in DC with the General War Claims office. "Scans" just spent six months at Ft. JXx ^vith BARRY MAHER who works in Boston for the NLRB. 
TOM SMITH wll be in residence at Mt. Sinai Hosp. in Baltimore after July L Congrats to BILL CHOQUETTE and Miss Lynn Devancy who were married Aug. 12. Bill received his lifBA from Columbia and is now asst. to the pres. of Gilbane Bldg. Co. in Providence, RI. Saw BILL MULLANEY, wife Betsy and their tivo kids on a recent trip to Conn. Bill is living 
married June 10 to l^Iarcia A. Thiele. Dave is working as a TV accountant executive for KRDO­TV in Colo. Springs. TOM MURPHY received an LLM degree from Northwestern I«iw School in June. MIKE ALAGUIRE extended for six months in the Marines and will be discharged in July. Mike plans to work for National Football League Films Inc. in Philadelphia. 
US.\F Capt. JAMES R. BEST attended the 14-week Air U.. Squadron Officer School at Max­well AFB, Ala. JOHN R. GILDEA, attorney for ACles Laboratories, Inc., was elected asst. secy. of the CO. 
AHCHAEL D. CURRAX is studyu^ theology at the U. of Navarre in Pamplona, Spain and will be there for at least two more years. GOLBERTO 
E. RODREGUEZ-VELEZ earned his MD at Temple U. and will intern at Univeruty' Hosp., Rio Pledras, Puerto Rico. 
JOSEPH A. KISSLO JR. was gradtiated from Hahnemann Medical Col. of Philadelphia. He was awarded prizes for h b outstanding leadership and service to the college and hb class and for hb outstanding humanity in medicine. He was also elected to Alpha Omega Alpha, national medical honor society. He mil intern at Hahne­mann 'Medical College and Hospital, Philadelphia. JAMES L. HUGHES lU ako recehred hb MD from Hahnemann Afedical Col. and vrill intern at Hahnemann Medical Hosp., Philadelphia. 
Unfortunately, there was an error in the March-April issue of the ALUMNUS and the last name of FRANK LARSH MOHLER HI was omitted. Frank has been promoted to the rank of captain now after having completed several months of comprehensive combat duty overseas in Guam. He and. his creW engaged In apprracimately 50 ni Bethel, Conn, and working for IBM. PETE 
VIEIRA, who served in the Navy and then earned 
an MBA from Wharton, is now in Clevdand. 
Pete is a salesman for Scott Paper Co. Also in 
Cleveland is FRANK DUFFY who is working 
with Forbes magazine. After a short tour of duty 
with the Navy in Wash., Frank became tired of 
the DC girls and decided to try greener pastures. 
At least that is what DICK HUGHES told me, 
Frank. Dick is now working with Union Cariiide 
out of Boston after spending two fun-filled years 
also in DC. Let us hear from you, Dick. 
PAUL SCHELLHAMMER MD is a surgical 

intern at U. Hosp. of Cleveland. Paul married 
Ann Bamett in April '66 and they are now ex­
pecting their first offspring. Lt. TOM SLATER 
was presented with the Distinguished Flying Cross 
for service in Vietnam. Tom and wife Deborah 
have one son and live at 127 A Ranger St., 
Kingsville, Texas. Capt. DICK CORSO received 
the Bronze Star Medal in Vietnam for outstand­
ing meritorious senice as stock control officer of 
the 14th Trans. Battalion. Another recipient of 
the Bronze Star for bravery was GEORGE WIL-
LIAAfS, who is now back home in Boston work­
ing for Gillette. 
Spac^ limitadons being what it is, I have not 

been able to get all of my info in this column. 
Don't forget, however, to use the yellow cards 
on page 30 to keep me posted. It will only take 
a few seconds to fill it out. Until next time, 
''keep those cards and letters rolling in." 
AND FINALLY 

D.\N KOENIG at press time sent us this note: "Would be interested in seeing old friends w*ho plan on attending the ND-Illinois football game this fall. Am currently living in Urbana (207&-B Orchard Downs), a mUe from the stadium. Phone is 344-0367. MARK AfARQUARDT is also down here living in Champaign." 
1962 lAW 
PAUL K. ROONEY 
U.S. COURTHOUSE FOLEY sol NEW YOMK. N.Y. 10007 

JOE SUMMERS dropped in for a visit while he and Carol were vacationing in New York during early June. After graduation, Joe returned to Minnesota — St. Paul — and interested himself in local affairs. He served as an Assistant Attorney General for three years, followed by a year in private practice. TTiis year he was elected cor­poration counsel by the St. Paul City Council. As such, Joe b in charge of all civil and crim­inal litigation in St. Paul. Although thb position, needless to say, occupies a great deal of his time, Joe still manages to teach a course at night at the M^liam Mitchell Col. of Law. Joe and Carol have two children. 
long-range bombing missions over Vietnam and received the Air Medal and clusters for bravery in combat action. Captain Mohler was assigned to Andersen AFB, Guam as co-pilot of B-52 bomber Stratoforts with SAC. He returned re­cently to Glasgow AFB, Afontana. There b a possibility he may be assigned again to temporary overseas duty. 
ALLEN KORENJAK b completing work on a doctorate at Princeton thb year. He b also working at RCA in Princeton and has publbhcd several articles in engineering publications. WIL­LIAM F. FRY spent the past year in the graduate program of hospital adm. at Trinity U. in San Antonio. In August he will move to Pordand, Ore. with hb family of wife and two sons to begin his residency. JOHN BUTKOVICH writes that he and hb family have moved into a new home at 3550 Edgeview Dr. in Cincinnati. Ed is now working for Allis-Chahners. TOM RODGERS «dll graduate thb summer from U. of Colorado School of Medicine and will intern next year at 
U. of Washington in Seattle. 
Your Class secretary and the author of this colunm b completing hb first year of a tour of duty wt h the Army Judge Advocate General Corps. I have spent the past seven months at Ft. Bragg, NC and will be transferred to Ft. Mycr in Washington, DC this August. 
It b with the sad news of the death of one of our classmates, that we close thb column. Capt. PATRICK L. HALEY was serving as an Army helicopter pilot in Vietnam and was to complete h b active duty May 10. After he had volunteered for a spedal mission, I^t's helicopter was shot down in a fiery crash and he was reported mis^ng Aprn 20. Pat was buried in LaSaUe, III., April 
29. I am sure he will remain in our prayers. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
Feb. 10 TOM SCHNEIDER and mfe became parents of a son. Tom Is now a designer for 
r 
American Greetings Corp. in Cleveland. ART 
LANGE was married last Sept. to Susan Tarr in 
Portland, Ore. Classmate BARRY BURKE was 
one of the ushers. Both Art and Barry are in 
PhD programs at Stanford. MIKE DEL MONTE 
is a company comm. in the 3rd Ord. Bn. In 
Saigon. He is also the proud father of a son, 
Klichael Jr., bom last August, DICK TUSHLA 
graduates in June from the U of Neb. College 
of Medicine. He and wife Connie will move to 
Santa Clara County Hosp. in San Jose, Calif, 
where Dick will begin his internship. Mary I<ou 
and CHUCK HARTMAN became proud parents 
of a daughter, Katherinc Marie, bom May 6. 
Chuck is still working for Johnson & Johnson in 
Chicago. 
JOSEPH RADFORD JR. has joined the Peace 
Corps and Is assigned to the land management 
office in Majuro, District Center of the Klarshali 
Islands. He received his law degree from George 
Washington U Law School in 1966. 1ST LT. 
ROBERT W. FERREL is one of a group of 
highly experienced combat-ready pilots providing 
round-the^Iock aerial defense for the Ryukyu 
Islands area. 
1963 LAW 
JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN 
1526 E. CEDAR ST. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46617 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 
1100 CLOVE RD., NO. 5-C 
STATEN ISLAND, NY 10301 

1964 
Lt. JG BOB CATONE is stationed at Norfolk, 

Va. with the Navy. Early this year he returned 
from an eight-month cruise In the Mediterranean 

aboard the aircraft carrier USS Independence. 

His wife Gloria and nine-month-old son Steven 
are with him at Norfolk. 

PAUL TROST Is studying gco-chemistry at Colorado School of Mines graduate school. Paul 3er\'cd as a Lt. with the 1st Infantry Div. in Vietnam until last August. He received the Purple Heart and Bronze Star for Valor. MIKE BOHAN and his wife, the former Barbara Ducey moved into their new home in Lombard, 111. JIM FLAN.AGAN who just graduated from Pcnn Law School, was to be married this summer to Kathleen Ducey (Barbara's twin sister). 
PETE MURRAY was married to the former Carolyn PfafF (UNC '65) last Febmary. They are liWng In Atlanta where Pete is an economist for Delta Airiines. MIKE LUEA is at the U. of Michigan working on his master's degree In social work. Before returning to school he spent two years In Ecuador as a Peace Corps urban developer. Mike is married to the former Barbara Sibilsky. 
BOB SINGEWALD graduated from George Washington U. Law School this June. He was married to Marianne Doucet in April '66. MONTE KLOBERDANZ Is completing his MA in public relations at the U. of Iowa while work­ing part time for the Measurement Research Center as a public relations specialist. He writes that DICK MARKS Is working on his MA in English at lou-a and has proven to be the most successful fencing coach in the school's history. 
Capt. GENE CONNER is stationed at Ft. Meade, Md. after a tour with the 1st Infantry Div. He will be discharged later this year and will begin work on an MBA next January. 1st Lt. JOHN SCULLY is stationed in Saigon at the Vietnam Area Postal Directory. He will be rotated home this December. His wife Judy Is living in Riverside, 111. and teaching school there. JOHN ANTUS is a fourth-year medical student at George Washington U. Also a fourth-year student is MIKE STOCKER at Marquette U. School of Medicine. 
DICK MURPHY, his wife Jean and son Brian are li\ing In Hartford, Conn, where Dick works for .Aetna Life Insurance Co. in the actuarial dept. Brian was bom last November. GEORGE BRE.AULT was married to Judi Colueci Feb. '67. George received an &1S in pharmaceutical chem­istry from the U. of Rhode Island and is now working on his PhD at the U, of Michigan in the same field. 
DICK BONNEVILLE graduated from Harvard Business School this June and has accepted a job as assistant production mgr. for Strathmore Paper Corp. In Springfield, Afass. Dick's note mentions that he has seen WALT GAJDA (working on hU PhD at Mlt), JACK EBERLY and BILL CUSICK (recent graduates of Catholic U. Law) and BOB FANELLI (Fordham Law). BOB BURGFECHTEL has received his IkID degree 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
IN THE 
Congrats
NEWS 

Philip D. Shea Jr. '49 of Canoga Park, Calif. is now general sales manager of the western division of the Philip Carey Mfg. Co., Cin­cinnati building materials concern. He will headquarter at the company's new facility at 13711 Freeway Dr., Santa Fe Springs, Calif. 
John C. Walsh '49 has been elected treasurer of P. R. Mallory & Co. of Indianapolis. A member of the electronic components firm since 1950, Walsh held various financial posi­tions prior to his appointment as assistant treasurer of the corporation and treasurer of P. R. Mallory International Inc. in 1962. In his new position, he will assume expanded financial responsibilities and will continue as treasurer of P. R. Mallory International. 
Edward M. Mahoney '52 has been promoted to vice-president for sales administration for Financial Programs, Inc., a Denver-based mutual fund organization. Mahoney joined the firm in 1955 as secretary and was named vice-president for corporate operations in 1965. He now heads the sales administra­tion department for the company which serves 100,000 shareholders around the world and has assets in excess of $375 millicm. 
Richard F. Welter '53L will serve as staff advisor to the vice-president of US Chemi­cals and coordinate industrial and personnel activities in his new position as industrial relations director. The company is a division of Gulf Oil and Welter is working in the US operating headquarters in Houston. 
Richard H. Miller '54 will follow in the foot­steps of his father in his new job as presi­dent of Cleveland Broadcasting 'Inc. which owns six radio stations in Cleveland, San­dusky and Los Angeles. Dick is also man­aging partner of the Cleveland law firm of Miller and Miller, past president of the ND Club of Cleveland, president of Searles Lake Chemical Corp. and an officer and director of eight other companies. 
Robert S. Bums '59 is the new general man­ager of the Sarasota County Chamber of Commerce in Florida. He Im the assistant manager's post in the St. Petersburg Area Chamber of Commerce for his new job. Bums had been with the St. Pete Chamber since 1961 and has also had experience as a newspaperman. 
V. 
It. Charies R. Ginder '63 received 
the Army's Bronze Star Medal 
ND MEN SERVING THEIR 
for heroism in combat in 
Up Front I 

COUNTRY AROUND THE WORLD 
Vietnam March 24. While on 
Major Frank B. Harrison '50 
didn't expect to adopt a "twin 
brother" when he was assigned to 
Vietnam duty. 
However, since his assignment at Bien Hoa AB, Major Harrison has worked so closely with the Viet­namese Air Force (VNAF) that he has all but assumed a idnship with his Vietnamese counterparts flying the A-1 SkjTaider. 
The major, a member of the US Air Force Advisory Group, sissists the already highly profes­
HARRISON AND 'TWIN* 

sional Vietnamese pilots in im­proving their combat tactics while 1956. The VNAF has grown un­flying the single-engine attack air­der \vartime conditions from a craft small transport and liaison unit to 
USAF advisors have assisted the a dedicated combat air force that VNAF on matters pertaining to flies strike, airlift, rescue and re­flight operations, personnel, logis­connaissance suppor t for US, tics, supply and maintenance since Vietnamese and allied forces. 
from the U. of Io%%-a and will move to Flint, 
Mich, to intern at Hurley Hosp. 
JOHN HARGROVE «-ill marry the former 

JANE ANN NAGLE SMC '67 Oct. 21. He has 
just finished N D Law School and will enter the 
Alarine Corps JAG program in November '67. 
JOHN M. LALLI has just returned home after 
a year as an intelligence ofiicer in Vietnam. He 
won the Bronze Star, Army Commendation 
Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with two battle 
stars and a Vietnamese campaign medal. John 
is working for the New York Telephone Co. as 
an accounting manager. He, his wife and 11­
month>old son Johnny Jr. have just bought a 
new house in Englishtown, NJ. 
TOM GOWHL was married to the former Judy 

Fortier of Chicago in June, 1966. He is presently 
working on a PhD in biochemistry at Wayne 
State U. in Detroit and has recently received a 
NASA fellowship. BILL LEWIS was stationed in 
San Diego on board the USS Polk County as a 
supply officer. After spending six months in 
Hawaii and six months in Vietnam he returned 
to the US and was married to the former Anne 
Harvey SMC '65. GENE KOSTER '64 and 
JACK JOYCE '64 wicre in the wedding. Bill and 
his wife are now lix-ing in Rockford, III. where 
he is working for Sundstrand Anation of Rockford 
in the Automation Systems Designing div. 
BILL MEEKER is presently a LtJG aboard the USS Alataco, a salvage tug, as di\'ing ofiicer on patrol off Vietnam. Bill and his wife, the former 
JAXfES P. HARNISCH 71 POLAND MANOR POLAND, OHIO 44514 

Ii63 
ERNIE AUD, PHIL TRIPPEL and DICK DARKO are studying law at Indiana U. School of Law and all are members of Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity. Dick has been appointed to the editorial bd. of the law journal and Ernie was married in January to Sandy Brock (U. of Ken­tucky '65). LEN SERAPHIN* \%-as married in June to Susan Hopp of Aurora, III. Len is in his last year at Northwestern U. School of Law. 
PAUL RAY was married in Detroit to &fary Ann Rosswurm and is lixing in Arlington, Va. where he is stationed in the US Navy Special Projects Office. L/Lt. NEWTON LESH is serv­ing in Vietnam as a recon. platoon leader in the llth Armored Cav. Regiment. Newt has been there since November. Lt. JOHN "SKIP" SCOTT was married in August to Judy Sandberg of Padfica, Calif, at ND. Skip is serving as deputy procurement officer at Sioux City AB, Iowa. Skip reports CARL SORRENTINO, FRED ZOGHETTI and BILL O'NEILL have all com­pleted Air InteUigence School at LouTy AFB. 
Beth Higgins, became parents of a daughter, Maiy 
Regan, Feb. 5. Lt. DANIEL R. BAHtLEY has 
recently completed engineering OCS at Ft. Bcl­
voir, Va. and is on his way to Southeast Asia 
for a tour of duty. Prior to this he woriced for 
a South Bend architectural firm. 
TONY STRATI is working for a public ac­
counting firm. Peat Afarwick and Mitchell and 
Co., in Chicago. He and his wife, Helena, have 
a daughter, Kristina, and are living in Addison, 
111. LtJG RON GILLES is completing his thud year in the Navy and is stationed at the Fleet Anti-Air Warfare Training Center in San Diego. He was recently engaged to Pat Lane of San Diego and they have planned a December wedding. 
In July of 1965 TOM FOX vras married to Claire Aithen in Grand Rapids, Mich. He re­ceived his MBA at the U. of Michigan and 'is working at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York. In March 1966 Tom and his wife became parents of a baby girl. MICHAEL SENG has just been graduated from the ND Law School and was a staff member on the ND Law Review, He spent last siunmcr in Mississippi working on various legal matters with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. This past winter he has been one of Father Murphy's student prefects in Alumni Hall. Michael will be in Portland, Ore. next year to serve as a law clerk for John F. Kilkenny, US District Court Judge. 
JOHN W. COOK graduated from the US 
SEAN FrrZMAURICE has been seemg a lot of action vnth the New York Mets. JOHN DEE and wife Margot SMC '66 had their first chiU, John HI, in April. John completed his tour with the USMC and is now a trainee with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fcnner & Smith and lives in New Yoric City. JIM CONLON was married last December to Anne McCarthy and is in the man­agement trainee program at Sears Roebuck & Co. in Pk-ovidcncc, RI. Jim is in the Coast Guard Reserve. 
Lt. THOMAS FELLRATH was married in August 1966 to Ann Tritschler SMC '65 of Cleveland. Tom is stationed at Ft. Lee, Va. Ens. DICK KfURRAY has returned from a seven-month around-the-world cruise on a de­stroyer and is now stationed in Newport, RI. Dick has one son, Dick Jr., who is a year old. Lt. JOHN ROBB is serving with the Army in Saigon. 
DORAN MULLEN received his MBA fnm Boston U. in June. JACK O'SHEA has recoved his MBA in management from NYU and is now employed by Chase Xfanhattan Bank in NYC. TOM CIHAK's wife. Barb, gave birth to a son last December. Tom is working in NYC. for a 
a search and destroy mission Sept. 3, 1966 Lt. Cinder's company of the 101st Airborne Division came under intense fire from a well-en­trenched Viet Cong force. The lieutenant immediately called in an air strike on the hostile positions and led his platoon in a flanking attack across 200 yards of open rice paddies. 
Lt. Cinder repeatedly exposed himself to enemy fire while direct­ing and maneuvering his men. His aggressive attack forced the insur­gents to \vithdraw and inflicted numerous casualties. 
Executive ofiicer of Company B, 1st Battalion of the division's 327th Infantry, Lt. Cinder began active duty in March, 1964 and was stationed at Ft. Monmouth, 
N.J. before his arrival in Viet­nam in August, 1966. 

Naval Supply Corps School in Athens, Ga. in May. Shortly after he was married to Ann Kics­ling, a 1965 graduate of the Holy Cross School of Nursing. John is now aboard the USS Walworth County out of Little Creek, Va. as a supply officer. GEORGE ZIMMERMAN com­pleted his stay in the Army in Oct. '66. He now lives in Berwyn, III. and is employed by Reynolds Aluminum. 
Please use the yellow card on page 30 to send me more news. 
1964 LAW 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY ONE NORTH LASALLE ST. CHICAGO, ILL. 60602 

You did it again. The only mail your faithful scribe received was that from two sets of ex­tremely proud new parents. Charles Stephen arrived at the CHARLES SACHER household on June 3, and weighed in at nine pounds, nine and a half ounces. Fullback, Class of '89. And the HURLEY SMITHs announce with glee the adop­tion of Jennifer Laurie. At the rate things arc happening on the Campus, cheerleader. Class of '89. 
Now, for the rest of you non-writing beings who have no bundles of joy to tell the world about, PLEASE use the yellow postcard youMi find tucked in on page 30 of this issue and send this boy some material for future columns. 
large ins. co. JOE HRUSCHAK is the father of a daughter, Kristin, bom in August, 1966. After getting off active duty with the Army re­serves last December, JIM FISH is now working as asst. promotion dir. at Select Magazines, a magazine distribution co. 
LT/JG HARRY BISHOP b stationed at the Nuclear Weapons Training Center, Pacific area, and is taking night coiurses in business at San Diego State. Previously Harry had served a year on an LST operating off the coast of Vietnam. Lt. DAVE DONOVAN is serving in Pleiku, Vietnam with the USA Quartermaster Corps. Dave reports that CHARLIE SLACK is in the finance dept. at Ft. Devens and that Lt. JIM LAKE is in the transportation command in Hawaii and Lt. BOB HORN USMC is in supply at Da Nang, Vietnam. BOB DILENSCHNEIDER is in basic training at Ft. Knox with the Army Reserves. 
JOHN DUNN was married in July to Sigrid Daffner and honeymooned in Germany. John is in the last year at George Washington Law School^ in Washington, DC. He is also working part time at Neighborhood Legal Services, gi\'ing legal representation to the poor. JOHN AUSANKA 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

Capt. Gerald A. Baugh '59 re­ceived personal recognition from the Vietnamese government for his aid to the local villagers in the Can Tho Province. 
Dr. Baugh was presented a letter commending him for his work as a surgeon with a US Air Force medi­cal team at the Can Tho Provincial Hospital. 
The team, working with Ameri­can and Vietnamese civilian doc­tors and nurses, often put in 12 hours or more a day, assisting in surgical operations, providin g emergency treatment for the in­jured and wounded, or just hold­ing routine sick calls for as many as 300 people a day. 
Dr. Baugh received his MD de­gree from Johns Hopkins in 1963. Prior to entering the Air Force he was resident surgeon at the Tulane University Medical School in New Orleans. 
n-as married in April to Edwtna Berlin of New Britain, Conn. JOHN SULLIVAN was also married in April to Carrie Vencziano and lives now in Newington, Conn. 
LT/JG PAUL MCCARTHY was married to Eileen Tiemeycr of St. Louis. Paul is stationed at the Na\'al Inshore Operations Training Center at Mare Island, Calif. Ens. TIM O'SHAUGH­NESSY was married in April to Sheila Fisher of Chicago who is also a Navy officer. Tim bas attended UXG graduate school. Navy CCS and anti-submarine warfare school. 
LT/JG TOM McGINLEY is the father of a daughter, Kelly Ann, bom in March. Tom is serving on the USS Hugh Purvis in the Mediter­ranean. ED FANNING and his wife, Joyce, had their second daughter, Patricia Ann, in Jimc. Their fiist daughter, Mary Kay, was bom in May 1966. 
CH.ARLIE HAZZARD has received his MBA from Wharton Graduate School and is working at Ford Motor Co. in Michigan. TOM FOLEY is in the Peace Corps in Antofagasta, Chile teach­ing civil engineering in the Universidad del Norte. TIM MURPHY, D.\VE HOUK and ALAN BONN arc contributing some of the Fighting Irish flavor to the curriculum of the USC grad. school of business ad. Tim is working during the day at the Calif. State Bd. of Equalization and Davj works days at the NBC-TV studios. 
WLL HOMBURG was married in August 1965 tof Helen Johnson and is now in his last year at 
U. of Houston Law School. Bill is also in a train­ing program with Strachan Shipping Go. in Houston. He reports that JOHN BORDA is in grad. school at the U. of Toronto and that BILL CAVANAUGH is working with Dow-Coming in Midland, Mich. 
Lt. MIKE SCHMID will take a trip to Europe with his wife, Annctti, upon returning from Vietnam. Mike then plans to work for IBM in South Bend next June. After having been released from active duty, LT/JG PAUL JOCK was married in September to Gail Webre (Loyola U. of the South). Paul is now working on a PhD at the U. of Chicago Law School. 
We need to hear more news of classmates. Why don't YOU use the yellow card on page 30? 
I'd like to take the opportunity in this column to announce the August marriages of t^vo close friends: DICK ANGELOTTI '66 .ind Carol Fla­herty SMC '66. Dick writes the Class of '66 article for the ALUMNUS and is a second-year law student. His lovely wife is teaching school in Chicago. I wish the best of everything to this fine couple. 
RICHARD ANGELOrn 8640 SOinn 8GTH AVE^ AFT. 218 
JUSTICE, ILL. e04 » 

1S6S 
Another N D football season is almost upoo « and I'm sure we're all hopiz^ that the Insh ol '67 have the hind of stKcess that last yeai^s champions did. The prospects certainly show tius to be a potentially great N D team. There will be a class reunion for our Class at the CaEfomia game Sept. 23. This is the season opener. The exact time and pbcc will be announced during the game. The weather should be nice-and we're hoping for a large turnout from you '66ers. It should be a great opportunity for'all of ns to get together again. 
The big news again this month is the Est of achievements and commisaons of members of our Class in the military field. TOM LOFTIS. vdio is getting manicd this month, was conuu^ooed a 2nd Lt. in the Marine Corps and is now at Civil Affairs School at Fort Gordon, Ga. 2Dd Lt. BOB SCHWARTZ has completed a 16-week heli­copter pilot course at the Army Primary Heli­copter School, Ft. Woltezs, Tex. DENNIS SAUTER and NICK RASSAS have recently com­pleted courses, also. Dennis has finished ^h t weeks of advanced infantry training at Ft. Mc-ClcIIan, Ala. £x-AII Amciican Nidc completed a four-week course at Ft. Jackson, SG. 
TOM RYAN has arrived for chity at Bolting Air Force Base, Washington, DC. WILLIAM L. SCHAEFER JR., HOWARD A. YORK JR., EL­WOOD KENT, JOHN KUMINECZ, DELFIN SALAZAR and JOHN LINDSAY have been com­missioned in the USAF after graduating from OTS at Lackland AFB. Pvt. DAVID SULLIVAN has completed advanced infantry at Ft. Lewis, Wash. JOHN CLIFFORD was commissioned an Army 2nd Lt. upon graduation from Transportation OCS at Ft. Eustis, Va. JOHN ROBB was promoted to Army 1st Lt. tn Vietnam where he is asngned OS exec. o£Bcer of HQ Co., First Anation Brigade. CHARLEY MCLAUGHLIN is in Kassel, Ger­many with the Army Security Agency. He will be there until July, 1968 and he welcomes nnts from any N D '66crs touring Germany. 
JOE JANSEN is currently at Sheppard AFB, Texas attending the accounting and finance offi­cers' course. Aug. 22 he Mras to return to Hollo­man AFB, NM where he was first commissioned. Joe and his lovely wife, JoAnn, are expecting a first child in November. JOHN CAVAN is cmw rcntly ranked No. 1 academically in lus platoon at Ft. Lee, Va. John is planning an Oct. 7 wedding. HONORATO MEDINA is probably enjoying the ser\^cc the most. He is the exec officer of Co. L in the School Brigade at Ft. Monmouth, NJ and enjoying the xesort area and especially Jlonmouth I^k. 
ND men arc mnning fame in other fidd^ abo. Detroltcrs ^vere treated to a unique sports car show which was the idea of GARY W. KOHS. He was managing director of one of the largest shou-s of its kind ever held in the US* 
ROGER PARENT is tcachmg asustaUE id the Dept. of Education at ND, has been selected exec, director of the Neighborhood Study Help Program, 
JOHN CHESIRE criticized the American pacifists for their "retreat from the world" in the June 17 issue of Ave Maria, John plans to found an association of pacifists and "peaceful re­sisters" to find some way to apply the peaceful re­sistance techniques of Mahatma Gandhi. He be­lieves pacifists have wrongly given the American people the impression they universally condemn the nation's attempts to protect itself and live up to its commitments. "Ches" plaimed to move to NYC to raise financial support for his organization. 
JOSEPH DOLD JR. is presently living in Sycamore, HI. working for the Anacoiida Co. His second son, Joseph HI, was bom last September. DENNIS LAHEY has been appointed marketii^ assistant at Mead Johnson. THOMAS MELESKY and WILLIAM J. KELLEY arc presently in the Peace Corps—Tom in El Salvador in Central America and Bill in Chile living with the &bpu­choy Indians. 
Two cx-ND star athletes in the news are ARUNAS VASYS, who has signed for lus second season as a linebacker for the Philadelphia Eagles and "BUCKY" McGANN who resigned as ND's freshman basketball coach to become dir. of re ^ reation at Riviera Beach, Fla., near his hcnne town of W. Pahn Beach. 
wo^aff ac m ramimttr i min Lmaber Co. m Erie, Vk, and JO^MMLtXr. win finish op hn anstcf's is uu«u—ici wtt.Cmm^.. Wcscem Koenre startiag ia Stfttwbtr*'--" -\:..''"­
•mi NEWMAN writes frba iBmm Jktn im win be attemfiiic U. of Uu n Inr Schnl • tke f>IL He invhei all tGen aUtmSag Hm VDr , ilSaai giBe'to look Km up. 
We wen gicadr gaend Iqr A * dca&: af Jowph F. Jobn «dio puKd ann, iiHrrii - • • Mqr 5. Mr. Jaba was the btkr d oat dMH mate, JOE JOHN, who a cnnaidr canlni at Western Koc m Mofieal SdiooL Ileaie icaaabcr Um ia your pnyen. Mr. Johm wai n ^ Bied by :dl Joe's ffawimtn ndio had Ae |ili—it di meetiny him. 
JOE JACKOWICZ writes Oat he becaae m pnnal fiither for the fint time ia carir htr-Jack is in the management tiaimns |«ijgnu» with Seats m Gary, hd . MK E HOUK hat icccMlr annonnced his engagement. Mike was pracat at MK E MOONEVs wedifing, with other 'CSen BfATT DWYER, FRANK MOLLET, TOM CAS­SIDY, BOB SULLIVAN, VINIE EBNER and LARRY DOYLE. 
JIM GALLAGHER, who irin be staitiig his second year at Georgetown Law School in the fall, was married Jme 17 in Rockville Centre, NY. His best man was CHARLIE McAULIFFE and other ND men there were PAin. COOGAN, TERRY UAHONY, MK E KRACH, TOM Mc-GUIRE, BRIAN CONNELLY, KEVIN CON­WAY. DAVE TOOHY and MK E RIESERT. Jnn almost didn't make it to the cfanrch after the fantastic stag party he had off Long Beach. I hear he's still hunting for JACK STUTZ and MK E KRACH. 
Speaking of weddiies, I would Eke to ooament on my o¥m which tock place Jnly 29 at Sacied Heart Church on the Campos ot ND to BCss Carol Flaherty SMC '66. The wed£ng was pre­ceded by a reheanal diimer at the Morris Inn and foDowed by a reception at the Lincoh Bgh­way Inn. Rev. Daniel O'Nefl was the cddirant. It was a maivelons day which I shall never Ibiget and the start of a married Efe which I coold not wait to commence and which I shall cherish and treasure forever. I want to thank all the 'G6en who were present at the wedding. Carol and I axe presently honeymooning in Nassau. We win return via the East Coast and end iq> in Chio^o where Carol win be a thirdfrade teacher in Western Springs and I win be stalling nqr second year at Loyola Law SchooL 
I hope you an ynU take advantage of the yel­low information caids enclosed in this issoe on page 30 to let me know what you're op to. Your response so far has been great. Bease keep np the good woifc. 
1966 lAW 
FRANK GREGORY 7«B KEYSTONE LANE FORESTVnXE, MD. ZOIBS 

I am pleased to report that BCsi Ann Knth Brodie has changed her name to Mis. NORMAN MANDEL. The wedding took place in Tore Haute June 19. Mazeltov! 
RAY STARMANN has been permanently as­signed to the Anny InteQ^fence Center at Fort Holabixd, Baltimore, Md. In preparation ,for family expansion, BOB KRAUSE has pmehased a new himie in Detroit. He's aU set to move in quickly. 
BOB SCHMIEGE and TOM WARD have again been fzequent viators to Washington. Bob is stifl deep in the midst of railroad labor problems and Tom b being instructed by the drug industry on the fine art of finessing an evei^ixicxeanng flow of federal regulation. 
With the footban season coming np, it is to be hoped many of ns will be able to get together at ND. The law lounge after the game offers a convenient meeting place. JDf ANTHONY, TOM BRUNNER and STEVE SEALL are xcai£i« in South Bend and would, I am sore, be hxppf to coordinate information on vdio'a in tcnm Cor tiie various games. 
Class information cards have again been in­serted in this issue on page 30. Use them to keep me posted on personal infonnatioo, eyccJally addresses. Drop me a line if yoa get to Sooth Bend to watdi the Irish. 
ED CALIOR is presently working as a lake 
1965 LAW JOHN I. HUGHES 
patrolman this summer. Ed will return io Pitts­
99 W. 37th ST. 
JOHN A. HAUTER 

burgh U. Law School in September where he *rill BAYONNE, NJ . 0700Z 
1030 INDIANA AVE. 

1S87 
commence his second year. JOSEPH SPAK is 
GLENWOOD, ILL. 60425 

ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
COOPERATIVE EFFORT IN MIAMI* 
Clubs 

PREVIEW OF NOV. 24 FESTIVITIES Then on to the Bahamas? 
SOUTHERN FOOTBALL WINDUP 
UoTRE DAME clubs of Atlanta and ** Miami have the stuff a football fan's dreams are made of. For months they've been working on plans which will wind up the 1967 grid season in grand style. Many Alumni are plan­ning to take in both the last two games, Georgia Tech Nov. 18 and Miami Nov. 24, in two of the South's most fun cities. 
In Atlanta, James A. Eichelberger and Dr. Robert F. Hochman, co-chairmen, have set up Irish headquar­ters at the spectacular new Regency Hyatt House. They have obtained a block of 200 rooms at the hotel which has attracted much attention for its unique architectural design. 
Their weekend program starts with luncheon Friday, Nov. 17, to be fol­lowed by a pep rally and cocktail party that night. Saturday there will be a buffet before chartered buses de­part for the game at Grant Field. After-game festivities will include cocktails, dinner and dancing Satur­day night and Mass to be celebrated by Archbishop Paul Hallinan Sunday morning. To wind up the weekend's fellowship there will be a brunch fol­lowing Mass. Atlanta ND Special. A package plan worked out exclusively for ND alumni includes guaranteed room accommo­dations for Friday and Saturday nights; bus service to and from the game; and the luncheon, pep rally, cocktail parties, dirmer dance and brunch, all at the Regency. The cost for the package deal will be $65 each or $105 for two people who will share a twin or double-bed room. Each per­son must obtain his own ticket for the football game. 
When "reservations exhaust the Club's block of rooms at the.R^ency, other fans will have to book their own accommodations at other hotels and motels. They may, however, join the ND crowd at the Regency for all food functions, entertainment and the bus ride for the cost of $26.50 for each person. 
Room reservations for the com­plete package must be made by Nov. 
1. Requests should be sent to the Notre Dame Alumni Club, Suite 515, 66 Luckie St. NW, Atianta, Georgia 30303. The telephone number is 525-6397. No Letdown in Miami. Pre-season re­ports are touting the ND-Miami game as THE match of the season and the ND Club of Miami is prepared for all those who like their football with­out overcoats. Club Pres. John Thorn­ton and VP Bill Mazanec, football weekend chairman, have gotten things lined up. 
Thanksgiving evening the festivities will get under way with the pep rally which will include music, entertain­ment, cocktails, dancing, guest speak­ers and — hopefully — cheerleaders. Admission fee will be $1 per person. 
Friday night there will be air-con­ditioned buses to and from the re­cendy remodeled Orange Bowl and the fare will be $1.50 per person. After the game there will be no letdown. Saturday there'll be a "Fighting Irish" feature at Tropical Park to culminate ND Day at the Races. Sunday Charlie Callahan, Danny Thomas and Joe Robbie promise a wingding of a pro football game between die Miami Dolphins and the Buffalo Bills. 
The Deauville Hotel, at 67th and Collins Ave., Miami Beach, is holding 300 rooms in the name of the A'lis.mi Club. Costs will be $15 per day ($7.50 per person) European plan or $23 
'Planners for the ND-Miami Game weekend include Mike Zarowny, president of the Dade County Chamber of CommcFce sports committee; John Thornton, president of ND Club of Greater Miami; Citv of Miami Mayor Robert King High; Wm. J. Mazanec, first VP of ND Club; and Ted Hendricks, &fiami defensive end. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1957 OaOBER 
HCXHAUN and EICHELBERGER 

per day ($11.50 p»er person) modified American plan. For reservations, write directly to the hotel asking for one of "the Notre Dame Club of Miami special rooms." 
For rally tickets and/or game ticket reservations and the bus trip to and from the game, contact L. Nick Muel­haupt, Club secretary, 405 N. Hibiscus Dr., Apt. 201, Miami Beach, Fla. 33139. Make A Date. For convenience and inspiration we offer the following calendar to tempt you, your wife and your savings account: Nov. 11—^Football at Pittsburgh Nov. 17—^Luncheon, Pep Rally and 
Cocktail Party at Atlanta's 

Regency Hyatt House Nov. 18—^Football at Georgia Tech Cocktails, Dinner, Dancing at Regency Nov. 19—Mass in Regency Ballroom 
Brunch in Phoenix 

Room at Regency Nov. 23—Rally at Deauville Hotel Nov. 24—Football at Miami Nov. 25—^ND Day at the Races Nov. 26—Miami Dolphins vs. 
Buffalo Bills Nov. 27—Would you believe on to the Bahamas? 
Speak of the Devil? 
"It just happened out of the blue," according to Vince McAloon '34, Notre Dame's official host in Rome. 
He reported that one day this sum­mer, while he was sitting in the Scoglio Di Frisio restaurant next to the ND Center, in walked Duffy Dougherty. The famous coach of ND's archfoes asked McAloon if he were connected with the ND Hospital­ity Center. 
One thing led to another—McAlooa didn't say just what—but the next day Duffy, his wife and daughter paid an official visit to the Center. The coach signed the guest book and with pencil still in hand corrected a score 
s ATLANTA 

ND AU-Americans NICK EDDY and JIM LYNCH were honored by the Club at a recep­tion in the Regency Hyatt House July 5. The affair, in connection witb the Coaches' AU-Ameri* can Game, was organized by Cfaainnan JERRY KIEFER, LOU LONCARIC and TOM GUN­NING. 
The annual buaness meetins of the Ctnb was April 17 at the Carting Brewery. Clidi offi­cers are hoping to establish a scholarship fuad for the Atlanta area and they plan to promote social events to encourage atliletes and schobus to attend ND. Recently an informal breakfast honored John McHale's signing **a letter of in­tent" to play football for the Irish. 
The big deal for the Club at this time ii planning the ND-Geoigia Tech wedend. A complete story is to be found ebewbeie in this ALOIINUS. 
BALTIMORE 

An active and successful year completed under the administration of Pies. JIM MUTSCHLER, the Club hit a high point on UND Night with guest speaker JIM ARMSTRONG, past exec secy. of Alumni Assoc., receiving Baltimore's '*Alan of the Year" Award in recognition of his service to the Alumni over the world. In a surprise move, JIM MURRAY JR. became the first redinent of the James E. Armstrong Alumni Award, to be presented each year in honor of Jim Ann-strong. The reins of the Qub have been turned over to RAY BENDER '60, pres.; DONN DUFFY, '55, vp; TONY MILETO '61, sec; DENNIS O'BRIEN, treas. 
First duties were presentation of Baltimore Club Awards to five high school seniors: David Gillece, Calvert Hall Col. HS; Jeffrey Gunther, Loyola HS; James E. Coolahan, Mt. St. Joseph CoL HS; Daniel Rochowiak, Archbishop Curley HS; Patrick Finnegan, Cardinal Gibbons HS. 
The Freshman Send-Off Party in August is to be followed by the 1967-68 Kick-Off meeting in September. Plans are also being made for a Club trip to the ND-Ktt game in the fall. 
Names in the news: GERRY GRAY '62, "Youns Educator of the Year" in Harford Co., Md.; JOSEPH DUKERT, Md. State Republican chair­man; JIM MUTSCHELLER, NBC-TV sports com­mentator for Baltimore Colts; JOE BRIDE '58, public relations director, Baltimore Orioles Baseball. 
—TONY MILETO, Secretary 

^^ ^ CENTRAL JERSEY 
HOWARD GILLESPIE of Mountainside has been elected pres. of the Club. He succeeds JACK R. MULLEN '53 of Piscataway, who became a director. Gillespie, a 1934 graduate, is a sales representative for Patterson Mack district of Mack Trucks. He lives at 282 Garrett Rd. 
Other officers include NORRIS HARDING '57 of New Brunswick, vp; DAVID COLLINS '56 of Westfield, secretary; JOHN HOBLITZEL '55 of Westfield, treas.; and RICHARD CONNELLY '55 of Plainficid, publicity director. 
Other newly appointed Club directors include JOHN LISICKI '31 of F^rth Amboy and WIL­LIAM MULLER '55 of S. Plainfield. The Club is oompoied of 300 ahmni Gnag in die ceelral 
New Jersey area. 
The CUb has set iq> m full ichedole of •— ••f and activities for the roniing year. Tlw —1--1 freshman lendoS was Aug. 24 at the T»A Boti in Fhinfield. Howaid Gillrspir is invcsligaling a' poaoble joint cocktail party widi die New Jeiser iHuuue Ahinini Chib the Friday cvennis. beCote the ND-PU game Sept. 30. _ 
- The Cfaib's animal Communion Breakfint ii scheduled for Dec 10 at Saint Beter's Bnp. Chapd in New Brunswick. Rev. Victor YanatdE, pce^deat of Saint Fitter's CoL in Jcney iStf, win be the gncst speaker. Dave CdEns and DAViS GIBBONS '64 will handle ami«ements. 
The annual ND-NYU basketball game, this ye v hopefiilly in the new Madison Square Garden, will be attended by a graup bom the Cliib wiA a dinner to precede in New Yorit Cty. Olber arrangements in the woiks involve UND Ni ^ in April and a gtdf noting in June. TUs past golf outing was won by Dave Collilis who shot n 97 and, under the caBoway system of hanrfirap^ shot an 11 on the last huAe to give him a net 71 for the day and low net honors. Thoae playing with Dave contended it was an honest 11; how­ever. Club trustees may call upon District Attor­ney Jim Garrison to head up an investigation. 
—DICK CONNELLY, PtabEdty Directnc 
CHICAGO 

As of June 13 there were lOOt paid membershiqps in the Club, 80 ahead of last year. The golf ant­ing Aug. 7 at Ehnhnrst Country Club was oigaa­ized by KEN SCHUSTER. Heading the coo­mittee for the freshman reception this year B TOM HAYES and the Rockne Award IKnaer chaiiman will be MARIO TONELLL 
^^^ ^ GNONNATI ^^^^ 
New officers for 1967-68 are BILL E. BUKKE '54, preadent; JOHN T. MOKRISSEY, vp; MK E L. MORRISSEY, treas.; and LARRY KYTE '60, secretary. 
The Club will have its animal Freshman FSemc on the first Tuesday in September along with the football raflle. DREW BARTON, as chaiiman of the golf outing, threw another highly sacccssfal affair. 
It has also been announced that Rev. K. C. Sullivan OP has been appointed chaplain of the Club. AD know that his religions guidance vnS aid to the sinritual strength of the Club. 
-MIKE MORRISSEY, Treasorer 
OEVBAND 

GEORGE KERVER '22 has announced that the second Husband and Wfe Retreat will be Oct. 26-28 and will conclude just in time for the ND­Midi«an Sute football game. All retreatanis must furnish their own football tickets. 
We inge everyone to attend the Fall Buraiess Meeting Aug. 29. At this meeting, the Clnb win welcome the incoming freshmen and their parents, and a special freshman orientation pn>* gram is being prepared by JOHN CROWE '62 of the ND Foundadon Office 
Congratuladons to our newly elected prendent, RICHARD A. VAN AUKEN '57. Dick, who is a graduate of the College of Engineering, is mar-
posted on the wall which read "Mich­ DUFFY DOUGHERTY and VINCE McALOON  
igan" instead of "Michigan State."  Spartan guest in andent Rome.  
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER  

ried to the former Ann AfcPolin of Cleveland and is the father of three children. He was recently made a partner in the firm of Dalton-Dalton Associates, one of the largest interna­tional architect, engineer and planning firms in the world. Dick also is on the hoard of govern nois for St. Ignatius HS, the President's Advisory Coundl of the Board of Trustees at Ashland (Ohio) Col. and past Cub Scout Director at St. Dominic's Parish in Shaker Heights. Even with hh busy schedule and his work which takes him around the u*orld, Dick plans an aggressive bus­ness and social calendar for the Cleveland Alumni this year. 
Belated congratulations arc in order for JAAfES 

J. FLANNERY *60, College of Commerce. Jim was elected to his first public office in November, 1966 as a state representative from the 48th dis­trict of Ohio. He is a partner in the CPA firm of Maurer, Boccker & Ccrio. Married to the former Judy Haluscsak, Jim is the father of five children. As with most young men in political life, Jim is active in many organizations including the board of directors of St. Coleman Credit Union; board of directors of the N D Club of Clei'cland; executive committee of the Cuyahoga Democratic Party, Ohio; and the Society of CPA's. Although a freshman legislator, Jim has been cited 
as an aggressive, forthright and hardworking representative. —JOHN P. COYNE, Secretary 
= DALLAS-FORT WORTH' 

The Club's summer party for families was July 22 at Vickery Park. PAUL UNDERKOFLER, as chairman, was assisted by TERRY MURPHY and JIM DENIG. Sports and amusement rides headed the activities for members and their guests. 
i DEARBORN 

Something new for summer fun wns added this year when members attended the Meadow Brook Xlusic Festival at Oakland U. in Rochester, Mich. The group bought *Mawn" tickets to hear pianist Van Clibum and violinist Gordon Staples. Drinks and sandwiches in the lawn scats preceded the program. 
DECATUR, ILL.' 

Decatur is consumed by continuous motion. NICK NEIERS appointed JOHN DUNN to join in the Alumni Senate meeting at ND May 5. BERNARD MARTY organized an ND outing at the Country Club of Decatur, which provided a similar gather­ing for Illini Alumni. It afforded a preview to the lUinois-ND game. The Nciers and Dunns are steeped in a beat-the-heat family outing. 
JOE DONA VAN is the director of our second annual alumni trip. His expertise included a CahiU Negotiation, a Trailwa^-s Contract, restau­rant reservations and 39 audible fans. It's "Cali­fornia or Bust." JOHN DUNN and JOHN HIRSCHFELD, Champaign, III., have roped off a block of 200 tickets for the IIlinois-ND game. 
This is the Club's tenth anniversay and it is enjoying its maximum momentum. Our annual meeting is being organized by NICK. NEIERS for Oct. 5. 
—STEPHEN G. GRALIKER '42, Secretary 
DETROIT 

The ND golf party July 25 was arranged by AflKE VOSS, ART SHANNON and BOB BAER. At­tending the event at the Farmington Country Club were Rev. CLARENCE P. DURBIN, N D golf coach; BOB CAHILL, ticl:ct chairman; DICK RUWE, Foundation representative; and assistant football coaches JOHN RAY, Paul Shoults and Tom Fagna. 
A picnic was planned for August to be followed by the annual ND KickOff Party. —inCHAEL K. HEGARTY, Seoxjfary 
ERIE = 

As the deadline for this column approaches, we here in Erie are finalizing our plans for our annua] summer picnic Among those who will attend are these men and their wives: JOSEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT BARBER '40, THOMAS BATES '60, LEO BRUGGER SR. '34, LEO BRUGGER JR. '61, DONALD BUSECK '50, HOWARD ESSICK '41, WILLLVM GRANT '45, EDWARD KERN '56, HERBERT KERN '54, JAMES MAHONEY '51, JOHN McCORMICK JR. '53, RICHARD McCORMICK '55, TIMOTHY Mc­COR&flCK '57, LEWIS SHIOLENO '49, JOHN SITTERLE '60, JOSEPH STABLER '53, RON­ALD VOMERO '65, ROBERT WESCHLER. 
CONERTY, CARROLL, POWERS, ORSO McHenry County officers plan gome trip 
CHARLES WILLMANN '33, JOHN YOimG '51, 
ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI '52, FRANK RILEY, 
HOOT SCULLY, C. KENNETH CLAUNCH and 
FRED STRASSER. 
Everyone here in Eiie is looking forward to going 

to ND for the 1967 football games. As in the 
past Eric is wiell represented with Mike McCoy 
doing a fine job for the Irish during the spring 
practice. We hope he will be a regular on Aia's 
starting team. 
The McCormicks are enjoying their cottage at 

Avonia. It seems they have a waiting line and 
reservations are now accepted but only the months 
of December and January are available at this 
date. 
JOE BLAKE '61 was in Erie for a few days 

on his way to Detroit for his summer work. Joe 
is presendy studying for the priesthood in Wash­
ington, DC. When ordained he will be a CSC 
and we all hope he will be stationed at ND. 
The JAMES EHRMANs '61, wrere in Erie the 

fiist week in July. Jim was home for hb high 
school class reunion. MIKE McCORMICK '61 
was out in the Midwest for several days in July. 
RICH McCORMICK '55 moved into his new 

home on West Uth St. here in Erie, but prob­
ably will be moving back to Cherry St. in the fall. 
—LEO J. BRUGGER JR. 61, Secietaiy 
i FT. LAUDERDALE 

The Club held its annual golf outing June 23. Unfortunately, the weatherman was not on our side. After 3 weeks of rain wt hoped it had rained itself out but we guessed wrong. Most of the 24 golfers finished; a few were a bit wet. Our ladies joined us for cocktails and Planta­tion's famous buffet. The management of Plan­tation Country Club went far and beyond the normal call to make our day a success. Joe Chase of Hantation and our own golf chairman, 
•PETE BARSKIS, we salute you. James C. Woulfe MD tied with Don Copp for the cham­pionship flight. Jim out-drew Don to beoime the year's champ. First Flight winner was our own ED BASTIAN, Ed took tune off to take part in this year's outing. What would the Fort I.auderdale Yankees do without the best dam general manager in the game? 
To celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Fort Lauderdale Qub, it was decided to have a past presidents night, honoring all those who gave so generously of dieir time and effort. Chamnan FRANCIS CAREY set the night of Aug. 10 as Past Presidents night and Freshman Send^ff. (The old and the new.) 
Future plans are in the works for the aimual TV party, a few extra ideas will be tried to make this one a real blast. The ND-Miami SMASH will be the hit of the year. Chauman £ D BAS­TIAN will no doubt come up with a few rabbits out of his hat. 
—GEORGE J. ERNST, Sccxctaiy 

^^ ^ HARRISBURG, PA. ' 
National Championship Kickoff — Our 4th An­nual Smoker will be Aug. 11 at the Knighti of Columbus Home, 213 State St., Harrisbuiig. The guest list is impressive — Coaches Johnny Ray and Joe Yonto, 1967 All-Americans TERRY HAN­RATTY and JOHN PERGINE, sophomore stand­out Jeff Zimmerman who will represent our area on this fairs team and Big 33 Coaches DICK. 
LYNCH and MEL LARSON, both Notre Dame 
grads. 
The smoker with speeches and films will start 

at 8 pm in the ballroom. Admission cost will be 
$1.50 per person. Reser\*ations for tickets may 
be made in advance by contacting the Club 
president. 
The committee has arranged for a reception 

for the coaches, players and Club members at 
7 pm in the new* pn\-ate meeting room at the 
Knights of Columbus. A buffet lunch will be 
ser\-ed and there will be no charge to those with 
paid-up membership in the Club. For rcscr\"a­
tions, contact JOE ELLAM. 
Plane Trip — To quote Bob Cahill, "A veritable 

ticket explosion has occurred in this office and 
the Southern California game was sold out on 
the first day of the advance Alumni sale.** There­
fore, our trip has been cancelled — other Alumni 
Clubs have also received word that their requests 
cannot be honored. 
GREEN BAY 

May 8 the Club had a joint dinner meeting with 
the Fox River Valley ND Club to observe UND 
Night. An additional purpose of the joint meeting 
was to honor Robert "Rocky" Blicr and his 
parents. Rocky Blier was bom and raised in 
Appleton, Wis. and is the 1967 N D football cap­
tain. The main speaker of the evening was ED 
"MOOSE" KRAUSE. Approximately 150 people 
attended this very successful affair. 
At the meeting the new officers for the Club were announced as follows: Pres. HARRY B. CONLON JR., VP JOSEPH FIEWEGER, Sec RAY EBLI, Treas. Dr. FRANK DAGA. The Club plans to coordinate many of its activities with the ND Club of Fox River Valley. 
—HARRY B. CONLON JR., Assistant VP 

^^^^ INDIANAP0U5 ^^^^ 
The annual stag outing at Moynahan's Shack was a tremendous success. Chairman TOM MOYNAHAN hosted 130 Alumni and guests. The swimming facility was used by some of the braver Alumni while everyone enjoyed the charcoal broiled hamburgers, beer and soft drinks. The highlights of the *66 football season were shown and w%re well received. 
The annual Golf Outing at Highland Golf & Country Club was Aug. 3. Chairman was TOM O'BRIEN '53 and Ara Parseghian was guest q>eaker. Other guests of the Club were represen­tatives from Butler, Indiana and Purdue univer­sities. 
Oct. 17 at Stouffer's Inn will be the Summa Dinner. Rev. Theodore &f. Hesburgh CSC will be the guest speaker. 
—LEO C. KfcNAJhlARA JR., Secretary 
JERSEY SHORE 

ED VOLL '48 of Toms IWver was elected presi­dent for the '67-'68 year. Other new officers are ANDY DE SIMON '41, Middletown, vp; CHARLIE KELLER *54, Sea Girt, sec.; DICK BYRNE *52, Shrewsbury, treas. New directors are DICK CORDASCO '50 of Shrewsbury and BOB GIUNCO *57 of Afanasquan. Holdover directors are Dr. CHARLIE PATERNO, JOHN BOGAN, DICK TIERNEY and FR.\NK GIBSON. 
The Club's Man of the Year is loyal subway 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
alumnus Rev. Paul J. Kane, chaplain of Mount St. Joseph's Convent. Father Kane, who has been attending football games the last 30 yean and plans to see the first six this year on his vacation, is the proud owner of a football auto­graphed by the members of the ND '66 champion­ship team. 
—CHARLIE KELLER, Secietaiy 

^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
Summer somnolence was combatted by the Club vtith weeks of intensive drills and preparation for the annual cocktail party sponsored by the Aux­iliary in August. 
Plans were also formulated for a trip to the Miami game Nov. 24 — a four-day spedal — which has proven particularly attractive in the past. In lieu of a Club-sponsored trip to a home game, ntmierous individuals are making their own plans suited to ticket availability and their own schedules. 
We send our highest hopes and best wishes for a successful year to Ara and the Irish and the Univenity. 
— THOMAS M. FLEMING »59, Secretary 
=LANSING= 

A potluck picnic for Alumni, wives and friends was hosted by the R. G. SCHNEIDERs at their home in East Lansing June 25. Rose and FRANK SIERAWSKI headed the organiTation committee. Recent activities of the Club included a fishing trip, a cruise on a Dixie paddlc-whecler, the first annual golf tourney and the annual stag sports dinner. 
JACK STEWART arranged for the charter of the "Outrider" Aug. 5 to go after the albacorc and the group started out about midnight. July 15 was the moonlight cruise aboard the SS Princess right out of Mark Twain's riverboat country. It was a 90-foot double-decker with the lower deck glass^enclosed. There was an elegant bar on board and Commodore TOM CREHAN had lots of hors d'oeuvres and a great piano player. 
FRED BOVE '50 was in charge of the golf outing July 13 at the Los Coyotes Country Club in Buena Park and DAVE WEILAND and JACK SWEENEY were co-chairmen of the sports dinner June 22 at the Schlitz Brewery. 
•' iMAINE = 

The Club had only one activity for the summer, our annual picnic at the ND Camp at East Sebago, Klaine. Each year Father Toste very graciously gives us the use of the camp for our picnic. 
The final results of the ND Band Concert April 1 showed a profit of well over $1,600 toward the scholarship money ^ve advance to needy boys. To make a profit vnih the band is just as simple as selling patrons. We put out a program with no ads in it. We make only one demand on the community once every three years and they re­spond admiringly well. And, because we are in an area of low wages, the price for two tickets including a patron is $5. With 500 patrons, a profit is assured. 
One of the visitors to Kfaine during the summer was Rev. Lcn Collins, former prefect of discipline, who is celebrating his 25th anniversary of priest­hood, and has been given permission to come back to his area of New England for a visit. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secretary 

^ ^ McHENRY COUNTY, lU . ^ ^ 
The Club is planning a bus trip to the ND-Southem California game Oct. 14, leanng from and returning to Crystal Lake; 38 club members, im'cs, sons, daughters and friends are expected to go Greyhound to the Campus. JIM WELT­ZIEN is chairman. 
Newly installed Pres. LEO POWERS of Crystal Lake also reports a possible joint family picnic for members of the McHenry County and ad­jacent Lake County, HI. clubs to be scheduled late this summer. Already former club president BILL CARROLL JR. is arranging for a Softball tourney in conjunction wth the picnic 
Judge WILLIAM CARROLL '15 and JOE FLYNN '15 reported they enjoyed their Class Reunion again this year. 
The Club observed UND Night at a dinner party at Martinetti's Restaurant in Crystal Lake, 
III. May 17. Thirty-five members and guests were present, including the following: VINCENT SMYTH '41; FRED KELLER '43; GEORGE COSTELLO '40; CLAIR LAMBERT '43; OLI­VER F. FIELD '31; DON FREUND '55; TOM P.^RSLEY '54. 
Guest speaker was Harry Gilman of Wood­stock, a graduate of John Carroll IT., «dio qwke on the role of the layman in the fitnisy ol the Church today. 
Other newly elected ofiGcers of the CInb aitt JOHN ORSO, vice-pres.; and JOE CONERTY, sec-treas. Newly elected directors are JOHN CORRIGAN '35 and TOM HARDING '65. 
—JOSEPH A. CONERTY JR. '44, Secfctaiy 

^^ ^ GREATER MIAMI ^^ ^ 
The Club has been enjoying a very active ycsr of scheduled events. Our successful UND Night was followed mth an enthusiastic tunvout of members and guests for the June 1 dinner meet­ing at which Charlie Tate, head coach of the Uni\*ersity of Afiami, was the honored guest and speaker. 
In rapid succession followed Golf Day for mem­beis and guests at Miami Lakes Country Qnb chairmaned by J. "PAT" 0*MALLEY July 8 and our big annual family picnic at Crandoa Park on Key Biscayne Aug. 12. 
Our September and October meetings will be in the shadow of (but nonetheless "moving") the big event in November. Of course, that is the Thanksgiving Holiday Weekend when Friday, Nov. 24, the "Fighting Irish" meet the U. of Miami "Hurricanes" in the Orange Bowl here in the Magic City. For those of you who are making plans to enjoy the "Long Weekend" in our tropic sunshine, we urge you to '*Cllp and Save" the schedule of events planned fay the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami to surround the "game of the year" and will add to the pleasure of your visit to our Ma^c City. (Ed. note: See complete story on Miami weekend in this issue.) 
^^ ^ MICHIGAN CITY, IND. ^^ s 
The Club has elected the following ofiBcers to guide the membership through 1967: Pres. STEVE JANUS, VP, C. MIKE CAULEY, Treas. LEON DARGIS, Sec DON WENTLAND. 
Aug. 13 the Notre Dame Ladies sponsored thnr annual "Splash Party." This year the event was at Jonynas Hal!, a few miles west of town. The facilities included a fine swimming pool to go along with the beautiful grounds. This event is generally the highlight of the year. 
Our annual bus trip to an away football game is at a standstill due to the demand for tickets to the Purdue game. The planned trip is set except for one item — tickets. Have any extras? 
With the fall season rapidly approaching, many Club members will again be making several wits to the Campus due to the short distance. How­ever, a few members have already made arrange­ments to attend the season-ending games with a stop at Atlanta before continuing on to Miami. Dr. BOB FROST is in charge of arrangements for the Key Colony Beach, Florida, branch meet­ing of the local Club to be held Thanksgiving week. 
—DON WENTLAND '51, Secretary 

^^^^ MILWAUKEE ^^^^ 
Under the chairmanship of TOM OSBERGER, our annual golf outing was at the North Store Country Club. Distinguished guests were coaches John Ray and George Sefcik, who gave us some insight as to what to expect on the gridiron next fall. 
Pres. JOHN SCHLOEGEL presented the Man of the Year award to GENE SMITH. The plaque has never been presented to a more worthy choice. Gene's contributions to the Club can only be described in the superlarive. 
New officers for 1967-1968 were elected. They are Pres. JOE MESEC, VP Dr. DAN COLLINS, Treas. DICK EHR, Sec. BILL LODGE. 
The ncAvly elected president announced Club plans for bus trips to the Iowa and Navy games. Our next event wtll be the fall football smoker Sept. 7 with ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. 
—BILL LODGE, Secretary 
NEW ORLEANS 

The Club observed UND Night April 3 with a dinner at the Jung Hotel in downtown New Orleans. We were honored by the presence *rf Bro. RAPHAEL WILSON CSC, director of admissions at ND, who gave a very interesting and informative talk to the 100 or so members and wives who were in attendance. 
The officers of the Club were most gratified by the presence of so many new faces and it is hoped that we will continue to attract these MfpcB pins other new ones - to oar xnture 
AmoDg those in attendance at the dinner were LESTER BOUDREAUX 'G2, JOHN PETITBON '52, ANDY FILNEY '36, WILLIAM JOHNSTON '44 and his son Billy, and JOE DROLLA, CLAY LE JEUNE, HUGH EVANS and JIMMY HOLMES, all of the Class of '63. 
LARRY HENNESSEY '57 handled the arrange­ments for the dinner and (£d a spIencEd job. PAUL HURLEY, Qob president, served as MC for the evening. 
The Qnb also sponsored a Communion break­fast Jnne 25. The Mass was in the dupd of Thomas Hall on the campus of Loyola U. of the South and breakfast fc^owed in the University Student Center. Rev. ROBERT J. NOGOSEK '53 was the celdirant of the Mass. 
Unfortunately, this function was not as well attended as the UND Ni^ t or some of the other past ftmctions, but this can be attributed to the fact that presently many ot the Almimi are ont of town on vacation. 
—MICHAEL READ, Secretary 
NORTHWESmN OHIO = 

ND men, students, parents, tnves and best girls were invited to the Club's golf ootii^ and dinner party June 7 at the Shawnee Country Qnb near lama, Ohuk BOB KUHN made the arrange­ments. 
PAKISTAN 

HUGH MURPHY '59 went back ta the States from Dacca in March on personal business. It turns out that business was, at least in part, matrimonial. May 20 Hugh married Joan lUley in liis home village. New Yorlc City. Hugh and his bride are expected to return to Dacca. 
Rev. ROBERT McKEE CSC '36 left Dacca for the Sutes Briay 28 to attend the Provincial Chapter. 
—Rev. F. J. BURTON CSC, Secretary 
=PHIIADEU>HIA = 

The Miami game trip preparations are proceeding according to plan under tile diairmansiiip of JAMES VOrr. This «riU be a great way to celd>rate Thanhsgiving. 
The lught at Liberty Bell Race Track was May 16 and a good time was had Iiy all. A vote of thanks goes to Chairman BOB MACK, for ar­ranging a wonderful evening. 
The annual Back to School party for the under­graduates is being arranged under the chairman­ship of BOB SLOTA. 
The arrangements for the Htt game have been completed. BOB MITCHELL is the chairman and the trip leaves by chartered Greyhound Bus Friday, Nov. 10, and returns Sunday, Nov. 12. Accommoilations have been secured at the Penn Sheraton Hotel. 
The Qub has available the 19G6 ND football highlights, 16 man. sound and they are in color. Anyone interested in reserving the film should contact PAT KITTREDGE at LO 3-4400. 
=ROCHESTER, N.Y.= 

In two meetings with his officers, Pres. ROY HANNA scheduled the fallowing Club activities for the coming year: August, Familr Picnic; September, Freshman Orientation; October, Fall Business Meeting; November, Football Raffle; De­cember, Christmas Dance; 1968, Spring Business Meeting and UNO Night. 
At this time, dates and chairmen of the events are tentative, with the exception of the Family Picnic, which was Aug. 19 at Ellison Park. Spe­cial athletic attractions of the picnic were JACK HEAGNEY '44, who was only two behind Mel Ott in career home runs, and FRANK CAP­PELLINO '56, who once stole four bases in Badin Bog (until Father McCarragher made him return them). 
FinaUy, condolences to TOM MURRAY and JOE KENNEY whose promising and original enterprise, "Kodak Ktmcerts," ended abnq>tly when the monkey died. 
—BOB DEWEY '54, Secretary 
= ROME = 

Our ND Hospitality Center at Largo Brancacdo 82 (near central rail-air terminal) is <^;>en e\*ery day from noon to nine. Welccnne, and telephone OS at: 730.002. Romecomers should keep in mind that Papal audiences by Paul VI LLD '60 are Wednesdays at 11 ajn. only. He ^e s a public blessing Sundays at noon. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 
Our great loss: Bro. ROBERT FONTAINE 
CSC '52, after 13 consecutive years at ND In­
ternational School for Boys in Rome, completes 
his terms as superior and headmaster, returning 
to the US for assignment in Albany, NY. The 
N D Club of Rome and its Hospitality Center 
wish to record here our deeply felt gratitude for 
the many assists Brother Robert has given over 
the years. 
Our gain: New member, M.AURICE J. SCAN­
LON '35 neH-ly appointed director of the Special 
Visitors Bureau at the US Embassy. 
And the Eternal Pilgrim Parade: Dr. SALVA­TORE FERRARI '34, PLIN "PETE" SWANSON '23 and wife, parents of JOHN '63 and JIM SKEESE '54, ED SMET '53 and wife, aunt of MELBOURNE '65 and JOHN NOEL '69, wife of ROBERT IRMIGER '27, JOSEPH SCALISE '25 and wife, WILLI.\M CARROLL '65, WIL­LIAM LANGAN '65, JOH.N LEINART '69, daughter and son-in-law of FRANCIS Mc-GAHREN '34, daughter of BERN.ARD M.ASTER­SON '40, HARRISO.N PIERCE '65, JOHN WAL­LER '66 (PhD) and wife SMC '62, ROBERT SCHIRF '39 with wife and five children. Sisters of Loretto FRANCES DE CHANTEL '42 and MAURA '35, FRANK SULLIVAN '49 and family (wife SMC '44), BOB XIATCHELL '60, aunt of MICHAEL DONAHUE '66, Bro. P.4UL BREDESTEGE SM (summer '62), son of ROB­ERT BIAIS '49, daughter of LEO LINCK '43, Sr. ARMAND OP '56, Capt. CLIFF COLLINS USAF '51 and **Catacomb alumni" from the ends of the earth. 
—VINCE McALOON '34 
^^ ^ SAN DIEGO, CAUF. ^^ ^ 
Under the leadership of our newly elected presi­dent. CHUCK VANDEGRIFT '56, the San Diego Club enjoyed a family picnic outing in July under the chairmanship of NICK KRALL '54. Nick recently left the San Diego area and he is now a full profess(»' in the dcpt. of physics and astronomy at the U. of Maryland. The Clnb 
enjoyed an August dinner dance mder tb«*cluur­
manship of newly married CLASSEN GRAMM 
'63. 
This past year the Club initiated and presented 
a trophy to the winner of the annoal football 
contest between San Diego's two hi^ly competi­
tive Catholic boys' high schools. Our CIiA plans 
a big get-together on the Saturday of the nap 
tionally televised fall football game. 
CLEMENT J. O'NEILL, Acting Secretary 
'- SPOKANE, WASH. 
Date of the annual dosed Retreat for Cldl> mem­
bers is the weekend of Oct. 20-22. It will be 
at Immaculate Heart Retreat House, just south 
of Spokane, and a good attendance is e^^kected. 
There nill be a football TV party for the MSU 
game on Oct. 28 at the home of a Club member 
yet to be designated. 
Club VP BILL SPIELER '53 has been pro­moted to four-states sales development manager for Consolidated Oil Co. with headquarters in Salt Lake City. Bill and his wife Shirley will be missed at the various Club affairs in which they have been most active since conung to Spokane in 1964. 
—JOE WALSH '14, Secretary-Treasurer 

^^^ TERRE HAUTE, IND. ^^ ^ 
The Club celebrated UND Night later this year, 
June 12, with a dinner party at the Terre Haute 
House. The late date did not seem to <Iampen 
the spirits of the Club as a fine crowd turned 

out including many guests of the members. Fea­
tured speaker for the dinner was RICHARD 
RUWE, area director for the Foundation. He did an excellent job of Informing everyone of the changes at ND and everyone was happy to have everything explained concerning the new policies at ND. 
Fc^omng the speaker the "Man of the Year" 

PATRICK W. KITTREDGE (right), president of the Notre Dame Club of Phila­delphia, foins with Bob Mack in presenting a cup to the winner of the big race during the Notre Dome Night festivities at Liberty Bell Race Track, Phila­delphia. The club annually sponsors a "Night at the Races" at Liberty Bell. 
Ctttb Directory-
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 

John S. Hellcnthal '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska 
ARIZONA 

Phoenix—^Donald F. Dugan Jr. '64, 1030 £. Bethany Home Kd., Phoenix, Ariz. 85014 
Tmeson—1. "Buddy" Goldman, '36, 3932 E. Poe, Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS 
Fort Smith—James A. Gilkcr, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Idtllt Rock—James £. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestwood. Little Rock. Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
Bolrn/icM—Richard L. Bamctt, '56, 1415 18th St., Apt. 316, Bakeisfield, Calll. 

Ctn/ro/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­
COLORADO 

tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, CaUL 
Colorado Sprimts—Joatph 
award was presented to JA}kIES P. BOYER by LOUIS KEIFER 'U. Then the officers for the new year were presented. They are pres. FRED CHRISTMAN '43, VP Louis Stcrgar NDF, Sec Bernard Burdick NDF, Treas. JAMES P. BOYER '49, Chaplain Rev. JOHN ROGUS CSC. 

To conclude the evening MIKE KEARNS showed everyone the highlights of the 1966 foot­ball season, a very fine film. Chairmen for the dinner were FRED CHRISTMAN and JOHN CHRISTEN. 
—JIM BOYER '49, Treasurer 

; TOLEDO •' Officers announced the following activity schedule for the Club calendar year: Aug. 20—th e first N D family picnic at the Andersons* estate in Jkfaumee. Incoming freshmen and their parents were guests of honor. Chairman was PAUL KRAUS. Sept. 11 — stage golf outing and golfer's sup­per. The new challenging Bymwyck Golf Club win test Club members' golfing skUh, says Chair­man JACK MCCARTHY. Oct. 22 — annual Communion breakfast to be headed by JOHN HARRON. Nov. 24—tenta­tively scheduled sponsorship of closed-circuit tele­cast of ND-Miami game live from the Orange BowL Chairman, BLAINE WILEY. Dec 29— annual Christmas dance at the Inverness Country Club, the social event of the year in Toledo. F^ . 4—sports program featuring highlights of the 1967 season and ND football stars, says Chainnan URB. GRADEL. April 18— UND Night saluting the ND Man of the Year and an outstanding speaker from the University. Chair­man, BILL MORLEY. A continuing event will be the ND Bridge Marathon, a new event for couples to match skill and luck and enjoy a congenial time with old and new friends. 
•' VIRGINIA 

In August the Frenshman Send-off was held for all the current area students. CHIPPY STUMPF extended the official welcome to the new stu­dents. CHARLIE SCHLIECKERT handled most of the details along with the help of DOC RILEY. The Washington-Maryland-Virginia Club presi­dent gave all in attendance a complete explana­tion of the Club's activities for the coming year. 
JERRY OWINGS named a committee to or­ganize a trip to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game. JOE LANGE and ALEX McMURTRIE were appointed to work out the details with Doc Kdly. This promises to be a real Dixie Yell. 
. WASHINGTON, D.C. ^ ^ 
The Club held a family Communion breakfast June 4 at Holy Cross Col. Rev. JOSEPH RE­HAGE, the Club chaplain, celebrated the Mass, and JACK GUY was the principal speaker. Club Pres. FRANK McCARTHY announced the list of activities for the duration of the simimer. 
July 14 approximately 25 Club members and their guests participated in the golf outing at the Washingtonian Golf and Country Club in Gaithersburg, Md. Prizes were awarded in sev­eral categories later that evening at a buffet siqiper for the Club members, their wives and guests. 
Future activities planned for the smnmer and to be reported on in the next issue are a cocktail party Aug. 5, a family picnic Aug. 27 and a smoker for returning and incoming students Sept. 7. 
—RAYMOND R.\EDY, Treasurer.. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBL\ 

 A. Reich Frank E. McCarthy '56, 4515 Hard-
Jr. '57, 1253 N. Meade. Cdoiado mg Lane, Bethcsda, Md. 20014 '56, 3205 Nebraska PI., Costa Mesa, Los Angeles — Thomas W. Powers, 
Springs, Colo. 80909 Calif. Denver — Edward M. Mahoney, '52, FLORIDA 950 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80201 
San Francisco Bay Area—Thomas J. Central FZa. — WUliam H. Ride, '36, 
Keman '55, 18 Fair Oaks Lane, 20(5 Falmouth Rd., Maitland, Fla. 
CONNECnCUT 
Atherton, Calif, 94025 32751 
Connecticut Valley—Robot L. Mc­er, '53, 2212 E. Wilshire Ave.. Goldrick, '56, 15 Dniry Laoe, W. Ft. Lauderdale—Chajics C. Rudd '54, Fullerton. Calif. P.O. Box 13030, Port Everglades, Orange County—^Thomas J. Getzing-
Hartford, Conn. Fairfield County—William Harrington 
Sacramento—Frank Geremia Jr. '60, Fla. 33316 
Jr. '48. 29 Waveriy Rd., Darien, 
8424 Lake Forest Dr. Sacramento, Conn. 06820 Greater Miami—^John W. Thornton, Calif. 
Naugatuck — Thomas K. Hubbard, '50, 9th Floor Ikide Federul Bldg., 
San Diego—Charles F. Vandegrift '56, 
'56, P.O. Box 525, Litchfield. Conn. 
8612 Warmwell Dr. San Diego, Miami, Fla. 33131 
tfew Haven^Dr. Robert T. Warner, 
Calif. 92119 

North F/o. —Robert W. Schellcn-San Gabriel Valley — William T. 17, Conn. . berK, '48, 6842 San Sebastian Ave., 
'53, I960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 
Huston '51, 1217 IBM BIdg., 3424 Jacksonville, Fla. 
Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. DELAWARE 
Palm Beach County—^Dr. James F. 

90005 Robert E. Daley '58, 1212 Crestover San /ore—Bert MiUen '57. 1551 Gua­Rd., Graylyn Crest, Wjlmington, Cooney '45, 3518 Broadway, West dalajara St., San Jose, Calif. 95124. D a 19803 Pahn Beach, Fla. 33404 
Pciisaca/ii—Leon V. Dulion, '54. 646 Whitney Dr., Pensacola, Fla. 32503. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1947 OCTOBER 

St. PetrnhnrfTcmpa — iSxA E. 
Moaner, '» . «2 5 Gaina Rd., 
Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 

Atlanta—I. Thomas Gmminff '57, 
4253 Ash«raodr TiaU, N.E., Atlan­
ta, Ga. 30319 
HAWAn 

Albert Lum *57, Chaminade Ccdiege 
of Honolulu, 3140 Waialae Ave., 
Honolulu, Hawaii 96816 
IDAHO 

Fiands H. Hicb, '49, 1180 Phelps 
Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho. 
Idaho Falls — James M. Bradr, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148. Idaho Falls. Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora — Eugene G. GrifiBn '57, 
Murphy & Griffin^ 340 N. Lake St., 
Aurora, lU. 60506 
Central /Uinou—Albert O. Eck, Jr., 
'58, Old Jacksonville Rd., Spring­
6eld. lU. 
Chicago—^Anthony G. Girolami '43, 
729 N. St. Louis, Chicago, III. 
60624 
Decatur — Nicholas J. Neicrs *58, 
2314 Wayside Place, Decatur, HI. 
62521. 
Eastern ///.—Maurice F. Stauder '41, 
26 Lake Shore Dr. Danville, HI. 
61832 
Fox Valley — Geoise R. Schmidt, '29, 
620 Summit St., Elgin, III. 
/o/iX—Richard E. McHugh, '43, 
R.R. 2, Manhattan, III. 
McHenry County — Leo J. Powers 
'25, 315 Warwick Lane, Crystal 
Lake, lU. 60014 
Peoria — Robert E. Manning '60, 
1515 N.E. Glen Oak, Peoria, HI. 
61603 
Rockford—^John F. Su-anson, '62, 426 
Seventh St.. Rockford, III. 61110 
Rock River Valley — Paul L. Bcrret­
tini '56, R.R. 1, Plum Hollow Rd., 
Dixon, lU. 61021 
Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
CaflareUi, '55, 20851 Sparta Lane, 
Olympia Fields, lU. 60461 
INDIANA 

Calumet District—Tiamthf P. Galvin 
Jr. '59. 237 Gregory Ave., Munster, 
Ind. 46321 
Eastern Indiana—Thomas T. Adams 
'49, 1707 E. Robinwood Dr., 
Muncie, Ind. 47304 
£/Uart —James D. Ash, '33, 1151 
Strong Ave., Elkhart, Ind. 
Fort Wayne — John A. Haley, Jr., 
'51, 6735 Hiltonia Dr., Fort Wayne, 
Ind. 46809 
Indianapolis—^William K. McGowan 2019 Kenwood Parkway, Miime-
Jr. '57, 7520 Holliday Dr. West, 
Infiianapolis, Ind. 46260 
Michigan City — Stephen E. Janus 
'57, 1415 Washington St., Michigan 
City. Ind. 46360 
St. Joseph Valley — Robert H. 
Michaud '50, 1821 Rockne Dr., 
South Bend, Ind. 46617 
Terre Haute — Fred G. Christman, 
Sr. '43, 1406 Wabash Ave., Terre Haute, Ind. 47801 
Tri-State — Robert E. Griffin '57, In­
dian Archery Corp., 16 Clark St., Evansville, Ind. 47708 
IOWA 

Sur/iVon—Vem H. Brinck '48. 501 
N. Sbith, Burlington, Iowa 52601 
Des Moines—Anthony M. Critelli '52, 
619 Savings & Loan BIdg., Des 
Moines, Iowa 50309. 
Dubuque — Michael B. Walsh '56, 
B. C. Zicgler & Co., 1003 Amer­
ican Trust BIdg., Dubuque, Iowa 
52001 
SiouX'Land — Raymond B. Duggan, 
'43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, 
Iowa. 
Quad Cities—Jama J. Coryn '54, 
312 Fust Nat'l Bank BIdg., Rock 
Island, lU. 61201 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry DevHn, '49, 
2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 
5s/ina—Albert J. McLean. '31, 1410 
Highland Ave.. Salina. Kan. 
Wichita—Vfm. T. Davitt. '56, 204 
Bitting BIdg., Wichita, Kan. 67202 
KENTUCKY 

Robert G. Hucti. Jr., '58. 12310 
Davidson Dr., Woodland Hills, Ky.
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Piasl E. Hurley '56, 225 Baronne St., New Orleans, La. 
70130. 
Northern Louisiana—Dr. Edward R. 
Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., 
Shreveport, La. 
MAINE 

Anthony E. Silva, '56. 224 Walnut St, 
South Portland. A^ne. AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER WS7 OCTOBER 
MARYLAND 
Baltimore—Raymond T. Bender '61, 
8503 A Dempster Ct., Baltimore, 
Md. 21234 

MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County—Harold C. Me-
Kenna '61, 142 Benedict Dr., Pitts­
field, Mass. 01201 
Bostoa—Richard W. Murphy, 540 Granite St., Braintree, Mass. 02184 Pioneer Valley — William A. Hurley, '28, 33 Ehn St., Springfield, Mass. 
01103 

MICHIGAN 
Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, 40, 
1009 Security National Bank BIdg., 
Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, 
'43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUes. Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. 
Wilson, '42, 4080 Giatiot Ave., Port 
Huron, Mich. 

Dearborn—Robert W. Missel '58, 
740 N. Melbom, Dearborn, Mich. 
48128 

Detroit — Louis C. Bosco Jr. '58, 
29733 Spring HOI Dr., Southfield, 
Mich. 48075 

F/int—Emery A. Sherwood, '38, 123 
W. Marengo, FUnt, Mich. 48505. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, 
Wright & Zmn, Michaels BIdg. 
Ironwood. Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—WiUiam F. Thrall, '60, 1117 Un­
derwood St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
49506 

Uiawathatand — Donald T. Trottier, 
'44, 604 Ludington St., Escanaba, 
Mich. 

Jackson — Cjril J. Hartman, '23, 612 
Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — George R. Laure '38, 
8212 Shaver Rd., Kalamazoo. Mich. 
£<nuinf—Richard E. AUes '55, 7516 
Sunset Dr., R.R. 2, Lansing, Mich. 
48917 

Monroe—HuA J. Latigbna, '40, 1587 
Riverview, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., 
'58, 2211 Renecr St., Muskegon, 
Mich. 

Northland—^Henry J. Lauerman, '23, 
1975 Riveiside Ave., Marinette, 
Wis. 

Saginaw Valley—Eugene J. Gase Jr. 
'56, 404 W. Genesee Ave., Saginaw, 
Mich. 48602 

Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo­
ney, '17. 416 East State St.. Che­
boygan, Mich. 

MINNESOTA 
Twin Cili«—Albert D. Eilera, '53, 
apolis, Minn. 55405 
MISSISSIPPI 
Waiiam H. MiUer, '30, 755 GiBesine PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—^William F. Ungashick, 
'43, 310 W. 66th St., Kansas City, 
Mo. 64113 

St. Louis—Joseph F. Dwyer Jr. '58, 
7053 Westmoreland, St. Louis, Mo. 
63130 

MONTANA 
Robert T. O'Leary, '54, 2920 Floral 
Blvd., Butte, Mont. 
Billings — Bruce J. Madntyre '59, 
Maclntyre Motor Co., P.O. Box 
1047, Billings, Montana 59103 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^Warren Hillsdale Rd.. Harrnbotg, Ri. 17112. 
A. Youngstrom '55, 1260 S. 16t]i 
St., Omaha, Neb. 68108 
NEVADA 
Rex A. Bell, '57, 304 Fremont St., Las Vegas, Nev. 
NEW JERSEY 
Central — Hotvard J. Gillespie '34, 
282 Garrett Rd., Mountainside, 
N.J. 07092 

New Jersey Shore—Edwin L. Voll 
Jr. '48, 38 Kim Court, Toms 
River, N.J. 08753 
New Jersey — Angclo B. Amato '42, 
8 Kenilworth Drive, Crcsskill N.J. 
07626 

South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 
624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Paul R. Farmer, Jr. '53, 2507 Carol, N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87112. 
NEW YORK 
Albany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 
Brookline Ave.. Albany, N.Y. 
Buifa/o—Robert M. Bennett '62, 229 
Wardman Rd., Kenmore, N.Y. 
14217 

Centra/— Kevin J. Ryan, '61, 146 
Northwood Way, Camillus, N.Y. 
13031 

GoUn Ordt—Jnum W. IfeVa. •«. 
49 FiuinnT Lne. IndML K. 
MU-Hnison VdOn — Dr. Heny W. 
Fletcher '50, SS Adiiaace Ave, 
Poughkeepsie. N.Y. 12G01 

Mokauk KSiy-Jolm F. Woqipd '53. 29 S. Richfidd St.. uSSSt,
N.Y. 13407 

New York CtQp—Jolm I. ildbaaim 
'31, 66 Court Sc, BmcUja. N.Y. 
11201 

Rochtster—'t. Royal Huaa 'S2, 7S Conmar Dr., Rochester^ N.Y. 14609 
Sckenectaij—kobat A. Live 'SJ, S73 Wcstbobn Rd.. Schaiectady. N.Y. 
12309 

SyracnsaStK "Cential Nor Y*^" 
Soulkm Tin — "ttak F. CBriea, 
'34. 201 Fedendoa BUl.. EU^^ 
N.ir. ^ ^ 

TripU Cities —Ttnsik M. laaehan, 
'45, 2 Elizabeth St., MK 97, Kaf 
hamton. N.Y. NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kebey, '4S, 1115 Wot-
ridge Rd.. Greensfaoco. N.C 
NORTH DAKOTA 

WillGun Daner, '53, 1106 S. Hichbad 
Acres, Bismarck. NJ>. 
OHIO 

Akron — James C. Censky '56. 38S 
Alton Ave., Akron, Ohio 44313 
Canton—Charles N. KoeUer '57, 151 
Harter Ave. N.W., Canton, Ohio 
44708 

Cincinnati—Robert B. Frolicher '54, 
6619 Rapid Run, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45233 

C/e»/ajiiI—Richard A. Van Anken "57, 
3615 Sutherland, Shaker Heigiils, 
Ohio 44120 

Co/umitu—Frank J. Bcttendotf '59, 
2147 Elgin Rd., Cohirnhm, Ohio 
43221 

Dayton — Louis J. Kavamnsh '5B, 
151 SheriiKham Ct., ^t . N, Ket­
tering, Ohio 45429 

Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, SS3 
South D St.. Hamilton. Oluo. 

Afaiu/!«/d —Herbert J. Ffye. '40, 740 
N. Henry St., Crestline, Ohio 
Northwestern — Walter K. Bemard, 
'30. 433 Johnson Ave., Cd ^ 
Ohio 45822 

Okio ral/<y—WiOiaia J. Bodi '59, 
42 Lynwood Ave., WIiedii«, W. 
Va. 26003 

Sandnsiy — Richard a HoUer, '47. 
2603 Eastwood Dr.. Saadrnkr, Okio. 
Tim* — Fred h Wnv, %, 152 
Sycamore St., Tiffin. Oiiio. 

ro/«/a—Thomas J. Wdly '55. 20tS 
Mt. Vernon, Toledo. Ohio 'UG07 
Youngstown — Geone A. Wdscli, Jr., 
'48, 2540 Skywae Or., Youngstown, 
Ohio 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City — Daniel J. Kdeher, 
'58. 4201 N.W. 61, OUdwoa Cty, 
Okla. 

rii/so—Bemard J. Sullivan, "39, 717 
Kennedy BMg.. Tnba, OUa. 74103 
OREGON 

Dr. Edward M. Scott, '46, 3632 N.E. 
Davis, Portland. Ore. 97232 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Or. George W. 
Katter, '4L VS. Bank tUg.
Johnstown, n. 

Ene — Richard T. UcCoondt, '55. 
4425 Cherry St., Erie, Bk 

tfarrif&urr—Joseph EUam '58. 4106 
Uhigh VaUty-ltxni E. Nohn, '55, 
835 Edward Ave., AlkntowD. Vn. 
18104 

Monongahela KoZ/fv—Louis W. Aponc, 
'41. 321 Maritet St.. Brownsville. Vn. 
Philadelphia—Patrick W. Kittredge, 
'58, 1500 Seven Pfenn Center Plaza, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103 

Pittsburgh —J. Peter Friday, '5a S21 
Ella Dr., Pittsburgh. Pa. 15216 
Scranton — Richard J. Jordan '51, 
1102 Woodlawn Ave, Scranton, 
Pa. 18509 

Wakes-Barre—Kajmoad I. Sobou '49, 
760 Miners Bank Sdg., Wilkei-
Barre. Pa. 18701 

Williamsport — Joseph F. Ono. Jr.. 
'55, 822 Ftankim StT, WnCaaipart, 
RHODE ISLAND 

AND SOUTHEASTERN 
MASSACHUSETTS 

Frauds J. Conforti. '4S. Edncatioa 
Funds. Inc. 10 Donanee St., 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge. Jr., '51. 22 Moore 
Dr., Westwood. Charicston, S.C 
TENNESSEE 

CAnftaiiaafa—Robert J. Shocker '61, 509 Cherry St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402 
Mtm m41.1fiiiyi. T« NoiriBt—\^Sj. fi 
372IB 
TEXAS 
afct —D . E»y»eK Kcnfa Jr. m, JUBB TomKMI 1M>9 TB.
7S229 
B faso^-Goa P. Iluimin '«, MB 
Otktd, H RHO, TO. TMB 
0MUtra—Ouotie S. "* 
1915 " ' To. 
77027 
JfiOni-OdlaM—Jota L. 
'38. 2212 Hanard Dr., 
Smm Amjania TiBwiencc L 
«I . 232 Sdbnl, Saa Aniowl. To . 
UTAH 
WDEaa C. ADen '57, 652 Alofai Rd,. 
Salt Uke Cty. Utah MIOS. VIRGINIA 
A. ^enne Owiagi '60, 19 Wn* — 
nutway, Ririiiiiiil. Va. 2S29 
Cbadei A. LaFiatta,'47. ISU AlMiB 
Dr., Udmiand. Va. WASHINGTON 
St<Ama*-^Dt. Im J.^UtCamffm'St. South AT2Z imt^tOBM St^ SpoftsB^' Wash. 9920S 
Wesum—lboata P. Iby, 'SO. SBS Tenth Ave North, leaM . Walk. WEST VIRGINIA Cyril M. Rdch. V.VBS. Omr St, 
St. Aliaas, W.Va. 
C«alraf — M a D. Jniaa, '40^ tJO. 
Box 2063, OartihiafrW.Va. WISCONSIN 
Fox lUver FaBfv—KnaeO E. Sfal 
'50, ball's ColoBial Wonder lar. 
Inc., South Mcaocial Dr., Apple­
ton, Wis. 549n. 
Cr«<a &9—Hmy B. Coaka '57, SOt 
Tower \icw Dr., Green Bay. Wii. 
54301 
La Crasst-^Dt. FU&t H. Uti. '41, 
300 Krst St. Soatii. La Oroeea^ 
Minn. 55947 
JforriB—AagmtDi H. Stanfe, '27. 102 
S. Fttnpcct St.. Ifai^rinc 
Mawaakte — JoKph A. Uate 'St,
5311 AUenwoodLancBaktConicn, 
Wis. 53130 
NoTtkmast Wiuansm — Bern U . Sm­
anni, Jr.. "60. 2719 Kdtfc Sc, Eaa 
cure . Wise. 54701 
Sanik Central—Thmaf If. Hinka,' 
•51, 5414 Dofsett Dr.. VnSmm, Wis. 53711 
WYOMING 
htridc H. Meenaa. '49, IGdwot 
BUk-, P.O. Box 481. Caver, Wyow 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bndl — Thomas E. Canoll '5S. tr.S. 
Consulate, Sao Paolo. Rua hdre 
Jaao Ifaand 20. AJ.O. 67^ New 
Yoifc. N.Y. 09676 
Caaada — Fknl H. LaFramboise.'St. 
St. Hihure RomiOe Co.. 212 Bhd. 
Kididiea, Qnefacc. Canada. 
CUb—Midi^ E. Cnnm '61, b ­
dustiiB "OOIA" S.A., CasDIa Mt,
Vina Od Mar, Chile. 
CaUmKa—J. Ramon de h Torre '57. 
CaOe 78, No. UO, Bogota. Co­
Bcnaiot—Jramt Phto DanIa 'SO, 
P.O. Box 2107, Quito, Eaador. 
5a|<«ad-^>0Dald C: Loecfc '50^ 99 bto n Tesrace, Londm SWI. E»­
gland. 
J&ula — Lawrence J. Gotnaco, "3^ 
P.O. Box 1152. Manila. PUEp|»<i-
Ueaeo Cily—Riehaid C. Lcaa '44. 
Mimte Kameruia 225, Ifenco 10,
D.F. Mexico. 
Wirvaciia—Nod Pdhis '49, .^ar­
tado 2119. Maiugiia, Nicaragua. 
PaUfto—Rev. Frank } . Button CSC 
'33, Notre Dame College, Dacca 
-2-, East hUstaa. 
Panama — Lorenzo Ruiagoea, 'ti,
P.O. Box S30-F. Puama, hnaan. 
f«T»—Ernjune LnlE, '45, Cuaco 4W, Tf^*"**! Pem. Paarto JUco—luEo Viztaiioado, ^. . '56. P.O. Box 9004, Saataicc IHieito Rico. 
Kama — Vmcent G. IfcMooa. "M. 
(Seczelaiyi, Puazao naacaco^ 
taigo Biaacacdo. t2. Suae. Italy. 
Sam Sdvaiar — Robert Poon '65. 71 
Avenida Snr. Coloma Eaaka, Saa 
Salvador. El Salvador 
Taha-^Ore. Peter T. Mbriwald, SJ.^ 
'&. Sopha Vimefaty 7. Kiednb 
Onyodak. Tokyo. Japaa. 
Venexaeta—Vxnjn J. Gonnaa Jr. 
•39, Apartado 1651. Caacaa. Vca­

The man said it and he should know. "It's a lot easier shooting for the crown then trying to retain it." And, indeed, in the days ahead, Ara Parseghian will get to know even better the meaning of his words. Ten teams, five of them picked for 'Hop ten" berths, will be out to unseat the national collegiate football champions. Besides being a sitting duck, this year's Fighting Irish also will have to overcome the loss of ten All-Americans from the championship team. There to fill the gap will be the likes of Hanratty, Seymour and O'Brien, a healthy supply of pass catchers and a strong defensive perimeter of veteran backs and linebackers. It all begins September 23 in South Bend 
with the Golden Bears of California, 
THE WORLD OF 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL IN 
Photos by Richard Stevens and Ernesto Sol 
m 
sS^S^ 
S^lB 

••.••n:j^ag^-*».-y-^*« •at^j..^^i-;!iy»-V^^'?af>^yt; t/SigfmJn^e-r^ 
m. 
\sf js^i; 

mmm ^W^^
'^^m^k^m^m
•%ti 

SiSis^at­
•^^^^i}' 
V'-r 
^•r-' 

Hom Ok AA i CAUmHIA 
> w­
#^ 
•-•^-' 

There's a ring to it. And, to Notre Dame fans who hope it will go on forever, it's a beautiful sound. It tells the storj' of two sojjhomores who last year teamed up to produce a passing attack that brought Notre Dame its first national football championship in 17 years. Almost over­night, "Hanratty to Seymour" became a kind of youth symbol. Now, in '67, they arc juniors! 
But, as any football enthusiast — in­cluding the head coach — will acknowl­edge, successful football is built on the whole team. And therein lies the differ­ence. 
"Lest anyone forgets," Ara will tell you in a sort of reprimanding way, "we have lost ten AIl-.\mericans, most of whom now ai-e playing pro ball. That represents a loss of e.xperience and talent that just can't be replaced nohow!" 
Specifically, it means that Notre Dame this year \\-ilI be without the likes of Jim Lynch, Nick Eddy, LaiT)- Conjar, Pete Duranko, Alan Page, Paul Seiler, George Gocddcke, John Homey, Don Gmittcr, Tom Rcgner and Tom Rhoads. That makes 11 holes in the first-string. 
But youth has a way of making people forget the good ole days. And if Captain Bob Bleier and the '67 Irish have their way about it, the younger set once again will come up %vith a perfonnance that will seem unbeatable. 
For a second year there'll be die pass­ing blitz \\-hicli last year had veteran sportswriters making comparisons with ND gieats like Lujack, Hart, Guglielmi, Huarte, Snow and others. 
Hanratty, in his first season out, tossed 147 aerials, completing 78 for a .531 per­centage. Eight were good for touchdowns. His sophomore year perfonnance netted him All-American honorable mention from the Associated Press and Newspaper 
YEAR m mm MM OF 
HANRATTYTO SEYMOUR 
Enterprise Association and ranked him eighth in the Heisman Trophy voting. 
His accomplice, split end Jim Sejniour, caught 48 passes for 862 yards and eight touchdowns. His perfonnance, second best in ND histoiy only to Jack Snow, was made in only seven ball games. An ankle injur)' sidelined him for three outings. He, too, received All-American recognition, when he was selected for first team berths by Football News and the New York Daily News. 
Not exactly a rookie nor a second-year man, but one who'll play a major role in Ara's "whole new team," is Kevin Hardy. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1947 oaOBER 

This year Hardy will be seen at defensive end instead of his familiar defensive tackle slot. It's unusual to find an All-Amcrican with such physical proportions (6-5, 270) moved out of his familiar surroundings into a new position requiring gieater speed. 
But Hardy is an unusual athlete. "He is big and he has experience," Ara will tell you. "But the amazing thing is Kevin's agility. He has great speed and a sort of dexterity you would expect of an end who goes about 200 pounds." 
These three — Hanratty, SejTnour and Hardy — are probably the best known re­
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

Ara Parseghian and Terry Hanratty 
turnees this year and have gotten, thus far, the biggest pre-season press coverage. But prognosticators, if tlicy asked Par­seghian, would have to settle for more. 
"They've failed to mention many others who are Just as important to our organization," the 44-year-old coach says, and then he lists them. "There are Bob Bleier, Mike McGill, John Pergine, Dave Martin, Coley O'Brien, Tom Schoen, Jim Smithberger and Tom O'Lear)'." 
These, too, are familiar to Notre Dame fans. And they are just as much a part of that beautiful sounding "ring" Irish followers hope will go on forever. 
John Pergi 

Tom Schoen 
'•-£?^1 

Mike ^dZo^ Dave Mar 
^'\\ 

Mike McGi Bob Olson 
r;f4AV'^-^C-:^rj-v;/y.<K.irar^?y^-Jvr'^F/yg-f^r^^ 
ON RETURNING VETERANS AND IAH^ M SOPHOMORES 
-<^i 
Terry Brennan 

Rene Torrado Coley O'Brien 
When it comes right down to actual man­
power, the Fighting Irish this fall have 
23 returning lettermen whose talent and 
axperience will shape a strong team 
nucleus. At the same time, Notre Dame's 
sophomores, though likely to start at only 
three or four positions, have already im­
pressed observers with their size alone. 
A young chap, Mike McCoy (6-5,270) 
in particular, has shown great promise at 
a defensive tackle position. McCoy, who 
is from Erie, Pa. has been touted by more 
than one football previewer for possible 
"sophomore of the year" honors. 
McCoy v/ill be a part of the Irish's 
"front four" and will be joined by Kevin 
Hardy at one end; sophomore Dewey 
Poskon from Superior, Wis. or Junior 
Brian Stenger at the other end; and tackle 
Eric Norri a junior from Virginia, Minn. 
Linebacker Dave Martin will be the 
leader of this year's defensive unit. Other 
veterans behind the line will be John 
Pergine and Mike McGill as well as Tom 
Sclioen, Jim Smithberger and Tom 
O'Lcary in the secondary'. Captain Jim 
Lynch is the only one from last year's 
team not among these defenders. His likely 
successor at inside linebacker is sopho­
more Bob Okon from Superior, AVis. 
Offensively, Notre Dame will have Jim Seymour at split end backed up by Paul Sno\v and Curt Heneghan. If his knee holds up, George Kunz will be playing tight end. Likely starters at the tackle slots are Bob Kucclienberg and Rudy Konieczny. Pushing both of these upper­classmen are two sophomores, Terrj' Bren­nan and Charles Kennedy. The center position is now filled by senior Steve Quinn backed up by Tim Monty. 
Probably the best-manned position on the squad is quarterback where juniors Terry Hanratty and Coley O'Brien team up as the best one-two combination in the nation. Captain Bob Bleier has moved to the left half spot and the other side will be filled by either Dan Harshman or Bob Gladieu.x. 
One of the big question marks is the fullback slot. Junior Ron Dushney was given the starting nod at the Old-Timers game over sophomore Ed Ziegler. 
Joe Azzaro once again will be handling the place-kicking duties. Last year he booted 35 out of 38 extra points and four of five field goals. Competition for punt­ing honors is among Kevin Hardy, Bob Bleier and Junior Rene Torrado, a bare­foot kicker who tried out last spring and now has a spot on the team. 53 Notre Dame this year has another re­markable combination, one rarely found at other schools enjoying similar pros­perity. An entire coaching staff is re­turning. They are a group of experienced young men, most of whom have been with Ara Parseghian since he became head coach at Notre Dame in late 1963. 
There are many in this gi-oup who have been offered head coaching jobs elsewhere. Like John Ray. Considered last December as a leading candidate for the ^Visconsin job, John decided to cast his lot with the Fighting Irish for another year. He'll do so under the new title "assistant head football coach." 
Offensive backfield coach Tom Pama and defensive backfield coach Paul Shoults also were sought by other colleges for top positions. These men will be joined on the coaching front once again by Joe Yon to, assistant defensive line coach; Jerrj' ^Vampfler, offensive line coach; George Sefcik, offensive end coach; Wally Moore, head freshman coach; and John Murphy, assistant freshman coach. 
Each man must have his personal reasons for staying, but Ara gives most of the credit to the University. He believeSj "It's just a great place to work." 
Ara admits he "expected to lose at least two" of his assistants. He went on to ecplain, "It's verj' unusual after win­ning the national championship, with so 
FROM LEFT TO RIGHT: Wally Moore, Joe Yonto, John Ray, Paul Shoults, Ara Parseghian, Tom Pagna, Jerry Wampfler and George Sefcik. 
many colleges after your staff, to have your men stay on with you. Certainly, this is one of the strong points of our team this fall." 
And what about the head man? 
Rumors at the close of last season had Ara moving on to the Detroit Lions or any one of several other professional foot­ball clubs. "There have been many op­portunities," Ara will tell you, "even while I was at Northwestern, for me to move into the professional ranks. And their financial terms far exceeded my earning potential in college coaching." 
THE CONSTANT FACTOR 
This is how he e.xplains his own reasons for not accepting professional offers: "I like the environment of a col­lege campus. And I also like the com­munity here. And in some small \\'ay I like 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

/> ^ Ara Parseghian 
-"••iS-*-' 
John Ray 

to think of myself as an educator. I was trained as an educator in the field of sports. When I work with this age group I feel that this becomes my classroom." 
This has been Ara's outlook after 18 years of coaching college football. But, after having gone through these many campaigns, he also has become a realist and admits that the situation could change. 
"I learned a long time ago," says Ara, "not to say 'never or ever" because you don't know what's going to happen." 
For now, however, Ara and every one of his assistants are deeply involved in preparing for the season ahead. And most 
imminent  is  a  September 23 date with  
California's  Golden Bears.  
55  

YOUN6 GIANTS OLD ECHOES 
The great hall was as dark and lonely a place I had ever seen. The walls looked ancient and the high-arched ceiling seemed to fade into the darkness of the evening sky .. . a sky that would soon echo with the war cries of seven thousand liopeless fanatics bent on vic­toiy. But at present the night conde­scended to be still, waiting, perhaps bracing itself. 
Outside, the weather was pleasant and the soimds and smells of a college campus floated in the air. Not many students could be seen at this off hour. They were in the dorms, reading, or in gi'oups, talking about nothing in par­ticular, just to relieve the tension, the impatience. 
Back in die hall, the stage for the gi-eat transformation at last was set. At first only a few older devotees presented themselves. Their joking conversations resounded off die sides of the huge arena. In time more and more individu­al gioups spread themselves over the floor as if it were only by chance that they were now under the same roof. 

Terry Hanratty and Jim Seymour: A view from the balcony 
AtUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 

Segment of ardent admirers 
Then there was the vague feeling of a 
lone drum beating, just a verj' faint sen­
sation, so faint that it could easily have 
been missed. The sound, however, re­
fused to die, and it gradually came 
nearer until the high-pitched note of 
the glockenspiel grew slowly out of the 
methodical beat. 

One by one different sounds shouted from tlie distance. Tliese spasmodic at­tempts at harmony started to take the form of something familiar. At long last they were coming. Suddenly the place was teeming with life. Signs and posters grew out of the walls. People were jam­ming into the hall, squeezing against the walls which appeared to be bending with the pressure. From the balcony the faces were packed together as far as the eye could see. In the midst of this sea of madness the band was tiying franti­cally to make itself heard, but in vain. It was swallowed up in one continuous should of confusion. What were they waiting for? 
In an instant the unbelievable roar doubled as a string of young giants slowly paced across the front of the bal­cony in full view of all. Their casualncss was out of place. Their apparent sanity separated them as a unit from the crowd that cheered them. In their wake came a dark, handsome man in a brown suit. Now was the moment, the long-awaited climax. Their coach was among them. The place exploded. It moved with him. Seven thousand ardent ad­mirers let loose and arched their cries to him. Even the spectators in the bal­cony lost their self-control. 
The temperature rose thirty degrees in as many seconds. Insanity went ram­pant. One's identity was lost in the con­fusion. No longer were you an individu­al but you became joined involuntarily with the person next to you and the one next to him. You're trapped. You be­came a mass. 
After the ordeal, having escaped into the silent night again, you can think back on what has happened and it will seem like a dream. To understand how a line of football players and their coach could have brought you scream­ing to your feet is impossible. Though you're mentally and physically exhaust­ed the power of the dark, handsome man remains over you. You're charged with his energ)'. 
The game the next day is an anti­clima.x. It has already been played. The victorious coach in the brown suit is busy planning Saturday's re-nin. Vic­tory is inevitable. 
— THOMAS BENEDICT JR. 
The author is a 15-year-old boy and son of Thomas Bene­dict Sr. '49. These were his re­flections after attending his first Notre Dame rally last fall. 
«r^ 
'^• 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OCTOBER 

FANS, COLOR BECOME 
.X. 
•>c 
•^s 

» •» * 
» > >» 
vv* •-^ ->*-»-fc.^ 
. J^ 

^i-vl^ 
V» ^%^ .»r 
,J 

»»»4k^ 
, -^ 1J 
**»'*. V iii 
(* 
f*^ 
MllA 
'f* 
i»aWM 
«<^» 
fjOt. «tf «1 ,rf »( 
xlf ' \ 
ri*" •« 
i«^ ' « 
m 
^m 
m?^f 
y^^fn^ 
'i5<si, ^1^ 
SK^ 
sri?-!® 
^•:it. 

DIMENSION 
^  
»r.  ^  ^  
«• . ^ f  • '  =»-• J!'  ^VtV'-'  
^  ^  ^  
|f  .^H  
7- 
r-^-.-v  

A PREVAILS WHERE NEITHER SIZE NOR SPEED MATTERS 
Soj for Notre Dame, another football season begins. And the one big question asked by Notre Dame fans everjnvhere isj "Will the Irish be number one again?" 
That answer will come wthin the next ten weeks. But for Notre Dame fans as well as the team, tlie goal of a national cliampionship looms further off in the future. Between now and the close of the season ten teams will be shooting for the Irish. Five of them— Purdue, Michigan State, Miami, Georgia Tech and Southern California —^have been picked to finish in the top ten. 
"The schedule is tough and demand­ing," Ara reminds even the most loyal fan. "If we can get through this schedule you'll know that we've had one heck of a fine team. In college football the unpredictable aspects of the game—the opponents' strength and the injury factor—are the real question mark." 
There is still more to the game. Along with tlie unpredictable elements Ara mentions, there is another indefinite quantity. Some call it spirit; others call it desire. And, yet, ironically, it cam be tangibly evident on the ball field. It is the added element which gives one club the edge over another, though both may have comparable physical strengths. Whether you call it tradi­tion, spirit or desire add Notre Dame before it and you've got what amounts to an institution respected by all op­position. 
Leadership has a lot to do wth it— leadership not only from the coaches but from the players as well. Jim LjTich last year was an outstanding example. And wtli him he had the "good humor" boys, Pete Duranko, Alan Page and George Goeddeke. 
Although they are now playing for professional teams, these boys have left a legacy. Other young leaders will take their place. Foremost is Captain Bob "Rocky" Bleier, a proven runner last year who now is set on demonstrating his new role of team leader. And with him there'll be Dave Martin on defense and others who'll become more notice­able as the weeks go along. 
A new season "and a new team," remarked Bob Bleier. "A bunch of guys out to make their own mark." That's a concept unmistakcably Notre Dame. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1967 OaOBER 


Mr. Franeis P. Olarlc Head, Microfilming & Photo. Lab. Memorial Library. 
Notre Dame,- Ind.. 46556 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 

THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 HONORARY PRESIDENT AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. "43 PRESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 VICE-PRESIDENT THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 VICE-PRESIDENT CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 VICE-PRESIDENT JAMES D. COONEY '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 
JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 NOMINATIONS RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 
19965 BRIARCLIFF 
DETROIT, MICH. 48221 

THOMAS W. CARROLL '51 NOMINATIONS PUCEMENT 214 W. 20th HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY JR. '43 EXECUTIVE 519 SUSSEX RD. WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19096 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 ACADEMIC AFFAIRS CONTINUING EDUCATION 73 MT. WAYTE AVE. FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01702 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 
V/ILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 BUDGET 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
V/ILLIAM F. KERV/IN JR. '40 ADMISSIONS 1108 EMILIE ST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 

RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL '54 PUBLIC REUTIONS AND 
DEVELOPMENT STUDENT AFFAIRS P.O. BOX 200 SOUTH BEND. IND. 46624 
LEO V. TURGEON '42 ATHLETIC SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKER ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
DIREaORS TO 1970 
EDWARD G. CANTWELL "24 700 BINNS BLVD. COLUMBUS, OHIO 43204 
EDWARD B. FITZPATRICK "54 5 THE AAAPLES 
MAGAZINE STAFF 
JAMES D. COONEY '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY JOHN P. THURIN "59 
EDITOR JUNE SHASSERE JEANNINE DOTY 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS BRUCE HARLAN '49 RICHARD STEVENS '51 PETER McGRATH '70 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 

ROSLYN ESTATES, N.Y. 11576 
NOTBE DAUE 

JOHN J. REIDY '27 11850EDGEWATERDR. LAKEWOOD, OHIO 44107 
LEONARD H. SKOGLUND '38 
MMmm 
426 DOVER AVE. 
ai 

LAGRANGE PARK, ILL 60525 





