The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Founders Honored 
(Pages 3, 4, 6 and 8) 

History Published 
(Page 12) 
Two N. D. 

Governors 
(Page 13) 


Additional Military Men 
(Page 18) 

A Hundred Years Later: Midshipman at Monument to Founders, Log Chapel in Background. 

Vol. 21 DECEMBER, 1942 No. 2 

Gift and Tax Information, 1942 
Interesting Data Prepared ior Alumni and Friends by Public Relations Department. 
When the United States entered World War II, the University of Notre Dame accelerated its program, revised its cur­ricula, converted part of its facilities to governmental needs, released many mem­bers of its faculty for special duty else-w^here, and otherwise geared itself to the war effort. Meanwhile, it continued its service to the cause of Christian Amer­ican education, knowing that the need of its influence in rebuilding a world on Christian principles will be greater after the war than ever before. Many other colleges and universities are carrying on in the same way. 
Like other schools and colleges, Notre Dame is performing a two-fold task in a time of increasing problems. Costs of operation have risen and normal rev­enues have declined. All institutions of higher learning also face the certainty that as government dips deeper into the reservoir of manpower, college enroll­ments will be so seriously affected as to endanger survival. Already fifty of the nation's colleges have closed their doors, and scores of others face bankruptcy. Most of those thus far affected are jun­ior colleges, small technical schools, or liberal arts colleges with normal enroll­ments from 100 to 400. 
The difference between Notre Dame and other schools of equal rank is that she must survive and continue to operate without the advantage of strong finan­cial reserves. One hundred and forty-six American colleges and universities have endowments of $2,000,000 or more. Notre Dame's unrestricted endowment is now $1,010,000. 
This is Notre Dame's Centenary year. From the day of her foundation, she has earned her own way, achieving her pres­ent place among American universities with a minimum of means, but with a wealth of courage and perseverance. On­ly twice before has she asked for aid— once in 1921 when the endowment fund was begun, and again about a decade ago when it was decided to build a memorial to the late Knute K. Rockne. 
Notre Dame's Centenary coincides with her greatest opportunity—and re­sp<msibility, -which she shares with all those who believe that "We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are created equal in the sight of God." If this be a true 

statement of our war aims, we ourselves must have firm faith in the principles from which the America of our fathers sprang, and without which our America . cannot survive after the war. We can have faith, and strengthen faith, only to the degree that we support the American tradition of education and train Amer­ican youth to the worth of its objectives. The question is: In the acceleration of the war effort and our concentration up­on the defeat of the Axis, is it wise to lose sight of our ultimate g:oal, which is a nation that lives according to a phil-
Notre Dame's endowment of $1,010,000 is the smallest of any school its size in the United States. Followins is a list of a few representative schools and the endowment 
of each: 
Rochester 
Cornell _ Princeton Oberlin Minnesota ™ _ Michigan Western Reserve Amherst Berea DePamv Creighton — Notre Dame -$51,821,181 - 33,871,539 - 33,273,602 - 19,416,966 _ 17,295,221 _ 16,177,090 - 14,645,912 - 12,289,989 - 10,285,533 _ 6,096,802 - 4,000,000 - 1,010,000 
osophy that emphasizes the rights of the individual as well as his duties; that pro­claims the inviolability of the Bill of Rights and all that it implies? Further­more, is it wise to permit the privately-owned, privately-endowed schools, which are best equipped to lay the foundations for the future, to be placed in jeopardy when there is g:reatest need of them, and when intelligent support will provide the means of their continued existence? 
Estate Gifts 

Because of recent changes in the Fed­eral Revenue Act, many donors who for­merly made gifts out of income now find it advantageous to make gifts out of their estates. These gifts are deductible items in computing the estate tax. 
A person who vrishes to retain the in­come from the property he desires to give during his lifetime may do so by creating an irrevocable trust wherein the gift is made to the trustee during the lifetime of the donor and the trustee pays him the income. Upon his demise, the trust is terminated and title to the property passes to the University. 
G>rporation Gifts 

In the determination of taxable income, contributions made by corporations to religious or educaticmal institutions are deductible to the extent of five per cent of the taxable net income before deduc­tion of such contribution. Payment of the contribution, however, must actually be made during the taxable year. 
Corporation tax rates vary from a min­imum of 25 per cent to an approximate maximum of 90 per cent, depending up­on the amount of income and the liability for excess profits taxes. 
The amount of saving in taxes result­ing from a gift depends upon the max­imum rate of tax to which the particular corporation is subject. This rate is af­fected by so many factors that specific illustration is difficult. In general, it may be said that in years of substantial prof­its corporations can contribute to a pri­vately-supported school like Notre Dame —^a non-profit institution—on a low net-cost basis. 
We invite you or your legal repre­sentative to confer with the University of Notre Dame's tax counsel about the law as it applies to savings on specific gifts. 
For further information, address 

J. Arthur Haley, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
TABLE SHOWING COST OF GIFTS BT INDIVIDUALS UNDER THE 1942 FEDERAL REVENUE ACT* 

(1) Annual Net Income Level Before Maximum Gift of 15% of Net Income 
i 4,000 6,000 8,000 
10,000 20,000 30,000 
40,000 50,000 60,000 
70.000 80,000 90,000 
100.000 150.000 200,000 
250,000 500,000 1,000.000 
(2) (3) Annual Gift Net Out-of­for Maximimi Pocket Outlay Tax Benefits for Each $100 15% of Net of Maximum Income Gift Made 
$ 600 $70 900 75 1,200 72 
1,500 68 3.000 oO 4,500 40 
6,000 38 7,500 32 9,000 28 
10,500 25 12,000 23 13,500 21 
16,000 18 22,500 16 30,000 13 
37,500 12 75,000 12 150,000 32 

^ Computations are based on assumption that all income up to $14,000 is earned income, and that taxpayer is entitled to a $1,200 personal ex­emption. Credits for dependents, capital gains provisions, and the 5% Victory Tax, which ap­plies to 1943 income, are not considered. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Thli mmCBzIae Is pablidied moatUr from October to June, inchuive (except Jaananr). hr the Uninnitr of Nob* 1 
Notre Dune, Indians. Entered sa second class matter October 1. 1939. at the Fostofflec, Notn Damt, TH**— nader tkc 
act cf August 24. 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National f»*Mtr Ahmrai JAMES El. AKMSTRONC, 75 . EAilor; WILUAM R. DOOLEY, 76. Manapni E£lor 
VOL 21 DECEMBER. 1942 No.2 
Honor Founders in Centenary Observance 
The arrival. 100 years before of Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, and the seven Brothers who founded the University of Notre Dame was solemnly and brilliantly observed on the campus on Nov. 26, Thanksgiving Day. 
A solemn pontifical Mass in Sacred Heart Church, celebrated by Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, provided the principal observ­ance of the long-awaited day. A capacity congregation — priests. Brothers, nuns, students, alumni and many other friends of the school — assisted at the Mass and listoied to the magnificent sermon of Rt. Rev. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, D.D., na­tionally noted orator of the Catholic University of America, which is printed in its entirety elsewhere in this issue. 
Other ofiBcers of the Mass were: Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, assistant priest; Rev. Bernard J. Ill and Rev. Matthew J. Schumacher, deacons of honor; Rev. Jo­seph'A. Maguire, deacon of the Mass; Rev. Thomas P. Irving, sub-deacon of the Mass; Rev. William R. Connor, mas­ter of ceremonies; and Rev. Leo W. Gorman, assistant master of ceremonies. Rev. Patrick J. Carroll and Rev. George 
J. Marr were chaplains to Bishop Noll, and Rev. William A. Bolger and Rev. Louis M. Kelly were chaplains to Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., bishop of Indianapolis. 
The music of the Mass was by the University Choir of Moreau Seminary and the University Glee Club, both di­rected for the occasion by Rev. Carl Hager, director of the choir. Prof. Daniel 
H. Pedtke, director of the Glee Club, was at the organ. 
' Following the Mass a commemorative plaque, designed for the Centenary by Eugene Kormendi of the University, was unveiled and blessed in the vestibule of the church by Bishop Ritter. 
Msgr. Sheen Pleaches Brilliant Sermon; 
Ceremony Held at Foundera' Monument; 
Additional Broadcast of 100 Years' Story. 
With the conclusion of the church services, a procession wound its way (in frigid weather more than a little roninis­cent of the day of the founders' arrival) to the space near the Log Chapel and the nearby monument to the founders. There Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, offered a prayer for the founders (which is printed completely in this is­sue) and Father O'Donnell, in conclud­ing remarks, thanked all who had con­tributed to the day's success and signifi­cance. 
The sermon of Msgr. Sheen was broad­cast to the nation by the Blue Network. The previous night, Nov. 25, at 10:30 pjn. CWT, NBC presented to the nation from Chicago "The Story of Notre Dame," a dramatization of the Univer­sity's hundred years of life written by Prof. Richard Sullivan of the Depart­ment of English with music by Prof. 
Pedtke. This production, beautifully con­ceived and ideally executed, was received with enthusiastic acclaim in all parts of the country. The script is printed in this issue of the ALUMNUS. 
The importance of the Founding Day observance was emphasized by the pres­ence of three newsreel companies. Para­mount, Fox Movietone, and Universal Newsreel, which sent representatives to the campus to record the events for the millions of the nation's movie-goers. 
The observance of the Centenary will continue until next September, what. War conditions permitting, there will be a climactic gathering on the campus in connection with the Commencement of that month. Meanwhile, again as War conditions permit, a series of meetings of learned societies will be held here. Sisters will have a centennial observance of their own and various publications will be issued. 
Jeffers Commencement Speaker 
With the announcement that William Jeffers, United States Rubber Adminis­trator, win be the commencement speak­er on Dec. 20, and Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., the baccalaureate preacher, the Class of 1943, receiving its degrees on Dec. 20 under the accelerated program, is assured of two advisors who know a great deal about current affairs. 
Mr. Jeffers, president of the Union Pacific System, was called from a bril­liant career with that organization to restore organization to the threatened rubber chaos in this country. Frequent reports of his work and his own willing­ness to express his convictions have kept the American public informed and as­sured of the work that is being done to secure the maximum results from the na­tural and synthetic rubber sources of this country under the intense demands of the war. 
Notre Dame's prominent part, thiou^ the late Rev. Julius Nieuwiand, C.S.C, in the discovery of the basic formulae for the production of one of the leading synthetic rubbers, makes Mr. Jeffers se­lection of more than the usual local in­terest. 
Bishop O'Hara, former president of Notre Dame, went from that oSce to become Titular Bishop of Milasa and to devote his time as Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy diocese under Arch­bishop Spellman to the duties of military delegate, in charge of Catholic chaplain service for the armed forces. 
Mr. Jeffers represents the opportuni­ties for young men in America. Begin­(Continned on Page 12) 

Keeping the Faith with God and America 
Though our Divine Savior did so many wonders and worked so many miracles, that, as St. John tells us, if they were written down, the world would not be large enough to contain the book there­of, the Creed nevertheless summarizes His Life in four simple statements: a) Bom of the Virgin Mary, b) suffered, c) died and was buried, d) and the third day rose again. 
Such is the history of Christian men and Christian institutions. 
1) The University of Notre Dame was bom in the year 1842. The first sermon of Father Sorin who founded it was preached in Le Mans, France, on the sub­ject of the Blessed Virgin, Our Lady, under the text: "Qui elucidant me, vitam aetemam habebunt." On the Feast of Our Lady of Snow he left Le Mans for America; on the Feast of the Divine Maternity he reached Vincennes, Indi­ana, the goal of his journey, and on No­vember 26, 1842, in company with the seven Brothers who came with him, he knelt beside a spot called "St. Mary's of the Lakes," and after rechristening it "Notre Dame du Lac" consecrated him­self and his confreres to the Blessed Vir­gin, and thus the University of Notre Dame was bom, as the Creed puts it, "of the Blessed Virgin Mary." 
The Second Period 

The second period in the Creed is "suf­fering." No great work of God was ever accomplished with the first touch of the brush. God seems to be always with those things which have survived a catastrophe. Across the face of the universe, there is written the law that no one shall be crowned unless he has struggled. The angels were not confirmed in glory until they had passed the ordeal of being within an inch of damnation. All visible creation had to be remade after a calam­ity; "Mirabiliter condidisti et mirabilius reformasti." Even the gold in the bowels of the earth must be subject to the purg­ing fire, before it reaches its glory in the chalice of the altar. It is only through 
-Good Friday that one comes to the glory 
of Easter mom; there must be ashes ere 
Phoenix can rise from it. 
Calvary came to Notre Dame in the year 1879, when Father Sorin was des­tined to see his labors vanish into smoke. 
Sennon deliveied by Monsignor Fultoa I. Shaen, 
noted radio orator, at the Centennial Pontifical 
Mass, University of Notre Dome, Nor. 26. 1942. 
As Peter saw the vision of Moses and Elias fade away from the HiU of the Transfiguration and the spectre of Gol­gotha rise in its place, so Father Sorin saw the tents he built vanish to be seen no more. As the great unpentecostal tongues of fire spoke out their message that as man fell to be remade, so the labors of his thirty-seven years were undone that they might be done again. 
Msgr. Sheen speaking irom the pollrit in Sacred Heart Church. 
As the Promethean fires reeled off their macabre dance of death, it was as if an angel with a flaming sword stood at the gates of paradise ushering him into the sad land of dust and ashes. 
Going out among the whirling ruins of his mounded labors, there at his feet, as at the foot of another Calvary, was the statue of Our Lady which once adorned the dome, and which now had crashed, as if seven fiery swords had smitten her heart. But she was still standing. "Stabat Mater dolorosa." 
Another Notre Dcaae 

At a moment like this, when the labor of years whirled as dust, most men would have summoned their confreres into their office, or called an insurance company. This great man addressed himself to St. Joseph in what must have been one of the most dramatic sermons of all times: "Suppose that a very wealthy and power­ful man had lost his wife in a fire. Would he not, if he could, use every effort to rescue his wdfe and restore her to the loving dignity that had been hers? St. Joseph, your spouse lies beneath all this smoking debris. Will you not save her, and place her once again where she was the ruling spirit of our lives?" 
He planned another dome; this time a dome of gold, on which the statue of Our Lady, like his flag of battle, would be unfurled in pledge of .the victory of faith. But there were some realists in the community; today we call them "practical men"—^men who think that the spiritual is incidental to the material— who opposed a dome of gold as Judas had opposed the wasting of the ointment. But Father Sorin was as impractical as His Master who refused to come down from a Cross, even for the practical reason of winning over the executioners, and the impractical man won the day. Our Lady is still the Queen of Notre Dame, looking down on us now from that dome of gold, more glorious in her Assumption than in her first Presentation. Notre Dame was now ushered into the third period of the Creed: "died and was buried." 
In the very year of the fire, 1879, Notre Dame along with all moral and religious education was laid in the grave. At that time the four pallbearers of lib­eralism, science, progress, and relativism arose in Germany, France, Belgium, Hol­land and throughout the English-speak­ing world, to inter what they thought was the corpse of Christian education. Education, it was assumed, could now prosper without God and the sense of right and -wrong, for man was naturally good and progressive; time operated in favor of betterment; evil and sin were due to ignorance, and if men were given more education they would necessarily become better. 
During the War 

From 1879, through the first and now during the second world war, the mod­em world still continued to regard Chris­tian education as a corpse. But now we are at the third day, the day of resurrec­tion. Notre Dame, and the Christian edu­cation for which it stands, is rising from the dead, for the modem world has final­ly come to see, that you cannot preserve human and democratic values on a non-moral and non-religions fotmdation. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
In the light of two world wars, in 21 years, our generation now is forced to admit that once education abandoned moral standards, it could no longer pass judgment on the rightness and wrong­ness of political and economic actior-s; that once schools ceased to develop and refine the moral sense, the only difference between the educated and the uneducated, 
• was not the wisdom which prepares for moral leadership, but information which only equips for quiz-programs; that the youth of the world has suddenly become revolutionary, not because it did not have economic advantages — for never before did it have so many — but because it had lost the purpose of the goal of life which religion alone can insure; that once ethi­cal standards are abandoned in educa­tion, there is no criterion except power, and with it the increasing prospect of increasing wars and revolutions of nihil­ism; that once the Divine Logos as the source of Truth was forgotten, there was no difference between truth and propa­ganda, and that all a party had to do to seize a nation was to confiscate the vehi­cles of propaganda: the radio and press, as it did in Germany, and w'ho could say they were wrong, for the universities had 
already denied there was any difference between right and wrong. As Dr. Ein­stein himself has said, when the revolu­tion broke out in Germany he looked to the universities to protest, but he found them helpless. "Only the Church stood squarely across the path of Hitler's cam­paign for suppressing Truth .. . I am now convinced and forced to confess that what I once despised I now praise un­reservedly." 
Philosophy oi Expediency 

If there was any day in which ethical relativism, the denial of an absolute dis­tinction between right and wrong col­lapsed, it was on December 7, 1941. For years the Japs had been studying phi­losophy in American institutions; they learned that the distinction between right and wrong was only a point of view; they heard William James, quoted say­ing: "Whatever is advantageous in terms of cash value is right." They took the ideas back to Japan and on December 7th, flew across an ocean and bombed Pearl Harbor. Were they right? On the basis of ethical relativism they were. Now, we have learned that the absolute distinction which Notre Dame and Chris­tian education preserved alone — could say that they were wrong and we were right. 
Thus did education come to the tragic vision that a high degree of scientific advancement could exist alongside of utter moral depravity and prompt Mr. Lippman to warn us that one of the first 
Bishop Noll celebnrtM ih* Ccntnaitd 
things we must do when this war is over, is to hold a rendezvous with education and to restore its greatest essential: the moral distinction between right and wrong. 
But what was Notre Dame and Chris­
tian education doing all this time the 
world thought it dead? It was really 
keeping faith in the Declaration of Inde­
pendence by preserving in our national 
life a belief in God, from whom this doc­
ument said, all our rights are derived; 
it was keeping faith with George Wash­
ington who in 1796 warned us that "rea­
son and experience both forbid us to 
expect that national morality can pre­
vail in exclusion of religious principle"; 
it was keeping faith with Lincoln who 
said: "It is-the duty of nations as well 
as of men to owe their dependence upon 
the overruling power of God, and to rec­
ognize the sublime truth announced in 
Holy Scripture and proven by all history, 
that these nations alone are blessed"; 
it was keeping faith with our President who said: "Only a spiritual regeneration can save the world." And while many of her older sister universities which began as she did, as religious institutions com­pletely abandoned both their religion and morality, Notre Dame kept its faith with this great country and now on this the third day rises to her glory as one of the greatest educational institutions in our land, and from the viewpoint of influ­ence, indeed the greatest. 
Notre Dame enter into your heritage! Lead a darkened world back again into the Light. You have been a living proof as an institution of what the Pacific hero. Commander Shea, wrote to his little son: "Be a good Catholic, and yoa wOl always be » good American." ; 
Notre Dame yoa were bom of the '^^r­gin Hary; she stood with yoa inthe fiie of 1879; she watched by year tomb and now she is in the midst of yoar ehfldicn, abiding in prayer in the Peiteeosta! centenary. 
Notre Dame, Oar Lady, through whose iwrtals of the flesh the Eternal Word came into history, be the portals throoi^ which the Word will become flesh in the lives and hearts and souls of America. 
Notre Dame, who has been loved by more than any woman who ever lived, continue to be the patroness <^ the Uni­versity, who has more alomni than it ever had students, more devotion than it has enroUment, and more sons than it ever begot. 
Notre Dame, as in the beginning thoa wert a living dborium that once housed the great Captain Christ, so be now the House of Gold with a Dome of Gold, to welcome those whom That Son called His brethren, the Church calls her children, and whom thoa dost call Notre Dame men—Our toady's men. ^ 
Notre Dame who once stood under a Cross, and who on the eve of thy great Feast saw the country which is dedicated to Thy Immaculate Conception, deeet­fully bombed at Pearl Harbor, be, we beseech thee^ daring this war "terrible as an army drawn up in battle array," that with Thee and with Thy Son thoa mayest be Our Qusen of Peace, and Guardian of great Notre Dame that has kept its faith with God and conntry. 
• o n FauMts MOSOIM* 

SchomodMr. HI end Iniag. 
works brought by their hands. It is to 
the Founder of Notre Dame and his co-laborers, both priests and Brothers, that 

Prayer of Thanks we owe this century-old university which increases in fidelity to the ancient medi­
(Following is the beautiful prayer of thanks offered up by the Superior Gen­eral of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, on the occasion of the Centenary celebration, Nov. 20, 1942.) 
Our Lady of the Seven Dolors, Patroness of the Congregation of Holy Cross, behold us assembled in prayer in the Log Chapel where the Very Reverend Edward Soriii knelt a hundred years ago. To Thee he consecrated himself, his suc­cessors and all the future students of the institution he was about to found. His consecration was a pledge that we, his followers, should dedicate our lives and all our activities to Thy glory under Thy benevolent protection. We have seen to it that Father Sorin's word was kept so far as human frailty has allowed. In return. Most Holy Mother, Thou hast ever watched over us from Heaven with unfailing kindness. 
In my own name, and in the name of my spiritual sons, I return Thee thanks on this centennial morning for the many favors granted in this Country which is so dear to our hearts. Mayest Thou be forever blessed, O Sweet Virgin Mary, our Patroness and our Mother! 
In Thy name, O Sovereign Queen, Father Sorin and seven companions: Brothers Francis Xavier, Gatien, Pat­rick,. Basil, William, Peter and Francis took possession of a tract of land known as Notre-Dame-du-Lac. For the past cen­tury the work of these valiant pioneers has been carried on by a multitude of generous apostles, many of whom now share the Founder's eternal reward. However, only their bodies lie buried in the past; their immortal souls dwell in the eternal vision of God. They now en­joy indescribable bliss, for they have been admitted to heavenly felicity; and they possess the assurance of never los­ing the reward which their sacrifices and labors in the service of God merited them. For them, tears shall be no more. Their trials and struggles are over. Their faith has become certitude; their hope reality; their love beatific vision. O, the fullness of celestial ecstasies! Fill their souls with heavenly light in these troubled times. Quoniam dies mali sunt (Ephes. V. 16) We feel trampled under foot in this bloody war which involves all peoples; our bodies are bruised and we lose courage as we look with saddened eyes at the frightful task which lies 
ahead of us. De profundis clamavi ad te. 
Domine. Yes, we are afraid we may fall into the very depths of the abyss. There­fore, we seek the company of our de­
parted priests and Brothers who live in the presence of God and His angels. We ask the Founder of this great Catholic university and the Father in Christ of so many spiritual sons to fill our souls with strength and courage. We lift our hearts to God in fervent prayer as we say: Domine, exaudi vocem meam. O Lord, hear our prayers! And do Thou, O Blessed Virgin Mary, present our suppli­cation to the eternal Throne of Jesus Christ our Saviour. We give thanks to God and to Thee, O Virgin most matern­al, for all the favors we have received through the intercession of our beloved dead ever present in our midst. New and stronger ties bind them more closely to the great family of Holy Cross. These honored dead still look after the great work they achieved at the cost of so many sacrifices, the greatest undoubtedly being the immolation of their consecrat­ed lives. They intercede for us before Almighty God; they mingle their plead­ings with those of our heavenly protect­ors, with Thine, O Blessed Virgin, and with Thine, O St. Joseph. So it is rather by their merits than by our work that we obtain the blessings which astonish us and put Notre Dame on equal footing with the leading universities of the United States. 
Yes, the spirit of our dead brethren is ever alive among us in the manifold eval tradition. Their spirit of progress still animates this university's develop­ment and prosperity. Even in death, the voices of former presidents and profes­sors, lay and religious, rise in never-ceasing accents to summon us to higher achievements. It is our privilege to en­joy the campus they beautified, to pray with recollection at the Grotto of Lourdes built with Marian love by hum­ble religious who had dedicated their lives to obscure tasks. The varied species of trees and shrubs that beautify the campus, the lakes reflecting Our Lady's dome, the carpets of green which soothe our tired eyes, the long, peaceful paths inviting us to meditation and prayer, tes­tify to the poetic inspiration and the unceasing devotion of our predecessors. 
Among those who set foot here in 1842, the name of one of Thy faithful sons, O Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven, spontan­eously comes to mind: I mean dear Fath­er Sorin who was sent to the United States by Father Founder Moreau to establish the work of Holy Cross in America. His first permanent foimdation is the University of Notre Dame, a monu­ment of Catholic Faith, completely dedi­cated to the best interests of our Coun­try and the highest aims of sovmd learn­ing. The statue of Father Sorin, on its granite pedestal, rises on the campus to remind us of his eminent moral stature which succeeding generations have looked up to as the pattern of their manhood. The great work of the Founder of Notre 

Father ODonnell conclude* the Foimdar'a Day Calebrotion. Alao prominent in the foreground ore Bishop Bitter. Father Steinar. pravindal. and Father Couaineau. 
The Notre Da me Alumnus 
Dame is, iirst of all, a beautiful poem 
to Thee, O Mary Virgin and Mother, 
Whom he loved above all other saints. 
He set Thy image on the summit of the 
dome over the Administration building 
as a token of his confidence in Thee. 
Moreover, a place was chosen for Thee in 
the Grotto where Thy children lovingly 
repeat from dawn to dusk: "Mary help 
lis, help toe pray; help us in all care and 
sorrow; Mary help us, help we pray." 
Thanks to Father Sorin's apostolate of love, Thou dost truly live in the hearts of those who pray to Thee; Thou art the cause of whatever holiness of life we have attained; Thou art the model we strive daily to imitate. Remember, 0 Mary, the devotion Father Sorin didst pledge to Thee. Was not his Marian piety one of his most authentic titles to glory? It was and it always will be the source of all fruitful religious activity here at Notre Dame. 
O Blessed Mother, look do\vn upon us and deign to bless forevermore the edu­cational work Father Sorin established here. The Founder of Notre Dame was pleased to find, upon his arrival in Amer­ica, true liberty which he cherished, of which he often spoke in praise and through which he worked wonders. As Father Sorin did a hundred years ago I, today, give homage to the United States of America, the only Country, by virtue of her Constitution, to grant fair play to the Catholic Church. Let us hope that the spirit of justice and tolerance will spread throughout the world, that all re­ligious persecution, however disg^uised it may be, will soon perish from the earth. Father Sorin built the walls of Notre Dame under the protective, outspread wings of the proud and mighty American eagle. He drew up a program of studies which, down to this day has retained his spirit in spite of the modifications made necessary by this ever-changing world of ours. The Reverend Hugh O'Donnell has pointed out that Notre Dame changes, but forever remains the same. "Notre Dame still emphasizes the discipline of the- spiritual, the intellectual and the moral. Here you will always find the first principles from which all true develop­ment proceeds. This is still the Notre Dame of Father Sorin and his worthy successors " 
All honor to the intrepid Founder of Notre Dame! Inspired by God, he built a bulwark of the Catholic Faith in the Middle West. Consequently, the people in this part of the United States are large­ly indebted to Father Sorin for their spiritual wealth. 
Have pity, O Lord, on those of ours who now sleep the sleep of death. Through Thy Blessed Mother we beg of Thee, Lord Jesus, that they may share 
•Father Sorin's eternal reward. If Fath­
er Sorin, at times, had recourse to strong action, his dealings with his fellowmen were motivated by the supernatural, so ardently and generously did he endeavor to work for Thy glory under the watch­ful eye of Mary. Hear his prayer and listen to the petitions of Father Moreau, the founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Bless the work of these two great souls and bless the efforts of their com­panions and their successors. Today, they are dead, stripped of everything which they loved in life, but like the grain of wheat falling on good ground they have yielded fruit a hundredfold. 
In this centennial year may our tears and prayers obtain from Thy mercy and kindness, 0 Lord, eternal happiness for our deceased Fathers and Brothers, should their great sacrifices and holy deaths be found insufficient thus far to admit them to the joy of seeing Thy Divine Face. Lord Jesus, bless our pre­decessors in the works of their succes­sors. What we ask of Thee, 0 Lord, is the privilege of working for Thy glory. Never be it said that we are unprofitable servants in the household of the Faith. 
-This morning, O Lord, on the very spot where Father Sorin solemnly prom­ised to glorify Thy Blessed Mother, we renew our pledge to love her, so that Thou mayest be better known and loved. Look with favor upon our consecration to Thy all beautiful Heavenly Mother, who is also our mother, a mother hon­ored here for the past century under the magnificent title of Our Lady of the Lake. 
Finally, for all our beloved dead who rejoice in spirit with us on this mem­orable day, for us who must remain at our tasks, with lively faith, with hearts full of hope and love, we mingle our voices with those of the other members of the Congregation of Holy Cross throughout the world and repeat with the Church the prayer which is ever new and always appropriate: 
De profundis clamavi ad te, Domine. 
ALUMNI ARE RE-ELECTED 

The two Notre Dame men in the House of Representatives were re-elected in the elections on Nov. 3—Joseph P. O'Hara, '20, Glencoe, Minn., and Robert A. Grant, '28, South Bend. Both are Republicans. Congressman Grant defeated Lewis J. Murphy, '26, also of South Bend. 
A third Notre Dame man in the House, Congressman Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Sioux City, la., resigned several months before the election in order to become a major in the Army Air Corps. 
Continuing his term as United States senator from Idaho is D. Worth Clark, '22, LL D., '40. 
REVIEW OF POLITICS 

The November issue of the Review of Polities, published quarterly by the Uni­versity, is dedicated to Notre Dame's 100th anniversary, being observed dur­ing the current academic year. All of the articles and reviews are written in this issue by members of the Notre Dame faculty. 
Waldemar Gurian, European author 
and scholar, since 1937-a member of No­
tre Dame's faculty, has edited the Re­
view from its beginning in the fall of 
1938. Dr. Gurian is the author of Bolshe­
vism, Theory and Practice, one of the 
outstanding books ag^ainst Communism 
today,'and a book. Hitler and the Chris­
tians, characterizing the Nazi danger for 
Christian civilization. Managing editors 
during the same years have been F. A. 
Hermens, European trained political sci­
entist, and Fraiik O'Malley, young Notre 
Dame scholar. 
Leading article is "The Sources of Hitler's Power," by the editor. Dr. Gur­ian. Another article is authored by Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, the University archivist, "The Catholic Church in the United States Between Two Wars." Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, author of the newly published Nova Scotia and tlie Coopera­tives, presents for Review readers an ex­cellent analysis of "The Social Signifi­cance of Cooperatiion." 
Willis D. Nutting, associate professor of history at Notre Dame, Oxford gradu­ate with an Iowa background, a rising authority on agrarianism in this coun­try,. contributes "On Freedom and Re­form." Dr. Hermens, author of Dem­ocracy and Anarchy, treats the subject of proprotional representation in its con­nection with democracy and the experi­ence in Europe with the combination. 
Frank O'Malley, managing editor, in addition to the leading editorial of dedi­cation, contributes a very signficant treatment of "Religion and the Modem Mind," of particular importance in a war eriod which involves so much reference to religious factors. 
Book reviews, a regrular and popular feature of the Review, are contributed in this issue by Dr. Gurian, Father McAvoy and Professors Francis E. McMahon and Matthew A. Fitzsimons. Prof. Fitzsimons reviews the new book. The Rodd to Vichy, by Notre Dame's professor, Yves Simon. 
FATHER MOONEY ARMY CHAPLAIN 
Rev. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C, '16, is the 15th member of the United States province of the Congregation of Holy Cross to begrin military work. Father Mooney was commissioned a chaplain in the Army and assigned to the Adjutant General's School, Fort Washington, Md. 

The Story of Notre Dame 
This radio play was written by Professor Richard SuUiTon. a fdealty m*mb«r of the De­partment of English, at the University of Notre Dame. It woe broodcasi orwr a nolion-iride NBC hookup on Wednesday night November 25, from 10:30 to IIM, CStntrd War lime. 
THE STORY OF NOTRE DAME 
MUSIC: {Full, then doicn as back­ground.) 
ANNOUNCEE: On this eve of Thanksgiv­ing, The University of Notre Dame, celebrating the one hundredth year of its founding, presents— 
NABBATOB: The Story of Notre Dame! MUSIC: {Up full, then cut.) A hundred years have ended. Tonight we remember the beginning, the meag­re, stranjge beginning, of a story full of the hope and courage of America— SOUND: {wind, loio as background.) 
You hear that wind? 
Listen. 
SOUND: {ivmd, %ip, then occasion­ally low through folloioing.) 
It's blowing now the way it blew the day the schooner Iowa sailed into port at New York a hundred and one years ago, September 13, 1841. That was a Thursday, like tomorrow. The master of the Iowa was Captain Pell. Among the passengers were Father Edward Sorin and six Religious Broth­ers. They had crossed the Atlantic that summer from France. 
SOUND: {wind; water; creaking of oars.) 
You hear the sound of oars in water? Late that Thursday afternoon Father Sorin was rowed ashore in a small boat. And Sorin did something when he got ashore that men had done be­fore him and men have done since— He knelt and 
SORiN: {deep voice, softly, slight French accent) I kiss the earth of America. MUSIC: {Up.) And now, my Brothers, We.have work to do! 
MUSIC: {Up. Softly, background.) 
NARRATOR: Yes, they had work to do. A month later these seven were a thousand miles deep in this American continent. They were at Vincennes, in Indiana. There's a lot I could tell yon about Vincennes— They were there a year. But the real thing is that while they were there, and before they got there, even before they'd left the old world for the new one, Sorin had kept one purpose clear— They had work to do: they were going to start a college. He didn't know where and he didn't know when, but they were going to do it. When time and place came he knew he would know how. It took that year to. find the place. In the fall of forty-two the Bishop of Vincennes gave them some land on a couple of little lakes up in the dbow bend of the St. Joe River in the northern part of Indiana. Win­ter came early and fierce that year. The trip was two hundred-sixty miles. They went by ox and by horse, ford­ing slush and crossing ice, fighting the snow and the iron cold, and on the eleventh day. 
MUSIC: {up slightly, accelerated.) 
the twenty-sixth of November, 1842— a hundred years ago, tomor;-ow, then, at ten o'clock in the morning. Father Sorin and his Brothers in religion— crossed the St. Joe River on blue-white ice and came to— 
MUSIC: (citt.) 
SORIN : {softly—slight French accent) Notre Dahm du Lac! Everything froz­en, and yet—it is all so beautiful. . . I think we all feel like little children— We would like to run along the shore of the lake, in spite of the cold! 
NABEATOB: That was what Father Sorin said. Not words made up for a radio program, but his words. A little while later that morning he and his compan­ions gathered in the old mission chapel that was set back from -the shores of St. Mary's lake— 
SORIN {softly) 
Holy Mother of God—Notre Dahm du lac—with my Brothers and myself, I present to thee now at this moment all those generous souls whom Heaven shall be pleased to call round me on this spot and all who shall come after me. 
MUSIC: {up very brief; cut.) 
NARRATOR: —and all who shall come after him. A handful of men in the snow—^Today there are 3000 students in residence at Notre Dame. And those who have come after Sorin have come from every one of the forty-eight states of our Union—^from Alaska and Cana­da and Brazil, from the Canal Zone and China, from Mexico and Peru, the 

Three minutes to go. Froa left to right: Fort Pearson, noTTator, NBC: ProL Hidiard  Hawaiian  Islands and West  Africa—  
SnlliTan. author of script- Ed King, NCB production directon Bev. James-Couerion.  Other  places too—say  the six conti­ 
OS.C  chairman of committee in charge of broadcost: Dr. Boy Shield. NBC cenlial  nents and the seven seas have all sent  
division music director; and ProL Daniel Pedtke who wrote the original music.  men  to Notre  Dame—^that  gives you  

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the idea, A handful of men in the snow. • 
(PAUSE) But between then and now—struggle and strain, fervor and fever, death and growth between then and now. 
MUSIC: 

VOICE: (cutting in sharp) The malaria! 
NABRATOR: Yns, the malaria. Between 18.'>2 and '56, at the worst time of all a third of the community—priests, Brothers, and nuns—died of malaria. 
MUSIC: 

VOICE (cutting in) The Civil War! 
NARRATOR: I'm not forgetting—^that was the first.war for Notre Dame. 
SOUND: (distant galloping.) The governor of Indiana sent a courier to the campus, appealing for help, nurses and chaplains. The nuns went as nurses, and Notre Dame sent more chaplains to the Union Armies than any other community or diocese in the country. 
MUSIC: 

VOICE: Father Corby at Gettysburg! 
NARRATOR: Yes . . . that's a story to re­member. SOUND: (Loio croiod noises dis­tant rumble of cannon) 
Four o'clock in the afternoon of July 2, 1863. The battle of Gettysburg has already begun. 
SOUND: (Loio distant rumbling as background to following:) 

Father William Corby of Notre Dame, now chaplain to the famous Irish Brig­ade, stands on a great black rock in the midst of Union soldiers— 
CORBY: Men, I need not remind you of the high and sacred nature of your trust, and of the noble object for which you fight. I have proposed to your commander that before going into battle I give to all of you a general absolution. 
SOUND: (Croivd murmurs.) 

CORBY: This is intended—in so far as it can be—ifct only for our brigade but for all. North and South, who are sus­ceptible to it— 
SOUND: (Distant rumble.) and who this day are about to appear 
•before their Judge. 
SOUND: (Distant scattered hurst of rifle fire, distant rumble of cannons. Crowd murmurs, shuf­fling sounds. Then hush.) 

NARRATOR (softly): They're all kneeling— SOUND: (Distant scattered bursts of rifle fire. Distant nvmble of cannon. Then, up close, ermvd 
murmurs, shuffling sounds. Then hush.) 

NARRATOR: (softly) They're all kneeling. Catholics and non-Catholics. The priest high on the rock is raising his right hand over them. 
CORBY: "Dominus Noster Jesus Christus vos absolvat, et ego auctoritate ipsius, vos absolvo ab omni vinculo (murmur­ing now) excommunicationis et inter­dicti in quantum possum et vos indi— 
getis (clearly) deinde ego absolve vos, a peccatis vestris, SOUND: (Sharp rattle of rifles, 
off.) 

in nomine Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti. SOUND: (Boom of cannon, off.) AMEN! MUSIC: (low but gathering strength and intensity.) 
NARRATOR: There is so much to remem-. ber. Hours of days and men and the rolling years. 
VOICES: The fire! 
NARRATOR: April 23, 1879, in its thirty-seventh year, Notre Dame burned to the ground. Listen! 
SOUND: (Loiv crackling as back­ground.) 

It's eleven o'clock on an April mom­ning. Bright sun, clear sky, and a spring-sweet wind. 
SOUND: (crackle of flames close wp.) 

VOICE: (in distance) College on fire! 
VOICE: (closer, higher pitch) College*on fire! SOUND: (croivd cries; crackling.) 
VOICES: (rising pitch) Fire! Fire! Fire! 
SOUND: (crotvd and crackling, con­tinued as background to follow­ing.) 

N.4RRAT0R: (loia excited voice) You can see it now, it's on the east side of the dome of the college building. Grey-black smoke. The wind takes it away. Quick sharp tongues of flame. They look mean. They look white against the blue sky, yellow-white and mean. Against the smoke they're red. And they're spreading! It's a pitch roof! You can't see the flame now for smoke. You can't see the roof now for red fire! They're carrying water. 
SOUND: (Background of shouts, crackling, many footsteps hur­rying.) 

Priests and Brothers and teachers and students, they're running with buckets and tubs of water. Wait! Hey! What's that? Two students just ran by with a glass case of stuffed animals. They're briaging out books and tmnks, and desks. Thore goes a boy with a framed painting as Kg as he is! They say the water pipes' have burst.: Thafs wliy they're carrying water. •. 
SotfND: (Cnuh of timber; eraek­ling.) 

What? What's that?—They tell me two students are trapped up there where the fire's worst. I don't know. 
SOUND: {eragh of timber.) Whew! It's getting hot here, you can feel the heat fifty yards away. And the smoke—it makes your ^yes water. 
What? I can't hear yon! Oh! Those boys who were; trapped are ont safe. They jumped through a burnt floor to the story below— 
SOUND: (Crash, loud eraekHng louder.) 

Ah! The dome! The dome has faOen! That was the dome falHng, that crash you heard. Oh, if s no use now. It's too late. All they .can do is try to save other buildings now: Wind's from the south-west blowing away from the church, so that ong^t to be safe. But the college;— All they can hope for is toisave the other buildings. 
SOUND: {Fire roar up loud to eli­nuu;. Then out.) The college is.gone! MUSIC: (Up softly/. Continued as background.) -. ^ 
Yes, it took the fire three hours that April day to wreck the work of thirty-seven years. At nightfall Notre Dame was a heap of smoking rubble. The night air smelled of ashes. Father Sorin was away. They were almost afraid to send him word. He was sixty-six now, they didn't know how he'd: stand the shock. But they sent a mes­sage, and he came back . . . home; 1 wish I could make you. see the man. . Straight, white-bearded, patriarchal, 
he came to the ruins of his "Notre Dahm 
du lac." Nobody can say how he felt 
. But you know what he did. He called ' the community together in the church —the only building left—and standing on the altar steps he told them, very calmly and confidently, with his faith and his resolution ninning throng^ his ­words like electricity through a tense wire—he told than that a new Notre Dame would be open to students that : falL He had built hetore and he'd build again. . . 
MUSIC: (CM.) S<»iN: (Slight accent) If it were aU' gone I should not give up! NABKATts: That was how he ended. And if they went into the church that day­
as beaten men they came out as build­ers, conscious of hands to work with, ready to rake and sift and clear, raise beams and set stone, lay brick and spread plaster. Out of the dark ashes that summer rose the new Notre Dame, open to students that fall. 
MUSIC: (Swelling and prolonged, about 30 seconds. Then ciit.) 
NARRATOR: The new Notre Dame. A uni­versity sharing in the life and adding to the life of America. How am I going to tell you about Notre Dame, so that right now, tonight, you listening in will get an idea of its con­stant sharing and contributing? What would you like to know? What's perti­nent right now, tonight? Would you like to see past and present come to­gether? See what Notre Dame has done in the past that is still living now, on this eve of Thanksgiving, 1942? 
VOICE 1: Planes! 
VOICE 2: Radio! 
VOICE 3: Rubber! 

NARRATOR: Yes. Planes, radio, and rub­ber. Things of today. Well.... 
VOICE (Sharply): In the 1880's Professor Albert Zahm was experimenting at Notre Dame with gliders launched from the roof of Science Hall and land­ing .in Brownson campus, at Notre Dame. Zahm built the first wind tun­nel. His pioneer contributions to the science of aeronautics were acknowl­edged by the Wright brothers, who followed him and by still later pio­neers. 
NARRATOR: There are some good stories about .Albert Zahm. The night he strapped wings on an assistant and hoisted him up by rope and tackle in the big two-storied foyer of Science Hall and there twirled him round and round—and when the caretaker next morning found footsteps running side­wards twenty feet up on the dusty wall —^he thought ghosts had been walking! But I guess I'm taking up time with stories^ 
VOICE (Sharply): In the 1890's Profes­sor Jerome Green, after four years of experimentation with wireless, dupli­cated Marconi's famous achievement within a month, at Notre Dame. There were technical differences in the meth­ods. But the results were identical. 
NARRATOR: The first wireless message in America was sent by Jerome Green from the church tower at Notre Dame to a receiving set at St. Mary's College a couple of miles away. 
VOICE (Sharply): Back in the 1920's working in the chemistry laboratories at Notre Dame, Father Julius Nieuw­land discovered his formula for syn­thetic rubber. His was the basic work of pioneering. Later developments, based on his formula, have led to the production today of a Synthetic vital to America. 
NARRATOR: Back in 1912 Father Nieuw­land had a laboratory assistant named Knute Kenneth Rockne. He later- be­came well-known in another field. — But you see what I mean now: The past at Notre Dame contributing to the present. And it has not been just planes, radio, and rubber, or the dozen other things I could talk about. No— Most of all—and I feel proud looking back and saying this—^most of all it has been men! 
MUSIC : (up softly as background.) 
It was men in 1917. Something over t\venty-two hundred Notre Dame men in uniform. 
MUSIC: (continues as background.) 

The two bronze tablets at the east door ' of Sacred Heart Church list the names of the Notre Dame war-dead of 1917 and '18. The inscription over that door reads: 
VOICE: "God, Country, Notre Dame. In glory everlasting." 
NARRATOR: And the windows there, lead-ribbed, stained glass, rich with sun, ruby-colored and deep blue, are win­dows of the warrior Saints, Michael and Joan of Arc. 
MUSIC : (up briefly, then cut.) SOUND: (occasional loiv rumbling of heavy guns as background ^ through following.) 
There was the time Father Matt Walsh, Vice President of the University, in France as a chaplain, looked up and down the trenches at night for an en­listed man who had quit school at Notre Dame just before commence­ment of his senior year, without wait­ing for a diploma. 
WALSH: Dan!—Oh, Dan McGlynn! MCGLYNN: Father Walsh! WALSH : I've been looking for you. MCGLYNN: It's good to see you! WALSH: Dan, they want men for officers training at once— They need them badly. I told them about you. MCGLYNN: But Father, they want col­lege graduates. WALSH: YOU finished your work at Notre Dame. MCGLYNN: But I've no diploma, no de­gree! WALSH: We'll have them mail the diplo­ma from home, Dan. And as to the degree— (sloittly) By virtue of the authority vest­ed in me as vice-president of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame du lac, and in the absence of the president and the 
rest of the faculty I here and now con­fer upon you, Daniel McGlynn, the de­gree of bachelor of laws. 
MUSIC: (up loud. Then cut.) 
NARRATOR: Stories of men and of Notre Dame. The 1920's now, when some people first began to think about Notre Dame as the place where the football teams came from— 
SOUND: (Crowd sounds; cheer­ing.) MUSIC: (Dim background of Vic­tory March.) 
The Four Horsemen, the National 
Champions, Coach Rockne— MUSIC: (Cut.) SOUND: (Cut.) 
Rockne... Everybody knows his story, and knowing it, knows something of Notre Dame. 
SOUND: (Distant sound of plane 
•motor, idling, getting louder as hurried footsteps sound over it.) 
VOICE: Just in time, Mr. Rockne. They're ready to take off. 
SOUND: (Door click, roar of plane motor, gradually diminishing, as in distance. Plane sound oit. Phone bell. Pause. Phone bell. Click of receiver.) 
VOICE: (slight Irish brogue) Hello. . . . Yes . . . This is Notre Dame. Whom do you want? .. . IFfiat?—You're sure? Yes 
SOUND: (Click of phone receiver.) 
The plane crashed. Rockne's—dead! 
SOUND: (Babble of voices, break­ing off.) 
MUSIC: (for each of following and sivelling up louder again imme­diately.) 
VOICE: Did you hear about—? MUSIC VOICE: It's just a rumor! MUSIC VOICE: It's on the radio! It's in the paper! Rockne's dead! MUSIC VOICE: Rockne?—dead? MUSIC 
SOUND: (Babble loud and confused, rising. Then cut.) MUSIC: (Up softly.) 
NARRATOR: That was on March 31, 1931. On April 5 Father Charles O'Donnell, then president of the University, preached Rock's funeral sermon. MUSIC: (Swelling, then cut.) 
O'DONNELL: What was the secret of his irresistible appeal to all sorts and con­ditions of men? I think, supremely, he loved his neighbor, his fellowman, with genuine, deep love, giving himself, spending himself like water, not for himself but for others. And once again in his case, most illustriously is verified the Christian paradox—^he has 
•cast away to keep, he has lost his life 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
to find it. This is not death but im­mortality. O Mother of God and Mother of God's men, we £:ive him into thy keeping. Mary, gate of Heav­en, open to receive him. Mary, Morn­ing Star, shine upon his sea. Mary of Notre Dame, take him unto thy House of Gold. Our Life, our Sweetness, and our Hope, we lay him in thy bosom. 
Eternal rest grant him, O Lord— 
CROWD VOICES: And let perpetual light shine upon him. 
MUSIC: (Up, swelling and pro­longed. Then cut.) 

NABBATOR: Yes . . . And that just about brings the story—the way I'm telling it, with gaps and jumps—^the full way round. Poverty and malaria, fire and war, death and growth. The hundred and first year is starting. A hundred years— It's a long enough time to cel­ebrate gratefully. But if looking back over it and feeling the good warm htmian pride that's natural looking back, you then do what those men did a hundred years ago, if you look ahead, as they did, to the other years, the coming ones, 1952, 1982, 2042, well, then time grows meaningful, somehow, and Notre Dame's first hundred years grow meaningful, because — Today Notre Dame is not just a university with all the v-programs and reserve corps and war training classes for ci­vilians that go today with Universities. It is also a United States Naval train­ing base. Twelve hundred fifty future ofiicers of the Navy are today in train­ing on the campus of Notre Dame under Captain Henry P. Burnett. Listen. 
SOUND: (Marching feet) "Hup-2-3­4! Hup! -2-3-4!" "Halt!" (Cut 
marching.) 

That's one part of Notre Dame today. The Notre Dame that Father Sorin founded on the earth of midwestern America. 
SOUND: (Footsteps, hurrying.) 

STUDENT A (groaning) These eight o'clock classes! 
STUDENT B : We'll be late again. The bell's due. STUDENT A: Come on. We'll take the side door. STUDENT B: He'll throw a quiz today, sure. 
SOUND: {Rattle of door.) 

STUDENT B : What's the matter? STUDENT A: Door's locked. STUDENT B : Push it. It sticks sometimes. 
SOUND: (Rattle of door.) 

STUDENT A: (grunting): Uh-uh. 
SOUND: (Distant bell, like phone bell.) 

STUDENT B : Oh-oh, there's the eight o'clock bell. We're late! STUDENT A: It was never locked before. We've gone in this way other mornings when we were late! STUDENT B : Can you see anybody inside? STUDENT A: No. . . . Wait! Yes! There's a watchman in there! He's coming to the door! STUDENT B: A watchman? What? STUDENT A: I don't know what— 
SOUND: {Door click.) 

WATCHMAN: All right fellows—looking 
for somebody? STUDENT A: We just want to get in! STUDENT B : We're due at an eight 
o'clock class! STUDENT A: Thanks for opening— WATCHMAN: Sorry. Youll have to go 
round to the front door. STUDENT A: But we aliuays use this— STUDENT B : We're late! WATCHMAN: This door is locked from 
now on. Have you a pass to get in? Government research going on down in the basement lab. 
STUDENT A: War research? WATCHMAN: That's right. STUDENT B : Come on, we have to get 
going! 
SOUND: {Footsteps, running, fad­ing off.) 
Our Lady oi the Snow 

NABBATM: Yes . . That's anotho' part of Notre Dame today. The cam­pus, which is the saine as it always was, yet is not quite the same as it al­ways was. There are some doors which do not open now, but they will open again. And there are other doors, new ones, which have opened wide. Over 800 adults, men and women, are en­rolled right now in Notre Dame's war training program, for civil­ians. They were meeting tonight, those classes. They've been over now for about an hour. Some of the people in them aren't even home yet, because they come to Notre Dame from within a radius of about thirty miles. 
VOICE: General Aeronautics! Tool and Die Design! Metallurgy! 
NABBATOB: Those are some of the courses taught. Twenty-six in all, with double sections of some subjects. 
MAN-A: I'm taking Electric Motors and Controls, myself. Seems queer, for an office-worker! 
MAM-B: This Industrial Math—that's what I signed up for. It's the biggest class they have. 
MAN-C: NO—Personnel Administration is the bigg^est. That's the one I'm in! 
MAN-D: My wife and I both signed up for Engineering Drawing. Seems kind of funny to us to be both in school to­gether, after so many years. 
MUSIC: (Up as background.) NABHATOR: And that's another part of Notre Dame today, as it starts its hundred and first year. 
And there are still other things to tell you— There are no bronze tablets on the church door yet for this war's dted. But there is a scroll in the vesti­bule, and the list of names there is growing, to grief but to glory. 
MUSIC: (Up softly background.) And there is another Notre Dame to­day—it's hard for me to explain this but youll see what I mean. Another Notre Dame not here on the campus but everywhere, in far places, on islands and mainlands, in snow and in sand, by sea and by sky, wherever on the round world its men are in bat­tle—students, alumni, chaplains, pro­fessors — three thousand in uniform, now, tonight — "generous souls who shall come after me," Father Sorin called them once in anticipation—^wher­ever its men are tonight in service of God and of country, Notre Dame is there too, tonight. This point in space has spread into human hearts. I could tell yon more, but yon see what I mean about Notre Dame. 
MUSIC: (Up to close.) 

History of University Published 
Will be Released on Tan. 15; Father A. J. Hope Is Author. 
The University Press announces the publication of a new history of the Uni­versity— Notre Dame — One Hundred Years. It is a thoroughly documented and critical work, the first of its kind dealing with the facts and stories about Notre Dame. It will be released to the public on Jan. 15, 1943. 
The author of this new volume is the Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, of the class of 1920. Old students will recall him as a professor of philosophy, but he has in­terested himself in the history of Notre Dame even from the days when he was a seminarian in Holy Cross Seminary. In the summer of 1941, he was commis­sioned by the President of Notre Dame to write the history of the University in connection with the centennial obser\'­ance. 
Father Hope has enjoyed the able co­operation of many assistants. Professor James Corbett has spent the larger por­tion of the past eight years in research. The information he gathered from old records and letters has brought to light many important and interesting facts that shed new light, particularly on the early days of Notre Dame. The Univer­sity archivist, Eev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, has made available the entire Presidential correspondence from the be­ginning of the institution up to the pres­ent times. William T. Farrell, former professor at the University, scoured all the early newspapers of South Bend and obtained much valuable information. 
The first history of Notre Dame ap­peared in 1869; the second, in 1895. It was perhaps unavoidable that they should have been largely laudatory and uncritical. When Father J. Hugh O'Don­nell assigned the task of writing the present volume to Father Hope, he made it clear that he wanted a history, not a fairy story. Consequently, Father Hope has talked freely about many University matters that will not be found in other University publications. 
Those who have read the book in its final draft have praised it highly. Father Hope has not only given the facts, but his presentation is artistic, entertaining and -vvitty. There is nothing in the book that is suggestive of a cold, factual rec­ord. Moreover, the book is handsomely illustrated with 36 gra^^lre prints of out­standing personalities and beautiful views of the campus. .. Notre Davie—One Hundred Years runs to over 500 pages. Besides the textual matter, it contains a splendid biblio­graphy and a complete index. The first printing is limited to 3,000 copies and will sell for $4.00 postpaid. Copies may be ordered through the University Press, Notre Dame, Ind. Distribution cannot begin, of course, until after Jan. 15. 

FOUNDERS HONORED (Continued from Page 3) 
ning as an office boy for the U.P., he 
rose through his ability to be the very 
successful president of the entire system 
in 1937. He knows fi-om his rich back­
ground the things that have made Amer­
ica great. He knows the things for which 
America is now fighting. And he knows 
the minds of young men who face the 
prospect of fighting first for the oppor­
tunities of peace that will follow. 

Bishop O'Hara knows better than any­one else, perhaps, the minds of the young Notre Dame man. As undergraduate, teacher and priest he made friends with his keen mind and his broad interests. But it was during his years as prefect of religion, preceding his presidency, that he studied intensively the trends of the young men of America in the materialis­tic years of the prosperous twenties, and with a religious progi-am that command­
ed world attention moulded at Notre Dame a strong Christian opinion that did most to offset these developments that played havoc with American education elsewhere. 
The Class of 1943, originally to have been graduated with centennial pomp in the June of 1943, has followed the three-semester acceleration of the University program, and finds itself leaving Notre Dame eight months ahead of schedule. 
Most of the 400 undergraduates in the Qass are already marked for military service—some have already gone and will receive their degrees in absentia. Others have long since found the market for trained men demanding their services and are stepping immediately into im­portant defense jobs. 
The imminence of the Christmas holi­days ^Wll exclude many of the ceremon­ies that customarily accompany com­mencement at Notre Dame. But the boys and their families will gather on Dec. 19 and 20 for the deeper significance of the completion of training that has, in 
TJLLV NEW LAY TRUSTEE 
John C Tully, '11, LaGrange, 111., banker, outstanding Catholic layman of the archdiocese of Chicago, has been elected a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University to fill the unexpired term of the late Angus 
D. McDonald, '00, president of the South­ern Pacific Railroad. His election was announced by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, after the regular fall meeting of the Board on Nov. 13. 
Mr. Tully is president of the LaGi-ange National Bank. He was formerly presi­dent of the Bremer-Tully Mfg. Co., Chi­cago radio manufacturers. 
When a Catholic book shop was about to close, Mr. Tully financed its continu­ance as the Thomas More Book Shop, a non-profit Catholic literary center in Chi­cago's loop, which has kept a strong in­terest in this field. 
One of Mr. Tully's three daughters, Mary Louise, was a student in Holland when that country was occupied by the Germans, but escaped to this country safely, and is at present a mem,ber of a newly formed religious community. 
JOHN C TULLY, '11 
Mr. Tully has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and the National Catholic Alumni Federation. He was a roommate at Notre Dame of Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., former president of Notre Dame, now auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy diocese. 
years past, fitted men equally for war and peace. 
In William Jeffers and Bishop O'Hara, the Class of 1943 will go its way well advised. 

.The Notre Dame Alumnus 
TRIP TO SOUTH AMERICA 

Two Governors are N. D. Men 
Very Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, C.S.C, 
superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and the Rev. John J. Cavan­augh, C.S.C, a member of the provincial council of the Congregation and vice-president of the University, began an ex­tended trip through South America, when they left Miami by Pan-American Airways on Dec. 4; in the course of their month's journey they will visit cities in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil. From Rio de Janeiro they will fly to Trinidad and Jamaica before returning to Miami. 
Fathers Cousineau and Cavanaugh will establish educational contacts in South America. Also they planned to visit alumni residents in South America and the parents of Latin American stu­dents now in attendance at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame and the Holy Cross Con­gregation have long been interested in South America. The University cata­logue was printed in Spanish several times during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. This interest reached a peak when the Dome was reprinted in Spanish. 
Another high-point in relations with the Latin Americas was the work of the Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C. Father Zahm made several trips through South Amer­ica, one with Theodore Roosevelt, and wrote several books concerning his trav­els. The University library has a rich collection of South American literature. 
Bishop O'Hara, at present bishop of the Army and Navy diocese, when he was president of Notre Dame continued Notre Dame's policy of friendship wth the other Americas. He was well suited for this role, for he had worked with his father in the American consulate at Montevideo, Uruguay. In this way he became acquainted with all phases of South American life and this experience proved invaluable in later years. In 1938 Father O'Hara served on the United States' commission to the Inter-American Conference in Lima, and in the follow­ing year was appointed chairman of a social service commission which visited Venezuela at the invitation of its presi­dent. 
Father Cousineau was educated in Canada, was professor of French and Greek, became president of St. Laurent College, served in Rome for a while as acting procurator general of the Congre­gation, before assuming the post of su­perior general. Father Cavanaugh joined the Congregation after being graduated from Notre Dame. In so doing, he for-
HARRY F . KELLY, '17 

Two of the 48 states now have Notre Dame-alumni governors. On Nov. 3, Harry F. Kelly, '17, a Republican, was elected governor of Michigan, and Ed­ward P. Carville, '09, a Democrat, was re-elected governor of Nevada. Over the years both have been consistently among the most steadfast of Notre Dame men. 
Harry is the current president of the Alumni Association. In 1938 he was elected secretary of state of Michigan and was re-elected in 1940, receiving the largest vote ever given a candidate on a Michigan state ticket. He will assume the governorship on Jan. 1. 
A veteran of World War I, wherein he lost a leg at Chateau Thierry, Harry 
sook a promising career in the sales pro­motion department of the Studebaker Corporation. 
BROTHER ENGELBERT DIES 

Brother Engelbert, C.S.C, (Bernard Leisse) 84, dean of the Holy Cross Brothers in the United States, died at the Community Infirmary at Notre Dame, Oct. 29, after a brief illness. Brother Engelbert was the oldest living Brother of the Congregation. 
Born in Seidlinghausen, Germany, in 1858, he was for many years a teacher in parochial and high schools in Coving­ton, Ky., Ft. Wayne, Ind., and New .Or­leans, La. Among his distinguished pu­pils was Most Rev. John F. Noll, bishop 
EDWARD P. CARVILLE, '09 

moved to Detroit from his native Ottawa, III., in 1922, after serving as state's at­torney for four years. With his father and his brother, Emmett, '19, he became a member of the legal firm of Kelly, Kelly and Kelly, serving later as assist­ant prosecuting attorney and, still later, as local manager of the Michigan Liquor Control Commission. 
Governor Carville was elected to the Nevada governorship in 1938. He had been district attorney of Elko County, Nevada, district judge for the fourth judicial district of the. state and United States district attorney for the state, serving with marked distinction in all these oiBces. 
of Fort Wayne. Superior of the Brothers Normal School at Notre Dame from 1898 to 1902, Brother Engelbert served as president of Holy Cross College, New Orleans, from 1912-1919, and again from 1927 to 1933. He served as purchasing agent at Notre Dame from 1920-1927 and afterwards as treasurer of the Uni­versity until his retirement some four years ago. 
MEET IN PORT HURON 

The Notre Dame group of Port Huron, Mich., in conjuction with the Port Huron University of Michigan Club, held a din­ner and smoker in Port Huron on Nov. 
10. Arrangements were in charge of Jack Young, and the affair was attended by eastern Michigan Notre Dame men. ,. 
y > AloHUU 
•pECENTLY promoted from colonel to 
brigadier general in the United States Marines was Francis Patrick Mulcaky, '14, Notre Dame's most illus­trious flying fighter. 
Enlisting in the Marines as a buck private in May, 1917, a month after the start of the World War I, General Mul­cahy came out of the war a first lieu­tenant after heroic achievements as an aviator in recognition of which he was awarded the Distinguished Service Med-
BBIG. GEN. F . P. MULCAHY, U.S.M.C. 
al. Remaining in the Marines, and in aviation, after the War he was given numerous important posts, and only a month before Pearl Harbor was, as Col. Mulcahy, a member of an observation flight tour that included many spots now famous in this global war — Hawaii, Wake Island, Midway, India and Egypt. 
. General Mulcahy, at last reports, was on the West Coast, training young Ma­rine flyers out of the fulness of his own rich experience. 
• 
A ONE-TIME Notre Dame student ^^ supervised the construction of the southern sector of the new Alaska High­way, one of the world's great engineer­ing feats, and he is now heading from Whitehorse, Y. T., the Northwest Service Command, the farthest north service command ever established by the United States Army. Under his direction are the Alaskan Highway and the other roads, railways, inland water routes' and pipe lines of the region. 
The man is Brig.. Gen. James A. "PaUy" O'Connor, a Notre Dame stu­dent in 1902-03, who later was graduated from West Point. His Army career has 
BBIG. GEN. J. A. O'CONNOR, U.S.A. 

taken him around the globe. He had charge of the tunneling of Corregridor when that fortress was built in the Phili­ippines and he has supervised Army en­gineering projects in many states. He helped construct the present water-supply system of Washington, D. C. He was overseas with the 39th and the 78th divisions in World War I. 
"DEAR ADMIRAL Robert C. "Ike" 
^ Giffen, a Notre Dame student in 1895-96, is in command of that portion of the United States fleet which has 
REAE ADMIRAL R. C. GIFFEN, U.S.N. 

joined the British home fleet to protect allied shipping lanes. In that capacity. Admiral Giffen was host within the past few months to King George VI of Eng­land on the occasion of the monarch's inspection of the United States naval force and gave a luncheon for the King and a staff of British oificers. 
A graduate of the Naval Academy, Admiral Giffen, then a captain, was awarded the Navy Cross for distin­guished service as commander of the 
U. S. S. destroyer Trippe in convoy duty in World War I. In 1927 he commanded the U. S. S. Sacramento, and was com­mended for distinguished service with the Asiatic Fleet, and in 1928-29 he com­manded the destroyer division of that fleet. He was director of athletics at the Naval Academy from 1934 to 1937, be­
coming a rear admiral in 1940. 
MORE FACULTY IN SERVICE 
The war continues to make serious in­roads upon the faculty and the super­visory staff of the University. 
Frank T. Flynn, M.A. '31, former head of the Department of Social Work, left early in the fall for training at Cor­nell University as a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy. Preceding him into military service were Loren J. Hess, '33, instruct­or in sociology, who was drafted, and John J. McClurg, M.A., '38, instructor in social work who is a second lieutenant in the Signal Corps of the Army. 
Alden E. Davis, head of the Depart­ment of Business Administration in the College of Commerce, is to report in December to Quonset Point, R. I., to re­ceive training as a lieutenant in the naval air service. 
Robert M. Cahill, '34, assistant busi­ness manager of athletics, was commis­sioned a lieutenant (jg) in the Navy and reported to Harvard on Dec. 1 for train­ing in communications. Lt. (jg) Edward 
J. Murray, '31, supervisor of student em­ployment, is to "check in" with the Navy in Hollywood, Fla. on Dec. 15. John F. Plouff, '38, of the University Purchasing Oflice has received his ensign's com­mission but so far has not been assigned. Ensign Edward P. Wurtzebach, M.A. '40, secretary to the President, reported at Dartmouth in November. 
John P. McBride, M.S., '41, graduate assistant in chemistry, left the Univer­sity by special request in November to enter into important research connected with the war effort. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
h«« 
HoUe jbame BooJU 
>o»»»»»»»< 

THE COLLECTED POEMS OF CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, edited by Charles M. Car­ey, C.S.C. Notre Dame, Ind. University Press. 1942. $2.50. 
All Notre Dame men, especially those from 1916 to 1934, know the name and the poetry of Father Charles O'Donnell. In this collected edition of his work No­tre Dame is represented at her best and the stream of the great Catholic tradi­tion is proportionately increased. There is an unmistakable local quality to some of the verses (most of them were writ­ten on the campus while he seirved as teacher. Provincial, Assistant Superior General, and President of the Univer­sity), as in the sonnet At Notre Dame, which begins: 
So well I love these woods I half believe There is an intimate fellowship we share 
This intimate fellowship is vmderstood best, perhaps, by the alumni. It is a spir­itual fellowship, among other kinds, a communion with Father O'Donnell "and all the others whom they knew, that ex­tends beyond the campus walks, the lakes, and the trees, a common under­standing to which Notre Dame's beloved poet has here given enduring form. 
There is a fine dignity in these poems, a dignity of which the author himself was the perfect embodiment. The poems are, of course, almost exclusively relig­ious. They are sure of themselves, and are firm, clear-cut, restrained. Father Charles Carey, his nephew, has arranged the poems in the order of their first published appearance, adding as a final section some 48 new ones hitherto un­published in any form. 
With a foreword by Kev. Hugh O'Don­nell, President of the University, the book is presented in Notre Dame's tra­ditional blue and gold, and is one of the centenary publications to honor the founding of the school. 
—Norbert A. Engels 

THE MARCH TO LIBERATION, by Yves E. Simon. Milwaukee, The Tower Press, 1942. Pp. 102, $2.00. 
This booklet is an attempt to reorient­ate us properly in time. Referring espe­cially to the recent history of France, his native country, the writer shows that most of the faults which made possible the present calamities resulted from skepticism about the future. With an allusion to a famous book of Bemanos, 
The Great Cemeteries Under the Moon, 
he says: "No one budged. What was wrong? We should not have lacked cour­age if we had not lacked ideas. Our stu­por, our cowardice, were nothing but the effect of our doubt. We did not be­lieve ourselves capable of constructing the future. Incapable of imagining a new city and a new dawn, we gazed stupefied at the great cemeteries which spread out under the moon." 
For a long period the French left to their enemies the task of constructing the future. But even as France fell a new spirit, that of freedom, was bom in the resistance groups of the underground movement and in the legions of General De Gaulle. "Free France was founded... In the flames of sacrifice the nation was learning how to surmount doubt and was finding again the way of hope and faith. A heroic faith was bom. The exploration of a better future could at last base itself on the solid foundation of a faith bom of passionate action and itself a gener­ator of passionate action." 
Still this book analyzes motives and aspirations which are of wider relevance. The French are but one people fighting in the global war which is for the liber­ation of the world; and the ideals of the French are those of all free men. From the maelstrom of ideas and forces at work in this war one prevailing issce stands out: this is an intemational civil war. The opponents are not only separ­ated by physical boundaries of countries: there are two opposing spirits at war. There is the party of those who lust for power and exploitation, and there are the partisans of freedom wherever the spirit- of liberty and equal justice for all reigns. It is noteworthy that the French patriot who wrote this book has not stained it with the least note of national­ism. There are fine passages about the fraternity bom in suffering and anxiety between the French people and the Ger­man refugees threatened by a common enemy. 
A long chapter analyzes the trends prevailing and bound to prevail in the evolution of the Vichy government. (The writer has devoted to the origins of Fascism in France an earlier book. The . Road to Vichy, 1918-193S, Sheed and Ward, 1942). These are timely pages in view of the recent North African events. 
The present edition is the translation of an original French work published in New York. The able translator is Dr. Victor M. Hamm of the faculty of Mar­q-ette University—James A. Corbett 
RECEIVES POETRy AWARD 

Announcement was made in the No­vember issue of Poetry mag^azine of the award of the annual Harriet Monroe lyric prize of $100 to John Frederick Nims, instructor in Engh'sh at Notre Dame, for a series of "Five Poems" in the January issue of the magazine and a series of "Five Poems" in the July issue of the magazine. 
The prize, given to an author showing general outstanding achievement or defi­nite promise in a poem or group of poems, published in Poetry during its 30th anniversary year, is the sixth an­nual award sponsored by Mrs. James Herbert Mitchell of Chicago. 
RETURN TO MIDSHIPMAN SCHOOL 
Twenty Notre Dame men were en­rolled in the first Naval Reserve Mid­shipman School which opened on the Notre Dame campus on Oct. 5 and will continue until January. Included in this group were: 
Richard E. Ball, '41; Robert E. Burke, '42; Bernard A. Crimmins, '42; Robert 
W. Hargrave, '42; Leo M. Humphrey, '42; Charles M. Kearney, '42; Michael D. Kelly, '42,- William E. Kennedy, '42; Paul J. Larmer, '36; William J. McAnl­iffe, '42; George J. McCabe, ex. '42; Rob­ert J. McKee, '42; Joseph J. Miller, '41; Jerome J. CDowd, '41; Thomas F. Quin­lan, '38; Francis B. Qninn, '42; John D. Simon, '38; Edward M. Weinfurtner, '42; Zigmund A. Wesolowski, '42; and Steven R. Juzwik, '42. 
The final Navy V-7 group which en­tered on August 31 for indoctrination training only included the following No­tre Dame men: William C. Baader, '42; Samuel J. Boyle, '42; Donald R. Grant, '42; Robert J. Kenney, '41; Leo P. Lee, '42; Emmett G. Lenihan, ex. '42; Charles 
J. Macaluso, '38; Harrison T. MacDon­ald, '42; Robert A. Matthews, '42; Daniel 
J. McNamara, '42; Arthur W. Pope, '42; Joseph Reagan, ex. '42; Thomas K. Reis, '41; John J. Ryan, '36; and Thomas W. Teamey, '42. George N. Thoma, a grad­uate student in 1941-42, was also a mem­ber of this class. 
TOM McSEE, '41. ON WASP 

Lt. (jg) Thomas J. McGee, '41, Brook­lyn, was aboard the aircraft carrier Wasp when she was sunk in the Socth Pacific early in the fall but escaped with­out serious injury. Maintaining, of course, strict secrecy as to his exi)erienca Tom, on a month's furlough, was at No­tre Dame on Oct. 20, just a few days before the' Wasp's sinking was .an­nounced. He was in New York for; the Army game and was to return to the West coast on Nov. 15. 
Donnelly, Richard P.. ex. '42, Sgt, U.S. Army, 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Including names received and classified up to Nov. 19). 
Ale.^cander, Don P., ex. '29, 373rd Base Sqdn., Colorado Springs Army Air Base, Colorado Si>rings, Colo. 
Allen, James J., ex. '39. Air Force Ofiicers Candi­date School, Sqdn. 36, Grp. F, Miami Beach, Fla. Allen. John C ex. '41, Quartermaster School, 
Camp Lee, Va. Arboit, Feter S.. ex. '40, Set., A.P.O. 922, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Arthur, Edward L.. '30, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. A, 
R.C. 1229, Fort Dix, N. J. 
Aubrey, Laurence J., '42, A.P.O. 32SG, c/o Post­master, New York City. 
Baader. William C, '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Ball, Raymond E., e.>;. '29, PvL, U.S. Army. 1610th 3.U. Area, Blis, T164, Camp Grant, 111. Ball, Richard E., '41, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, Notre Dame, Ind. Barber. Robert A., '40, Prt. U.S. Army, Box 636, Honolulu, T. H. 
Barbier. Richard L., '40, P\-t., U.S. Army. Pro­visional Co., Pomona Ordnance Motor Corps, Pomona, Calif. 
Barnett, Benjamin F., ex. '34, 313th T.S.S., Bks. 709, Sheppard Field, Texas. 
Barnett, Thomas C , '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., U.S. Naval Construction Training Center, Camp Allen, Norfolk. Va. 
Barr, William R., '26, Pit., U.S. Army, A.P.O .7, c/o Postmaster, Los Angeles. Calif. Bigldns, James A., '31, Lt., U.S. Army Air Forces, Miami Beach, Fla. 
Blaney, Joseph A., '32, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Co. 2102. Bks. 4105-3, N.T.S., Indoctrination Group, Newport, R. I. 
Bolger, George E.. '33, L t (j.g.), SC-V(S), D.S.­N.R. Botti, Andrew C, ex. '33. Lt, 126th Regt. Ord. H.B., Atlanta. Ga. Bon^ren, James F., Jr., '35. Ensign, U.S.N.B., 
U.S. Naval Training Station. Bainbridge, Md. 
Bowes Norman M., '33. Lt. (j.g.). BIdg. 4105-2, Co. 2102-122, Gate 4, Naval Rei^rve Indoctrination School, Naval Training Station, Ne"T>ort, R. I. 
Boyle, Samuel J., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Brill, Martin, e_x. '32, Pvt., U.S. Army. 414 Hq. & Air Base Sq., Santa Ana Air Base, Santa Ana, Calif. 
Broderick John M.,'40, 2nd Lt, Student Officers Detachment, Class 42-J, Brooks Field, San An­tonio. Texas. 
Broderick, Paul J., '26, Pvt. U.S. Army. Finance Office, Lockboume Field, Columbus, O. Brown Albert L., '39, Ensign. U.S.N.R., U.S. Naval Air Station, Richmond, Fla. Buechner, Frederick W.. '23, Capt U.S.M.C— A.V.S. Burke, E. Bolan. '28, Merchant Marine in New Orleans, La. Burke, Robert C . ex. '37, Base Quartermaster Office, Baer Field, Fort Wayne. Ind. Burke, Robert E., '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Burt, Herbert J., '26, L t Com., U.S.N.R.—A-V (S), Quonset Point, R. I. Butler, Edward J., '34, 1st Lt. 812th Signal Port Scrv. Co., Camp Gordon, Augusta, Ga. Byrne, Matthew A., '42, A/C, U.S.N.E., U.S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Call. Charles W., "18. Ambrose Naval Base. Tomp-Unsvtlle, S.I., N. Y. 
Calvert Hamilton E., '36, M/Sgt, Chemical Office, Hq. Armored Force. Fort Knox, Ky. Cantwell, Leo J., '26, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., Dart­mouth College, Hanover, N. H. Carroll, Thomas J., '41, Y2C, Personnel Office, 
U.S.
 Coast Guard, Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn. 

N.
 Y. Carton. Lawrence A., '29, 1st Lt, Quartermaster Corps, Washington, D- C. Cassidy, Charles F.. '38, 312th Dive Bombing Sqdn., Key Field, Miss. Cassidy, John J , '30, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., Naval Training Station, BIdg. 497-2. Newport, R. I. 


Cassidy, Thomas E., '37, Candidate 12th Co., 1st Platoon 1st Student Trng. Regt, Fort Benning, Ga. 
Cava, Jasper F., '24, Capt M.C., New Orleans Staging Area, Station Hospital, New Orleans, La. 
Chenal, Bernard J., '41, 359th Tech. Sch. Sqdn., Jefferson Barracks, Mo. 
Collins, Eugene R., ex. '41, Sgt U.S. Army, 313th Tech. Sch. Sq. (Sp.), A^C, Sheppard Field, Texas. 
Conboy, Joseph F., ex. '29, Great Lakes Naval Training Station, B!dg. 112, Commissary Dept, Great Lakes. III. 
Connor. David J.. '38. Sgt. U.S. Army, A.P.O. 1132. c/o Postmaster. San Francisco, Calif. Connors. Donald F., '42, Pvt, U.S. Army, No. 9125, 564 T.S.S. (Sp.), Flight A, Atlantic City, 
N. J. Cotter, William E., Jr.. '41, Ensign U.S.N.R., cjo Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Cottingham, John C, '38, U.S. Army. 765th Tech. Sch. Sqdn., BIdg. 316, Buckley Field, Denver, Colo. 
Coyne, Gilbert H., '34, Corp.. U.S. Army, A.P.O. 37, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Crawford Myron E., '32, Lt, Hdqs., 8th Service Command, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. Crimmins, Bernard A., '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. Cronan, Leo J., '34, U.S. Navy Pre-Flight School. Chapel Hill. N. C. Crowe. Emmett H., ^39, Training Sqdn. 4, Group 4, Army Air Force O.S.C, Miami Beach, Fla. 

Crowley, Robert D., e-x. '42. Co. D. 114th Med. Bn., 26th Inf. Div., A.P. Hill Mil. Res., Freder­icksburg, Va. 
Cullather, James L.. '40, Pv t U.S. Army, 803rd T.S.S., Bks. 1324, Sioux Falls Field, S. Dak. Cullinan, Eustace, Jr., '25. Lt. (j.g.), U.S. Naval Air Base. Quonset Point. R. I. Cunningham, Raymond C, '25, Lt, U.S.N.R. Naval Procurement Office. Minneapolis. Minn. 
Dahill, Daniel D.. '42, A/C, U.S. Naval Reserve Air Base. Glenview, III. Daiglcr, Vincent A., '42, Lt, U.S. Marines, Co. A, B-O.C, Quantico, Va. Dalton Ralph J., '31. L t (j.g.), U.S. Naval Train­ing School, 12th Naval District, Treasure Island. . San Francisco, Calif. Davis, John A.. '39, Ensign U.S.N.R., Delaware Towers, 25-E Delaware, Chicago, III. 
de la Vcrgne, Pierre R., '38, Naval Aviator. Cadet, U.S.N.R.. 104 York Town Bks., U.S. Navy Pte-Flight School, Athens, Ga. 
Dillon, Henry J., '26, Major, Army Medical Corps, Fort Heade, Md. Dillon, John C . Jr., '40. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, 502 Fiimall Hall, New York City. Dixon. Donald E., ex. '34. Marine Barracks, Quan­tico, Va. 
95th School Squadron, Turner Field, Albany, Ga. Donosfane Richard L., '31, L t (V)S, U.S.N.R., Washington, D. C. 
Donohoe, Richard C„ '32, U.S. Navy, Storekeeper 3/C, V.G.S.. -28, Naval Air Station. Norfolk, Va. Donovan, Patrick J , '36, Ensign U.S.N.R.. Am­
phibian School, Norfolk, Va. Dowd, Henry R.. '40, Co. R, 302nd Ard. Reg., Corona, Calif. Doyle, Francis A., ex. '35, Pf c U.S. Army, A.P.O. 924, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
Drake, Edson J., '42, Pvt, U.S. Army Air Corps. 407 S.S. Barracks 163, Sheppard Field, Texas. Dreiling. Virgil T., '39, Corp., U.S. Army, A.P.O. 
611, c/o Postmaster, New York City. 

Dreu.x, William B., '33. U.S. Army, 28th Co., 5th Bn., 3rd Student Training Regt.. Harmony Church Area, Fort Benning, Ga. 
Dugean, Daniel F.. '42, Vvt., U.S. Army. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Dumpert John J., '34, Co. F, R.C. 1229, Fort Di.x, 
N.J. 

Dnnlap. John W., '40, Pv t Trng. Sq. 1. Bks. 51. Marine Aviation Det. 2R2E, Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Dupray, Walter J., '34, Lt , U.S.N.R., Northeastern Naval Training Station, Newport, R. I. 
Edmonds, Millard S., '41, Hq. Det R.R.C.. Bar­racks 428, Fort Sheridan, III. 
Egan, Roger P., '40, Air Cadet Pilot Training, Sqdn. 73, Santa Ana Army Air Base, Santa Ana, Calif. 
Eichler, George M., '40, U.S. Army, Quartermaster School, Camp Lee, Va. Ernest, Francis J., '40, Pvt„ U.S. Army, Bids. 118-A, Co. A, Repl. Bn.. Fort Washington. Md. 
Ewing, Wayne H., '28, U.S. Navy, Radio Tech­nician 3/C, Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, III. 
Fallon, Edward A., ex. '39, Lt , Western Ferry Command of the U.S. Army Air Corps. 
Farley, Daniel P., ex. '38, Sgt, U.S. Army Air Corps, 402nd Bomb Sqdn., Davis-Monthan Field, "Hicson, Ariz. 
Farrcll, A. Gerald, '34, Corp., U.S. Army, Troop B, 1st Sqdn., C.R,T.C., BIdg. 2021T, Fort Riley, Kans. 
Fead, Robert W., ex. '40, Lt , U.S. Army Air Force, Kelly Field, Te.xas. Felts, Allen P., '39, Pvt, U.S. Army, Co. A. 5th Trng. Bn., Camp Wheeler, Ga. Feriy, Bernard J., '41, Sgt, U.S. Army, 946th School Squadron, Ajo, Ariz. 
Fischer, Edward W., '37, Volunteer Officer Candi­date, 33rd Inf. Trng. Bn., Co. D. 2nd Platoon, Camp Croft, S. C. 
Fisher, Patrick J., '36, 34th Tech. School Sqdn.. Bks. 723, Scott Field, III. Fitzgerald, Robert M., '42, Corp., U.S. Army, Med­ical Corps, Co. A. 38th H.T.B., Camp Grant. III. 
Flannery, John E., ex. '35, Pfc, U.S. Army, Co. B, 1st Bn., 128th Ord. Motor S.K Regt. Od., Atlanta Motor Base, Atlanta, Ga. 
Flood, Richard £., '37, 1st Lt, U.S. Army, Medical Corps, Fort Wayne, Detroit, Mich, Flynn, Frank T., M.A. 'SI, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., 
V.S. Naval Training School, lOB Lyon, Cornell 

University, Ithaca, N. Y. Fogerty, Robert P., '28, Lt, U.S. Army Air Forces 
P.FA (B-N). Ellington Held, Texas. 

Ford, James H., '42. Ensign, U.S.N.R., 111 New Hampshire Hall, U.S. Naval Training Station, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. 
Ford, TA^IIiam M., ex. '42, Pvt, U.S. Army, Fort Sheridan, III. Fox. Jerome F., '24, Lt , U.S.N.R.. N.T.S. (I). 
U.S. Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R. I. Foye. Thomas P„ '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Armed 
• Names ate listed here only once—when they are first received by the Alamni Office. Changes in military addresses are included in class news 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Guard Center. Treasure Island. San Francisco, Calif. 
Francis, Harry L., Jr., '30, U.S. Army Air Corps. United Nations Br.. 3rd National Bids., Day­ton. O. 
Friske. Joseph, ex. '26, Lt.. AJV.F.T.T.C. O.T.S., 618 Ronay Plaza Hotel, Miami Beach. Fla 
Gabreski. Francis S., ex. '42. Jst Lt . A.P.O. 959, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Gabreski. Thaddeus S.. '34. Capt.. A.P.O. 886. cjo Postmaster. New York City. Gabriel. Frederick R., '36, 1st Lt.. M.C.. 39th Station Hospital, Camp Barkeley, Texas. Gabrysiak, Dominic W., ex. '33, U.S.N.R.. Naval Training Station. Great Lakes. 111. Gannon. John R.. '31, Lt., U.S. Army, Medical Corps, Fort Hancock, Sandy Hook. N. J. 
Garrity. Donald E.. '33, Gunnery Officer, Merch.int Ship, Armed Guard Receiving Center, South Brooklyn. N. Y. 
Garvey. Husrh M., '39, Lt.. Inf.. 8th Div., Fort Jackson. Columbia. S. C. 
Garvey, John J., '42, Ensign, D-V(P), U.S.N.R.. Matthews S-56, Naval Training Station, Har­vard University, Cambridge, Mass. 
Gastreich.'Joseph H.. '29. Pvt., U.S. Army, 402nd School Squadron. Bks. 328. Sheppard Field, Texas. 
Gebhardt. John F., e.x. '43, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. B 537, Monterey, Calif. 
Geissler, Eugene S., M.A. '41, U.S. Army. lOCth Med. Trng. Bn., Co. C. Camp Joseph T. Robin­son, Ark. 
Gohman, Jerome H., '37. Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. B, 1st Platoon, Fitzsimmons General Hospital, Den­ver, Colo. 
Golden. Philip E., '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R., c/o Post­master, San Diego, Calif. 
Grady. William H.. '42. A/C, U.S.N.R.. U.S. Naval Air Station, Bldg. 704. Rm, 234, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Grant, Donald R., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. Grossman. Jules, '29, U.S. Army. Co. H. 2nd Regt., Q.M.O.C.S., Camp Lee, Va. 
Guarnieri. Frank G., '28, Lt.. U.S. Army, 107th F.A.Med. Det.. A.P.O. 28. Camp Livingston. La. Gury. Albert F.. '28, Hdqs. Co.. A.P.O. 33, Fort 
• Lewis, Wash. 
Hafron, Charles F.. '33. Lt, U.S.N.R.. U.S. Naval Training Station, University of N. C, Chapel Hill, N .C. Hagerty, Cornelius S., '25, Major, U.S. Army Air Corps, Army Base Hospital, Amarillo, Texas. 
Haines, Francis X., '37, 1st Lt.. U.S. Army. Med. Det™ Normoyle Ord. Motor Base, San Antonio, Texas. Haines, Robert C '42, Tvt., U.S. Army. Candidate —Anti-Aircraft. Btry. 18, A.A.S, O.C.D.. 1st Platoon, Camp Davis, N. C. Hanifin, Thomas E., ex. '38, Lt, U.S.N.R.. Dental Officer, Naval Training School, Ferry St., S t Louis. Mo. Hanley. Robert J.. '34, Pvt., U.S. Army. IGllth S.U.R.R.C., Area C, Bks. 438, Fort Sheridan, 111. Hanly, Edward J.. '41. Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Supply Corps School, Harvard University, Sol­diers Field, Boston, Mass. Hargrave. Robert W.. '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame, Ind. Hargrove. Jordan T.. '35, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R.. 
U.S. Naval Training School. Quonsct Point R- I. Harrigan, James F.. e.t. '29, 1st Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps, Wendover Field, Utah. Harrington, Robert E.. '41, Sgt., U.S. Army Air Corps. 803 T.S.S.. Sioux Falls, S. D. Hartzer, Norman J., '29, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. Copley Plaza Hotel, Rnl. 349. Boston, Mass. 
Hayes, Gerald W.. '26. Capt, U.S. Army Air Corps. Station,Hospital, Westo\-er Field, Chico-pee Falls, Mass. 
Hayes, John W.. '41. Dept of Athletics and Recre­
ation. U.S. Naval Training Station, Newport, 
R. L Hemming. Philip C. '29, Medical Corps. Chanute Field, Rantoul, III. 
Hennessy. James D., ex. '29. Lt„ U.S.NJt, Navy School for Radiomen and Signalmen, University of Chicago, Chicago, III. 
Henry, John R.. &>:. '38. A/C. U.S. Army Air Force. Sqdn. K-6, Maxwell Field, Montgomery, Ala. Hess. Philip C '35. Cadet Co. K, QM. School Regt., Camp Lee, Va. Hewitt, C.S.C.. Rev. Thomas E., '35, Chaplain, 125th Inf.. Gilroy. Calif. 
Hickey. John H., '24. Lt. (i.g.). Naval Communi­cations. U.S. Naval Training School. Cambridge, Mass. Hickey, John P.. '31. Corp.. U.S. Army Air Force, O.C.S., Sqdn. C, Group 1. Miami Beach, Fla. 
Hickey, Lawrence F., '42, A/C, Cadet Regiment. Bldg. 704. Rm. 138, Naval Air Base, Jackson­ville, Fla. 
Higgins. Thomas J.. '37. Pvt. U.S. Army, Co. A. 1st Fin. Trng. Bn.. Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Hogan. Edward P.. '38. U.S. Army, Hq. Btry. 305 
F.A. Bn.. 77th Div., Fort Jackson, S. C. Hogan. Vincent P., '42. Corp.. U.S. Army 1399 Service Unit. Fort Hayes. Columbus. O. 
Holden. William J., e-x. '28. U.S. Army. Btry. H, 604 C.A.. Bergen Point Station, c/o Postmaster, Bayonne, N. J. 
Holman. Edwin J.. '34. Ensign, U.S.N.R.. Public Relations Dept.. Cornell University. Ithaca, 
N. Y. Hosinski. Matthew P.. ex. '25, Sgt., 44th School Sqdn.. Randolph Field. Te.\as. Hughes. Edward R., ex. '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. c/o Postmaster. New York City. 
Hughes, John M.. '39, Pvt, U.S. Army. 52nd Service Group. Columbia Air Base. Columbia, 
S. C. Humphrey. Leo M.. '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. 
Hurley. James E. '41, Pvt. U.S. Army. Hq. Co.. 124th Armd. Engr. Bn.. A.P.O 263. Camp Beale. Calif. 
Imboden. Clarence A.. '42. Ensign. U.S.N.R., 5018 St. Charles St.. New Orleans, La. Inwood. Gene R., e.x. '31, U.S. Army, Med. Corps. 30Sth Med. Bn., Camp Atterbury, Ind. 
Jackson. Louis E., '34, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Training School, Dartmouth College, Hanover, 
N. H. Jacobi. Donald G.. e-x. '34. U.S. Army. 908th QJ€. Co., A.V.N.. Goodfellow Field. San Angelo. Texas. Johnston, Ralph E.. ex. '30, U.S. Army. 40th Air 
Base Sqdn.. Gowen Field. Boise. Idaho. Judge, Joseph P.. '32. Pvt, U.S. Army, Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Juzwik. Stephen R.. '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Kane. Frank P.. '29, Lt, U.S.N.R., Medical Corps. 
U.S. Naval Hospital. Sampson, N. Y. Kane. Joseph M.. '28, Corp., U.S. Army, 13th Special Service Unit, Fort George G. Meade, Md. 
Kane, William A., ex. '33. Cbrp.. U.S. Army. 30"th Inf.. Co. M.. A.P.O.. 77th Div., Fort Jackson. 
S. C. Keach, Leroy J.. '40. Co. B, 68th Arm'd Regt. Sth Div.. A.P.O. 256, Camp Chaffee, Ark. Kearney. Charles M.. '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Inct Keating, Edward L., '24, Pvt., U.S. Armyi Co. A, Group 490, Bks. 343, Presidio, Monterey. Calif. Keefe Thomas L., '22, Capt. U.S. Army, Station Hospital, Maxwell Field, Ala. Keegan, Thomas A., '30, Ensign, U.SJJ.R., Armed Guard Center, B.O.Q. 213, New Orleans. La. 
Kehoe. James P.. '33. Pvt.. U.S. Army. T.S.S. (Sp.), T.S. 583. AJV.F.T.T.C.. Basic Training 
Center. Miami Beach. Fla. Keldier. Edwin W.. '^l. Cadet Co. B. 2nd Begt. Quartermaster School, Camp Le«, Va. 
Kelley. Lawrence J.. '42, Ensign, U.SJ4JC., U.S. Naval lYainins School. Cornell University. Ith-Hfea. N. Y. 
Kelley. Paul W., '42. U.S. Naval Reserve Air Base. Glenview, IlL 
Kelly. Charles E.. '40, 2nd Lt. U.S. Army Air Force. Air Transport Command. Boiling Field. Washington. D. C. 
Kelly. Michael D.. '42. U.S.NJ{. Midshipmen's' School, Notre Dame. Ind. 
Kennedy, Eugene M., '22. 1st Lt , Inf., A.U.S;. Hq. 9tb Service Command. Fort Douglas. Utah. Kennedy. William E., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's 
School, Notre Dame. Ind. Kenney, Robert J., '41. U.S.NJL Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame. Ind. Kilarjian. Albert A., ex. '39, Lt . U.S. Army. Brooks Field. Texas. Kinerk. Loois J.. '24. Lt . U.SJIJI.. Communica­tions School. Noroton Heights. Conn. Kiple. John R. '34. U.S. Coast Guard. Port Clin-• ton. O. Kirsch, John W.. '36, CS . Army Air Force. 522nd School Sqdn., VJU.S.-AJ^.B., Victorville, Calif. 
Koness, Walter I., ex. '43, Lt, U.S. Army Air Force, 57 Bomb Sqdn., 48th Group, Key Field. Meridian, Miss. 
Kopinski, Francis L.. '31, U.S. Army, Co. C, 61st Med. Bn.. AJ>.0. 1504, Camp Breckinridge. Ky. Kyle. Eldred L.. ex. '35, In service—Trinidad. Brit­
ish West Indies. 
Lajoie, Richard J., '42. Pvt. U.S. Army Air Corps. 362 Tech. Sch. Sq. (Sp.). Barracks 608, Lowry Field, Colo. 
Lally, Lenihan L.. '21, Capt, U.S. Army Ordnance Dept, Fort Crook, Nebr. Lancaster. James D., '41. Pvt. U.S. Army, 33rd Air Base Sgdn., Paine Field, Wash. 
Lange. Leslie H , ex. '41. U.S. Army, 305th Air Force Tr. Det. Gamer Field. Uvalde. Texas. Larmer. Paul J.. '36, U.S.NJC Midshipmen's 
School. Notre Dame, Ind. Lee. Leo P., '42. U.S.NJI. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Lenihan, Emmett G., ex. '42. U.S.N.R. Midship­men's School. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Lieser, William A., '37. U.S. Army Medical Corps, 4I5th Inf. Med. Det, AJ>.0. 104. Camp Adair, Ore. 
Unsey. Robert B.. '39, Pvt, U.S. Array Air Corps. Fairfield Air Depot, Patterson Field, Fairfield, O. 
Loftus, James E.. '37. Ensign. U.SJJJL. Naval Supply Corps School. Harvard University. Sol­diers FleM. Boston. Mass. 
Logan. John H.. '35, U.S. Army, A.P.O. 304. e/o Postmaster. Leesville. La. » Lucier. Phillip J.. '42, Ensgn, U.SJf.R., e/o Post­master, San Francisco, Calif. 
Luthringer, John L.. '42, Pvt, U.S. Army. Fin­ance Replacement Training Center, Fort Benja­min Harrison. Ind. 
Lynangh. Edward P.. '37. Co. 6. O.C.S.. Adj. Gen. Det. Fort Washington. Md. Lynch. Timothy L., ex. '41, U.S. Army, Btry. A, 28th CJV.T.B.. Camp Wallace. Texas. 
Haealuso, Charles J., '38, U.S.NJ{. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. MacDonaM. Harrison T.. '42, U-S-N-B. Midship­men's School. Notre Dame. Ind. Mack. John £ , '40. Ensign. U.SJIJL. San Joan. Puerto Rico. Madden. Harold D , ex. '40, Corp.. U.S. Army. Air Corns' Det. S.C.U. 1962. Fort Ord. Calif. 
Madden. William B.. '42. Ensign. U.SJUe.. Naval Supply School. Harvard University, Boston. Mass. 
Hagee. Robert F, '38. Lt. U.9. Army. 405th 
Q.M. Bn.. 80th Div.. Camp Forrest. Tenn. 
Bblone. Edward J.. '41. Lt. U.S. Army Air Corpse Brooks Field. San Antonio. Texas. 
Mantesani, Charles L., ex. '39, 1st Lt., Ord. Dcpt., 
Erie Proving Ground, LaCame, O. Hanselsdorf, Edward F., '42, AyC, Naval Air Corps, Bldg. 704, Rm. 109. Jacksonville, Fla. Harinello, Carlo J., ex. "37, Capt.. A.P.O. 637, cjo 
Postmaster, New Orleans, La. Harley, Harold V., '37. 1st Lt., U.S. Army Medical Corp., Camp Barkeley, Texas. 
Marshall, Q. Joseph, '42, Cadet Pilot, Naval Avia­tion Bide. 704, Em. 129, Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Matthews, Robert A., '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. McAuliile, William J., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. McCabe, Georse J., ex. '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
McCaffrey, David S., '33, Lt. (i.e.). C.E.C.-V(S). U.S.N.R., Na\*al Reserve Aviation Base, Hutch­inson, Kan. 
McCarty, Neil J.. '42, Pvt., U.S. Army Air Corps. Hdqs. Sqdn.. Olmstead Field, Middletown, Pa. McClory, Raymond L., '27, Lt. (i.e.). U.S.N.R., 
U.S. Naval Air Station, Moffett Field, Calif. HcClurs, John J., M.A. '38, 2nd Lt., 5 Officer's 
Club, Lcxineton Signal Depot, Lexington, Ky. HcCbubrey, John D., ex. '32, FN-t., U.S. Army, Co. 
B. Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. McEIIigott, Maurice J., '26, CapU, Med. Corps, Lowry Field, Denver, Colo. McGee, Thomas J., '41, Lt., (i.e.), U.S.N.R., <3an 
Diego, Calif. HcGonasle, Charles A., '24, Petty Officers, 2C. 
U.S. Naval Hospital Reservation. Great Lakes. III. McGrath, Arnold, '22, 2nd Lt., C.A.C.. Control Section S.F.P.E.O.S.D,, Oakland, Calif. McKay. Donald R., '36, Lt., U.S.N.R.. Med. Corps. Bremerton, Wash. McKee, Robert J., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. HcKenna. Robert L , '27, 1st Lt., Med. Corps, St. Louis Med. Depot, St. Louis, Mo. McLaughlin, Martin M., '41, A.A.F.T.S., 628 T.S.S., Madison, Wis. McMabon, Rev. John J., '40, Camp St. Georpe, Clear Water, Wis. McManus, Paul F., '34, Lt. (j.s.), A.LR. Primary 
Training Command, Kansas City. Mo. HcHanus, Robert R., '40, Corp., U.S. Army, 
A.P.O. 3005, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. 
McNally, John V., ex. '27. Pvt, U.S. Army Air Forces Basic Training Center. Jefferson Bar­racks. Mo. 
McNamara. Daniel J.. '42. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. McNamara. Joseph P.. '29. Capt.. Office of the Judge Advocate General. Washington. D. C. 
HcNemey.'John L , '34. Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. B. 20th Trng. Bn„ 2nd platoon, 6th Regt., B.I.R.­T.C.. Fort HeCIellan, Ala. 
Heehan, Francis J., '42, Pvt, U.S. Army, Finance Dept. Civic Center BIdg.. 7th Ferrying Group. Great Falls. Mont 
Meier. William E., '42, U.S. Army, Hdos. Co., Reception Center. Fort Snelling. Minn. Miller. Carl C . ex. '43. Pvt.. U.S. Army. Co. A. 1st Regt, 0-M.R.T.C.. Bldg. 235, Fort Francis 
E. Warren, Wyo. Miller, Joseph J. '41, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. Holler, Lawrence P., '31, , Ensign, U.S.N.R., C.G.R., 1755 Foot of Victor, S t Louis, Mo. Monahan. Robert M., '34. Sgt., U.S. Army, Co. B, 
Academic Regt. ISSC. Fort Benning. Ga. tfooney, C.S.C., Rev. E. Vincent '16, ChapWn, 
U.S. Army, Adj. Gen. Sch., Fort Washington, Hd. 
Morgan, Daniel R., ex. '43, U.S. Navy, Armed Guard Center, Treasure Island. San Francisco, Calif. 
Moriarty, Edmund, ex. '33. L t (j.g.). U.S.N.R., 
U.S. Naval Training Station, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N- H. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Morris. John F., '42. 2nd Lt„ U.S. Marines, 11th R.O.C., Co. B, B Barracks, Quantico, Va. 
Mullen, Robert E., ex. '37, Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps, Air Transport Command, Romulus. Mich. Mulligan, Raymond H., '28, L t (j.g.). U.S.N.R., Armed Guard. Receiving Center, S. Brooklyn, 
N. Y. 
Musmakcr, J. Lyie, '20, 1st Lt, U.S. Army, South Post, O). C, 3rd Refresher School, Fort Ogle­thorpe, Ga. 
Naegele, Frederic S., ex. '43, Corp., U.S. Army. 52nd Bn.. Replacement Center. Camp Wolters. Texas. 
Nagel. Robert J., e.x. '40. Sgt.. U.S. Army, Coast Artillery, San Diego. Calif. 
Nceson. John H., '35. Ensign. U.S.N.R., Aircraft Factory, Philadelphia Navy Yard, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Nowak, Edward J., ex. '41, Pvt., U.S. Army, Hda. Btry. 262 Sep. C.A. Bn., Fort Rosencrans, San Diego, Calif. 
Nowak, Edwin J., ex. '42, Ptc, U.S. Army, A.P.O. 253, c/o Postmaster, Rice, Calif. 
O'Brien, Edward D., ex. '31. Pvt. U.S. Army. 780th T.S.S. (Sp.). Bks. 118. A.A.F.. Lincoln. Nebr. 
O'Brien, John D., '41, Ensign. U.S.N.R.. c/o Pest-master, San Francisco, Calif, O'Brien, Robert L., '38, A.P.O. 640, c/o Postmas­ter, New York City. O'Connell, John J., '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., cjo Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. O'Donnell. Robert M„ ex. '29, Corp., V.'J. Army, 
A.P.O. 1083, cjo Postmaster. New York City. O'Dowd. Jerome J.. '41. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame, Ind. O'Hara, John F.. "39, 876 U.S. Army, Glider 
School S<idn., Dalhart. Texas. O'LaughHn. Francis J.. '39. In service. O'Laughlin. James P.. '42. Lt. U.S.M.C,R„ Camp 
Elliott San Diego. Calif. Olbrys. Joseph B., '41. In service. O'Malley. George F.. '30, L t (j.g.), U.S.N.R., 
Armed Gu;"rd (Center, Treasure Island, San Francisco, Calif. O'Malley, Paul K., '42, U.S. Army, Camp Grant III. Ostroski, Edward A., ex. '42, Pvt, U.S. Army, Camp Bonifas, Watersmeet, Mich. 
Pacetta, Albert S., '39. S/Sgt. U.S. Army, South Plains Army Flying School, Lubbock, Texas. Paskin. Hilton, '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R., U.S. Naval A.T.B.. Little Creek, Va. 
Pawlowski, Joseph T., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Ground School Refresher P.O., U.S. Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla. 
Pendergast, Robert L., '31, Pvt, U.S. Army, 1640 S.C.U., Bldg. 309, Fort Sheridan. III. Petersen. Donal C. '42. 710 Lake Shore Dr., Ab­bott Hall, Box 97. Chicago, III. 
Pfeiffer, Richard J , "36. Corp.. U.S. Army. 1030th Basic Flying Trng. Sadn.. Kelly FicW, San Antonio, Texas. 
Pierce, William C. ex. '33. Corp.. U.S. Army. 617 A.A.F.T.S.S., Madison, Wis. Pilarski, John M.. '36. Pvt., U.S. Army, Flight C, 565th Tech. Sch. S<i. (Sp.), Atlantic City, 
N.J. 
Pinckney, Andrew M., ex. '41, Pvt, U.S. Army, 393rd Base Hdq. & Air Base Sq., Army Air Base, Syracuse, N. Y. 
Pinkley, Talbert C, "33, PVt, U.S. Army. Hq. ft Hq. Sq., 2nd Dist, A.A.F.T.T.C., 455 Lake Ave., S t Louis, Mo. 
Pope, Arthur W., "42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Prezebel, Richard P., ex. "34, Co. A, 3l6t KT. Bn., 1st Platoon, Fort Leonard Wood, Mo^ Purcell, Paul E., '40, U.S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Quinlan, Thomas F., '38. U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame. Ind. Quinlan. William L.. ex. '36. Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps. Sebring Hotel, Sebring, Fla. Quinn, Francis B., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Quinn, Joseph P.. '37, Y3C. c/o Postmaster, New York aty. 
Raaf. Robert H., '42, A/C, U.S. Naval Air Sta­tion, Bldg. 704, Rm. 219, Jacksonville, Fla. Reagan, Joseph R., ex. '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Reanlen, John B., ex. '44, L t Com., U.S.N.R., Med. Corps, U.S. Naval Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Reardon, Edward J., '37, S/Sgt., U.S. Army Spe­cial Training Unit, 2nd Army. 3rtl Hq. & Hq. Det Sp. Troops. Camp Gordon. Ga. 
Reedy. Joseph J., '27, Capt, Spokane Air Depot, Spokane, Wash. Reidy, Jerome G., '30, Pvt, U.S. Army, I2th 
T.S.S. (Sp.). Bks. 751, Scott Field, III. Reilly. Francis H.. '32, U.S. Naval Training Sta­tion, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H. Reis, Thomas K„ '41, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind, Eeppenhagen, Francis A.. '39, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, (^nn. Rich. James C„ '31, Pvt.. U.S. Army. Ck>. A, Bldg. 348, 39th Inf. Tr. Bks., Camp Croft, S. C. Rohleder Carl F., ex. '39, U.S.N.R., cjo Postmas­ter, San Francisco, Calif. 

Rohrbach, Robert J., '32. Lt. (j.g.). U.S.N.R.. Supply Corps, 515 Garland St., Sturgeon Bay, Wis. 
Ronay, Stephen H., '27, 1st Lt, U.S. Army Air Corps, U.S. Army Advanced Glider School, Dal­hart Texas. 
Ryan, Edward C, '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Bureau of Naval Personnel, Washington, D. C. Ryan, John J , '36, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Notre Dame, Ind, 
Sadowski, Chester P., '39. Pvt. U.S. Army. W.R.­
G.H. Section. Army Medical Center. Washing­ton, D. C. 

Sandrock, Peter F., '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Naval Training School, Receiving Station, South Bos­ton, Mass. 
SehcII, Oliver F., '29, Seaman—2C, U.S. Naval Training Station, (k). 964, Great Lakes, III. 
Schmidt, Lawrence A., '41, Pvt, U.S. Army, Sig­nal Cbrps Det, House 2661, West Adams, Los Angeles, Caiif. 
Schreiber, <3eorge A., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Nor­folk, Va. Schroeder. Joseph R., '31, Lt, Rome Air Depot, Rome, N. Y. 
Sheedy, Michael M., '35, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. Room 221, Brown Hall. Naval Training School. Prince­ton University. Princeton, N. J. 
Sherry. Steven E.. ex. '07, Detached Medical Unit, Station Hospital, piendleton. Ore. Shields, Phillip J., '35, Pvt, U.S. Army, A.S.N. 36190042, A.P.O. 939, Seattle, Wash. Shiely, James P., '40, Pfe, U.S. Army, 4th Weath­er Observers Sqdn., Harding Field, La. Simon, John D., '38, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Slack, Edmund J., '39, Co. 1658, U.S. Naval Train­ing Station, Great Lakes, III. Smith. George A., '38, Ensign U.S.N.R.. Supply Corps, U.S. Naval Aviation Brse. Peru, Ind. Smith, Ramon G., '32, Co. 42-546, U.S. Naval Training Station, San Diego, Calif. Sobek, George E„ '42. Great Lakes Naval Train­ing Station, Great Lakes, III.. 
Spalding, Joseph, ex. '34. Capt, U.S. Army Medi-Cal Corps. Army & Navy General Hospital. Hot Springs National Park. Kan. ­
(Continued on Prge 24) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BY BILL REYNOLDS, '43 



ATHLETICS 
FOOTBALL 

Later: For the «mke of the historical record, it ought to be noted here that Notre Dame won from Southern Cali­fornia, 13-0. 
As this is being written the Legions of Leahy, still looking for a breather after nine games, are preparing for their biennial trip to Los Angeles where they will meet a rejuvenated Southern Cali­fornia eleven. Four days after the re­turn trip from the West Coast, the Irish go to Chicago to meet the Great Lakes Naval Training Station team in the sea­son's final game. 
Following, as a matter of record, is a brief review of the season's highlights. 
A Slow Start 

A capacity crowd of 40,000 fans saw an underdog Wisconsin team spoil the unveiling of the Irish T-t'ormation by holding the highly touted Leahymen to a 7-7 tie. The Badgers turned back four Notre Dame scoring threats in the first two quarters and the teams left the field at halftime in a scoreless deadlock. 
Wisconsin's "H - men," Harder and Hirsch, took charge early in the third quarter to send the Badgers out in front, 7-0. The Irish then began another drive toward their opponent's goal but a pass interception halted them 20 yards from a score. The Badgers were forced to punt to Bill Earley on the Notre Dame 43. The Irish were not to be denied again and drove the 57 yards in seven plays. Sophomore Jim Mello plunged over the goal from the two-yard line and Angelo Bertelli added the tying point from placement. The feature play of the scor­ing drive was a pass, Bertelli to Bob Livingstone, good for 25 yards. 
A determined squad of Georgia Tech Yellowjackets came to South Bend and handed the Irish their first defeat un­der Frank Leahy. Nearly 30,000 fans watched the Jackets stave off the Irish throughout the first half and then strike swiftly for the first tally in the third period. 
Sparked by freshman tailback, Clint Castleberry, the invaders hiked their lead to 13-0 in the last stanza. Not until then did the Irish start moving. Starting from their own 27 the Miller brothers, Creighton and Tom, sons of Harry, '10, took charge of the g^ame and with the aid of two Bertelli passes drove 73 yards in just nine plays for the lone Notre Dame tally. Creighton clima.xed the ground work with a 15-yard off-tackle jaunt, setting the stage for Bertelli's 15-yard touchdown pass to brother Tom. 
Illness forced head coach Frank Leahy from the battlefield two days before Marchie Schwartz returned to Notre Dame leading a gang of Stanford In­dians. Under assistant coach Ed Hc-Keever, the Irish functioned more smoothly than in either of the two pre­vious games and whitewashed the In­dians, 27-0. 
Relieved of the signal-calling duties, which were taken over by right guard Harry Wright, Bertelli pitched four touchdown passes in completing 14 out of 20 attempts. AU-American end Bob Dove was on the receiving end of the first touchdown pass; the play, coming in the second period, covered 44 yards. Captain George Murphy, right end, his substitute, Paul Limont, and Bob Livingstone were on the receiving end of the other three. 
The imderdog Irish team that steam­rollered a previously unbeaten Iowa Sea-hawk team to the tune of 28-0 was hailed by some of the nation's sports writers as the greatest of all Notre Dame teams. 
Irish Begin Rollins 

The first of the four touchdown marches started on the Irish three-yard line where Angelo Bertelli was downed after intercepting a Seahawk pass. Ber­telli passed for a short gain on first down, and the unorthodox procedure started the fireworks. On the next play sophomore- fullback Comie Clatt rushed down the sidelines for 36 yards. A pass, Bertelli to Livingstone, was good ior 10 more.. Another pass to Clatt was good for 45 yaids, as Livingstone cleared the path with the day's most spectacular blocking. Clatt went over from the three but his fumble gave the Sailors the ball on their own 20. 
Four plays later the Irish recovered a Seahawk fumble on the 38. On the first play Bertelli passed to Livingstone for a touchdown and the Irish were never headed. When the smoke had cleared, a total of 45 men had seen action for Notre Dame and the Seahawks were a thor­oughly beaten team. 
Irish On The Road 

A stubborn group of Fighting lUini attempted to halt the Irish victory cara­van in Champaign, but their efforts were not quite enough to repel the last half scoring drives of the Irish as they moved on to a 21-14 triumph 
Twice Notre Dame came from behind to knot the count. In the first quarter Clatt scored off right tackle and Bertel­U's placement matched the lUini score. Pete Ashbaug^ retiimed an Illinois punt 40 yards to the opponent's one-yard line early in the third quarter. Bertelli made the touchdown on a quarterback sneak and added the point after. Reserve full­back Gerry Cowhig plunged over ftom the one-yard marker in the last period for the winning score. 
Assisted by a wet field and a rainy afternoon, the Midshipmen from An­napolis held Notre Dame to a 9-0 victory before an estimated 50,000 fans in Cleve­land Stadium. The game marked the re­turn of Frank Leahy to the coaching helm. . 
A pass Bertelli to Dove, put the ball on the Navy one-yard line late in the sec­ond quarter. Bertelli plunged over for the touchdown and then missed his first placement in nine attempts. Reserve quarterback John Creevey added a 26­yard field goal in the final stanza of an otherwise dull game. 
76,000 fans jammed Yankee Stadium to watch the Irish win their fifth straight game of the season at the expense ot a stubborn Army team. The hard won, 13-0 victory gave Notre Dame its 20th de­cision in the 30-year-old rivalry. 
Dick Creevy, senior halfback, charged through the center of the Cadet line on a quick opening play to break a scoreless deadlock in the third quarter. Bertelli added the placement. Then in the last stanza, with the ball resting on the Army 16 and only 10 seconds remaining, Bertelli passed to Captain Murphy in the end zone. His attempted placement was wide. 
Then Came Michigan 

Perfect, football weather prevailed as Notre Dame and Michigan tangled for the first time since 1909. A record crowd of 57,000 was in Notre Dame Stadium as the two mighty dreadnaughts of the gridiron traded touchdowns for two quar­ters sending Notre Dame off the field at the half with a one-point margin.. 
The touchdown - hungry Wolverines ripped the Irish defense apart in the third quarter to make the score read 32-14. The fourth period Irish tally only eased the hitter taste of defeat. 
Notre Dame took the lead in the first period when Bertelli passed to Dove at the end of a 44-yard march. The Wolv­
erines roared back at once, driving 53 yards down the field to tie the score at 7-all. Then in" the second chapter Michi­gan forged ahead, 13-7, on a faked field goal. The Irish bounced right back on a march of their ov.-n which was aided by a fumbled punt when they were forced to kick after reaching the Wolverine 42. Captain George Murphy recovered on the Michigan 12. Getting a fresh start, the Irish banged across, with Creighty Mil­ler making the touchdown. Bertelli's placament put the Irish into the lead. 
The third period vras all Michigan's as they charged through the Notre Dame line for three touchdowns. Creighton Miller worked a "statue of liberty" play for 14 yards in the final quarter to com­plete the day's scoring. 
Clatt paced the attack in the final home game of the season as the Irish edged out an underdog Northwestern team, 27-20. The big sophomore fullback picked up 149 yards in 23 tries and scored two of the four Notre Dame touchdowns. 
The Wildcats tallied first and held a 7-6 advantage at the end of the first period. The half ended in a 13-13 dead­lock. Scoring twice in the third quarter the Irish went into a lead that was never seriously threatened. 
Otto Graham, Northwestern's junior left halfback, stole the show from Ber­telli, as he completed 13 of 23 passes to set a new Mid-West pass-completion record. Besides Clatt, Livingstone, Tom and Creighton Miller, and Dick Creevy stood out in the Irish backfield. The play of substitutes Tom Brock, center, and Jim White, tackle, who filled in for the injured men, Walt Ziemba and Lou Rym­kus, was sensational. 
BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame won from Ball State, 56­42, in the fir»t game of the year. 
Starting his 20th season as mentor of Fighting Irish basketball teams Coach George Keogan is of the opinion that Notre Dame will have "a representative team " He figures the schedule is as stiff as any he has had in his previous 19 seasons here, during the course of which his teams have won 315 games and lost 95 for a .768 mark. 
Unless enlistment and injuries hit the squad the courtmen should go pretty well. The schedule is split into two sec­tions this year, thanks to the wartime scholastic speed-up program. There will be five games played before Christmas and 15 to 17 more played between Janu­ary 16 and March 12. 
Graduation has taken three men, Cap­tain Art Pope, guard; Frank Quinn, 

I;.. 
center; and George Sobek, forward. Cy Singer, two-year letterman guard, is in the Army; and Buster Hiller, letterman forward, is in the Navy. 
Returning are the starting quintet of last season and two reserve lettermen. Lanky Bob Faught, six-foot four-inch center who set a Madison Square Garden record of 26 points last season besides leading the Irish season scoring, is back at his old post. Faught has been pushed hard by Tom Brennan, reserve last sea­son, for the first team berth. 
Johnny Neimiera and Charlie Butler, forwards who were third and fourth in scoring, seem to have their berths on the starting quint pretty well cinched. But­ler, Chicago senior and two-year letter­man, has been elected captain of the squad. Bob Eensberger and Ray Kuka are very likely to again man the guard posts. Rensberger, second only to Faught in scoring last year, and Butler are the only seniors on the starting five. Faught, Niemiera and Kuka are juniors. 
Many Brothers Appear 
The returning reserves include Ralph Vinciguerra, Omer Sturm and Jim Meagher, forwards; Tom Brennan, Ted Smith and John Moore, centers; and Charlie O'Leary guard. Best sophomore prospects—among them several brothers of basket stars of other years—are Joe Sobek, brother of George '42; Louis New-bold, brother of Bob, '29, Bill, '32, and Jim, '34; Tom Foley; Leo Klier, brother of Gene, '40; Bill Davis; Bemie Rut­ledge; Bill Wukovits, brother of Tom­my, '38; and John Feurstein. 
After a five-year lapse, basketball re­lations will be resumed with Purdue on Saturday, Dec. 19, in a game which will be a feature of Commencement week-end ct Notre Dame. DePaul, coached by Ray Meyer, '38, former Irish captain and assistant coach, will be met for the first time since 1912, in a game in the Chicago stadium. Three other games will be played in the Chicago Stadium: two with Northwestern and one with the Great Lakes Naval Training Station. 
The schedule follows: Nov. 28—Ball SUte at Notre Dame Dec 4—Western Michigan at Notre Dame Dec. 12—Northwestern at Chicago Stadiom Dec. 14—Wisconsin at Notre Dame Dec 19—Purdue at Notre Dame Jan'.16—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium Jan. 18—Pending Jan. 2.S—Kentucky at Louisville Jan. 25—Butler at Indianapolis Jan. 30—DePaul at Chicago Stadium Feh. 2—Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 6—Michigan State at Notre Dame Feb. 8—Pending Feb. 13—^New York University at New York Feb. 15—Canisius at Buffalo. New York Feb. 20—Great Lakes at Chicago Stadium Feb. 23—Butler at Notre Dame Feb. 27—^Michigan State at East lAnsinK 
March 2—Wabash at Notre Dame March 6—Marquette at Milwaukee March 8—Great Lakes at Great I^e s March 12—^Detroit at Notre Dame 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Led by Captain Oliver (Ollie) Hunter, III, the Irish cross-country team went undefeated in dual competition, finished second in the Indiana State meet, and copped sixth place in the National Col­legiate meet. 
Hunter went undefeated in the six races, setting a new course record in each one. His crowning glory came in the National at East Lansing, Mich., when he scampered over the Michigan State College four-mile course in 20 minutes and 18 seconds to clip 14 seconds fiom the meet record. 
The Irish harriers opened their season at Notre Dame by completely shellacking Loyola of Chicago, 15-46. Hunter ran a record-breaking 17:33 over the three and three eighths miles course. Trailing Hun­ter and ahead of all the Loyola runners were Tony Maloney, Frank Conforti, Don Currie, and Walt Brehmer. Hxmter led the pack home over the three-mile Uni­versity of Illinois course as the Irish beat the lUini, 24-32. Clarence Dunn, Illi­nois, was second followed by Maloney and Conforti. At the Loyola invitationai meet in Chicago, Hunter clipped 18 sec­onds from Walter Mehl's record of 17:44. Hunter's time of 17:29 was also 19 sec­onds faster than Greg Rice's old Loyola record. 
GUie's time of 17:34 over the three and three-quarter miles course at Indian­apolis automatically set a new state rec­ord as it was the first time the race was ever run at that distance. In he final home dual meet, the Irish defeated the Navy Pier team of Chicago. This time Hunter, chopped three seconds from the record he had set over the "around the Notre Dame lakes" course just four weeks previous. 
In the National Colleg^iate run Hunter set the pace for the field of 71, and stayed in the lead except for a few minutes near the two-mile mark. Ollie lost the lead' at this point when he strayed off the course and allowed Mitchell of Indiana to take a 3pO-yard lead. To Ollie it was just one more laurel to add to his collection when he caught up with and passed Mitchell to cross the finish line 300 yards in front. 
Indoor track practice was scheduled to begin Nov. 30. Coach Elvin R. "Doc" Handy said that this period, from Nov. 30 until Christmas vacation, would be a conditioning period and strict indoor workouts'would begin at the start of the next semester. The indoor schedule is not yet completed. 

ALUMNI CLUBS «
 4k 

CHICAGO 
Lt. (j.K.) John F. Clark, '33, 4738 Washins­ton St, Chicago, Pres.; Fnnklyn E. Doan, *29, 314 17th St., Wilmette, 111., Sec 

The club has teen praising the Lord and swing-ins into position. Governors Ray McGrath and Jce Dorffan are wearing the brown and President Jack Clark, following the lead of First Vice-Presi­dent Barry O'Keefe, began wearing the blue in late summer. Down through the roll of the 1,300 members of the club the boys are in uniform in all parts of this global world. 
What is left of the officers and governors, sometimes referred to as the nine old men, are carrying on as best they can with due regard for the dearth of nylon, petrol and antimony. Jack Clark is on the selection board for naval air cadets and is around town enough to keep things congealed, but Heir Apparent Bill Kearney is do­ing the leg work, and effectively. 
On Nov. 9 a large chunk of the faithful joined the regular Monday noon wing-backs at the justly famous Wailing Wall to see pictures of the Army-
N.D. game. The cinema offering was a little dark but there was a rainbow at the end. Bob Snyder and Moose Kraase were on hand to ad lib the sound trcck. They made a hit. 
Came Nov. 20 and the eve of the annual North­western game- So the yearly joint luncheon of the N.U.-N.D. alumni clubs was held at the Bismarck Hotel with President James O'Keefe of the N.U.­ers and President Jack Clark of the" NJ).ers in dual charge of the gavel. It is said that a wager reared its ugly head here and there. 
Closing and biggest event on the current calen­dar will be the annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday. Dec. 6. Chicago Notre Dame men will re­ceive at the 9 o'clock Mass in old St. Mary's Church, Ninth and Wabash, and will then head for the Blackstone Hotel where bacon and eggs will be taken apart. 
• Franklyn E. Doan 

CINCINNATI 
UUkmii H. SUel*. ex. •». 12S1 Geit St, Pre*.: Walter J. Nienaker. '» . 1558 BUxa­hcth Phcc, Sec 

Our first fall meeting was held at our club room in the Kemper Lane Hotel on Oct. 8. It was the largest crowd we had had for a long time. Frank Sweeney, manacer of the Kemper Lane Hotel, served an excellent dinner. 
We were rather fortunate in havins as our guest speaker. Dick Bray, the well known sports announcer for WLW who had been broadcasting all the Notre Dame games. Dick told us many of the things he has noticed while up there in those enviable press box seats. 
It was decided at the meeting to purchase $700 

worth of war bonds to be placed in our Scholar­
ship Fund and a general invitation was extended 
to the alumni and other friends of Notre Dame to 'contribute bonds. 
Bob Haihei is the latest member of our club to enter the armed forces. 
Andy Barton was named chairman for our an­nual Christmas dance and he will be very well assisted by Paol Janun. 
J. Walter Nienabcr 

The 1941-1942 Alumni Board 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., 11, New York City.. .honorary President Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Lansing, Mich. President Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, Indianai>olis, Ind First Vice-President Alfonso A, Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif. Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Pame, Ind. Seeretary-Trecisurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Bame, Ind. Assistant Secretary Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HI. Director to 194t John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. .Director to 194S William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind. JHrector to 1944. 
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, M^itor, Ohio . Ray J. Eichenlaab, '15, Columbus, Ohio 
DENVER 
John H. Humphreys.'32, 1423 Race St..prea.; John F. Connell, *23. 2718 Fillmore St. Sec 

.. . At the kind invitation of Herb Fiurall, Jr., now with the Marines in Hawaii, and the Fairall family in Denver, members of the club, their wives and guests, attended the annual mountain steak fry at the Fairall mountain home near Ever­green on July 18. 
Guests of the club included N.D. men stationed at Denver's army posts: Chick GoUasher of Hil­ton. Mass.; Tcm Sherman of Louisville: Tony Scallero of Chicago; and Bob Dolan of Kansas City. 
Regular August meeting postponed until Sept. 3, when we met with the Quarterback Club. .. . This dinner was held to give a civic welcome to the West Coast Army All-Star football team, here in Denver, for the Army Relief game with the Chicago Cardinals on Sept. 6. 
Bob Maddock and Ray Ebli, former N.D. play­ers with the Cards, telegraphed their greetings to the club and expressed regret at not being able to be present. 
Jerome Matthews. *75, oldest Notre Dame alum­nus, was the guest speaker. . . . . . . The regular September meeting was held Sept. 23. . . . News-letters and snapshots of the 
N.D. mountain club picnic were mailed to club members in the armed forces. The committee also presented to the club the roll of honor listing names of N.D, men in service from Denver and Colorado. The club plans to present another Rockne Memorial Trophy to the state Catholic high school football champions. Joe Mycn is chair­man of this committee. 
The featured entertainment of the evening was the full color motion pictures of the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game of 1939, taken and shown by Joe Marshall. .. . 
. . . The October meeting was the annual N.D. Press Club Smoker for sports writers and radio men. Al Dowds and Ed Owens were on the com­mittee for the entertainment. 
Jolin F. O'CmmeD 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre. '28. 1117 RayMond Ave.. 
Bethlehem. Pres. 

The club was present at dedication ceremonies on Sept. 20 of the Rockne Hall erected for Central Catholic High School in Allentown-
Director to 1945 Ex-Offieio Director to 194t 

Presided over by Honsignor Leo G. Fink, princi­pal of the high school, the ceremonies included the presentation of an enlarged colored picture of Rack, given by Notre Dame. John H. Nceson. a , principal speaker, (and an excellent one) read a message from FaUur O'DonncO, which was enthu­siastically received by the audience of 5,000. 
Monsignor Fink and Mr. Neeson addressed a gathering of Notre Dame men at a dinner get-together after the dedication in a private dining room of the Americus hotel. 
Leo Mclntyre 

LOS ANGELES 
Jolu W. Cufcenr. '35, »4S S. Dttnit. Pnc ; 
HIcfcad F. <*•••—. Jr., ex. *39. 4312 ySe­
toria Path Drive, Sec 

With Francis Wallace as master of ceremonies the club opened its fall season with a Pigsldn Preview Dinner at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel. Sept. 22. More than 100 attended. 
Rev. Charles A. HcQuillan, S.J., president of Loyola University, was guest of honor. Wallace introduced Jaecph Scett, laent. Ronald Reagan (George Gipp), Harry W. Flanncry and Congress­man John M. Costello, all of whom made inspiring talks. Others introduced included Rev. John Con­nolly, S.J., dean of Loyola, Coach Bemie Bradley of Loyola. Coach Monk Simon of Talane, Gus Vignolie of the *'L. A. Examiner," and Gordon Hacker of the "News." 
pTt. Owen McGrtdridc. former guard, and brother of Jim HcCMdridE. captain of the "fi^t-Irish" in 1938, got leave of absence from Camp Ycung in Needles and traveled several hundred miles to attend. Full length motion pictures of the 1041 N.D.-U.S.C. game were shown and narrated by, TMB Leaky, brother of Ceack Leahy, and one of our new members. 
On Oct. 25, Lawrenc: Back Shaw, coadi of S.inta Clara University and former Rockne pupil, was honored at a smoker at the Ambassador Hotel. Jimaur phrfaui of St. Mary's was invited, but nn* ab!e to attend. 
Al Howard said goodbye to Ms friends as be was about to be in active service with the U. S. Cocst Guard. • It was also announced that Cari Raasch, '39, now a private at Camp Roberts, was about to be sent to Officers Training School, and Lawrence A. Moore, '30, is training at San IKeffo 
as a specialist in the Navy. He will be trans­ferred shortly. 
"A-1" classification cards were mailed to all xriembers with instructions for them to report to the Acme Draught Board. Acme Sequoia Lodge, Los Angeles, Calif., for dinner on Oct. 27. Dinner and refreshments were given by the Bohemian Distributing Co. and the Acme Breweries, hosts to well over 100 alumni and their guests. 
Brief talks were made by Rev. George M. Scott, chaplain. Paul Ummerman. sports editor of the Los Angeles '"nmes," Coach Bemie Bradley. Brauen Dyer of the "Times." Leo Ward, and Jackson Hughes, blind member of the Adven­turers Club. 
Michael F. Shannon, Jr. 
MILWAUKEE 
Earl P. HcCarnin, '23. 3760 X. Second St.. PKS. ; John E. Claader,'34. 1219 W. Vliet St.. Sec 
"Club activities have been very lax for the past year or so—the result: no news. We held our an­nual picnic in August and James Wheslcr was elected president, Charles O'Neill, vice-president, and yours truly is still secretary. .. . I had planned on coming down for the Northwestern game, but am now working from 11 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., seven nights a week .. . so it doesn't leave me much time for anything else. . . ." 
John Clauder 
MINNESOTA 
Charles J. Hallmmn, ex. *25, 179 Irnng Ave., N., Minneapolis, Pres.; Walter D. Hall. '25. 210 W. 40tli St., Minneapolis. Sec. 
Here are a few names of the Minnesota Notre Dame club now in the armed services: Lieut. Joseph R. SciiFoeder, '31, Rome Air Depot, Rome, 
N. Y.; Lieut. Robert Fogerty, '28, Army Air Forces P.F.S. (B-N), Ellington Field, Texas; Ensiffn John G. Case}-, *41, Air Operational Train­ing, Naval Air Station. Miami, Fla. 
A note from Bob Fogerty says he is assigned to teaching. He got his Ph.D. degree from the University of Minnesota in June just before he received his "orders" in July. 
Another note from John Casey's father indi­cates John Jr. won his Na\*y wings at Corpus Christi "University of the Air" on Sept. 11. 
The last meeting of our club was held Sept. 29, President Joe Hallman presiding. There it was de­cided not to have our regular Christmas Ball this year. Although this has been an important and successful function of our club, we felt it neces­sary to pass it up this year because there is more serious business at hand. 
About 20 of us took our -wives to dinner and 
dance at the Curtis, Saturday, Oct, 10. We must 
give the wives credit for "engineering" the deal 
and it was a good deal. 
Waller HaU 
NEW YORK aiy 
Jowph G. FcfeU '29. Hotel WoodstMk, 127 
W. 43rd St^ Pro.; Ximetliy J. Toomey, '30, Hotd W«odstM^ 127 W. 43rd St. Sec 
Tbe club decided that it wasn't going to be in­timidated by adverse war conditions this year, and, with Colman O'Shanghnessy, '31. leading the interference, the biggest and best Rally was put over in grand style. The Army Emergency Relief was made an equal beneficiary of the proceeds with our Scholarship Fund. 
We took the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf-Astoria^ the biggest and finest there is. An honorary committee was chosen, with Rev. H>cl> O'Donnell, CS.C , president of the Univer­sity, and Lt. Gen. Hach A. Dram. U.S.A.. co-chairmen, and ranking generals as well as prom* inent businessmen making up the body. 
The entertainment was largely top-flight the­atrical stars. Morton Downey, Frank Fay, Phil Spitalny's 30 Girl Choir, Billy Banks, sensational negro baritone, Benay Venuta, Constance Hoore. and Lucy Monroe, (the Star-Spangled Banner Girl) made up the two floor-shows. Captain Wil­liam Maguire, U.S.N., and Hon. James A. Farley addressed the gathering briefly. The Notre Dame Band comprising 101 pieces opened the program with a lively concert of collegiate and popular airs. Francis Walther, '25, and his orchestra thrilled the dancers with their smooth music. 
The radio program was on a nation-wide Blue Network hook-up and short-waved to all combat areas. The broadcast was opened by Father O'Don* nell who delivered an inspiring talk. A round-table of famous sports authorities discussed the football game which was played the following day. Qnen­tin Reynolds, famous war correspondent, talked of his exciting experiences in the war areas. 
The club is deeply indebted to the really master-, ful job that Ed Sullivan, world-famous columnist and theatrical authority, did as master of cere­monies. 
Carl Waite. old Georgetown football star, auc­tioned off a football autographed by Army and 
N.D.
 coaches and players. It went to Major E. B. 

S.
 Walker of New York City for S650 cash. A duplicate ball was sought by Mrs. J. J. Callahan of Oak Park. 111., on our promise to produce it, so another check for S500 brought the total con­tribution to S1150. 


Close to 2,000 attended and the Waldorf manage­ment told us they never had had a more desirable gathering. Nearly everybody to whom we talked was delightfully surprised with the wonderful time they had had and the club officers were even more surprised at finding their half of the pro­ceeds was greater than the total of any previous rally. 
Special mention is due to Grattan Stanford, *04, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, for his wise counsel and broad gen­erosity; to James M. Carroll, '31. Joseph G. FricI, '29. and Charles Donahue, *25, for the time and energy that they extended to put the affair across. 
The moral of this rally, and there is one, is that Notre Dame men can plan and produce bet­ter affairs than any other University group—if they believe in themselves and really set out to do it. 
At the monthly meeting of the club on Oct. 6, at the Woodstock. Colman O'ShanKfanessy, '31. chairman of the Rally Committee, outlined plans for the "biggest and best" ever to be undertaken by the club. 
Dan O'Ncil, *25, announced that Johnny Bams, *31. was the winner of the two reserve seats for selling the most chance books for the Scholarship Fund by the night of. the meeting. Johnny has earned his way into the game for the last five years in this manner. He really is the club's ace salesman. 
Major Joseph Tiemey, '21, a member of the Manpower Commission, delivered a highly inter­esting talk on the current employment question in the Emergency. , , , • 
The meeting on Nov. 3. as usual, brought out one of the largest gatherings of the year; prob­ably this was due to the fact that it was the eve­ning of the drawing of the tickets donated by the Scholarship Fund. Jade Lavelle, '28. vice-president of the club, conducted the drawings. 
Dan O'Keil announced that the sale of chance books had fallen off considerably this year be­cause many of the best salesmen were in the Armed Forces. A portion of the deficit was gener­ously made up by Grattan Stanford, '04. who contributed $100 to the Scholarship Fund. 

Joseph G. .Friel, '29. announced that John C. Bams. '31. and James Dwyer, *26, were appointed by the Board of Governors to succeed John A. Hoyt, Jr., '33, and Jordan Hargrove. '35. Hoyt re­signed because of continued absence from the city and Hargrove was called to active Naval duty at an officer's training school. "Jackson" Lavelle, '28, ye olde huntsman and leading Catholic prep school coach in the city at this writing, was unanimously chosen to succeed Hoyt as the vice-president. 
Tim Toomey 

PHILADELPHIA 
E. Bradley Bailey, ex. *23, Rydal. Pa., Pres.; Cliffovd E. Prodeh], '32, 6070 Chester Ave.. Sec 
Heetincs—Second Tuesday of each month at Philopatrian Literary Institute, 1923 Walnut St. 

At a recent meeting the following committees were selected for the coming season: Speakers— under guidance of Father John P. Lynch, C.S.C., Tom Byrne, Frank Shapiro, Jack Kenny, Louis Alaman: Ways and Means—Harold Duke, Boh Daffy; Military—Ensign John H. Neeson, Jr., and Joe Wackerman; New Students—Walt Ridley, Clarence (Jessie) James; Athletics—Walt (Babe) Marshall, Clipper Smith, Vince McNally, Stan Chanowicz, Johnny Kelleher; Constitution—Chair­man, Tom Byrne, Harold Duke, Frank Shapiro; Publicity—Charlie Connelly; Fathers and Sons— Fred Frick, whose son, Jimmie, now is in V-7 classification at Columbia University: Colleges in Area—Gene Ryan, of Jefferson Medical College; Loa Cenni, Temple; Father Molter, Newman Hall, University of Pennsylvania. 
We have returned to our meeting place of a few years _ ago. Do not be deceived by "haut monde" sound of the title; it really is inhabited by a regular bunch of fellows if you are contemplat­ing making a call. 
Fa'her Lyndi, who is stationed at the Medical Mission Sisters in Fox Chase, arranged to have se\'eral of our group act as ushers at the Grctto of Our Lady of Lourdes. 
Dan Young, a chairman, and the club did a bang-up job on the football drawing, r.nd we have established a fund to partially defray ex­penses of a boy from this area to Notre Dame with the proceeds. The club managed to put some­thing into a bare cupboard and it's pleasant to be able to look creditors in the face. It's easy to understand why Dan is a leader in his field after this feat. 
Lieut. Walt Philipp is handing out cigars (pure rumor) and rubbing it into Josh D'Amora for not having a N.D. candidate as Walt did. 
Vince Donohae is attending Temple Law School at night. We wondered why he wasn't attending the metings. Incidentally, if you want anything done at that University. Jim Nolan seems to be the one to see to get it. 
Our guests have included the head of the FBI in this area. John Sears, and Ensign Shirley, who recently returned from Pearl Harbor, and the Southeastern combatant waters. 
Boh Dacey has been promoted from ensign to lieutenant (j.g.), and that additional half stripe looks mighty becoming. 
Jade Reilly tells me that Dan Hatpin has be­come a neighbor of his, and he promises to come to our meetings. 
Periodically we hear from old members and sometimes they even show up—we hope it gets to 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
be a habit especially with Dr. Kel Kasper, Bill Bodo, Tom and Joe LcStranre et al. Cliff Prodehl 
HcCresdy Huston, editor of "Frontiers" maga­zine, formerly with the "Trib" and the late "News-Hmes" in South Bend, will speak to the club at the meeting on Dec. 15* His subject will be: "Ruckne—The Modest Genius." 
A ChallenKe Probably all Notre Dame clubs open with a prayer for Notre Dame men in the armed forces of the United Nations and for the happy repose of the souls of all Notre Dame men who have died in our country's armed forces—at least that is part of the constitution of the Philadelphia club. Let's hear how many do this. 
E. Bradley Bailey, President. 

Lt. Harry Francis, '30, is in Dayton, O., United Nations Branch, 3rd National Bank Building. 
Father Bernard Farley, our chaplain, has been 
ill. Father John P. Lynch, C.S.C., '25. has taken over, and. man, what a spark plug! Hope he stays long in our midst. 
Doctor Joseph Toland, father of Paul, '42. took over the boys from Jefferson Medical School. It's a great help having a doctor in the club who can give the Catholics advice needed by up-and-coming young medicos. 
We have a loyal group of Notre Dame boys at Jefferson Medical School. They are the leaders there, too. Here they are, and their address is 252 South 11th Street: Jim Foley, '41. Jcroms J. Froelidi, '41; Loafs A. Reiser, *41: Eugene Ryan, *4l; Raymond M. Williams, '41; John B. Flynn, *40 ; and Walter Brennan, *41. 
Harry Reinhart lives at 1124 Walnut street and Thomas A. I^StranRe, 904 Childs avenue. Drexel Hill, Pa. 
Doctor Kelvin A. Kasper, ex. '22, is on the teaching staff at Jefferson and the coach and cnptain of our skeet and trapshooting team. 
Vice-president Jack Reilly. ex. '31. is in charge of stores at the Penn Jersey aiipbuilding cor­poration, Camden. N. J. 
Ex-president Walt Rid!ey, along with ex-presi­dent Joe Wackerman, '35, the architect, are build­ing plenty these days. Joe is in the engineering department of the Atlantic Refining company. Walt is with the Devoe of Pittsburgh. 
Jim Nolan, Jr., '35, has taken over his dad's farm of 1,000 acres. 5,000 chickens and 100 head of four-legged stock. This now makes Jim a "squire" — "You know what I mean," quoting Father Lynch. 
Harry Callahan. *17. sure is doing a fine job in the east here for Libby Owen Ford glass block division. He's head of our outdoor hunting squad. 
Babe Marshall, coach at Northeast Catholic High School, has lost only one game this year. Babe has an athletic plan for the club members that really expands the pores. 
(Dean) Major Dnsald Caleb Jackson, Jr., Frank­ford Arsenal, never misses a meeting when in the city. He e./ways has something worthwhile to tell us and keeps the old Notre Dame pride right up there. The dean is doing a good N.D. job here. 
Bob Dnffy, ex-president from Joliet, 111., is solving law problems here for the government. Room 804, Securities Exchange Commission Build­ing, Eittenhouse Square. 
JoeFarrell, '15, the G.E. company traveling ex­ecutive from Harrishurg, was in town for our meeting. Joe has more ideas than a dog has fleaa when it comes to plans for the endowment drive. 
Fats Colgan, '21, the quarter-miler with Gcorce Meredith under Captain Eddie Meduin, *20. was in town. Colgan is on the staff of the "Sacred Heart Magazine." We "hashed" over the famooa mile run when Cy Kaaper, '21, ganged up on Joie Ray and beat him for the first time. 
We had word that the two boys in the Navy Hospital here are doing fine. Lt. Kyle Donnel, ex. '38, and Ensign Paul Morrison, '40. They like to learn how their mates are doing. 
We want all Notre Dame men who are in this area from time to time to call Kingsley 2590 and perhaps we can be of help. 
Ed Bailey and Jim Nolan (assisting Cliff ProdeU) 

RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHWESTERN MASSACHUSEHS 
John J. McLanghlin, *3I, Mcndon Rd., Cnrnt" berland Hill, R. L, Prei.: RDSMII L. Hniit, '39, 493 S. Main St., , Woonsockct, R. L, Sec 

The club was well represented at the Notre Dame-Army game by those members who have not as yet been called to S€r\*e in the country** armed forces. Six hundred residents of this vicin­ity witnessed the only Irish appearance in the east. 
Ed Kransc, '34. was a visitor at the home of the group's president, John HcLaacfalin. '34, following the Army-Harvard game at Cam­bridge which Krause scouted for N. D. 
John S. McKieman, another member of the '34 class, has been appointed first assistant city solicitor for the city of Providence. 
Several of the club's members are serving in different branches of the nation's combatant services. Among them are: John Brady» *35, who is naval lieutenant (j.g.) stationed at the Quonset Naval Air Base here in R. I.; Daniel E. Keefe, who is a private first class, at present located somewhere in the Pacific: John Hclntyie, '40. who is to be remembered as the grid team's first string center in 1940, serving at Corpus Christi, Tex. John has an ensign's rating. Tom Powers. '2S, is another service man but his whereabouts is unknown. The club would like to hear from him. Charles V. Camdl .'39, is in 
Francis Wallace ' 2 3, p r e t i des as toastmaster at th e Pigskin Preview Din­ner of the Los Angeles Club 
on Sept. 22. 
the radio brandi of tfae navy and is soon to be commisnoned. 
Lee K. BIcAloaB. '30, civilian defense leader in the city of Pawtncket, has been commended by army leaders in this locality for the work he has done alon^ that line for the city. 
Joe ManiteM, '3$. has been reported woiUns at a new job. havinff deserted ra^o statkm-WJAB in Providence. He is with NBC In New York. 
n m Scpe» 35, Is still holding down his t>osi­
tion with the Public Loan Corp. in Newjmrt, 
the state's historic city by the sea. 
Carictaa MsrdsagaM, '38, is a member of the teaching staff In the public schools in the city of Cranston. Bamdl L. Hant* '39, is at present head clerk in the tax assessor's office in Woon­socket. 
Jade Bfartin. a Providence newspaperman, has been givinK Notre Dame quite a bit of &vorabla publicity having covered the Stanford and Army games from their points of orii^ and has en­thused Rhode Islanders with his comments on the work of Jim MeDa who had been dcang « bang-up job at fallback until injuries caught up with him. 
The club, in spite of the gas rationing in this . section of the country, will bold an important meeting In the near future to discuss the Cen­tenary Fond. All graduates serving In this vicin­ity with the country's armed forces are Invited to attend. Notices of time and place will be pub­lished. 
News for this colonm is solicited by the writer. Let's have it! Kasaell L. Hant. 
SANDUSKY 
Jala J. MillMt. ex. '27. tM (MM M St. 
Fics.: Jaha B. Sanid. '4t. 7U Ftick •riU­
iMt. See. 

Our last year's president. Frud s 0*Hun. ex. '34, was home for a short visit recently. Re had just been commissioned a second lieutenant after completing his training at Fort Benninff. Ga. 
Add weddinz bells: Seqteant H. Jaka Beibteia. ex. '40. Camp Lee. Va., became ensaged recently to Hiss Eileen Kaiy Doyle, of NorwaUc. O., a graduate of St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dane. Jack attended Notre Dame for two years and then was graduated from Ohio State University. Incidentally, his sister, Kary Louise Bailstein. was recently married to Jehn Kennedy, of Lorain, O., a'so a Notre Dame man. 
A third members of our local group, although working in Cleveland most of the time. Paul W. Carroll, '35, now in the Army and stationed in New Mexico, recently completed a 14-day stay at home. 
C. Faber Donahue, '93. has accepted a position with the local office of the O.P.A. 
John £. Savord 
TRIPLE CITIES 
James H. Hogan, *34. 62 Mar>- St., Bingham­tcn. Pres.; James W. McCabc, '40, 56 Park PL. Johnson City, Sec 
Recently we held a meeting of officers in the office of the Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, director of Catholic Charities, and at the meeting set a goal for the Centenary Fund Drive. The goal decided upon was a 5-5 bond from every active alumnus, and as many more bonds as we can get from the friends of Notre Dame in this area. As in the case of all alumni clubs, our ranks have been greatly depleted by the call of the armed forces. At pres­ent we have 12 active alumni home. It is our aim to get a 100 per cent response from those 12. 
Father Toomey is the chairman of the Alumni Drive, and the co-chairmen of the Friends of Notre Dame Drive are Police Chief Michael J. Hanifin and I^wrence J. Kane. The results of the drive will be ready for the next issue of the "Alumnus." We shall expect the bonds to be in by Feb. 1. 1943. 
Recently the club elected new officers: James 
H. Hogan, '34, president; Francis J. Sullivan, '40, vice-president; James W. McCabc, '40, secretary-treasurer. The club and Notre Dame were ser\'ed well by its former officers, particularly its presi­dent, Harold Desnoyer. 
The Notre Dame men at home are active. Daniel 
J. McAvoy, ex. '25, is (this is written on Oct. 27) practically assured of the county judgeship; Ed­ward O'Brien is running for district attorney, the office now occupied by Dan McAvoy. Ted GrifTln is the city treasurer of Binghamton. and John Donnelly is a city official. Bob McCabe, of John­son City, is now teaching Latin and English in Johnson City High School. He was married last Jan. 24 to Eleanor Z^ne of Johnson City. Johnny Murphy of Endicott is doing a fine job as assistant coach at Union Endicott High School. Father Toomey is very much in demand as a spsaker. He recently delivered a eulogy at the funeral of Father Flynn. a widely-known priest of the Syra­cuse diocese, and I have never heard a better. The club is also preparing to get behind the usual Christmas dance, sponsored jointly by the alumni and the campus club of the Triple Cities. In spite of obvious difficulties, we shall endeavor to make a success of it, so that we can continue our schol­arship fund which was begun a few years ago. 
James W. McCabc 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John HcMahon, *28, 446 Longridgc Drive, Moant Lebanon, Pa., Pres.; William H. Cin­der, Jr.. '31, 504 Gettysburg St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
P, F. Sheedy, father of four Notre Dame grad­uates, has passed away. Our deepest sympathies are extended to Morgan, '22, John C. '28, Father Charles. '33, recently ordained, and Scott. '39. 
We welcome a former Chicagoan, John M. Crimmins, '33, to Pittsburgh. John is with the legal department, Koppers Company, and is living at 33 Sunnyhill Drive. Mt. Lebanon. He's got two boys, Pat (age 2) and Mike (age 9 months). 
We were shocked to read of the death of Capt. 

The Notre.Dame Alumnus 
These alumni of Santiago, Chile, greeted Bishop John F. 0*Hara in Nov­ember, 1941, on the occasion of the Eucharistic Congress. Left to right are Carlos Cariola Valdes, Eugenio Vial Freire, Enrique Rosselot, Bishop 0*Hara, Luis Rivera, Luis Vial Echenique and Alejandro Rivera (brother of Luis). 
George C. Wassell, '31. George had been a flight surgeon in the Army since 1941 and wasn't out of the country more than a week when his par­ents received the report that he was killed in a crash over the British Isles. Sept. 2S. 
Ken Stillcy. '36, is now teaching physical edu­cation at Clairton High School. He was formerly at Allentown High School. If you want to be cor­rect—you'll now address Hugo lacovctti's, '34. mail with second lieutenant, Stanley Adamonis, *39, is now coaching at St. Veronica's High School in Ambridge. 
Morgan F. Sheedy, '22, can be reached at the Air Force Technical School, Madison, Wis. Jimmy Dodson, *30, recently received a lieutenant's com­mission in the U. S. Navy. John Pavlick, '34, is now yeoman. 3rd Class. U. S. Navy, and at last report was stationed in Pittsburgh. 
Bill Cronin, '29, has been transferred to Cin­cinnati by Kellogg Sales Co. (With rationing imminent, he can be sure of breakfast anyway). 

Second Lieut. Larrj- O'TooIe, '36, should be ad­dressed 4th A.M. Battrlion, 4th Motorized Divi­sion, Camp Gordon, Ga. How that guy gets around! 
We have a new waitress at the Hotel Henry (Luncheons every Thursday, any time between 12 and 1:30) who is responsible for a recent increase in the attendance. Larrj* O'Tools, a few weeks ago, was jokingly pestering her for a third cup of coffee. She took hold of the lapel of his uniform and said. "Listen soldier—forget the uni­form. This is War!" Then later to everyone's amusement, including Larry's, she proceeded to tell him confidentially what she thought of Judge James O^TtwIe's judicirl ability because of his de­cision in a recent case with which she was famil­iar. Was her face red when she learned that Larry was Jim's brother. You'll enjoy our luncheons. 
John AIcMahon, our president, was recently made director of the Industrial Hygiene Founda­tion. Congratulations! 
And I almost forgot, Mrs. Cinder had a baby boy on Oct. 25. Mother and baby are fine and your secretary is consulting the financial journals for waj's and means of supporting three children. 
Wm. H. H. Ginder, Jr. 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Continued from Page 18) 
Spencer, Norbert J., '40, Pvt..U.S. Army. Hci. & Hq. Co., Reception Center, Fort Benjamin Har­rison, Ind. 
Spohn, H. Louis, ex. '33, Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. D, o2nd Bn., Camp Wolters, Texas. 
Stone, Robert J., '34, Pvt., U.S. Army, Finance Replacement Training Center, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Stroker, Cyril F., '37, Ensign, U.S.N.R., 204 North Blvd., Salisbury. Md. Sturm, ^Villi.^m J., '41, Ensign, (SC), U.S.N.R.. Naval Supply Depot, Bayonne, N. J. Sukiennik, Mattliew S., '40, Pfc, U.S. Army, Tilton General Hospital, Fort Dix, N. J. Sullivan, John F., '31, Co. A, 5th Trng. Bn., Camp Wheeler, Ga. Sullivan, John M., '37, Ensign, D-V(P), U.S.N.R. 

Talcott, Harrison W., ex. '04, Lt. Col., U.S. Army. 
A.P.O. 508. c/o Postmaster, New York City. 

Tcagarden, James L.. '41, Corp.. U.S. Army. Co. C, 7th Ord. Tr. Bn., Ord. Rep. Trg. Center. Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. 
Tearney, Thomas W., '42, U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School. Tower Hall. Chicago, III. Theisen, Cyril C, '32, 2nd LL, U.S. Army. U.S. Army Engineers Office, Cnrrabelle, Fla. Thompson. Lawrence, e.'c. '39. Lt.. U.S. Army, ICth Cavalry, Fort Riley. Kan. 
Tobin. William M., '42. Pfc. U.S. Army, Fin.ince Office, Camp Kilmer, New Brunswick, N. J. Tompkins, John J., '34, 3Gth Armored Regt., Hq. 
Co., A.P.O. 258, Fort Knox. Ky. Torok, Andrew C. e-x. '30. U.S. Army, Lincoln Air Base, S.S. 7C0, Lincoln, Nebr. 
Towner, Robert W., ex. '43, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Btry. D, 81st A.B.A.A. Bn., 101st A.B. Div., Fort Bragg, N, C. 
Tre.\ler,- Ralph J., '41, U.S.N.A.S., Box 3S-H, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
Ti-lutki, Walter R., '33, Pvt., U.S. Army, 1st Trng. Bn.. Co. 0-431, Port Benjamin Harrison, Ind. 
Van Beersum, Rev. Anthony G., '34. Lt.. Chaplain 
U.S. Army, Fort Sill, Okla. ' Vance, Lynn, ex. '31, U.S. Army, Station Hospital 
D.C. No. 1, Fort Sill, Okla. Vaslett, Eugene F., '38. U.S. Army, Camp Pickett, Va. 
Wagner, George A., '28, Lt. (j.g.), U.S. Coast Guard .Roosevelt Base, N.O.B., Terminal Island, Calif. 
Walling, Thomas D.. ex. '27, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. 
C. 1st A.A. Tng. Bn., Fort Eustis, Va. 

Ward, John J., '41. Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. B, 62nd Inf., 3rd Platoon, Trg. Bn., Camp Wolters. Texas. 
Weideman, Martin L , e-v. '42, Post Finance Office, Sheppard Field, Texas. Weinfurtner. Edward M., '42, U.S.N.R. Midship­men's School, Notre Dame, Ind. Wesolowski. Sigmund A., '42, U.S.N.R. Midship-
msn's School. Notre Dame, Ind. Whelan, Vincent M., '32. Carlisle Barracks, Pa. White, Stanley J., '38, U.S. Army, Officer Candi­
date Co. D. Ord. Off. Cand. Sch., Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. Wilkins, Noel F., '41, Co. H, Officer Candidate School, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. Willemin. Richard D., '42, 302 A.A. Corp. Tech. Sch., Filght D. Bks. 10, Keesler Field, Miss. Withey, John W., e.x. '27, Pvt . U.S. Army SOS M.P.E.G., Bks. 7228, Camp McCoy, Wis. 
Worley. Lloyd F.. '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R.. Naval Officers Training School, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. 
Yorke, Edward T., '30, 1st Lt.. U.S. Army, M«li­cal Corps. Atlanta. Ga. 
The Notre Da ntre Alumnus 
THE ALUMNI 
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
Capt. George C. Wassell, '31, of Shar­on, Pa., a flight surgeon with the Army Air Forces, was killed on Oct. 3 over the British Isles. The War Department notified his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph 
T. Wassell, of Pittsburgh, in a brief tele­gram which gave few details. 
Li 
CAPT. GEORGE C. WASSELL, '31 

Educated in medicine in St. Louis Uni­versity, George had practiced in Sharon for nearly three years and had left a rapidly expanding practice there to join the Air Force in April, 1941. Graduated from the Army School of Aviation Med­icine at Randolph Field, Texas, in June, 1942, in the first such class, he was, in September, assigned to the Army Bomb­er Command for overseas duty and had bai-ely arrived in England when he was killed in a plane accident; 
Surviving George besides his parents is his sister, Mrs. George M. Zapp, Nar­berth. Pa. 
On Oct. 3 also, but in a far different part of the world, another Notre Dame man gave his life in World War II. He was Pilot Officer Lionel V. O. Smith, '33, of El Paso, Texas, and Buffalo, N. Y., who died on this thirtieth birthday in an accidental air crash near Hydera­bad, Sind, India, as a member of the Canadian Koyal Air Corps. 
PILOT OFFICER LIONEL V. O. SMITH, '33 
Lionel was graduated early in 1941 from the Canadian flying school in Win­nipeg, Canada, and had been on duty since then in England, Gibraltar and India. He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. 
L. R. Thomson, El Paso. Surviving in addition are his brother Richard S. Smith, '37, of Los Angeles, two sisters and another brother, 
.4n outstanding student, Li attended St. Edwards' University in Texas before he came to Notre Dame to finish magna cum laude in Commerce. Later he was graduated from the Harvard Graduate School of Business. Employed by Halsey, Stuart & Co. in Buffalo, N. Y., he was one of the most active members of the local Notre Dame club, serving as presi­dent for a term. 
Ensign Charles H. O'Donnell, ex. '40, of Gary, Ind., was killed in a crash of a single motored United States Navy plane near Mt. Meridian, Ind., on Nov. 
21. Killed in the.same accident was Mar­vin Lewis Bergman, aviation machinist's mate, second class, of Kansas City, Mo. 
Charlie enlisted in the Navy two years ago and received his wings at Pensacola, Fla. He attended the University of Chi­cago as well as Notre Dame and was a member of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. 
ENSIGN CHARLES H . O'DONNELL, ex. '40 
Pfc Ambrose I. Rice, Jr., of South Bend, a student at Notre Dame in 1934­36, was killed in action on Guadalcanal Island as a member of the United States Marines and was given a military burial there according to the brief word re­ceived by his parents in November. 
Brose worked for the International Harvester Company in' Jackson, Mich., before he joined the Marines on Dec. 21, 1941. He took part in the invasion of the Solomon Islands early in -August. Surviving besides his father and mother is a brother. Jack. 
PFC. AMBROSE I. RICE, JR., ex. '38 

The Notre^Dame Alumnus 
WUIiam J. McJunkin, '42, of Winnet­ka, HI., was killed in a crash on Nov. 4 while in training as a naval aviation cadet at Corpus Christi, Texas. Enlisting in the Navy when he was a senior, Bill reported for cadet training shortly after his graduation. He was buried at home. 
Surviving are his mother and a sister, Mrs. Helen Harvey. Bill's father, the late William D. McJunkin, was a promi­nent advertising agency leader in Chi­cago. 
Lieut. Anthony J. Seaman, ex. '40, Greenville, S. C, was killed in a plane crash in the "Western European Area" on Oct. 20. One of the few fliers to wear two wings, Anthony was serving with the 88th Air Force in London. He had served for a year with the American Eagle Squadron. He was a student at Notre Dame in 1936-38. 

Private Joteph F. Riley, ex. '37, of Weston, W. Va., was killed in action "somewhere in the Pacific" according to word received by his family on Oct. 16 from the Marine Corps. 
After attending Notre Dame for two years, Joe was graduated from Duquesne University in 1939 and was later em­ployed by the West Virginia Glass Spe­cialty Company. Enlisting in the Ma­rines in December, 1941, he was sent overseas in April, 1942. Surviving are a brother and a sister. 
Engagements 
Hiss Mary Elizabeth Huldoon and Alfred J. Hiecel. '34. of Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Hiss Hargaret Mary Walsh and Lt. Edward A. Falloii, ex. '39, of Boston, Mass. 
Hiss Dorothy Mary Connolly and Frederick B. Gavctn, HA . '39, of New York. 
Hiss Patricia I. Enele and Sirt. Jchn C. Cole, '40, Army Air Corps Administrative Officers' Can­didate School, Hiami Beach, Fla. . 
Miss Thelma Irene Schweppe and Ensign Robert 

J. Gray, '42, of Dartmouth College, Hanover. N. H. 
Miss Mary llemcy and Ensign James J. O'Neal. '42, of St. Lonis. 
Marriages 
Hiss Bose Virginia Feltcs and Williim J. HoAamy, ex. *26, were married recently in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Ann Southwick and En­sien Thomas A. Kcecan, U.S.N.R., *30. took place on June 24 in Springfield. 111. 
^:Uiss Nora Roche and Joseph B. Kirby, *31, vere married on Oct. 3. 
The marriage of Hiss Sara Ann Shields and Francis A. McHanas, *31. took place recently in New Orleans. 
Miss Agnes Quinlivan and Lawrence F. Hidkr, '31, \vei*e married on Nov. 5 in Quincy, III. 
The marriage of Miss Sara Ann Shields and Frank A. McHanns, Jr., ex. '32. took place on Sept. 4, in New Orleans. 

The marriage of Miss Eleanore Pilawski and Walter J. FUipek. ex. '34. took place on Oct. 3 in .South Bend. 
Miss Mary Pantages and Ridiard E. Kelly, '34. were married on Oct. 3 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Lt. (j.g.) Francis J. Gaal, U.S.N.R., '36. and Miss Jeanne Dowling took place on Oct. 10 in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Frances Lucille Kinerk and Howard D. Mnrdock, '37. were married on Oct. 31 in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Gertrude Heinz and John 

F. Clifford, '38. took place on Aug. 22 in Chicago. 
Miss Ruth Edna Smith and Harold A. WUIiaas, *38, were married on Oct. 17 in Frederick. Md. 
The marriage of Miss Isabelle Mary HufTel and Ensign Joseph F, Dray, '39. took place on Oct. 24 in Warren, O. 
Miss Helen Morris and WiUiam R. Herrid^ *39. were married on Sept. 5 in Sharon. Wis. 
The marriage of Miss Alice Charlotte Havey and Lt. Charles L. Hantcgani, ex. *39, took place on July 11 in Manchester. N. H. 
Miss Myrene June Teeter and Lt. F. G. Bir­reda. '40. were married on Oct. 31 in Houston. Texas. 
The marriage of Miss Joan Hart and Harold H. Bowler, '40, took place on Oct. 24 in Joliet. HI. 
Miss Kathleen Marie Rogers and Lt. James P. Cleary were married on Sept. 26. 
The marriage of Miss Betty Walsh and Lt. Thaddcos H. Har%-ey, U.S.A.. took place on Aug. 15 at Camp Polk. La. ­
Miss Marcella Higgins and Lt. Clyde L. Hees, U.S.N.R., ex. '40, were married recently in Chi­cago. 
The marriage of Miss Bemice O'Donnell and Corp. Roy W. Pinelli, '40, took place on Oct. 3 in Elyria. O. 
The marriage ot Miss Joan Pabst and Lt. Harley H. Powell, ex. '40, took place on Oct. 29 at Hamilton Field, Calif. 
Miss Elizabeth Carton and Ensign Matthew S. Byrnes, U.S.N.R., '41. were married on July 22 in Fensacola, Fla. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Ruth Kr^er and George W. Ferridc, '41, took place on Oct. 12 in Eggertsville. N, Y. 
Miss Marji Lee SchafTer and Lt. John Gaither, U.S.N.R., *41, were married on Nov. 26 in Evans-. . ville, Ind. 
The marriage of Miss Patricia Anne Thomas and Lt. Francis R. Kennedy, *41, took place re­cently. 
Miss Marion Haney and Tech. Corp. Jerome S. Laskowski, ex. *41, were married on Oct. 3 in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Ridgely and Francis 
J. Lanerman, '41. took place on July 27 in Gary. 
Miss Barbara Ruth Cole and 1st Sgt. Ralph R. Pinelli, '40. were married on Oct. 10 in San Francisco. 
Hiss Barbara Stanford and Patrick J. Qoinn, HJl. *41. were married on Nov. 14 in South Bend. 
The marriage of Hiss Kathleen Jane Dunn and Lt. Laids F. Riexcl. *41. took place on Oct. 16 in Chicago. 
Hiss Ruth E. Cunningham and Ensign Francis 

J. Stclte, Ml, were married on Oct. 10 in Spring­field. 111. 
The marriage of Miss Hary Ann O'Donnell and Ensign Charles E. McNeil!, '42, took place on Nov. 10 at Notre Dame. 
Hiss Kathryn Jane Johnson and Sebastian J. Nowidti, '42. were married on Nov. 7 in Rich­mond, Va. 
The marriage of Miss Ruth Callender and Mat­thew J. 03ricn, ex. *44, took place on Sept. 26 in Naperville, III. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Ridiard J. Donn, '18, are the parents of a son, Edwin Rydell, bom July 24. 
Lt. Col. and Mrs. Raymond B. Brady, '24, are the parents of a daughter, Patricia Anne, born Sept. 29. 
A daughter, Kathleen, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. LawrcBcc V. Keefe, '26, on Sept. 17. 
Hr. and Hrs. James H. Peanon, '26, Flint, Hich., are the parents ot a daughter, bora Nov. 2. 
Hr. and Mrs. Lawnnce J. CoIIiney, '28, are the parents of a son, John Laurence, bom Aug. 7. 
A dau^ter, Judith Anne, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Kkhard R. Baker. '31, on Oct. 2 in Kala­mazoo. 
A son, Patrick Joseph, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Grarce F. CMtelle, '31. on Sept. 1, in Chi­cago. 
A son was born to Hr. and Hrs. William H. H Glufcr. '31. on Oct. 25. 
Lt and Hrs. Walter F. PU'ipp, II.S.N.R., '31. are the parents of a son, James Edward, born Oct. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ckaric* R. Slack. '31. are the patents of a daughter, Eileen Uargaret, born Oct. 26 In Medina, N. Y. 
A son, John H., Ill, was bom to Lt. and Mrs. Jahn BI, Keaney, Jr.. '32, recently. 
Hr. and Hrs. Walter F. Hallen. '32, Chicago, are the parents of a son, Hichael Thomas, bom Get 3. 
Hr. and Hrs. Bart W. O'Hara. '32. are the par­ents of a daughter, H.illey Elizabeth, born Oct. 26 in Denver, Colo. 
A daughter, Hary Sue, was bom to Mr. and •Mrs. J*n-J.-MtNellI,-'33,-on OcL-13. 
A son, Hicheel Henry, was bom to Hr. and Hrs. Henry T. Gannon. '34, on Nov. 3, in Norfolk, Va. 
Mr. and Mrs. William N. HcCormick, "34, ere the parents of a son, Nicholas William, bom Oct. 16. 
Hr. and Hrs. John L. HcNemey. '34, are the p:!rent8 of a son, bom Sept. 12. 
Hr. and Hrs. FtanUyn Hockrciter, '35, are the parents of a daughter, Judith Ann, bom Oct. 30. 
A son, Ihomas Aquinas, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Fnacii A. Dunn. '36, on Oct. 12. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
A daushter. Mary Ann, was bom to Capt. and Mrs. homim H. Haniman, A.A.F., *36, on Oct. 16. in Dayton. 
Hr. and Mrs. Jerome F. Claeys, *37. are the par­ents of a son. bom Oct. 23. in South Bend. 
Hr. and Mrs. Arthar D. Cranin, '37. are the parents of a. daughter, Hary Margaret, born Oct. 13 in Detroit. 
A daughter. Brigid Frances, was bom to Mr. nnd Mrs. Lawrence L. Weisi, '37, on Nov. 10 in Fort Wayne. Ind. 
A sen, William, was bom to Warrant Officer and Mrs. Robert A. DerenKOski. '38. on Sept. 15, in Wilmington. N. G. 
Mr. and Mrs. William P. McCarthy, *38. are the parents of a daughter, Patricia Jean, born Oct. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis X, Sdiaefer, ex. *38. are the parents of a daughter. Kathleen Ann. on Oct. 14. 
A son, l^omas James, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Leonard H. Skocland, '38. on Nov. 6 in Oak Park, 111. 
A son, Michael Patrick, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Richard M. Barkholder, '39, on Sept. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hanrey G. Foster, *39, are the parents of a son, born Sept. 30. in Flushing, L.I., 
N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. John E. Lynch. '39, are the par­ents of a daughter. Mary Ann, born July 22. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William L. Piedmont, '39, on Oct 3 in New Haven. Conn. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Cyril J. TIaKtr, *41. on Sept. 12 in South Bend. 
Deaths 
Brother Marcian, C.S.C., '30. one of the most brilliant young teachers and administrators of the Congregation, died in Austin. Texas, on Nov. 14 after an illness of several months resulting from a blood stream infection. 
Brother Marcian received the habit on Jan. 23, 1922, was professed July 25, 1926. Starting his teaching career at Cathedral High School. Indian­apolis. Brother displayed through nine years there such high qualities that he was chosen as the first principal of Monsignor James Coyle High School, Taunton. Mass.. when it was opened in 1933. Under his leadership the school trebled its enroll­ment and became outstanding in all activities. In 1939 he was transferred to the principalship of Cathedral High School. Indianapolis, where he re­mained until illness forced his retirement last February. 
Brother had received his Master of Arts degree from Columbia University, New York, following his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1930. He was buried in the Community Cemetery at Notre Dame. 
William O. Martin, Atlanta, a Notre Dame stu­dent in 1885-87, died on Oct. 25 after a long ill­ness. Founder and head of the Martin Company Accounts, he was one of the first auditors and accountants in Atlanta and of the small group permitted to practice before the Income Tax Board in Washington. He was instrumental in forming the C.P.A. in Georgia. 
One of the University's most distinguished and most devoted graduates. Dr. Charles P. Neill, Lae­tare Medalist, died in Washington. D. C, on Oct. 2. 
Dr. Neill was a student at Notre Dame in 1883­S8 and in 1892 became an instructor in the Uni­versity, receiving his Master's degree in 189S. He was awarded bis Ph.D. by Johns Hopldns in 1897, and later became Commissioner of Labor under Presidents Ifieodore Roosevelt, Taft and Wilson. In 1908 Notre Dame bestowed upon him an hon­orary LL.D. in recognition of his ontstandlng ac­complishments. 
In later years Dr. Neill was director of the National Catholic Service School, a member of the National Child Labor Committee and of the Boy Scouts of America national committee. He re­ceived the Laetare Hedal in 1922. 
James A. McKee, A.B. '93. LL.B. '95. Versailles. Ky., died on Nov. 12. Surviving him are his mother. 93 years old, and his sister. Mrs. John Gilbert. Lawrenceburg, Ky. Francis M. McKee, '94, and Dr. Emilius M. McKee, '06. both deceased. were brothers. 
Funeral seni'ices were held on Nov. 14 in St. I*eo*s Church, Versailles. 
The Alumni Office has only recently heard of the death on May 14, 1941. in Cedar Rapids, la., of Peter White, LL.B. '95, Williamsburg. la. 
Martin W. Lammers, B.S. '19, Syracuse N. Y.. died on Nov. 10. He was superintendent of agen­cies for the Farmers and Traders Life Insurance Company of Syracuse. 
Engaged in insurance work throughout his working life, Martin began as an agent for the American Central Life Insurance Company in Michigan and was successively manager, agency supervisor, assistant superintendent of agents, field superintendent and manager of the Indianap­olis home office agency for that company. 
In 1933 he joined the Continental American Life Insurance Company in Philadelphia as branch manager and in 1940 took the position which he held at his death. He was a chartered life under­writer. The funeral services were in Jackson. Mich. 
Ralph Adams Gram, of Boston, one of the world's great architects, who died on Sept. 22, received from Notre Dame in 1924 the honorary 
LL.D. degree in recognition of his countless achievements. 
Dr. Edward M. Kennedy, ex. '29. New Hamp­ton, la., died in early October according to brief word received at the University. 
Benjamin J. Cashman. '33, South Bend, died on Oct. 4 after an illness of six weeks." Surviving him are his wife, a son. his parents, and a brother. Charles D. Cashman, *34. of Malartic; Quebec. 
Ben was born in Ontario. Canada, on Jan. 9, 1911, but moved to South Bend 25 years ago. He was employed as an accountant by the Malleable Steel Range Manufacturing Company of South Bend. 
Michael J. Lcding, *33. died in Schenectady. 
N. Y., on Sept. 28 after several months* illness. Mike was only 31 years old, but his life has been full. Let's look at the statistics. 
Mike graduated with a record that stands alone at Notre Dame — valedictorian of his class (96.5 average) w*ith a B.S. in E.E. de­gree, and a varsity football player. He was recipi­ent of many honors and prizes won by feats apart from his scholastic record. Mike was an opportun­ist, too, at Notre Dame—he was a familiar figure serving an early Mass every day in the Basement Ghrpel or the Dillon Hall Chapel. 
When Mike delivered his valedictory address he expressed an ideal: "So we come to the end of our eollese career—to the eotmneoeement of Bfe-God prepared us for oar parents, oar psrmta prepared ns for Notre Dame, Notre Dame has pr»­pared ns for life." That ideal inquired his adiieie­ments in his commmuty life. After leavins Nbtr» Dame he attended the Rensselaer Pobrtertmiral Institute where he obtained a lhater*s desree in Eleetrieal En^nemns while aetinff as line eoMh for the football team. The foUowins year- Mik* jcuned the General Electric Company in Schenec­tady. After a year on Test and two years in the Engineering General Dqiartment, he became an ens^eer in the Indostrial Contnd Department, where he served as an expert on steel strip-^nSI drives. •k 
Hike was extremely active in the KiiiKhts of Coiombas, the Catholic Youth League, and the Notre Dame Chib of the Capital District. He was a third degree KnisAt and a member of ?ariaas eiHnmittees. As president d the alumni chib in 1939-40, he raised the club to a new level of actiinty. 
His most ODtstanding contribution to the Cath­olic community was the formation of the Catho­lic Youth League, which is an organization serv­iniE as m meditim for social and intellectaal activ­ity for yonns Catholic people. It was Hike's fore­aght and exeeptiona] ambition that principally led to its formation and success. The achievements and membership of the organization exceeded the expectations of the clergy and Bishcqp CSbbons. ­Hike and many of his Catholic friends met their Catholic wives at the functions of the Catholic Youth League. 
Hike appredated the value of a good Catholic home, too—he had a lovely wife and a fine son. Hike was a success—and then it was all over. "Notre Dame has prepared us for life; may we now by our lives prepare ourselves for God." Hike did—undoubtedly.—E. W. K. 
Johii P. Winte, B.S. '39. of Gary, Ind., was killed instantly in early November when an auto­mobile in which he was riding was hit in Gary by a train of the South Shore line. One of his three ctnnpanions in the car was also killed. 
Jack's home was in Evanston, 111., m Chieaso suburb, but he resided in Ciary, where he was em­ployed as a fuel en^ee r by the Camegie-Hlinois Steel Cbrporation. 
"nie "Alumnus" extends sincere' sympathy to: Charies S., *94, and Hash C. HitdKll. '95, upon the death of their mother: Janws C Bbaachaa. ex. '11, upon the death of his mother; J. FarrcD Jeluistan, '24. upon the death of his father: Pvt. Jesepli P.» '25, and Tkamuu A. BvAc. *26, upon the death of their father: Lt. Edward F. Ollal­icy, '32, upon the death of his wife; Lt. SteplMn 
H. Keiiay, *27. upon the death of his mother; Lt. Gcerxe J. BenfcM. '37, upon the death of his mother: Bahcrt G. Saffiran, '40. upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1890 
p. E. Baikc. 'M. U I Caap. New Otieuu. La. 
AIuBid Cratiaaton. 1M2-43 

Arthur P. Perley. South B3Rd: James A. Jodie. South Bend: Charles J. Stulibs; Galveston, Texas. 
1890-99 
 J. A. MacNaaara. fT. Ker. Jaaeph's ICaeral 
Saiat Balka. 
Marat Cleawaa. Midk 
Aluu i Cmtiikaten. 1MZ.4S 

John L. Herman. South Bead: Michael A. Don­ahue. Sooth Bend: George L. O'Brien (additional) Sooth Bend; Hon. Frauds A. Bolton. Newarlc. O.: Martin J. Costello. Chicago: Frank K Hering. South Bend (additional). 
WiUiam A. Walsh, '97. was recently elected to the position of City Manager of Yonkers, N. Y., by the Common Council of that city. He is a for­mer mayor oi' Yonkers. 
Jadffc Arthar P. Hndion, of Charleston, W. Va„ was one of innumerable alumni to attend the Michigan same of unhappy memory. For years. Judge Hudson was the only Notre Dame alumnus in Charleston. Now there are 30. But none is more active in Notre Dame affairs than he is. 

Present for the Yankee Stadium fracas of Nov. 7, Father BlacNamara. upheld his record, held jointly with John Necscn, of having seen everj* Army-Notre Dame game. Father returned to the campus for the Michigan and N.W. games and the Centenary obser\'ance on Nov. 26, then took off for Mt. Clemens for the winter. 
IOAA i\ A ^^^^ ^ Proctor, *04, Monger 
I /UU"U 4 BaUdins, Elkhmrt. Ind. 
Alamni Contributors. 1942-43 
Joseph A. Coquillard, South Bend; James Oliver, 

II, South Bend; Francis Jose Gaston, Havana, 
Cuba; Alexis Coqulllard, South Bend; Ladislnus 
A. Kolupa (additional) South Bend; Hon. Ernest 
L. Hammer, New York City; Thomas J. Jones (additional) Indianapolis; Byron V. Kanaley (ad­ditional) Chicago. 
IAAP f)lf% R«^'- Thomas E. Burke, CS.C , 
I TUD'U y '07. Notre Dame, Ind. 
Alamni Contributors, 1942-43 
Bernard S. Fahy, Rome, Ga.; Dr. Leo P. Van 

Rie, Mishawaka; Charles E. Haney, South Bend; 
Ernest M. Morris, South Bend; Rev. Wendell P. 
Corcoran, C.S.C., South Bend; Anton A. Rosen­
berger, Wichita, Kans.; Dr. Edward J. Summers, 
South Bend; Frank X. Cull, Cleveland; Joseph F. 
Donahue, South Bend; Howard W. Edwards, South 
Bend; John Bernard Kanaley, Chicago; J. Wil­
liam Kaufer. South Bend; George J. Oltsch, South 
Bend; Raymond J. (Dike) Scanlon (additional) 
Brooklyn. 
I A I A Reverend M. L. Morimrty, Saint Mary'i I T I U Chnrch, Mentor, O. Alnmni Contributors, 1942-43 Joseph M. Stephenson, South Bend; Leon E. Woodford, Elkhart, Ind. 
I A I I Pi ^ Steers, 1666 First National Bank 
1 7 I I Bldc^ Chicaxo, IIL 
Alnmni Contributors, 1942-43 
Or. James G. Kramer, Akron, O.; Earl E. Reed­

er. South Bend; Charles J. Reuss, Fort Wayne, 
Ind.; William J. Sherry (additional) Tulsa, Okla. 
Charles Sdunidt writes from New Philadelphia, 

0., that his official life has kept him busy and 
that he is now covering eight states as a member 
of the Grand Lodge Activities Committee in the 
Elks. 
I A I A B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St.. Pitts-
I 7 I Z Wrch. Pa. Alaaini Contribntors. 1942-43 John H. Bannon, South Bend; Dr. Frank R. Finnigan. St. Louis; Joseph B. McGlynn (addi­tional) East St. Louis. 111.; Hon. J. Elmer Peak, South Bend. 
 P«rf R- Byrne, University Library. 

m
^ 
i Notre Dame. Ind. Alamni Contribntors, 1942-43 George T. Hanlon (additional) Detroit; Thomas 

F. O'Neil. Miami, Fla. 
1^1 ^ Frank H. Hayes, 642 Third Ave., 
I 7 I ' r Chnla Vista. CaUf. 
AInMni Contribntors, 1942-43 

Herbert C. Hellrung, Alton, III.; Leo J. Hoff­man. South Bend; Dr. lliomas R. Kennedy. St. Louis; William J. Redden (additional) Seymour, Ind. 
I A I IT James E. Sanford, 5236 N. Lakewaad 
I T I O Ave.. Chicago, lU. 
Alnmni Contribntors. 1942-43 
Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C, South Bend; 

Aloysius W. Hosinski, South Bend; James E. San­
ford, Chicago. 
Harold Mnnger is president of the Toledo Chap­ter of the American Institute of Architects. 
Joe Farrcll, here for the Michigan game, is lead­ing a busy life. In addition to being General Elec­tric's district representative, he is vice-president of hs country club at Harrisburg, Pa., and is active in the Catholic College Club there, especially in the- promotion of an outstanding lecture series. Joe has three fine daughters, aged 6, 9, and 12. 
Joe Healy, Chicago, who was in the Navy dur­ing the last war, reported to Lexington. I^., on Nov. 12, as a captain in the Signal Corps. He re­ports that especially now he carries with him the pleasant memories of the happy days spent at Nctre Dame. 
1^1 ^ Grover Miller. €10 Wisconsin Are.* I 7 I O Racine. Wis. Alnmni Contribntors. 1942-43 Russell Downey. South Bend; Alfred F. Fries. Peru. Ind.; Joseph J. Kovacs, South Bend; Charles 
E. Lentz (additional) South Bend; Walter P. Mc-Court. Akron. O.; Grover F. Miller. Racine. Wis.; Michael C. Muchermann. St. Louis. 
From Grove Miller: I sent out a letter with a return postcard to all the members of the class and to date have the following results: Bill Bradbury, Second National Bank Bldg., Robinson, III., still practicing law. Brother Stan­ley, *23, is states atomey. Bill is working hard on draft board and. at age 49, is still single. Has a grand home with his 88-year old mother. Frank Swift, 215 First Ave.. Haddon Heights, 
N. J. Designing electrical machinery for the Na\T Department for combat vessels. 
Lt. Comm. Mai Edward, Lakehurst Naval Air Station. Lakehurst, N. J. Back in service, and wife and son with him at Lakehurst. Second son is flying troop planes as a lieutenant. Daughter is a freshman at Purdue. 
Tom Hayes. 812 Iroquois Drive. S. E.. Grand Rapids, Mich. With Bureau of Internal Revenue for western Michigan. Spends his time chasing tax evaders. Married in 1931. Tom, Jr.. is nine years old. 
Mrs. A. W. Yonnr. 207 Clarke St., Wausau, Wis., tells me Andy Young died on Oct. 28, 1941, leaving a wife and three children. 
Grove Miller married 16 years. His wife, and and he with P^tsy, 14, and Jerry, 8, were at the Michigan game. Associated with Grove in the insurance business is his brother Bemie, who has three boys and one girl. 
Will make further attempts to get replies from all known members of the class so more news can be published in the next issue. 
I O I 7 ^ J. VoU. 206 E. Tntt St., Smith 
I 7 I / Bend, Ind. Alnmni Contributors, 1942-43 John E. Cassidy. Peoria. 111.; John M. Cooney (additional) Notre Dame; Frederick J. Slackford. Cleveland; C. Marcellus Verbiest. Detroit; Bernard 
J. Voll (additional) South Bend; Dr. F. J. O'Don­nell (additional) Alpena, Mich. 
Bill Hyncs, Chicago, is reported to be kept busy raising a family. He now has a four-month-old baby and a youngster 2% years old. 
From Bemie Veil: 
The elections, Nov. 3, again brought the class of *17 into prominence in the political field. Oar classmate. Harry Kelly, the Ottawa lad who -went to the big city of Detroit to make good, is now governor-elect of the State of Michigan. 
Congratulations, and best wishes to you, Harry, fcr a successful administration. 
Haward Fariccr.'of 224 15th Ave., San Francis­co, has been desperately ill with an infection in the blood stream. 
The latest news has been a bit encouraging. an<l we are quite certain Howard will appreciate hear­ing from some of his old friends. 
Ye Correspondent has written a personal letter to each of the classmates in the interest of the University. 
A reply will be greatly appreciated. Please in­clude some personal information regarding your activities, which, in these hectic days, is certain to be of interest to the rest of us. 
I A I A John A. Lcmmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive, 
I 7 I O Escanaha, Mich. 
Alnmni Contribntors. .1942-43 
Francis A. Andrews. Oakland, Calif.; Leo L. 

Cook. South Bend: Richard J. Dunn. Newton, 
Mass.; George A. Schock, South Bend. 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St.. Gary* 

Ind. Paul Fenlon. Notre Dame; Rolland W. Goheen. South Bend; Daniel C. Roberts, Seattle. 
1919 
• A^ALe * B. Ward. 1012 Blade BMr., Loa I 7ZI I Attseles. Calif. Alnmni Contribntors, 1942-43 
John T. Balfe, New York City: Leonard M. Call. New York City; M. Edward Doran; South Bend: Francis S. Farrington, South Bend; Dr. Herbert 
E. Forster. South Bend; J. Paul Loosen (addi­tional) Okarche, Okla.; Edward J. Meehan (ad­ditional) South Bend; Walter R. Miller. Defiance, O.: Eiwyn M. Moore (additional) Sturgis, Mich.; Joseph P. O'Hara. Washington, D. C.; Eugene J. OToole, St. Joseph, Mich.; Dillon J. Patterson. South Bend; Richard B. Swift, Davenport. la.; Dr. Maurice J. Thornton. South Bend; Very Rev. Tliomas J. Tobin. Portland, Ore.; Dr. Francis J. Vurpillat South Bend; Dr. Matthew W. Weis. St. Louis. 
From Lc* Ward: Now it is no longer a military secret. Encene Martin Kennedy is back in the service as a first lieutenant, stationed at Fort Douglas, Utah, in the Personnel Adjutant's office. I had a note from 
J. Lyle Mnsmafcer. whose present address is: 1st Lieut. John li. Musmaker. PMGSC. South Post. Fort Oglethori»e. Ga.. Co. "C." 3rd Refresher School. Also of sufficient vitality to be retained in the service is Col. ^erwood Dixon, also of Ft. Oglethorpe. Ga., according to my advice. 
During the summer I was favored with a visit from Joe McGraw. now of Tulsa. Okla.. but in 1916 and '17 he hailed from Ponca City. He advises that other Oklahoma boys are doing well, men­tioning Tarn Beacon and PanI Loscn. Joe has succeeded his father in the oil and pipe-line busi­ness which is classified as an essential industry, beides having a wife and six children and more on the way. A few of the Walsh Hall-ers got to­gether, including Joe Mullen, Chaiiie Cnsack and Jae Kane, and managed to recount a few of the tales which are still good even though well worn and augmented from recounting over the years. Incidentally, Joe, like a lot of us, would never be recognized. Instead of the sylphlike figure he sported in 1916 and '17, he now looks like a well-fed 225 pounds. 
Like all others in the class I was the recipient of a reminder from John T. Balfe. of New York City, to lack in with $25 at least, or a multiple thereof, in the interests of the endowment drive. 
Harrr Nestcr advises that he has a son at Notre Dame while Johnny Balfe has a flock of rooters for St. Mary's. Incidentally, I had a nice visit from Stanley B. Cofall of Cleveland. Stan's mother lives near Los Angeles, at Riverside, and his son, who is playing football for Purdue, was with him in Los Angeles. 
I A4% I Dan W. Daffy. lC«f Terminal Tower, 
I iL I Ckrelaaa. O. 
Alomni Contribators, 1942-43 
Dr. L. Vincent Gornlla, St. Louts; Capt. Leni­

han L. Lally, Des Moines; Albert McGann, South 
Bend; Callix E. Miller, South Bend; Walter A. 
Rice, South Bend; Victor J. Trippel. Mishawaka. 
I OO O ^" ^ Ashe. 46 West Avenae, HUton. 
Alumni Contribators, 1942-13 
Pierre Champion. Shaker Heights, O.; Mark 

Foote, White Plains, N. Y.; Aaron Huguenard 
(adflitional) South Bend; Cletus E. Lynch (addi* 
tional) Peoria. 111.; Clarence E. Manion, Notre 
Dame; Paul V. Paden. South Bend; Edwin L. 
Sternberg (deceased) Milwaukee; A. Harold Web­
er. South Bend; Daniel H. Young (additional). 
DrcNel Hill, Pa. 
From Kid Ashe: We are most grateful to the individual members of '22 who have sent in their contributions to the Centennial Fund. According to the last pub­lished report, no class from 1919 to 1942 had a larger percentage of contributors to the cam­pnign fund than our own class and it is hoped that the final report will be just as favorable. Your secretary is highly pleased, but not sur­prised at the outcome thus far. Keep them (bonds, checks, cash) rolling to N.D. 
If any one person typifies the real spirit of 

N.D. it is no other than good old Heartiey (Honk) Anderson, '22, who recently was appointed co-coach of the former Chicago Bears football team. We heartily congratulate the old warrior oh his promotion. Hunk, of course, has had his *'ups and downs," but he is decidedly not the type to stay down. In his column "Sportlight," Grantland Rice pays Hunk a remarkable tribute. Recently he said: 
"Pound for pound. Hunk is the toughest phy­sical specimen I've ever known, and that includes Joe Louis and Strangler Lewis. As a guard under Knute Rockne. weighing 170 pounds. Hunk made 240-i}ounders surrender and leave the field. They wanted no part of Hunk, who, in addition to amazing quickness and unusual strength, always has had outstanding fighting spirit. 
"He was the type they might kill—^but never whip." 
Grantland Rice's tribute to Hunk mostly con­cerns his physical prowess and an added state­ment that he (Hunk) has never had a superior as a line coach. We can add that no alumnus of N.D.. and no member of our class is more loyal than Hank Anderson. We rejoice in his deserved promotion, knowing that no additional titles and laurels will change Hunk Anderson who has al­ways carried his honors lightly. 
Frankie Blasias, who is in the civilian army, is located at Wright Field. Dayton. O.. with the Air Service Command Supply Branch. His address is 115 East Maplewood Ave.. Dayton. 
Gene Kennedy and Morgan Sheedy are in tht Army now. Gene is somewhere on the West Coast. Morgan is at the University of Wisconsin, where he is attached to communications training unit of the Air Corps- Our sympathy is extended to Morgan, and his family on the recent death of his father. 
The following completes the publication of the up-to-date class roster from information received in postal returns last spring: Paul Paden—South Bend: 2 children, attorney: B. Vincent Pater— 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hamilton. O., 2 children, senior member of Pater and Pater — attorneys-at-Iaw. Edward Pfciffer — Louisville; 4 children; partner of Pfeiffer and Pfelffer. Insurance business. Paol Pfakl—Chicago; 2 children; with RCA. Chicago. 
Ardo Reidiert—Long Prairie. Minn; one diild; Reichert Improvement Co. (hotel and rentals). Harry Ridiwine—South Bend; attorney. A. A. Scott—Los Angeles; 3 children; judge of Supe­rior Court, Los Angeles County. Janes Shaw— Des Moines. la.; one child: Shaw, McDermott ft Sparks. Inc.. (municipiil bonds). Robsrt Shea— New York City: lawyer with Chadboume. Wallace, Parke & Whiteside. 
Clarence Smith—Bemidji, Minn.; 2 chihlren; general law practice, and county attorney, Bel­trami County. Minn. Eacene Smoser—South Bend; one child; Smoger Lumber Co. Mark Staren— Michigan City. Ind.; 3 children: attorney. Walter Stohldreher—Indianapolis. Ind.: investments. Eail Walsh—New York City; Football coach at Ford­ham University. Harold Weber—South Bend; A, Hnrold Weber. Inc.; real estate and general in­surance. 
I 00 ^ ^*^ ^ Castner, 137 Saath AT*,. N«W 
I #^ 0 Canaan, Conn. 
Alamni Contribators, 1942-43 

Martin H. Brennan. Buffalo, N. Y.; Vincent J. Brown (additional) Syracuse, N. Y.: IJOUIS V. Bruggner. South Bend; Dr. Kevin E. Curran. Kansas City, Mo.; Arthur J. Diedrich, South Bend; Joseph F. Donaldson (additional) Louisville; Wil­fred F. Dwyer. (additional) London, O.; Hon. William T. Iltzgerald, North Vernon, Ind; Efarry 
W. Flannery, Hollywood. Calif.; Edward P. Kreimer. South Bend; F. Leslie Logan, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Lee H. Mattes. South Bend; Francis 
F. McDermott (additional) Caldwell, N. J.; John 
W. Niemiec. South Bend: John C. Norton (addi­tional) Chicago; Joseph W. Nyikos, South Bend: Leo P. Rieder, South Bend: John Melvin Rohr­bach. Crown Foint, Ind. 
J. F. Hayes. tSt 7tii AT*., 1515, 
New Yotk Cltr. 

1924 
Alamni Contribators, 1942-43 

Jerome C. Arnold. St. Louis; D. Patrick Buell. Dallas, Tex.; Capt. Jasper Francis Cava. M.D., New Orleans; John S. Cunningham. Newark. N. J.: Robert C. De Long, South Bend; James R. Meehan, South Bend: Robert M. Rink, Goshen, Ind.: Joseph C Ryan (additional) Notre Dame; Lisut. James P. Swift, New Orleans; Richard F. 
Zilky, South Bend. 
Bill Greevy is heading the NCCS in Edgewood. Md. 
I AO C ^^^^ ^-^••'^- 20^ Braakdalt BMd. I TZ O Toledo, O. AInmni Contributors, 1942-43 
James E. Armstrong. Notre Dame; Edward J-Baker, Fort Wayne. Ind.; William J. Broderick. Notre Dame: Albert M. Brule. White Plains. N. Y.; Joseph P. Burke. Rockaway Beach, N. Y.; Lt. Raymond C. Cunningham, Birmingham, Mich.; Paul J. Dooley. Toledo, O.: John R. Droege, South Bend; Robert C. Dunn. St. Louis. Mo.: Morris 
D. Feldman, South Bend; Albert E. Foos, Nor­walk, O.: Clarence W. Harding (additional) South Bsnd; John P. Hurley (additional) Toledo. O.: J. Willard Jones. Dixon. HI.; Dr. Francis L. Kennedy. St. Louis: George E. Ludwig, Grand Rapids. Mich.; John R. Moran. Denver; Daniel J. O'Neil (additional) Englewood, N. J.; J. Clifford Potts. South Bend: William F. Sheehan, South Bend; William E. Voor, South Bend. 
From John Hurley: 
For the first time in two years I have plenty of news about our class. John R. Horan writes: "At a glance I could see that the class of *25 had to help a Htle or a lot. as the case might be. and I am happy to report that I have made a 
29 

remittancie direct to Jim. Anutraav for the Alamni Association. 
"Yoar letter arrived just as I was on my way to Denver, Colo., where I will again be in re»­dence; (5745 East 6th Ave.) Hie tropics of the lower Golf Coast were too nradi for me. 
"For the records. . . My family consists of a wife (my own-one and only) and three children— two boys and a sirL My draft status is still 3A, bnt feel as thoos^ it may be changed any min­ute and am rather hopeful that it mil be. 
'"nie 'Alumnos* has carried very little news of the class of '25 and as a result has not been very interesting. I am hopeful that your appeal will be well jreeeived and that there will be news of the class in the forthcoming issue of the 'Alum­nus'.'* 
It was good hearing from you. John, and I hope the boys keep sending in notes as they have during the past few weeks and thus stir up more '25 interest. 
A most interesting and thoughtful letter from 
H. M. Eaten concerning h b son WiAwr follows: "My son. WUtar S. Eatan, was a member of the class of 1925 at good old Notre Dame. After leaving Notre Dame, he coached for a time, finished his doctor of medidne coarse at Ne­braska University. Practiced for a year or so. entered the Army and was stationed at Fort Crook for nearly two years. He was then trans­ferred to somewhere in Australia where he is 
^ now serving as a captain in the Medical Corps. His wife and five children live at Plattsmooth. Nebr. 
"We hear from him quite often, and, like a good soldier that he is. he makes no com­plaints. Also we know that he would like to be back in the United States with his family. There is no doubt hut what he finds it is al­most as strenuous over there as he found it when he played on the football team under Knnte 
"With best wishes for every member of. the class of 1925 and for the continuation of the ex­cellent work done by Notre Dame alumni." 
Thanks, Mr. Eaton, I'm sure the boys are happy and proud to hear about Wilbur. Yon can get Wilbur's address from Mr. H. M. Eaton, suiwrintendent. Public Instruction, Omaha. Ndir., and I'm sure he would be happy to hear from his friends. 
Here's a'quickie from Al Faaa. "Just a hur­ried note with my bond, and I do mean hurried, because the Army gets me the day after to­morrow. 
"I closed my business July 1, and had been at Trojan Powder since then. I liked my job very much, but Uncle Sam said he wanted me, I couldn't enlist because of my eyes. Others from Norwalk at Trojan are Neil Ehcrt and Taat BrewB." 
Thanks and good luck, Al, and we will be glad to hear from you after you get_ used to those long mardies in the Army. 
Fanl HartMan writes: "I am sorry that I was unable to see yon while in Toledo. Early the next morning I left for South Bend to see the Georgia Tech game and afterward I was in De­troit for a few days, then I returned to my home in Evansville. 
"I am sony that my contribution to the Uni­versity is delinquent but I feel that it is surely better late than never. I am enclosing the pledge card and I hope to be able to send four $25 War Bonds to you, registered in the name of Bar. Hash CDMUWII, C,S.C., before the end of this year. 
"I wish to thank you for your interest in this .program and for yoar loyal devotion to the class of '25." 
Thanks, Paul. Ben Kesting passes on the fol­lowing information on Paul: He is vice-president of the Imperial Oil & Gas Products Co. of Pitts-Evansville. Ind. 
Steve Cor^jr of the Simoniz Co.. Chicago, just made the deadline for the next issue of the "Alumnus." 
"I was glad to get your letter of Sept. 17 in regard to Notre Dame and I apologize for the delay in acknowledging same. However, I have been out of the city practically all the time since your letter arrived. 
"It looks to me as though our class is falling down seriously on the request of SlOO each, and in fact we are only averaging up to Sept. 15 about $10 per contributor. This is'probably due in part to the chaotic conditions of many manufacturers today who are not directly or in­directly engaged in the war effort. I owe a very distinct obligation to Notre Dame and also to Father O'Donnell, and, therefore. I am or­dering a $100 bond today and will send it on to the Alumni Association as soon as the bond is delivered. 
"I saw John Kennelly and he is now working for the All-State Insurance Company here in Chicago, and has two lovely boys. God has been good to this branch of the Corboy family be­cause we have a boy and a girl, and I am happy to report that both are enjoying the best of health." 
You are right. Steve—the *25er.s should be right on top. so sign up, fellows, and mail your bonds to Father HaKfa O'Donnell* CS. C Many thanks to those members of our class who have already contributed and to the above for these fine letters. 

Dick Mnllaney is a top man with the Whitney Chain and Hfg. Co. in Hartford, Conn. John Tmynor, deputy superintendent of insurance of the state of New York for seven years, has been elected executive vice-president and a director of the Lawyers Title Corporation of New York. He will act as chief administrative officer of the company in the absence of the president. 
Pvt. Joe Barke is in training at Camp Robliisun, Little Rock, Ark. Jack Kane, Youngstown, O., has been appointed by Federal District Attorney Don Miller as assistant U. S. attorney for the northern district of Ohio, succeeding Paul Flem­ing, '26. formerly of Youngstown. who went to New York to become counsel to the alien propsr­ty custodian. Jack had been assistant county* pros­ecutor since 1936. 
Jack has six times been president of the Notre Dame Club of Youngstown and is at present Jhe club's chairman of activities and captain of thw alumni bowling team which rolls in two of the city's leagues. He is a past grand knight of the 
K. of C. and a trustee of the Chesterton Club, an organization of Catholic men who are college graduates. 
I f%^JL Juan A. Ronan, 127 N. DearlKim St., ITZO cuowo. m. Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 Maurice Bailie. South Bend; Richard J. Collins. Jr., Blue Mountain Lake. N. Y.; Edward V. Crowe. Detroit; William R. Dooley. Notre Dame: Thomas 
E. Ferguson. Hartford, Conn.; "Vincent L. Goulet, Chicago; Irving A. Hurwich, Mishawaka; Peter 
M. La Cava, Mishawaka; J. H. B. McCarthy. South Bend; Arthur F. Scheer, South Bend; Thomas W. Sheridan. Bergenfield, N. J.; Fred 
M. Switzer, Jr.. St. Louis; John O. Touhy, Oak Park. 111.; Bernard Kernan Wingerter. South Bend. 
Aastin Hall is secretary of the Tennessee Chap­ter of the American Institute of Architects. Tom Ferrnson of Hartford attended the Army Rally 
•at New York, as did Leo Cantwell who was set 
for the Navy. Jim Dwyer was there too, hand­somer than e\*er. 
Note: See "Additional Military Men." this issue, for an imposing list of '26 men who have entered military service. 
Lieut. Comm. Frank Bon, Washington, D. C . was inside one of the innumerable Navy uniforms at the Army game. And scouts reported that Tom Sheridan was all ready to join the military set. Wingerter and Dooley of South Bend returned as far as Harrisburg with Cap Hayes who was tem­porarily assigned to a camp near there. Hayes said that Jim SUck (Navy) and Mac McEUirott (Army) are "in." 
Ray Keiser is with the AP in New York and was 'round and about on the Army week-end so they say. Dmn O'Neill, too, and Papa L. V. Keefe. who. when last seen was rushing home (a half hour late) to the 2 o'clock feeding. Tommy Far­rell was worrying about oil rationing (from the dealer side) but managed to give the k.o. to a hefty dinner Saturday night. 
Dr, Bert CongUin was up from St. Louis for one cf the home games. . . . Jay Masenidi, ad­vertising expert with the South Bend Lathe, was one of the main props in the recent fund cam­paign of the St. Joe Valley Club. . . . Joe Navarre, after many years attomeying in Monroe, Mich., has transferred to a very attractive legal spot in nearby Jackson, in the City National Bank Build­ing. . . . Art Scheer was re-elected prosecuting at­torney of St. Joseph County (South Bend). • 
I AO 7 Joseph M. BoUnd, SUtlon WSBT. Soath 
I TZ / Bend, Ind. 
Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 
Edwin A. (Ted) Berkery (additional) New York 

City; Sebastian T. Berner, South Bend; Joseph 
M. Boland, South Bend; Paul M. Butler, South Bend: Lieut. William J. Corbett. Jr. (additional) Glencoe. III.; Walter C. Houghton, Chatham, N. J.; Herbert E. Jones, Notre Dame; Carl F. Kemps. South Bend; Eugene C. Knoblock, South Bend; Alden E. Lenhard, Mishawaka; Thomas P. Mad­den (additional) Notre Dame; William H. Mc­Cullough, South Bend; Francis T, McCurrie, Chi­cago ; E. R. McEndarfer. South Bend; Thomas A. McKiernan, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Francis E, Moran. Notre Dame. 
John J. Nyikos. Syracuse. N. Y.; J. Frank Oehl­hoffen. South Bend; J. Kenneth Qualley, South Band; Andrew T. Smithberger. Notre Dame. 
From Joe Boland: You'd think that here in South Bend, the news would pour in. But for the paucity of informa­tion in this column—aside from the swell letter Joe Reedj* sent—we have no explanation. Maybe it's because you're busy, with w*hat I wouldn't know; military secrets in our ranks need never show. But secrecy and privacy are crystal-clear compared to the absolute seclusion in which your class affairs are shared- Now, ti-pewriters are needed on destroyers, cruisers and big-ships; but your ration-card still offers pen and ink—used from the hips. And if the latter haven't spread too 
much from big and paying deals, just plank them in the proper place; in short, get off your heels. If WSBT is hard to write, you've always got 
N.D. And any college graduate should be able to spell Alumni Secretary. . . i; the meter broke 'way up the page, you know these war-time prod­ucts—they're never what they seem to be. they're just like you're billet-doux. 
Joe Reedy's report—(censored by Ye Scriv.): Joe is now in the Army Air Force, stationed at Spokane, Wash. Just address him as Capt. Joseph 
J. Reedy. Assistant Depot Supply Officer, Spo­kane, Wash., and it will reach the Silver Fox. 
Among other gems of information, he says the Army pronounces it "deep'-oh" as in hep. or pep —^you learn something every month in this column, don't you? 
Joe's job is to "Keep *Em Flying," and that his outfit have been doing—and well. Tokio's visitors prepared, months in advance, at his diggings—as have many other Army fliers. 
In civilian life, a flier himself, Joe Reedy claims he's the only pilot who ever joined the Air Corps to stop flying. He left a "hot" Mono-coupe behind him at Joliet. III., which is remind* ing him of its presence by monthly hangar bills. 
His captaincy came on his birthday—which is pretty good timing for Uncle Sam. 
And from Reedy, we get word of Chet Mc Donald, '27. 14 Watson St.. Marblehead. Mass. Chet reported to Joe by picture and script that he has a fine 2-year-old son. And through Chet came word. also, that John McManmon, *28. (that other great tackle) has been commissioned in the Navy as a lieutenant, senior grade; Reedy's com­ment on this was tjrpically Army—it went like this: "Sorry to hear that: John had enough stuff for the 'Army!' " 
And that's the news to this moment—badly chopped up, we must admit—but put it down to a supersensitivity of censorship, born of radio. 
Adios. m'friends: send a card this way soon. won't you 7 
Don WiUcins, formerly a captain in the Air Corps, is now a major, and still stationed at Wright Field. Dayton. O. 
I AO O ^*"' ^' Bnddey, 4481 BfacArthnr Blvd.. I T^ O Wadtinrton. D. C. Alumni Contributors, 1942-41 
James P. Canny. Lakewood. O.; Francis J. Donovan. Muskegon, Mich.; August M. Grams. La Crosse. Wis.; Jacob H. Gilbert. South Bend; Joseph S. Morrissey. Cincinnati; RonaM T. Rich. Notre Dame; John E. Skelly. South Bend. 
Jim Ingram is president of the Kentucky Associ­ation of Architects. 
From Loa Buckley: I had a good session recently with two '28 men who are located in Washington. Tom Mahon and Didc Wcppner. Tom mentioned that while he was stationed in Boston with the Navy, he saw Ed Brennan. Ed is married and has a family and lives in Walpole. Mass. Tom also said he used to see Don Rao once in a while. Don is married and living in his home town in Michigan. Dick Wepp­ner is here with the War Production Board and expects to have his wife and three children join him just as soon as he finds a house in Washing­ton. Dick mentioned that Chet Rice is located in Cleveland now with O.P.A. Thanks to the fine cooperation of several guest writers this month, I am able to give you some exclusive news of '28 men. Let's start off with Joe DeBott who reports from 171 W. North St.. . Geneva. N. Y., as follows: "As soon as I rec&ived your request to assist you in writing the 1928 column for the next issue of the 'Alumnus.' I immediately wrote to several of the.fellows with whom I have not been in con­tact for several years. I have received two replies so far to my letters and they are both from for­mer roommates of mine at Notre Dame. Swede Sckroeder and Ed Dean. From Swede who says that his news is ancient, meager and no doubt unreliable: 'Dinny Daly was trying to get in the Navy at last reports. Was practicing law in St. Paul, was married, but as far as I know was not as yet walking the floor nights. Jack Doyle is still selling clothes to Minneapolis' better dressed men. It's funny about Jack—have tried several years to see him, but he is always out to lunch. John Padden. ex. '28. of Crookston, Minn., has just been nominated for Congress on the Republican ticket at the primary election—after a hard battle and against a lot of hard shell oldtimers. He is going great in the practice of law. Art SalUvan, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
*27. continues to represent his insurance company as their Minnesota adjuster and trouble shooter. Art has several children. Gladstone McDermott is in Sault Ste. Marie, handling several defense con­tracts for his firm. I have seen him a few times. He has been up here since April, hates the place, as we all do, but is up to his ears in work.' 
"Regarding the Swede himself, here is a con­densed version on his activities. Swede has been married for several years, has four children—two boys and two girls; has forsaken the practice of law for the time being and is associated with the Strom Construction Co., and at the present is located in Raco, Mich. Swede would like to hear from Charlie Shelansky.*' 
"From Ed Dean: 'I was married in '34 and at present have two boys, aged 6 and 4. We have a home in Crafton, a suburb of Pittsburgh. I have been in the by-product coke and chemical game for the last 12 years. I worked at one plant in Pittsburgh for 10 years and for the past two years have traveled considerable with the Koppers Company, in the capacity of an operating engineer. I just recently returned from Baltimore and prior to that put plants into operation at Birmingham, Ala., New Haven. Conn., and at Bethlehem, Fh. "\Ve have just completed a new job for the Pitts­burgh Steel Company at Monessen. Pa. I have accepted the job of general plant foreman at this plant. In all probability, I will stay here as it has been a little rough on my family being away from home a great deal. My brother, Tony, *27. is an engineer with the Republic Steel in Cleveland.' 
"Ed regrets that he has no information to send 
regarding any members of the class. Joe Geraghty 
did such a swell job of reporting on the members 
of the class in this section earlier in the year that 
it would be old news now. However, I did see 
Tom Canty a couple of months in Batavia where 
he is district manager for the John Hancock Life 
Insurance Company. Tom is married and has one 
daughter about five years old. I understand that 
Joe Haney, who has been practicing law in New­
ark, N. Y., for the past several years, has en­
listed in one of the armed services.—which one I 
am not aware. Another former member of our 
class who spent one year at Notre Dame, Joe 
Spillane, also a lawyer, has enlisted in the Coast 
Guard and is in service. Joe has been practicing 
law here in Geneva for the past several years, 
having been graduated from Albany Law School." 
Capt. Sam Dunne reports from the Ofiice of the Post Commander, Fort Mason, Calif. I know you will join with me in expressing sympathy to Sam on reading of the death of his wife. You will be shocked as I was, I am sure, when you read the report of the death of Ed Freitas. Sam writes as follows: 
"Your correspondent reported for active duty at this station in July and was assigned to the staff of the Post Commander. Fort Mason is offi­cially known as the San Francisco Port of Em­barkation and I shall consider it a favor to assist any Notre Dame men who may come through this port. 
"Being a sentimental Celt, all Irishmen are sentimentalists I guess, I found it a bit difficult to close my desk at the University of Santa Clara after 10 years as athletic manager, stow my double-breasted away in mothballs and don the olive drab of the Army. After Pearl Harbor, 50­yard line seats, fire wagon basketball and two-base hits didn't seem very important, so as a result I was very happy when the Man with the "Whiskers called me. 
"On the personal side, Lou, I lost my darling wife in 1940 when complications set in after an operation. From the time my wife passed away until T was called by Mr. Whiskers, I resided with my brother Bert, (class of '26) at San Carlos, Calif. 
"I don't see any '28ers here on the edge of the Pacific but I manage to keep up on Notre Dame 
OUVER F . SCHELL, '29 

Ollie Schell, accountant and attorney, was graduated fron* recruit training at Great Lakes as honor scan of his com­pany of 130 men. He was selected to attend a Navy Service School. 
gossip through Notre Damers of other yea rs. Back Shaw, Santa Clara's Silver Fox. who in my opinion is the closest thing to Rockne Notre Dame has produced, keeps me informed, and from time to time I see Jim Phelan, now at St. Mary's, and Marchie Schwartz, the head coach at Stanford. 
"My pal and roommate. Jim Harlbart. who played end and who was the best tackier I have ever seen, is an executive in a Detroit department store. Another psl and dlassmate, Eddi: Frcltas, of San Rafael. Calif., passed away last year and we truly miss him. Lt. Clarence J. Yaeger. for­merly of Toledo, is one of our chaplains and will be remembered as having attended Notre Dame in '26. He is doing a fine job and Notre Dame and Bishop John O'Hara has every right to be proud of him." 
Now we shift to the Mid-West area with the following from A! Davis, who writes from 16760 Pierson. Detroit: 
"First I want to explain to Lcoie Carr that his request a few months ago was not intentionally ignored. It was just a case of 'putting off* and *not getting arount to it* until it was too late. 
'*Joe Simonin is with the Detroit Edison Com­pany where he has been holding out since gradu­ation. His family consists of two girls and a boy. Ike Ludwig has been in Detroit for the past few years. He and his two partners own Auto­motive Rubber, Inc. Which means that Ike's du­ties range from chief engineer through master mechanic to sales. Vince Stace recently left the purchasing section of Detroit Edison to accept a commission in the Army. The Irst I heard he was assigned to one of the staffs in Washington. 
"I have not seen Art Si*eber!e but I understand that he is with Albert Kahn. Architects, helping to design and build war plants around the coun­try. Eamie Reader is plant engineer at the main Detroit Edison generating station at Trenton. Mich. As for myself, I am married, have three girls and am with General Motors Corporation as assistant general manager of the Diesel Division here in Detroit." 
Harvey D::Iy writes from a new address. 35-69, 165 S. Street. Flushing, L.I., N. Y., as follows: 
*^]|ie SdMli enlisted in the Navy three weeks ago and is now at the Great Lakes Naval 'Plain­ing Station—Company 964. 
**Dr. Dan Bradley is surrenderin^r his lucrative Amityville, LJ., practice to enter the Army Med­ical Corps. Dr. Jaha (Ben) Franklin is reported to be practicing somewhere on I/ong Island. Ji ^ Harlbvrt is a Gimbel Brotliers executive—married —and father of two children. Hemic Garher is with Cbrbiii Associates. He recently moved to his new home—Cedar Downs, Stanwood. Ht. ffisco, 
N. Y. 
"Bab Hawlt m has transferred his business tal­ents to the purchasing department of F^an-Ameri­can Airways. New York City. Bill Kelly is teaching math and physical training at Seward Park High School. New York City. Jchn Antas, the Columbia University Prof, recently became the father of a St. Mary's candidate—class of '60. Ditto Larry CaBiiicy. 
"JadE LaTcUe has become a vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of New York. He has been bitten by the golf bug. Tim Tooaiey has tried to enlist in all branches of the armed services but without' success. He is now an air-raid warden —first class—no less. I have been ^vith the claims department of the Equitable Life for the past six years. I'm still single but might not be in that state very long after the Michigan'game.'* 
Dr. Bfarou FancU gives us the following from Clarksburg, W. Va.: 
"Much to my personal regret, due to the fact that I am isolated down here in the hills of West Virginia and Notre Dame men are scarce, I have 
. not seen or heard from any of my classmates for several years. In the p^st eight yesrs I have seen only one classmate and that is Frank Heffarty. As you reported in the column, he has been in the Army for the past 18 months. In going on active duty, he gave up a very splendid medical practice which he had developed in Pittsburgh. As you also reported previously, in 1932 I interned at Mercy in Pittsburgh, with Frank, Didt Wdis and Sclo­mon. The three of xis had a grand and glorious year. 
"The only news I can give you, thus, is about myself which you also requested. I would much rather be giving you news of the other fellows. T have been practicing Pediatrics here in the home town since 1936. During that time I have ac­quired two sons, now aged 5 and 3.- Recently I have applied for a commission in the Navy Med­ical Corps and within the next month or two expect to be on active duty. By belonging to the Glee Club, I saw the whole country; so now by joining the Navy I shall try to see the world." 
I am sure that the '28 men join with me in thanking Sam Danne, Joe DeBott, Al Davis, Har­vey Daly and Doc Fanrell and those who collab­orated with them for a fine column. You can show this appreciation by following their example when you are called upon to make your contribution to the column. 
I AO A Capt. Jesepk P. HcNamara. 236 E. 15th I tMml St., Indianapolis, Ind. Alaatni Contribotors, 1942-43 Joseph E. Baum. Battle Creek, Mich.; George 
N. Beamer. South Bend: Robert J. Brennan, Pittsfie!d, Mass.: Paul H. Brokhage, Vinccnnes, Ind.: Francis J. Gushing, Oakland, Calif.; Rey­nold A- Deniger (additional) Beaver Dam. Wis-; Thomas M. Farrell. Niles, Mich.: WilHard C. Fortier, South Bend; Joseph G. Friel. New York City; Lieut. Joseph P. Hartnett, Jr., Pelham, N. Y.; Paul D. Holahan, Lakewood, O.; Francis Jones (additional) South Bend; James E. Keat­ing (additional) South Bend; Lieut. Harley L. McDevitt, Chevy Chase. Md.; C. L. Micinski. South Bend; John G. Holloy. Bridgeport, Conn.; Basil Rausch. New York Qitfi John Francis Reilly, Houston; Lieut. Robert J. Schulze, Chica­go: Lawrence F. Stander, Notre Dame. 
Didc Zimmerty is listed by American Institute 
of Architects as secretary of the Indiana Society 
of Architects. 
John Hinkel, now a major, -writes that he is 
stationed at Camp Ritchie, Md., following a brief 
tour of foreign service. John, who is second vice-

president of the Washington Club, reports that he 
entered the main gate of the camp one evening 
and bumi>ed into Bill Brown, first vice-president 

of the club. 
1930 
Alomni Contributors, 1942-43 
Richard P. Cogan, Mishawaka; John F. Deg­

nan. South Bend; John J. Elder (additional) Chi­
c2go; Hugh A. Gallagher, Mt. Lebanon, Pa.; Rev. 
John J. Hill, Monterey Park, Calif.: Cesare S. 
Janesheski, South Bend; Marshall F. Kizer, Ply­
mouth. Ind.; Walter M. Lanford. Notre Dame; 
Edward Y. Lean, South Bend; Gerald E. McKay, 
Minneapolis; Francis M. Messick, South Bend; 
Thomas G. Murphy. Franklin. Pa.; Edgar B. 
Smith, South Bend; H. Louis Stettler, Wooster. 
O.; Malcolm E. Trombley. Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
Dick Donoclue, now a lieutenant in the Na\*>*. 

has had to resign as class secretary-. Any nomina­
tions for the job? Thanks to Dick for an all-out 
job for the class. 
Joe Abbott, assistant personnel director of the International Telephone and Radio Manufacturing Corporation, East Newark, N. J., visited the cam­pus Oct. 9 to inter\'iew engineering students for positions in that company. He remained for the Stanfoi-d game. 
I A O I John Berran, 838 E. Colfax Ave., Sonth I 7 ^ I Bend. Ind. Alnmni Contribotors, 1942-43 Lawrence H. Baldinger. Notre Dame; Dr. James 
A. Biggins. Sharps\'ille, Fa.; William B. Chaw-go, Aurora, III.: Jerome J. Crowley. Jr., (addi­tional) South Bend: Daniel J. Egan. Chicago; Clai-ence H. Futter, Mishawaka: Dr. Thaddeus C. Goraczewski, South Bend; Alfred C. Grisanti, Cleveland; Harry E. Kennedy. Jersey Shore, Pa.; Elton P. Lavenberg, South Bend: Daniel C. Len­cioni. Kenosha. Wis.; Donald F. MacDonald. Flint, Mich.; Valentine H. Martin. New Rochelle. N, Y.: Royal T. Mastain. South Bend; William C. Mc­Carthy, Kansas City. Mo.; John E. Mdntyre. South Bend; Ward F. O'Connor, Bayonne, N. J.; Roland J. Poulin, South Bend; Lieut. John C. Sul­livan, Auburn, N. Y.; Wilbert L. Terre, Chicago Heights, in. ; William B. Webster, South Bend. 
From John Bergan: The Michigan game proved to be the largest roundup of 3 A's in the football season. Among those present were, Eddie Ryan, dynamic rail weld company executive; AI Stcpan, chemical company sales manager; Lou 0*Shca, pharma­ceutical house executive; Tom Monahan, agricul­turist : Ed Sullivan, oil company engineer; Clar­ence Fotter, Mishawaka merchant; Ed Murray. University student employment manager: Lieut. Joe Hogfaes. U.SJ\... air corps doctor; Joe Dccb. Michigan district attorney; Jim Keating, Northern Indiana district attorney; Deon Sutton. Civilian air corps auditor: Chief Petty Officer Frank Butorac, Na\-j' supply officer; Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., University professor; Jerrj' Crowlej-. paint company executive; Bob Xeyland, arms manufac­turer's agent; and Dr. Ed Draves, Detroit phy­sician. Reports have been confirmed that George Mk has recently returned from Wake Island and that he is now located in Washington. Chief Frank Batonic, the amiable supply officer at the Notre Dame Midshipman School, has applied for his com­mission and will soon leave for sea dutj*. It's a son, Edward, Jr., in the Ed Sullivan homestead in Mattoon. 111. Congratulations also to Frank Noll on being elected city clerk of Indianapolis, and to Dr. Thad Goraszewild. South Bend, on his re­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
election as coroner of St, Joe County. The trend' of politics in the Hoosier state deprived Tom Can­non of being re-elected prosecutor of Delaware county. Indiana. Tom, during his tenure in otfice, made an en^nable record in law enforcement and was highly regarded as one of the outstanding young prosecutors. 
Seymour Gross was elected president of the Chicago Associated Coal Yard Owners. Max Pas­coff and himself are proprietors of the Belmont Material & Coal Company, one of the largest yards on the north side of Chicago. John "Sarge** Raleigh is now an executive of a Michigan wire company and was among those present at the Michigan game. Among new recruits of the United States Army are, AI Grisanti. Matt Gar­rigan and Don MacDonald. We have written a number of the boys at other camps for news about themselves, but the returns thus far have been quite frugal. We promise that the entire next issue will be a military column and reports will be filed from many of the boys throughout the nation. 
Possibly the best letter from any man in service receive<I thus far was the one from Jack Sannders. the able naval lieutenant, so I hope that his mes­sage hit home and that by the next issue the top of this column will contain so many names that thero will not be enough space left for this scriv­ener. God luck to all and a sincere wish for a happy holiday season. 
John Sullivan is now stationed at Camp Wheel­er. Ga. Ellis Blomstrom writes that Phil Dafly entered St. Edward's Seminary, Kenwood. Wash., in September, after receiving his LL.B. from Har­vard in May. Ellis gets a blow in "Pacific Motor Boat," June issue, for his part in preparing printed information regarding fishing in the Puget Sound area. Ellis is now a yeoman to the execu­tive officer of the R.O.T.S. and the Naval Train­ing Schools at the Puget Sound Navy Yard. Bremerton, Wash. 
I OO O ^** -'""'^ ^* Collins. 604 Broad Blvd., 
I #0 ^ Dayton. O. 
Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 

Capt. Henry B. Asman. Tampa, Fla.; John J-Bognar. South Bend; Lieut. Andrew G. Botti. At­lanta ; Alvin S. Culver, Chicago; Thomas A. Galligan, Brcokl>*n; George F. Hennion, Notre Dame; Thomas L. Hickey, South Bend; Gerald R. Hodges, South Bend; Edward J. Kelly, Kew Gar­dens, N. Y.; Harry F. Kilburger. Lani^aster. O.; Thomas J. Magee. Philadelphia; Dominick Nepoli­tano, Notre Dame; Bartholomew W. O'Hara, Denver; Joseph S. Petritz, Notre Dame; William 
T. Slader, AVilliston Park. N. Y.: Joseph B. Stebinger. South Bend; Gerald C. Theisen. Detroit. 
Gerry Conway sends an early Christmas card in French from his unit overseas in the Pacific. 
Remi Renier wrote that he was attending offi­cers candidate school at Fort Belvoir, Va., and hoped to graduate on Nov. 25, as a second lieu­tenant in the Engineers Corps. 
On his way to Noroton Heights, Conn., for training in naval communications (as a lieuten­ant). Jint Collins forwarded this letter from Vince O'Neil, Hj-annis, Mass.: 
"I've just finished reading the October issue of the 'Alumnus,* with particular reference to your class column, and also the list of Army personnel. In my neck of the woods here one runs across a Notre Dame man about as often as you find a $5.00 gold piece, and this is unusual with a large Army camp nearby. I didn't find that the recent Army list included any men at Camp Edwards. 15 miles from here, but I do wish that you'd stick a brief notice in your next column that if any of our class, or any other N.D. men are there, or others are in the section here, I'd be pleased to do anything possible to make their stay more pleasant, f or to have them call at any time [58 Winter St]. 
Most of the boys one brings home welcome the change, and well—several ea ^ chairs aren't work­ing at present. 
"You have the home address above, and during business hours I am at present office manager for the local rationing board—to which I have been loaned for the duration by the bank that has kept me from stan-ing for the past few years. The above offer of cooperation, by the way, doesn't include tires and gasoline. 
"Sorry I cannot give out with news of indi­viduals with an N.D. past but no such people live anywhere near me. and past correspondence of our class have long since laid down the quill." 
Jim's only other class note concerned Vince Cavanaagh, now with the FBI and stationed in Milwaukee. 
1933 Tigfae Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave., Chicago. in. 
Alfred J. Artz, South Bend; Benjamin J. Cash-man (deceased) South Band; Eugene L. Cava­natigh. Oil City, Pa.; Louis R. Chreist. Jr., South Bend; John D. Fitzpatrick (additional) South Bend; Robert J. Fitzsimmons, South Bend; Rev. Francis E. Gartland, C.S.C.. Indianapolis; Loren Hess, Mishawaka; John B. Kieley, Plainfield, N. J.: Zigmund H. Kitkowski, South Bend; John H. McNamara. South Bend; Emerit E. Moore, South Bend; Edward A. Olczak, South Bend; Edward D. Raddatz, Spokane, Wash.; Thomas Webb Sexton, Wilmette, III.; Andrew (Drew) J. Shiebler, Brooklyn; Edward W. Stanton. South Bend; Er­nest A. Szekely, South Bend; Benjamin H. Wein­stein. South Bend; Bernard F. Witucki, South Bend. 
Charles Mcdland. Logansport, Ind., is now a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy, and is stationed at the Naval Training Station at Princeton as a navigation instructor and as such a member of the Princeton faculty. Don Garrity. Chicago, is a gunnery officer at sea on a merchant ship which left Boston a few weeks ego. 
It is noted with prominence in the "Sacramento Air Depot News" that Charles O'Connor "painter of famous persons," has been assigned as an instructor in the new camouflage school at Mc­Clelland Field, Calif. 
Says the "News" of Charlie: " After graduat­ing from college, he spent one year in the artist colony of New Mexico, Taos, studying with Bert Phillips, Walter Ufer and the Bistram school of art- He also studied with Major Oliver Kemp, post World War I artist. 
"Among his portraits of well known people are those of Frances Perkins, secretary of labor; and Murray D, Van Waggoner, governor of Michigan. His mural, depicting the death of Father Mar­quette on the shores of Lake Michigan, was used in the offices of Frank Murphy, then governor of Michigan. Besides conducting his own studios in Lansing and a number of other eastern cities, he was detailed to do a series of murals on the progress of transportation for the Michigan state highway department." 
First Lt. Dave Plotkin. South Bend, has been as­signed to the Oklahoma City Air Depot as a den­tist at the station hospital. From Tighe Woods: 
How about a Bond for Bill??? Who is Bill? Bill or Bob or Mike or Guisscppi is the little guy. the one you'll be buying those tiny boxing gloves for. or that little electric train this Christmas. He is also the little wretch who uses your Gillette to sharpen his pencils with, but whom some day you expect to see follow you to Carroll, or Brownson or Howard. You have great plans for his future, but you also expect the University to be able to offer him the best in teachers, equipment, food and shelter at a cost to you that is ridiculously low in comparison even to folly endowed imiversities. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Keeping a pisnt like Notre Dame up to your standards takes plenty of the fresh sreen, my friends of the era when white shoes were worn in the summer time, and that brings me to the point about Bill and Bonds and Notre Dame. Some time soon after you read this you are goine: to get a letter from me asking you to do something as a Class for your University, and how you can he!p the War, Notre Dame, your Bill and your 
. income tax all combined. Enough for now. 
If it's news you're looking for. I can't help you very much. That Christmas card idea of last year worked pretty well. How about doing it again this year? Just jot down some news about yourself or somebody else in the class on the back of your Christmas card and send it along. 
Jim Danchy is back in Chicago. He is working for the Corn Products Corporation in their chem­ical research department. He is living out in Riv­erside, 111., and buying a house. (Lay off, you in­surance wolves!) 
Old Man Leo Hodel has disappeared from his old haunts. He's not in Iceland or the Solomons, but a certain baby daughter wears the stiver bars around the Hodel house, and keeps the Sage of the South Bend Inn under wraps. I wouldn't be surprised to hear that he and Tom Mahaffey are carrying on a heated debate through the mails on the value of pablum over strained liver soup as baby body builders. 
Joe McCabe is now lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy and is stationed in Washington. D.C., but I don't know his street address as yet. He will continue to do picture work as he has been doing for the "Chicago Times." If you begin to sea some Na\'y releases with ccptions as pungent and witty as a New Yorker cartoon you can probably figure that Joe is the man behind the man with the camera. 
Cross another bachelor off the careless and fancy free list of lonesome roaders of the class of 1933. Joe D. Clark, of Foughkeepsie, N. Y.. was married to Eleanor Marie Uniacke of the same city, in April. The bride's brother. Edward A. Uniacke, of the class of 1938, is a captain in the United States Marines on duty in the Solomon Islands. Another member of the class of 1938. Charles Beasley, is also a captain in the Marines on duty in the South Pacific. Charles Beasley happens to be my brother-in-law so now I can brag just as much as Joe. Incidentally, both of these boys started their Marine training while students at the Uni­versity and have earned the rank of captain, the hard way, at the age of 25 or 26. Not bad. eh? 
John O'Shaaghnessy, baby-faced barrister of LaSalle Street, is soon to move to Wichita, Kans. He will stop chasing ambulances to take a job that has something to do with oil or Indians or airplanes. Look out. Indians! 
Wonder what Johnny Poynton is doing in Mur­physboro. III. ? What could anybody do in Murphys­boro? 
 (j.g.) Robert M. Cahill, cfo Alumni 

1934 Lt. 
Association, Notre Dame, Ind. Alnmni Contributors, 1942-43 

Kli M. Abraham (additional) Notre Dame; Lieut. Robert M. Cahill. Notre Dame; John E. Clauder (additional) Milwaukee: Harold B. Desnoyer, Binghamton. N. Y.; James C. Fesler. Alliance, O.; Robert L. Hamilton (additional) Racine, Wis.; Alfred J. Hiegel, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Edward W. Krause (additional) Notre Dame: John S. McKier­
*nan. Providence. R. I.; Qiarles F. Quinn. Mineola, 
N. Y.; James P. Reeves. New York City; Ihomas 
H. Waldron, Trenton. N- J.; John L. Venables, Cleveland. 
Jim Facan reports that he is a lieutenant on* the staff and faculty of the officers candidate school. Fort Monmouth. N. J. Dick Chapman, ex. '34, writes that he is stationed at Camp Roberts. Calif., and hopes to enter field artillery officers training soon. Bob Fitzsimons is in the production division of the Edgewood. Md.. Arsenal. He is also active in the NCCS. assisting Bill Gremvy* '24. who is the top man in the NCCS locally. 
Glass Secretary Cahill left wife and tickets be­hind and reported at Harvard on December 1 as a lieutenant (j.g.) for training in communications. Give him some practice in communicating. Post­cards, telegrams and cablegrams, not to mention letters will be forwarded by the Alumni Office. 
I T^ O Are., St. lAmim, Me. James W. Bookwalter (additional) South Bend; Paul A. Fergus, South Bend; John P. Fitzpatrick, Chicago; Irving Garnitz (additional) South Bend; Falmore Bath Harris, South Bend; Vermont C. Harter, South Bend; Robert L. Hostetler. South Bend; Herman R. Judd. South Bend; Maurice G. Kane, South Bend; Theodore A. Klosinski. South Bend; Anthony S. Kuharich. South Bend; John 
W. Lawrence. South Bend; Arnold B. Morrison, Syracuse, N. Y.; Eugene L. O'Brien. South Bend; Francis-'F. O'Brien (additional) Elmira, N. Y.; Russell J. O'Shea. Cairo, III.; Robert P. Ftender­gast. Kansas City. Mo.; William F. Ryan. Muncie. Ind.; Robert J. Shields, Kalamazoo. Mich.; Jt^n 
A. Slattery (additional) Detroit; Edward J. Smith. South Bend. 
From Hoch: Here we are again, fellas, and it seems as though we are oft to something of a start with our nation-wide reporting system. At least we heard from four of the gang. But how about the rest of you December reporters kicking through with the goods, in addition to the following who will be responsible for the column in February? Let us have the copy by Jan. 13. And the report­ers will be: Jerry MoUnari, Herb Nadeaa, Jim 0*Meara. John Pocoro, Pat Quirk. Walt Ryan, Mitch Saleh, Manrie Tombracel. Joe UndcAolier, Adrian Wackerman. To our participating reporters —our best and our thanks! 
A personal word might start us off and then we'll turn you over to your loyal correspondents: The Hochs have an heir! Yep—Judith Ann was introduced to the world conflict on Oct. 30. She just missed being a "spook." 
From Harry Gaffney, 931 Worthington St.. Sprinjr­field, Mass., to Hoch: 
.. . I was glad to see that you are going to be the class scribe again. You certainly have done & splendid job during the past seven (or is it eight) years? And many congratulations. 
There are only a few items of interest concern-int; the N.D. boys in this end of the old Bay State that I know of. The first concerns Gzorce (Mugsy) McGrath. He is now a sergeant in the Marines and is stationed at Quantico. Va. Accord­ing to his latest letter he expects to t e trans­ferred before long. 
About three months ago I was in Springfield 
R.R. Station when a large group of draftees went marching by. I thought I recognized Loo (Lefty) Dunn in the group, but by the time"! got within hailing distance they had started up the stairs to­ward the ramp, and as there were seven or eight thousand M.P.s around I couldn't get close enough to find out for sure whether it was old Lefty liOU or not. . . . 
Last summer I recall reading a dash or two in the local p=per about Ray Shea (Phy; Ed. Dept.) being assigned to the Army Phy. Ed. Dcpt. I think it was about in May and at that time he was lo­cated at a southern camp. 
.. . I gave up teaching and coaching and am now working for the Springfield "Republican," sports department. It's interesting work and I like it n lot. However, I won't be at it much longer as Uncle Sara has beckoned and before lone old 
Dabol will be eanyins a gan hitber mnd jron. . 
Tlie followini; information is about NJ>. bogrs. bat not members of our class. Jee Prai4tisart» *36, is now s lieutenant in the Army and is sta­tioned sonewliere in Alaska. Jaacph (Cy).C«nwr was appointed phy. ed. instructor and football coach at Northampton Hi ^ SchooL Northaraptoii, incidentally, is the home town of Hr. Scaantff. cB-: rector of Phy. Ed. at KJ>. Cf also was.a '36er and he was a biff bad wolf as far as Dan. tite , gym custodian, was concerned. Paal McMwa^, '34, of Boston, is now a lieutenant (j.?.) in the Navy. Hs was married to a little Irish lass a couple of 
*weeks ago. 
From Lt. TiMmas J. Feley, Section 175, A P 
Area, Ft. Monmouth, Red Bank. N. J., to Hack: 
Here it is—the news about the '35ers that Pve 
seen or heard from since I got in the Army. 
DnmeD McCermadc, *36, and'I were sent to Camp 
Crowder. Mo.—^there we found Tam Fbraa (tf East 
Orange. He had been there a few weeks taidns 
care of preliminary reconnaissance whidi uncov­
ered Marten Zahn LaFamtatne P—Ihsit in Jop­
lin. Mo. •. ^ ' 
We had Sunday dinner with him several times. Flynn was sent to Officers Candidate School at Fort Monmouth, N. J., in June; he was comrais­sicned in September and stationed in Atlanta and then in Columbus, Ga., at Benmng. I came to OCS at'Honmouth in Jul^ and shortly afterward recdved an invitation from Bob Prendeisast of Kansas City to visit him some week-end. Tlien along came letters from J«lin and Jim Canlsan. John is with Allis Chalmers Corp., and Jim, you know, is at St. Louis University working toward the day hell say his first Mass in six or eight years. , 
Then one day outside the PX—I ran into Neil Farrell; he, too. was ccnnmissioned in September. I was in New York City one week-end in October and ran into Lt. {i^g.} Francis Sddaetcr, Medical Corps, United States Navy, and Roy Scbelx. Fran­cis is at the Naval Reserve Aviation Base, Willow Grove. Pa., and Roy is attending ophthalmolo^st at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Baltimore, and ^ling research in chemical warfare. 
I was commissioned Oct. 16 in the Signal Corp. Spent my 10-day leave in Memphis and then to Asbury Park, N. J., where I'm learning to drive GI Trucks. Guess I'll be a motor transport officer. 
Couldn't get into New York in time for the Army game, but did get there in time to see a few NJ>.*ers and hear about some more from Fran Sdlveter. Fran saw Bill Kecfe at the Rally Friday night—also Bill FarrelL "Pntsie" is work­ing at the Boston Arsenal and going to Harvard Law. Paal Lecher, *38, is a Yeoman 2/c at the re­cruiting office, 90 Church St., N.Y.G. 
Fran told me Nc4 Kawan is an ensign going to the Communications School at Harvard, and Bill Moss (j.g.) Supply Corps, Philadelphia. 
Gerry Deyle had an addition to his family Nov. 5, a girl, name Katherine Belle — mother and daughter doing nicely. Gerry is building ships in Benumont. Texas. 
I expect to be here a few more weeks if any­body wants me. 
From Art KranzfeMer, 6221 College Ave., Indian­apolis, to Hedi: 
In a letter to the local council of the K. of C , our old friend, Pat Kslwr, writes that at present he is stationed at Scott field. 111., taking a coarse ic radio operation and maintenance. Seems Pat is going technical on us. After his indnction at Fort Myer, Va.. he was sent to the reception center at Camp Lee and then "toiled in the tropic sun** at Miami Beach before bang transferred to Scott Reld. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Quite by accident I met Dick Biggins in the corner grocery about two weeks ago and discov­ered that he has become a neighbor of mine. Be­lieve me, that guy is balder than ever! This might be partly explained, however, by the fact that he recently weathered that gruelling ordeal of becom­ing a father. It is a girl, and, as Dick says, proud­ly and apparently somewhat surprised. "She's got hair, too!" 
Learned from Dick that Jo3 Drucckcr, who had been -working here, has returned to Kokomo to take over management of the family business since the death of his father. 
From Lt. GeorKc Bntb^r, Department of Gunnery. Field Artillery School, Fort Sill, Okla., to Hoch: 
I see in the alumni magazine, I'm supposed to let you know all the news from this end of the woods, I'm afraid they have picked a rather poor source since I haven't seen a classmate in q\"er a year. 
I had a letter from Cliff Dudley when he was stationed down at "Wichita Falls. We tried to get together but the day w-e started to go down he had to go somewhere else. Very shortly afterwards I was called back into the Army and haven't had much spare time since. ,1 don't know whether he is still there or not but I doubt it. 
At present I'm stationed here at Fort Sill and am trying to teatih gunnery to officer candidates here at the Field Artillery School. 
I^ast month, Sept. 12 to be exact, v.-e got a new member in our family whom we have named Stephen—we call him Steve. 
This is quite a large post and surely there must be someone else from our class here, but who he is and what outfit he is in, I haven't the slightest idea. 
Bob Klaiber, ex. '35. writes that he has moved to Lemoyne, Pa. Rottsell O'Shea spoke recently to members of the Cairo, III., Ki^vanis club, describ­ing the University, both physically and historically. Jack HcGrath is a lieutenant (i.g.) in the Navy and at latest reports was somewhere in the Pacific. 
Tom Flynn is reported bound for parts un­"known, after graduating from officers training. John DowIinK, ex. '35, is covering the newsfront with Rear Admiral Nimitz in the Pacific. 
"The Architectural Forum" recently devoted a number of pages to the new office building in Buf­falo of the National Gypsum Co. Den Love, Wil­liams\'ille, N. Y., is one of the architects who designed the building. A note in a Charleston, 
S. C , daily reports that Ensign Wally O'Brien, who inten'iews applicants for naval commissions at the Charleston station, recently attended a meeting of the Charleston alumni at a Charleston 
liotol. 
 F. Mansfield, 34 Fifth St., Pcl-

1936 
Jowph 
ham. X. Y. 
Alamni Contributors, 1942-43 

Arthur A. Baum, Wilmington, Del.; James B. "Burke,. Hanford, Calif.; Lieut. Alan E. Don­ovan, Willitnantic, Conn.; Edward R. Esch. South Bend; Thomas F. Gorman, Arlington, N. J.; Rev. ^Edmund F. Hammer. Montrose, N. Y.; Joseph P. Hmurcik, Bridgeport. Conn.; Richard P. Kuehn, ^ut h Bend; Dr. I&nneth F. Laws (additional) Lafayette, Ind.; Robert A. McAuliffe. Eau Claire, Wis.; George R. McNeile, South Bend: George E. Milton, Manhasset, N. Y.; Ensign John J. Moran, "Kew York City; Lieut. Joseph A. Nigro, Yon­kers, N. Y.; Charles C. Palmer, Mishawaka. Ind.: Paul E. Eubly, Arcadia, Calif.: John J. Skelly. Evansville, Ind.; Richard W. Snooks, St- Josei)h, 
Jio.; Paul Hasao Yazaki, Heart Mountain. Wyo, 
From Joe Mansfield: In following John Moran in his job of keep­ing the cass record, I'm well aware that Tve taken on a pretty sizeable job. I can well ap­preciate the exceptionally fine job that John has done since we were graduated from N- D. To equal that fine piece of work that the doughty Ensign turned in is far beyond my capability. However, I'll do my best. 
Since I'm now holding down a job here in New York with NBC which carries the mis­leadingly impressive title of Production Director, I've had an opportunity to see John a few times. At the moment he is kept very busy boning up on mathematics and sundry subjects in an effort to become one of the Na\-y's crack navigators. John has been stationed in New York but he's anxious to get a crack at sea duty. 
He told me that he hears from Andy Hafnaxel. now in the Army, every once in awhile and we hope to get together with him one of these nights. Another '36er. Sherb Herrick, is also stationed in New York, working for the Navy. I've been hoping to see Sherb to talk about dozens of things pertaining to N. D. and radio. You know, Sherb was in radio too and a good man he was. Back a year or so, he was chosen the Eastern League's top announcer. 
It would be great if all the '36 men in and around New York City could get together one of these nights and discuss old times. 
Over the Army game week-end, several '36 men were here. I talked with Luke Tiemmn for a few minutes in the Fenn the night before the game. He is sporting a Marine uniform and has the rank of lieutenant. Luke was stationed in Washington but expected to be shifted in the near future. He managed to get away from that busy town with his very attractive wife to take in the game. 
Another classmate present was Ralph Cardinal. ex of the glee club. Ralph was in the Army, stationed at Camp Edwards in Massachusetts, but on the death of his Dad, was discharged. He expects to go back into ser\'ice in the near future. I know that all the men in the class join me in extending sincerest sympathies to Ralph, in his loss. 
Lt. Bill Ellis was in town too. Bill will be remembered for his excellent cartoons and cari­catures in the "Scholastic" and his annual cam­paign to sell his caricatures of the football team. Bill has been in the Army since long be­fore Pearl Harbor and is one of Uncle Sam's better pilots. One day soon. Bill will receive a promtion to captain. He told us, in slight de­tail, of a few flights to foreign points. It was apparent that he left out more than he told. Willy Shea, as round as ever, was present in the uniform of the Army. I didn't have much of a chance to talk with him but he looked to be in the pink of condition. 
Tom Kcnnelly and Tom Keenmn were "doing the town" with their charming wives. Tom has left his position with the "News" to work for one of the larger 'plane manufacturing outfits. Kee­nan, still with the "News," is planning to join his bosom pal in turning out planes and parts in the near future. 
John Moran told me that he had lunch one day last August with Jim Kirby and Cy Stroker. '37. Jim who has been with the F.B.L in Detroit for over a year, was in New York on his way back to duty after taking a "refresher" course in Washington. John says he was looking well and that Jim reported that he likes his work very much. His address is 281 Worcester Place, De­troit. 
John also turned over to me a letter from Capt. Georffe Harphy which read: "Enjoyed your column very much and was interested to find out where my pal Gcorce Meaffiier was. He ' sure is in the thick of it. I am finishing a three months training as a flight surgeon here, the first six months I spent at the School of Aviation Medicine, Randolph Field, Texas. I am leaving here soon for a place in Boston and then will take a long trip. 
"I've been a captain since Feb. 1 and if I can be of any help to the 36ers, I would be glad to have them get in touch with me. 
Well. '36ers, I guess by this time, Capt. George Murphy is in the thick of it. Let's wish him the best of luck. 
I received a letter recently from Sam Reed who is now in the Navy with the rank of ensign. He says: 
".. . I am at Great Lakes Naval Training Center—^yes, I joined the Navy as Ensign C.E.C. V(S). Was stationed first at Norfolk. Va. . . . Consider myself very lucky because here I am able to continue practicing engineering as I had in civilian life. . . . 
"Haven't seen too many of the boys lately. My old roommate, Bernard McCormick, is down at Camp Lee in Officers Training School. Had been teaching in his hometown, Brownsville. Pa., the last few years. Following out his English. I have a candidate for a halfbcck post at Notre Dame—Charles B::ss R3ed—he is all the way to one year old but I can tell now he'll be able to hold his own at good oM Notre Dame. [Sec. note: I know just how you feel, Szm. I've got a can­didate for the other half-back spot.]." 
Sam goes on to say that before joining the navy, he was employed as dam engineer by the Department of Forests and Waters, State of Pennsyh'ania. Sam had held this position since January. 1940. He was located in Harrisburg. 
Many thanks for that fine leter, Sam, and con­gratulations on the son. Best of luck to you and Mrs. Reed and Charles Bass. 
Brother Moran gave me another bit of infor­mation—God bless him. He told me that he had served as best man at Bod Goldman's wedding, Aug. 8. TTie ceremony took place at the home of the bride at Hewlett, Long Island. John re­ported that he saw Bud and the new Mrs. off for Camp Bowie, Texas, a few days after the ceremony. 
It wasn't too long after that that Bud came through with a dandy letter. It was full of inter­esting matter so we'll pass it along to you: 
"Now that you have assumed the duties hereto­fore capably handled by Ensign Moran I have at last something to do with ray spare time. And according to Army tradition a coriwral has con­siderable spare time. 
".. . I fervently hope and pray that some day all of us can gather and rekindle thoughts of bygone days under the 'Dome*. . . 
"FLASH! Just a month ago today, I went home on furlough and took unto myself a young damsel by name Eleanor Niditch. She returned to camp with me and we're both living in Brown-wood, Texas, a few minutes from Camp Bowie. .. . I've been toying with the idea of Officer's Training School but ray present set-up at home and my present duties in the registrar's office of the Station Hospital make for a comfortable combination so I think I'll stay put until ray Army status calls for the packing of bags and the exchange of goodbyes. "During my basic training at Camp Barkeley, Texas, I lived in a barracks adjacent to one Johnny Haher, a No-, tre Damer from Tyler. Texas. Johnny and I si>ent considerable time together and occasion­ally visited Ouplain Hurray* a Notre Damer. 
"I have yet to burap into any N. D. men here at Bowie. However I did meet a nurse-friend of Lt. J«e Norton, pre. med. at N. D., who told me he had been here for a while but then left for foreign shores unknown. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"Correspondence is an excellent morale-builder so pass along my address to all our mutual Irish* ers and I hereby promise that all mail received will be answered. I*m particularly interested in hearing from you, Joe Bocci (a Marine and being trained as a commando), Andy Hafnarel, Leb Cifrese of Morristovm, N. J., Adrian Wmcker­man of Philadelphia. Ensign Moran, on dry duty somewhere in lower Manhattan, and those multitudes who haunted me with gossipy items for the Caf Smoke column in the 'Scholastic* 
"And Vm particularly anxious to toss off a few^ hearty bellos to Profs. Tom Madden, Panl Fcnlon, John Whitman and the policeman in the little booth at the entrance to the campus. 
"This letter has me steeped in Notre Dame nostalgia. I can almost hear the pitter-patter of heavy feet tramping down and up the second floor of Howard Hall (now in dry dock). I can recall vividly Saturday night scrambles across the campus to the movies in Washington Hall. Glee Club concerts and daily rehearsals will al­ways be a treasured memory (and a big hello to Joe Casasanta and his cigar). 
"I guess the more deeply I become imbedded in this soldier business, the more enhanced are my thoughts of my four years at Notre Dame. Just one day at Notre Dame would have made that damn fool Hitler realize that Democracy is the only true w-ay of life and living. 
"I honestly experience a tremendous thrill while reading in the *A1umnus* of the activities of Notre Dame men in the different branches of the service. In my own humble way I wish them all Godspeed, good luck and a safe return. Now more than ever, are we men of Notre Dame aware of the true meaning of the Notre Dame Spirit. With a handful of N. D. men on every lighting front, I can only suggest that Hitler answer the next 'Painter Wanted* ad he reads in the Nazi-controlled press. 
"Please give my regards and best of luck to all those boys in Howard Hall. My sincerest hello to all my '36 colleagues, and to you and your family the best of everything.- My address is Detachment Medical Dept. Station Hospital. Camp Bowie, Texas, (until further notice). Here's to victory and peace." 
Buddy, that*s a fine letter. Please write soon and often. It is my opinion that in that letter, you have pretty much expressed the opinion of every Notre Dame man. May you and your wife enjoy the greatest happiness. 
John Desmond has completed his training at Officers School in the south and has been com­missioned a lieutenant. In a letter to me the other day he reported that he is now at New­port News awaiting a promotion. 
That's about all for this time. I'd appreciate it if you would drop me a card once in a while— particularly you lads in the service—^just telling where you are and what you're doing. 
» So long until the next time. 
Bill Ellis, lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, spent seven months in patrol and interception work in Iceland after spending several months as instructor at Kelly Field, Texas, and as command­er of the headquarters squadron at Mitchell Field, 
N. Y. He is stationed at the Elast Boston airport as flight operations officer. 
Jim SiddaU, after sailing the seven seas on a Navy transport until the middle of June, is now a yeoman, first class, stationed at the American Embassy in London. He would appreciate "hearing from some of the lads.*' 
Joe O'Neill is with the FBI. BiU Prendergast. Bridgeport, Conn., is at an army school at Camp Ritchie, Md. 
I J 3 1 Gro w Pointe. Blich. Alamnl Contnbaton, 1942-43 Louis G. Alaman, Philadelphia; Lawrence E. Danbom, South Bend; Daniel P. Falsioni. Akron. 
N. Y.; John G. Farabaugh. South Bend; Edward 
W. Fischer, Rensselaer, Ind.; John J. Lechner. South Bend; Barry R. Linn. South Bend; Francis 
T. McGuire, Lexington. Ky.; John F. Nims, Notre Dame; Joseph M. Nyikos. South. Bend: John H. Sheehan, Notre Dame; Robert M. Siegfried. IVilsa; Ensign Cyril F. Stroker, Salisbury, Md. 
Harry Weakley is a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps and is a battalion adjutant and commanding officer of a headquarters company. Sgt. Ray McGrath, of Oak Park. 111., was at Camp Callan. Calif., but is now* in Florida for officer training at Miami Beach. 
Frank Reilly comes through nobly as follows: . . . Lieut. Frank Carroll, *37. became the father of a baby girl. Mary Elizabeth, on Oct. 18. Mrs. Carroll is the former Mary Elizabeth Schwartz, sister of Al Schwartz, also '37. ITie Carrolls live in Galveston. Texas, where Frank is stationed. His home is in New Rochelle. N. Y. 
Other *37ers are few and far between. Jastin McCann is the only other fellow from our class who I know was at the Army game., However, the fact that I saw none of my other cronies at the game can probably be explained by the fact that I was sitting en the 50-yard line. Really! I saw Tom Stritch, '34. trying to buy a hot dog and coffee after the game. He was neatly gotten up in the Na\T outfit. Oh yes. in case you have not seen the clippings from the New York papers, covering the game, before and after, I must say the sports departments really went all out. The high spot was the "N.Y. World-Telegram's" coverage. In ad­dition to Joe Williams* fine direct reports from Notre Dame, the "Telly" ran a lot of pictures, in­cluding one of the Rockne Memorial. More than that no man can ask. In consequence thereof. I took it on myself to write letters to the sports editors of most of the New York papers thanking them. The reason I know what a good job they did is that I have gotten to be quite a clipping hobby­ist, having a drawer and a quarter of my desk at home filled with N.D. clippings. , . . The Notre Dame swing-cheer put on by the band was very well received by the crowd. 
Since the middle of the summer I've been work­ing for MacNair-Dorland, publishers of "Soap & Chemicals." "American Ink Maker,*' and "Mod­ern Lithography." I edit the "Ink Maker" and do rewrite, write news and features for "Soap." I like the work very much and I'm with a good outfit. I used to be with the Haire Publishing Co.. who publish trade journals in the retail fields, but made the change to advance^ Being one of "Doc" Cooney's old boys, naturally I'm imbued ^yith a love of the publishing business. 
Class of 1937 news might include a note to the effect that Frank Huisking of that class is now a private in the U.S. Army and stationed at Fort Slocum. N. Y. I also heard tell that Frank also runs his father's soap business, which is quite a feat if true. Jack Hariey. also of *37. tells me gas rationing removed him from the insurance business and put the man with a policy into a construction company's payroll in the environs of Gene\*a, N. Y. 
Ed Hoyt's brother. Jack, tells me that Eddie, after traveling 40- to 50,000 miles in the last 10 months, has found time to squeeze in a term at officers training school from which he w-aa graduated recently a^s a second lieutenant. 
I 7 W O Rd., Baltimore. Md. Alumni Contribators, 1942-43 John T. Bourke. Chicago: Edward H. Carson, 
Rochester. N. Y.; J. Alvin Draling, Minneapolis; Ensign George F. fitzpatriek. Arlington. Va.; William J. Gibbons (additional) South Bend; Thomas E. Hacker, South Bend; Edward C. Hager (additional) Sooth Bend; Edmund Ralph Bagger. Dallas, Tex.; laeot. Walter J. Harris. Jersey City. N. J.; Ensign Donald F. Hickey, South Bend; Ensign Francis A. Mnlhem, New York City; Alfred H. 0*Meara. Jr.. Denver; Ensign John F. Floaff, Notre Dame; John G. Sdimitz, llfTn. 0.; Capt. John A. Scott. South Bend; Ptrt. Phillip J. Shields. Seattle; Leonard H. Skoglund, Western Springs. HL; Charles A. Sweeney. South Bend; Charles R. Webster. Midland. Mich.; John 
R. Zerbst, Kansas City. Ho. 
Cliadc Tcriy, formerly in Peoria with the Boss Manufacturing Company (work gloves), is now assistant manager of the company's factory in Findlay, O. Chuck is already the father of a couple of huskies. Patrick and Peter, and stork wings are flapping nearby. 
Word from the Philadelphia Club says that Lt. Kyle DanncO is in the Naval Hospital there. N o details yet but the Alumni Office is investigating. 
From Hal Williaas: 
I'm sorry to report that I have no news to pass along this year about the Notre Dame-Army game. I didn't make the trip. I got married instead. On Oct. 17 I was married to Ruth Edna (BilUe) Smith in Frederick. Md. There was a Notre Dame touch to the wedding as Bad Sherwaod« my old roommate from Flint. Mich., and Jade Zerfet, who has just returned from India, were ushers at the wedding. At the wedding were two other NJ>. men; Jade LeUMtz and Ralph Wachter, both '39 and both from Frederick.. 
That's all about the wedding except that we are now residing at Apt. 179. 4323 Marblehall Road, Baltimore. Drop in and see us. but bring your own sugar and coffee. 
I didn't have much time to pump Zerbtt about his experiences in India as he didn't arrive in Baltimore until the day before the wedding, but I did get this much; He has never met Ghandi; India is a big country; he has learned to speak Hindustan: there are no beautiful women in India; and he has no desire to return imm^ate­ly. Jack was working for the National Carbon Company over there, selling blackout flashlights to unsuspecting natives. He was over there for approximately three and a half years. He came back on an Army transport and the first one to meet him on the boat was Harvey Foster, *3S. an FBI man, who was in charge of searching the boat and examining the passengers. Jack si>ent a few weeks in New York, went home to Kansas City, stopped off at N.D.. came east to Baltimore and his good friend Zimmerman. [Later: Zerbst is in the FBI now.—Ed.] 
Bud Sherwood, looking fatter than ever, is now back in Flint, and is working for Chevrolet as an accountant. 
Thera is not much mail, but here it is: A letter arrived yesterday from Tom Hntdunson,' late of Indianapolis, now of New York City. Tom is now working for the National Opinion Re­search Center, University of Denver, 280 Madison Avenue. New York. N. Y. He adds. "Since the recent ceiling on salaries. I'm not getting what Pm worth, of course. But $24,999 isn*t exactly hay, either.** 
And this fine letter from Ensign Jerry Ledrina. U.S.NJI.: I had been teaching philosophy and psychology at Our Lady of the Lake College, San Antonio. Texas, for the past year. It was a lovelr set-up—something on the Mohammedan's idea of heaven. One beautiful afternoon last May a. knock on the door of my ethics classroom was; followed by a pleasant inquiry, "Is Jerry there?"" In walked Cadet Nick Lamherto who had been. 
training In the Air Force at Kelly Field. On a campus full of jdrls any strange male is apt to cause some confusion and excitement: and to re­store order to the classroom I had to detail a few of the sirls to show Nick the lampus. He was well pleased. But the sirls who had to listen to the remainder of my lecture were disappointed. 
"At the Tower in San Antonio one inevitably will run into old NJD. grads. I ran into Leo Weleli just before he was to leave for Ellington Field, Houston, for further training in the Air Force. On a similar occasion I saw Greg Kelly there with a number of other cadets. 
"On Ascension Thursday my metaphysical speculation was interrupted by a notice from the Na\-y Department. Four days later I was in uni­form at Notre Dame taking indoctrination courses. . . . Pierre de Is Vergne, who lives here, expects to return to New Orleans soon. He is currently at the Navy Pre-Flight school at Athens, Ga. The only N.D. alumnus Tve actually seen since 'coming to New Orleans last July 30, was Lt. Jim Swift (U.S.N.R,). If any of the boys stop at New Orleans on their way South. West, or East, I'll be glad to see them.*' Jerry's address is: Headquarters Eighth Naval District. 436 Audubon 
Building, New Orleans. 
Thaiiks, Jerry, for the doggone swell letter. Let's hear from you again, soon. 
And now from Joe O'Brien, writing on the stationery of Bayonne Associates, Port Terminal, Bayonne, N. J. Writes Joe. "George Kecnan was just in the office and left me the 'Alumnus.' I no­tice that Daniel F. Byan was in the Air Corps. Is that 'Shoeless* F. Ryan from Rushville? I've written to him about three times in recent years, but never received a reply. I'd like to hear from him. Also any of the other boys. For your vital statistics file, I have been married two years, am purchasing for a dry dock job in Bayonne. N. J., and expect to enter the Marine Corps shortly. I used to run into some of the boys while working in N.Y.C., but since being transferred to Bay­onne» I haven't met any N.D. men except George Keenan who took me under his wing and mzde me feel quite at home. It certainly was luck>' for me meeting some one from school. I'm changing my address shortly, but any mail addressed as above or to 33-42 72 Street, Jackson Heights. N.y., will reach me." 
Thanks, Joe. Have you been catching any mice lately? Like you did in Sorin Hall. . . . 
And then there is a cr>*ptic and' laconic note from T^Sgt. Eddie Mattingly, now attached to the War Department Civilian Defense School," Texas 
A. & M. College, Texas. Eddie announces that he is engaged—^to a girl named Rita. (I've met Rita, a swell girl, but I can't think of her Inst name. However, she's from western Maryland. and is now a nurse in Baltimore.) Then Eddie says, "Since I last wrote to you, I've been to Tulsa. Okla., Shreveport. La.. Beaumont. Texas, and Z^eague City, Texas. While at League City, a fellow came up and asked. 'Aren't you Eddie MatUngly?' He was Howard L. Lardic. He was an electrical engineer in our class." Eddie then went on to tell how he was involved in an ex­plosion. He says, somewhat calmly, "and two minutes after I jumped out the window—couldn't get out the door because of the fire—the building blew up." 
And now that's all except for a few notes: I had a postcard from Kids Lamberto recently. Said he is now a pilot on one of those B-26*s and is headed for overseas duty. Nick is probably landing his plane on the hot sands of Africa at this minute and flirting with those Moslem women during his free time. . . . Zerbst said he spent a very pleasant time with Georre Howard and his wife in Washington. . . . George is working for an insurance company, and. according to Zerbst, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
has the nicest and prettiest house this side of 
. Hollywood. .. . Zerbst said he also bumped into (I'm not too sure about this) Tom Fitzpatridc in the Navy Department in Washington. .. . BUI Stmpleton, *36. of Boston, who was stationed at the Third Service Command Headquarters in Balti­more, is now taking officers training in the Mili­tary Police School. . . . 
That's all for the time being except—how about some letters, boys? 
I JSJ US City, Ho. 
Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 

William E. Carroll (additional) Detroit: Valen­tine B. Deale, Cleveland: Vincent W. DeCoursey, Kansas City, Mo.; Robert A. Derengoski, Wilming­ton. N. C : Ensign Joseph F. Dray, Jr., New Haven, Conn.; Virgil T. Dreiling (Army) Vic­toria. Kans.; Maurice N. Frank, South Bend; Richard J. Garab, South Bend: Francis X. Gart­land. Jr. (additional) Marion, Ind.; Kenneth E. Higby. Jr., PFC, Seattle: Paul Howard, South Bend; Robert W. Huether, Los Angeles; John C. Hynes, South Bend; Jerome J. Kaczmarek (addi­tional) South Bend; Raymond A. Kane. Chicago; Robert J. Kavtsak. Pittsburgh ; Lieut. Edward G. McDermott (additional) Grand Rapids; Joseph L. McDonald, Jr^ Providence, R. I.; Lieut. Martin 
S. McGinnis. Memphis; James G. J. McGoldrick (additional) Philadelphia; John J. McGovem, Jr., Pittsburgh: James T. McNelis, Hazleton, Pa.; Edward H. Merrill. Jr., South Bend;. David T. Meskill (additional) Roslindale. Mass.; Francis J. O'Laughlin. Fort Wayne. Ind.; Robert M. Ortale, Kingston. N. Y.; Lieut. Charles B. Rasor, Troy, O.: Carl L. Sabo (additional) South Bend; Ed­ward M. Sadowski, Indianapolis; Raymond M. Schleck, South Milwaukee, Wis.; Robert C. Schroeder, New York City; Ensign Peter F. Sand-rock. Portland, Ore.; Paul C. TuUy, Jamaica. 
N. Y. 
From Vince DeCoursey: If the services don't quit drawing new blood and the work at home doesn't let up. this column is going to be a mere shadow of its present not­too-extensive self. Not that we are complaining; we've been a little too busy here to do justice to the job, but if anyone gets a few minutes to him­self it wouldn't take much time or effort to drop a note on the back of a postcard to let us know where he is and what he is doing. 
John CelJa—"Short and snappy. Completed O.C­S., Sept. 29: commissioned 2nd Lt. F.D., Sept. 30; engaged to Miss Tina Par.-.chini, Oct. 4. Now preparing to leave for overseas duty." 
And there goes . another regular contributor. John was one of the most consistent correspond­ents we had and Lord knows he won't be able to drop much information on the rest of us from Africa, Australia, or what have you. How about a few lines from somebody else? 
Had the good fortune of being able to go to Chicago for Dick Anton's wedding late in Sep­tember. While there ran into a few items of in­terest. The club car on the train furnished, ap­propriately enough, information on Harry Schroe­der; he's married and is retiring from a job in a defense plant near Fort Madison, la., to be in­ducted into the army, or has retired, since the date of induction furnished us was Oct. 16. 
Was quite surprised to see Jim Waldi, or the shadow of Jim Walsh. At the reception after Dick's wedding, we passed by a vaguely familiar figure that introduced himself as Jim Walsh after we had -gone right past him. You wouldn't know the old place. Jeep Walsh has shed pounds and pounds. Busy with two children, a position in the tax department of Marshall Field, he looks fine. Not many others showed up at the wedding, most being in the army. Tom Reardon, ex-Kansas Citian, and, we understand, ex-Chicagoan shortly, was there, of course, and Bill Clifford. Dick left shortly after for Charles City, la., where he will be in charge of personnel for Oliver Farm at their plant there. We haven't heard from him since, but presume he is still alive. If he gets this he can consider it a plea for a letter before only dog sleds get through to wherever Oiarles City is. By the time of the spring thaws we might not be here to receive it ourself. 
Frank Parits. of all people, is going to be a teacher of blind flying. From 3Ist Tech. School Sqdn. (Special), Flight C. Jefferson Barracks, Mo., a letter—as follows: "I suppose you'll be rather shocked to hear from me again, but these are strange times. 
"Yes, I'm in the Army Air Corps here in Mis­souri for basic training. Will then be sent out to technical school to become a link trainer. Seems that one has to wait about three months for a school quoto opening. Then 18 weeks training, and then to work teaching cadets blind flying. 
"Well,' I finished Law School, and took my 
LL.B. this June. Also admitted to state of Wis­consin and Federal Bar. Practiced till the Army called Sept. 24." After a few remarks about Mis­souri heat and dust, which he is probably missing at this moment if still in Missouri, Frank closed with the admonition to write, and we will do this if we get another address. 
From Dino FalsionL And just by way of aside, the old typewriter pounded that out without being touched. Every month since we can remember those three words have been in the column and we hope that they'll continue for many, many more months. If not, we'll probably have to fold up. Says Dino: "I am very sorry to hear that Mario Tonelli is missing in action. 
"Have been very busy in law school. Our courses have been accelerated so that we can graduate on Jan. 26. 1943. Many of my Albany Law School classmates are in the Armed Forces scattered tliroufdiout the world. Our class started with 73 members; at present we have 24. 
"My future is very indefinite. [Which has a fa­miliar ring.] Due to a bad right hip, I was placed in 4F. After graduation, I will try to enter one of the armed sen'ices. If unsuccessful, I'll be forced to start the practice of law. Many lawyers in New York State are working the 4 p.m. to mid­night shift in the war plants, carrying on their law work in the morning, with the help of a good secretary. This gives them a chance to help In the war effort by helping to make the mate­rials necessary for the winning of the war. I'll be only too glad to help in this way, wherever I will be of the most use. Regards to all the fellows." 
Dino added a very interesting P.S., namely: "Lt. Andrew F. Wilson, Army Air Corps, was married to Margrethe Jean Michelson, Detroit, on Aug. 22, in Meridian, Miss." « 
Add vital statistics: "Dr. and Mrs. Frederick Hogan announce the marriage of their daughter, Adelaide Agnes, to Dmvid Thomis Hcskill, Jr., Ensign, U.S.N.R., on Saturday the seventeenth of October, West Roxbury, Mass." And, "Just a short note to let you know that on Oct. 10th, we be­came the proud parents of a little daughter. Kathleen Marie. Sincerely. Joseph J. HieceL" Joe is still in Warren, C , working for Republic Steel. 
A very nice letter was received soma time apo from Mrs. T. H. Clarke, of Des Moines. la. Mrs. Clarke enclosed a newspaper clipping telling of the promotion to a captaincy of her son, Ed. ITie captaincy came about after E>d had seen action on Midway. Ed's address at the time Mrs. Clarke wrote was Co. E., Marine Barracks. Pearl Harbor. 
The Notre Danrig Alumnus 
And that's the end of it. Let's try to have more next month. Lord knows this column could use some news. 
Al Pacetta, who is now flyin}^ for the Army, recently received his win^s at the South Plains Army Flying School, one of the nation's largest advanced glider schools. 
Al Felts is stationed at Camp Wheeler, Ga. John Siecel has been promoted to first i«r};ennt at Fort Totten, N. Y. 
The followint; is the grand job of Dave Meskill, Morriss Hall D-31, Navy Supply Corps School. Soldier's Field. Boston: 
The Navy Supply Corps School here at Harvard has graduated quite a few N.D. boys as general service ensigns. In the last class to leave were Bid Nolan, '38. Uoyd Worley. *40, Joe Cammtnga, '40, Bill Cotter, Gos Dereume* Al Mago. and George Sdireibcr, *41, and Phil Lncier, '42. They are all out on active duty now. Notre Dame was fouirth among the colleges represented in that class, behind F^nn. Northwestern, and Stanford. 
Our group let down the average, for there arc only four of us. the others being Joe Loftus, *37. Ed Marr, '40. and Ed Hanly, '41. The Navy seems to agree with most of us—I even managed to get married in October—under the same circumstances as Bill Nolan did while he was here—a 6:30 Mass, followed by a dash back to a 9 o'clock class. The lucky (?) gal was Adelaide Hogan—a veteran of the '39 Senior Ball. 
Really a good gang showed up at the Penn after the Army game: Greg Rice — sporting a bookie-tweed suit; Julie Tonsmeire, with a gal imported from Philadelphia, where he is repre­senting U.S. Rubber; Charlie Streator, now an old married man: Littleton's Joe Sullivan, actually getting thin: Matt Mcrkle, with his wife and newly acquired captain's bars; Spike Siegel. first sergeant. 
Hr. and Mrs. Luke McGuinness, down from Waterbury; Stretch Norris and Clare taking time off from the airplane industry: Bill Ricke, also a big plane producer; Army representatives Charlie Callahan, Jade Mahoney, Larry Doyle, Chick Gallacfaer and a lot more: Paul Locher. Navy, sta­tioned in New York. 
Ross Hnnt, now a big politician in Wfx>nsocket: more Rhode Island boys. Joe McDonald, Jim Mc­Carthy* and Hacdoagald wondering why Ade Martin wasn't listed on the honor roll in the last "Alumnus," and wondering if Crusher Kelle}* didn't take the Solomons single-handed; Harold Blakeman, on from South Bend. 
Harry Stevenson, still with General Electric, now in Bloomfield; Dan Kelly, with stories about Yardley's; Jack McAoliffe, Army; FBI men Har­vey Foster and Bill McVey; Pat Gorman, just as big as ever in khaki; Ed O'Donnell, still keeping the Navy's interests well in hand at Bridgeport; Stupe Ortale. who hasn't lost any more weight; Tom Hoffan; Ralph C!erra, another ensign, in ordnance; and a lot more of the old crowd. 
ITiere's no telling where news from the boys will turn up; disco\*ered from the gal that runs the dining hall here that Don Doffey is married and Ed Carroll is in the Air Corps. Ran into Art Philipps the other day. still at M.I.T. Saw-John Toomcy in Hartford last summer shortly after he married a very cute blonde I.B.H. part­ner; understand they are in Washington now. Quite a few other N.D. men around Harvard in the grad school and across the river in the other Navy schools. Doc Fitzgerald left with one of the recent Navy classes. 
ENSIGN TOM FERNEDING, '40 

Tom was injured in one of the Solo­mon battles and recuperated in an Oak­land, Calif., hospital. 
I OAf\ ^"'^'^^ ^' Suiford* 3934 N. BUtyland I ymj Ave.. MUwankce, Wis. Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 Joseph J. Armstrong, Jersey City. N. J.; Victor 
J. Blong. South Bend: William M. Bolchoz. Balti­more; William F. Cleary. Ivyland. Pa.; Juan E. Cintron. South Bend: Alexis E. Coquillard, Jr.. South Bend; John G. Else. Buifalo: Charles W. Ephgrave. Chicago; John R. Feltes. Coral Gables. Fla.; Francis E. Fergus,. South Bend: John C. Finneran. Carmi. III.; Ensign Gerald J. Flynn.­Rochester, N. Y.; Donald E. Hosinski. South Bend; Richard C. Kaczmarek, South Bend: Wilber A. Kamm, Mishawaka; Dewey C. Layton. Jr., South Bend: Sgt. J. Roch Le Page. Camden. Me.; Pfc. Richard Lyng. San Francisco; William J. Matson. Kansas City, Kans.; William F. Mclnerny. South Bend: Ferdinand E. Miholich. Jr.. (additional) South Bend; Edward V. Minczeski. Lansing. Mich.; Alan B. Mooney, Hartford. Conn.; Ensign Paul M. Morrison. Philadelphia; Leroy E. Peter­
son, South Bend; Richard J. Philion. Mishawaka; Charles E. Pieters. Mishawaka; John G. Poulin (additional) South Bend: Gerald W. Saegert. New York City: Philip J. Sandmaier. Jr., Camp Atter­bury, Ind.; Carl M. Schalliol. Mishawaka: Earl 
D. Schalliol. Mishawaka; Robert A. Slabaugh, Omaha; Otto C. Stegmaier. Jr.. St. Louis: Pfc Matthew S. Sukiennik. New York Mills. N. Y.; Bernard A. Swanser. Portland. Ore.: Lieut. Louis 
A. Urbanski. Toledo: Myles J. Walsh. Flushing. 
X. Y.; John M. Wolf, Mishawaka; Ensign Edward 
P. Wurtzebach (additional) Notre Dame. 
Charlie Kelly has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps at l^imer Field. Albany. Ga. Ed Huff wrote that he expected to finish officers' training midway in October in the Adjutant General's Detachment. Dick Ames is a lieutenant assigned to Fort Monmouth. N. J. 
Pete Sheehan, who is stationed at Hendricks Field, Fla., reports that he and Larry Devcrcax left Camp Lee together, but Larry wound up at Atlanta. Jack Moran, Pete's roomie in Freshman Hall, is in the Quartermaster's School at Fort Monmouth. N. J. 
Pmol Daly, ex. '40. is at Fort Bliss. Tex. BemaH Cashing has been commissioned lieutenant in the Army Quartermaster Corps, after attending, the officers training candidate school at Fort Warren, Wyo. He formerly was stationed at Fort Gill, Wyo. 
Jack Cole, hack from the Pacific for i^Bcer training at BCami Beadi, Fla.. visited the campus Oct. 28 and reported that iwhile on the high seas a torpedo missed hia ship by some 12 feet. Jack also reported that Jilia O'Briea of Indianapolis is back from Ireland for officer training. 
Tea FcnMdiag is (was) at the Naval Hospital in Oakland. Calif., r^niperating from his Solomon Islands fitting. Kccae Fitspatri^ San fVandseo. wrote that he intended to visit Tom early in No­vember and that other N.D. men in the area were also looking out for Tom. 
Joe NIgro, who is at Camp Ritchie. Md.. writes that his army career since Mardi 15 has broo^t him in contact with Warrant officer B«h Derea­goaU, Manistee, Mich., and Jahn CicaOeis, Albany. 
N. Y. Joe and John received their gold bars as anti-aircraft officers on Oct. 16. 
From Boh Sanfard: 
Between the hours of 1 A.M, and 6 AJC a guy called "Shorty" has been able to accumulate just a little news concerning some of the outstanding men in the armed forces and the present big shots in civilian defense—of course, these are the men of the class of *40. 
I was able to dig up a few facts about the men from Milwaukee : 
Lt. Tern Barry, ex. '40. U.SJI.C, Unit No. 120. c^o Postmaster San Francisco, was commissioned in the Marines last spring, is engaged to Rose­mary Klein. 
Jim Casper, Box 31, Notre Dame, expects to get his master's degree in bacteriology In December, enlisted in the ground crew of the Army Air Corps, expects to be called in a few months, mar­ried Eileen HcGhee last February. 
M/Sft. Daa Hashck. 1245 Euclid Ave.. Miami Beach. Fla., in the Air Corps Administrative branch, has been in the Army for a year and a half, was married last July. 
Bin SchaOcr left for Iowa Oct. 28 for training in the Navy Air Corps. 
There is one guy by the name of Bafcert G. Sanfari now a Pfc. at Fort %eridan. 111., opei^ ating as chief of the accounting secticm in the Reception Center for the last three weeks' who will give no information about himself except that his address is Barracks 432, Hq. Jk Hq. Det.. RRC. Fort Sheridan. 111. He added that he would appreciate a few letters so that he could have a presentable column to publish in some magaxine— the N.D. "Alumnus." Rumor has it that he is either their star reporter or their worst reporter. Nobody can determine for sure just which classi­fication is correct. 
Incidentally. Dan HaAck sent in a little note (the longest letter he has written since he wias in the army—unquote) and I give it to yoa for your perusal. (Honestly, fellows, I don't talk like this in the army, but once in a while I have to just to build up my morale). 
"You have been saying something in the 'Alumnus* about my being down here in Miami Beach to attend Officers* Training Sdiool. That is wrong. Right now I am master sergeant en­gaged in Air Corps administrative work. Since I was drafted I have done everything but fly. I be­gan as a 'jeep,* then became ffight clerk, drill instructor, supply sergeant, ffight first sergeant and now a combination of them all. I made pvt. first class in June after being drafted in May. corporal in Aogust, sergeant in September, staff sergeant in November, tedinical sergeant in Jane. *42, and master sergeant in September. '42. 
Recently commissioned second lieutenants in the Army Air Forces were these Notre Dame men, left to right: Lieut. Walter I. Koness, ex. '43; Lieut. William L. Quinlan, ex. '36; Lieut. Thomas E. Sheehan, '39; Lieut. Robert E. Mullen, ex. '37; Lieut. Robert 
W. Fead, ex. '40. 
"Probably the most exciting thing in ray army career, outside of getting married, was my trip from St. Louis to Miami Beach. I drove a 193S Plymouth (which I had bought for S30) 3,000 miles after it was resurrected from a junk pile. I enjoyed the trip with a minimum of tire trouble. 
"I was married on June 6 to a girl in St. Louis soon after being drafted. Her name is Lea Schneiderhoher, a St. Louis girl. 
"My roommate. Tom McCarthy, is, since July 1941, the proud father of a son, Patrick Francis. He was worldns in South Carolina on a dam his father's company was building on the Santee River. Ask Tom to w-rite his roomie more often. 
"Since being drafted I ran into the following 
N.D.
 men under various circumst^inces: Dick Ames —saw him on K.P. several times at Jefferson Bar­racks. Norv HnnUiaosen—an athletic director at 

J.
 B. Reception Center. Ben Sheridan—his Fort Riley team played a team from Jefferson Barracks. Bob Sallivmn and John Kopczak are here in 


M.C.O. Physical Training School at the present time. I ran into Ed Knsick, *33. several times here at Miami Beach. 
"About two months ago I caught a -15-pound sailfish which was really a thrill. This is not a fish story as I have a certificate and a picture to back it up. 
"I also ran into Morrie Noonan down here. He is a Marine cadet. John Gaaan called me up the other day. He had just found out I was down here on the day he had to leave. I didn't see him, but really enjoyed talking to him. 
"I have put on quite a bit of weight. I now w-^^ 212. and it is not properly placed, to be \'ery imsobtle almat it. Hierefore, I have started a stresraoQS athletic program to level off a bit. I am now on the SQuadron baseball, basketball. volleyball, touch football, and softball teams. Hutmsfa all of this, and swimming too, I expect to become very hard and lean in the next* few-months. 
"My address is H/Sgt. D. J. Hushek. 1245 Eu­clid Ave.. Miami Beach. Fla." 
You realize, of course, Dan*l, that I have been thinking of you and wondering just what has been happening. Inddentally, Dan enclosed a check to be forwarded to Bill Dooley as part of the Centenary collection. If any of you care to do the same, I will positively see that the contribution is sent to proper authorities. 
I have an annooncement of the marriage of Miss Mae Both O^etree to Mr. Joseph A. Haaga. Jn , on Oct. 4. 1942. Congratujations, Joe and Mrs. Haaffa. 
Received a letter dated Oct. 22, 1942, from Bill O'Hare. It begins: "News is truly scarce, but here goes: 
"Harry Kcefe married Helen Neary in Boston on Sept. 19. 1942. He is still with Stone. Webster, & Co. Louts Heconi is fine and is engaged to Betty Jennings of Somerville. Mass. Is in his last year at Boston Univerrsity Law School. Has shown no change. 
**Joe Laverj- lives in South Bend with Mrs. Lavery (702 N. Hill St.) and will finish at N.D. Law School in December. Jack DeMoss and Gene Klier are still at N.D. in Metallurgy—will get their Ph.D.s soon. 
"I am presently an apprentice seaman. V-11. U.S.N.R., and am awaiting a call to active duty. I taught and studied at N.D. during last year, and am hoping to return once this 'mess' is over and done with. 
"I see Dr. Fitzgerald, now Lt. Fitzgerald, U.S.­N.R., of philosophy fame, as often as his crowded schedule x>ermits. He is presently at Harvard and enjoys his new -work although he misses the walks we used to take around St. Joseph Lake—that is, Heinle Schrenker, Jocko DeMoss, Dr. Troiano, Jae Lavery, Gene Klier and myself—practically ever>> day during the year now gone. Heinie is so busy he never writes to anyone. Should he see this perhaps he may get into action and write from his habitat. Pete Sheehan is now at Sebring. Fla." Good luck, and thanks for your letter. Bill. 
The fourth letter comes from Loa Reilly. llie letter written on 1J.9.0. stationery reads as fol­lows: 
"It has been a long time since I have reported so perhaps some of the fellows thought me *AWOL' because several months ago there appeared a note in the 'Alumnus* that I was in the Army Air Corps. I do not know how this rumor started but I want to assure everyone that I am not In the Air Corps even though since Sept. 9 I have joined the rest of you fellows in Uncle Sam's service. 
"I received a commission as ensiijn in the USNR on that date and have been placed on in­active duty to await further orders. At present, however, I am doing my bit as assistant director of the USO-NCCS Club at Sterke. Fla. This morn­ing we entertained 300 soldiers at a Communion Breakfast at which Tom Ijefa, class of '23 and present coach of the University of Florida, was the guest speaker. It was great to meet this out­standing member of our alumni, and most of his speech was about Notre Dame rather than Florida. 
"Other N.D. men 1 have met in the past "few months are Cadet Bad Thomas at the Naval Air Base. Jacksonville, Fla., with whom I have dnce lost contact; and Enslffn BIO Tndier who was also at Jacksonville. 

"My roommate and buddie, Jim Metzler, is now a lieutenant in the Marines. The last letter I had from Jim Indicated that he might be in the thick of It soon, so 1 guess by now he is 'slapping' a few slant-eyed gentlemen. Jim took unto himself a wife about five months ago, and from his tetter she is a mighty fine young lady. 
"I was happy and surprised to hear that ole 'Wassel' Piere is now a first lieutenant and a company commander. Congratulations. Frank! 
"It was swell to see a picture of Tom Tiemey in the last issue of the 'Alumnus.' I was wondering what happened to Tom. I would like to know the whereabouts of Bad Crcntner and Jim Hafnavel, if anyone knows. My address is USO-NCCS Club, Sterke, Fla." 
There is surel>' someone who knows where some of the other fellows are and I know that only Lou and myself are not the only ones interested. Let's hear from a lot more of you before the nexl issue: tell Shorty where you are and what you are doing. 
Last week Al Fnnk went through the Reception Center. I did not manage to see him. but Edmonds. *41. talked to him for a few minutes. Al went to Northwestern Law School, and I believe he gradu­ated before getting into the army. 
I A ^ I Set. John W. Patterson, Jr.. 5530 Dar-
I 9^ I linxton Rd.. Pittsborgfa, Pa. 
Alnmnl Contribators, 1942-43 

Ensign Anthony M. Bernard (additional) Youngstown, O.; Walter J. Brennan, Jr., New Rochelle, N. Y.; Walter F. Brodbeck. South Bend: Luther W. Buber. Berlin, N. H.: Warren A. Deahl. South Bend: Lieut. Eugene E. De Lay (ad­ditional) St. Paul; Harold E. Graham. South Bend; Gerald A. Hickey, South Bend: Francis J. Hopldns, Youngstown. O.; Lieut. Arthur J. Hum-by. Brookljm; Elmer J. Kamm. Mishawaka; Edwin 
W. Keleher. Philadelphia: X^sign Raymond J. Kelly, Jr.. Detroit; Lieut. Walter W. Kristoff, Chicago; Ensign Bernard A. Mago, Boston; Don-old J. Marietta, Clinton, Ind.; Lieut. Lawrence 
G. McLaughlin, Royal Oak, Mich.: Thomas P. HcManns. New York City; Joseph B. Olbrys (ad­ditional) Milwaukee: John D. O'Brien. Dajrton: Sgt John W. Patterson. Pittsburgh: David L. Rody. Waco. Tex.: Ensign Thomas E. Reilly. Rockaway Beach, N. Y.: Claude J. Schmidle. University Heights. O.; Robert M. Schulz. South Bend; lieut. Joseph P. Somers. Asplnwall. iPa.: Edward J. Sullivan, Jr.. Indianapolis: Robert M. Sweeney (additional) South Bend; Cyril J. Tlusty. South Bend; Pvt. Albert A. Vandervoort. Palo Alto, Calif.: John F. Waldron. Mishawaka: Gordon E. Weist. South Bend. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BGIt Williams is now a second lieutenant sta­tioned at Camp Wheeler, Ga. Cback Stine reports that he has been vrith the FBI since February and has been transferred to Cleveland after a six-month stay in New Haven. Conn. 
CUif BacUey has received his M*inRs as a para­trooper and is now with the 456th Parachute Field Artillery batallion at Fort Braesr. N. C. Joe Sonen, who entered the Army as a private a year. ago, has been promoted from second to first lieu­tenant. He is now stationed at Camp Polk. La. 
John Scully, who entered the Army in Septem­ber. 1941, is now a second lieutenant in the Quar­termaster Corps and is stationed at Selfridge Field. Hich. Jackie Hayes is a chief specialist in the athletic and recreational branch of the Na\T at Newport, K. I. 
Paal Kehres is a serKeant in the Army and is stationed in San Juan P. R. He reports that John Mack is a Coast Guard officer, also stationed in San Juan. 
I QA''} William E. Scanlan. 101 W. Pleasant 
I Y^ A St . Portaare. Wis. 
Aldmni Contributors, 1942-43 

Lawrence J. Aubrey. Louisville; Jones F. Cahill. Hampton, Va.; James P. Doyle. Beards-town, 111.; Pvt. Edson J. Drake, Philadelphia. N. Y.; Edward J. Griesedieck. St. Louis: Corp. Vin­cent P. Hogan. Port Angeles. Wash.; John K. Kilbane. Detroit; 'Joseph W. Knott. Ansonia. Conn.; Lieut. Archibald A. MacLeod, Gloucester, Mass.; Coleman L. McGuire. Indianapolis; An­thony A. Rinella, Schenectady. N. Y.; Lieut Ralph 
H. Simon. Vincennes, Ind.; Richard T. Whalen, Yonkers. N. Y. 
From Bill Scanlon: Greetings from a jeep in Wisconsin and Fort Sheridan. At present I'm assigned to the U. S. Army Recruiting Cavalcade, a variety of jeeps, tanks and armored cars tourtng^ more than 50 cities in Wisconsin. Minnesota and Iowa. 
At Green Bay I met Jim McFadden from Whit­ing, Ind., one of a group of guards for the Coast Guard now stationed at the docks of the Bay. Jim has been a sailor since July and is also tak­ing special courses in his spare time. Watch for him to move along the officer's trail most any time. He reported that his old roommate. Coleman McGnire, is awaiting call to V-7. 
Fond du Lac, Wis., still claims Don Goyette. and at Ironwood. Mich., I heard from nearly everyone in town that Ray Ebli had received a broken leg playing end for the Chicago Cardinals. TTie home folks were pleased with his progress and report that he can be contacted at the Suth­erland Hotel, Chicago. For those who can, drop him a line. 
Bill Ford, ex. *42. the biggest man in the his­tory of the class, was inducted into the army at Fort Sheridan late last month. He had to wait around a good bit for clothes, especially since his 320-pound. 6-feet, 6-inch frame was a novelty, even in army circles. They had him working around the Reception Center mess hall, and Pri­vate Bill lugged around barrels in both hands that usually required a couple rookies to more. Before he came to Fort Sheridan Ford had been working in Detroit. 
The last word coming this way had Bah TJMT I located at Camp McCoy in Wis. And Ed Kap­shever. ex. *42. recently won considerable praise in Chicago papers for his exploits with the Navy. via the Great Lakes. 
One week-end home I got to see Jim Rice, the red-headed phy.ed. His lightweight football team nt Reedsburg. Wis., had batted .500. He is coach of the lightweights and assistant mentor of the heavies. 
Ray Donovan, now of the University publicity bureau under Jim Armstrong, came through with a nifty bit of coverage: His comment: 
"Johnny (Snuffy) Kelley. who was married in July, is now serving with the signal corps of the Army and is stationed at Janesville. Wis. Tom Tiemey was to graduate from V-7 in October and was carded for Tower Hall at Chicago. Boh Uhl is still down at Kessler Field. Miss. The last I heard of Bocky Walters he was going to Fort Wayne. Ind.. the following week to have his physical for the draft. Joe SoUivan has applied for a com­mission in the supply corpd of the Navy and has gone home to Sheffield. 111., to await the outcome. Bob Courtney is working for the Chevrolet plant in Indianapolis. I stopped In Indianapolis when passing through one day and talked over the phone with him. Ed Snllivan (journalism major) has joined the order and is studying in a semi­nary in New York." 
Jim O'Langhlin continues his dispatches—still from the Marine Barracks. Quantico. Va.: *Vnicc Hebenstreit and Ed Buddy are both here in Can­didates Class. Had a letter from Ensign Jim O'Neal. He's stationed in his home town. St. Louis, but craves action. 
From l^lIsa, Okla.. comes a report from Jack Devlin. "I was offered a job with the Wages and Hours Division of the Labor Department to be employed in Kansas City. Mo. However, I had already been employed by the firm of Hasldns and Sells (public accountants) at Tulsa. I enjoy my work very much. Mr. and Mrs. Cart Sender have a little daughter, born at St. John's Hospital. Tulsa. Oct. 18. Carl drove for Father Boland when Father was prefect of discipline. 
I will aeon go to Notre ] for indoetrination. the Navy way. Chiilw ] has beoi dcdng well in the Navy. He is an < in the torpedo division. After a du>rt visit with his parents in Tulaa, he flew to Washington for assignment BiB Padmi didn't make the D.V,P. Was eaugfat in the draft before arrancements could be made, so he is now a private in ITnele Sammy's forces.** 
See where Geerse Sahek has made the all-atar basketball squad of collegians of the past to play the National Pro loop diampicms fran Oahkosh in Oiicago on Nov. 27. Congrats. Soap-Chipst 
Frtan a South Bend source I learn that Bmgm Bessi is working as an architect in an airplane factory in San Diego. Calif. Tern Heyer has hcen transferred to the Army headgnarters at "nunpa. Fla..—a fine place these wintry days. 
Until next time, "If it*s news—write Scoop." Now have a new Portage. Wis., address: 101 West Pleasant Street. 
Tarn FfauMran, ex. '42, has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the field artillery after completing special training at Fort Sill. Okla. 
Jalu Bladen and Ed Kiardimaa are now em­ployed in the experimental test department at the Wri^t Aeronautical Corporation in Paterson. 
N. J. Atth MaeLeed was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Coast Artillery. Anti-Aireraft Division of the Army. He is stationed at Guap Edwards. Mass. 
Jae Spahr is employed in the engineering de­partment of the Wright Aeronautical Corporation. Bad Bernard is at San F^ranciseo. He recently completed his ensign's training at Dartmouth col­lege. 
Jim Farcdl is attending the Business Adminis­tration School at Harvard University. He attendnd the Army game with about nine other from Motic Dame '42ers who are also at Harvard. Names from F^rcell upon application. 
JUDGE PEAK APPOINTED 

Superior Judge £. Elmer Peak, '12, of South Bend has been apiwinted a member of the faculty of the Law School to conduct the practice court for senior students each Saturday morning. Judge Peak succeeded Judge J. T. Hc-Goorty, of Chicago, who conducted the court for two years. 
«MMMMVMV^VWMW^MWMW^MMW^VMMW^^WV^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^'^^^^^^^^*^^^'^^^^^^^^^^^^*^^^^^^^%A^^<MN^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^A^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 
Left to right—^Matthew H. Merkle. '39, recently promoted to a captaincy, ia baM operatioB* officer at New Castle Araiy Air Base, WilminKton, Del. New officers include: Lt. John M. Brodertck, '40, Army aerial observer; Ensitn Thomas F. Reilly, ex. '42, naval aviator; Ensign Walter C. O'Meara, '41, naval aviator; Lt. Albert R. Kilarjian, ex. '39, Army aerial observer; Jobn N. Haw­ley, ex. '36, Army flyer, was recently promoted from second to 6rst lieutenant. 
JUST OFF THE PRESS 

/lit Oinfuo^Ucunt AiutJOUHJcem^ai to-/III /Huifuu! 
The University of Notre Dame on the occasion of its Centenary Celebration announces the publication of 
THE COLLECTED POEMS 
OF 

Charles L O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
Member of the Class of '06; former President of the University; distinguished educator and man of letters. 
A Limited DeLuxe Edition 
A Centenary Publication 
$2.50 Postpaid 
ORDER BLANK 

The University Press Notre Dame, Indiana Inclosed is remittance for copies of THE COLLECTED POEMS of Charles L. O'Donnell. C.S.C 
at $2.50 postpaid. 
Name.. 
Address... 
City 




