The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
16th Annual 
U. N. D. Night 
April 17 
Sacred Heart Church 
Vol. 17 MARCH-APRIL. 1939 No. 5 


Pope Pius XII is Honorary Alumnus 
The ALUMNUS is uniquely proud and pleased to prci%nt these pictures of Pope Pius XII, taken at N'otre I5ame on October 23, 19:16, u-ben the then Eu^enio Cardinal Pacelli jrraciously accepted from the University the honor* ary decree of Doctor of I^ltei-s. The pictures show the Hojy Father cnterinR: Washington Hall with Rev. James W. Donahue, CS.C.: leavinjr his car (in a heavy rain), with Most Rev. Francis 5i»eIIman, D.D.. auxiliary bishop of Boston, assistinir: with Kev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C.. on the stase of Wash­ington Hall: in prayer in the sanctuary of Sacred Heart Church. 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 75 
Edilor 

WILLIAM R . DOOLEY, 2 6 

Afartaging Eitlor 

Vol. 17 
The masazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $3,00 Include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 

MARCH-APRIL. 1939 
Men^KF of die Americaji Alumni Council 
Member of Nat1. Catholic Alumni Federation 
No. 5 

Many Activities Commemorate K. K. Roclcne 
Memorial Fieldhouse Open; Warner Brothers Plan Film of Rock's Life; Gifts Raise Total of Alumni Giv­
ing to 

Knute Eockne was killed in an air­plane crash on March 31, 1931. 
There was world tribute, then, to his genuis, and universal prediction that his work and the ideals which he symbolized would live. 
That these were not just the usual eulogies has been proved in the short eight years ensuing. 
Fieldhouse Opens on Campus 

On JIarch 1, 1939, the Rockne Me­morial Fieldhouse, erected on the Notre Dame campus at a cost approx­imating ?600,000, of which some fifty per cent will come from alumni and public subscription, was opened to the students, in part. 
The beautiful new swimming pool and the locker rooms which provide locker facilities for all students, were ready for use on that date. 
Response of the students to the fa­cilities of the pool was prompt and conclusive evidence that the claims for the Memorial, — that it would be a living memorial, that it would bring the wholesome gospel of clean, healthy bodies which Rock preached into ac­tion,— were understatements. Since the opening, a steady parade of boys from evei-y hall on the campus, fresh­man, sophomore, junior and senior, has worn already a path to the Me­morial. Boys obviously not athletic are finding in the large and modem pool a source of exercise and i-elaxa­tion which should build up the entire health program at Notre Dame. 
With the opening of the golf course awaiting only a little assurance from the coy Hoosier weather man, use of the lockers, showers and pool will in all probability be multiplied. 
Directing the Memorial, and guar­anteeing maximum titilization of its splendid facilities, is Thomas E. Mills, assistant football coach under Knute Rockne in 1927 and 1928. Mr, Mills has been on the faculty of speech of  Memorial Fund; Marker at Crash Dedicated 
the University until March 1, and was for a time in charge of dramatics. His long experience in educational work at Beloit, Notre Dame and Georgetown, his ver'satile talents in a broad program of activities, equip him admirably for his new post. Assist­ing him in the management of the Fieldhouse at the present time is Grover Malone, '20, former varsity football player, whose residence in South Bend since graduation has kept him in close touch with the Univer­sity. 
Life of Rockne in Films 

Coincident with the opening of the Memorial is the news that Warner Brothers is to film a picture tentative­ly titled "The Life of Knute Rockne," No casting has been announced, but Mrs. Rockne's consent and the cooper­ation of the University have been 
His Spirit Lives 

secured. (Continued onPage 149) 
16th UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
Notre Dame alumni throughout the world will observe the Sixteenth -An­nual Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 17. 
To alumni, little more need be said. The custom, inaugurated in 1924, of world-wide simultaneous meetings of Notre Dame men, to pay tribute to their Alma JIater, has become not only a familiar Notre Dame institu­tion, but is now known to the world at large. 
This year, again, we hope to ar­range a radio program on one of the national net\vorks. If plans material­ize, alumni will have an opportunity to hear the President of the Univer­sity, the President of the Alumni As­sociation, and numbers from the cam­pus musical organizations. The ad­dresses will probably be broadcast from a meeting of one of the active Notre Dame Clubs. 
The Association has again asked the participation of the local radio stations, particularly this year en­listing the cooperation of the Clubs. These local programs have done a great deal to bring the Night more intimately into the various Club com­munities, and the -A.lumni Ofiice is this year emphasizing this contact. 
Specific information on the national broadcast will be sent to alumni as soon as it is available. 
Speakers from the campus, and the few movies available, have been signed up well ahead this year, so that the familiar names are already in the books, but the Office will be happy to woric with any Club in arranging for a program in which a campus repre­sentative can participate. 



UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS « « 
•M'OTRE DAME SCIENTISTS have 
•'•^ added the electron, lightest of all particles pervading matter, to the list of agents capable of smashing the atom, it was disclosed here. Hitherto, radioactit'ity and the submicroscopic particles, neutrons and protons have been successfully used by scientifts in dividing the atom, once considered the smallest and the indimsible unit of matter. 
Using a weird looking apparatus, termed an electrostatic generator whose voltage strength of nearly two million is one of the most powerful in the country. Dr. George B. Collins, assistant professor of phj'sics, and his assistants, bombarded a piece of me­tallic beryllium with electrons. After the attack it was found that the atoms of berj'llium, an excessively light metal; had disintegrated into two atoms of helium gas and one neutron. 
The electron is the particle respon­sible for the passage of electric cur­rent through wires and is an essential of radio tubes. 
In the Notre Dame experiment the electrons were i-eleased in the interior of a hugh 12-foot copper sphere, top­ping a tripod formed by three insulat­ing legs, rising 20 feet from the floor of the laboratory. Once liberated in this sphere, the electrons were hurled at enormous velocities down a 25-foot glass tube, from vrhich all air had been removed. Plying through this tube the electrons, accelerated by 1,750,000 volts, struck their target at the tube's end, compelling the atoms of the beryllium metal to yield and split into two helium gas atoms and the single neutron. 
The result of the e-xperiment had been forecast by Dr. Eugen Guth, theoretical physicist at Notre Dame. Aiding Dr. Collins was Dr. Bernard Waldman, research assistant, and Mr. William Polye, graduate assistant in physics. 
One of the obstacles to overcome in conducting the experiment was the danger to which the operators of the apparatus were subject. Extremely penetrating X-rays, sufficiently potent to pass through an inch or more of lead, are produced in the course of the experiment. To avoid these rays the operators of the apparatus were forced to withdraw to a distance of 50 feet from the target. 
The generator is 'housed in a huge laboratory, 40' x 40' hy 40' in size. Its construction required a period of nearly two years. A belt reaches 35 feet from one end of the laboratory upwards to the middle of the copper sphere atop the tripod of insulating legs. This belt acts as the carrier of negative electrons destined for the accelerating tube. 
The experiment with the electrons is a part of a physics research pro­gram at Notre Dame which embraces the study of atomic disintegration. X-rays, and artificial radioactive sub­stances. 
The technical paper describing the experiment appeared in a recent issue of The Physical Review. 
TNDIANA AUTOMOBILES are •*• wearing the gold and blue of Notre Dame on their license plates this year after the state universities, Indiana and Purdue, have been recognized in the years just previous. At the direction of Frank J. Finney, state commissioner of motor vehicles, the license "1842" was this year granted to the University's official car in recognition of the approaching cen­tennial. 
QN E "DICK WALSH," posing as a ^ former Notre Dame student sadly in need of money, has victimized sev­eral staunch N.D. men in Chicago with his solicitations for subscriptions to an alleged "Outdoorsman" maga­zine as a representative of Christy Walsh. There is no such "Dick Walsh," the records show no "Outdoorsman" magazine and Christy Walsh has no such solicitors. .4gain, beware! Re­peated ALUMNUS advice is to ignore magazine solicitors with a "Notre Dame story." 
pONSIDERATION OF GOD as the ^ real font of American political and individual rights is the theme of a new text-book on civics and govern­ment announced by Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, Notre Dame professor of law. 
The book, "Lessons in Liberty," is 
PLACEMENT NOTE 
The Department of Architecture receives many requests for recom­mendations of graduates suitable for various types of ofHce work such as designers, engineers and mechanical equipment designers. If graduates in architecture wish to change their present employ­ment they are asked to send their names to the Placement Bureau, Alumni Office. 

designed for the use of students of the junior high school level and will be published by the Notre Dame • Press. It will be ready for use in Catholic school classrooms this fall. 
Publication of the book was pre­cipitated by a nationwide demand from Catholic educators as a result of a Commencement address Professor Manion gave at the conclusion of Notre Dame's summer school session last August. Professor Manion, noted throughout the country as an elo­quent speaker, frankly told the as­sembled educators that they were "mistaken" in their approach to the teaching of American civics. Educa­tors tend, he said, to emphasize the "forms" governments take, while ig­noring all the important "principles" from which the "forms" derive their vitalizing spark. The speech, later distributed in pamphlet form under the title "God and Government," forms the nucleus of the new text. 
The Manion approach to the study of civics is vigorous yet clear in its simplicity. He simplifies theories of go\-emment by stripping them of ver­bose complexities and reducing them to terms which the adolescent mind may readily understand. 
JOHN JOSEPH CRONIN, graduate ** of Boston College, became a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty with the beginning of the second semester. He is supervisor of field work in the graduate curriculum of sociology. Mr. Cronin did graduate work in Simmons Social Research, Boston. At the Uni­versity of Chicago he did additional graduate work and was a research assistant. 
A CTIVITIES of the Alumni Office 

• ^ Placement Bureau were stepped up with the beginning of the second semester in an attempt to care for the men to be graduated in June. Place­ment application blanks were filled out by seniors desirous of employment help and these have been carefully classified and made easily available for reference. 
Personnel represetatives are visit­ing the campus weekly to interview groups of prospective employes among the seniors. The Placement Bureau is happy to welcome such representa­tives and it is attempting to increase their number. The cooperation of alumni in this direction is especially desirable. Suggestions should be made to the Placement Bureau at once. 
Catholicity in South America 
By REV. JOHN F. O'HARA. C S. C President of the University 
(Father O'Hara was a United States delegate to the recent Pan-American conference in Lima, Peru. When he returned to New York he was the guest at a dinner in the Centre Club. His address upon that occasion the ALUMNUS is privileged to print here.—Eds.) 
There is little I could say about the Linia Conference that would be news to you. The excellent statements is­sued by our Secretary of State and by the Director of the Pan-American Union, when they returned from Lima a month ago, expressed very accur­ately the sentiments of the American delegates, and I believe of the other delegates as well. Veterans of these meetings constantly remarked on the harmony of spirit that marked the Conference from the beginning. An amazing amount of work was done in a relatively short time—and work is necessary when formulas are to be found to express with accuracy the common thought of 21 nations on problems that are common to all of them. 
Tribute to Hull 
The American nation owes a debt of thanks to Secretary Hull for the kindness and patience which marked his direction of the American par­ticipation in the Conference. Many Latin-American statesmen have re­marked to me that the personal in­fluence of Secretary Hull, more than any other factor, is responsible for the candor, the kindness, and the dis­patch which have marked the pro­ceedings of these Inter-American con­ferences. 
Perhaps it will be of most interest to you to hear something about the private mission which kept me in South America a month after the re­turn of the other members of the American delegation. While this mis­sion was connected somewhat directly OTth the work to which I was as­signed in the Committee of Intellect­ual Cooperation, it was principally with only one phase of that work, and its primary object was the develop­ment of our own University. I ara happy to say, however, that I fre­quently found occasions to -discuss with representative members of the hierarchy and of the laity the general situation of Catholic education and other Catholic activities in the United States. 
Nineteen years ago I was sent to South America by Father Bums, then President of the University of Notre Dame, to investigate the possibility of effecting an exchange of students between our institution and certain universities of South America. The idea was well-received and went into operation immediately. In the fall of 1920 two young Americans, who had received their degrees from Notre Dame in June of that year, went to South America to continue their stud­ies. John Balfe, one of the active members of your Centre Club, en­
tered the University of Buenos Aii-es. John Powers, now a busi­ness man in Cleveland, took up ad­vanced studies at the University of Santiago, in Chile. This arrangement was short-lived, however. The finan­cial crisis, world-ivide, so lowered the currency of the South American coun­tries in terms of the dollar that it was soon necessary for a South American to pay from three to six times the normal rate for dollar exchange. Al­though this is not a discussion of in­ternational banking, for those of you who are interested in problems of foreign exchange, I might say, by way of parenthesis, that one of the largest factors in the reduction on these monies in terms of the dollar was the action of England in paying debts to the United States through credits she had in South America. This is the age-old process known as arbitrage in exchange, and in our financial relations with our friends in South America, arbitrage, more often than so-called unfavorable trade bal­ances, has worked to the disadvantage of the South American who would buy from us or who would educate his children in American schools. Thus far the parenthesis. 
Currency Responsible 
I was happy to find that the dis­advantageous position of South Amer­ican currency was wholly responsible for the falling off In the attendance of South American students at col­leges and imiversities in the United States. Where 20 years ago they came by hundreds, now they come by tens —and there are not many tens. If anything there is an increased desire on the part of South American par­ents to send their children, especially 
the boys, to the United States for an 
education. The study of EngUsh is 
far more general than it was 20 or 
30 years ago. There is ,an earnest 
plea for the establishment by Ameri­
can religious orders of schools in which American programs of stud­ies ^vill be taught in English. lima and Kio de Janeiro have such schools —for girls. In Lima the Marist Brothers plan to open a school fcr boys this year. They are welcomed by the ecclesiastical authorities, hy the civil rulers, and by the Catholic parents. 
There were urgent pleas for schol­arships, and the suggestion was of­fered that a fund be set up by some foundation, that would equalize the exchange disadvantage. At the Buen­os Aires Peace Conference of three years ago, a treaty was adopted for the exchange of professors and stu­dents by the various American Be-publics. Ten nations have ratified this treaty and our own State Department has provided in its budget for presen­tatira to the current Congress of an item that iviU enable us to fulfill our part of this agreement. 
Catholic Intellectual Movement 
However, the matter of scholar­ships, while important, was a matter of minor consideration to me person­ally. Its application, so far as the University of Notre Dame was con­cerned, centered on a particular de­velopment of Catholic life and Cath­olic thought. It was especially inter­ested in discovering to what extent the Catholic intellectual movement in France, England, and other European countries, and in the United States, had found an echo in South America. 
I do not want to seem critical of the good Catholic people of South America, whom I have known for more than 30 years. The restrictions I may seem to place on them are no more than the criticisms that many of us have offered in our discussion of the intellectual life of Catholics in this country. And I have heard Fath­er Martindale in a sermon in Farm street, accuse the English Catholics of a similar apathy to the cultivation of the Gifts of the Holy Ghost. 
Perhaps the description of the less abundant Catholic life of our South American neighbors can best be given in the words of one of their own priests. In the New Year's number of Criteria, an Argentine Catholic weekly, the editor, Msgr. Franceschi, describes brilliantly the Catholic re­vival in the River Plate region. His theme is that there was no middle age in the Catholicism of Argentine and Uruguay—and what he says may be applied with due reservations to the other Latin-American countries. He shows, by an historical summary, that there was a violent leap from a col­onial conservatism to a dynamic re­ligious mentality that is the most active spiritual force to be observed among his people today—and he uses the word "spiritual," not in the re­ligious, but in the broader reference to things of the mind. 

Msgr. Franceschi recalls that in his boyhood there were broadly two kinds of Catholics—^the sentimentalists and the fonnalists. The sentimentalists fed their emotions on the elaborate ritual of the Spanish Church; the for­malists were quite correct in deport­ment, but they flirted with the ideas of liberalism, and offset their ignor­ance of Catholic doctrine by defend­ing the Church as the conservator of the established order. 
Priests Too Fe>v 
Priests were entirely too few for the needs of the country—they are today. Parishes were even fewer in proportion than were priests. Through colonial times, for 300 years, there was no direct communication bet\veen Rome and the bishops of South Amer­ica; everything had to pass through Spain, where the royal patronage de­termined the needs of the faithful, thousands of miles away. A royal censor settled whether it was useful to promulgate in America a papal degree which to the censor's mind had no bearing on American life. 
When the royal power passed away in the violence of the wars of inde­pendence the new Republics assumed the powers which had been exercised by the Crown, and much priestly zeal was "stifled by hostile or imprudent governments. In such an atmosphere it was not diiflcult for the ideas of liberalism to gain ascendancy and re­tard the vitality of the Catholic Church, and until the World War wnped out the philosophy of liberal­ism, by showing its complete inad­equacy, the Church had no real chance. 
This should not be understood to mean that there was a complete ab­sence of intellectual life among Cath­olics. No, some brilliant Catholic scholars were developed, but they were not in any proportion to the needs of their respective countries. One verj' successful Catholic Univer­sity was formed in Cliile, but even this fine work received no official rec­ognition, and no validity of credits or degrees until very recently. There were some of those brilliant men and brilliant works that adversity can produce, but the ground in general was stony, and many a sprout with­ered away for lack of nourishment. 
The bankruptcy of liberalism was world-wide. We Catholics of the United States have been brought to a realization of the wealth of our own philosophical thought, partly by the earnest quest of non-Catholics for an organic system of thought that will correspond to all the needs of life. President Hutchins, Professor Adler, the editors and contributors to the .Imen'caii Review, these and many other men of inquiring mind have sought in Catholic philosophy, if not in Catholic theology, the ansiver to social and political problems. 
Alumni Reunion 
Evidence of a sb-ong Catholic in­tellectual revival in South America first came to my notice at Lima. On the 8th of December there w^as held a reunion of alumni of Jesuit col­leges. Professor Fenwick and I were very happy to find ourselves in the midst of a group of brilliant men, who represented with great distinc­tion many American Republics. Among them were scholars who were very thoroughly in touch with the best Catholic ivritings of today; many of them, I learned, were members of Catholic intellectual groups in their respective countries. 
While the work of the Conference did not pejTnit of group meetings with the Catholic scholars of Peru, I was more fortunate in Buenos Aires and Montevideo. In Buenos Aires I vis­ited the institutes that have been established for both men and women; in Montevideo I had a very interest­ing evening ^Wth a gi'oup of Catholic lajTnen, both thinkers and men of action. Parenthetically, I had to apol­ogize to this group when I learned that one of their number had just gone to France to secure the services of Professor Yves Simon as director of their studies in Scholastic philoso­phy. I had to tell them that Yves Simon has transferred his allegiance from Lille to Notre Dame. I added that they must come to Notre Dame also to find their much-esteemed lit­eraiy critic, Charles Du Bos, and that we have recently had Jacques Mari­tain. They are still devoted to Mar­itain, who gave them a series of lec­tures a year or two ago, and they still follow him in philosophy, though not in Spanish politics. Not all of these men were familiar with the work of Waldemar Gurian, but some of them were, and now that the first number of his Revieio of Politics has been issued, I am sure that he will be followed with great interest by the Catholic groups in South America. 
I met at Lima the first member 
of the Buenos Aires group. He was Juan Carlos Goyeneche, son of the Intendente of Buenos Aires, and a secretary attached to the Argentine delegation. He was a student at the University of Buenos Aires, as well as at the Catholic Institute. I found that he and some companions have been translating Chesterton and Bel­loc, among others, that they have published several excellent Catholic books at their own expense, and that they had recently launched a literary magazine Sol y Luna—dedicated to Christus Sol Justiae and Maria, Pul­chra ut Luna. Juan Carlos, with a mind for philosophy, and particularly medieval philosophy, planned to go to Europe to satisfy his desire for higher . Catholic learning. He was offered a scholarship at Notre Dame, and he hopes to be with us in September. I have asked Catholic leaders in Peru, Chile, Uruguay, and Brazil to find young men of similar talent and in­clinations in their own countries, to be candidates for similar scholarships at Notre Dame. I feel that the com­panionship of these young men will be stimulating to the American stu­dents at the University. I am sure that on their return to their home countries, they will bring something from the Catholic life of Americans that will help their bishops and their laj' leaders in the struggle to form an intelligent and zealous Catholic 
citizen. 
Today's Advances 
I have given you Msgr. Franceschi's description of the Catholic lassitude of the previous generation. I should not leave the subject without quoting his tribute to the Catholicity of today. After protesting that there is still much to be done, he remarks: "We are far from the vacuity and the help­lessness of the past century: we are preparing the elite that we used to talk about, and in this task the out­standing agency is Catholic Action, which today seems more and more to be the institution adapted to the days of gi'eat crisis. There is among us a Catholic Action mentality, a Catho­iict Action type of young man and woman; their charactei-istics are an intense and intelligent piety, a defi­nite opposition to the paganizing at­mosphere in which they live, a desire for the spiritual apostolate, an opti­mistic hope that beyond the ruins which they must surmount they will find a new Christianity, a flowering of the Christian principles in a new type of culture, a new coordination of the Christian forces in the world. This elite has in it nothing inert, nothing conservative; it works after the manner of leaven, it sheds no tears over a vanishing past, it does not seal itself within any social class, it is possessed of a spirit which adapts 
(Continued on Page 153) 

The Name Is Familiar, But / / 
Sometimes You Can't Place the Face; That's Because the Second and Third Generations of Notre Dame Men Are Dotting the N.D. Roster 
Nothing pays tribute to Notre Dame, and nothing ivill cement Notre Dame to its past and to its future, like the enrollment of the sons of Notre Dame men who have gone be­fore. Quick expansion has made this phenomenon begin only now to grow rapidly. But from the following rec­ord of the school year 1938-39,"it is obvious that the ivy is beginning to twine about our walls, and the fa­mous poem of Stu Carroll's about the 'younger brothers' must give place to the sons of the men you used to know. 
(N.B. The ALUJIN-US hopes that the following list is complete. We have checked all possible sources, and have asked the boys themselves to notify us of Notre Dame fathers or grand­fathers. We shall be happy to have any additions or corrections.) 
BERGAN — Joseph Anthony, Sci­ence freshman, is the son of the late William N. Bergan, member of a fam­ily long connected with Notre Dame activities throug h attendance and South Bend proximity. 
BERGMAN—Alfred H., Commerce sophomore, brings back the glory of his dad, "Big Dutch," of the famous Peru, Indiana, Bergmans. Two uncles also paved the way at N.D. for the present representati%'e. 
BROUSSARD —Joseph E. Engi­neering sophomore, also brings to mind a lot of history besides just that of his dad, Clyde E., of Beaumont, Texas. Girls and boys, and marriages, have the Broussards and N.D. and St. Mary's all bound round. 
BURNS —Hugh L., Phy. Ed. 4, Michigan City, is the son of William 
P. Burns, and a nephew of the Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C., former pres­ident of the University. 
CENTLIVRE — Robert E., Com­merce sophomore, Is another of those names common not only to Carl Cent­livre. Fort Wayne, his Dad, but to numerous other family members. 
COQUILLARD—Alexis, Commerce junior. Alexis Coquillard was the first name written on the student register at Notre Dame almost 100 years ago. It is a rare and inspiring thing for the University that the same name in the person of the grandson of that first student, as it did in the person of his father, is as new, as well as as old, as Notre Dame. 
COTTER —William E., Commerce sophomore, is the son of last year's president of the Alumni Association, and between his prominent father and his mother, equally illustrious St. Mary's alumna, treads fainiliar ground hereabouts. 
CRUMLEY—Thomas, Engineering sophomore, the son of Harry Crum­ley of Cincinnati, probably gets more reaction from his uncle and name­sake, Father Thomas Cmmley, who created mixed awe and admiration in most N.D. logicians. 
GUSHING—Gregoi-y P., Engineer­ing senior, has the happy distinction of completing his academic work in the building given to Notre Dame by his illustrious father, the late John 
F. Gushing, C.E., '06. Other brothers have also also finished at Notre Dame. 
DEVINE — Sam Deeper, Law jun­ior, brings back to the campus mem­ories of his father, the late John "Diwy" Devine, famous athlete, and also of his mother's family, the Leep­ers. South Bend pioneers and neigh­bors of N.D. 
DOLAN — Samuel M., Commerce sophomore, bring s from Oregon, echoes of the prowess of his father, "Rosy" Dolan, who was metamor­phosed from brilliant athlete to bril­liant professor. Public please note. 
DUBBS—John W., A.B. senior, and Joseph A., A.B. junior, Mendota, Illi­nois, are sons of John W. Dubbs, who was himself one of a Dubbs combina­tion when he was at N.D. 
EICHENLAUB—^Ray J., Commerce freshman, Columbus, Ohio, brings back to the roster not only a name which has lasted in athletic archives, but which is equally prominent and valued in alumni activities. 
FARABAUGH — David F., Com­merce freshman, also comes with a name that has won all kinds of N.D. spurs, baseball, debating, teaching under Col. Hoynes, and, of late, dis­tinction as legal representative of the University. 
FERNEDING—John C. and Thom­as C, -1.6. juniors, sons of Judge Henry Femeding of Dayton, are proof that the public is right, alumni often see double. The boys are twins, and a handsome set if we may say so. 
FIGEL — Donald J., Commerce freshman, is the son of Ed Pigel, long prominent in the Chicago Club. Don represents N.D. spirit, one of eleven young Pigels, who have never kept Ed and N.D. very far apart. 
FINNERAN—Patrick J., Engineer­ing sophomore, and Thomas C, Engi­neering freshman, are sons of F. X. Finneran, formerl y of Columbus, Ohio, now a part of Notre Dame it­self, the boys commuting down a familiar Eddy Street.. 
FLYNN—Robert P., Science fresh­man, is the son of Dr. J. A. Flynn, Washington, D. C, former president of the District of Columbia alumni. 
HARTZER — Joseph F., Law first year, is the son of the late Joe Hart­zer of South Bend, another of the familiar family names so intimately wound into the history of Notre Dame and the neighboring community. 
HAYES — Jerome Byron, A.B. freshman, brings back not only a fa­miliar name in N.D. in any year, but a name long since made famous here, his father, C. Byron Hayes, Fort Wayne attorney, and other members of the same family. 
HEBENSTREIT — Bruce A.. Com­merce sophomore, is back with a real bang, with a familiar name in South­western alumni history. Bruce has been doing some high class boxing at N.D., Bengal Bouts and Golden Gloves. 
HEEKIN—Walter J., A.B. fresh­man, brings another echo from the Ohio Valley, where the HeeWns of Cincinnati have long been associated with N.D., including Walter J., Sr. 
HICKEY—Gerald A., Engineering sophomore, is another son of Thomas Hickey, builder of the University In­firmary and other N.D. projects. Tom has practically lived on the campus and the boys are following respected footsteps. 
HILGARTNER — Daniel E., Jr., Commerce freshman, is a name to conjure with. Hardly a Commence­ment, hardly a football banquet, hardly a game, hardly an event of any importance, that Daniel E. Sr., • has not attended ever since 1917, Small wonder that impatience was finally rewarded and young D.E. is at last resident' on this end of the well worn trail. 
(Continued next month.) 

CAMPUS NOTES 
FOR THE FLAG 
The traditional Washington Day exercises went off in the most ap­proved fashion last February 22. Some five hundred-odd seniors donned caps and gowns to walk down the steps of the Main Building for the first time. After battling the snow drifts on the road to Washington Hall they relaxed to hear Claude Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa, give the Oi^a­tion: "Washington and the Rights of Man." 
William Donnelly, Queens Village, New York, (track man. Scholastic's "Week," and poet extraordinary) read the Washington Day Ode: "The Power." Class president Richard O'Melia, Eliinelander, Wisconsin, made the speech of presentation, and Father Miltner, dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, accepted the flag on behalf of the University. 
SHARPS AND FLATS 
On Februaiy 6, 1939, at 8:15 p.m. Mr. Jack Collins, Brooklyn, New York, parted the curtains on what he play­fully termed his "Music Fest." This was a program presented downtown by some students of the Music De­partment who sang and played for the applause (and the fifty cents) of the assembled music-lovers. But hid­den in the group was one whose mystic soul was offended; he was Robert B. Heywood, New Richmond, Wisconsin. Now Mr. Heywood is a soloist with the Glee Club and a stu­dent of the arts and, as such, was invited by William Mooney, Waverly, Iowa, one of the musicians, to write the rei>iew for the Scholastic. Mr. Heywood did. 
Such furor and turmoil has seldom been seen over any single article found in the Scholastic. The critic found the program "well performed, but.. . poorly chosen." In general, it was a "although-well-done-it-was-ter­rible" reWew. 
Then came the Scholastic of Feb­ruary 24 and in it, under a complex head entitled "Sharps and Flats," two letters: one from Robert Connolly, Grand Rapids, Jlichigan, who did not like Mr. Heywood's review and in no uncertain terms said so, the other was Mr. Heywood's defense and he did not like Mr. Connolly's letter and likewise said so. 
As yet no duels have been fought but we note impressario Collins has heard the jingle of cold cash and is 

 ByVINCENTW.DeCOURSEy.-a? 
plotting another "Music Fest" so that the whole school and most of South Bend can find out which critic was right—at seventj'-five cents per head. 
JITTERBUG JUNIORS 
Jerry FljTin, Rochester, New York, and Robert Sullivan, Helena, Mon­tana, chairman and president, respec­tively, led some 325 couples in the grand march of the Junior Prom at the good old Palais, February 17, A good time was had by all, includ­ing John StarWe, Topeka, Kansas, Dome photographer, who got. in free to go around shooting off flashlight bulbs. 
Will Osborne's orchestra furnished the music. He was voted a "little bit of all right" by the couples who had paid five dollars apiece to dance to him. Most of those who attended the public dance the next Saturday night at the Palais thought so too. 
DEBATERS COME CLOSE 
At the Manchester Debate Tourna­ment, North Manchester, Indiana, some 238 teams from 70 schools argued and argued over whether or not the gov­ernment should continue to spend money to get the country of the de­pression. Notre Dame men taking part in the wrangle were: Al Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin, and Frank Fitch, Cherokee, Iowa, (which team won six out of six debates); Frank Parks, Rice Lake, Wisconsin, and Milt Williams, Elkhart, Indiana, tak­ing three out of six. In the "B" team debates, Frank Wintermeyer, Kitch­ener, Ontario, and Jeny FIjTin, Roch­ester, New York; Tom Grady, Farmer City, Illinois, and William Meier, Faulkton, South Dakota, took the same number of debates, four out of five. 
The "A" team placed second to Ashbury College, which won ten to Notre Dame's nine. 
JOTTINGS The Bookmen, campus organization of those who have read a book they didn't understand, recently initiated two new members; they are Al Cal­lan, Newark, New Jersey, and Bill DeCoursey (the kid brother), Kansas City, Kansas. . . . The Commerce Forum junket to Chicago is sched­uled to take place sometime this month according to Chief Navigator Ray Schleck, South Iffilwaukee, Wis­consin. . . . "The Queen's Husband," by Robert Sherwood, will be the next 
presentation of the University Thea­
tre; dates March 22-23; principals 
unrevealed. . . . Scrip, illustrated by 
a couple of full page drawings by 
John Webster, Lakeland, Florida, 
came out for the second time . . . 
Charles Nelson, Decatur, Illinois, and 
Frank Cunningham, Oak Park, Illi­
nois, contributed well done story and 
criticism respectively. . , . Vincentian 
officers installed early this month are 
President John Reddy, Brooklyn, New 
York, Vice-presidents Joseph Mul­
queen. Council Bluffs, Iowa, and John 
Reed, Fort Wayne, Indiana. . . . Red­
man Duggan, graduate student from 
Durango, Colorado, is new director 
of the radio thrillers presented by the 
Academy of Politics. . . . Typical bal­
lyhoo is being pushed by Louis Da-
Pra, East Chicago, Indiana, promoter 
for the annual Bengal Bouts to be 
held March 24. The Mystery Element 
(some fellow called "?') has promised 
to strangle "Killer" Paul Kell, Niles, 
Michigan, who last year overcame Joe 
"One Horse" Race to become King of 
the "Bouncing Bengaleers." 
SPLASH 
After the first body had been well dunked in the waters of the Rockne Memorial pool, cynical seniors who had waited four years for the splash were finally convinced that the rumor of the building had become a reality. Handball and squash courts, and the pool are the only things open as yet, and not a single complaint has been heard so far about a single phase of the layout. 
Arrangement of lockers, showers, suit and towel room, all seem just about perfect. Biggest fear to date has been that there might be regula­tions coming up to make it less coun­try-club like. But so far there has been not even a hint of such action. 
Patronage has been unbelievable; it seemed as though the whole student body camped along the pool walls on the opening day and from the bleach­ers above an occasional glimpse of cool-looking water could be obtained through the acres of bare flesh. And with the size of the tank suits, there was plenty of flesh per person in sight. 
V 
CLASSMATES 
Juniors and seniors on the campus are remembering on October, 1936, when they stood a couple of hours in the rain waiting for the appearance of one Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli. It was with somewhat of a shock that they realized they were now fellow alunuii of the Pope. 
-With the president of the United States and the head of the Catholic Church as schoolmates, the boys are just waiting till "the kid from Har­vard opens his mouth." 

March-April, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Faculty Member in the Community 
By BVRON V. KANALEy, '04 President of the Board of Lay Trustees 
(Mr. Kanaley's paper, the complete title of which was "The Faculty Member as a Cultural Force in the Community" xcas read on January 12 in Louisville before a meeting of the Association of American Colleges. Its printing here is in response to re­quests from those loho were fortunate enough to hear it or read it.-^Eds.) 
The only sense in which I feel at home this momfnff is that I am in the country of my wife's people. I take those beautiful words from the Book of Ruth, "Your people shall be my people"; for nearly a century ago Mrs. Kanaley's grandfather, James Stephens Speed, a distinguished citi­zen of Kentucky, served three terms as the Mayor of this hospitable city to which we were so sincerely welcomed a few moments ago by Dr. Kent. To the Speed family has been credited, I believe by Abraham Lincoln, in great measure, the saving of Kentucky to the Union. He made James Speed attorney general in his cabinet. I only mention this in passing because if one is to believe certain sections of the political press commenting on the State of the Union today the saving of the nation was of rather dubious value and it will have to be saved all over again. The point of view de­pends on your understanding and in­terpretation of the letters of the alphabet when placed in certain com­binations. So even the perpetuation of our form of government would ap­pear to depend on education—which is synonymous with culture—depends apparently on so simple a thing as understanding the alphabet, and I rather suspect there are in this dis­tinguished group as many opinions on that as there are on what is culture. 
Sir John Speed 

I note on the program the name of the distinguished Provost of Oriel College, Oxford, Sir David Ross, and since he may feel in this gathering somewhat of a stranger territorially, as I do intellectually, it will be a fur­ther band between him and me to know that a lineal ancestor was Sir John Speed, the English historian, whose works constitute, what Sir David undoubtedly knows, a reliable reference on the times of Mary and Elizabeth. 
The average family of a college graduate, I recently read, is three. Historian Speed left eighteen chil­dren, twelve of them boys who were educated at Oxford, according to family chronicles, one of whom. Dr. John Speed presented two skeletons (I trust they were not family ones) to the Library of St. John's College, Oxford. I looked for them last time I was there, but they apparently have gone the way of all flesh. He, him­self, was buried in 1640 in the chapel of St. John's. 
Business Men and College 

I was rather in doubt as to what a Trustee, who was not an academician, could contribute to a symposium of this nature. I was heartened by an editorial appearing recently in the Chicago Tribune concerning an ex­ceptionally able paper read by Dr. Franklyn Snyder, Dean of Faculties of Northwestern University, before the American Association of Univer­sity Professors on Dec. 27,1938. This editorial states that "To assert that the business men on the Boards of American Colleges and Universities actually contribute importantly with­in the fields of educational policy will no doubt be taken for mischievous heresy," and it continues, "but why should it be? There are many techni­cal questions of education with which the business man, lawyer, banker or other layman is not prepared to deal advisedly, and we doubt if he has any ^^^sh to touch them. But education, after all, deals with human life and men who have had much experience in human activity may bring some­thing of value to the consideration of general questions of educational pol­icy. It continues, "most of these lay­men are after all college men. They have gone through the process of edu­cation and if it has not fitted them to think usefully on that process and its objectives there is something radi­cally wrong with education. Educa­tion, even what is called higher edu­cation, ought to be more than a spe­cial training. It ought to be, and we think primarily, a training and disci­pline in the use of the mind, a prepa­ration in some substantial measure for useful living, and to this surely the adult man and woman can profit­ably contribute." 
What is culture? The dictionary 

gives it precisely the same definition as education, namely a cultivation and improvement of the mental or moral poweirs. 
I sought light on what culture means where the light presumably is, and for all I know where it really is, in the offices of our educators. I found that the interpretation and meaning of culture varied according to the educational work of the person addressed, whether it be science, the classics, the languages, history, col­lege administration or what. 
One definition quoted me was that "culture is the ability to assume a correct attitude toward lines of hu­man • endeavour." I asked what was meant by "correct attitude" and was told, "I don't know, let the National Association settle that one." 
One eminent, but rather gloomy authority on biology, who specializes in physiology and anatomy, told me that until the human. race learned proper breathing and posture there could be no sound culture—^that most of the miasmatic thinking and educa­tional processes were due, in his opin­ion, to lack of fresh air and exercise —that the culture generated by a run-down condition was a distinctly different and inferior culture than that generated by those who look on life in hope and happiness and peace of mind. Upon reflection, maybe there is something to think about in that. 
Classroom Development 

The first and most immediate op­portunity for a faculty member to become a vital cultural force subse­quently on the community is in his own classroom. This is an opportun­ity that I am afraid is too seldom grasped. The fault, however, does not lie entirely with the faculty mem­ber. Frequently colleges insist upon imparting to students so many mate­rial facts that there is insufficient time, and I may say, perhaps insuffi­cient room, left for the development of attitudes toward these facts. 
Faculty members, and the colleges and universities, recognizing a mu­tual obligation between themselves and the community at large are con­stantly attempting to increase their 
The Notre Dame Alumnus March-April, 1939 
influence in the cultural activities of the conmiunity. 
The faculty of my University are making a cultural contribution, I think, to the community at large through the research work Nieuw­land did in synthetic rubber, Eeyniers is doing in germs, Mahin in the Bes­semer process, Collins in electrons, Canon Le Maitre in the theory of the expanding universe, Menger in pure mathematics, Haas in astral physics, Miltner in philosophy, Gurian, Her-mens, Desmond Fitzgerald and Chris­topher Hollis in social, political and economic research. 
There are so many fields in which the facult}' members can be a cultural force in the community — civic im­provement, politics, advancement of the arts, social issues, adult educa­tion, to mention a few—and move­ments like the Universitj' of Chicago Round Table to which I shall refer later, the educational radio program, from Notre Dame, the Musical Festi­val at Northwestern, America's Town Meeting to which I shall also refer later, and a host of others. 
Working Among the Masses 
I have come to the conclusion that in my opinion the great work of the faculty member as a cultural force in the community lies not in that part of the communitj' among whom facul­tj' members would naturally move, but in that larger, and to my mind more important gi-oup, the rank and file of our people. The real good to be done, it seems to me, is -mth the larger community who are seeking education, or culture if you so desire to name it, who want it and are will­ing to take it. 
This larger community is today a more or less unconscious victim of manj"^ who are working solely for their orni interests, often not com­mendable interests, and this field of­fers the faculty an opportunity to do a real service to the community and the countiy by giWng them some sound principles and solid judgments. But in this they must know how to get the crowd. 
It is the community to which the President of the United States ad­dresses himself in Ms fireside chats; to which the congi-essman sends his speeches; for which the Charlie Mc­Carthys and Bing Crosbys make en­tertainment. It is that large commun­ity which elects Judges and Governors and Senators and Mayors; which de­feated President Wilson's League of Nations, and kept us out of the "World Court; in a word, that group which forms what is called American public opinion. What cultural force might a faculty member exert upon that community? For it is that group to 
•which propagandists of every sort and the salesman of every material, moi-al, and intellectual product, ap­peals. 
In thinking over this problem, one must consider chiefly not the limits of the facultj^'s power of giving, but rather the limits of the community in receiving. The ordinary community in our American democracy has been subjected to a long course of train­ing, which, for the most part, has been artificial on the surface, and largely devoid of principles. It has been an appeal to feeling rather than to in­tellect. Its teachers have been spell­binders of all sorts, book-reviewers of varjing intelligence, radio commenta­tors of varjing degrees of candor, Chautauqua lecturers, and drawing room gossip, which in turn are often fed and controlled by ulterior in­terests. 
Culture In Elementary Sense 
As regards culture, the ordinaiy city and town community is much like sheep without a shepherd, or rather like sheep with many shepherds who are hirelings, herding them for selfish or mercenary reasons. So when we speak of cultural influence, it seems to me we think of culture in a broad and elementary sense, a help in dis­cerning what is genuine and why in intellectual and moral life, as against the hokum and bathos and outright counterfeit which is too often offered. If it is possible to offer this, it will make for a decidedly improved de­mocracy, and a public opinion that is something moi-e than the noisj' echo of agitators. 
But perhaps I underestimate the cultural level of the communities of our towns and cities. The other day I picked up a small volume—a book of directions—^for prospective script writers, and on one of the earlier pages I found this bit of advice: "Be­member that your radio audience, in the mass, has a mental age of about fourteen." And I am told that the men who write advertising copy for national distribution have in mind for articles for mass consumption, an av­erage intelligence not above that which the radio script wTiter address­es. If this appi-aisal is correct, and it means dollai-s and cents to the men w^ho write ads and radio scripts to be correct, it explains what has often seemed to me an obvious fact, that many men and women select their reading, art and politics much as they select a new hat or an electric razor. Someone creates its design, floods the store counters with it, glorifies it through the magazine or over the latest song hit, and thousands buy it as the most artistic quality on the market. 
A book becomes popular in the same way. Someone gets it published, a reviewer or critic or news commen­tator sets it on its way, and our table talk does the rest. These fabulous sales are no guarantee of quality; they are frequently but a statistic for publishers. The classics, of course, have eventually become best sellers, but only over a long period of time. The best sellers of last year has a popularity only less fleeting than the popular song; and by the time one is able to whistle the tune of that, the orchesti-a and singer who introduced 
it have abandoned it. 
"Where are the songs of yester­day?" sang the vagabond poet of France. Who knows? And when one thinks of the words w^hich the pub-Ushers dignify with the term "lyric" —who cares? And yet week after week by the better orchestras are heard Beethoven and Mozart, Grieg and the living Sebelius, and even Von Suppe's "Poet and Feasant" which the college orchestras used to execute a quarter centiy ago; and always with delight by great numbers of our people. 
"Anthony Adverse" and "Gone with the Wind" have at long last dis­appeared from our table talk; but a year ago, to confess that you had not read them was like acknowledging that you could not do the Lambeth Walk, or had asked some measure of obedience and respect from your chil­dren. One critic gave as the reason for the large sale of these volumes, their bulk. It was a feat to have read thrm, like climbing Pike's Peak or doing 72 holes of golf from sun-up to sun-down. And yet when Alexander WooUcott makes a selection of read­ings which he considers worth while —and I'm inclined to respect his taste and judgment—^I don't believe he has what we would call a "best seller" among them; but I find the story of a dog by Richard Harding Davis, Ian MacLaren's' delightful Scotch story of a Doctor of the Old School, or James Barrie's wonderful tribute to his mother, "Margaret Ogilvj'." 
Appetite for the Mediocre 
I would be curious to know how many of those who glowed over An­thony Adverse and Scarlett O'Hara could recall w^ith pleasure. Doctor MacLure and his dour patients of Drumtocht}', or the delightful old mother with the soft face who fought so bravely the temptation to read Stevenson for fear of disloyalty to her son. If there are not many, it is because they have been given an ap­petite for the mediocre by reviewers who were better salesmen than critics. It was a member of the faculty of Cambridge who made this observation on the false judgments of the crowd which perhaps is not an unfair de­scription of some of the reviewers and commentators: "The world mis­
(Cbntinued on Page 167) 

March-April, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 
« Director of Athletic Publicity 
ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Your Notre Dame basketball team, currently in a flat spin, is heading into its final week of competition as this is written. The Irish have again made this department look good by fulfilling its prediction that they would be the most dangerous team in the country in the latter stages of the schedule, although probably not un­defeated in the final games. 
They ran their embryo winning streak, as of the last issue of the ALUMNUS, into a robust 10-gamer, and then without warning they began to slip. They made records for Notre Dame for nearly two months; and now they have made a few for the opposition. 
During the coui-se of the season the 1938-39 Irish twice broke the Notre Dame scoring record, beating Cani­sius, 72 to 36, and John Carroll, 74 to 
36. The 110 points scored in the latter game represent an all-time high total for a Notre Dame game. They dropped 22 out of 23 free throws against Kentucky, in winning 42 to 37, to establish another mark. Rex Ellis tipped in the one missed shot for a field goal. 
They even won a game after it had ended; yea, after the overtime period had ended. They came from behind to tie Syracuse at 32-alI as the final gun sounded. Then the overtime ended with the count at 34-all, thanks to a brace of free throws apiece. Maurice Ziegenhorn, sophomore sub 
. forward, was fouled just before the gun. After a dramatic two-minute wait while the crowd quieted, he stepped up to the line, bounced the ball once, and dunked it through the hoop with all the calmness of a sleep­ing kitten. That v-ictoi-j' over Syra­cuse was the last the Irish were to enjoy up until this writing. 
The blow fell when Marquette came to Notre Dame. It fell again when the Irish went to Milwaukee a week later. And fate came back ^vith a hard right cross at Indianapolis when Butler supplied the opposition. Marquette dealt out a 25-point defeat at Notre Dame, 47 to 22, the worst by five points that a team of Coach George Keogan's has ever received. Then the Hilltoppers made more his­tory by winning the return, 58 to 50. It was the first time they had beaten Notre Dame twice in the same season, the first time Notre Dame had scored as many as 50 points and lost, the biggest total ever scored in a Mar­quette game, 108 points, and the first 
MORE HELP! HELP! 

Last month's appeal for squad pic­tures of baseball, basketball, and track for the Rockne Memorial field- * house has helped the cause somewhat, but we ask you again to look into those old trunks and boxes. 
Mr. Peter M. Griffin, '08, Coming, 

N. Y., sent us the picture of the 1908 baseball team in which his late broth­er-in-law, T. Paul McGannon, *08, appears as student manager. Mr. £. Walter Bauman, '02, Toledo, Ohio, supplied several interesting pictures of individuals and relay teams. From the effects of the late Rev. John Far­ley, C.S.C., '01, we were able to get other pictures in albums kept by Prof. Timothy Howard. Elwyn (Mike) Moore, '20, South Bend, supplied a snap of George Gipp in "civvies" and a photo of the 1920 baseball team. 
The collection is far from complete, however, and we ask you again, now that the Rockne Memorial has been opened, to send in any original photo­graphs you have of the following teams: 
Baseball—1911 to 1919 inclusive, 1921 to 1923 inclusive. 
Basketball — 1898 to 1913 inclus­ive, 1917 to 1922 inclusive. 
Track—1890, 1899, 1900, 1906, 1909 to 1917 inclusive, 1921 to 1925 inclusive. 
Any pictures loaned to us will be re-photographed and returned in good condition. Wherever possible, please supply identification. The com­plete collection, in a uniform size, will be placed in the Rockne Memorial. If worst comes to worst, we can get most of these from old SCHOLAS­TICS and DOMES, but the reproduc­tions are not as good as those made from original photographs. 
time since 1935 when Pitt turned the trick, that Notre Dame lost to .the same opponent twice in the same sea­son. 
Butler's 35 to 27 victory, which resulted from a tie-breaking closing drive, was the first for the Bulldogs in 12 starts against Notre Dame. On deck as deadline approached was a game with the best team in Detroit history at Detroit and the finale with 
N.Y.U. at Notre Dame. The Violets dropped a 34 to 30 decision to Notre Dame at Madison Square Garden last month. Coach Keogan says that it was the best N.Y.U. team he has ever seen. 
This 1938-39 team had its moments. It was glorious in its victories over Minnesota, 55 to 33, and Illinois, 38 to 24, in successive starts. It over­came its lack of height and experi­ence with as fast and as mystifying a passing attack as the Irish have ever had. Unflagging alertness and ag­gressiveness gave the Irish much more defensive strength than early games indicated they would have. Not natu­rally gi'eat scorers of the Johnny Moir-Paul Nowak type, they arrived at greatness in this field by hours of practice. They averaged more than 50 points a game up to the first Mar­quette contest, and they are only slightly below this mark now. 
Coach Keogan used his usual cross-court game, but varied it with a fast break which made the play of the Irish more colorful perhaps than ever before, even though individually the team lacked some of the crowd-pleas­ing qualities possessed by Ed Kranse, Paul Nowak, Johnny Moir, and others of that school. 
The record at this writing is 13 victories and six defeats with two games to go. These totals came about as follows: 
Notre Dame, S4i Kalamazoo, 13 
N'otre Dame, 70; Ball State, 30 Notre Dame, 39: Wisconsin, 45 Notre Dame, 38; Micfaisan, 40 
Notre Dame, 48; Northwestern, 30 Notre Dame, 39; Northwestern, 43 Notre Dame, 48; Cornell. 18 Notre Dame, 37; Sailer, 35 Notre Dame, 42,; Kentucky, 37 
Notre Dame, 59; Western Reserve, 36 Notre Dame, 72; Canisius, 36 
Notre Dame, 74; John Carrell, 36 Notre Dame, 55; Minnesota, 33 Notre Dame, 38; Illinois, 24 Notre Dame, 34; New Yorlt V.. 
, 30 

Notre Dame, 35; Syracuse, 34 Notre Dame. 22: Marquette, 47 Notre Dame, 50; Marauette, 58 
Notre Dame, 27; Butler, 35 
TRACK 
Just before Captain Greg Rice of the 1939 track team stepped on to the battleship gray hoards of Madison Square Garden track to face Glenn Cunningham, Don Lash, and Tommy Deckard in the special two-mile fea­ture of the I.e. 4-A games recently, he got a wire from his teammates: 
"The B squad is rooting for you." 

It isn't quite as bad as that, but heavy graduation losses and few re­placements have weakened the Fight­ing Irish. Rice ranks already as one of the greatest track athletes in Notre Dame history and thus the contrast is marked enough to warrant to some extent the modest wire of the rest of the team. 
The Irish has lost two of their three dual meets, but they have met the best in the Middle West in Michigan and Indiana. Coach John Nicholson would rather take a licking from a good team than lose to a weak one, so with one of his weakest Notre Dame squads he scheduled what will probably prove to be the gi-eatest Michigan team in history. 
Indiana won the opening meet at Notre Dame, 441/3 to 41 2/3, a meet 
BASKETBALL CAPTAIN EAKL BROWN 
fraught with might-have-beens for the Irish, but a victory well-deserved by the Hoosiers. Dave Eeidy of Notre Dame tied tlie meet record of 7.8 sec­onds in the CO-yard high hurdles, and he w'as a member of Notre Dame's winning mile relay team. Cochran of Indiana set a meet mark of 50.4 sec­onds in the 440-yard dash. 
Eice raced to fame in New York the following week when he defeated Don Lash in the two-mile run in 9 minutes 7.6 seconds, breaking his for­mer Notre Dame record by 12 seconds and bettering his best outdoor time by four seconds. The ICUrose Games in Madison Square Garden provided the setting. 
The Irish had little trouble defeat­ing the weakest Michigan State team in several years, 65 to 30. All marks in this meet were meet records, better­ing the performances made in pre­vious duels in 1909 and 1920. 
Rice led the Irish to a fine sho^ving in the Illinois relays when he won the 1500-meter run in meet and Notre Dame record time of 3:58, and then took first in the mile team race in meet record time of 4:25.7. For the unin­itiated, the mile team race is run like a cross-country race with four en­trants from each school. One point is scored for first, two for second, etc, and the quartet with the lowest score OTns. Rice was first, by dint of a 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
great sprint after he had tried to bring his mates along by every means except carrying them on his back, and the Irish finished out of the money as a team. 
But Notre Dame scored in 9 of the 10 individual events, and in t^vo re­lays. The Irish were second in the shuttle relay behind Michigan, and third in the two-mile relay. Bill Fay­monville and Ed Beinor were third and fourth in the shot put, John Dean was tied for third in the pole vault with Don Bird of Kansas, Bill Dough­erty, who ^vill be heard from outdoors, was third in the broad jump; Ted Leonas tied for third in the high jump, Eeidy took second in the lows and third in the highs. Curt Hester was fourth in the 1,000-yard run, and Joe Halpin was fourth in the 300­yard dash. 
Came the Michigan meet and a 65 to 30 victory for the Wolverines. Eice won the mile in 4:19.1 with a fine finishing spurt Nicholson, with the meet already lost, ordered him just to "get a workout" in the t^vo-mile so he let Ralph Schwarzkopf win in 9:15.8, a new fieldhouse record, while Eice pulled in at 9:23.5 breezing. His time was seven seconds faster than the Notre Dame record that preceded his coming to Notre Dame, at that. Ted Leonas did a nice job in the high jump, tying Allen of Michigan at 6 feet 4 inches. John (Diz) Dean tied for first in the pole vault at 12 feet 6 inches, although he is capable of bet­ter marks. He has done 13 feet this year. 
Eice ran against the great Glenn Cunningham, Don Lash, and Tommy Deckard in the I.C.4-A. games at New York in a special two-mile race at Madison Square Garden the next week. He was third, two yards be­hind Glenn and a yard behind Lash, 6/10 seconds behind Cunningham's wnning 9:11.8. After a 4:29 mile. Lash ran into Cunningham's hands by slowing do^vn the pace to a jog for the next quarter. Then Eice took 
SPORTS BULLETIN 
The basketball team closed an excellent season with victories over Detroit, 48-42, and New York University, 46-42, for a season record of 15 won and six lost. 
The track team took the an­nual Central Collegiate Confer­ence indoor track meet at Notre Dame with a total of 45 points. Marquette vras second, with 32 points, and Pittsburgh third, ^ with 28 points. 
The fencing team closed a. fine season with a 12-5 victory over Washington University, St. Louis. The final adding - up shows seven wins, two defeats and a tie. 

March-April. 1939 
the lead and stepped the pace up a bit. Rice made a mistake of judg­ment, in Nicholson's opinion, when he delayed his kick too long. He let Glenn and Don get ahead of him and then unleashed his sprint 80 yards from home. He made up 10 yards in these last 80, and would have won in another 10 or 20 yards. Quick to ad­mit his error, he said that he forgot that the Garden track is shorter than 
TRACK CAPTAIN- GREG RICE 

Notre Dame's and he thought that he was starting his kick at the right time. 
Rice has the greatest finishing lack of anyone running t\vo miles today, faster than even the great sprints of Lash and Cunningham. And if he gets another crack at them, our pre­diction for this month is that he will prove it. He was chagrined at his defeat because, as he put it, "I still had ten seconds left inside of me." And a defeat by less than a second at the hands of these greatest distance runners in American history, come to think of it, needs no explaining after all. 
• FENCING 

Another winning fencing season is drawing rapidly to a close, with six victories, two defeats, and a tie in the record book to date. The team started with a victory, a defeat, and a tie and has been beaten only once since, with one match to go. 
Coach Pedro A. de Landero is par­ticularly proud of his sabre and epee men, who have improved steadily all year, saving several meets for him. The foils team looked strong, but it fluctuated all year, appearing either impregnable or entirely TOO preg­nable. The sabre men won three of their four bouts against Wisconsin, for example, to defeat Wisconsin, 9 to 8, last time out, overcoming a 7 to G Badger lead. 
The record follows: 

Notre Dame. 10%; Purdue, 6% Notre Dame, 8: Lawrence TecB, 8 (tie) Chicago, 13; Notre Dame, 4 Notre Dame, 16: Detroit, 1 Ohio State, 3%; Notre Dame, 7% Notre Pame, 14; Cincinnati, Z Notre Dame, 6; LaPancbe F. C, (Cincinnati), 3 Notre Dame, 17; Purdue, 10 Notre Dame, 9; "Wisconsin, 8 
March-April, 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI * « 
•piRANCISCO GASTON, '02, Havana, -'- professor of engineering in Ha­vana University, is proudly recog­nized by Notre Dame as one of her outstanding Latin - American alumni. A Public Works Department official for 20 years, Mr. Gaston supervised the construction and improvement of harbors throughout Cuba. He re­
^m 
FRVNCISCO GASTON, '02 

signed that post to take up univer­sity teaching. 
Mr. Gaston was, 30 years ago, one of the founders of the Association of Cuban Engineers and he is at present serving as president of that body. • He was recently one of the sponsors of the General Motors "Parade of Prog­ress," which brought to Cuba a re­markably vivid and impressive exhibi­tion of scientific progress, present and potential. 
Mr. Gaston has been, consistently, one of the University's staunchest and most generous supporters. His latest visit to the campus, in August, 1934, with his wife, is one of the happy memories of the Alumni Office. 
J
OHN F. ROBINSON, '28, Cheshire, Connecticut, is the generalissimo— and a self-sacrificing and successful one—of the Rockne Memorial Fund campaign in New England. Besides, he is helping to run Cheshire Academy as secretary of the Alumni Associa­tion, alumni editor of the Academy Review and master of history and ac­coimting. And he has been district deputy of the Knights of Columbus since 1934. 
That is just part of the current history about John. Hold on while the remainder is streamlined for you: chairman. Boy s Wor k Committee, Connecticut K. of C; member, advis­ory board, Albertus Magnus College, New Haven; member, board of direc­tors, Y.M.C.A., Waterbury; member, Boy Scout advisory board, Connecti­cut diocese; chairman, advisory board of Nepaug Village (educational insti­tution of Connecticut NYA); member, advisory board, Connecticut NYA; co-chairman. Brotherhood of Jews and Christians, Waterbury; member, state advisory council of Connecticut Merit System Association (branch of Na­tional Civil Service Reform League. 
S-E 
JOHN F . ROBINSON, '28 

Mor e Robinsonian streamlining: graduate work an d instructorship, Notre Dame; graduate work, Yale; faculty member, Cheshire Academy; leave of absence from Cheshire to be­come special assistant to the tax com­missioner of Connecticut; taugh t night school, Albertus Magnus Col­lege, New Haven, and Junior College of Commerce, New Haven, while em­ployed by tax commissioner; returned to Cheshire. 
In 1935-36, John was president of the Young Democratic Clubs of Con­necticut and he served as chairman of the executive board of the same organization in 1936-37. On another side, John is president of the Notre Dame Club of Waterbury and a mem­ber of the Graduates Club, New 
Haven, and of the University Club, 
Waterbury. He is a former governor 
of District 9 of the Alumni Associa­
tion. He was twice grand knight of 
the Waterbury K. of C. and is a 
fourth degree member of the order. 
Time out for breath-catching and to 

tell you that Mr. and Mrs. Robinson 
are the father of a daughter. 
lyrARCELLUS L. JOSLYN, '93, Chi­^^ cago, president of the Joslyn Mfg. & Supply Co., manufacturers of com­plete" pole line equipment, and of a number of its subsidiaries and asso­ciated companies in different parts of the United States, is the man chiefly responsible for one of the most effec­tive and admired Profit-Sharing Plans in the country. For his concrete con­tribution to the welfare of the work­ing man, Mr. Joslyn last April re­ceived the Wreath of Laurel Justice from Rev. Charles E. Coughlin, LL.D., '33. 
Mr. Joslyn's conviction is that "partnership between labor and cap­ital is possible only when the laborer himself becomes a capitalist." The Joslyn Plan achieves this goal by en­abling employees to build up credits in a fund created by joint contribu­tions out of weieWy wages and out of 
MAKCEIXTJS L. JOSLYN, '93' 

annual profits of the company.' Under : the Plan each employee with three years or more of service must pay into this trust fund five per cent of his wages up to a maximum of ?200 a year. 
(Continued on Page 149) 

eirrs 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
For the Metallurgj' Departmental Library, from Sir. \V. J. Learraonth: A complete set (14 volumes) of the "Transactions of the American Society of Steel Treating." For the Economics Research Fund: Previously acknowledged $45,000.00 AnonjTnous _ 15,000.00­
Total ?60,000,00 
For Apologetics Scholarships: Previously acknowledged . -5 3,800.35 Karl Johnson, '29 .. 1,000.00 An alumnus 870.41 
Total 5 5,670.76 For the Julius A. Nieuwland Foundation: -/ 
Previouslv acknowledged^..^;!—ZZ-:^—/^^\Ji.-4i..l. OJ. -X -?44,825.70 
'^-0\"',"'f"<>'
AnonjTnous 8,038.91 
Total ?52,864.61 
For the Rockne Memorial 

(Contributions entered from Jan. 6, 1939, to Feb. 28, 1939, inclusive.) 
Louis Astor, New York City 5.00 Raymond F. Beck^vith. Newark-10.00 Francis T. Crego. '34. Maspeth, N. Y-. 6.00 Martin J. Alper. New York City 25.00 John J. Bergen. New "i'ork City-100.00 E. T. Connelly, '32, Elmhurst, N. Y.­10.00 Anonymous, Misiiawaka, Ind. 15.00 Ernest Braun. Detroit-1.00 Philip F. Clark, '32, Brooklyn 25.00 Robt. L. Anthony, South Bend. Ind-5.00 William N. Hosier, '06, Louisville . 10.00 Frank A. Carroll. New Rochelle, N.Y_ 
100.00 

Anonymous, Notre Dame, Ind., 50.00 Edmund J. Bartnett, '38, New Norbert Qancy. '25, Evansville, Ind_ 5.00 A Friend, South Bend, Ind., 1.00 Rochelle, New York _. 2.00 James W. Corbctt. '24. Marion, Ind_ 5.00 
Anonymous. New York City 6.00 Edwin F. Brennan. '28, N. Y. C 6.00 George B. Collins, Notre Dame 
15.00 

John Q. Adams, '26, Mmitclair, N. J., 10.00 H. M. Burchell. '34, Brooklyn-5.00 Jos. R. Conroy. Philadelphia­
6.00 

T. F. Appleby, Ashbury Pk., N. J 5.00 R. r. Bryarly, Jr., Winchester, Va_ 1.00 C A. CoWins. Los Angeles. S.OO A Friend, New York City — 25.00 Jos. A. Busch, Mankato, Minn. 25.00 Dr. B. D. Coughlin, '26, St. Louis 10.00 Jack Augenblick. Newark 5.00 James L Brown, Baltimore . 25.00 James V. Cbrrigan. Poplar Bluff, Mo-2.00 
J. H. Armick, Detroit-1.00 "Wm. C. Blind, '32, New York City__ 6.00 James F. Carey, "Verona. N. J. 
1.00 

Louis Argueso, '22, New York City— 25.00 Rev. J. F. Burgoyne, Ardmore, Pa«. 1.00 Howard "V. Crowe, '26, Detroit 25.00 John J. Antus, '28. New York City__ 20.00 Joseph A. Bower, New York City—. John T. Casey, '34. Elmhurst. N. Y 5.00 
10.00 

5.00 Brooklyn Gas Co. Employees, Coney 
H. M. Aliens, Jr., BufTalo L. J. CuIIiney, "28, New York City__ 
25.00 

Paul J. Anderson. '27. E. Chicago 25.00 Island, New York-20.00 R. A. Coroon. Jr. New York City 100.00 Jos. H. Argus. *35,Indianapolis 10.00 Andrew J. Boyle. '28, Notre Dame 35.00 Patrick J. Conway. '30. Philadelphia 10.00 
E. A. Berkery, '27, New York City 25.00 James F. Connor, Philadelphia 
J. L. Bourkc. '33. CTeveland-5.00 Hugh Ball, '32. Lakewood. O 1.00 1.00 
Frank Cbstelli. Carroll Park. Pa 
1.00 
F. Joseph Butler, Jr., *!i^t Cleveland — 4.00 

F. J. Butler, Sr., '94, Qeveland 2.00 Bert Cassidy, Jr., Ardmore. Pa,— — 1.00 
Robt. Wm. Butler, '34, Lakewood, O 2.00 Arthur N. Becvar, *33, Lakewood, O 1.00 
John J. Costello. Springfield, Mass 13.00 
Thomas F. Byrne, '28. Cleveland 100.00 Alfred A. Burger, '15, Shaker Heights, C. E. Cartier. South Bend 
10.00 

Carl J. Bontempo, Qoveland 2.00 Ohio 2.00 
C. J. Crowley. Jr., '35, Brooklyn 12.00 
Paul H. Bontield. ChicaRO— 200.00 Rev. B. A. Blatt. Cleveland 10.00 John P. Chapla. '23, Cleveland 
25.00 

Joseph Bernard. New York City-25.00 Jon Beljon, '30, Cleveland . 5.00 
James L. Callahan, '30. Ocveland Paul Barron, "Washington 6.00 
Heights, Ohio 2.00 
Murray F. Beier, Philadelphia 5.00 Thomas Connors, New York City 10.00 O. J. Cerney. '34, Oeveland-2.50 Kobt. A. Bust, '29. Potosi. Mo._ 24.00 
B. A. Clements, New York City-10.00 Stanley B. Cofall,' '17, Cleveland 
E. Walter Bauman, '03, Dayton, O.­25.00 Rev. Joseph E. Connelly, Chicago . 10.00 Heights, Ohio 
100.00 

David F. Broderick, Detroit 50.00 Joseph J. Casasanta. '23. South Bend-15.00 J. P. Canny, '28, Ocveland­
50.00 

Fred D. Breit, Evanston. Bl.. 100.00 Kenneth E. Cook. '26, New York City-10.00 
Pierre Champion, '22, Qeveland 25.00 
Joe B. Broivn, Beverly Hills, Calif 100.00 G. J. Craugh, '21. Great Neck. N. _Y 50.00 Robt. Colgan, '34, Cleveland Heights, "William L. Benitz, '13. Notre Dame 60.00 Terence B, Cosgrove, '06, Los Angeles 500.00 
Ohio _— — „„. 10.00 
A, Donald Brice, '34. Brooklyn 15.00 Leo James Coan, Memphis-10.00 
Frank X. Cull. '08, aevekind . 25.00 
Jerome Boespluir, Miles Citj', Mont.— 5.00 Frank J. Cianciolo. Memphis „ 10.00 Big Ten Club of Memphis, Memphis— 10.00 Phil M. Canale. Memphis-25.00 
W. H. Dominick. New York City 10.00 
Mark Bcatus, '71, Memphis 10.00 Francis Sturia Canale. '35, Memphis 10.00 
John A. Dillon. New York City 10.00 
Fred Bauer, Jr., '32, Memphis 6.00 A. A. Canale. Memphis _ 5.00 
Jerry Donovan, Milwaukee 1.00 
Charles M. Bryan. '97, Memphis 25.00 R. W. Cavanaugh. '36. Wash'lon, D.C. 10.00 
E. B. Donohue, Butte. Mont 5.00 
T. E. Buchanan, New York City-10.00 John B. Collier. Jr., Fort Worth, Tex. 25.00 
T. E. Do«T.ey, '14, Butte, Mont 10.00 
Robert L. Boykin. '29. Washington 25.00 Gilbert H. Cbrbin. Easton. Pa 5.00 
T. F. Dohogne. '27, Memphis-5.00 
J. J. Bishop, West Brighton, N. Y._ 5.00 Jerry C. Ciaeys. '37, South Bend. 20.00 
"Virgil D, Davidson, Los Angeles -15.00 
Joseph Bremman, Detroit 2.00 Jerome J. Gushing, '35, Chicago _ 50.00 
Fred, and John Deichmann, '36, Santa James I. Poland, '17, South Bend 25.00 Leo J. Cummings. '33, Seattle _ 6.00 
Monica. Calif..^ _—_ -4.00 
Frank E. Birch, Sterling, III-10.00 C. C. Childs, Washington-5.00 
"W. T. David. Fargo. N. Dak 1.00 
J. S. Brown, '31. North Tariytown 26.00 Lt. Jos. A. Callahan. '38, Brooklyn-2.00 
Timothy Danielson, Chicago 10.00 
Hon. H. P. Burke. '16, Rochester, N. Y. 50.00 John G. Conover. Allenhurst. N. J. .. 5.00 
Chase Donaldson. New York City. 2.00 
Lawrence A. Barera. Detroitu 20.00 Hon. Ednin C. Cailrey, E. Orange, N J . 10.00 
James H. D,-i]y, '28. Flushing, N. Y-20.00 
James B. Burke, '36. Lemoore, Calif-10.00 Norman Carroll, New York City _ 6.00 
John S. Dowd. Louisvilla 10.00 
Anthony W. Brick, '3G, North Tona-Sheldon Catlin, Philadelphia 26.00 
Francis R. Danaher; Meridan, Conn.-2.00 
^vanda. New York . 3.00 Dr. Myron E. Crawford. '32, Cleveland 10.00 
Alfred DeCozen. Newark-10.00 
Dr. V. r. Bonafedc. Sonyea. N. Y. 1.00 T. F. CrxJsby. Cleveland 10.00 
Rudolph H. Deelj'en. Belleville, N. J_ 10.00 
J. A. Blancy, '32, Gr. Rapids; Mich 25.00 Mary A. Callahan, Woodside, N. Y— 10.00 
Henry Dolch. Newark ^ 5.00 
Bryne E. Baldwin, New York City 10.00 Gertrude Carroll, Corona, N. Y. _ 1.00 
Dr. Leo P. Dolan, Toledo. 25.00 
Chester L Barnard, Newarl: 10.00 Thomas Cclentano, Newarlc . 1.00 
William Davis, Sugar Notch, Pa 6.00 
E. G. Barrow, New York City 250.00 Leo J. Coughlin. East Orange, N. J... 5.00 
F. E. Doan, '29, Cleveland 40.00 
John J. Berry, Newarl:— 10.00 James "W. Costello, Newark— 5.00 
Dan "W. Duffy, '21. Cleveland-60.00 
C. L. Blauvelt. So. Orange, N. J-25.00 Hon. Charles W. Culfcin, N. Y. C-25.00 
J. J. Dunne. San Louis Obispo, Calif-25.00 
Elmer H. Bohst, NuUey, N. J 10.00 Miss Marion Collins, Brooklyn 5.00 Thomas A. Dean. Chicago 5.00 
John C. Brahney, Newark^ 25.00 Dr. R. E. Coleman. Detroit J.OO 
Ernest Denten, Chicago—. 5.00 
J. J. Breslin, Jr., Lyndhurst, N. J 10.00 John Cooke, Detroit-1.00 David Brown, Maplewood. N. J 10.00 Leonard R. Condon, Roclxford. HI-60.00 
Mr. & Mrs. J. C. Dmvns, Grayslake 
Illinois _—. ^ — 
Sandford Brown, New York City 25.00 Harold S. Childs, Des Moines, la -S.OO Jesse A. Doll, Louisville— 200.00 Edwin G. Bruns, Jr.. New York City_ 100.00 P. Callahan. Boston-10.00 J. A- Devine, '34, Norwalk, Conn 12.50 
J. Ashley Brown, Newark . 6.00 John J. Cronin. New York City— 5.00 100.00 
William J. Burke, Newarlc 10.00 Joseph W. Conklin, New York City— 5.00 R. B. Devine, '36, Norwalk, Conn-12.50 
GIFTS FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL (Continued) 
Kenneth B. Fo.x.'17. Rockville Centre, N.Y. , 27.00 Rev. George M. Finney. Ardmore. Pa. 1.00 
V. O. Figge. '19, Davenport, Ta 25.00 Dr. W. E. Foley. Davenport. la 10.00 .Tos. B. Flj-nn. Harrison. N. J. 1.00 George Felte, Tulsa, Okla. 5.00 
Henrj- Grattan. Englewood. N. J. 26.00 Rose D. Grattan, Englewood, N, J.— 1.00 James L. Gemon. Brooklyn. N. Y 25.00 Miss Eleanor Gemon. Brooklyn. N. Y. 10.00 Mrs. James L. Gemon. Brooklyn. N.Y. 10.00 Edgar W. Garbisch, New York City-15.00 Francisco J. Gaston.'02. Havana, Cuba 10.00 Waldemar Gurian, Notre Dame. 35.00 Ernest J. Gargaro. Memphis. Tenn— 10.00 Rev. D. Gallagher.'24. Bloomingdale. N.Y. 10.00 James J. Gerend. '33.Sheboygan. Wis. 3.00 Dr. E. Gushurst.'15. Minneapolis. Minn. 5.00 Lewis M. Gabbe. New York City 10.00 
E. C. Gcrsten. New York City 15.00 

C. E. Goldsmith. New York City-
A. E. Gilbert. New York City Ed. C. Graff. Newark. N. J. Dr. J. E. Gibbons, Los Angeles, Calif. John J. Gallagher. Los Angeles. Calif. Alfred C. Grisanti. '31, Cleveland, O 
L. W. Gannon. Coming. N. Y. Rudy Garze. Now York City —. Maurice A. Goodeve, '31, Calgary, Can. Wcndolla G. Gordan. Richmond, HI 
I. B. Gelber. Hackensack, N. J. Ray Geiger, '32, Newark. N. J. 
H. L. Green Co.. South Bend Frank Gordan. Davenport, la. Frank Gorman, Davenport, la. 
A. J. Gallagher. '30. Cleveland Hts., O. Jos. J. Gavin, '31, Cleveland. Ohio John W. Gleason, '23, Qeveland, Ohio 
Elroy E. H.ibert, '26, Lakewood. Ohio Rob't H. Hackraan.'SS. Qeveland Hts., O. Edmund H. Hogan. '32, Lakewood, O. Joseph E. Hanratty. '3-1. Parma, O George Hope, Royal Oak, Mich, William Htldebrand, Detroit, Mich. 
A. S. Hardart. New York City —_ 
C. C. Hubbard. New York City 
A. C. Hayman. Buffalo. N. Y. James J. Hoey. New York City Andrew Hufnagcl, '36, Ridgewood, N..Y. Eugene P. Healy. '34. Brooklyn. N. Y. Paul Hudtoff. Butte. Mont. Miss Minne Hansen, Butte, Mont. Austin K. Hall. '26. Memphis. Tenn .lack Harrington. '36. Memphis. Tenn. Galvin Hudson. '15. Memphis. Tenn. Frank Howland. '25..Memphis, Tenn, Arthur E, Haas, South Bend Richard Hyland,'lS, Long Is. City, N.Y. Dr. Clinton Hartz. Evansville, Ind. 
F. A. Hcrmens. South Bend 
•fordan
 T. Hargrove.'35. Woodstde. N.Y. 

C.
 E. Hart. Moorhcad. Minn. John V. Hinkcl. '29. New York City_ Roht. H. Halpin. '34. New York City Harold F. Hall. '23. Ardmore. Pa John P. Hennessey. St. Louis. Mo. Emery Huston, Conncrsville, Ind. Frank Hanley. Notre Dame Hon. F. A. Hartley. Jr. Kearney. N. J. Joseph A. Hurley. Newark. N. J. Paul E. Heller, Newark. N. J. 

C.
 E. Hilgers. Atlanta. Ga. William Hildebrand. W. Orange, N. J. Miss Nellie Hillingor. Detroit, Mich 

H.
 B. Harvey, Chicago . Mjron C, Hershfield, '31. Goshen, Ind. Thomas A. Hughen.'33. Beaumont. Tex. .lohn A. Hoyt. Jr.. '33. Ne>v York City Paul H. Hockwalt. '35. Canton. Ohio John E. Hock«-alt, '32. Canton. Ohio ­Daniel D. Halpin. '31. New York City Frank J. Hale. Belleville. N. J. Steph. M. Holleran. '33. Welch. W. Va. Emil Heim. Detroit. Mich. . 

F.
 J. Henneberger. '31, Princeton, Ind. Wayne L. Harmon. Hollywood. Calif.— Hunvich Iron Co.. South Bend—_— James Hachigian. Watcrvliet. N. Y. — Willard J. Higgins.'33. New York City Edwin Hogan. Philadelphia. Pa. Charles J. Hughes. Philadelphia, Pa William A, Hickey, Davenport. la. — John W. Hitchco-x. '38, Rockford, III 

J.
 K. Hutchison. New York City — Daniel B. Hilgartner, '17, Chicago, III. Ed. P. Huisking. '37. Huntington. N.Y. 

F.
 E. Huisking. '37, Huntington, N. Y. Wm. W. Huisking. '34, Huntington, N.Y. 

W.
 J. Holmes, Jr., Brooklj-n, N. Y. — 


John J. Igoo. '2S. St. Louis. SIo. Edward S. Inglis. New York City ' x\dolph O. Infanger. New York City— 
W. S. Jenney. New York City . 
P. D. Jonas. New York City . Ned Joyce, jr.. '37. Spartanburg. S.C. John J. Johnke. New Rockford. N.Dak. Frank H. Janke. New York City 
A.E.
 (Gus) Jenkins.'28. Buffalo, N.Y. 

E.
 H. Jung. West Nyack. N. Y. 

V.
 J. Jnsinski.' 34. Spring Valley. N. Y. Dr. John W. Jackson. '32 Baysidc. N.Y. John A. .Jordan. '32. New York Oty ­Thomas J. Jones, '04, Indianapolis, Ind. 


Louis Krouse, New York City . 
J. W. Kaufer. '12, South Bend . John B. Kanaley. '09, Chicago . 
L. V. Keefe. '26. New York City . 
D. M. Kelley. Butte. Mont. , Thomas F. Konop. South Bend Harold Kandor. Kansas City, Mo. . 
A. J. Klein. Jr.. '32. Minneapolis. Minn. James J. Kearney. '31, South Bend — Al. A. Klein. '99. Evansville. Ind. John J. Kennctly, New York City Walter A. Kiolbasa, '32, Chicago 
E. M. Morris. '06, South Bend, (add'l) 6.000.00 
5.00 5.00 13.00 1.00 10.00 100.00 3.00 23.00 10.00 10.00 3.00 15.00 25.00 23.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 12.00 
20.00 10.00 5.00 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 
25.00 
10.00 
10.00 25.00 2.00 10.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 30.00 3.00 33.00 75.00 10.00 35.00 10.00 1.00 50.00 5.00 3.00 5.00 50.00 25.00 23.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 23.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 6.00 87.50 230.00 3.00 
1.00 
10.00 5.00 50.00 5.00 10.00 1.00 1.00 50.00 50.00 3.00 23.00 60.00 50.00 60.00 
S.OO 
23.00 10.00 5.00 
10.00 10.00 10.00 1.00 23.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
15.00 10.00 100.00 23.00 25.00 23.00 
6.00 1.00 23.00 S.OO 10.00 1.00 
Wm. B. Diclmann, Jr., San Antonio, Texas James J. Dw-yer. *26, Brooklyn-
J. Nye Dultcy. '35, Rochester. N. Y... Philip A. Darmody, '33, Chicago 
J. J. Dunnigan. '34, New York City™ Peter P. Dupay, '25, Basking Ridge, 
New Jersey James P. Dunphy, New York City Charles J, Dclnmana, Bayonne. N. J.­Charles D. Duffy. Jr.. Oak Park. 1)1— Jos. A. DeStefano. Montclair, N. J.— Slichacl F. Dugan. Fltishinff. N. Y Anthony Dann. Campbell, O 
C. W. Donahue. '25, New York City-
L. J. Dougherty, Davenport, la Patrick J. Dunne. Cleveland! Dulany & Tull. New York City 
R. J. Dahman. '28, Cleveland 
J. A. Dubbs. '06. Qeveland— Jos. U Daly. Cleveland Heights, O— Wm. J. Darcy, '36, L.ikewood, O Jos. E. Doan, '38. Lima, O 
J. A. Dubbs, Jr., '37, Cleveland John J, Dore, '24, Shaker Heights, 0.­Wm. H. Dore. '30. Shaker Heights. O ­
S. J. Drcyer, Canton. O 
J. M. Emery. New York City Edward K. Esch. Jr.. South Bend George Elmore, '38, South Bend Albert L. Engasser, New York City— Hon. William J. Ellis. Trenton. N. J ­Victor Emanuel. New York City . Conover English, Newark —, John W. Eason. Detroit— 
J. Frank Elsosser. Fcmdale. Mich Patrick Enright. Chicago 
Jacob E. Eckel, '16, Solvay, N. Y Invin C. Elders, Greenwich, Conn. Ralph F. Else. '34. Auburn. N. Y Dr. Milton T. Ebner. '27, Cleveland 
J. E. Flynn. Detroit Miss Alice Farrell. Brooklyn-
Harry R. Fuller, New York Citj-
J. Paul Fogarty, '17, Chicago 
N. J. Foley. Foley. Fla.-. James Futcn, '22, Detroit William Fay, '16, Memphis— 
J. E. Franchere. '06. Memphis-Walter J. Fransioli. Jr.. 'OS. Klcmphis.. 
v 
. Garvin Fransioli. '34. Memphis 

T.
 J. Foley, Jr., '36, Memphis John J. Farrell, Memphis Raymond C. Fox, Indianapolis. 

C.
 1^ Farris. '33. Arlington, Va Chester B. Franz. St. Louis 

T.
 C. Funk. '38. Anderson, Ind Elmo A. Funk, '11, Anderson, Ind 

W.
 E. Finnegan, '10, North Chicago-

P.
 A. Fergus. '35. South Bend 

J.
 C. Fester, Barbcrton, Ohio John E. Fox. '37. South Bend-

W.
 E. Fox. '24. Rockville Centre. N.Y. 

J.
 R. Fitzgibbon. '92, Newark, Ohio—. 

A.
 Gerard Farrell. '34. Rochester. N.Y. Joseph G. Freil. Brooklyn. N. Y. Frank T. Fbnn. Jr.. '31, South Bend _ 

T.
 W. Frost. '30. Minneapolis, Minn. .Tames J. Freeman. Haverstraw, N. Y. Joseph R. Folloy, Berca. Ohio —— 

C.
 J. Fitzsimmons. New York City Benjamin Fairbanks, Newark, N. J — Donald C. Fox. Newark. N. J Ir\-ing J. Feist, Newark, N. J... George Fullerton. Fords. N. J. Joseph R. Farrell. '15. Camp Hill. Pa. Howard H. Flannery,'34, Babylon. N.Y. Francis X. Fallon. Jr.. '33. N. Y. City Henry R. Frey. '30. New York City..­Gor\*ase A. Froelich. '27, Newark, N.J. Dr. Jos. C. Froelich. Newark. N. J Eugene A. Farrell, Newark, N. J Dr. Chas. J. Folcj-. '25. Waukegan. HI. Francis P. L. Ford. Wilmington, Del. 


10.00 23.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 
25.00 5.00 . 5.00 10.00 1.00 10.00 50.00 23.00 23.00 100.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 12.00 10.00 
5.00 23.00 5.00 10.00 
10.00 3.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 1.00 25.00 5.00 
25.00 1.00 10.00 5.00 
23.00 1.00 10.00 100.00 
100.00 10.00 6.00 5.00 1.00 2.00 5.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 
10.00 
100.00 10.00 5.00 30.00 5.00 50.00 60.00 23.00 25.00 33.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 10.00 lO.OO 1.00 S.OO 10.00 20.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 25.00 

J. E. Kenney, '21, Pelham Manor, N. Y. Robt K. KcUey, '34. South Bend Lawrence J. Keefe. New York City Edivard V. Killeen. New York City 
F. B. Kaufman. South Orange. N. J Charles E. Kelly. New York City
L. P. Kristeller, Newark, N. J. Joseph V. Kavanaugh. Brooklyn. N. Y. Dominic Keder. West Pittston, Pa. Leonard Kramer, New York City Henry A. F. Klein, Jersey City, N. J. 
F. M. Kclsey, Oak Park, III. Leo D. Kelley, '21, Syracuse, N. Y. Owen N. Kane. '38. Wisner, Nebr. William W. Kelley. '28. New York City Byron V. Kanaley. *04. Chicago James P. Kchoc, '33, Paterson, N. J. Patrick J. Kean, New York City Arthur P. Kane. Bloomington, III. 
W. D. Kavanaugh. '27, Chicago Joseph J. Kashmer. LaPorte, Ind-Fergus F. Kelly. '37. Jamaica. N. Y. Leo Kautz. Davenport. la. Eugene A. Kane. '14. Rocky River, O. John A. Kiener. '32. Rocky River. O. 
L. J. Kerwin. '38. Qeveland Hts.. O. 
W. A. Krider, '23, Qeveland, Ohio 
E. H. Kieman. Union. N. J. 
S. J. Keeney, Englewood CliSs, N. J. Ralph Kaiser. '36. Lakewood. Ohio Charles N. Kaiser. Rocky River. Ohio Ted Kuster. '34, Cleveland, Ohio 
E. L. Lalumier. Chicago. HI. Wilson A. Lynch. '36. Elkhart. Ind. David L. Lawrence, Pittsburgh, Pa 
L. T. Lawler, Butte. Mont. 
W. B. Loucks, New York City Herman Levy, New York City John P. Lewis. New Y'ork City Thomas Long. Detroit. Mich. . Tohmas F. Lantry. '30. New York City 
R. E. Lottleton. South Bend 
H. J. Laucrman. '23. Menominee. Mich. Thomas J. Lee. '2S, Minneapolis. Minn. Benjamin Lazrus. New York City Daniel A. Leary. Newark. N. J. William H. Loftus. Newark. N. J. 
B. J. Lienesch. South Bend Frank R. Lockard. "15. Toledo. O. Raymond J. Lang. *2i, Mtshawaka. Ind. Leo J. Lynn. '29. Evansville. Ind. 
F. Wendell Lcnsing. '30. Evansville. Ind. Henry B. Lensing. '11. Evansville, Ind. 
B. T. Locfiler. '28. Indianapolis. Ind. Chas. M. Loughrey. '33, Brooklyn. N.Y. Louis Lowinson. New York City Gerald Lyons. '24. Jackson Hts., N. Y. Cecile Laier. Philadelphia. Pa, 
G. Albert Lawton. '35. Lakewood. Ohio James J. Lynn. Burlington. N. J. Qayton G. Lcroux, *28. Qeveland, Ohio 
P. T. Murph}-. '33. Oak Park, HI, John J. Murphy. '31. Oak Park. HI— Thomas J. Mulgrew, Dubuque. la. Meehan Family. New York City Edward J. Mehren. *.?2. PhoenLx, Ariz. 
E. B. Moffatt. New York City Joseph Miller. Buffalo. N. Y. 
A. Montague. New York City —: Otis P. Murphy. Chicago. HI. William F. Murphy. Chicago. HI. Fred C. Miller. '29. Milwaukee. Wis 
W. H. Murray. '25. Decatur, HI. Roy Murray. Butte, Mont. Arthur Merkle. Butte. Mont. Dr. R. C. Monahan. '94. Butte. Mont. Rev. Thos. J. Mackin.'19. Columbia, S.C. Herb. B. Moriarty.'lG. Memphis. Tenn. Hugh Mageveney. '25, Memphis. Tenn. 
J. S. Montedonico,'35, Memphis. Tenn. Chas. P. J. Moonoy.'21. Memphis. Tenn. Leo F. MuIIin. '22, Washington, D. C. Vincent W. Mauren. '34. Minneapolis Leon J. Moes.. '26. Minneapolis. Minn. 
E. B. Miller. '24, Evansville. Ind. Eugene A. Mayl. '24. Dayton. Ohio— Joseph B. Murphy. '11. Dayton, Ohio 
J. V. Maher. '26. New York City John L. Mulhall. "33, Sioux City, la — Karl Menger. South Bend William Moss. '35. New York City — 
J.C.
 MacDevitt.jr..'3S. Jackson Hts. N.Y. 

C.
 B. Miles. Walneton. N. Dak. John M. Miller, '17, Fall River, Mass. John H. Murphy, '32. Dorchester. Mass. James A. Murphy, Dorchester, Masa— Michael E. Murphy, Philadelphia, Pa. 

T.
 M. Millett. Louisville. Ky.-—: : Paul L. Mullaney. Chicago. HI. Mrs. Anna M. Merrill, Saginaw, Mich. David Mahany, New York City 

G.
 Donald Murray, Newark. N. J. — 

R.
 C. Mitchell. New York City Hon. Harry A. Moore. Trenton. N. J. Richard D. Marzano. Newark. N. J— .Tohn A. Meising. New York City Samuel A. Mehorter. New York City— 


23.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 13.00 25.00 5.00 50.00 2.00 10.00 5.00 
10.00 
25.00 5.00 20.00 100.00 1.00 5.00 25.00 100.00 10.00 3.00 5.00 25.00 5.00 
S.OO 10.00 
10.00 1.00 5.00 5.00 2.00 100.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 20.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 2.00 lO.OO 10.00 10.00 
100.00 
10.00 
5.00 
10.00 3.00 
10.00 5.00 2.00 10.00 1,00 6.00 5.00 12.00 
10.00 10.00 15.00 100.00 23.00 10.00 10.00 23.00 10.00 10.00 100.00 5.00 1.00 1.00 5.00 25.00 12.00 10.00 3.00 10.00 10.00 1.00 23.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 24.00 5.00 33.00 5.00 25.00 1.00 100.00 5.00 5.00 60.00 10.00 23.00 120.00 10.00 6.00 100.00 6.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 

GIFTS FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL (Continued) 
Harrj- B. Morton. Up. Mountelair, K.J. 5.00 John J. Neeson, '35, Philadelphia, Fa. 1.00 Jerome G. Reidy. '30. Lakewood. Ohio 10.00 Ernest F. Masini, Newark, N. J. 10.00 R. J. Near>-, '35, Bronx, N. Y. 2.00 Paul A; Robert. '28, Cleveland Hts., O. 5.00 Joseph R. MucUer, Newark, N. J. , 5.00 Miles J, Ryan, '26, Cleveland. Ohio 16.00 
M. J. Mcehan, New York City 100.00 Hugh M. O'Neill, '17, Cleveland, O. _ 25.00 Wm. R. Ryan, '41, Notro Dame 5.00 John J. Milleri Ebensburg, Pa . 5.00 James R. O'Grady, Detroit. Mich. • 5.00 J. Lee Ryan, Shaker Hts, Ohio 
25.00 

Dr. L. A. Mulligan, Leonia. N. J. 1.00 William P. O'Connor, New York City 10.00 Wm. R. Ryan, '11, Qeveland, O. 15.00 
Marine Corp League, Chicopee, Mass. 10.00 Lewis, J. O'Shea. '31. New York City 5.00 Eugene C. Ryan, Cleveland, Ohio —~. 5.00 David C. Morley, Windsor, Ont. 1.00 John F. O'Neill. Chicago. HI. 10.00 
Harry J. Merrick, Detroit, Mich. 1.00 M. J. O'Connell, jr..'3S. Warrenton. Va. 10.00 
C. J. Scudder, New York Oty 
Owen Morton, ICalamazoo, Mich. -_— 1,00 Rev. F.M. 0'Connell,'14. aoudersport. Pa. 10.00 10.00 
John Schlintz, New York City 
Irvine F. Mandie, New Yorlt City — 10.00 Wm. J. O'Connor. '35, Milwaukee, Wis. 5.00 5.00 
Studebaker Corporation, South Bend— 
J. H. Meehan, Philadelphia, Pa. 5.00 Francis J. O'Malley, '32, Notre Dame 26.00 2,000.00 
John H. Shcchan, '37, South Bend 
T. E. Morgan, New York City 5.00 Ambrose O'Connell, '07, Washington— 100.00 25.00 
Alex Sievers, '27, Elkhart. Ind. 
Francis L. Mellon, Mt. Vernon. N. Y. 10.00 A. E. O'Kecfe, '33, Verona, N. J. 1.00 1.00 
John F. Sloan. Jr., '33, Peoria, 111 
5.00 

Thomas J. Muldoon, Boston, Mass. 25.00 Andrew E. O'Keefo, Kearney, N. J. 10.00 
Charles L. Schwartz, Salina, Kas 
5.00 

William P. Murray, Co>*tesvilIe, N. J. 6.00 John O'Donnell, Davenport, la. . 6.00 
John Sullivan, Butte, Mont. 
....... UU111V.11I, UULLe, iUOni. 5.00 
Jerome J. 5*iller, '17, Fort Wayne, Ind. 25.00 T. H. Oaas, '16, Butte, Mont. 10.00 George M. Jfallett, "36, Cincinnati, O. 10.00 Fred Oke, Butte, Mont 1.00 
Felix H. Saino, '18, Memphis . 5.00 Edward T. Shea, Memphis 10.00 
G. J. Moriarity, '3$, LaCrosse, Wis 15.00 Thomas Enunett Oakes, '31, Boston 10.00 
R. E. Stritch, Memphis 25.00 Matthew Maddock, White Plains, N.Y. 1.00 James Oliver, 2nd. '04, South Bend 500.00 
John Maddock, White Plains, N. Y. _ 2.00 Joseph D, Oliver, jr.,'el.'23. South Bend 500.00 
J. C. Sutton, Memphis 10.00 John J. Moran, '36, New York City..-12.00 Elmer Q. Oliphant, New York City-50.00 P. K. Au Seidman. kn:iuiiiuii. Memphis lUUfHiJIIlS .
. . 10.00 Francis H. Mosher,'31, Brooklyn, N.Y. 20.00 Joseph I. Obermayer, New York City 10.00 L. Charles SchalTler, Memphis 3.00 
Joseph Madden, New York City 10.00 Ometco Supply Co., South Bend 25.00 L. C. Schairicr, Sr., Memphis — 5.00 Thomas S. Markey, '29, Akron, Ohio 5.00 
David Saxon, Jr., '29, Memphis . 5.00 
Malcolm Saxon, '36, Memphis .
Michael A. Matteis, Union, N. J. 12.50 Dr. A. G. Plankon, Dubuaue, la. 10.00 5.00 
R. H. SwiUler, St. Louis .
A. E. Miller, '27, Princeton. Ind. 5.00 G. A. Phillips, New York City __ 10.00 10.00 
Carl Savage, New York City 
Ernest E. Moore, South Bend 6.00 Andy Pilney, '36, Chicago,^ III. 5.00 10.00 
Nathan Schweitzer, New York City .
Richard F. Meyer, Patcrson, N. J. 5.00 Rev. George A. Parker, Chicago, HI*. 10.00 376.00 
Nate Shapiro, Detroit .
J. B. Moorman, Cincinnati, Ohio 25.00 Sam Parker, Butte. Mont. 1.00 I.OO 
R. D. Sullivan, Minneapolis 
Wm. H. Miller, '30, Jackson, Miss. _. 1.20 James Pendergast, '34, Memphis, Tenn. 1.0D 6.00 
Robert J. Schmelzle, '37, Freeport, 111. 
Dr. H. J. Jlurray, Stamford, Conn. — 10.00 Robt. E. Puryear.'SS, Jonesboro, Ark, 2.00 6.00 
Wm. Schmidt, '35, Woodhaven, N. Y. 
12.00 

W. P. Moran, Oklahoma City, Okla. 60.00 P. A. Phillips, Memphis, Tenn. 10.00 
M. A. Sterback, Bridgeport, Conn. —.— 
Mr.-Mrs. Henry Morrow, Louisville 25.00 Don J. Plunkett, '29, South Bend 30.00 25.00 
James Sherman, Lincoln, Nebr. 
Paul Maholchic, '35. New York City _. 9.00 John R. Petrick,'24, Montevideo, Minn. 20.00 1.00 
Rigney J. Sackley, '17, Chicago 
Mrs. Florence M. Mahler, Scarsdale, N.Y. 10.00 Anthony J. Puglicse,'34, New York City 5.00 25.00 
Joseph R. Schroeder, '31, Minneapolis 
Patrick J. Manley, Brooklyn. N. Y 20.00 Frank H. Plaisted, South Bend 5.00 10.00 
Paul J. Smith, '16, Washington 
Thomas Meinhardt. Tulsa. Okla 5.00 T. R. Patton, Youngstown, Ohio 5.00 25.00 
E. C. Schonlau, '17, Syracuse, N. Y. — 
Cornelius H. Mahall. '35. Lakewood, O. 10.00 A. H. Puder, Newark, N. J. ^ 10.00 10.00 
Louis Schiavone, Jersey City, N. J
Harry J. Maloy, Lakewood, Ohio 10.00 Joseph Patemo, New York City 25.00 25.00 
Col. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, 
Karl E. Martersteck. '29, Lakewood, O. 16.00 Harrison J. Piercc,'37, Gard3n City, N.Y. 10.00 
Lawrenceville, N. Y Don C. Miller. '25, aevcland. Ohio 25.00 Walter Powers, '35, Jamaica, N. Y— 5.00 10.00 
R. J. M.iiancc, '38, Qcveland, Ohio..-1.00 J. Carroll Pinkley, '28, St. Louis, Mo, 5.00 5.00 
Mortimer Sprague, New York City—.-. Ralph G. Schwebcmeyer, Newark 
Thos. P. MuIligan.'SS, Cambridge, Mass. 6.00 Dr. John C. Petrone,'27, Suffern, N. Y. 25.00 5.00 
Wm. H. Spiegelberg, Jersey City, N. J. 
Rev. James J. Moran,'27, Lowellville, 0. 12.00 Mrs. A. S. Powers, Richmond, Va. — 1.00 10.00 
Hon. Joseph L. Smith, Newark, N. J. 
Msgr. Chas. A. Martin, '17, Cleveland 10.00 W. D. Phelan, Davenport, la 25.00 6.00 
A- John Sheps, Newark, N. J. 
Gerald W. Miller, '25, Cleveland, Ohio 10.00 Dr. Neil L. Parsons, Damariscotta. Me. 2.00 2.00 
Miss Irma Sperry,' Piqua, Ohio 
Eugene A. Miliff, '29, Rocky River. O. 16.00 Clarence Pierson, Philadelphia, Pa. — 1.00 1.00 Rev. M. h, Moriarty. '10. Oeveland, O. 100.00 Phil Prendergast, '31, lakewood, Ohio 10.00 100.00 
Mr. & Mrs. \V. S. Smith, New Orleans Robt. IJ, Morrisscy. '35, Cleveland Hts. 6.00 John P. Payne. East Qeveland. Ohio 10.00 10.00 
Mrs. Marguerite C Sofge, Cincinnati 
P. F. McShane, Chicago. III. 100.00 James E. Petran, Milwaukee, Wis. — 1.00 L. T. Shaw. '22. Burlingame. Calif. — 25.00 Cyril F. Stroker, '37, New York City ­
Peter McDonnell, New Yoik City 10.00 25.00 
R. M. Snooks, '36, S t Louis 
James McDonnell, New York City 10.00 Edward R. Quinn, '28, South Bend 20.00 12.00 
Michael C. Spadafore, Fremont, Mich. 
C. F. McTague, New York City 10.00 Daniel J. Quinlan, '17. Lowell, Mass— 20.00 50.00 
R. J. Scott, Houston, Tex. 
Jos. A- McConville. New York City— 5.00 Thomas D. Quigley, '12, Cicero, III. _. 50.00 2.00 
Paul lc"sUceirar?Tulsa76kla. 
J. J. McLaughlin.'34, Cumberland, R.I. 10.00 F. E. Quish. '11. Detroit, Mich. 6.03 5.00 
Shaw, Naess & Murphy, Chicago _
M. J. McCormack, '99, Memphis. "Tenn. 20.00 Daniel O'Quinlan, '38, Soperton, ^Vis. _ 5.00 100.00 
W. A. Sullivan, Jersey City. N. J. __.
Donnell J. McCormack. '36. Memphis 5.00 Jack Quinlan, '33, Soperton, Wis. 5.00 5.00 
Davis E. Seidman, New York City -. 
Lewis J. McNichols. Memphis. Tenn. 5.00 Joseph W. Quinlan. '26, South Bend-35.00 5.00 Thomas L. McKcvitt '32. Washinjrton 10.00 John J. Quinn, Rahway, N. J. 10.00 10.00 
William M. Schuyleri South Bend 
James P. Swift '24, Dallas, Te.^ 1AX> C. McElroy, '10, E. Nonvalk, Conn. 50.00 Charles M. Reagan,'16, New York City 60.00 
G. E. McKay, '30, Minneapolis, Minn. 1.00 25.00 
Don Spencer, New York City 25.00 Leo R. McAloon, '30. Pawtucket, R. I. 50.00 H. Rarick, Detroit, Mich. 1.00 Robert Sweeney, '03, London, England 250.00 
Franklin A. Swazcy, New York City .. 
Sims D. McGuire, Chicago. 111. 50.00 G. J. Ray, New York City 10.00 10.00 
Frank X. Slater. '27, Los Angeles 
Dr. John A. McCaffrey, Brookbm. N.Y. 5.00 John Roberts,. Scranton, Pa. - 6.00 30.00 
William T. Slater, 
John J. McGovern. Pittsburgh. Pa. — 10.00 Samuel Rosen, Philadelphia, Pa. 10.00 
Jamaica Estates, N. Y... 20.00 

O. R, McMahon, New York City 6.00 Robert B. Riordan. '24, South Bend-21.00 
Charles Schuler, Jr., Davenport, Iowa 10.00 
B. v. McAdams, '27, Cleveland, Ohio 10.00 John J. Roche. Staten Island, N, Y 6.00 
Frank Schierbrock, Davenport, Iowa 10.00 
F, J. McCarthy. New York City 10.00 I Ray Ruble, Butte, JFont. 1.00 
R. E. Sullivan, AVichita, Kas. 50.00 
Mai. W. J. McKieman. Middletown. Pa. 5.00 1J. C. Ryan, Butte, Mont. 10.00 
William A, Scully, New York City 25.00 
James L, McKenna. Newark. N. J". — 10.00 Edward J. Rogers,'17, Milwaukee, Wis. 10.00 Hon. Jas. J. McMahon. Montdair. N.J. 10.00 Paul Rush, '12, Memphis, Tenn 15.00 
W. M. Steward, New York City 10.00 
L. F. Stander, South Bend 10.00 
Curtis W. McGraw. New York City— 25.00 James A. Richmond, Washington, D,C, 10.00 
Frederick J. Slackford, '18, Cleveland 60.00 Gordon McKeo. Sterling. 111. 1.00 Frank W. Regan, Belleair, Fla. 10.00 
W. H. McEioy, Parkersburg. W. Va. 1.00 Murray A. Russell, '32, Bethesda, Md. 10.00 
Carroll A, Stiley, '33, Lakewood, Ohio 1.00 
H. Lewis Stettlcr. Jr., '30, 
V, R. McMillan. Terre Haute. Ind. — 100.00 William J. Reid, '2G, Brooklyn. N. Y. 5.00 
Rocky River, Ohio 10.00 Raymond A. McGee. '24. Mt.Vernon. N.Y. 30.00 J. S. (SUx) Rcilly, '29, Houston, Te.T, 10.00 6.00 
A. J. JfcCann. '30. New York City _. 20.00 Lawr. Rossiter, '32, Hartington. Nebr. 26.00 
I>ancis J. SeeUe, *35, Lakewood, Ohio Frank S. McGee. '33. New York City-W. D. Rollison, Notre Dame 
16.00 35.00 Frank Svobodn, '31, Cleveland 10.00 
20.00 Joseph L. Sweeny, '27, Cleveland 25.00 
Rev, J, F. McShane, '97. Indianapolis 6.00 David K. Richards, Class of '61, Wash. 2.00 William T. McDonough. Brooklyn. N.Y. 2.00 Samuel E. Richards, '34, Washington 10.00 Walter E. Travcrs, New York City 10.00 
J. M. McGrath. ir..'35. New York City Rudolph Rice. '19, Washington, D.C 10.00 
John S. MeKternan.*34. Providence. R.I. 10.00 Louis J. Rcgan,*29, Minneapolis, Minn. 2.00 Dr. Anthony B. Traub, Chicago . 10.00 Paul L McDermott, '22. St. Paul. Minn. 10.00 C. E. Rock, New York City 26.00 Francis J. Toomey, '34, New York City 10.00 Henry D. McGar\'ey. Tulsa, Okla. 5.00 Dr. E. F. Rooney.'19. New York City 6.00 Willard Thompson, Butte, Mont —.— 3.00 
F. J. McCarthy, jr.. '32. Sunnyside. N.Y. 25.00 Elton E. Richter. '26. South Bend 36.00 J. P. Turley, Notre Dame 20.00 
T. Walter McGrath. Philadelphia, Pa. 1.00 James Reeves. '34. New York City— 25.00 Joseph ^iery. Memphis, Tenn. 1.00 William McConoghy, 2nd, Ardmore, Pa. 1.00 .Tohn B. Rooney. Newark, N. J. 10.00 W. W. Turner, 'lO, "South Bend — 5.00 George McCabe, Davenport, la 25.00 Stcph. P. Ratehford. So. Orange, N.J. 10.00 V. W. Theisscn, '27, Minneapolis — 10.00 Harry McFarland, Davenport, la. 10.00 John P. Rogers, Newark, N. J. 5.00 Gene Tunney, New York City 10.00 
J. G. McCrone. Detroit, Mich. —. 5.00 John R. Rogers, Newark, N. J. 25.00 William H. Thrall. New York City . 25.00 
McAIpin Hotel, New York City 25.00 Carl A. Riebling, Buffalo, N. Y. 5.00 Wm. J. Toussaint UUca, N. Y. 5.00 Frederick H. Rea, Patcrson, N. J. — 10.00 Louis J .Thornton, '29, Notre Dame 100.00 
N. D. Club of Cleveland, Cleveland, O. 100.00 Mr.-Mrs- Edm. M. Rively, Altoona. Pa. 25.00 Timothy J. Toomey, '30, New York City 20.00 
Toledo Oub of N. D. and N. D. Oub Joseph J. Rossati. '31, Brooklyn, N. Y. 25.00 Edward A, Traas, Elkhart. Ind. S.OO of Toledo, Toledo Ohio 50.00 Dr. John B. Reardon,'24, New York City 25.00 John F. Tomkowid. Yonkers. N. Y. — 5.00 
N. D. Alumni Ass'n of Ala^n, Ohio 100.00 Michael B. Reddington,'26, Indianapolis 10.00 Paul C. Thole, '35, Evansville, Ind. 10.00 
N. D. Qub of Greater Louisville 75.00 C. F. Regan, jr., '27, New York City 20.00 Joseph H. Thompson. '21, Cleveland — 10.00 
N. D. Alumni club of Rhode Island & George H. Rohrs, '33. New York City 10.00 
S. E. Massachusetts 50.00 Peter Rizzi, Lead So. Dafc. 25.00 William M. Untermann, Newark, N. J. 25.00 
50.00 

N. D. Oub of Western Pennsylvania 227.55 Dr. Edward C. Ryan, '16, Chicago, HI. J. J. Unger, New York City 5.00 
10.00 Edward R. Neahcr. '37. HoIIis. N. Y. 20.00 Clarence A. Reitz, '05, Evansvflle. Ind. 
E. J. Nash. Butte. Mont. 1.00 Joseph R. Rudd, '29. Saintc Marie. HL John J. Untermann. Newark, N. J. — 5.00 
10.00 Charles P. Neill. '93. Washington, D.C. 25.00 R. F. Rogers.'35, Rockaway Beach, N.Y. Leo J. Vogel. "17, Pitsburgh. Pa. . 25.00 
20.00 Alfred C. Nacel, Newark. N. J. 10.00 Rev. J. A. Rath.'OS, Floral Park, N.Y. Robert D. Veghte, Newark, N. J. 10.00 
20.00 I.OO I

John Nolan. Kow Gardens. N. Y. 25.00 John J. Ryan, jr., Ardmore, Pa. Vincentian Fathers, Whitestone. N. Y. 10.00 
1.00 

Ezra L. Nolan. Jersey City. N. J. 5.00 John J. Ryan, sr., Philadelphia, Fa— Dr. J. G. Villapiano. 
5.00 

O. W. Nckh. Sooth Amboy. N. J. 10.00 Carl Richards. Tulsa, Okla Asbury Park, N. J. 10.00 
5.00 I

James Nolan. '37, Hempstead. N. Y. 10.00 J. J. Reidy. '27. Rocky River, O. James L. Vallely, '27, Kimherly, Nev. 10.00 
GIFTS FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL (Continued) 
Joseph A. Vinci, LeRoy, 2C. Y. ,- I.OO 
Vanderbilt Hotel Employees. 
New York City 25.00 
Charles V.ilentine. Brooklyn. N. Y. 1.00 
George Vergara. '25, New York City -. 25.00 
Morris Van Valkcrburff, Tulsa, Okla. „ 5.00 
David Van Wallace, "27, 
Mt. Clemens, Mich. ___ 25.00 
Wm. VanUooy, '32, Hock River, Ohio__ S.OO 
Walter J. Wells. New York City 25.00 
T. Howard Waidron. '34, Trenton, N. J. 5.00 Fred Wagner, '29, Tiffin, Ohio 5.00 
W. L. Wenzel, '20, Mt. Vernon, N, Y. 6.00 Charles Woolfolfc, Butte, Mont 5,00 Walter J, Walsh, Cincinniiti, Ohio 5.00 Bailey Walsh, '27, Memphis, Tenn. 10.00 James W. Wrape, '25, Memphis, Tenn. 10.00 
J. W. Welch. Memphis, Tenn. 5.00 Thomas C. Wade, Locust Valley. N. Y. 10.00 John Walsh, WashinBton. D. C. 10.00 Hugh E. Wall, Jr„ '3e. Washington _ 10.00 Henry A. Wimberg, Evansvilic, Ind. — 50,00 George A. Wagner. '28, Sanduskj-, O. _ 1,00 Dr. W. Butnett Weaver, '07, 
Miamishurg, Ohio 25.00 Thomas J. Welch, '05, Kewanee. 111. _. 50.00 John J. Wnls. Santa Monica, Calif 2.00 Francis Walther. '25, New York City _ 12.00 
J. V. Wilcox, '23, Minneapolis, Minn. .. 5.00 Mrs. Harriet M. Windheim, 
Concord, Mass. 1.00 Arthur Walsh, '12, West Orange, N. J. 23.00 
E. A. Wctzler, New York City 25.00 John F. Winters. Kew Gardens. N. Y. 10.00 Douglas Williams, Detroit, Mich. 1.00 
ROCKNE ACTIVITIES 
(Continued from Page 135) 
Robert Buckner, script writer for 

Warners, who wrote among other 
scripts the one for the Academy-rec­
ognized "Jezebel," was at the Univer­
sity for several days in February, do­
ing research for the film among the 
persons who knew Rockne, the ar­
chives of the Alumni Office and other 
sources of Rockneana. 
Some of the scenes of the picture will "be taken against a campus back­ground, with spring football practice prominent. 
Every insurance has been given that the film will be thorough and in keeping with the great work that Rockne did. 
The film is expected to be ready for fall release. 
Highway Marker Dedicated 

The Rockne Club, which has kept alive, under the leadership of Dr. D. 
M. Nigro, '14, the memory of Rockne in that area around Bazaar, Kansas, where the fatal crash occurred, this year, on March 5, dedicated a perma­nent highway marker on the main highway at the spot where the side road turns to reach the exact spot of the crash, some four miles distant. The actual crash site is already marked by a monument erected by the group. Outstanding personalities and radio broadcasts were to accompany the dedication of the new marker. 
Observances 

Many Local Clubs, either near Mairch 4, Rock's birthday, or March 31, anniversary of the crash, are hold­ing memorial Masses. 
Jos. V. Walter, Jr., Detroit, Mich— I.OO Adrian J. Wackerman, '33. 
L. Willig, Fort Wayne, Ind. 5.00 Philadelphia. Pa. 10.00 Bay C. Willhauck, Toledo, Ohio 5.00 Margaret Wilson. Philadelphia. Pa. 1.00 
A. Harold Weber, '22, South Bend _ 100.00 Henry C. Wurzer. '25. Davenport. la. _ 250.00 John J. Winberrj-, '28, T. J. Walsh, Davenport, la 1.000.00 
Rutherford, N. J. _ 25.00 Edward P. Walsh, Davenport. la. 50.00 Joseph A. Walsh, '26, Notre Dame -25.00 John L. Weisend, Cleveland. Ohio 20.00 John J. Wingerter, '28, John W. Wadden. Cleveland. Ohio 5.00 
East Orange N. J. „ 10.00 Edward G. Walter, Detroit, Mich. 2.00 
W. Harold Welsh. '21. Brooklyn. N. 30.00 
George F. Winkler, '30, John H. Yauch. Jr.. Newark. N. J. 2.00 F.^r Rocfcaway, N. Y. _ 24.00 Merton F. Yeager. Jr., Cleveland. Ohio 6.00 
J. Ward, Jr., Brooklyn, N. Y. . 12.00 Daniel H. Young, '22. John A. Welch, Indianapolis, Ind. 10.00 Pleasantville. N. Y. Harold A- \VilIiams, Jr., '38, Baltimore 5.00 Wood Pile Co., Newark, N. J. 10.00 Ed J. Zimmers, '35. Racine, AVis. 10.00 Ted Wall, Newark. N. J 1.00 Joseph Ziegler, Summit. N. J. 10.00 
(Ed. Note: The final list of contributors to Total new gifts-JS 26,521.23 the Rockne Memorial will be published in the Previously acknowledged . _ 213,578.69 
ne.\t issue of the ALUMNUS.) Grand total to date ..;240,099.g4 
J^ ^^ 
'«*<,^/r. 

Spring Practice initiated, through 1929, or $400 a year 
And on Cartier Field the boys who, for every $100 contributed by the em­after all, form perhaps the most sig­ployee. These payments were, of nificant living memorial to Rock, are course, less (or nothing), through the working out in his beloved spring bottom of the depression, but returned practice. Under the Rockne-coached to 20 per cent in 1937. When a mem­coaching staff, they are learning the ber of the Plan reaches 60, or is dis­fundamentals, not only of football but abled, he receives from the fund the of its gi-eater implication, that made entire amount of his credit there. Rock so much more than a football 
The Plan has, obviously, many ram­coach. 

ifications of administration not within Knute K. Rockne, '14, is not for­the scope of this article. Its practi­
gotten. R. I. P. 
cal success is exemplified, however, in the recent case of a Joslyn employee, SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI a member of the Plan for 20 years, (Continued from Fase 145) who received $31,827 against his in­
dividual "contribution of $3A4S. 
The company in turn binds itself to pay into the fund not less than 10 Mr. Joslyn received his law degree per cent of earnings, but not more at Harvard in 1896. He was married than four times the amount paid by to Alice Cecelia Newell, of Faribault, employees. In actual practice, the Minnesota, and became the father of company paid in 20 per cent of its four children. His home is in Hins­payroll from 1919, when the Plan was dale, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. 
1939 NOMINATING COMMITTEES! 
President Ambrose O'Connell, '07, announces the following committees to nominate the candidates for the 1939 national Association election: 
(a)
 George L. O'Brien, '91, South Bend, Indiana, chairman; Joseph Clark, '34, Natrona, Pa., and Robert V. Dunne, '26, San Francisco, Calif. 

(b)
 William A. Draper, '07, Chicago, chairman; Thomas Byrne, '28, Cleveland, and John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit. 


Committees are designated a and b only for identity. They rank equally. Officers to be nominated are honorary president, president, two vice-presidents, and a director for a 4-year term. 
Nominations will be printed in the May ALTIMNUS and ballots will be sent to all alumni about May 1. Voting is by mail and results of the election are announced at the Alumni Banquet, June 3. 
» » »
ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO 
William P. Cass, '32, 235 Capcn Blvd., Pres­ident; Frank J. Cass, '35, 233 Capcn Blvd.. Secretarj-. 

The Xotre Dame club of Buffalo held a meet-ins and election of ofTicers on Friday, Janu­on* 27. 1939, at the University Club. The new officers for the coming year are: William 
P. Cass, president; Martin J. Travcrs, vice-president; Francis J- Cass, secretary'; Donald 
W. Love, treasurer. Board of Governors: Lionel V. O. Smith, Donald Jacob!, John Travers, William Mcascr, Edward Kcmpf. Jack McKendo'* Robert Moore, Ralph Else, Carlos Frank. 
Plans have been arranued for an Easter dance to be held on April 8 in the Hotel Siatler. Music will be furnished by Charles Freeman and his NBC orchestra. 
Lionel V. O. Smith has been appointed gen­eral chairman of the dance. He will be as-sited by the following: reser\'ations. Jack Mc-Kcndrj'; reception, Gordon Bennett; patrons, John H. Travcrs, Jr.; programs, Martin J. Travcrs; decorations, Hcno" Burns; music, Henry Weiss; campus representative, Frank RcppcnhaKcn. 
A meeting and bowling party was held on February 20. 1939, at St- Gerrard's Lyceum. Joe Bach not only set pins to get in shape for spring practice but rolled the high score of the night, 300, with the nssistance of four pin setters. 
Our noonday luncheons which are held on the second and fourth Monday of every month in the main dining room of the Hotel Tour­aine have become a popular habit with the local alumni and friends. All visiting alumni are cordially tnWted to drop in. 
The Buffalo alumni, with Jim Costin, former sports editor of the South Bend "News-Times." conducted a joint meeting of the Buf­falo ctub and the local high school seniors who are interested in N.D., at which moving pictures of last year's football games were shown. This meeting was held in the g>'m of the St. Joseph Collegiate Institute. 
Lionel V. O. Smith and John M. Travcrs were appointed to represent Notre Dame at the annual college day on March 7 at Bennett high schoQl. 
Our treasurer, Donald W. Love, was married to the former Miss Srarj' Persons on February 21, at St. Louis Church in Buffalo. Lots of luck. Donl 
Ralph Else is now located at Auburn, New York, where he is connected with the XS. S. Government. 
Frank J. Cass. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
John Lauid, *34, 4 Hedffcwood Are^, Sdwa­
eetadr. President; MiAael Ledinr, *33, 1M7 

GtUespie St., Scfaenectady, SecrcUry. 
President Jack Land has completed arrange­ments for the Univ-ersal Notre Dame Night meeting, April 17, at the University Club in Albany. The dinner will be followed by elec­
tion  of  officers. Selected football  films  will  
also be shown.  
Mike Ledtng.  

CHICAGO 
James T. Igoc, '32, 328 S. Jefferson. Presi­dent; John T. Clark. '35. 4738 Wmshincton Blvd., Secretary. 

The evening of January 31, 1939 marked the retirement of the o/Ficers of the Chicago Club for the past year and the election of new leaders for 1939. The election followed a dinner held at the Chicago Athletic Club under the supervision of Frank McGreal. who also served as toastmaster on the occasion. The new ofTicers are as follows: Elmer J, MTiitty, honorarj- president; James T. Ifoe, president; Thomas Donovan, first vice-presi­dent ; Donald O'Toole, second vice-president; John F. Clark, secretary; Bert L. Metxtcer. treasurer: Bruce Holmbcrj;, governor; Thomas McCabe. governor; Francis J. Oelerich. gov­ernor. 
Frank McCurrie, the retiring president whose splendid work for the past year was evidenced in the treasurer's report; was like­wise retained as a member of the board of governors for the coming year. 
Following the election of officers the club had the pleasure of hearing Father Frank Cavanaugh, CS.C., deliver both a ^-crj* enter­taining and educational after dinner speech. The evening was climaxed with the showing of the movies of the Notre Dame-Army game with AssisUint Coach Joe Benda acting as Commentjitor and doing an CKCclIent job in his description of the game. 
Arrangements are being made for Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 17, 1929. Edward B. Ryan has been appointed chairman and judging from some of the excellent ideas being presented for consideration, it will be One of the fine=t parties the club has ever had in its history. The affair will be held at one of the downtown hotels with accommodations for a thousand or more people. 
Father Flanagan of Boys' Town, Nebraska, will be the principal guest and speaker. Like­wise Coach Harry Stuhldreher of Wisconsin who will very capably represent the "Big Ten." The chairman will appoint his commit­tee as quickly as possible and while it is true that they will have a task of rather large proportions to put this party over, it will be greatly lightened by the early and active co­operation of Notre Dame men throughout the city. Tables will be allotted in the order the reservations are received. Be assured of a good location for you and your group by con­tacting Ed Ryan and reserving your table now. 
The latest addition to the club's long list of activities is the handball tournament, which is under the very capable guidance of John Dorgan. According to the present plans the tournament will be held at the Lake Shore Athletic Club. Those participating will have the pleasure of using the cIuVs excellent facil­ities for a very nominal sum. All members who are interested in taking part in the tour­nament are urged to contact John for further information and reservation at State 1468. 
The purpose of this column is to keep you informed as to the activities of your fellow graduates. As a reader, do not hesitate to send in information that would be interesting to 
your fellow alumni. Please forward all script to the secretary at the above address. John F. Clark. 
CINCINNATI 
Joseph S. Morrissey. '28, 200 G. Front St.. President; Donald Dixon, ex. ^4, €03 St. Paul Bidff.. Secretary'. 

The annual election of officers of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Cincinnati, was held at the regular meeting held on Tuesday, Febru­ary 7, at the Kemper Lane Hotel. The follow­ing officers were elected: president, Joseph Morrissey; vice-president, Walter Nienaber; treasurer, Robert Van Lahr; secretarj-, Donald 
E. Dixon. 
For the first time in the history of the club the office of honorary president was created, and Howard J. Rohan, one of the most loyal alumni in this vicinity, was unanimously elected to fill that office. 
Hunk Anderson who, in conjunction with Chief Joe Meyer, did much to improve the football situation at the University of Cincin­nati during the past scjison, has resigned his position as assistant coach at that institution and will return to Detroit and resume his pri­^•ate business and coach the Detroit Lions professional football team. 
Ernest DuBrul, who has the enviable distinc­tion of holding more degrees from the Univer­sity of Notre Dame than any other living alumnus, was the recipient of congratulations recently upon his fortieth wedding anniversary. 
Dick Shiels has finally announced that he intends to desert the ranks of bachelordom within the near future. 
The club will shortly be called upon to select a new treasurer, inasmuch as Doc Van Lahr, who has ccpably filled that office, has unexpectedly announced that he intends to move his residence permanently from Cincin­nati and will reside in California. We are sincerely sorry to see Doc leave us, and hope that he has every success in the future. 
George Mcister recently suffered the loss of his father, and George Aug the Joss of his brother. Both of these deaths were sudden and unexpected, and we extend our sincerest sj-mpathy to these members and their families. 
Donald Dixon. 

CLEVELAND 
Karl £. Martcraleck. '29, Willtamson Bldg., President;' G, Albert Lawton, *35,' 2097 Wyandotte Ave., Lakewood. Secretary. 

We have just been advised by the Alumni Office that copy from the various clubs must be shorter than formerly. It's an economy measure, so let's pay our dues! 
The Rockne Memorial drive is still under way. Results to date have been very encour­aging. At last check there were 93 contrib­utors accounting for a total of $1,628. In addition, the club has paid $100 to assist in defraying the expenses of conducting the cam­paign. Our committeemen have - done a re­markable job, and to them our best wishes for the attainment of our goal 100 per cent. 
The first week-end of the Retreat is over, and as this is being written the second week­
end is in progress. The response of members has been sratifyinc- We are in hopes that the final count will show that 150 men have at­tended during the three week-ends. 
Since our last issue both Frexy Martcrstcck and Tom (Telephone) Byrne have become fathers for the second time. Both babies are girls, and in both cases the older child is a toy, so prayers are being answered. 
Al Laivlon. 

DETROIT 
Howard F. Bccchinor, ex. 'OS, 220 Ford BldiT., President; Rlalcolm F. Knaus. *26, 211 Curtis Bldir.. Secretarj-. 

Jim Armstrong was with us in Detroit for our February 6 meeting. There were 95 pres­ent for the dinner at the University Club and those who came after the dinner brought the total well op over 100. The evening was des­ignated as "Dad's Night" and. in the list of those present, we recognized the names of many who have sons at Notre Dame. 
Frank McGinnis, chairman for the evening, distributed copies of the new Alumni Direc­tory of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit for which he is personally responsible. Everj-one appreciated the very fine job he did in com­piling this first directory. 
Harr^- F. Kelly who, as you know, is our new secretary of state in Michigan, is chair­man of the Retreat held annually at Manresa, storting with Lent. The dates this year are February 23 to February 26. inclusive, and 35 men are attending. 
Jim Armstrong spoke briefly, and in general, on alumni club activities and also in reference to the Rockne Memorial campaign, which is as this is written at its peak in Detroit. Everyone enjoyed the five reels of campus movies that Jim brought with him, 
Gus DoraJs, who is general chairman of the Rockne Memorial Fund Detroit campaign, and Hunk Anderson, who is alumni committee chairman of this campaign, both spoke and gave reports of their progress. 
Malcolm F. Knaus. 

GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Robert Barke, '36, 2114 Doniclass BoaicTard, LooiBTiUe, President; Paul Bfartersteck, '34, 2303 Barvel], Lonisville, Secretai7> 

TTie Notre Dame Club dance, following the Notre Dame-Kentucky basketball game, was a financial and social event that eclipsed all rec­ords. We are all grateful to Nick Rosier for his splendid management. 
We understand that Vince Hanrahan. *22. has moved into Ixiuisvillc, but haven't located him as yet. 
Al Saleh, '34, was transferred from Sea­gram's Jjouisville plant to their Relay, Mary­land, plant where he will assume his duties as operating engineer. 
P. J. >Iartersteck. 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Arthur C. Shea. '22. 256 N. Meridian, Presi­dent; Francis J. NoU, '31, 1103 Merchants Bank BIdff., Secretary. 

Under the able directorship of Arthur C. Shea, *22, president of the Indianapolis club, the Monday luncheons are becoming more popular and better attended each week. Late­comers at these affairs find it difficult to get scats so it may be necessary to have larger quarters. After each luncheon the members are entertained by some speaker of promi­nence. 
Thomas J. Umphrey. *34. is the proud father of a son born several weeks ago. His wife and son are reiwrted to be doing very well. 

Many Notre Dame men were seen at the Butter-Notrc Dame basketball game here Wed* nesday, March 1. This event, being the only opportunity Notre Dame followers have to see a team in action without making a trip to another city, is alwa>'s an Important date about this time of year. 
Tentative plans are being made for the Universal Notre Dame Night here, April 17. Frank J. NoU, Jr. 
LOS ANGELES 
C Frederic Pique, '30, Hammond Lumber Company. Sooth AJatneda. Calif.. President: Charles J. Kennedy, ex. '29, 160S E. Wind­sor Road. Glendale« Calif., Secretary. 

We had a meeting on the night of February 7 to make tentative plans for the night of April 17, Universal Notre Dame Night, and also to complete arrangements for our annual Retreat which will be held March 3 to 5 at Sierra Madre. As only a handful of the mem­bers attended I shall list their names for you. They were as follows: James T. Fitz­patrick. Harry Faull, Charles S. Mnrphy, John 
L. Hogan, John Paul Cullen, F. T. Mndd. G. 
D. KIcDonald. Charles J. Mclver, F. B. Haghes, Tom Ashe, Ed C. Ashe, Ted Strong. Art Erra, 
P. H. Brccn, Jim W. Kelly, Leo B. Ward. Jim 
R. McCabc, J. R. MulUn, Jr., Fred Piqne, Frank J. Barry. Ed P* Cunningham. Father, Angelo Hamilton, the Sierra Madre Retreat director and myself. Frank Barry, who is the Retreat captain this year, appointed 11 men as his football team to line up retreat-ants ; each man is to bring at least two others with him so it is quite possible that we will 
, have a good representation at Sierra Madre— if Frank's system works, 
Charles J. Kennedy. 

MEMPHIS 
Galrin Hodson. '15, Parkrteir Hotd. Presi­dent; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Colombian Mu­tual Tower. Secretary. 

We had our annual meeting at the Tennes­see Club on December 28. We had a delightful dinner and a rousing speech by Charles BL Bryan, a member of our club and one of our outstanding lawyers here in Memphis. The following list of new officers were elected for the forthcoming year: Galvin nudson, presi­dent; Jerry Folcj-, vice-president; Donnell McCormack. vice-president; Bailey Walsh, secretary; and Sturla Canale, treasurer. 
In addition to this, following the sugges­tion of Michael J. McCormack, Rev. Raymond Meagher, of St. Peter's, was appointed our chaplain for the forthcoming year. This is a practice not heretofore followed by our club. 
At the meeting, we also elected Charles 

M. Bryan, honorary president of our alumni club. He succeeds the late beloved honorary president, James M, McCormack, of Memphis. 
P. A, McPhitlips, who is the head of our Rockne Memorial Fund drive, spoke at our meeting, and some pledges were made to the fund. The drive is receiving our close atten­tion. 
Bailey Walsh. 

NEW JERSEY 
Dr. Paul A. O'Connor, '31, 157 RoscTiOe Ave., Newark, President; John R. Blauda. '31. 172 Passaic St., Passaic, Secretary. 

Future club meetings will be held in the Essex House, Newark, on the second Monday of each month. The change (from the first Monday) was made after a sun*ey of members by Tom Tracey and Ray Geiger. 
Bucky O'Connor and Bill Carter have al­ready been appointed as a coniiaittee to arrange for the club's next New Year's Ere Ball. Harry Grattan, as chairman of a com­mittee to stimulate attendance at nieetinss, reported that the club should consider a bowl­ing league, clam bake and other additional activities. Harry and his committee will in­vestigate further and make specific sugges­tions. 

In charge of Universal Notre Dame Night are Andrew O'Kecfe, JaA White and Dan O'NcilL In charge of the annual St. Pat­rick's Day dance were Tom Tracer, chairman; Harvey Rockwell, Didc Dcrridu, Dan Yoanff, Phil Heinle, Pete Qnina, Tom Flynn and Ray Gciser. 
John R. Blanda. 

NEW ORLEANS 
Chaxlea da h Vcrsne. '25, iOl5 Maritime BIdff.. President: Avstin Boyle, '31, 621 Bonrbon St^ Sccrctazr. 

Another bimonthly dinner at Arnold's Res­taurant in the French quarter February 8 was a rousing success. Prior commitments to at­tend one of the carnival balls that night kept some • memters away, but 27 turned out, and wined and dined heartily. 
Guests of honor were Commissioner of Pub­lic Property Joseph P. Skelly, a Notre Dame fan who admitted skiving out of City Hall some autumn to go up and see the football team play, and George O'Brien, president of the big O'Brien Varnish Co., South Bend. Mr. O'Brien, guest of Patrick E. Barke, our honorarj' president, came here to Inspect lands in nearby Mississippi recently planted to tung trees. His company is the largest user of domestic tung oil. 
Fabian Johnston, Val LeBIanc and John Saxton Ted off for the older grads, and Larry "Moon" Mnllins and Lionel Farret spearhead­ed the youth movement. Honorary members Edward Schwartz and A. L. Vitter, Sr.. made their customary graceful talks. 
Alumni at their first meeting of the newly-reorganized club, introduced by President de Is Vcrgne, included John B. O'KeUey, *19. and Frank David, a more recent graduate, who is here with the United States Engineer's office. John E. Ryan, president of the Young Men's Business Club here, had to attend a previously-scheduled meeting and wired regrets. The officers are on the trail of other eligibles and hope to have them in the fold soon. 
At the suggestion of Rev. James J. Qninian, C.S.C., the club voted to inaugurate informal luncheon meetings every Monday in the St. Charles Hotel restaurant, for local and visiting alumni. 
Among recent visitors, whom not all of us were able to meet, were Jack Chcvigny, who got 'that touchdown "fop the Old Gipper* against Army in 1028, and George Bams, '28, mainstay of some of Tommy Mills' baseball teams. 
Named to a committee to make plans for a Universal Notre Dame Night meetlns in April were Fabian Johnston, lioncl Farret and the secretary. The club noted with regret the death December 28 of Alvin Hovey-King, United States Navy. Retired, a former "minim" who had teen one of the most faith­ful in attendance at our meetings. 
Anstiq Bi^Ie. 

NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel D. Halpia, *3t. 429 RiTerside Dr.. President; Robert A, Hamilton, *28, fiS Wall St , SecreUry. 
Daniel D. Halpin, '31, is the new president of the New York Club. Other ofHcers are Warren Foffel, \-ice-president; Bob Hamilton* secretary; Joe Friel, treasurer; Ed Ncaher, assistant secretary. The new Board of Gov­ernors is composed of the follouing: John Balfc, Jordan Hargrove. Dan O'Ncil, Don Schl, Leo McLanshlin. Jack Hoyt, William A. Walsh, F. J. JlcCarthj-, James Rizer, John HJnkc] and Thomas Lantiy. 

In a hrieC report on the election of officers. Bob Hamilton (who must certainly be the world's most efficient and effective club secre­star>') says that everything planned a year ago by the then-new officers was accomplished under the direction of President Dan O'Ncil (to whom many of the Alumni Office's best orchids). The cro'wninE achievement was the publication of a club directory. Secretary Hamilton was the head man in that activity, and World's Fair visitors may get a copy of the directory in his office. 
Says Hamilton: "The new officers will have one heluva time keeping CNcil's pace—^but xf they do they'll be able to say that they al least equalled the best and most active year we've ever had in Uttle old N.Y." 
On De<Mmher 27 between 50 and 60 of the alumni with their wives and s\veethearts at­tended the annual Christmas Dance of the Metropolitan Club, held this year at the St. Moritz. Met Club Prexy George O'Neil and his committees should be congratulated for running such a fine affair. The dance was so well attended that many couples -were turned away because the management feared the floor would not hold them. 
With the permission of the Canada Dry Corporation and Dan O'Ncil of the A. T. & T. the Club presented its o\vn "Information Please" profrram on January 31 under the chairmanship of genial Jack Hoyt. Frank Graham of the Kew York "Sun," Christy Walsh of sports writing fame. Herb Kopf, Manhattan College football coach, and Ed Fitzgerald, Columbia's swimming coach made up the board of experts with General Phclan of the 2Cew York Boxing Commission as judge. With Jack Hoyt tossing cigars at both ques­tioners and answerers an enjoyable evening was had by all. 

Taking advantage of a Rockne Memorial Committee meeting, the Board of Goi-emors and the staff of the New York "Alumnus" welcomed Father O'Hara home from South America at a dinner at the New York Athletic Club on February 8. 
The club .members turned out en masse on February 11 to witness the trouncing of N-Y.U.'s basketball team by the Notre Dame squad at Madison Square Garden. After the game most of the club members danced far into the morning at the Centre Club to the tunes of "Bugs" Walthcrs* orchestra. 
C.Y.O. acti%'ities have been making rapid progress under Paul Maholchic's fine guidance. All local college conferences have also been well attended by alumni to foster interest in Notre Dame among high school graduates. 
The club helped to sponsor Paul McGuire's recent lecture at the Waldorf-Astoria ballroom on the "Christian Revolution." We were the only Catholic college alumni group to partici­pate in this fine event. 
Flans are now under -way to make big suc­cesses out of both the Bockne Memorial "Father and Son" Communion breakfast on March 26 and the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner on April 17. The Mass for Rockne will be ce'ebrated at the Chapel of Our Lady» St. Patrick's Cathedral at 9:00 a.m. Breakfast (S1.25) will follow at 10:15 at the New York Athletic Club. Jimmie Crawley, Judge Don­nelly, Judge Giorgio will speak. 
"Ghost" Harsrove. 
PEORIA 
William J. Motsctt, *34, 616 Bisdow St„ Preiident; Ridiard H. Delaney. "ST, 221 N. Glenwood, Secretary. 
AVe had a touch of sadness in the death of Bill, '37. and Boh. ex. '38, Brown's father here in Peoria on the 26th of November. Friends of the two alumni are asked to pray for him. 
The club had a Christmas dance that was a social success in a hugh way. but again this year the income didn't quite match the outgo. Since there was a surplus in the bank account, I don't think we will have to fear the coming of the sheriff. 
The dance v.-as under the direction of John Sloan, Tom McSwccney and Bob Brown who planned a nice evening. They presented Al Gury*s pictures of the Notre Dame-TlUnois game at the intermission and we were lucky to have Ben Sheridan present to expl^n the pictures and name the ball carriers. Ben is almost as good in front of a microphone as he was this fall in cleats. Bill Motaett was pres­ent for a few minutes and, instead of dancing, stood in a comer and beamed every time some­one mentioned his new daughter. 
The first meeting of the New Year was held at Endres Hotel. Thursday, January 12, with Al Gury as chaimwm. He had Carrol Hlnness of the American Airlines as speaker. He spoke of the convenience and comfort of commercial aviation of today and showed pictures that were sent down from Chicago by the airline for the evening. Tom Fitzgerald, '38, was present without his pal. Ed Snell, '38. who is applying the metallurgy he learned at Bchool in Caterpillar's Heat Treatment Department from midnight until eight in the morning. 
Ridiard H. Delaney. 
ROCHESTER (New York) John Dondiel, '31, 184 Cukir 8t, Pnsl­dent; John Norton, *36, 80 BcdcwiA Tcnmee, Secretary. 
The Rochester Quh, says Bcmle Hennessy. rather than the New York Club, should have the credit for inaugurating the custom of having an annual Communion Sunday for Notre Dame clubs. The Rochester boys, re­ports Bemie. had their first annual Commun­ion Sunday on December S, 1937, and repeated on December 4, 1938. 
All of which the editors are delighted to record and emphasize. Roll on. Rochester I 
SAN ANTONIO 
John A, Bitter, *30, 302 Caita>«» Sm Antonio, President; Dudley S. WaBccr, Jr., ex. '38, 138 Kttheiine Court, San AntmUft, Secretaiy. 

Bill Dielmann. *25, sent along with his con­tribution to the Rcckne Memorial f^nd some news of the SJV. crowd. The football broad­casts brought them together last fall. Bill said, usually at the home of one of the mem. hers. One of those present was Fatiwr Fred­cridc Mann, a local Redemptorist. 
Bill reports that Leonard Hew is the father of a new baby boy, his third child. Also that Johnny Bitter is now in his father-in-law's 
. lumber business, that Joe Gastreicb spends most of his time in Corpus Christi with a steamship' company (Joe's wife died last August) and that Harold Tynan is still with the Public Service company. 
"I'm stiH trying to make an honest dollar in the building material business," Bill con­cluded. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Wniiam G. Teatcr, *34, 18 Vine St.. Bing­hamton, N. T.. Preaidcnt; James H. Hogan. '34, 62 Haiy St., Blnghamton, N. T., Sec­retary, 
The Notre Dame Triple Cities Club held its annual Christmas dance at the Arlington Hotel, in Binghamton on the evening of De­cember 27. Michael L. Sullivan, postmaster of the city of Binghamton, was the official ticket taker. As an added attraction an auto­graphed football with the names of the Notre Dame football players, was awarded. The affair was considered a social success as well as a financial success. 
Harold Desnoyer of the class of '34 and whose home town is Malone, New York, was married during the Christmas vacation to Miss Theresa Kinkavagel. The ceremony took place in the Log Chapel at the University and Father Finnegan, C.S.C., ];}erformed the rites. Mrs. Desnoyers comes from Susquehanna, Pennsylvania, and is a graduate nurse of the Binghamton City Hospital. Harold is a teacher of vocational subjects at the Binghamton North High School. The club wishes the newlyweds the best of luck. 
Regis >L McNamara, *32, tells me that Art Htmrn, '35, of Waverly, has been appointed district construction engineer on the PWA for Tompkins, Cortland and Tioga counties. 
Ed O'Brien, '24, who has opened his new law offices at Endicott, is a proud father of a baby boy. It was bom on December 22 at the Ideal-Ho^i tal. 
Robert McCabc. '36, is now connected with the Homode Baking Company of Johnson City. 
Stewart Osborne, '34, reports that Paul Kane, '34, former Notre Dame varsity baseball player, is doing nicely in the accounting de­partment of Vincent Astor and Company in New York City. Paul is doing well too. being the father of two children. 
Jim Hogan. 
WASHINGTON. D. C 
Charles L. Farris. *33, 223 N. Glebe Road, AHington, Va.. President; Samuel E. Rtdi­ards. ex. '30, 2335 Fonrth St., N. W., Sec­retaiy. 
At the club meeting on January 16. Presi­dent Charles Farris appointed a committee to make arrangements for the annual pre-Lenten dance. The dance committee was composed of Tom BIcKevitt, chairman. Bemie Losh­baash. Clay Johnson, Bob Boykin, Charles Borda, Ed KJlmnrray, and Joseidi Borda. The dance was to be at the Hay-Adams House, a good mid-iron shot from the White House, on the evening of February 18. 
Bemie LoshbaoKh, '29, reports that Thomas "Bud" Markey, former president of the local club, was a visitor in the city over the week­end on January 27. As you know. Bud is now assistant general counsel of the Hrestone Rub­ber Company, and is stationed at Akron, Ohio. 
Alban VL Smith, *27, mayor for four years of I<B Porte, Indiana, one of the many sub* urbs of Notre Dame, and now deputy prose* cuter of La Porte County, also proud father 

March-April, 1939 
of four children), was in WashinEton for a week in January to attend to n client's claim against the Federal Government. 
Morton Goodman* *30, who is an attorney in the Federal Housing Administration at Chi­cago, also was in Washington the latter part of January to get full particulars from the housing authorities here concerning his new assignment as zone attorney for 11 mtd­westcrn states. 
Thomas Bradley, '29, of New York City, who is connected with an advertising concern, was in the city on business the early part of January. 
William P. McCnllongh, *30. who is em­ployed by the Pennsylvania State Employ­ment Service at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, visited Washington recently and attended our club meeting on February 6. Bill is a father for the fourth time, his wife having presented him with a girl on Friday, January 13. 
Carl "Swede" Christianson, '30, one of our enthusiastic members, who is connected with the Publicity Bureau of the liepartment of Agriculture, is running around very dejected-looking these days, after having been forced to cancel four golf engagements recently due to rain, snow, and high winds, and requests advice as to the best possible w-ay to restrain Jupc Pluvius or the snow man long enough so he can shoot a round of golf without any interference. Swede won a cash prize recent­ly from one of the local newspapers for the best short storj- submitted on the life of Knntc Rockne. 
Bcmic Loshbaugh, '29, and Haro* "Hcz** Ambrose^ '25, are both employed as architects in the Federal Government. Incidentally, they are married to the Lind sisters, natives of Ohio. 
John E. Ryan, *32, is with the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, with offices in the Woodward Building. John says his better half has no objections to his correspond­ing with some of his old classmates and he would like to hear from Neil Hurley and Frank Obcrkoctter and others, if they have sufficiently recovered from "wTiler's cramps." 
William M. Duffy, formerly with the Secur­ities and Fxch&nge Commission, is newly married and is now engaged in the private practice of law with offices in the Woodward Building. 
Larry Maher, ex. '33, who hails from the state that has a monopoly on the "com in­dustry," is undoubtedly the busiest human in these parts. Larry is married and holds a re­sponsible position in the General Accounting Office. 
The club extends a hearty welcome to the following ncu' residents of this city: Jack Cassidy, '30, who has been transferred to the Washington office of the American Laundry Machineo* Company. located at 1635 Connecti­cut Avenue, N.W.; Jrfin Leddy, '29, who was appointed as an attorney in the Department of Justice: Hon. Robert A. Grant, '28, of South Bend, newly elected congressman for the third congressional district of Indiana; Tom Bath, '29, of South Bend, secretary to Congressman Grant; Philip Konop, of South Bend, who is an attorney in the National Bituminous Coal Commission. 
For the information of out-of-town Notre Dame men who may happen to be in Washing­ton on business, the local club meets the first Monday of each month through Hay at the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Raleigh Hotel at S:30 p.m., 12th and Penn­sylvania, N.W. President" Farris appointed a committee comprised of Leo Mullen, Jack Cas­sidy, and Jack Kinkel to provide some novel entertainment for the meeting of March 6. 
Calling Bob Hellrnng, '30, of St. Louis, Mis­souri, class secretary of the "thirties," and Warren Fogel. '30, of New York City! We have read with interest your column regard­ing the reunion that was held at the Army-Notre Dame game last fall.- It was a genuine treat to read about many of the "old-timers." Bob's suggestion that some of the "mysterios" give an account of themselves for the benefit of their "old cronies" is very much in order. 
Samuel E. Ridiards. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
Hugh J. Lodcr, ex., '32. IQi Capitol Stcvct, Charleiton. Fresiaent; John Caddey, .'37, 1521 Lee St., Charleston, Secretary. 

Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Loder have recently an­nounced the birth of a son, in St. Francis hospital. 
Paul Smith, assistant football coach at Hin­tou high school, has been appointed athletic director and head coach at Sacred Heart high school in Charleston. The appointment Is to Le effective with the opening of the fall foot­ball season. Smith played varsity football under Coach Layden, and also was captain of the "B" team. 
Local club members are busily engaged in making preparations for Universal Notre Dame Night. Flans call for a dinner at the Ruffner Hotel and an election of ofncers for next year. Special guests will include local civic leaders, and Paul Smith, the new- Sacred Heart high school football and basketball coach. 
John Cackley. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hugh A. Gallagher, '30, 1501 HcFarland Road. Monnt Lebanon, President; Donald Martin, '33, 20< S. Graham St . Plttsbnrth. Secretary. 

President Hugh Gallagher brings the calen­dar up to date with a summary of club events since last fall. A good turn-out of the boys greeted Joe Bach and John "Clipper" Smith on November 23. Joe was in town with his Niagara University football team to play the Smith-coached Duqucsne lads. On Sunday, December 11, the club members joined with other Notre Dame clubs in receiving Commun­ion in honor of the Immaculate Conception and to offer a spiritual tribute to Father O'Hara, a United States delegate to the Pan-American conference. 
One of the outstanding events of the Pitts­burgh social season was the club dance on New Year's Eve. Al Dicbold was the general chairman and Hugh reports that Al's magnifi­cent efforts, and the cooperation of the com­mittees and general membership, produced a memorable affair. The proceeds were contrib­uted to the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
Alumni and their fnends attended the club Retreat at the St, Paul of the Cross Retreat House the week-end of January 20-22. TTie prize for distance went to Joe Bach, who drove in from Niagara to attend. Last year, Joe, one of the originators of the club Re­treats, drove from Florida to register for the week-end. Fritz Wilson was the Retreat chair­man this year. 
Hugh said that Father Vtnce Brennan, '32, stationed in Tarentum, Pennsylvania, about 20 miles out of Pittsburgh, is a frequent attend­ant at club functions. 
1937 Legal Directory 
(Additions and Changes) 
ILLINOIS 
Chicago
BREEN, John A., AB , "35 Kinne. Scavel, Robwn !t Murphy 160 N. LaSalle SirnI 
LOUISIANA 

New Ortcata 
DREUX. WilGam B.. AB., -33 842 Canal Bank Building 
OHIO 

Cincinnati 
KINNEARY. Joseph p . AB , -28 Suite 308. Atlas Bank Building 

Toledo 
FAZEKAS. SleiJien 752 Edison Building 
WASHINGTON 

Port Angeles
NELSON, Thomas H, Ll-B.. 34 
111 Mon e Building 

CATHOLICITy IN SOUTH AMERICA 
(Continued from Page 138) 

itself to the most diverse economic conditions, it awakens vocations, and even among the Christians who have not joined in its ranks it works a transformation which gives to the Catholicism of the Bio de la Plata in 1939 a character that is completely distinct from that of 1890 or even that of 1900." 
This, in brief, is a summary of my 

private mission to the Latin-American 
Kepublics. Wherever I went I was 
cordially received by the papal nun­
cios, by the Arclibishops and Bishops, 
and in every instance I was given the 
privilege of a frank, open discussion 
of Catholic problems. His Eminence 
Cardinal Copello of Buenos Aires was 
most helpful in two interviews; I was 
only sorry that His Eminence, the 
Cardinal Archbishop of Kio de Ja­
neiro was away when I called. The 
civil authorities were not behind the 
ecclesiastical dignitaries in kind co­
operation, and I travelled from Santi­
ago, Chile, to Buenos Aires through 
the beautiful lake region of the 
southern Andes as a guest of the 
respective governments. They are 
certainly good neighbors. My hope 
and prayer is that succeeding years 
may bring closer and closer coopera­tion between the North and South Americans, to the glory of God and the general welfare of mankind. 
Francis J. Sheed, noted Catholic author and publisher, returned to Washington Hall on March 1 to speak on "Mob Psychology." Mr. Sheed has contributed to many Catholic reviews, both in England and the United States, and has three books to his name, N7iUUji of Marriage, A Way of Life, and Communism and Man. 
« « «
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the follow­ing engagements: 
Miss Agnes Leahy and Arthur J. McCann, '30, of Brooklyn. New York. 
Miss Mary Jane Holton and Nicholas J, Bohlinj;, Jr., '31, of Chicago. 
Miss Marie Dorothy 'Williams and John A. Jordan, '32. of New York City. 
Miss Ruth Elanore Flannerj- and Eugene 
J. Coyne, '33. of Pittsburgh. 
Miss Florence Marian Esan and Charles G. McNichols. Jr.. *35, of Chicago. 
Miss Jeanne Becker and Karl G. King, Jr.. *37, of South Bend. 
Miss Mary Helen Ewaniec and Edward W. PIschcr, Jr., *37, of Rensselaer, Indiana. 
Miss Eileen Frohmader and Louis W. Vcttcl, Jr.. *37. of Ashtabula. Ohio. 

Marriages 
Miss Bemice Lucille Stambaugh and John 
E. Fninklin. '2S, were married, December 31, in New York Citj-. 
Miss Mary Lauer Thometz and Vincent Carney, '29, were married, February 16, in Chicago. 
Miss Martha Kathrj-n Reece and Charles W. Hcincman, *29, were married, October 19, in Connersvillc. Indiana. 

Jliss Lydja Dornbush and Edu-ard W. Sheer-an, '31. were married. July 16, in San Gabriel, California. 
Miss Harriett Craycroft Mdntyre and Dr. Henry B. Asman, '32, were married, February 
4. in Louisville, Kentucky. 
Miss Doris D. Beaulieu and Francis C. Tomasi, '32, were married, in Washington, 
D. C. 
Miss Dorothy E. Ritter and John W. Kroe­gcr, '34, were married, February 18, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 

Miss Helen Swanson and John T, Ganahl. ex. '36, were married, Februarj* 18, in Los Angeles. 
Miss Beatrice Louise Miller and Danic] L. Deforest, '37, were married, February 25, in Indianapolis, 
Miss Marjorie Leutze and Glenn >V. Rich­ardson, *37, were married, December 15, in South Bend. 
Miss Marjorie McPherren and Eugene J. Ely, '38, were married, Noi-embcr 26, in Auburn, Nebraska. 
B'irfhs 
Mr. and Mrs. John Brcnnan, '24, announce the birth of a daughter, on January 9, in South Bend. 
air. and Mrs. Gcorffc T. Koch, '25, announce the birth of a son, on February 23, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Rabcy Funk, '25, announce the birth of a daughter, on January 1, in Amarillo, Texas. 
A- son, Leonard Mark. Jr.. was born to Mr. and Mrs. Leonard 3L Hess, '25, on February 
4. in Marathon, Texas. 
A daughter, Mary Alice, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Edward V. Crowe, '26, on November 
18. in Detroit. Michigan. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Mandcville, '26, an­nounce the birth of a son. on February 12, in JacksonviHe, Illinois. 
A son. William Charles, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Robert B. Cummins, ex. *26. on Jan­uary 23, in Mandan, North Dakota. 
A daughter, Janet Mae, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Alfred A. Schnurr, '28, on January 22, in Sanduski', Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. John T. Kcams, '29, announce the birth of a daughter, Ruth Anne, on Febru­ary 14, in Streator, Illinois. 
A son, Albert John, was born to Mr. and Mrs. John P. Waltz, '29, on December 16, in Canton, Ohio. * 
Mr. and Mrs. Karl Martersteck. '29, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Ann Therese. on January 23, ill Lakewood, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs, Louis Haslcy, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, on February 9, in South Bend. 
A son, George 'William, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George A. Heincman, '30, on Sei>­tember 17. in Connersvillc, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Touhy, '31, announce the birth of a son, Brian Matthew, on January 25, in Bayside, L. L, New York. 
Twin sons, Thomas and Terence, were born to Mr. and Mrs. Edward R. Brcnnan, '31, in Gary, Indiana. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Pierre V. Angcrmcier, '31, November 30, in Louisville, Ken tuck}'. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Rocthele, '32, an­nounce the birth of a son, on January 30, in South Bend. 
A son, James Stephen, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James P. Danchy, '33, on July 13, in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
A daughter, Brenda Lee, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Sherman W. Minsky, *33, on January 3, in Lima. Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Motsett, '34, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Mary Evelyn, on December IS, in Peoria, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Russell J. Leonard. '34, an­nounce the birth of a son, on January 9, in Louisville, Kentucky. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome J. Casing, *35, an­nounce the birth of a son, Jerome James, Jr., on January 1, in Chicago. 
Deaths 
Rev. George J. MacNamara, '04, assistant pastor in Sacred Heart parish. New Orleans, died suddenly on February 24. The funeral Mass was on February, with Most Rev. Joseph 
F. Rummel, archbishop of New Orleans, offi­ciating. 
Burial in the Community cemetery at Notre Dame on February 28 was preceded by a brief ceremony in Sacred Heart Church on the cam­pus at which Rev. John F. Byrne, S.J., of Detroit University, a half-brother of Father MacNamara, officiated. Also present was his sister. Sister Mary of the Incarnation, of St. Mary's parish, Melbourne, Kentucky. Rev. Walter O'Donnell, C.S.C, accompanied the body from New Orleans. 
Father MacNamara, a native of Covington. Kentucky, was ordained to the priesthood on June 26, 1909. Unfailingly cheerful and sym­pathetic, a humorist and a born "mixer," he was one of the most popular priests on the campus during his assignments to Notre Dame. He ser\-ed locally as a teacher, as rector of Walsh Hall, and as chaplain of St. Joseph's Hospital. South Bend. 
Camille McCole. A.M. '27, president of the Catholic Poetry Society of America, a member of the Notre Dame English faculty from 1927 to 1934, died in New York on January 15 after an appendectomy, followed by pneumonia. Professor McCole received his A.B. from St. Norberfs College in 1926. With Professor Andrew Smithberger, of the English Depart­ment, he had published while be was at Notre Dame a poetry textbook called "On Poetrs'." This was followed, recently, by his "Lucifer At Large," a critical book on contemporary American writers. He was a fre<iuent contrib­utor to many periodicals. 
Upon leaving Notre Dame, Professor McCole became a member of the faculty of St. John's College, Brooklyn, and subsequently he was engaged as a lecturer by other colleges in the New York area. His wife survives him. Pro­fessor Smithberger and Professor Earl Lang-well, of the Modern Language Department, attended his funeral Mass in Green Bay, ^Vls­consin. 
Richard Robinson Brooks, ex. *34, of Chica­go, was killed in an accident last Christmas Day, according to brief word relayed to the ALUMNUS by the Prefect of Religion. 
Alvtn Hovcj'-King, a one-time Minim, died in New Orleans on December 28. 
John A. McCafTery, ex. *21, died on January 2 in Brooklyn. New York. Word of his death came to the ALUMNUS through Father James Burns, C.S.C., '88, assistant superior general. 
Francis J. Sturls, ex '03, Memphis, died on December 29 after being stricken on Decem­ber 22 with peritonitis. Secretary-treasurer and general manager of the Spencer-Sturla Funeral Home and a past president of the Tennessee Funeral Directors Association, Mr. 

Sturia was a leading Memphis citizen. Sur­viving are his wife and a sister, Mrs. George Canale. Jack Lynn, '32, thoughtfully sent word of Mr. Sturla*s death. 
Robert D, Naglcr, ex. '33, of Los Angeles, died in New Orleans on January 10 of lobar pneumonia. Bob's mother sent word of his death in inquiring for the address of Jess Hawley, one of Bob's best friends !n the campus days of '34-'35. 
Michael J. McGarrj-, '94, GS years old, for 43 years a practicing attorney in Los Angeles, died there recently after an illness of several months. An active and prominent student on the campus, Mr. McGarry was one of the out­standing citi7.ens of Los Angeles, serving in his earlier years as a park commissioner and as a Arc commissioner. He also served as exalted ruler of the Los Angeles Elks and as state president of the Ancient Order of Hiber­nians. Surviving are Mrs. McGarry, one son and three daughters, one of whom is the wife of Norman Feltes, '24, Glencoe, Illinois. 
Father James A. Burns, C.S.C., assistant superior general, forwarded a clipping on Mr. McGnrry's death. 
Peter J. Mccrsman. '13, one of the best known attorneys of Moline. Illinois, died sud­denly at Rochester, Minnesota, on February 9. Burial was in East Moline on February 13. Mr. Mcersman had been a member of the Mo­line library board since 1919 and out of respect to his memory the library was closed on the morning of the funeral. 
Thomas F. Shea, ex. '12, Tulsa, Oklahoma, died on August 22, 193S, according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. 
John A. "Jake" Purcoll. *26, widely known on the campus in his student days, died in London on January 15 following an appen­dectomy a few days before. Burial was in New Jersey the following week. Jake w-aa assistant manager of the Ix>ndon office of the Ingersoll-Rand Company. He is survived by his wife, three sons, two daughters, his mother, iivc sisters and two brothers. One of the brothers is Thomas R. Purccll, ex. '2S. 
Edward P. Clcarj-, Litt.B. '09. LL.B. '13, secretary of the class of 1909. died on Febru­ary 9 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, shortly after sufTering a "stroke" in the Cafe­teria on the campus. His brothers. Rev. Frank Cleary, Danville, Illinois, and Rev. William Cleary, East Moline, Illinois, together with Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. acting president of the University, officiated at the funeral Mass in Sacred Heart Church on February 11. Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., was master of ceremonies. Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, C.S.C, preached an affectionate and eflective funeral sermon. Burial was at Ed's "home town," Momcnce. Illinois. 
Ed taught in the. Notre Dame preparatory department while taking his law courses. After practicing law, going overseas with the A.E.F. in the World War and serving as a bank executive in Momencc, he returned to the cam­pus a few years ago to take up work in the office of the Comptroller. His kind and cheer­ful personality won him innumerable friends, particularly among the countless students with whom he came in contact. 
Surviving Ed, besides his two priest-brothers, is his aged mother, who resides in East Moline. 
•Hie ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to Egbert L., '23, and Andner A. Cartin, '34, upon the death of their mother; Father James Fogarty, '22 upon the death of his father; Franklin, *25, and John McSorley, '28, upon the death of their father; George Ang, '33, upon the death of his brother; John Verbanc, '35, upon the death of his father; Francis J> Geary, '37, upon the death of his mother; Frank Sweeney, ex. '19, upon the death of his sister; Andrew Aman, Jr.. '30,'upon the death of his father; Leo McLaughlin, '32, upon the death of his father; George Andrews, '34, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1880 Stcretair: Hon. T. F. Gal­oerore ioo",,gj„_ ntdibuw, Hui. 
1880 - 1885 StmUTTt Prof. Boliert M. Anienon, Cirdevillc^ Ohio. 
1886 Secntatr: Midiad O. Bams, 338 S. Second St, Hamilton, Ohio. 
1887 -1888 fr"*fZ\, \ V. ='•»"""• 
Connercrille, Indiana. 188 9 Secretory: P. E< Bnrke, 201 Camp New Orleans, Looisiaiia. 
50-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
1890-1893 ^c'^^'y* ^onia p. QMU, t 
Unir. Ave., Minneapolis, Bfiniu 
The quadruplet secretary comes through with 
this promotion for the Rockne Memorial 
Fund: 
"Classes of '90-93. let's AWAKE! You don't find these four Secretaries on the list of the Rockne Memorial—yet; nor did the Twin Cities add freely to the last summary. Maybe they were sooncrs and filled up the early col­umns with their SSS. However, will mention Ralph L. McGlynn of St. Paul, and E. Rubins of Minneapolis, who did "pretty good," worthy of emulation. Also note one James G. Blaine and a Major Bowes of New York. Ano Nymous did quite well; matched by Kilkenny of Ore­gon. I^Iessrs. Riddle, Rich & Samson, and Messrs. Gold & Silverman of Situs Various; 
B. Dobbin of Notre Dame (probably an execu­tive of the Studebaker Corporation), friend of Jack Bray of Paducah, Kentucky." 
A recent issue of "Ken" devotes an article to Benjamin C. Bachrach, public defender of Cook County (Chicago), Illinois. Mr. Bach­rach w*as appointed to the position in 1930 by Chief Justice John P. McGoorty, of the Crim­inal Court, now a part-time member of the Notre Dame law faculty. Judge McGoorty is the father of John P. McGoorty, Jr., '24. 
1Sd 4 Bccretory: HnKfa A- CDonneU, 1 W. 67th St . New York City. 
45'YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 

Hugh has some great letters for yon this month. Here's one from Frost Thorn: 
"It is hardly likely that I will be able to attend the exercises at Notre Dame this year, as our vacation periods do not start until later in the year, and at the time of the meeting, our business is very heavy, and no one can get away. 
"I would certainly enjoy seeing the old boys of '94 once more, and ask that you extend my greetings to them. . . ." 
Mr. Thorn is with the Agricultural-Livestock finance Corporation, Burk Burnett Building, Fort Worth, Texas. 
John Cooke, attorney at 100 West Monroe Street, Chicago, wrote this to Hugh: 
"In response to your recent favor, it gives me pleasure to state that I expect to attend the next Commencement at good old Notre Dame University, at which time and place I hope there will be enough of ns there for 'a little convention of our own.* 
"Sometime soon, I hope to yield to the urge, which has been besetting me for sometime, to set down a few reminiscences of the good old days, which, I trust, will prove helpful to you as secretary of the class." 
Chris Fitzserald wrote from Edificio "La Metropolitana," I^bana, Cuba, as follows: 
"Much as I would like to return to Notre Dame for Commencement, I do not see at this early date just how I can make it. Have not been there since 1917, and when I was on my way to the World War. However, we might have another war this year and give me an excuse to go back to Notre Dame, but we are a little old for a war, in years, but not in spirit, health or strength, thank the Lord. 
"Many thanks for your good wishes, that I he well, happy and prosperous. The first and second apply, but the 'prospering' is not so real, since the 'recession.*­
"That boot strap problem is still unsolved. I am glad to see you have retired and have the time to take nice trips to the North Cape and elsewhere. I am still hitting the ball." 
From Frank A. Bolton, judge of the Municipal Court, Newark, Ohio: 
"I woulti dearly love to attend Commence­ment exercises, but our class attendance has been primarily noted by its absence. I can­not say at this time that I will go, but if I 

. am so situated that I can, I will surely be there. I always go out once a year at least, during the football season. I am enclosing a picture of my oldest son, who will be sworn in as a practicing lawyer tomorrow. Will keep the Commencement matter in mind and see what I can do about it." 
From Manrice D. Kirby, written from the New Carlton Hotel, Los Angeles (his home address is 417 South XA)gan Street, I.ansing, Michigan): 
". . . Yes, I plan to be there and hope to meet all the fellows who graduated with us." 
From Charles S. 3IitdieII. LoUta. Texas: 
". . . if personal affairs permit, I'll prob­ably answer roll call next June, but do not . stote positively I wilt attend. 
"I*ast fall I took quite a 'roundance' with my wife and nephew, going to Washington, when I spent 10 days with Hash C BfitcfacU* thence on through Baltimore, Pittsburgh, South Bend, Chicago, St. Louis, 'nilsa, Dallas, Hous* ton—home. Entire tour—28 days. At South Bend, spent October 13 and two nis^ts at 
N.D.U. Saw what vras left of the jwrsonnel of our time except Fathers Bams and Frendi. Saw E. J. Maaras, F. X. AAcrmann, Dr. Ber­tclinr and Father VL Chased Father Bums an hour, but 'he got away.' Certainly some change in the place since 1894. The two lakes and the quadrangle "Were all that were famil< iar. All the rest was new stuff to me. 
"I see Fred Sdiillo once in awhile. Took dinner with him and his family in Houston last year. 
"Will be there if I can.'* 
18d 5 SecrcUry: Eustace CnlUnan, Sr.. 1401 " Mills Tower, San Frandsco, Calif. 
189 6 S^^tarr: WUUam P. Burns, 327 WUIard Ave, Wchienn City, Indiana. 
189 7 Secretary; Rev. J. A. MacNamara, St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Gemens. Mch. 
1898 ^^^^^^' William C. Keeler, 9th & Sycamore Sts. Cincinnati. Ohio. 
189 9 SecreUty: Dr. Joseph F. Daane, 418 *"*'*' Jefferton BWd-. Peoria, IH. 
40-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
1Qnn<.190 1 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan, 
cago, HI. 
190 2 Secretary: C. C Alitdiell, 110 Sontfa *^*' Dearhom St., Bor 3, Chicago. HL 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Butte, 904 a«rw«« jy^ t Co. Bide.. Milwaukee, Wis. 
190 4 Secretary: Robert E. Proctor, Monser *^ BHff., Elkhart, Indiana. 
3S-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
Trofessor Francis X. Ackcrmann, M.S. '04, 
•who has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1SS7, was the guest of honor at a dinner of the Lay Faculty club on February 

16. The Professor has retired from active teaching service, but still resides on the cam­pus. Remarks by Father John F. O'Hara, president, and Professor Daniel C. O'Grady, a poem by Professor Francis J. O'IMalley, and a humorous ode by Father Thomas E. Burke. besides student musical numbers, were included in the dinner proeram. Father Bernard J. Ill was the toastmaster. Professor John IL Cooncy is president of the Lay Faculty club this year. 
190 5 Secretary: Dai^Iel J, O'Connor, 10 S. **^*'*^ LaSftUe St.. Chicaffo. lU. 190 6 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 ^^ ^ Paulsen BIdff.. Spokane Wash. 
190 7 Secretary: Rer. noma* E. Burke, aS.a . Notre Dame, Ind. 

Father William F. Cunningham recently at­tended a meeting of the executive committee of the National Catholic Educational Associa­tion in Washington. D. C. Father Cunning­ham is vice-prei=ident of the association. 
190 8 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, BuBtley Bnildlnff. Cleveland. Ohio. 

1909 
30 YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 

For many years of outstanding service to the Mishawaka Boy Scouts, John Schindler re­cently receii-ed the Beaver award from the local Boy Scout council. 
191 0 SecKtaty; Rer. M. L. Hotiarty/ 19II Eadid Av e Clereland. Ohio. 
Georse Sands, South Bend, is the new county attorney of St. Joseph county. He succeeded Albert Doyle, '27, who became county juvenile referee following the death of the late Walter Hclnemy. 
\Q\\ SecrcUry: Fred Steers, I6U FInt National Bank Bldff., CUcaro^ m . 
A paper, "The Philosophy of Freedom," as presented by Father Charles Miltner, dean of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the College of Arts and Letters, was enthusi­astically received by the South Bend Round Table on February l. 
191 2 Secretary: B. J. K^ser, 324 VumHk St., Pittsborch. Pa. 
1913 ^"'^ ^ Byrne, University Llfcrary, Notre Dame. 
191 4 SecreUry: Frank H. Bajtu, 406 Bank of America Bnlldlnr, Anaheim, Calif. 
25-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
Class Secretary Frank Hayes has asked the South Bend lawj-er-philosopher. Walter Clem­ents, to be local chairman of the 25-year reunion. And Walter, of course, has accepted. Very soon you'll be hearing more from him about plans for the gala week-end. In case you'd like to reach him right away, with sug­gestion*; and reminiscences, send the letter fo Building & Loan Tower, South Bend. And then watch the May ALUMNUS for the later dope. 
Special note: the Rockne Memorial Field-house, now in partial uS2 by the students, "will be formally dedicated at the Commencement-Reunion. Hen of '14 will naturally have a special interest and a special part in this ceremony since their classmate, Knnte Rockne, is the man to be honored. 
It all adds up to one of the most impressive 25-years reunions in the history of the Univer­sity. Make your plans now to be present. 
Frank Hayes sends the following list of tliose whom he saw at the U.S.C.-N.D. game in December: 
"Tim Downey, *14, now known as His Honor, Judge Downey, Superior Court, Butte, Montana. Dacky O'Donnell. *I7. attorney In • Butte, accompanied Tim. 
"Dan Sullivan. '14, district attorney. Red­wood, California, Frank Canning, '14. business man, Oxnard, California, Emmett Lcnihan, *15, Seattle, Royal Bosshard, *I7, San Francis­co. Gus Dorais, '14, coach of Detroit U., Wil­liam J. Cusack. '14. attorney of. Los Angeles, Mai Elward, coach. Purdue U. 

"Bill Cook of our day, who played on team with Rock and Gus—since leaving N.D. has lived all over west and from Alaska to Old Mexico—now located Roosevelt Building, Los Angeles, 
"Thomas V. Trudcr, '16-'20. Las Vegas, New Mexico, Slip Kladiffan, '20, Norm Barry, *2I, Chicago, John Dcnvir, *08, Chicago." 
191 5 SecreUry: James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwell Ave., Chicaco, lU. 
191 6 SecreUry: Timothy P. Galvin, First Tmst Bldir** Hammond, Ind. 
191 7 SecreUry: Edward J. HcOdur. IM 
S. Union St, EWn, HI. 

Ed McOsker sends on this letter from Riff Sacklcy: 
"A few hasty words to inform you and the other 'journalistic luminaries' of the pre-war days. I had the great pleasure of having heard from the Kentucky Colonel, Lovis Pat­rick Harl, better known as 'Pat.' To think I had not seen or heard from him in over 20 years! 
"For several years I had been procrastinat­ing relative to writing him, and finally acted a few weeks ago. I told him as much as I could about Professor Cooney's boys of the 
March-April, 1939 
War Class, which he greatly appreciated, 
"Pat informed me he has the same size 
family as I, two boys and three girls, and the 
age range is very similar. 
"Louie Kicfer is the only old journalist he has seen, but he hears from Ed Bcckman and Emmett Lenihan, also from Prof. Cooney. 
"Sorry you were not at the annual dinner and election of officers at the Notre Damt* Club of Chicago on January 31." 
John Cassidy, new attorney general of Illi­nois, is in the midst of a "drive-to-the-finish" against slot machines in the state. Several recent murders in the state have been attrib­uted to slot machine activity. 
191 3 SecreUry: John A. Lcmmer. 1110— SA Ave., Escanaba, Uiddffan. 
191 9 SecreUry: Clarence Bader, 650 Pterc« Street. Gary, Indiana. 
20'YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
Chick Bader, class secretary, and Professor PanI Fenlon, Sorin Hall, Notre Dame. local chairman, are manning the big guns in organ­izing the 20-year reunion for the class. You'll be hearing soon from Paul, with plans and suggestions. And there will be more informa­tion in the May ALUMNUS. 
Francis C. King. Rock Island. Illinois, state's attorney of Rock Island County, has announced his candidacy for the Democratic nomination for justice of the Illinois supreme court. He is serving his second term as state's attorney and has just completed a term as president of the Illinois State's Attorneys association. 
192 0 SecreUry: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Blade BIdff., Loa Anseles. Calif. 
Slip Madigan. coach at St. Mary's College. California, and his wife were Notre Dame and South Bend visitors in early February on a vacation trip which was to take them to New York and thence back to California by way of the Panama Canal. 
Leo Ward used the Southern Cal week-end to whip up a lot of great dope: 
"Although Bill Dooley is using the same form of postcard, they begin to have a some­what sarcastic air about them. Consequently, it may be well to forward a few of the bucolic items in reference to the Notre Dame alumni who have been in this part of the country since last I wrote you. 
"Undoubtedly, report has reached Notre Dame by this time that U.S.C. was successful in their efforts to spoil Layden's record. You may not have had reports on those who made the trip out here to see the game. 
"Amongst those present was Francis Fox, now known as 'Bill,' who assured me that he was stilt conscious of the fact that he gradu­ated in 1920. He is sports editor of the In­diaapoHs 'News' and aside from the results of the same, enjoyed his visit here, particu­larly in view of the fact that some of Mrs. Fox's relatives reside in Hollywood. 
''Although I did not see him. I understood that Michael Edward Doran, like Bamum's circus, bigger and better with every appear­ance, made the trip. All efforts to reach him by telephone and leaving my name at the desk were without success, so I imagine he enjoyed himself. 
"Also present, but not for the express pur­pose of seeing the Eame was Obie Lockard. the Ohio taxicab tycoon. Obie, with Mrs. Lock­ard, was out here in the interests of combin­ing business with pleasure. In his serious moments he was hopine that taxicab meters in Ohio could run as far and as fast as those out here. It seems that Abie's rates are much lower and his labor bills much higher. Con­sequently, the margin of profit enjoyed on the Pacific Coast caused no little amount of envy. 

"Also present was Tom Trudcr, recent ma^-or of Las Vegas, New Mexico, also ex-district attorney of five or six counties in that state. When the Democrats went in, Tom Tnider went out. Tom's enthusiasm got the better of him and he, accompanied by Mrs. Trader, drove from Las Vegas and managed to get in the night before the game. This was Tom's first opportunity to see Notre Pamc play since 1919. 
"Norm Barry, dignified in appearance by a shock of grey hair, spent a good portion of his time running around the Los Angeles Bilt­more lobby looking for Mrs. Barry. It seems that he was always promising to meet her cer­tain places and was always any^vhere from half an hour to an hour late. 
"Also present, of the period around 1919 and 1920, were Morrie Starrett who proudly announced the fact that he had been assured that Miss Starrett, who was hardly old enoufih to qualify by age, has been assured by Father O'Hara that she will be the first co-ed to attend Notre Dame. That must be a standing joke because some 11 years ago I received that assurance from Father Cavanaugh. 

"Also from the Northwest was Emmctt Lcn­than who managed to combine business and pleasure by appearing in the Federal Court for the Northwest Brewers Association on Fri­day and viewing the foothaU game at Los Angeles Coliseum Saturday. 
"Howard Parker, secretary of the California Department of Finance, also developed a sud­den rush of business in the Southern part of the state during the week-end which the foot­ball team performed. 
"Judge George 'Obie' O'Brien managed to get away from the hospital, where the third child and first heiress to the O'Brien millions was born, and put in an appearance at the smoker Friday evening before the game. Obie ir. now residing in Los Angeles and has man­aged to reunite the original editorial staff of the Notre Dame 'Juggler.* He and Debnar J. 'Pinky* Edmondson seemed to get together and undoubtedly, within a short while, a new periodical will hit the streets. Del is still teaching Fnglish in the Glendale High School and I understand is also editor of the Maga­zine of the Air on a national hook-up 
"Of course, there were the old reliable repre­sentatives from the Pacific Coast in the per­sons of Slip Madigan, Gene Kennedy, Joe Sottner, Jimmy Fhelan, Keene Fttzpatrick, Elmer Wynne, Hoot King. Tom Heam, Char­lie Cusack, Back Shaw. Ed Hogan. Ed Ashe, Monk Marshall and a host of others present to hear the latest version of the Notre Dame stories told by Mai Elward, Gus Dorais and other products of the Brownson Hall Fhilo­mathean Society. 
"Taking it all-in-all, it was a great week­end. The boys enjoyed the re-telling all the old lies. Stan Cofall sent his regards and judging from Stan's Christmas card and the size of his family. I can readily understand how he can no longer travel about the coun­try taking in all the football games." 
192 1 SecreUrr: Ban W. VuSj, I6H T«r­
minal Tower, Clereluid, Ohio. 
Callix Miller received an unprecedented unanimous vote for president of the South Bend chapter of the Indiana Society of Ardii­tects at a recent election. 
192 2 SecreUty: Gcrmid Ashe, Buffalo Ath­
* leUc Qnb, Baffalo. New Tork 
More swell stuff from the Kid: "Our West Coast correspondent reports Cletc L>'nch, Gene Kennedy, and Jim McCabc present at a pow-wow in Los Angeles recently. 
"Elkhart Bill Haskins is now with the in­vestment firm—Amott Baker & Co. in New York City. 
"Much sympathy is being extended to Danny Culhane and_\vife over the death of a three­year-old son. Danny is with the Old Town Club in Chicago in boy guidance work. 
"Eddie Byrne is still filling the furniture needs of Natchez, Mississippi, and vicinity. 
"Reports are very scarce these days from , the Davcnport-Moline-Rock Island sector. We demand news of the Rhombcrgs and Ralph Cor>*n. 
"Jerry Jones still locates in the old home town—Dbcon, Illinois. 
"Had a surprise meeting with Perce Connel­ly in BufTalo a short time ago. Perce was enroute to Philadelphia where he is connected with the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co. 
"We rejoice to hear that Hunk Anderson has been selected as line coach for the Detroit pro football team. We predict some classy line play on the part of the Detroiters next season. 
"Or. Eddie Anderson, new*ly appointed coach at the University of Iowa, has selected Frank Caridco as assistant to coach the backfield players," 
192 3 SecreUxr: Fanl H. Caatner. 17 Cor­nell Road. Weit Hartford, Conn. 
Father Frank Cavanaugh was the speaker on January 11 when the South Bend Rotary Club at its weekly luncheon honored the Notre Dame football squad of *38. Members of the squad attended and were introduced by Chet Grant, backfield coach. 
192 4 Secretary: J. F. Hayes, Wm. J. Ped­rick and Co., International BnUdinr. Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
IS-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
Registrar Bob Riordan gave way under pressure, so he is your local chairman for the 15-year reunion. Bob writes: 
"1920 to 1924! Fifteen years since we were graduated: and what years they have been! Harding died while we were here and Cal took his place; then came Herbte with his double garages and potted chickens, all of which went just-around-the-comer about the time of our fifth anniversary reunion. The New Deal {whether you liked It or not) was getting up steam on our tenth anniversary; Now Johnny or Joan, as the case may be, will be ready for high school next year and, we hope, before the next five-year cycle will be ready for Notre Dame or for St. Mary's (again, as the case may be). 

"If you think you know what's wrong with the world, come back in June for the '24 gab­fest and tell us the story: if you don't know what's wrong with the world, come back and find out. Boy! will this gang have something to talk about. In any event, yon should get back here while there Is some semblance of the old campus you knew and before yon will need a guide to find the 'old quad* for you. 
"Jim Amutrwnx and Bill Dooley said I should make this a call to arms for the class of '2-1 but my bugle-tip hasn't been so good since the night Corby raided Badin. Remem­ber? There are a lot of other things you'll remember when you meet the gang again, which should be sufiTicient incentive. 
"All of a sndden I'm appointed (so Arm­strong and Dooley. again, tell me) 'local chair­man.' Never having local-chairmaned before. I'll need plenty of help, mostly in the way of advice. "What do you want in the way of special get-together parties, lunches, dinners, or what will you. Let me know and we'll try our hardest to give you what you want. It will help if you will let us know beforehand if you are coming; however, don't stay away if you fail to announce your intention to come. 
"Shouldn't we also jxmemher those of the class of *24 who can never return; perhat>s a Mass said hy one of our classmate priests? Again, it's your reunion and we want it to be the way you want it. so don't be backward (really. N. D. men aren't) about spealdng your mind. 
"There'll be another issue of the ALUMNUS out before June in which issue we hope to outline, at least, tentative plans. Watch for it. In the meantime, the sooner the better, let's hear from you." 
192 5 Secrctarys Joha P. Hoiley, 2MS BrMkdak Hud, Tried*. Ohla^ 
John Hurley sends this letter from Eddie Baker, who is with Peter Eckrich & Sons, Inc., Manufacturers and Distributors of luncheon meats and provisions. S^amazoo. Michigan: 
"I have been here in Kalamazoo since 1930 and haven't seen any boys from the class of '25 in the city. I had the misfortune to lose my dad in 1936 and at that time Henaan CentJirre, Manriee Boland, Bob Gordon and Dick App put in appearance. We had quite a nice visit and decided to get together some­time but it didn't materialize until the first of December, when my mother died and again those four faithful boys put in appearance. Again we had a nice visit and decided to get together as soon as iwssible. 
**Bob Gordon seems to be going well for himself as an attorney and Herm CentliTre is busy handling the advertising for (TentUvre Brewery and seems to be taking bis job pretty seriously. Both have a couple of nice children, according to reports. I do not know what Dick App is doing; he was in the shoe busi­ness with his father. Maurice Bohmd is still a bachelor and is working in the traffic de­partment for the Centlivre Brewing Corpora­tion. 
"As for myself it looks like I am perma­nently fixed here. I resigned from the 'Bach­elor's Club' in September. 1936. and Father 
J. Hugh O'DonneU made the resignation per­manent and positive. Since then we have been fortunate enough to acquire a baby girl and between that little 'Indian* and my job I am ' kept quite busy and out of mischief." 
"I do happen to have an N. D. alumnus, class of *31. working for me. His name is Gilbert D. Gandie. The two of us have man­aged to see several games down at sdiool and it does keep a little contact. In fact, one al­most has to visit the place every year in order to recognize it. so many changes have been made since 19?5." 
Rwwll Amdfs Hishawaka Hig^ School football team was honored on January 25 at 

s. testimonial dinner sponsored by the Misha­waka Lions. Elmer l,aydcn was the chief speaker. One of the special guests was Bcmic Wjtucki, ex. '34, coach of Washington High School, South Bend. 
1926 ^^^"'^^^'' James A. Ronan, 127 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Illinois. 
Joe Walsh, formerly of Wilmington, Dela­ware, is the new secretary to Father Hugh O'OonncII, vice-president of the University. 
Id27 Secretarj-: Joseph M. Boland, Athletic Office, Notre Dsmc, Ind. 
The class Eocretar>- dropped this in the Alumni Office just before he took off for a week in New England in the interest of the Rockne Memorial Fund: 
"It's been many a moon and at least one absence from this column since news of '27 has found its way into print in Mr. Dooley's province. However, the reports from the 'fur places' have been coming in, and gradually we're uncovering the mossbacfcs who gradu­ated in '27 and then went out into the world, no one knew where. 
"There's Frank Conway, for example: now, when Frank and your scrivener used to make the welkin ring in public speaking classes with 'Speak the piece, I pray you, as I pro­nounced it to you ... " I never thought that one day a letter postmarked Pueblo, Colorado, would find its way to my desk—yet it has, and that's where Frank is located now, with the County Public Welfare Department, offices in the Court House- He's still single, by the ivay, and able to reminisce about Dave Hickcy, Louis Hough, Chuck Raskcll, and several of the other lads: the reminiscing reminding me that these same haven't checked in to the Scrivening Desk of '27. 
"John McManmon dropped a Christmas card on the Desk, from his Highway Department job in Massachusetts; and Elmer Wynne was met up with in Los Angeles, while we were sadly viewing the wreckage of an undefeated season. Just to dispel the shroud of mystery that surrounds the intrepid Wynne, I'd like to report that I have his address, profession and most pertinent facts about him, all of which should amaze his many friends through­out the country who have missed hearing from the dashing F.B. of yore. Frank Hagcnbarth of the silvers* voice checked in at the Desk with his charming wife, on that same trip; he's now located in San Francisco. 
**A. J. Bradley, (you'll remember him better as Art) has been appointed head physical di­rector at the Newark, N. Y., State school, under the Department of Mental Hygiene of the state. He's in the middle of checking up on all the N.D.'ers in the area and reports good progress. 
"In this day of extolling the doubtful vir­tue of unbalanced budgets and spending our­selves out of the red, the recent elections held by the Chicago Club disclose the startling heresy of having a treasury healthily solvent and strong. Frank T. McCurrie, retiring prexy, and his able fellow officers modestly account for it by complimenting the support and cooperation of the club members in be­half of the many activities staged by the group. Present at the elections also were Eddie McLaughlin and Joe Delia Maria. The latter reports a receding hair line, and a con­nection with the Sanitary District as an engi­neer. Cnp to the secretary of class of '29— Fr«d Collins was seen and explained at length a ver>* interesting problem of research in which he is quite interested; has been doing a bit of radio script writing for one of the local stations). 
"An interested spectator at the recent Golden Gloves held in South Bend was BiU Brandenburg. He is now connected with the state, having his headquarters in South Bend. 
"Comes a lengthy and newsy letter from C. 

F. (Neil) Began, now located in Brooklyn, and employed as a special agent for the United States Casualty Co. He's married and has a son, Cornelius III, six years old, who evident­ly is well on the way towards becoming an able third to the periodic street comer dis­cussions engaged in by his Dad and Jack Lavcllc. Neil's talents are diversified to say the least—including as they do choir singing and religious instructions for high school boys once a week. Occasionally he sees Bill Riley, whom he reports as doing well. 
"Well, keep it coming in and we'll Arm-strong-DooIey it right back to you. Each time the report closes, the names of the many who have not reported rise to haunt your scrivener. ^\'here are those Bcrctz brothers?" 
192 8 Secrctar}- Louis F. Buckley, 1965 Biltmore St. N.W., Washington, D.C, 
Just before making a heroic attempt to get all of him into his "tux" for the Washington Club dance, Buckley crashed through again for you: 
"Your column covering the '2S news in the Ohio Valley •was very much appreciated last month, Joe Morrisscy. It is unfortunate (I would like to use stronger language) that the classmates have not given the guest writers a little news to pass along in the column. It takes only about five minutes to drop a line which would make it much easier for the col­umnist to give you all some news outside of what he is able to pick up in his immediate locality. The onlj* encouragement I have had in my ten years as your correspondent has been the fine cooperation which I have re­ceived from the men who have been selected to ser\'c as guest conductors of the column. 
"The only response I received in reply to my appeal in the February issue for addresses of missing classmates came from Laurence Win­gertcr. Larry was good enough to let me know that the address of Jim Berry is JR.F.D. 2, Stanley, New York. I discovered from the letterhead of Larrj-'s letter that he Is now director of promotion and publicity for the American Transit Association, 292 Madison Avenue, New York City. Thanks, Larry, for Jim's address. It is encoura^ng to laiow that at least one classmate read the column last month. 
"Fortunately, thus far I have met at least one new '28 man in Washington each month, so I have been able to make some contribution to the column. BiU Duffy put in an appear­ance at the alumni club meeting this month. Bill is married and practicing law here in Washington with offices in the Woodward Building. Bill took his law at Georgetown U. while working in the Department of Agri­culture. 
"Joe Doran was the only one to take me up on my offer to furnish addresses of classmates in exchange for some news. Joe wrote from 800 South 21st Street, Lafayette, IniiianB. for Frank Donovan's Racine. Wisconsin, address. Joe is in the restaurant business in I^afayette. 
I had the pleasure of spending a few hours with him this summer there. 
"I had my annual letter from my old room­mate, Joe Brannon, recently, who is still travelling 100,000 to 200.000 miles a year as a trouble shooter for Scars Roebuck on the west­ern coast. At the present time Joe is man­aging the Sears' store in Sacramento. Cali­fornia. 
"Dr. Andy Boyle did such a good job in 

arranging for our ten-year reunion that I am 
going to take advantage of his good humor by 
asking him to write the column next month. 
I am depending on the science and pre-medic 
men to give him some real cooperation in 
gathering jiews. Drop him a line at Chemis­
try Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. The deadline 
is April 22 for the next issue. Hti will be ex­
pecting a note from the following: Pete Beem> 
sterboer, Ed Conlin, Jim Cross, Marcus Far* 
rell. Frank Hegarty, Bill McGce, Bill Mahin. 
Georze O'Brien, Sam Romano, John Schmitz, 
Gerald Sheebly. David Solomon, Paul Tobin, 
John Viktoryn, Tom Walsh, Dick Wehs, John 
Worden.'* 
Chet Rice, our guest writer this month, came through in fine style. Chefs letter came from 'Wheeling, West Virginia, and is foaming over with news. Take it away, fellows, and thanks to Chet for the favor. Chet writes: 
"As a traveling salesman ('drummer to you'), I run into quite a few of the boys of '28 scattered here and yon. but the engineers seem to have gone into distant parts for I seldom sec any of them. 
"Tried to find Charlie Buffer in New York a couple of years back, but to no avml. Dick Novak, when last reported, was somewhere there but I couldn't locate him either. Ed Boyle. I believe, is still with the Pennsylvania Railroad although I wasn't able to locate him in Toledo. Joe Bairley is assisting in pro­moting the civic interests of Monroe, Michi­gan, according to Vincc Stace, one of the pur­chasing executives of Detroit Edison (all other traveling salesmen, please take note). Dutch Reider, I understand, is about to be one of the operating V.P.'s of the same company. 
"Red David, (who didn't answer my last letter, incidentally) is still with the War De­partment do%\-n in New Orleans, from last reports. 
"Who is promoting the best interests of the 
U. S. most—Bob Kirby, Frank Donovan, or Angie Grams? (Did you see Angle's picture with his daughter in 'Life'—^and he once bet me 510.00 I'd be married first—collection in order!) 
"Charlie Schuessler is still engineering with Pontarelli & Sons in Chicago when last seen. He told me that Joe O'Dowd and Hank Mass-man were doing big things out west some­where. Where is Johnny Gaughan? 
"Rnssell Smith and Roswell Leahy are, I guess, in Sandusky and Tiffin, Ohfa respec­tively, practicing the stem practicalities taught by Father Steinrr. 
"Dick Phelan, my genial partner in crime in Chicago, is one of the key executives of the Title and IVust Company and a very proud daddy. Remember the Phelan and Tobin com­bination down through the years—^well, Tobin is still causing the feminine hearts to flutter, with the able assistance of brother Jim and Ed Phelan—now that Dick is out of circulation —in Elgin, Illinois. 
"Bernard Zipperer, now holding forth in Columbus. Ohio, can be met nightly at Tom Hall's Tonight (corner of Parsons & Oak, Co­lumbus) with a regular patronage of old time Notre Dame men including Bud Mnrphy» Cene McCrecry. Ray Eichenlaub* and many others, 
"^Vhen in Athens, Ohio, see Jim Devlin for anything civic or pertaining to Ohio Univer­sity. Remember when he taught the boys from the big city how to play cards at 'Hullie & Mikes.' 
"Frank McCarthy, the genial Hoosier, is keeping his girlish figure at the Van Camp Milk Company at Indianapolis. 
"Jack Winjrcrtcr showed me around the March of Time studios in New York a conple of years ago—same old Jack. 
"Haven't beard from Art Dcnchficld since he returned to Brazil last year. I think he is still with the Singer Sewing Company workinB inland from Sau Paulo. 
"Met Tony Ceres a couple o£ years back standing at the comer of State and "Washing­ton in Chicago. Tony is practicing law back in New Jersey. 
"William Hanlcy Murphy, the whirling der­vish of Chicago, is due to visit me shortly. He keeps things active in the Beverly Hills sector of Chicago's great South Side—and, I mean active! If you don't believe me try a round of the South Side and see! 
"George Kellcy is city editor of the Youngs­town 'Vindicator' in Youngstown, Ohio, The reporters say George is a swell boss. 
"Is Igoe still in St. Louis selling iron. "What's the reunion story I heard about Igoe, a bag, n toothbrush and twelve bottles of milk? 
"What's happened to Doc Forge, Joe Bran­non, Johnny Carlin? 
"I see Bucky Dahman occasionally. Buckj' is in Cleveland with Republic Steel. Tells me Tom Byrne is a benedict. 
"Happen to be at a hotel in ^Vheeling, West Virginia, writing this, which reminds me that George Sargus is a thriving merchant here." 
Jack Canizaro's wife sent the following sw*ell letter from Jackson, Mississippi, to Chct Rice: 
"Jack has been going to make his where­about known to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS for some months, so when I took note of who was in charge of the next column and since we really have something to report—I decided to write the note for him. 
"Have thought of you often and wondered if you had settled down w-ith the Chicago Title and Trust, but note from the column that wanderlust has again taken hold of you—or did you just go home to mamma? 
"Jack and I are the parents of a fullback for the 1957 Notre Dame team. Robert Host Canizaro, born Christmas Eve. Jack thinks he'll make the team and is tr>*ing to toughen him up, but from the looks of things he may play the clarinet in the Band like his old man. 
"The South seems to be a good place to be right now. Business is good and we feel that we've done well this year. Thanks to the PWA, which has sort of submerged my mili­tant Republican spirit. Jack has a $100,000.00 auditorium and armory and a §300,000.00 fac­tory for the Armstrong Tire & Rubber Co., under construction at Natchez. Two schools and a city hall in Oxford. Two churches in the Delta and some residences in Jackson, Vicksburg and Natchez." 
Congressman Bob Grant, South Bend, is a member of the following committees in the present Congress: committee on committees, education and census committee, invalid pen­sion committee. 
192 9 S<^cretar}-: Joseph P. McNamara, At­tomcy Gen. Office, Indianapolis, Ind. 
10-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 
Comes this from the Chief Drum Beater, Attorney McNamara: "You can look up the synonyms for the terms 'greatest' and 'colos­sal* in your own dictionary: — the Twent>'­niners' reunion in June will be 'all' of them. 
"But the Big News is that at least two in­novations in the class reunion iield at Notre Dame will make their debut with the June gathering. These are a terse, up-to-the-minute 'Who's who' of the Class of '29 (for further details, consult your next class letter), and a series of professional or college symposia ('bull-sessions' to the initiate, but use the word 'seminar* in mentioning this to your wife or boss). 
"Capable WiUard Wagner has been asked to act as field marshal by the local committee, and in our next edition names of the boys who-won*t-let-George-do-it will be set forth as our written guaranty that you will have the time of your lives in June. 
"Also in our next edition will be the details concerning the participation of the class of '29 in the dedication of the Rockne Memorial, in­formation regarding the ten-year smoker, and data with reference to the Class Memorial Mass. 
"The time since the last report on the state of the 'Twenty-niners* seems to have slipped away as easy as money. For that reason your harassed correspondent is happy to turn the spotlight on a couple of splendid letters that are really collectors* items. The first brings the breath of orange blossoms to a Middle West landscape cellophaned in sleet, as Joe Hc&s reports from 6150 ^Vilshire Boulevard. Los Angeles: 
" 'Take down the smelling salts and dish out the pass out checks. I'm even in the mood for a good faint myself. AVhen I break down and write a personal letter it's an occasion for flying the flag on the roof. If you don't be­lieve me, ask my good friend Vincc Carney, But. Joe. I just couldn't let the kind wishes expressed in your Christmas letter go un­answered.' 
" 'Game time is reunion time for the "West Coast fellows and over the Southern Cal week­end I had many a good gabfest and laugh with Notre Dame men I haven't seen in years. Bob Barrett trekked in from the big timber country of "Washington; Jerry Bill paddled up the coast from the San Diego Bay; Bemie Abrott, Jack Murphy and Ed Frcitas were here advertising the San Francisco World Fair of 1939. I missed Bob McDonald, Illie Byrne and Bill Vore. My brother John rolled ovep in his car coming from Arizona and traveled the rest of the way by train nursing a few bum ribs, and at that said it was worth it." 
" 'At the stag party and rally before the game our local alumni were flitting all over the place. Prexy Fred Pique played a stellar role as host and was very ably assisted by Ton Adie, Jokn Cmrhenr, CkuBe Kcmt4r and Charlie Gaaa. I see Charlie Gass quite often and he is a prominent yotmg attomer in Los Angeles. Ed AiW was on hand and. helping out. Saw our undertaker friend Eddie Cnnningham- hiding behind a big cigar. Kut­nie Vexie was breenng here and there as was Larrr "Fapa't.Hoorc, Gene Kennedy. I>e«x and Joe Daley (both family men) and, if Walt Stanton is interested, Joe fell oS the cliff just a few weeks before he did. I was supposed . to be the official reporter on that bet.' 
" 'See Rccie Bittncr once in a while and take up the collection vriih Frank 'Duke* Slater at St. Brendan's nearly every Sunday. Also hear from Ja^w m Hay ever so often. He is the proud papa of two girls. Guess Pm getting old.* 
" 'My cousins. Tarn and Mrs. Hi^cy and Mary Ann Goheen arrived for the game on the Westward Ho Special from South Bend. As yon know Tom built many of the buildings at Notre Dame and is the father of Tom, Jr« Lonis. Don and Jerry, alt Notre Dame men. We spent considerable time together and tried to "Shake down the Thunder** but old xnan sol insisted on turning on the heat and I think that played a large part in the game score.* 
" 'As for myself, after, five years in the in­vestment business and two years as manager of a Los Angeles office buildinsr I find myself following my father's old game—Keal Estate, Insurance and Mortgage Loans, j^ven't got­ten over the habit of going to school and taking examinations. In fact, I just took a Civil Service Appraiser's examination last week.* 
" *Vinee Carney reiwrted me as still being quite the single man. You can tell Vince that I'm still single but he can drop the "quite" as I've been "kicked in the face." A swell little girl from Oakland. She was down for the game and New Year's.' 
"I'm sore at my old roommate, Joe Scpetti* 
as I expected the first to be Joseph Patrick 
"Slim" but he could at least have made it 
Josephine Patricia. Extend to him my con­
gratulations.* 
" 'Often think of Johnny Law, Cozy Dolan, Mmrty Ryan, Joe Renlri, Bin Dore, Joe Scbraeder, Carl Johnson, John Brown and the rest of the gang and am glad to see their names in the ALUMNUS every so often. Got the dope on Joe Nettkton from Bob Barrett and saw Bob Daffy when he was here a while back.' 
" 'I've outdone myself. Joe, and have set bad example for my other friends.—They'll be expecting too much. Every good wish for the Ne^v Year.' 
"You can be sure that we all appreciate your splendid letter, Joe! 
"Cutting a few hours, minutes and seconds off ,of all the established records for a coast to coast flight, we proudly present Joe Bamett of 530 Canton Street. Ogdensburg, New York. After freezing onto the sheepskin back in '29, Joe entered and completed the Guaranty Trust Company Bond School in New York City and later sold bonds for a time in that vicinity. As some of the more affluent members of the class may recall, a few things happened to the market back in those days and that, allied with a recession in Joe's health, caused him to turn his hack on the big tnty to head for Potsdam in northern New York. Iliere Joe entered the insurance business with his Dad and continued with him for five years until the summer of 1936 when he opened a general in* surance office of his own in Ogdensburg. Ton may recall that that is Notre Dame's Jae 

The Notre De^mc Alumnus March-April. 1939 
Brandy's home tovm. Brandy is the ovmcT and editor of the local newspaper and has been quite helpful to Joe Bamett. Sometime in 1937 Bamett married a North Country girl and visited Notre Dame on his honeymoon (the trip being made via Niagara Falls). "WTiile at Notre Dame Joe marveled at the extensive improvements that had been made on the campus, met the 'pope' and received his bless­ing, and resolved to try to make the big ten-year reunion this June. I think that fortune has Joe's address and ^ve 'n*ill he hearing a lot of fine things about him as the years roll by. 
"Since the traveling that can be done in a Class Notes column appeals to the Scotch in me (and I don't mean Hague and Hague) it seems appropriate fo report on George F. Oogan next. George is doing quite u-ell for himself in the law business at CIS Farnam Building, Omaha, Nebraska. He has com­canded favorable attention hy taking part in every political campaign since 1929 and has even taken the chance of being a candidate. Back in 1932 he married one of Nebraska's beautiful girls and now reads the funny papers to a splendid five-year-old. George says that the campus doesn't ^ m the same since they have changed the line-up over in old (^rby Hall since the days when George and your sec gave Father Dominic CMallcy a few things to think about. Cogan reports that ftlardiic Sdiwartz and Tommy Gorman arc now coaching at Crelghton and really went going to town last fall. 
"And now for the second letter to which reference was made in the opening paragraph. On the fine engraved, embossed letter head of the Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Assistant Attorney (>eneral Pete Clinc for­wards the following to the old red tape worm: 
" "Thanks for the holidny greeting. In turn, may I extend to you "A Happy New Year" from one Attorney General's office to another.' 
" 'During my tenure here, I have not had the pleasure of being associated with any other *29ers. On the contrary, I have had to bear the company of t\vo '2Sers, Joe Kinncary and John Fontana. However, at present it appears that my forbearance will not be neces­sary much longer for we are all engaged in carving our initials on the walls in prepara­tion of a parting of the ways. Not that we have resigned or even been dismissed; we are simply expiring.* 
" 'Although I have been living in Columbus. I often get home to Akron where Claude Hom­ing- and Paul Bcrtsch are liwng the domestic life. Claude is combining his talents in archi­tecture with the selling of lumber for the Homing Lumber Company; "Pablo" Bertsrii is a super-salesman (but not streamlined) for the Kohner Paper Company. After business hours, I understand that he is a very stem parent, ("Now children quit hacking the piano until you have chopped down that lamp you started on.") 
" 'Also In Akron is Joe Kraker who man­ages the popular "Old Heidelberg." I had din­ner with Joe in Columbus when he was here attending the Republican Convention—just a big political light from Summit County.' 
'* 'Now back io Columbus where we have Chris WUhelmy whose success as a transporta­tion magnate is approached'only by the bril­liance of his social life. Columbus society re­cently pictured Chris being suave at the key­board of a grand piano (No, girls keep back; he is a family man). During the summer he can generally be found at the Bath Club in­structing his handsome young son in the 
splashy ari:.' 
" ''While on the road during the late lament­ed campaign, I 'was in 'HfTin where Fred Wagner can be found in his office oppodte the Court House. There he provides handsome­ly for folks who need insurance. I have first­hand information from a victim that Bob HdRhcs is the Culbcrtson of Cincinnati. Of course, they had another name for it when proficient card players were operating on the river. 
" 'From Vincennes came the customaiy ele­gant Christmas greeting from Paul Brokhage. I understand that this master merchandiser is selling people things they don't want and then inveigling the customers to pay for what they have purchased.* 
" 'I have been in contact with a large num­ber of alumni, but these seem to be the only *29ers with whom I have come in contact re­cently.' 
"Thanks a lot. Pete I" 
193 0 Scerctarr: Robert Hellmnf, Ham­boldt BIdg.. St. Louis, BGuoari. 
John Bcrgan, secretary of '31, generously contributed the following '30 news: 
"Edward 'Slim' Halloran is practicing law in TJrbana. Illinois. 
"Bill Grant, recently father of a son. Is now with the Federal Deposit Insurance Company and works out of Springfield. 
"Bud Weber, of the Olney Webers, is busi­ness manager of the Weber Sanitarium in Olney, Illinois. 
•*Jack Chcvigny was a guest of Austin Boyle at the New Orleans Sugar Bowl game held on New Year's. 
'*Jack McCarthy is a field man for a fire insurance company and is living in Joltet, Illinois. 
"Francis Yenck is selling land in Sullivan, Indiana, in the oil region and has temporarily f^ven up baseball." 
Professor Walt Langford is represented in two recent issues of "The Catholic Digest." The February number carried his "New Hope for Slum Dwellers." which first appeared in the January "Sign," and the December num­ber used his article on Father Pro, Mexican martyr, whicli first appeared in the November issue of "The Missionary." 
193 1 Secrctmrr: John Bcr(anp 838 E. Col­
-
 fax Arc , Sootfa Bend. Ind. 

G.
 o. John Bcrgan is with you again, b. and 


b.
 than ever: 


"Bob Kendall is now located in Globe, Ari­

zona, with his father in the general insurance business. Possibly one of the most diversified occupations is that of Ed Yodi of Belleville, Illinois. He is in the city governing body, an official in a coal mine and manager of a stove foundry. Among the coaches seen- at the national coaches convention held last month in Chicago were, Larry Mnllins up from .Loyola of New Orleans, Tom Conley of 
John Carroll, Cleveland, Mmrchie Schwartz of' 
Creighton, Frank Leahy and Ed Koaky of 
Fordham. Tommy Yarr and Bert Bfetiver of 
Chicago were also around the Sherman hotel 
to help entertain them in Chicago. Bob Cnn­
ningfaam is employed in a new field at present 
as he is now representing the Globe Unen 
Co., of the \Vind>- City. About the only news 
gathered from the coaches is that 'Moon* Mul­lins' Loyola team will play Marchie Schwartz's Creighton eleven next fall in Omaha. 
"Miss Dora Dunn ,was married to Gordon I^wler on January 28 in Peoria. Tom Mona* han of Areola was best man. They will make their home in Springfield where Gordon is eastern Illinois representative for the Cities Service Oil Company. Jerry Bali, late of Ply­mouth. Indiana, is living in Robinson. Illinois, and is with the Ohio Oil Company in its chemical division. Ray Glondenuins is assist­ing his father in the management of Gloude­mans' department store in Appleton, Wiscon­sin. And that vagrant engineer, Charlie Poir­en , has moved again. He may now be reached at Raleigh, North Carolina. Rilph Dalton is pushing the sales of Pepsi-Cola in Dan\*ille, Illinois, while Pat Hangan makes Joliet, Illi­nois, his home now instead of Springfield. Illinois, as was previously reported. He is with the Western Adjustment Bureau, how­ever. Mike Tedcrs is in Eendallville, Indiana, his old home, and would enjoy hearing from the old gang in Badin. 
"It was the writer's pleasure to visit cen­tral Illinois last month and personally account for some news. Wbile in Areola I saw Tom and Mary Slonahan who proved to be wonder­ful hosts. Tom is following in the steps of his illustrious father in the broomcom business and might say that he is making a great suc­cess thus far. Through him a quick meeting of the class was called in Paul Grant's home in Mattoon. Paul thrust his Eay^voodie to one side and let his two children sleep unnoticed and began to recant tales of the boj-s in Walsh. Paul is traveling in the engineering department of the Central Illinois Public Ser­vice. Also at the gathering was Edward 'Spike' Sqllivan, the Coffey^-ille, Kansas, flash who is with the Carter Oil Co. in Mattoon. He w-as recently married in Okmulgee, Okla­homa, to Teresa Maloney culminating a Notre Dame - St, Mary - of - the - Woods romance. In Springfield I had a great visit with genial Mike Kinney who holds an important position in the Secretary of State's office. Mike and his wife recently celebrated their first wed­ding anniversary and live at 426 Edwards St. Mike intends to visit New York this year and see some of the old gang. Also saw Oliver Field who is on the legal staff of the Illinois Department of Insurance. He is quite the busy person these days. In addition to his duties with the Insurance Department he spends about three hours a day teaching his young daughter, Mary Kate, to talk, is lecturer of the Springfield council. Knights of Colum­bus and is one of the city's bowling greats. 
"Jim Conboy is now clerk of the Department of Public Safety under the new administration in South Bend. Tom Cannon has returned to private practice of law in Muncie. after having served as deputy prosecutor of Delaware County for the past two years. 
"Ken Fishleigh has been transferred to the St. Paul office of the Northwestern Insurance Company. Ken is still a bachelor. Bob Duffy of the firm of Wise. Duffy and Wise of Joliet, Illinois, is one of the ranking young attorneys in the Joliet legal profession. Larry Halter is selling cars in Akron, Ohio, and is sales manager of one of the leading dealers in the rubber city. Jim Kearney was one of the University's representatives at the Law Schools convention held in Chicago during the holidays. 
"More than 20 members of the class in the vicinity of Chicago were present at the class party held at the borne of NeU Harley in River Forest on January 16. Jim Doyle, Jack Lyndi, Ben Cakes, Cil Seaman, Bill Chawgo, Vince Ponic, Eddie Ryan, Don O'TooIe, Red 
March-April. 1939 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
O'Connell and Bob Pendersast were a few of those noted in attendance. 
"Best wishes of the class are accorded to Frank Leahy on his new position as head coach of football at Boston CoUege, Frank and his family will move to Boston and assume his new duties there in March. Another new resident of Boston is Ben Oakes who migrated there from Chicago after a holiday in New Orleans. Ben is in the roofing business and is living at the University club with Jack Saunders and Art McManmon. 
"A letter from Charlie "Red" Wells dis­closed that the former Badin flash is now manager of the Midwest Dairy Products Co., in Nashville, Tennessee. Red is getting along fine and started his six-year-old son in school this past year. He is anxious to hear from some of his old pals. Duncan, Seymour, Cun­ninKham and others, and his residence is 103 19th Ave., South Nashville. Dick O'DonncU has left Harrisburg and is now working in his native Pittsburgh. Genial Bill Magarral is still in the restaurant business in East Pitts­burgh. 
"A new candidate for Nick's 1958 track team is Brian Matthew Tuohy, son of Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Tuohy of Bayside, Long Island. Master Tuohy was bom on January 25 and is making as much noise as his dad formerly did on the campus. 
"Louis Heitffcr is traveling in the southern states in the interests of the E. H. Sheldon Co., manufacturers of laboratory efjuipment. Larry Baldingcr is head of the Department of Pharmacy at the University while Ed Coomes is still teaching (physics) in the College of Science. After some special study at M.I.T., Louie Berardi is working in Los Angeles and visits the Tom Ashes occasionally. Emi! Tclfd is enjoying the Louisiana sunshine these days and was recently appointed chairman of the credentials committee of the national conven­tion of publicity directors to be held in New Orleans. Emil is on the faculty of Loyola of the South University. 
"Among those seen at the Notre Dame-

N.Y.U. basketball game in Madison Square Garden on February 11 were: Ed Kosky, Stretch Mahan, Johnny Bums, Ed Cunning­ham, Johnny Kuhn, Willie Kcclcr, Frank Leahy, Jack Van Dike, Tim Benitz, Art Bcr­sren and John Lcsieki." 
As practically all readers of the newspapers know by now, Frank Carideo will next year be backfield coach at the University of Iowa under the newly appointed head coach, Eddie Anderson. Frank has been backfield coach at Mississippi State College for the past three years. 
Recent word is that Dave Nash is secretary of the Intercollegiate Club of the West, 4 West 43rd Street, New York City. 
Nick Bohling was recently unanimously re­elected president of the Seventh Ward Repub­lican Club in Chicago. 
193 2 Secretary: Herbert Glorvlo. 9QDS 188A . Street, HoIUs, L. L, New York. 
Herb Giorgio writes: 

"Just a few notes concerning some of the boys I've heard from recently. 
"In behalf of the c^ass I wish to extend its sympathy and condolences to Leo V. Mc-Lanjdilin upon the death of his father. We all know that Leo has the ability to follow in the steps of his distinguished father. 
"Vince G'Neil has announced his engage­ment. Bill Carr was seen at the N.D.-N.Y.C. basketball game. Charley Riley of Goshen is with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. Herb Wchrlen was at the dance after the N.Y.C.­
N.D. game. George Boden is doing well in a new job. 
"Don Killian is with duPont in Wilming­ton, Delaware. Jack Hamilton is with Frigid­aire in Dayton, Ohio. He is married — the father of a girl. Gene Connelly has returned from his honeymoon — is living in Elmhurst near Flo McCarthy." 
Bill Otto is now at San Benito, Texas, work* ing for the International Boundary Commis­sion, a federal organization. 
Art Himbcrt, formerly of Rock Island, Illi­nois, has purchased 40 per cent interest in the New Smyrna, Florida, "Daily News," with an option on the remaining 60 per cent. Art has been editor of the "Daily News" since 1936. 
Neil Hurley is now a vice-president of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company in Chi­cago. He had been secretary of the company for four years. 
193 3 Seo^^nr: Donald Wise, 110 Pleatant Street. JoUtt, lOInois. 

Don Wise sends in the following superb contribution from Jack Brcen and Eddie Mori­arity: 
"The ability of *Rabbi* Lynch to tear him­self away from Mayor Hague long enough to gather together his excellent contribution to the '33 column of the last ALUMNUS has given us the necessary shot in the arm to help fill that customary void. 
"Just received word of the engagement of George Bcaudin, he who catches the worms on golf balls, to Miss Margaret Hauber of ChU cage. . . . Margaret may be remembered by such characters as Paul Boehm, Bemie Lena« han, Ted Halpin, Charlie Fiss and Clcve Carey as the lovely 'Mrs. Moriarity." who with the wedding party, was treated so graciously bj­these hospitable ones in South Bend's Maroon club after the Minnesota game. .. . Of course, the deal with Big Beau was practically sealed at that time, hut it was real ^or t watching the boys struggle to see who was going to buy the next congratulatory round. , . . 
"On a recent trip to Chicago we ran into Jack Duffy at Ernesto's, who told of his cou­sin. Jack O'Shaughnessy, hitting a new high in name exploitation. . . . Now he's even dat­ing a girl by the name of O'Shaughnessy. . . . Joe McCabe is still going great guns as pic­ture editor of the Chicago 'Times' . . . and reported much enamored too. . . . Bill St. Clair, still wearing a Homburg and dapper. was an excellent host. . . . Joe (Comes the Revolution) Joyce, a frequent Detroit visitor . . . and not on business. . . . Charlie Conley (Regards to the Russian, Charlie) is handling 13 states full of claims for D. F. Broderick, Inc. . . . Joe Kimclch and Moe Lee, hale and hearty barristers, with Moc gradually getting a corner on the Republican patronage. . . . 
"A nice Christmas card from Father Frank Harrison, now an assistant at St. Mary's, Binghamton, N. Y. . . . Certainly a delight to see so many at the reunion last June. .. . Wish we'd hear more about everybody. . . . And Dick Meade, the Sage of Seattle, the far­thest pilgrim. . . . How about that case of apples, Dick? . . . Missed Chicago's leading Ford dealer, Johnnie L}'ndi, at the game this fall . . . and so many others. . . . Lcnahan, Carey at their best . . . and Norm Dnke . . , always there. 
"We'll offer two to one that . . . Jade Fin­ncran will raise these odds .. . that BiH Webster still reads the Ellensburg 'Bugle* and has not gone Hollywood . . . and that Lcn Dann would drop a case to watch him .. . that Thomas Aquinas GalUxan is still a No. 1 classicist . . . that Joe Borda is crowding Cleve Carey for the lost hair championship .. . that Charlie (Moose) Farris still croons a la Bing C. while he dresses . . . and that Ruby loves it . . . that Wes Farrinclon and DaTe McCaffrey can find Al Ripley's bar blindfolded . . . that Harry Wonscfa still takes his 3 p.m. slest . . . that Bill Hawks, the Hidden Voice of Walsh hall, has some new wrinkle in radio . . . that Marsh McATcny is still very handy with the knife and fork . . . that Eddie Stephan, could, if pressed, find a 'game* in Felix Frankfurter's sanctum sanctorum .. . that Eddie Agnew Is still in good condition . . . that J. D. I^malcy has a finger in the greatest number of successful businesses .. . that (Rev.) Chick Sheedy vnll be prefect of discipline some day . . . that Mark Flanagan still has ideas as to who will cop the fourth at Hialeah tomorrow . . . that Leo Cnmmings is still in love . . . with baseball .. . that Jen y Finneran. lion of the Hearst chain, is the cause of heart murmurs at no less than six finishing schools , . . not to mention those fractured along the bright stem . . . that Tom McLanghlin has a candidate . . . that Mark Donovan and Rollle Bnndi w^ill carve deep niches as medicos. . . . 

"In the Detroit area the engagement of Bob Powell was recent news and finding an apart­ment should be easy. . . . That's his business. . . . Ted Fcldman Is happily ensconced in a little nest on Detroit's east aide. . . . *Tis ru­mored the little woman has been a great in­fluence in keeping him home nights. . . . Their hospitality has become far flung and we know their home has a 'Welcome* sign for any of the boys who happen to hit Detroit- . . . Granger Weil married his dream girl, has his dream nest, is justly proud of three lovely children, and is Port Huron's coming ioumal­ist, plus being the youngest Kiwanis president in the country. . . . Lefty Donville is also re­ported • happily married and living in Port Huron. . . . Ernie Garfaro was a swell host Christmas night , , , being home for the holi­daj'S from Memphis, where he's been on a construction job for the past year. .. . He thinks southern cooking is over-rated and that selling bricks for the Rockne Memorial is no cinch. . . . Joe ShcckctaU is one of our resi­dents during the off season and our latest viat with him was the most pleasant one of con­gratulating him on his new appointment as head man at Holy Cross. , . . 
"We know this doesn't even scratch the '33 surface—and so. how about a few more of you guys knocking your heads together and making our column in the ALUMNUS that much more enjoyable.'* 
-iQVd SccRtary: Jmacs MOMOW, 2320 Nartk **'• " LawMdaia Aw.. CUcac*. tOlMia 
FIVE-YEAR REUNION June 2, 3 and 4 

Bob Cahin, Athletic OfHce. Notre Dame, local chairman of the five-Year Reonion. slashes through -with this brilliant snmmaxy of results so far: 
"Well, dear classmates, it looks as though we mls^t have a real reunion after alL Your response to the card we sent out -was fair, hut still not good. I give yon the replies here­with: 
"So far, only five have returned cards to say thej* can't make it, and we're hoping even they may change their plans by June. They are: Bob Hamilton of Racine, Wisconsin; Ben PoHard, of Washington, D. C; John Mc­Laughlin, of Cumberland, Rhode Island; Frank BIcGahrcn, BrookI>-n; and Jack lenders, Springfiald, Missouri. 
"The query even brought a few letters, which I give you now: 
"Mike Fox writes from Indianapolis: 'I was vers* glad to hear from someone who knew whether or not we were to have a five-j'ear meeting this j-car. .. . I can assure you I will be there and as far as I know all the other Indianapolis boys. There are not so many of us but I think you can count on 100 per cent.' 
" *A1 Smith is in the same building here and I see him every day. He is with the Hdelity Trust Co, ID the trust department and doing a swell job. We are figuring on coming up together. He is still single but things look like they might be happening soon.' 
" *John Carr says he will be there. John is working for the State in an accounting posi­tion and is on the road quite a bit.' 
" 'Tom Humphrcj- 3Iceker is still with the American Loan Co. but was recently pro­moted to the position of audtitor in the main ofTice. He is expecting a blessed event in about three weeks, so is quite busy.' 
" *I guess you remember Joe Spalding. (Sure. Joe used to sell ads for the good old "Juggler.") He left N.D. at the end of '33 to enter Indiana U. Med School. He is serving his second year of intemeship at St. Vincent's Hospital and coming along fine. Joe will be with us for the reunion if only for one day.' 
" *I haven't seen Eddie Hcrold for some time, so do not know just what he is doing.' 
" 'I am still in the insurance business and keeping the wolf from the door. It is a little hard at times but I seem to manage some­how. Business has really been pretty good this winter but is falling off a little now.* 
" 'I am looking forward to seeing all the boys in June and having a big time. It seems hard to think it has been five years since we finished, but when I look at my brother in his third year up there I really feel old. I saw Charley Schwartzcl the other night and he said he would be there. If there is anj-thing I can do, let me know.' 
"And right on the heels of Mike's letter came one from AI Smith, our old dance pro­moter, from the same town as Mike: 
" 'I was very pleased to receive your letter the other day concerning our Five-Year Re­union w*hich takes place in June. I had heard little talk about such a reunion, and was.be­ginning to wonder if we were really going to have one.* 
" 'A number of the boys here from the class of '34 have been planning to make it together. Last year I was out in Denver and talked with Gene Bltsh and he is to round up all the boys from that vicinitj-. I would like to ^v e Mos­cow a little i>ep talk and see if he can discover what happened to a few of the other boys from our class—^Tom Dwycr, Tom Dalton, Van Lahr and a good many others.' 
" *I had a letter from John Ffrcnch (very good AI, you did remember that tixtra "F") who seems to be enjoying life as one of Uncle Sam's fi>-ing navy men. Saw Bed Hagan and Starla Canalc at the Minnesota game. Red is mighti- proud of his young son.' 
"And John 'Happy' Clandcr comes through with: 
*" 'The enclosed card informs you that I wiH be on hand In June with the rest of the fel­lows. We are sort of busy at this point wait­ing for the stork to arrive (\\-ritten February 7). The Doc says any time after the 14th of Februarj- we will be papa and mamma. . . .* 
*• 'Did you know Bud (Charles G. for Grover) McNichoIs is working for Jack Pnrdy.. Has a pretty nice job except he's on the road all the time. He announced his engagement to Florence Egan of CHiicago and St. Mary-of­the-Woods at Christmas time and will marry in the near future. (Nice going, Charmanel. It's about time). Am looking forward to June. It will be swell to see all the boys again.* 
"And now for those fellows who took the trouble to fill out and return the cards, and who are coming back: This is as of February 
27: John 'Brute' Bcglcy, Cleveland; Gene Blish, Denx*er; John Bnist. Milwaukee; Ed Butler, Wilmington. Del.; Bob Clark, Mul­berry, Ind.; John Clauder, Alilwaukee; Rudy Cmkovic, the old down beat, Pittsburgh; Rudy would like to see George Bruno; £d Cttnnin^'­ham. Areola, III., and if Cunningham comes, can Kencfake be far behind?; Walt Dopray, Port Huron, Mich.; Ralph Else, Bu^alo, N. Y., who would like to see Clint Winters; Gcrrj* Farrell, Rochester, N. Y.; Ed 'Engineer* Fitz­mauricc. Union City, Ind.; {how about Ed 'Drummer Boy' Fitzmaurice, of Milwaukee?) Hugh Fitzgerald, Brooklyn; Jim Fitzpatrick, Los Angeles; Howy Flannerj*. Babylon, N. Y.; Mike Fox, Indianapolis; Vic Fransioli, Mem­phis, who says he'd like to see the engineers. Boy, how those slide rules still stick together! 
"Jim Gartland, Canandaigua, N. Y., who would like to see 'all the guys who lived in Badin'; Jack Gni-man. Oak Park, 111.; Bob Hanley, Chicago, who would like to see me 'fly a kite from the Golden Dome.* Smart guy, eh Hanley? Are you going to park that Buick phaeton behind Lyons again?; Joe Hanratty, Parma, Ohio; Charlcj* Heckelmann, Hemp­stead, N. Y., who would like to see Julian Quinn. Ed Dulin, Clint Winter; Bemie Hen­ncssy, Rochester, N. Y., who'd like to see Bill Green, Wells Robison, Frank Brady; Frank Honcrkamp, he of the rosy cheeks and Knights of Columbus, Kew York City; Harry Hom­brecht. Fort Wayne, Tnd.: Bill Hnisking, Hun­tington, N. Y.; Les Jandoli. who'd like to see Ed Dulin; Bob Kelley, South Bend, who'd like to see Norb Raschcr, Paal Kane, Cy Ridcard; Bill Kcnne3*. the pill roller from Charleston, 
W. Va-; Tarz Kiple, Chicago: Jim Leonard, now coaching at St, Francis College, Loretto, Pa.; Russ Leonard, the distiller from Louis­ville. 
"Bill Lewis, Chicago; Ed Mansfield. Denver, Colo., who'd like to see Gcon;e Belting, as would we all, but George's condition will hardly permit; John Martin. Oklahoma City, who'd like to see Ray Waters. Andy Autfa. and Jack Dorsey; Bill McCormick, Syracuse, N. Y.; 
J. A. McShanCf Chicago; AI Monacelll, Wash­ington, D. C , says '1*11 be in Kansas City try­ing some cases for Uncle Ssm for about six weeks ending June 1st- If I don't have to continue on to the west coast, I'll be there with bells on!'; Charley Monnot, Oklahoma City, who Wants to 'see everybody and every­thing* ; Ken Montie, Wyandotte, Mich.; Wil­liam J. 'Dad' Motsett, Peoria's pride and joy, who tries to get a drag with the chairman by saying he'd like to see me; Tom Cakes, Clin­ton, Iowa, who says he'd like to see 'you. dear.* Cut that stuff, Oakes!; Ed O'Brien, Pitts­burgh ; Bill O'Brien, Bridgeport, Conn.; Hugh O'Ncil, Chicago; John Pavliek, Pittsburgh; Jnlian Qninn (there you are Hedielmann, how's that for ser\-ice?) Tyler, Texas; Charley Qnirk. South Orange, N. J. 
"Well Robison. Davenport, Iowa, who wants to see everybody, especially C.E.'s and base­ball men; Bill Rockenstcin, Butler, Pa.; Harvey Rockwell, Newark, N. J. ; Charley Sdiwartzel, who'd like to see the men from Walsh; Ed Sherman, Helena, Mont, who says he'll be here the 2nd. 3rd and 4th, as well as the 5th, 6th and 7th (hope this Commence­ment is less eventful than our first. Ed); Bob Slack, Medina, N. Y.; Bill Veeneman, Louisville, Ky. Thanks for letting Leonard have the day off. Bill; an unsigned card w*as returned postmarked Waterloo, Wis., EG I as­sume it's from John Voelker. Glad to hear you're coming. John, but be sure to hang a tag with your name and address on you; Howie Waldron, Trenton, N. J., who wants to see Rube Grundeman. and will drive out with "Wild Bill Huisking; and Frank Widger, alpha­betically last, but characteristically first, for he was a fellow-bluffer in the Foreign Com­merce school, from Evanston. 
"Those, gentlemen, arc the hardy souls who will be here for certain. Now how about some of you other blokes? How about it. Bill Ayres. Vince Reishman, Bay Gilgcr, Harry Rockett, George Reese, Fran Toomcy, Justin Tompkins. Mike Wiedl, Dick and Mike Cahill, Bill Collins. Red Forrest, Jack Egan, Jim Pa­gan, Joe Glcnnon. John Hess, George Menard, Paul LaFramboisc, Erv Kiep, Frank Mahar, Dick Mullen, Charley Woods, Ed Moran, the Murphys, Edward and Hugh, Mush Rigantc. Chick Marra, Tom Dalton, Bob Stone, Minnie Sporl, Ray Troy, Johnny Vcnablcs, Joe Con­don. Jimmic Dunnigan, Augie Von Boccklin, Chuck Cashman, Gcrrj* Andres. Harr>- Des­noyers, Joe Hayes, Chuck Finkcl, Bob Hughes, Harry Nortman, Jack Land, Charlie Schwartz, Frank Shapiro, the Yribcrrjs, way down in Peru. George Blaha. Jack Dorsey, Ned Quinn, Paul McManus. Frank Linton. Walt Kennedy, Jim Kcams, Charley Jahr. Bob Butler. John Henry. Gene Hcaly. Buck Hanley. E. Graham. Ed Farlc3*, Dan Dugan. Tim Donovan, Red Crawford, Jack Connolly, Clyde Craine, the Cacciatore boys,—oh, all of you guys? Let's hear from you. either way, but make it if you can. Maybe you recognize among the list of those returning someone near you, and perhaps you can arrange to come with him if you have no transportation. Let's keep beating the drum, for the more that return, the better the reunion. I know this letter sounds a bit chamber-of-Commerceish, but when I start looking through the 'Dome' I can't help but think what a swell party it would be if every­one could come back 
"Friday night will be our attempt to get everyone together at the same time, so if you want to see everybody, be here for' Friday night, June 2. 
"Place and time will be announced later, but in the meantime, drop me a line if you can and tell me your plans. Or use the card we sent out. Incidentally, if you send me any dope we can keep this Class Notes column blooming for a while—^you know, where you are, what you're doing, married or single, any children, etc For some time those Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen of *35, '36 and *37 have been making us look bad. 
"Yours for a bigger and better Five-Year Soiree.** 
This is a great pep talk from the class sec., one James Moscow; 
"By this time you have read the instructive 

letter of Chairman Bob Cahill, concerning the activities slated for our class over the reunion week-end—June 2, 3, and 4. Since Bob co%'­ered just about everything, there is little I can .add in regard to the tentative program. 
"We would like to explain the importance of the scheduled gathering for Friday night, June 2. As most of you know, the general alumni activities do not commence until Sat­urday, June 3. It has been the custom—and a fine one—to provide some source of special entertainment for the 'privileged* reunion groups. Consequently, on Friday night, June 2, at 8 P.M. the class of '34 will have an exclusive party in South Bend—the definite place yet to be decided—for *34ers only. This will give us boys a head start in renewing those discussions and arguments which found their beginnings five years ago in ^Valsh and Sorin Halls. Here will be a highlight, one of the activities that is provided for our class nlone! 
"But if for some reason, any of you cannot reach South Bond before Saturday, don't be­come discouraged because you will still have the full week-end activities, and two days in whicli to meet old friends. 
"On Saturday, in addition to the softball game with the 'old men* of *2J), which, Cahill admits, has been practically conceded to us, there will be an all-day alumni golf tournament in progress. We w-ill arrange to work in a special *34 tournament \vithin the general contest. 
"Saturday evening we will he the guests of the University at the alumni banquet. 
"As Bob stated in his letter to you, this is your reunion, and we would welcome any sug­gestions or criticisms to improve the abovc­mentioned tentative arrangements, or perhaps to enlarge the program. 
"Of course, after all, the main objective and most important entertainment afforded by any reunion such as this is the opportunity to meet old friends. We all know the thrill in shaking hands with an old pal whom we haven't heard from, in five years. If you have never experienced such a thrill, this June will provide the opportunity. 
"I might add that lodging is provided gratis by the University in the various residence halls. 
"We urge you to make use of the card enclosed in Cahill's letter. Fill it out and mall it In as soon as you can reasonably decide upon your intentions. Be sure to take advan­tage of the last space on the card and name one or two fellows whom you would like to see at Notre Dame that week-end. 
"For example. Bud Kramer has Sent me a card from Des Moines promising to he on hand at the reunion. He adds—^"I want to see all of the fellows again, principally Curran, Raincy and StccI in order to alibi my w*riter*5 cramp. Garland of Kewanee will have some explaining to do in my direction.' Well, we*Il see. Bud. 
"Bcmic Hcnncssy of Rochester reports that he expects to be on hand. See what you can do with Jerry FarrcU, Jim Glcason, and others of that vicinity, Bemie. 
"Others on their way are Bill Veeneman, Charley Schwartzcl. and Buss Leonard from Louisville. Incidentally, Russ recently became the daddy of young John Russell, which calls for official ALUMNUS congratulations. 
"Harry Rockctt drops a line to the effect that he is practicing law in Boston from a new address, namely Suite 310—-11 Beacon St. 
How about looking for some clients out this 
way in June, Harry? 
"That*s about all for now—^Let*s hear from you!" 
The following letter from George Belting* as printed in the "Reli^ous Bulletin," tells its own tragic, yet heroic, story: 
"After the examination was over they summed up their consultation and agreed that I have about six months to live. Well, Father, after I got over the first scare, I started to laugh. Of course, none of those docs were Notre Dame men and they wouldn't understand. But had they known that at that very moment a Novena was in progress on the campus and that I vms to share in all the prayers and Holy Communions, they cer­tainly ivould have changed their diagnosis. They simply don't know what it means to have 2500 or more sons of Xotre Dame bom­barding the gates of heaven. "Why. Notre Dame herself can't let her own boys down, can she? 
"But even if the medics are right and my time is about up. I still have the laugh on them. You know. Father, I'm just about cow­ard enough to want to give up this life of pain and suffering and not man enough to cry out with Saint Francis Xavier, "More to suffer. My God. ah. morel" « « • What the docs would surely fall to realize is that in any case. I win. for the prayers and Communions and Masses the boys at NJ). are offering up for me arc mine. They'll bo stored up and waiting for me when I die and will they ever shorten my stay in Purgatory? • « « So, I've got 'em coming and going. Thank the gang , for me. Father. With their backing I can't lose. 
"Incidentally I Hail Mary'd Greg Rice all around the twenty-two laps of the Madison Siiuare Garden oval the other night as I lis­tened to the broadcast of the Millrose Games. • • * Give my best regards and assurance of prayers to all the fellows." 
And George so wanted to be back for the Five-Year Reunion in June! 
Larrj' Licalzi is now assistant manager of the Medinah Club in Chicago. 
The following was contained in a swell letter from Jim Curran, 656 East Sth Street, York, Nebraska: 
"Since finishing at N.D. in 1934, I finished in law at Nebraska U., married your refer­ence librarian at Notre Dame, and immediately went into the newspaper business here in York. Am serving as managing editor at the present time of a small country daily and have just about decided to forget the law business. We are the proud parents of a daughter, Mary Carole, born June 2, 1938. and the three of us are hoping to be able to make the reunion in June. 
"Bill Whelan, ex, '34, is an attorney for Nebraska's little TVA for the Trl-County Pub­lic Power and Irrigation District in Hastings. His brother, Dolan, also ex. *34, who gradu­ated in law with me from Nebraska, is work­ing with his father in the law business at Hastings. Bill Mead is in the groceo* business at Hastings, while my old roomy, Creight Uridil, Is learning to be a medico at Creighton 
U. in Omaha. 
"The last I heard of Wally Curry, also of Hastings, was that he was somewhere on the West Coast, hut I have never learned what he was doing. Notre Dame men are a little scarce in these parts, so that's about all I can report at this time. Would appreciate a little more dope on some of the 1934 men, especially one Lo«ie Claxke, of Florence, New-York." 
Ralph Else, formerly of Buffalo, New York, is now an insi>ector of naval material for the 
U. S. Navy in Auburn, New York- Not a gob, though: relax. Ralph writes: 

"Upon arriving in Auburn a few weeks ago I stopped at the Donofluics* place as Fcan, now in Cleveland, requested me to do so. Fran's brother, Dick, '31, was home for a little vacation. And,, Jim. I want to tell you that they are a mighty fine family. Unfor­tunately. I did hot know Dick while at school, but he certainly is a swell fellow. He took me nil over Auburn, showing me the town and helping me get settled. I certainly wish he were here all the time. 
"Then while getting gas at a station I met Jim Doyle of the class of '31. He is running a garage in town. Another night Charlie Geherin looked me up and it really was quite a job. Charlie took me all over town also, so you can readily see that I am getting to be quite an authority on Auburn." 
Maestro Petritz, '32, the famous fiddler who has taken up sports publicity as an avocation, sends the following quote from a former brother violinist in the Notre Dame Symphony orchestra, Mike Yriberry. Arequipa, Peru, South America: 
"I iam playing leader of the second violins' in the Arequipa symphony orchestra, which numbers between 40 and 50 pieces, and I'm other%vi5e busy with the construction of build­ings and the sale of road machinery. Carlos, my brother, is a government highway engi­neer constructing the road that will join the Pacific Ocean to the Amazon river. He is located in some construction camp in the thick of the jungle, two days northeast of Lima by train, auto, and airplane. I saw Father O'Hara here on Christmas night. I see Ralph Rogers once in a while. He's a big milkman." 
193 5 Secretary; FrmnUyn C Hocfareiter, 530 St. Peter St., New Orleans, La. 
BULLETIN: Hodi flashed last-mlnute word and regrets that a new job and a leading Little Theatre role had stopped him cold. Not an extra minute — anywhere — for class news. Watch this space next month though. 
1 Qlf i Secretary: Jakn Haraa 61 E. 95tb *^* ' St„ Apt. 2, New York City. 
This is that Moran man speaking: 

"Greetings and what have you! Mana^ng Editor Bill Dooley roused us out of our winter hibernation with a request for a little informa­tion on your comings and goings. So, even though your winter slumbers, judging by the mailbag, are apparently more profound than ever, here goes with out most recent gleanings. 
"Paul Larmer, Walsh Hall's funny man, wrote in to say that he is turning his talents to use by selling those jokes that he used to toss at the fourth floor gang. Some of his material has been used on a CBS show of 114 stations, which isn't so bad, Paul. How about that letter you mentioned? 
"Jerry I^ne, '38, your correspondent's erst­while summer school roommate, postcarded in from Tucson, Arizona, where is is spending the winter as guardian for the youngster oC an eastern family, Jeny, mindful of the snow and sleet he escaped, got our goat by ^vritinsr that he spends most of his time riding or basking in the sun outside his hadenda. 'Hey, someone close that window! It's drafty in here.* 
"Walt Matuso-ich wrote in to say that he would miss the N.Y.U.-N.D. E:anie at Madison Square Garden because of a fractured ankle. Walt claims that he got it while sMing. Mean­while, the engineering firm of Gibhs & Hill is holding a field job in western Ohio open for the big outdoors man. 
"Bob Cavanauf^ from down "Washington way, keeps us advised on the doings of the' boys in the nation's capital. Kay Brodorjck. 

•35, is worJdng for the "REA, while Fred Flynn is around town, but doing what. Bob didn't say. Also doing their bit for the Fed­eral Government are Steve Sliller and Ray Decly. Bob also passed along the information that Joe Bandurich worked as a tennis super­visor all summer up in Bridgeport, Connecti­cut. Via Joe came word that Ed Bcnkcrt is working in his father's department store in Piqua, Ohio. How about a few letters, Joe and Ed? Incidentally, your Mr. Cavanaugh wrote that he was at home to Rouseville* Pennsylvania, for Thanksgiving and bagged a deer (note to Slanaging Ed: tliat's not dear; as far as we know Bob is still single). 
"A good crowd turned out for the N.Y.U. game on February H in Madison Square Gar­den. Among those we glimpsed were Howie Cusack, who has returned to St. John's Law* School (Brooklyn), Bill Gillespie, Joe Schmidt end several others. Seen at various other times around town were Andy Hufnagel, who is now with Best & Co., nft h Ave. department store, Jim Sherry, who still keeps books for Chevro­let in the accounting department of the Tarry­town New York, plant, and Bill AValsh, who finally fiot us signed, and sealed for the Rockne Memorial Drive. 
"Also met Jim Comcau, w*ho has temporarily desorted Schcnectadj' for the Metropolis, where iob opportunities look brighter. John Des­mond was encountered in Grand Central sta­tion and informed us that he is now a travel­ling auditor for the Union 'Sews Company^ his Job taking him over part of New York and PennsyJvani-i­
"Bill Walsh produced a clipping at the last alumni meeting which related how Jim Wal­dron. *37, was held up at pistol point while leaving a New Jersey dining and dancing spot and forced to drive the pistol toter to a lonely spot where he ^vas relieved of his jewelry. Tough luck, Jim! 
"Jim Rcilly, demon salesman, is now doing his stnfl for Wilson's (athletic goods, not hams) since Spaulding's closed their retail stores. Bumped into George Milton some time back. George stated that he will desert Brook­lyn the next time there is an alumni meeting. Also have seen Dan Hanrahan, Bill Shea and BifT Flannery around. 
"Bud Goldman shook the dust of N. Y. from his feet on February 20 and packed his bag for (Thicago and a newspaper job. Bud planned to stop off at Notre Dame, en route. 
''And that about winds up 'the column for this issue. We regret that so many of you haven't broken into print since graduation. We try to cooperate—but we need your cards and letters. Not tomorrow or next week, but right now, today. Continuing our list of '36ers who have dropped into a self imposed obscur­ity, we would like to hear from: Hcniy Grubb, Ed Hammer, Hal Hauscr, Lou Hansman, Henry Hawblitzel, Jess Hawlcy, Andy Hellmuth, Mor­ris Hertel, John Heywood. Dennis Hickcy. Joe Hmurdk, Leo Hofschncidcr, John Hopkins, Elias Hoyos and Leon HufnagcL" 
Miller Mallett, the famous, is now on the staff of the Hotel Gibson in Cincinnati. 
193 7 secretory: Paul Foley, 18036 Sdioen­hocr Road, Detr(dt» AGdu 
Three days—we said THREE—before the deadline, Foley wheeled these nifty notes in from the Motor Mart: 
"Read quickly before the mortgage is fore­closed. 
"'Midst the frantic crackle of the S-O.S. messages, the snarling of ci^itors and the gleeful shouts of those fortunate few dues-payers who will get these lines, we make bold to say: 
"Jack King, out of Peoria, pens that he is in the paint department of the Peoria Tent and Awning Co. Prior to this 'Omar* was an employe of C.LT. finance company, and Hiram Walker distilleries. Yes, Mr. King is married. 
"From Peoria comes word that Paul 'Pickles' Winsoucr is working for the Standard Oil Co. We win not guess on his duties with the firm. 
"Standing on our constitutional rights (be­fore rigor mortis sets in), w^e refuse to state again that Fritz Probst is peddling beer, rather we will say that Paul Doran is in La-Grange, Indiana, and is said to be working for Burroughs (we presume that means the adding machine people, but one never knows). 

"Two of the 'Scholastic* scribes who used to stveat over a deadline arc in the fold this issue. First is from Greg Byrnes, who has taken refuge in that new addition to the cam­pus. Lawson YJiLC-A. in Chicago. Greg re­ports he has been attending Northwestern School of Commerce doing graduate work. He lists a scholarship as the reason and adver­tising as the end in view. 
"With true rcportorial teal, Byrnes brings many names into the list. 
"George Bonficld. about whom we hear with regularity, is still in Chu, with the Harris Trust Co. Frank Lcsscljoung, ex-employe of IT. S. Rubber Co., has probably clicked by now with London Guarantee and Accident, insurance company. 
"Ed Reardon is in a Chicago insurance of­fice. We have it from exclusive sources that he will soon pop back to Kansas City for a spot in the family insurance company. Rear­don is fully recovered from an emergency ap­pendectomy performed during the Yuletidc. 
"Out of the frying pan dept.: John Collins. who gave up the life of a bond salesman for the promotion of infra-red light for antiseptic and germicidal uses. 
"Chicago reporters note: Charles 'Bucky* Jordan, ex-track ace, wilt wed soon. (After Windiell's manner: This will be denied, but hold on tight, it's a scoop). 
"Red 3IacAlpin is said to live in Downer's Grove and work for a coal company. Byrnes Says Jim Hac^ is 'now "Diamond Jim" the feminine tenants' delight .. . manages a swanky North Side apartment hotel and is the picture of prosperity.* (The North Side is CHiicago's, of course). 
"AI Glondcmans, after interning at the Fair, returned to Pop's department store in Apple­ton, Wisconsin. 
"Paul Biagioni recently changed jobs for the better, but we can't say where he's worldng. He was with the Neisser-l^Ieyerhoft advertising agency but popped off to some other menage. 
"At Buffalo Law School is Joe Battaelim. who sandtvlches in the chores of a prep-school football coach. 
"Out of Duluth on a blast, John Metcalf was in Chicago recently looking for a new' job, but we are told, went back North. 
"Rumor dept.: Bill Whitman is said to be in South America. 
"Student dept.: Tom Kelley, Sure Lanza­fame and Bill Bailey are said to be at St. Louis U. Med School. Harry Baldwin, Frank Hardart and Gcoige Lane are still in Har­vard at the law. 
"From Milton J, 'Laughing Boy' Bock comes news of South Bend, some of which has al­ready been relayed. Milt has done little since the demise of the *News-11raes.' Fred Mul­cahy, the dapper Texan, is -with the S. B. 'Tribune' in a nebulous capacity. Bill Myers, who has taken a Master's degree at N. D., is flitting about the countryside but lit with Sears Roebuck in S.B. for a while. 
"Tony O'Boylc, in Scranton worrjing over the teaching budget which supplies his vita­mins, rcla>'S some patter. 
"Bill Fallon js said to be in New York w-jth 'the Met.' Knowing Fallon we doubt if this is the Met- Opera Co., more likely the Met. In­surance Co., but take your choice. 
"Importing everything in sight is Cy Strokcr, top-notch nine o'clock tenor and mas­ter of Rockj' Riley at everything but hand-ball, etc, etc 
"In line for an Academy Award for prep school coaching is our friend Frank Gallagher, who is said to be igniting the world in the vicinity of Scranton, Pennsylvania. 
"Bent on medical science. Johnny Campbell pursues hrs studies in Philly with all cu^'to­mary diligence 
"Bringing up close to the rear in Mr. O'Boyle's memoirs is John Cacklcy, who is with the West Virginia Liquor Control Board —which strikes us as a job for mighty big men. 
"Out in Jersey: At Westfield, J. Gillespie is in a corner spittin' on a new mitt ^va^tinB for baseball * season. J. Moon, is stting in a comer (of a tavern) spittin' on a freshman halfback for next year's football squad at Glen Ridge High. 

"From Bogota, Colombia, comes a note in green, from Ben I^Iiley, electrical engineer, who has engineered himself all the way from Houston, Texas, to the land of the castanct. Miley is working for Shell Petroleum Co. in the fascinating capacity of 'observer and com­putor.' He spends part of his time in the field and does laboratory work. He is not 
.committing himself on the remainder of the time Miley is particularly anxious to hear from any and ali of the '37 electrical engi­neers including Bill Pye, Harry Swoyer, Ed Shields, and others. His address is: Cia. de Petroico Shell de Colombia. Geographical Dept., Bogota, Colombia, South America. He sug­gests that all mail be of the airplane variety since the burros are slow as all get out. 
"And so—with creditors at every crevice, we creep quietly out." 
Glenn Blake, with legal offices in the Brant Building. Canton. Ohio, writes to the Registrar that his younger brother is interested In at­tending Notre Dame next year. 
1938 SccreUir: Harold A. WUIiami, 216 East Ldce ATC , Baltimore, Maiyland. 
Hal reports again for you: 

"Special orders came through from the front office this month to cut copy to bare facts because of rising production costs. 
"Let that short preface serve as an apology and explanation to the 50 classmates viho 
•wrote 27 letters and three post cards for not quoting their letters or postals at length. 
"Jack Solon writes from 1414 Spruce Street, l'hilade!phin, that he is no longer at the Wharton School of Finance but is now con­nected with "WFIL as a news commentator. Jack passes along the information that his roommate Zcrbst was down in Atlanta for the month of February working in a battery sales drive for National Carbon. Let Jack take it a \yhile. 'John Hurst is back in home-town Toledo, having left New York at Christmas. There is a reirort current that he is commut­ing between Toledo and New York, so address all mail care of the Wabash Railroad. His old roomie in New York. Tom O'Brien, is still there. Clay Murray, who graduated a year ahead of us. is busily engrossed in graduate work at Columbia. I was in New York re­cently and Tom, Clny and I got together for a high old time. Jim Burgess writes from 
N.D. that he 'is studying hard in graduate work. Vic Beck still whips at law up Mich­igan way. He is preparing for the 100 per cent finals.' 
" 'While in N. Y. I met up with a real 
N.D. man—Jack Mullen, a graduate of some 10 years or so ago, whose brother was in our class. Jack is production man for a leading radio advertising agency in N. Y. . . . He produces, among other things, "Myrt & Marge" and "Ask-It-Basket." Before the curtain goes up on the "Ask-It-Basket" program Jim Mc-Williams and Jack sit down at twin pianos and play the Notre Dame Victory Atarch— that is their good luck omen on the show' and they never fail to do it. . . . Frank McManus, an old N.D. grad, is selling insurance for a firm located in the "Widener Building. . . .' Thanks, Jack. 
"John Waters writes that his family was in an automobile accident on Thanksgiving Day which killed his grandmother and father and injured his mother. In behalf of the class, I extend the deepest sympathies. 
"Moose is now quite busy running two bak­eries, probating his grandmother's estate, ad­ministering his father's estate, and pressing law suits in connection with the accident. While at the Minnesota game Moose saw the Bobbsey twins, Tim Cniicc and Larry Dillon, Babe Kelly, who is a student at the American Institute of Baking, Harrj* Fox, Tom Elder, Bud Mackin, Tom Funk. 
"Art Geis is unemployed, though he has had several odd jobs since graduation. Ralph MacDonald is working as a clerk in a Chica­go engineering office. Jack Sexton is now em­ployed in his father's grocery business, push­ing packing cases around. Moose also adds that Paul Schaub was still unemployed and Bob Crockett was sailing through the Panama Canal Zone. 
"Bill Woemcr pens the sad news that his mother died on December 15, after a two weeks' illness. Again I extend the sympathy of the class. I'm sure the boys will.remember her in their prayers. 
"Bill adds that he still works, off and on, at the bottling plant in Louisville. He is now trying to land a place on the 'Courier-Journal.* 
"Nick Lamberto kicked through with a note written New Year's Eve from South Bend. In January he wrote that he is now working in the sports department of the 'Herald & Examiner* and enjoying it very much. Ho does the daily racing index, covers basketball games, and helps on make-up for the first edition. Someone passed along the word that 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Nick covered the Minnesota-NJ). game in the Bend and did a swell job of reporting. 
"Nick reports that Ray Meyer played basket­ball for the LaSalle Hotel Cavaliers of Chica­go during the past season, and that Bob Mc­Clain. '37, Ed Fischer, '37, and Phil Kirch, are still on the editorial staff of the *Her-Ex-' 
"Ed Bartnctt sent a whale of a letter that is just a shame to cut. He says that he has quit Columbia. During the Christmas season he worked at the Arnold Constable department store as a carrier and since then he has been putting several irons In the fire—radio script­writing, advertising, publicity, journalism, and magazine writing. Sd sa^'S a prominent play broker read one of his plays and predicted a bright future for it. 
"Let Ed tell it his own way, 'At a New Rochellc dance I met Bob Callahan who's still at N.D. Chuck Bcasley has been temporarily shifted to Trenton. New Jersey, by his ac­counting bosses, Lybrand, Ross Brothers and Montgomery. Bill Gallin got fed up working nights in a tunnel so he quit and is now work­ing for his father's contracting firm. Saw John Hart recently in the Grand Central but lost htm in the crowd. Bumped into Art Philson at a cocktail party. A few days ago I w^as in N.Y. with Joe Krupa whose nearest thing to a job Is a column in the Lyndhurst. New Jersey, paper: he gets a by-line and his picture, but no dough. See Tom Shcils fre­quently at Communioa during the week. Last Sunday I drove over to Fort Hamilton w-ith Foots Eliot and Bed Sclafani, both ex. '38, to see Lt. Joe Callahan. Foots and Red are both working for the New Rochelle Bureau of Rec­reation. Foots is looking for something better and Red is taking law at Fordham. But you ought to see Lieutenant Joe. He's taken oft about 15 pounds, despite the fact he has a flunkey to do everything for him. Everyone calls his "sir" and salutes him—and does he love it.' 
" 'Foots got a let from Tom Hcalcy (still unemployed) which told of going to a dance at the Fort; Tom says Joe was sweating the whole night, afraid Tom would do something wrong; Joe was quite embarrassed when Tom's girl started to flirt with a Colonel.' 
" 'I wanted to correct something that sound­ed funny In that letter of mine you had in the past ALUMNUS: it read that Bill Gallin had given a job to Frank Kcsickc; what I meant was that Frank had gotten, through his own efforts, one of the jobs that Bill had turned down. Bill and I were both pretty embar-. rassed when we saw the item in the ALUM­NUS.' 
"And wliile I'm correcting things I'll quote this paragraph from Tom Shcils* past letter, *tn the December issue you carried a note on the appearance of the N.D. Modernaires at the Glen Island Casino in New Rochelle. From the wordage one would infer that I had a lot to do with the success of the affair. This is not true. All I did was book the band in. This was easy. . . . All credit for the success of the affair should go to Bob Hencgan. '40, the boys in the band who worked so hard and to Hook Kenvin, Tommy Atkinson, Red Fitz­patrick, Lou Zontini. Johnny Mclntyre and Joe Kuharich who helped to make the night an unforgettable one.' Okay, Tom, and I think I have your name spelled correctly too. 
"Tom passes along word that Ed Kavanaugh is still at Dallas for Braniff ailways and he had also gotten Pete Pedcrscn a job with the same outfit. Pete was working in Los Angeles but he blew town after the Southern Cal game. Tom is now with the Charles Shrib­man Booking Agency, a nationally known out­fit, and he also has a number of his own bands in' Westchester. 
"My little old friend, Tom Hntchlnson, ^vrites from Indianapolis that he is now con­nected with the Indianapolis Public Library as their head publicity man. Tom, to set do^vn to his new job, had to drive from Goshen through that terrible blizzard you folks in the Mid-West had. He claims to be the only one in Indiana to make the drive that day. Good luck in your new job. Tom. 
"Bob Leonard, in response to a post card appeal, come through -with the following dope: He is now living in Wilmington and working for the duPont Company in the Nylon Divi­sion. Before he secured that job Bob had a lot of hard luck: he was in an accident—frac­tured an ankle and dislocated his knee—which kept him in the hospital for several weeks and at home for three months. He missed both the Army and Navy N.D. games and had to give away eight tickets for each. 
"Bob sees Jack Lnngren once in a while. Lungren says that Ed Wrape was quite sick in the early part of the summer but has re­covered sufficiently to start to make a Chase National out of the Paragould (Arkansas) Bank. Both Lungren and Wrape have made futile visits to Chicago, failing to locate John Burke. Bob says Burke is either married or dodging the bill collectors for they both had wrong addresses. 'New Year's Eve was spent with Frank Bright, Clark Reynolds and a few others at the New Jersey Club dance. .. . Next on your "must write" list should be Marty O'Connell and a word from Dick Swisher if possible. . . .* 
"Bob's address is 2100 Baynard Boulevard, Wilmington. Delaware. 
*'John Clcary writes from Taunton that he is now without employment since a change in local political administrations. He passes along the news that Art Sclna is at N.D. for law and was sick in Jerome, Arizona, during the Christmas vacation. 
*'Joe Wherle, in response to a post card request, writes that he is working for his Father's Mahoning Valley Milling Company in the quaint little town of Punxsutawney, Penn­sylvania. He sends news of variotis members of the class but since the news has already been chronicled I'll save a little space by omitting Joe's version. Apologies, Joe, and thanks for the prompt answer and the sv:e\l letter. 
"Bob Mazanec, 17127 Greenwood Avenue, Cleveland, rings the bell with a dandy letter. Al Butler, he writes, is now helping run the municipal airport after training on rug sell­ing for several months. Harry Fox has been with his dad in the publishing game since he came back from the West. Bob Hackman, con­tinues Bob, is rumored to be connected with one of Cleveland's gas stations. Bob says he sees Owen Kane. John Bloir. and Paul Nam k down at Akron. They are still with the rtb­ber company. 
"'Can't get anything about Dick Jenney; Jim McGettrick is going to Western Reserve Law School. Incidentally, ask him about the s^vell evening we had last summer. A blonde and a LaSalle coupe. Met Herb Gardener one day. He was working for some gas utility company in Cincy. Pete Shechan was work­ing for the county when last seen on the East side.' 
" 'Since June my ovra luck has been nothing less than phenomenal. Periodic novenos have been the answer as far as X can figure out. 
.. . I Vacationed for five weeks and then sot a job at the place 'where I had been during the summers at school. Then I tired of that and novenacd and ^ t a job in a department store. That was bad so I got busy on Notre Dame again and within a week I was dolns accounting work for General Motors. From there, in the space of one month and. one and one-half novenas, 1 went into public account­ing and then into a real estate office on an excellent connection. . . . Have flown to South Bend three times already this year . . . expect to EO down again soon .. . to keep busy a couple ei-enings a week I enrolled in law school . . . and to Charley Daly, I'm a duce of a lot thinner. . . .' Thanks, Bob. . . . 
•'Johnny Poore holds up the engineers with this nifty bit of reporting: Johnny went to work for the city engineer of his home town and stayed with that job until the state of­fered him a better job. The job is in con­struction engineering work and entails shift­ing about during the summer months on differ­ent highway construction jobs; during the winter he hibernates in a cozy Chicago office doing drafting work for the state. 
"He sends this information: 'Was out with Bill Mchring the week before Christmas. . . . Met Frank Prusha one night downtown with 
' his best girl on his arm. . . . Tom Jordan is helping his brother Johnny's basketball team win their games. . . . Bill Lusson is working for the A\'PA or PWA. Bill returned to N.D. . . . Kan into Jack Hughes and Frank O'Laughlin at a dance. . . . Frank is working for some materials company in Chicago. . . . Saw Bill Costcllo and Joe Mcssick at Kitty Davis; JoQ had just finished N.D. and Bill was taking law at N.D. . . . Was home last week and saw Johnny Jchle; he's working as a draftsman for the Shell Refining Co. , . . Was in Mattoon, Illinois, and saw Bob Laughlin and Frank Winningcr. Bob is an insurance s.ilesman now and tells me that he's doing Swell. Frank has just taken a job as salesman for the General Foods Co. and has his headquarters in Mattoon. . . . The last I heard of Tex LcBIanc and Jack Lcadbcttcr they were still working for the Indiana and Michigan Electric Co. in Benton Harbor. . . . Jack was taking flying lessons and was dam near ready to get his pilot's license.' Thanks, Johnny, especially for the dope of Laughlin and Winninger—they had somehow escaped tJie eyes of their classmates. Johnny's address, incidentally, is 826 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago." 
"Frank Prusha wrote in the latter part of January that he is working for his father's wholesale meat packing company in Chicago and getting a lot of experience. Frank dupli­cates a lot of the Chicago news already men­tioned but sends the information that Babe Kelly Was seen on crutches for a while and that Greg Kelly and Chuck O'Reilly are still working for the local Loan Co. Thanks, Frank, and sorrj- we couldn't i:se more of your newsy letter. 
"Joe Ttatx, in ansaver to a post card in­quiry, •writes that he is helping his brother coach a high school team. Joe says he is negotiating with a HolIy\vood studio for a job and has a pretty good chance of connecting. Jen y Kane postcards from Tucson, Arizona, that he is sjiending the winter out there with his charge. Before going back to New York in May, Jerry is going home to Tacoma for the first time in t^vo years. Don Hickcy writes on a post card that he is in Wheeling and Pittsburgh with the International Milling Co. He adds that he has been with Owen Kane and Jack O'DonnelL and Btllie O'Brien, ex. '32. 
"Bob Mullen, the River Forest one, kicked 

The Notre Dame Alumnus March-April. 1939 
7 HOTELS 
EACH OUTSTANDING 
The gracious hospitality and beautiful 
modernness of Blackhawk Hotels will 
provide your guests with unsurpassed 
Comfort in their "line of travel." Each 
hotel, oustanding in its community . . . 
the finest of restful surroundings at 
moderate rates. Suggest BLACKHAWK 
. . . your guests will appreciate it. 
BlACHilAWK B0TEM.S COMPAXY 
ISJ. Paul, Minn. ^^^"-^^ 
DAVENPOm' BUICKfUWK fMNFORO Dwcupft, fa. Dawpwt, ta­
through with a dandy letter around the mid­a toy and novelty house. . . . 3ud CuIIen is no dle of January'. Bob spent most of the letter longer a promising portrait painter. From telling about his European jaunt but man­what I hear he's already the real McCoy—do­aged to say that he is working in the adver­ing pretty well on his own. As for myself, tising department of Sears, Roebuck and since graduation I've been selling display ad­Company in Chicigo, and that his old side­vertising for the "New World," Chicago's kick, Vernon Rugcc, is managing a farm in Catholic newspaper.' Thanks, Ed, and come Indiana. again. 
"Phil Bayer writes that up until Christmas "George Smith from down in Indianapolis he was working as a salesman demonstrating after recovering from an attack of chickenpox, Club aluminum coolcware to housemaids in takes his t>'pewriter out and says that he is Erie. He is now in the office of the Bucynis-working for the Indiana National Bank. 'Mike Erie Co., makers of quality steam shovels. Crowe walked into a swell job a couple of If any of you boj-s are interested in picking weeks ago here at the Indian Refining Co. He up a quality steam shovel dirt cheap get in is staying at our house. . . . Dick Hennessey touch with Phil and he'll give you a good is doing very well at the Republic Creosoting discount. Phil says Bud Kolp is deep in real Co. . . . Hank Thcis is now working for Gen­estate -with his dad. During the summer Bud eral Motors in Indianapolis on the payroll and Bill drove out to the West Coast and up staff. . . . Bud Brown is working for an archi­into Canada for five weeks of vacation. Spud tectural firm in Lafayette. . . .' O'Brien is working for the Erie 'Times' ^\•rit­
"Mike Crowe sends a letter along in the ing obits. Charlie Morrow is still with Fitz-same envelope. He adds that Ray Fiedler is patrick Brothers, the makers of stuff in the in Indianapolis. Don Felts, *3S. and Fred soap line. 

Theis, *3G, are other N.D. men working for "Ed Brcnnan pounded out a dandy and un­
the Indian ReBning Co. - Thanks, George and expected letter. But once again because of Mike. space requirements we have to skip most of *'Chuck Swcenej* took time out from his it because it duplicates material already cov­work at the Sinclair Reflning Co. in Chicago ered. Ed mentions, though, that Len Skog-to write a six page letter. Chuck passes along lund and Bill Arnicl are convinced the world the information that Bill Cour is working for cruises don't last forever. 'Skoglund shaved the C. & E. I R.R. Ed Cronin is doing private off his mustache and Armel has doffed his tutoring. . . . Johnny Braddock is working "shorts. The former is with Haskins &. Sells, for a bank in Washington, D.C. . . . Ray the latter with the Nubian Paint & Famish Meyer is the player, coach, manager, trainer Co. . . . John Francis announced his engage­of the L^Salle Hotel Cavaliers. . . , Tom Gor­ment at Christmas to Grace Knowles, Oak man is all enthused about his o.a.o. in Oak ^ Park, and is still working for the Illinois Park. . . . John Head is altar bound. .. . Emergency Relief Commission. Engineer Didc George Johnson, down in Taylorville, Illinois, Carrigan is part of the Carnegie Illinois Steel is pumping gas. . . . Tommy Jordan is teach­Co. . . . Jack Denton is with Desplenter Bros., ing night school and playing semi- pro basket­
ball. . . . Mauo* Kennedy is lialancin^ books 
for the Consumer Coal & Fuel Co. in Chicago. . . . Joe Knharieh ate the Sui-eeneys out of house und home on a recent visit. . . . Chuck O'Reilly and Chuck Sweeney played basketball for St. Bernard's in the C.Y.O. league. . . . Sweeney would like to hear from Ed HoKsn und Jim McGettrick. . . . 
"On the siiur of the moment I decided to take in the N.D.-N.Y.U. itamc in New York on February 11. I went up on Saturday after­noon and bumped into just a few of the fel­lows. Saw Johnny Mormn, ':i6, and Cy Stroker* VtT, at the Centre Club dance and bumped into Jim Waldron in the lobby of the Garden. After the Kume I saw Ivan Ivancevic who is working for a bank in New York. I've misplaced the paper containing the name and the address. Later in the eveninjc a few of us met up with Joe Mcssick at the German-American A. E. who was in town for the Kame: Joe had juat finishe<l his semester at 
N.U. and was out for a little vacation. I was disappointed in not seeinjc Vaslett, Har­nett, Kesicke, Shells, und that crowd but I hadn't made any preparation so I can't com­plain. 
"That's all the news except this dope from Bill Dooley: Chaunccy Rooney is with Enm­neers. Ltd,, in Colombia, South America: William J. Mulhall is an audit inspector for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. in X.Y.; Robert Mullen—the Milwaukee one—is taking graduate work in Berlin. Germany: William 
N. Collins is with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co, in the Bend; Johnny Beer is do­iuK catalogue circulation test work for Monky Wards in ChicaKO; Arthur Maehler, formerly of Oak Park, is with the South Bend Lathe works: Richard Carney has a training job with the F. W Woolworth Co, in LockjKirt, New York; Paul Fortino, down in Lawrence­burpT, Indiana, is with Sentirams; und Frank Coctrrove is in the chemist tablet division for Schielfelin Co. in Peekskill. New York, his home town. 
"Tiiter McGrath is still rourinn at C.U. in WushiuKton and visiting me occasionally. 1 also see him over at Trinity ColIeKe in Wash­ington around the Ijctter looking girls. 
"On January- 21 I sent post cards to Phil Bayer. Bub Browne. Bill Cour. Mtke Crowe, Don Fisher. Pete Shechan. Pat Stillasanu, Joe Wherlc, Frank Wukovits, and Joe Race. Some of the boys are still to be heard from, 
"Thanks for the cooperation, boys! 

"P.S, I'm still with the 'Union News' in Towson, * 
THE FACULTY MEMBER 
(Continued from Pa^c 142) 

takes money for wealth, excitement for pleasure, interferences for influ­ence, fame for wisdom, speed for progi-ess, and volubility for elo­quence." 
Nevertheless, these average men and women of our community are hungi-y for the right kind of influ­ence, are really ambitious to know the genuine from the counterfeit. They would be glad to lay hold of a principle or a standard that would be a gTiide. to them in improving their intellectual and moral lives. I recall an article in the New York Times literary supplement a few years, ago in which Mr. Haldemann-Julius, who publishes the familiar five cent book­lets on every subject from Aaron to Zarathustra, made an analysis of his sales which go into millions of copies. Classifying them according to sub­jects, he found those under sex came first, religion and philosophy second, and any form of self-improvement— how to write, to develop willpower, etc.—came thii-d. This showed, it seems to me, the desire for some kind of culture, though the readers may have ill understood what it really meant. Observe, too, how the title of such a book as Abbe Dimnet's "The Art of Thinking" became a best seller almost immediately. The psychology of the community sug­gests an eager desire for self-improvement and the power of the cultured man or woman. 
There would seem to me then, to be in our communities, a fertile field for the faculties of our Universities to do a real work; perhaps the best service they could render their gener­ation would be to present in a strik­ing and atti-active mannei', reasonable ideas and principles that would give our people anchorage amid the flood of talk that pours in upon them from some of the radio, newspaper and parlor philosophers; and some prin­ciples of genuine and sane criticism with which to examine the hundreds of theories and points of view that are presented to them. 
Opinion Is Transient 
G. K. Chesterton once said: "The chief idea of my life was taking things with gratitude, and not taking things for gi'anted"—^which is a broad philosophy that would be helpful to any person. If the University faculty can impart some of that spirit to our communities, it woul d contribute magnificently to the enlargement and enlightenment of public opinion. That opinion, as anyone who reflects must know, is today a veiy transient one, blown about by every wind of doc­trine. Even the ancient prejudices ­upon which speakers and writers could count fifty years ago are gone and i-eplaced by new ones, changing from week to week. Our old demo­oi-atic principles seem to he changing; for good or ill, no one knows. The people who are in the midst of these changes can not see the new. patterns, but the scholar who lives a life more or less detached, who dares to be lonely and live among the gi-eat un­changing truths, can see what is fun­damental and necessary for the peace and happiness of a people. This does not mean that a member of a Univer­sity faculty will be the best civic leader, the master of theory is not always the one to make effective the doctrine he teaches. Yet he or she has a solid Wew of the past, sees the direction of present movements, and is perhaps the only one capable of 
maintaining the intellectual values. The community doesn't know values except as they are presented to them attractively and feelingly by others; and leaders too often are interested in them only insofar as they minister to their particular ends. 
In this effort to influence effective­ly the community, however, the fac­ulty must take a page from the popu­lar leaders. I don't believe it could get very far with an academic presen­tation of any cultural subject. Eager as our communities seem to be to im­prove themselves, they have some of the fourteen year old youth's fear of the professor and the school manner. One of the qualities of the national leaders of today is the ability to adapt themselves to the likes and wants of the multitude. It is the art of the advertiser and the art of the radio speaker. I recently read that a radio program which has as its principals, two University professors, a sports writer and a musical expert, has as many as ten million listeners. It's a program to test the knowledge of the experts in literature, history, sports, music, everything; but it is all given out in so good humored and enter­taining a manner that the listeners drink in the information with the friendly manner. In Chicago, mem­bers of a University faculty carry on a radio round table discussion from coast to coast in so informal a man­ner that it sounds more like a family gi-oup about the dinner table than a group of serious professors. 
Competition in Culture 
We know, too, of the large following of America's Town Meeting, in which nearly every week University profes­sors take part in the discussion. Though the main talks are more or less formal, the discussion that fol­lows is friendly and informal. I real­ize that every professor may not be able'to reach this standard, but in an effort to influence culturally the com­munities of -America, you are put in competition with masters of the art of . influencing by their attractive presentation of every sort of doctrine. The faculty man or woman with pleasing personality, who can popu­larize the subject and make it attrac­tive, will find a host of willing listen­ers in the lecture hall and over the radio, and there is no doubt in my mind that a striking presentation of the great human lessons in our classic literature, the story of the world's history and our own inspiring Amer­ican adventure, a sane philosophy of government and of economics, would checkmate much of the disturbing teaching of the various isms opposed to Americanism, and in spite of the faults that are inevitable in all human institutions, 
make us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of. 

^Jne/tiaAi Co/ii6cnatw/i c^e>Jif,.^^ 
THE SECRET of Ciicstei-fields milder better taste...Me reason ivhi/ they ffive you more smok­ing pleasure .. . is the right combination of the world's best cigarette tobaccos rolled in pure cigarette paper. . . the blend that can't be copied. 
THEY SATISFY 
Cop)Tishi \9i% LiGCETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. 







