The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

J^3^y 6» ^^ 
, .- Dame You»d»­


viv dear «^^^ . learnea OJ­-I i-i the ^**^ ,a not 
Mott>er=> "' ^e bee" ""^ ^ . „4, M y» 

The Notre Dame Alumriui 
This magazine is published by the University of Notre Dainc, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo-. bcr 1} 1939, at the PostoIBce, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni CoundL 
James E. Annstrong, '25, Editor; John P. Bums, Managing Editor 
Vol. 29 JULY-AUGUST, 1951 No. 4 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., the University's fifteenth presidenc, was named to that position in 1946. By Canon Law he must retire in 1952 and the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund has been initiated to bring the University of Notre Dame Foimdation abreast of its schedule — $25,000,000 in ten years; 1952 will end 40 percent of the ten-year program begtu in 1947. and the $3,000,000 sought this year will equalize the schedule. 
The University of Notre Dame Foundation herewith announces the launching of the Father Cavanaugh Testi­monial Fund. The goal is $3,000,000 by July, 1952. 
This sum will be used to carry forward, or complete, projects of the Foundation's long-range program. It will stand as a tribute to one of Notre Dame's great leaders, who has done so much' to advance the program through its pioneering years. 
Tentatively, the $3,000,000 will be allocated as fol­lows: 
$1,750,000 for heat, power, and water facili­
ties for the present and future development of 
the campus; 

$750,000 for Science Building (needed because 
of increased construction and equipment costs); 
$350,000 to equip the buildings generously 
provided by major gifts; 


$150,000 for a sewage disposal system. 
It was in the critical year of 1946 that Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, was elevated from Vice-President to President of Notre Dame. His administration has been one of the most notable in the history of the University. However, like his predecessors in office. Father Cavanaugh- would be the first to insist that it was the loyalty and devotion of many others—members of the administration, faculty, students, alumni and friends ^-o splendid team of which he has been the captain— that made these achievements possible. 
Under Father Cavanaugh's leadership the University of Notre Dame Foundation launched in 1948 a program 

July-August, 1951 
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C 
to acquire $25,000,000 of urgently needed funds within the ensuing 10-year period. -; ; 
Realization of this goal has been achieved in ac­cordance with a remarkable time-table—to date. Since'. 1948, $7,000,000 have been given to Notre Dame by! alumni and friends. 

These generous gifts—including the Science Building; 
E. M. Morris Inn, I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building and the Fred J. and Sally Rsher Memorial Residence Halt—have intensified the need for the other projects in the long-range program—heat, water, sew-­age disposal and the like. These necessary projects will cost $3,000,000. 
Now, Father Cavanaugh is entering his last year.as President of Notre Dame. Under canon law his term must end in 1952. 
If by July, 1952, this $3,000,000 has been contrib­uted, the long-range program will be moving on sched­ule. $10,000,000 of the $25,000,000 will hove been contributed during the first four years of the proposed ten-year period. 
This will be the finest possible tribute, to Fdther Cavanaugh. He will regard it as the finest possible be­quest he could leave to his successor! 
opening of the August 1 public sale. 
'Criticol' Games Still Bringing Headaches in Sales for Indiana, Detroit, Iowa, South-
em Cal., Pitt, and North Carolina now-

Distribution of Football Tickets to Alumni rank in that approximate order. The 
The 1951 Advance Sale of football tickets to contributing alumni (as of 1950) closed on July 14th, in accord­ance with the program previously well-publicized in winter and spring issues of the ALUMNUS. Perhaps a progress report is in order, as of the date this is written, July 26th. 
The sale came off pretty much as anticipated, with minor deviations here and there, in favor of the purchaser. For example, we mailed blanks for Michigan State to CONTRIBUTING alumni in the entire state of Michigan, plus contributors falling roughly with­in a 250 mile radius of Lansing. The radius was dictated by the number of contributing' alumni in the area, and not by geography alone. The Advance Sale forms for this game actually went to the state of Michigan; to Ohio from a point just north of Mansfield; to Indiana from Indianapolis north; and to Illinois from a point just north of Peoria. After the returns were in We also found it possible to include an­other general use form for two tickets to alumni in' the state of Michigan only. 
For SMU, we mailed an Advance Sale form to contributing alumni every­where, and after the deadline, we sent another SMU application to alum­ni in Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Kentucky. The potential, of course, was much greater than our remaining supply of tickets, but at least all alumni covered above were given an opportunity to order if they acted promptly. The general use forms for ordering additional tickets were mailed from Notre Dame July 16th through July 20th, staggered ac­cording to Postal Zone. (This policy has been followed for the last several years in order that the alumnus at a distance be not penalized.) 
Unfortunately, the Navy game at Baltimore has been added to our "crit­ical" list, along with SMU and Michi­gan State. The City of Baltimore has run into material procurement difficul­ties in its stadium renovation, gotten under way two years ago. Where form­erly Baltimore Stadium accommodated some 65,000, the 1951 capacity %nll be somewhere around 40,000—probably slightly under. Thus Notre Dame's al­lotment is gravely reduced, TOth the net result that our supply will barely cover orders from contributing alumni; 
and the orders for additional tickets on general forms now coming in will un­doubtedly sell us out in a matter of days. Nor were we able, because of this reduction, to take care of several alumni clubs in the east which were accustomed to running excursions to Baltimore. 

Summing up, then, in addition to 
1931 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 29—Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 5—Detroit at Detroit 
(Night Game) Oct. 13—So. Methodist at N.D. Oct. 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 27—Purdue at Notre Dame Nov. 3—^Navy at Baltimore Nov. 10—^Mich. State at E. Lansing Nov. 17—^No. Carolina at 
Chapel Hill Nov. 24—Iowa at Notre Dame Dec 1—Southern California at 


Los Angeles 

capacities already reached for SMU and Michigan State, it appears that Navy and Purdue will be added to the list of early sellouts on or shortly after North Carolina sale has not as yet reached the anticipated &gures which prompted us to place a four-ticket limit on the general application blanks. Hence any alumnus who wishes to ex­ceed this limit, or who having ordered but four would like to order more, is welcome to do so. 
—Football Ticket Committee. 


Miles Monogram Head 

New title for Frank Miles, '22, is President, Notre Dame National Mono­gram Club. 
Mr. Miles, better identified as "Rangy," was elected at the annual meeting of the Monogram Club held in conjunction with the Alumni Re­unions. He replaces Bill Sheehan, 1925 baseball captain. 
Other officers for the 1951-'52 year are Greg Kice, New York, Eastern Vice-President; Joe O'Neill, Midland, Tex., Southern Vice-President; Bill Ma-honey, Phoenix, Ariz., Western Vice-President; Bill Earley, South Bend, Secretary-Treasurer. Directors chosen are Joe Morrissey, Cincinnati; Harvey Foster, Indianapolis; Art Cronin, De­troit, and Ray Roy, South Bend. 
Father Vincent Mooney of Columbus, O., was named chaplain. 

Cahill Explains the Ticket Situation 
Ticket Manager Bob Cahill (behind the water intcfaer) at 1931'$ Reun'on Dinner. Oonie Donovan (standing, right) denies that the joke was worth a pair of Southern Methodist tickets. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

'Old Guard' Fading Fagan, Steiti, Berfsch, Sdnford 
Death took a heavy toll over the recent 

-weeks of familiar names in the alumni Deaths Occur Since June 13lh 
news. 
William P. Devine, '90, a student at Notre Dame from 1890, Chicago dairy head, for many years an active member of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, and a generous benefactor to the University, died in Chicago on July 9, and was buried in that city on July 11. 
Michael J. McCoi-mack, LL.B. '99, Memphis, Tenn., Whose father attended Notre Dame in the '60s and whose son, Donnell, '36, was a third generation of the distinguished Tennessee Notre Dame family, died in Memphis on June 28. Mr. McCormack, a retired business man. was active in community and Notre Dame affairs. 
Vitus G. Jones, A.B. '02, LL.B. '03, prominent South Bend attorney, and for many years a leader in the Notre Dauie Club of the St. Joseph Valley, died in South Bend on June 8 after a long ill­ness. His wife and son, Francis, A.B. '29, survive him. After graduation from the University, Mr. Jones was for some time a member of its faculty. He was active in civic and business affairs, president of the county bar association, president of the alumni Club, officer and director of several local businesses. He enjoyed a high regard among members of his profession and his fellow citizens. 
Robert E. Proctor, LL.B. '04, Elkhart, Indiana, criminal lawyer, former presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Associ­ation, past grand worthy president of the Fraternal Order of Eagles, and prominent in Middle West sports circles, died in Elkhart on June 21. Mr. Proctor was also widely known in Indiana Dem­ocratic politics, though holding only one office. State senator, himself. Mr. Proctor is survived by his wife, by two sons, Robert E. Jr., B.S.C.E. '33, and Thomas G., A.B. 35, LL.B. '38, and two daugh­ters, Mrs. Clarence Eurist and Mrs. George Lutz. 
Herbert N. Mendelson, '12 a "Minim" at Notre Dame for many years, prom­inent Detroit and Los Angeles business man, died in Santa Monica on June 23 after an illness caused by cancer. Mr. Mendelson was an auto dealer and speed­boat racer, winning much attention for the University by the victory of his boats named after Notre Dame, one of which won the Hydroplane Cup in 1937. His father was a founder of the Fisher Body Corp. Mr. Mendelson at the time of his death was a member of the Uni­versity Advisory Council of the College of Commerce. 
July-August, 1951 
The "Old Guard," seeing its ranks thinned by death is not alone in its losses. 
Within five weeks, four prominent alumni of more recent graduation have died, three of them suddenly. All were active in Alumni work and well-known in their respective communities. 
Michigan Circuit Judge Joseph F. Sanford, '21, died suddenly June 13 in his home in Muskegon. He had just risen and had collapsed from a heart at­tack. One of the youngest men ever to become a Circuit Judge in Michigan, Judge Sanford was in his third six-year term at death. He was 53. Known as a "human judge" for his compassion and understanding, he received a floral trib­ute from the 44 prisoners in the Mus­kegon (Mich.) County Jail — prisoners who had been sent there by him. Sur­vivors: his wife, the former Florence Peterson of South Bend, son Jerome and daughters Carol and Mrs. William Ja­cobson. A brother, James Sanford, '15 of Chicago and two sisters. Sisters Mary Jerome and Ida Catherine of Detroit also survive. 
Paul Bertseh, '29, of Akron drowned July 4. A former president of the Ak­ron Alumni Club and active in Founda­tion work, Mr. Bertseh left his wife and four children: Barbara, Paul Jr., James and Robert 
Ten days later William N. Seitz, '30, of Fox Chapel, Pa. died in a seaplane crash in Ontario, 40 miles north of Buf­falo. He and two companions were north bound on a fishing trip. Hr. Steitz was piloting the plane. He is survived by his vrife, the former Edna Diebold and three sons, William, 19, Jack, 16 and Edward, 12; and a daughter Jean­nie, seven months. 
On July 19, Vincent Fagan, '20 died after a year's illness, in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. 
Prof. Fagan was co-architect for four campus buildings: the dining halls, and residence halls Morrissey, Lyons and Howard. He entered the teaching phase of the University's Architecture Depart­ment on graduation and had designed many structures in South Bend. His. wife Agnes and a daughter Maureen 

Canada, Texas and California at N.D. 
Miss Lois Nolan, of Winnep^ and Miss Jessamyn West of Napa, CaHf., amtaiimg ykUk Prof. Tom Cassidy, director of the Writer's Conference, and Skter M. Fiands' Johnston,'O.S.U., of Pecos, Tex. 
Faculty Award to Kent 

Dr. Raymond P. Kent, Professor of Finance at the University, has been named the 1951 recipient of the Lay Faculty Award for distinguished serv­ice during the 1950-51 schoolyear. 
The award, which carries a ?500 

purse, is made annually by the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association. Last year's 
award went to Dr. Lawrence H. Bal­
dinger. Dean of the College of Science. 
Dr. Kent, a graduate of the Univer­

sity of Pittsburgh in 1931, joined the 
faculty in the College of Commerce at 
Notre Dame in 1938. Before joining the 
Notre Dame staff, the award recipient 
taught courses in economics, accounting 
and political science at St. Vincent Col­
lege, Latrobe, Pa. 
The Notre Dame professor, who also received Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from the University of Pittsburgh, is the author of a text­book, Money mid Banking, which is widely used in college teaching circles. 

Two New Trustees 

Two civic and industrial leaders of South Bend have accepted membership on the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at the University of Notre Dame. 
New members of the board, an­nounced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, piresident, are Harold S. Vance, Chairman of the Board and President of the Studebaker Corporation, and Joseph F. Donahue, President of Gen­eral Building Materials, Inc. 
Acceptance by Mr. Vance and Air. Donahue raises to three the number of South Bend industrialists on the board. Bernard J. VoU, President of Sibley Machine and Foundry, has served since 1943. A fourth South Bend leader and past-president of the trustees, E. M. Morris, '06, Chairman of the Board cf the Associates Investment Company, died on May 8rd. 

1,513 in Summer School 
A total of 1,513 were enrolled for the 

1951 Summer Session at the Universi­
ty. The session ends Aug. 10. 
Of the total 700 were registered in the Graduate School. 
Workshops and special events con­ducted this summer at Notre Dame in­cluded Vocation Institute from July 19 to July 22, the Notre Dame Writers' Conference from June 25 to June 30, the Workshop in the Teaching of His­tory session, the Workshop in the Curriculum from June 26 to July 17, 
and the Workshop in Special Education from. July 18 to August 1. 
At the Cleveland Club Summer Picnic Dick Maier, Jim CoUeran, Chuck Rohr — the Host — Ward Leahy and Norb Rascfaer. The picnic was. held at Rohr's farm. 

Closed Retreats Back 

A series of three small "closed" re­treats will precede the larger 29th an­nual Laymen's Retreat to be held August 16th to 19th at Notre Dame. 
Father M. A. Foran, Retreat Direc­tor, announced that the first of the "closed" retreats will be July 26th to 29th. The second will run from August 2nd to 5th, and the third from August 9th to 12th. 
Father Foran said that at the smaller "closed" retreats, at which he expects approximately 100 Catholic laymen in attendance at each, the retreats will be conducted on a more intimate scale than the larger one. More opportunity 
The magazine dodge is back. 
And it b a thorough, throbbing headache to both the Alumni Asso­ciation and to accredited magazine canvassing groups. 
Complaints to the Alunmi Office cite instances of this or that person (always unknown to the Alumni Office) soliciting subscriptions to publications, on the plea that the subscriptions will help the individual pay his way through Notre Dame. 
Neither the University nor the Alumni Office authorizes solicitations of any kind, and Alumni arc asked to be wary of any such approach. 

will be available, he said, for individual counseling. 
More than 1,800 Catholic laymen from 30 states attended the 28th an­nual Laymen's Retreat held at Notre Dame last year. Father Foran expects the bulk of retreatants for the three "closed" retreats this year to come from the states of Indiana, Michigan, Illinois and Ohio. 

McMurtry Finishes High 

A Notre Dame freshman has finished first in the United States in a test among students from Naval ROTC units in colleges and. universities throughout the nation to determine those who will receive appointments to the United States Naval Academy. 
George J. McMurtry, of Rockville, Ind., who just completed his freshman year in Engineering, made the highest score among the 156 naval students from 52 Naval ROTC units in the United States. McMurtry is a member of the Naval ROTC unit at Notre Dame, which is commanded by Captain Thomas F. Conley, Jr., USN. 
The competition to select nominees for the United States Naval Academy is held annually. Naval ROTC imits at 52 colleges and universities throughout the nation nominate their three top stu­dents to take the examination. Only ten students, however, are selected to enter the Naval Academy. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 


Ford Scholars at ND 
Three of a total of thirty-seven boys 

•who won scholarships under the new-Scholarship Program for Sons and Daughters of Ford Motor Company Em­ployees have elected to study at Notre Dame. 
Father Louis Thornton, C.S.C, an­nounced that recipients of the scholar­ships already accepted at Notre Dame are Bernard J. LaLonde, Dearborn, Mich., Forst E. Brown, Louisville, Ky., and Philip C. Chinn, Boyal Oak, Mich. 
Father Thornton said that according to the terms of the Ford Scholarship Program, which is administered by the Ford Motor Company Fund, all winners will receive full tuition and customary academic fees at any recognized college or university they may choose. 
For scholarship winners who choose a privately-endowed college or univer­sity, such as Notre Dame, the Fund makes an additional $500 annual grant to such schools for each scholar in at­tendance, in recognition of the fact that at privately-endowed colleges and uni­versities the student's tuition and fees do not cover the entire cost of his education. 
Kecipients of the four-year scholar­ship were selected in nationwide compe­tition among eligible children of Ford Motor Company employees. To be eli­gible for scholarships the students had to be in the top third of their high school class and take a competitive examina­tion given by the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J. Class stand­ing, examination grades, extra-curricu­lar activities, and recommendations from high school principals and senior counselors were scored to determine the winners. 
Murphy Does It Again 

The University Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team, for the second time in three years, has been awarded the Secretary of the Navy Trophy. 
The Notre Dame team won the tro­phy by scoring 1430 out of a possible 1500 points in the national competition among 52 competing Naval R.O.T.C. units. This score, according to the Chief of Naval Personnel, is the highest ever attained in the annual Secretary of the Navy Rifle Match. 
In addition to the team victory, Donal 

J. Murphy, Notre Dame senior from Hawthorne, N. J., won the individual national championship in the matches by firing a 296 out of a possible 300. Murphy who also for the past three years has been the individual national champion in the William Randolph Hearst Naval R.O.T.C. Competition, came within two points of the all-time record he set in 1949 in the Secretary of the Navy matches. 
Besides Murphy, other members of the Notre Dame Naval R.O.T.C. rifle 
. team are: James W. Hartman, of Rom­ney, W. Va.; Francis G. Brickson, of San Antonio, Tex.; William K. Hayden, in , of Highland Park, Mich.; and Wayne A. Six, of Quincy, 111. 

Always a Doctor in the House 
Doc Jerry Hayes (far right) lined up six otheis from the Silver Anniversary Class. From the left: Herb Burt, Ed Burke, Tom Burke, Bill Reid, Rudy Goepfrich and Joe Hyland. 
July-August, 1951 


Spellman at Law Meet 

The Notre Dame Law. Association annual meeting, held in connection with the Almnni Reunion June 8 and 9 set Sept. 20 as the date for the annual luncheon of the association in. New York City. 
" Hotel Biltmore will be the scene of 
the luncheon, which is in conjanction 
with the proceedings of the American 
Bar Association. The luncheon is sched:­
uled for 12:30 pan. 
His Eminence. Francis Cardinal Spell-

man of New York will be honored 
guest and principal speaker at the 
meeting. „ 
Other features of the annual meeting 

were the naming of candidates for fiye 
vacancies on the Law Association Board 
of Directors, the dedication of the Nat­
ural Law library and the Moot Court 
finals in the Law library. 
Judges of the Hoot Court were Joe 

McGlynn, 12, Judge M. M. Oshe, 12, 
and Hugh Wall, '36. Winners of the 
Dean's Award and of cash prizes were 
Joseph C. Spaulding and E. Hilton 
Farley. 
Directors nominated were Clarence J. 

Donovan, '21, Joseph B. McGlynn, 12, 
Hugh E. Wall, Jr., '36, R. Conroy Scog­
gins, '24, and H. Clay Johnson, '34. Bal­
lots will be mailed Oct. 1. 

Bishop Lane Consecrated 

Loras T. Lane, '32, is now Bishopj­designate and will be consecrated Aug. 20 in Dubuiiue. 
Archbishop Leo Binz, Coadjutor of Dubuque will be consecrator and will be assisted by co-consecrators Bishop Joseph C. Willpng of Pueblo, Colo., and Bishop Edwiurd A. Fitzgerald of Winona, Minn. 
Consecration ceremonies will take place in St. Raphael Cathedral and the new bishop will be named Titular Bishop of Bencenna and Auxiliary of Dubnqn& The sermon will be preached by Bishop John P. Cody, Auxiliary Bishop of St Louis. 

Crosson to Paris 

Fredwick J. Crosson, a g^radnate stu­dent in the Department of Philosophy, has been awarded a one^year Fnlbrij^t Fellowship at the University of Paris. 
A native of Behnar, N. J., Crosson is the second alumnus to receive a Fnl­bright Fellowship for the 1951-52 aca­demic year. Francis X. Slade, another philosophy major from. Staunton, Va., will begin study in S^tember at the University of Lonvain, Belgium. 
The fdlowship of Mr. Crosson will provide tuition and a monthly stipend of 220,000 French francs daring fhe 1951-52 schoolyear. 



Report Successful 1951 Reunion 
Class Secretaries, Alumni Board Participate in June Meetings 
The reason for that by-line is simply 

to establish this round-up story as com­
ing from the "voice of experience," and 
to channel a cry for your help. 
A number of things are happening to 

the Reunions that should be understood. 
We are pioneering, and we are making 
both discoveries and mistakes. But since 
our cause is yours, we lay the cards on 
the table for mutual consideration. 
The old Notre Dame Commencement IJeunion was not particularly a Class event. It was a general alumni reunion, inter-laced with the highlights of Com­mencement weekend. Physical facilities were outgrown by the mutual programs, and alumni were becoming increasingly embarrassed by being forced to thread their way among Seniors and parents, with faculty and adnMnistration increas­ingly unable to take time out for the reunion amenities. 
The third year of separation indicats.^ the basic soundness of the principle. But it is also undeniable that the new pro­gram tends to limit attendance to the Classes of the 5-Year periods—in 1952 these will be '02, '07, '12, '17, '22, '27, '32, '37, '42 and '47. As a by-product of this situation we have two problems. Major of these is the responsiblity on the Reunion Class to plan the Reunion for its members. This is a job for the Class officers and a Local Committee, working with the Alumni Office. It is no longer an optional or last-minute project. The other problem is to determine wheth­er any substantial number of alumni outside the Reunion years wish to come back annually, or in off-reunion years and if so whether they feel the need of a program set up specially for them. 
Registration and residence in 1951 were in the East campus Halls—Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh and Zahm, not as familiar or as colorful as the older and West Halls. But maintenance problems demanded this concession to campus welfare. We hope to move back to the West campus in 1952. 
Golf is a major attraction with the ND course almost unpopulated by other than alumni, and the tournament being directed by the experienced Hugh Bums and staff. The awards at the Alumni Banquet are annual entertain­ment highlights. 
BY JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 

quate spots with food facilities for the growing Class groups. Local Commit­tee planning has solved much of the difficulty, but the success of the Reunion depends on a well-organized Class Re­union Dinner. The new Morris Inn may solve some of the problems, though this thought is advanced with considei'­able leeway for modification in the light of limitations. The 1951 affairs are treated in the Class News of this issue. 
An added feature of the 1951 Re­union weekend was the laying of the cornerstone of the new Science Build­ing, a gift of alumni and friends, no­tably the neighbors in the St. Joseph Valley. The Alumni Association was represented by President R. Conroy Scoggins, the University by Fathers Cavanaugh, Hesburgh and Murphy, the College of Science by Dean Baldinger, and the friends by Paul Gilbert of South Bend. 
A meeting of Foundation Governors and City Committeemen was held this year, as in 1950, for the conference advantage of those workers back for the Reunions. Vice-President William 
J. Sherry of the Alumni Association and John Cackley of the Foundation Office presided. 
Class Masses on Saturday morning have become an increasingly attended the Class, held in the chapel of the hall part of the Class program of the week­end, honoring the deceased members of where the Class is residing, said by either a priest Classmate or some famil­iar priest of the Class era on the cam­pus. For example, the Class of 1941 had Father Thomas Brennan (Sr.) say a special Mass on Sunday morning foi­the late Jim Graham. 
Brand new in substance, but a part of the broad effort over the years to inject an academic item or two into the pro-

Ryan and Durst Insisted on Bow Ties 
Class dinners are still a problem in Class President Ray Durst (far left) and five others of the '26 Class. From Ray's left, securing an adequate number of ade-Iz Probst, Class Secretary John Ryan, Geo^e Hartnett, Doc Gelson and Art Suder. 
gram, was the summary session on Marriage, an adaptation of the popular undei^graduate Marriage Institute, ad­dressed by Fathers Theodore Hesburgh and William Botzum in the Law Audi­torium. A small crowd was more than repaid with two presentations of out­standing interest and enlightenment. More planning of timing and topics is indicated if the serious side of the week­end is to grow. 
The Monogram Club, much more ac­tive than ever, enjoying a new liaison with the Alumni Office in addressing and mailing records, held its annual meeting and election of officers, as treated in a separate story, Frank Miles succeeding Bill Sheehan to continue the direction, during the organization ex­pansion program, in the local area. 
The Class of 1926 enjoyed its own Beunion program as described in the Class Notes, but also enjoyed the added highlight of the 25-Year weekend as guests of the President of the Univer­sity at the Saturday luncheon. Here another academic note was struck in a commemoration of the anniversary of the Encyclicals on labor, through a talk by Rev. Thomas McDonagh, CS.C. 

The Law Alumni Association has be­come an important and active part of the Reunion weekend. The story is a separate one, but the Moot Court, the Cocktail Hour, the Directors' meetings, and a special 1951 feature, the Dedica­tion of the new Natural Law Library, contributed memorable events to the weekend. 
Saturday afternoon, in the absence of a baseball game, the Football High­lights of 1950 were shown in Washing­ton Hall for.those who^had reached the stage of consent for vicarious exercise and entertainment. 
Highlights of the entire weekend, aside from the individual Class Re­unions, was, as always, the Annual Ban­quet of the Alumni Association, featur­ing the addresses of President of the University Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,' CS.C, and President of the Alumni As­sociation, R. Conroy Scoggins, '24, Hous­ton, Texas. The annual report of the Alumni Secretary is separately pre-' sented in this issue. President Seogpns' eloquent appeal to alumni for unselfish participation both as donors and as agents in the University's financial pic­ture, was directed around the first pub­lic announcement of the Father John Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, c.s.c. Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame, closed the official weekend with an outstanding sermon to alumni on Christian Marriage, at the Mass for Alumni on Sunday morning in Sacred Heart Church. 
July-August, 1951 
In planning for the 1952 Reunions, their national oAcen and Local fCamr 
the Alumni Office will welcome the sug­mittees. We are partienlariy- amdoda 

gestions of all alumni who have enjoyed to know what yon enjoyed most, or what the three Reunion Weekends of 1949­
would make this Weekend most manor­50-51. We will of course cooperate able for yoro. It is not a Betzeat er a fully, and already are to a substantial Seminar, but it should mean srancAhing­extent, with the 1952 Reunion Classes, special to yon. 


The War Year Class— 1941 —Can Still Smile 
The Hotel LaSalle's Bronzewood Room was the scene of 1941's Reauoa IManer. BcfoK the food started, this quartet marked time for a pictare. 

1926 Was There, to Be Sure 
From the left: Elbert Mahoney, Wade Sullivan, Walter Tioiuui, Bffl Moore awl Mr. Oooleyl 

Bishop Pursley*s Graduation Address 
It is generally assumed that anyone who speaks on Graduation Day will speak about education. Since for many years in many places, graduation cere­monies have been held, it is likely by this time that both subject and audi­ence have been exhausted. But there is always reason, and more reason now than ever, to refresh our minds on the meaning of Christian education. What is it? I think we shall find a satisfac­tory answer in a very brief account of the growing years of Jesus Christ, the only reference to that period of His life in the whole Gospel: "He advanced in wisdom and age and grace with God and men." Here, in all its essential features, is the program of Christian education. 
First of all. He "advanced." This is the key word to all that follows. We know of course what it means, but we can fail to understand all that it means. We do not advance merely by moving from one place to another. We advance only when we march steadily forward, consciously and resolutely pressing to­ward a goal which is worthy of our dig­nity. A story is told about the Ameri­can writer. Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes. One day he entered the grounds of a mental hospital, thinking it was a col­lege. Discovering his mistake he apolo­gized to the gatekeeper and remarked humorously: "I suppose, after all, there isn't a great deal of diflFerence." But the gatekeeper replied: "Oh, yes Sir, there is! In this place you have to show some improvement before you can get out." 
Of course, I am not suggesting any such comparison in this instanca. But I know that students can get out of school without getting much out of their -schooling. They can leave with the same little bundle of bad habits with which they started. They can be graduated without any notable change in character or personality, without a keen interest in their own progress, without a stimu­lating desire for greater knowledge, without a consuming love for truth and virtue, without a deep understanding of the value of what they have received, without a clear idea of what they ought to be as a result of their education. I do not say that this happens always, or very often. I say only that when it does happen there has been no real advance­ment. 
Advancement, moreover, must con­tinue through the impulse provided by formal education. iThere are people who appear to think that one can go to school and "get" an education much as one goes to a store and gets a loaf of bread. Education is no such packaged commodity, and getting it is no such simple transaction. Graduation merely marks a point of departure from the routine of organized study to active participation in organized life, on a wider and more varied scale, with larg­er opportunities and responsibilities. There is still much truth to be known, and God has given us a mind to know it. There is still much good to be sought, and God has given us a will to seek it. There is still much beauty to be appreciated, and God has given us the faculties to appreciate it. 
All these powers of mind, heart and soul are capable of ever-increasing de­velopment by more and more continu­ous and mature exercise. • If education is the process of making us all that we can become, it can never be completed on this earth and ' must never . be stopped. Even the most promising stu­dent may fail to realize this, and so fail to reap the full harvest of his talents and the full benefit of his education. 
Now let us inquire, in what direc­tion did Jesus advance? First, in age. There is nothing to do about getting older. There is no magic fountain of youth, no secret formula for holding off the ravages and wrinkles of time, all the singing commercials to the con­trary notwithstanding! In our present school system physical education is given sufficient attention to insure a reasonable and necessary care of ths body, a conservation of health and cul­tivation of strength which are certainly factors that contribute to success in a world that often proves to be a rough antagonist. (I sometimes wonder if it is possible any longer to die a natural death. It seems that the life is pounded out of us by the relentless demands of modem living.) 
But there is another point of greater importance: Christian education re­gards and reverences the body, with all its functions, as a work of God, the habitation of His spirit, the agent of His will, the partner of the soul in working out their common destiny. That is why, all superficial reasons aside, we must avoid excess and abuse that weaken the body and render it im­fit to be a strong, able and willing servant. Even in this matter we can learn much from the growing Christ, emerging into the perfection of His manhood. His life in Nazareth, plain and peaceful, filled with wholesome work and play and prayer, is still the best way to acquire the rugged endur­ance, the balance and poise of inter­related powers, with which to meet the crucial tests of later years. No man nurtured in the soft lap of luxury, pampered and spoiled by indolence and self-indulgence, could have lived and died as He did. 
Jesus advanced also in wisdom. Though youth is poetically pictured as the care-free springtime of life, it is really the time for serious thought and critical decision. Wisdom is not the ex­clusive attribute of ag^e; certainly there is no substitnte;for it in the practicaL. affairs of life, particularly so when every i>attem of life is complex, as it is today. The opposite of wisdom is folly, the chief mark of which is indifference 

Joe Farrell Gets Around—This Time, Erie 
J. Newton Cackley (eyeglasses, front) FoundatioD Staff Project INrector sits with the Erie Club for a meeting. Others, front row: Joe Barber, Pennsylvania Foundation Governor Joseph Farrell, Mr. CacUey, Bob Weschler. Standing, Geiry O'Connor, Ed Recker, Bill McGannon, Dick Daley, Charlie Wittman and George Mead. 

Rubio Was There—Song, Cap and All 
Baseball Coach Clarence E. (Jake) Kline denies he had to lock the windows and bar the doors to make these members- of '21 hold still for a portrait. The place. Hotel LaSalle; the occasion, 1921'$ Friday night dinner. 
to causes and consequences. There is no surer and better road to disaster, a road that is crowded with human traf­fic every day and night of the year. If our gn:eat democracy should ever go to pieces, it will do so for only one basic reason: because we did not have the wisdom to govern ourselves. If educa­tion were only a matter of telling us more and more things about more and more things, without showing us what they are for and what they are worth; if it were merely a matter of teaching us to know something without inspir­ing us to be something, I cannot see how it could be, in any realistic sense, a preparation for life, which involves repeated choices on the basis of our own evaluations. 

A student who knows the difference between the cells in his brain or his blood stream but not the difference be­tween his body and his soul, between his desires and his duties, has acquired some knowledge but he has gained no wisdom. A student who knows the cor­rect answer to a problem in mathe­matics but not the right answer to a problwn in human conduct has grown in knowledge, but he has not advanced in wisdom. If, in a word, our purpose in educating the student were merely to enlarge his capacity to know but not also to deepen his power to think and to understand, not also to discipline his power to feel and to love, not also to urge him to aspire and to strive, then we should be conferring upon him a doubtful favor, a dangerous gift. For 
we should be sending him into battle imtrained, unskilled, with weapons he does not know how to use. Is it any wonder in our day that the outcome of this unequal struggle is so often sur­render and defeat? 

Finally, Jesus advanced in grace with God and men. There is no room for this mystical word in the vocabulary of education outside the Catholic Church. It would mean at best some refinement of natural properties or inclinations. But we regard it as touching the very highest function of education. If man were merely an .animal, an animated body, more intelligent, more sensitive, more perfectly organized than other animals but not essentially different from other animals, then, obviously, ed­ucation could have only one purpose: to get this animal ready to compete suc­cessfully with other animals of his kind, to fight for his own existence and sur­vival in the common herd, to grab more of the good things available than the other animals and thus secure tor him­self the enjoyment of more animal com­forts. If you were to attend certain institutions of higher learning you might get the impression that all this is true in theory; and if you were to observe the activities of certain people 
you would see how the theory works out in practice. It is really a pretty sight! 
If, however, man is a creature of God, endowed with a rational nature, and immortal soul, destined to be a child of God through the Blood of His 
Son, created primarilyto know and love 
and serve God, deyated to a sopema­
tural life by sanctifying grace and thus 
made like unto God and worthy to be 

.with God forever; and if this life of all 
living must be preserved at the cost of 
everlasting death, then it is clear to all 
who believe, that education has a very-
different and tremendously more im­
portant job to do. 
This is the measure of the respsnsi­
bility of those who undertake to edu­
cate'their fellow-men. It is the full 
recognition of all the fundamental 
truths about man that gives to Catho­
lic education its Catholic character, 
universal and c(miplete, meeting the 
needs of the whole man as God made 
him in his effort to become all that God 
wants hiin to be. But even this Idnd of 
education we do not exalt beyond its 
human limitations. We do not consider 
it sufBcient in itself. We believe that 
God's grace is necessary for the patee­
tion of our nature. In our schools we 
can only do our best to direct and dis­
pose the student to recognize his own 
need of grace, to show him where and 
how to get it, to persuade him to use it 
for his own betterment. 

In taking this ideal view of the pur­pose of education and this long-range view of its effects, we do not overlook its immediate ends. We know that we must prepare the student to earn his living in some honorable pursuit, by some profitable occupation, trade or profession. We know that we must train him to take his place in society as a loyal and useful citizen. But we know also that we do not endanger but rather enhance his hope of success in his chosen field if we have helpei him to become an obedient child of God, a devoted brother of Christ and of aU men in Christ, a worthy member of God's kingdom on earth, a deserving heir of His kingdom in heaven. 
This is what it means to advance in grace with God and men. This is the aim and effort of Christian education, the kind of education which you, gradu­ates, have received. God grant that its fruits may be multiph'ed in your latt&e life, remembering always that 3rour later life is not in time only but in eternity. Yon will remember, if. you hold fast the traditions of this great school, whose very name suggests that it is more than a school; that it is truly a mother, your Alma Mater. You will remember, if you seek to verify in jmu lives this pledge of lojralty by another grateful son of that glorious Lady who looks down upon you today from.her golden throne: "Her graduates may walk alone or they 
may rise to fame. But in their humble hearts they all be­
long to Notre Dame." 

Laetare Medal Winner 

First Texan to receive the Laetare Medal in its 69-year history is John Henry Phelan, Sr., of Beaumont. 
Mr. Phelan, an outstanding philan­thropist and • business executive was lauded in the presenting citation, made by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.S.c, as "the type of conscientious business leader who always puts the principles of honesty and justice above all the con­trivances of temporary expediency." 
The 1951 Laetare winner, who suc­ceeds Gen. J. Lawton Collins has given more than §1,000,000 to Catholic organ­izations and has donated altars in 225 Catholic Churches. He has been knighted twice by the papacy, having the titles of Knight of St. Gregory and Knight of Malta. 
Present for the citation, at a special ceremony in Beaumont were members 
. of the Phelan family, E. Conroy Scog­gins, '24, Alumni Association president; Mr. and Mrs. George W. Strake of Houston, Rt. Rev. Monsignor Thomas Shannon of Lake Forest, 111., Most Eev. William Wendelin J. Nold, Bishop of Galveston, and J. Arthur Haley, Uni­versity director of public relations. 
Gould Library Opened 

Dedication ceremonies for a unique new Natural Law Library in the Col­lege of Law at the University were held June 9 during the Spring mee.ing of the Notre Dame Law Association. 
Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, O., busi­ness executive, donated the new librai-y. Mr. Gould, for the past three years, has sponsored the annual Natural Law In­stitute in the Notre Dame College of Law. 
Known as the Alvin A. Gould Collec­tion, the library is believed to be the only one of its kind in the world. The Gould Collection consists of a complete and representative group of books and materials on the Natural Law and is accessible to scholars and students of the Natural Law. 

Officiating at the library dedication ceremonies were Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, c.S.c, President of the Univer­sity, Dean Clarence E. Manion and Mr. Gould. 
Bonus Baby to ND 

A seventeen - year - old youth whose chief concern in signing a professional baseball contract was the opportunity to practice his religion fatihfuUy is go­ing to use a portion of an $80,000 bonus received from the Philadelphia Phillies to achieve a life-long ambition—a Cath­olic college education at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Direc­tor of Admissions, announced the ac­ceptance for the September semester of Theodore Kazanski, of Detroit, who re­ceived a bonus of $80,000 for signing with the Phillies. 
Ted Kazanski, a graduate of St. Ladis­laus High School in Hamtramck, Mich., applied for admission to Notre Dame immediately upon receipt of his finan­cial bonus from the Phillies. Sister M. Jerome, Principal of St. Ladislaus High School, told Father Thornton that had it not been for the fabulous bonus re­ceived by Kazanski, the youth would not have been financially able to receive a college education. He chose Notre Dame, she said, because "it will ground him still more firmly in his faith." 
"The baseball scouts told me that one of his greatest concerns in considering a team to sign with was the number of Catholic players on the team and the possibilities of practicing his religion," Sister M. Jerome wrote in a letter to Father Thornton. "He is genuinely pious, receives the sacraments frequent­ly and Holy Communion ahnost daily, attends devotions regularly, is fervent at prayers and lives by a high moral code." 
Fellowship to Price 

Dr. Charles C. Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry at the Uni­versity, has received a one-year renewal of a fellowship from the Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Ind., to further his research relating to the Rh factor in human blood. 
The ?2,200 fellowship will enable Dr. Price to continue his research in the isolation and identification of various compounds found in human blood. Pri­mary purpose of the experimentation is to determine whether any of these com­pounds are of potential value in the medical treatment of the Rh factor. 
The Notre Dame scientist already has isolated four compounds which might be of future value in treating the Rh fac­tor since he started his research project several years ago. Dr. Price"s research also could lead to the discovery of new compounds, principally of the fatty con­stituents of blood, which to date have not been isolated and identified. 
At the Laetare Medal presentation. From the left, J. Arthnr Haley, Mrs. George Strake, Rt. Rev. J. M. Kirwin, Rev. E. A. Holub, Most Rev. Wendelin J. Nold, Bishop of Galves­ton, Mr. and Mrs. Phelan, Father Hesbu^ and C. E. Broussard. 


Notre Dame Scores for 1950 - *51 
l ]I1  Notre  Won Dame » >» t* tt It it tt r>  FOOTBALL  4, Lost 4, Tied 1  14 North Carolina .. .14 Purdue 13 Tulane 7 Indiana 33 Michigan State .19 Navy 18 14 Iowa 7 Southern Calif...  7 ?,8 9 ?.o  36 10 7 14 9  CCC at Ypsilanti: Marquette 55, No­tre Dame 57, Michigan Normal 64. NCAA at East Lansing, Notre Dame 5th. TRACK Notre Dame 80 Bradley 34 23/s Marquette 56% Western Michigan 49 48 Mich. State Norm. 56 Central Collegiate at N. D. Marquette 1st, Drake 2d, Notre Dame 3rd.  e 13/2 Minnesote ..„..-.13% 12 Michigan SUte _15 TENNIS Won 5, Lost 6  Dame 5 Wisconsin ... 4 It 4 Northwestern 5 19 4 • Western Michigan 5 tt 2 Michigan 7 n 0 Michigan State : 9 tt 6 Marquette 3 tt 4 Pnrdne . 6  
Notre BASKETBALL Won 13, Lost 11  Dame 67 Franklin tt 72 tt 67 Wisconsin  44 46 61  Milwaukee Relays—second in mile relay. OUTDOORS Texas Eelays—^2d sprint medley—5th mile relay Purdue 77, Notre Dame 65, Northwestern 18.  n 9 Dnqnesne 0 n 5 Pittsburgh ... 4 19 7 Detroit ....:... 2 » 1 Iowa . 8 CCC—Notre Dame tied for 1st place.  
*f tt tt ft ft tt tt 11 11 11  . 82 60 83 56  76 55 47 78 52 44  Northwestern Iowa _ Indiana Butler St. Louis _ Loyola (Chgo)Xavler Kentucky   ... . 76 63 70 64 73 48 56  67 60 69  Drake Relays—No points awarded: Notre Dame 26 Missouri 105 63% Pittsburgh .46'/a Notre Dame 2nd place in closed CCC at Peoria. Notre Dame 88 Bradley 43 Notre Dame 3rd place in CCC at Mil­waukee. BASEBALL  Rally Headquarters Headquarters for five "away" games are being set up by alumni groups from North Carolina io Los Angeles. Alumni planning to attend the .games are asked to help the local committees in planning by sending early reserva­tions. Locations of. rallies and individ­uals handling reservations are:  
11  43  Michigan  State.. .  60  Notre Dame —  Ohio State  (Rain)  DETROIT GAME  
' It ti 11 It 11  75 82 54 77 61  Butler DePaul St. Louis DePaul  65 56 68 70 55  """" 1 3 11 5 4  Ohio State Iowa Iowa Indiana Indiana  0 0  10 6 5  Imperial Hotel, John Anhdt (same ad­dress). Wolverine Hotel, Frank H. Sweeney (same address).  
11  56  Michigan  State.. .  46  "  1  Michigan State .-... 9  PITTSBURGH  
n tt tt  53 72 N. Y. U 60 Pennsylvania FENCING  60 87 71  """ 5 105 4 13  Pittsburgh Pittsburgh Purdue Northwestern Illinois Normal  3 5 2 2  .... 4  Royal York Hotel, .Rpbert Fulton 3568. Negley Pittsburgh, Fa.  
Won 7, Lost 3  "  6  Illinois  Wesleyan 10  NAVY  
Notre Dame 13 Northwestern 14 tt 22 Case Institute ..... 5 It 16 Ohio State 11 11 11 16 11 18 Kentucky . 9 '. " 15 12 r* 15 Michigan State.. . 12 It 15 12 tt 15 ^?. 11 21 Cincinnati 6 NCAA Meet—Notre Dame placed 10th  """"""••""" 6 2 13 6 6 4 5 8 4 4  Michigan 13  Michigan Staate.... 3  Illinois 10  Illinois 20  Michigan 5  Northwestern 8  Great Lakes 2  Purdue 8  Wisconsin 7  Wisconsin (Rain)  Great Lakes 7  Western Michigan 11  Two rallies: Emerson Hotel, Baltimore Franklyn € . Hochrdter 1327 Pentwood Rd. Baltimore, Md. 1740 K Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. Panl C. Tully 3306 Camalier Lane Chevy Chase, Hd. NORTH CAROUNA  
CROSS COUNTRY (Low score wins)  "  5  Western MichiganGOLF  9  Washington Duke Hotel, Durham Jack Joyce  
Notre  Dame  29  Purdue  27  Won 3, Tied 2, Lost 4  Startex MiUs  
tt  32  Marquette  23  Notre Dame  8  Kentucky  10  Startex,  So. Carolina'.  
tt It  40 21  Wisconsin Iowa  _  19 34  ""  12 13'/a  Indiana Purdue  .:...  15  —13%  SOUTHERN CAUFORNIA  ^  
State  meet  at  Butler,:  Indiana  1st,  25  Detroit  2  .  Biltmore Hotel, Los Angeles  
Purdue 2nd, Notre Dame 3rd. Notre Dame 27 Loyola tt 24 Pittsburgh  3? 33  "" 21 13 18  Loyola (Chicago) Northwestern Wisconsin  9  17 9  Ben Alexander 5800 Lemp St. N. Hollywood, Calif.  
July-August,  1951  13  

of engineering. Upon the successful Irish Navy Cruises completion of the joint five-year course, the student will receive simultaneously 
Seventy members of the Naval ROTC the degree of Bachelor of Science in unit at the University sailed June 4 Engineering from Notre Dame and the from Norfolk, Va., on a two-month Eu­Bachelor of Arts degree from St. 

ropean training cruise. 
Thomas. The contingent of- future naval offi­
The new cooperative program of cers joined representatives of fourteen studies offered by St. Thomas and Notre other Naval ROTC units and midship­Dame is believed to be the first venture men from the United States Naval of such cooperative programs between Academy on the summer cruise. 

two Catholic educational institutions. 
The trainees were in Norway, Portu­The program will be offered in addition gal, Scotland, Denmark, France, the to regular pre-engineering courses al­Netherlands, Sweden and Cuba. After ready offered by St. Thomas and engi­leaving Europe, their thirteen naval neering courses already offered by Notre ships met July 2nd off Lisbon and pro­Dame. ceeded to the Caribbean for gunnery exercises before visiting Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, on July 21st. 
St. Thomas, ND Cooperate 

A cooperative liberal arts and engi­neering program of studies, believed to be unique in Catholic education, ^vill be effected in the 1951-52 schoolyear by Notre Dame and the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. 
The new joint program was an­nounced simultaneously by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, President of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, President of St. Thomas. 
Under the new program of studies a student may b^ n his college educa­tion at St. Thomas, and after three years of liberal arts study transfer to the CoU^e of Engineering at Notre Dame for his final two years of spe­PROF. FRANCIS W. KERVICK cialized training in his chosen branch 

Metals Fellowship to ND 

A fellowship in metallurgy at the University of Notre Dame has been renewed for the fourth consecutive year by the Union Carbide and Car­bon Corporation of New York City, according to word received at Notre Dame from the corporation. 
The $2,500 Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation Fellowships for 1951-53 will be held by S. C. Das Gupta, of Calcutta, India, a graduate student in the Department of Metail­lurgy at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Das Gupta's research project is concerned with the hardening qual­ities of steel. Specifically, the Notre Dame graduate student's experimen­tations consist of research with a microconstituent called "Martensite," which is responsible for the harden­ing of steel. 
Little is known scientifically re­garding how "Martensite" forms on steel, and Mr. Das Gupta's project is designed to spur the investigation of the formation of "Martensite" at va­rious temperatures. The experiments will be performed with steel at tem­peratures ranging from room tem­fierature to 321 degrees below zero. 

Father Ward Speaker 

Father Leo R. Ward, C.S.C., of the Philosophy Department will deliver the Commencement Address at the summer graduation exercises August 10 at the University. 
One hundred and seventy-five degrees will be conferred in ceremonies at the Drill Hall at 8 p. m. Father Cornelius Laskowski, C.S.C., will preach the Bac­calaureate Sermon at the traditional solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
SECRETARIES, PLEASE NOTE 

The September-October issue- of the Alunmus will be heav^^th pi&-­-tnres and news-of- the Summer ac­tivities of Alumni Clubs and Classes. 
To assure time for composition and makeup, the editois are asking that all Class and Club notes and pictures reach the Alumni Office by-Augnst 23. 
Deadline notices will be sent, but tlie editors wished to include this eztm reminder that we get out a magaaine only through the help and coiqieratioa of Club and Class .of­

Immaculate Conceptioa Church, East, Chicago, Ind., which Mr. Kervick designed. Mr. ficers. Kervidi retired last year after 42 years in the Architecture Department. 
Dcceibber 9, 1951 (Sunday)—ConHuaioa Break­fast, Old St. Blary's Chu^d^ 9 turn. January 3, 1952 (Saturday)—Bal Noel—Drake Hotel, 7 pja. 
cmm 

BuflFalo 
Universal Notre Dame Night was commemorated in Buffalo this year on May 7th by the innovation of a Buffet Dinner at Buffalo's Sheraton Hotel. The occasion highlighted by a very distinguished speaker, Buhop Kt'uz, who has recently returned to the States from his Diocese in China and spoke very interestingly concerning customs and problems peculiar to his people. His talk was most amusing as well as educational. Buffalo's Bishop O'Hara, past President of the University, attended the Night. 
On June 16th, the Clubs Simmicr Stag Outing was held at Walker's Grove, a picnic spot a few-miles from the City. The Saturday afternoon weath­er was the best that could be had, muscles were limbered up in many vigorous athletic tilts, the food was delicious and many happy memories of another successful Club activity were created. 
At present, plans are undenvay for a Summer Golf - Outing at the South Shore Country Club. This affair which consistently attracts great num­ber! of Club members for a round of the course, dinner and a pleasant evening afterwards, will be chairmancd by Chuck Nowak. 
The Club's monthly meetings with President Maury Quina presiding have been running according to schedule at the Sheraton Hotel on the third Monday of each month. Each Thursday Club members have been gathering at the liifayette 

. Hotel for an informal luncheon. However, for the Summer, these Chib functions will be suspended. 

Boston 
•The new officers are as follows, in accordance with nomination and election on Universal Notre Dame night: 
Joha Brcsnahan, *45 President Bernard M^vii *37, Vice-President Tbonas Atkimoa, '38, Secretary Ridbanl Hcrliliy, '48, Treasurer. Two outstanding events featured the Spring 

activities of the Notre Dame Club of Boston. On March 6, the Annual Football Night was held at the University Club, and Notre Dame men who are active coaches in the New England area were honored. Appropriately, our guest speakers were Adam Walsh, Football Coach at Bowdoiq College, and Jim Harris, Assistant Coach with Eddie Anderscm at Holy Cross. Their talks were thoroughly interesting and en­
tertaining. Highlights of 1950 games were shown at the close of the banquet. . Pat Tofuri, in charge of arrangements, did an unusually fine job. 
It was on this same evening that the Nomi­nating Committee, consuting of Mike Manzo, Joe Clancy, Pat Tofuri, Joha Moran, Jack Duffey, J<jia Heibert and Joe GartlantI, pre­sented to the club a slate of candidates who were elected to club offices: Our new president, John Bresnihan; vice-president, Bcnue Mcgia; secretary. To n Atkinsoa; treasurer, Dick Heriihy. 
New directors arc Jadt Nye Duffey, the retir­ing president, and Didc Lamney, who will serve from 1951 through 1954. Retiring vice-president ir: Pat Tofuri, retiring 'secretary Chuck I^tterson, and retiring treasurer, John Herbert. 
Continuing as directors of the ckib are Hugh Bluae and Jim Dooley (1950-52), and Cummings 
M. Gtaxdino and Joha Moraa (1930-53). 

Our observation of Universal Notre Dame Night was held on Tuesday, April 3, at the Charlestown Naval Officers Club. A large group of Notre Dame ladies and gentlemen w*att:hed Jade Sanaders receive the Man of the Vear Award, met Joha Cackley, Staff Project Director of UND Foundation and his charming wife, w*ho. had come from the campus to be with us. and at the close of the evening approved the installa­tioa <^ the new dub oflficers. 
Juty-August, 1951 
John Moran was chairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night committee again this year and surpassed his 1950 performance in this ca­pacity. So important to the success of the club has John been for a number of years that he was officially recognized and presented with a special gift. 

The choice of Jack Saunders as Man of the Year was well received. He was cited particular­ly for his loyalty to the teachings of the Univer­sity during an outstanding business and civic career, and for his special attention to the ac­tivities of the Boston Club and of the University in this area. A native New Englander, bom in Lowell, Mass., 44 years ago, Saunders graduated from ND in '31 as President of the Senior Class. Since 1947 he has been Notre Dame Foundarion Governor for the State of Massachusetts. 
He is President and Treasurer of Handscltu­macher & Co., Inc., Boston wholesale meat firm, and he is the owner of Saunders Importing Com­pany of Boston. As a charter member of the Massachusetts Committee for Catholics, Protes­tants and Jews, he has contributed substantially to the excellent work which this group of Bos­ton's leading citizens has done in the interest of racial and religious understanding. 
During World War II he attained the rank of Lieutenant Commander, USNR, in the Naval Air Ferry Command; he is a member of the Navy League, the Naval Order, Military Order of World War II, and the American Legion. 


Central Illinois 

In an unguarded moment our good friend and loyal member "Commodore Zcke" Wortlwi^ctaa offered the facilities of the Springfield Yacht Club for our meeting June 5th. Our worthy President John Lynaugfa could look in for only a moment because he had to attend a big-time banquet with his boss Lt. Governor (of Illinois) Shenrood Dixoa. Since the Veep Tom Vicars was out sleuthing for the collector of Internal Revenue, secretary Jerry McGlonc called the meeting to order. 
We began by lamenting the loss of the club's old sparkplug Lando Howard. He has transfercd the scene of his actirittes to ^lurphysboro, Illinois, the hunting and Hshing country. 
Chuck Corcoran has undertaken to arrange for the showing of the Highlights at our next meeting, July 19. Clare Hafd will run the projection machine. 
The first Monday of every month we have an informal luncheon meeting at the K. C.'s. The heaviest eaters at these meetings are: MQte Bo n and Jim Costa (our Treasurer!) 
Paul Grant-of Mattoon and Anthony Jackaoo of Assumption \isit us occasionally. We certianly would like to see more of some of the other out of towners like Paul Biebcl, H. F. Bandy, Harry Argns and the Godfreys. 
The election of new officers will be held, at our next meeting. 

Chicago 
The latest two regular meetings of the execu­tive board of the Chicago dub point up. the fact that there is a big year of activity ahead, and that the exec members are working hard to make it an enjoyable season for the rest of the dub . . . even though some of the execs will be so bushed getting these affairs organned that they'll hardly cnjtiy them! 
Here's the calendar of events scheduled for 1951-1952: 
July 16 (Monday]—Golf Outing, Ehohurst Country Club. 
September 5, 1951 (Wednesday)—Alumni recep­tion for freshman students and fathers. Lake Shore Club, 8 p.m. 
' October 11, 1951 (Thursday)—Football Smoker, Knickerbocker Hotel, 7 p.m. 
January 30, 1952 (WedMsday)—Aai^ual Meet­ing. Merchants aad. SAannfactitren dab , 6 pJM> April 19, 1952 (Saturday)—Universal Notre Dame Ni^t, Drake, 7 p.ni. 
—-and we hope to'sec all <d you at all of .'ca! 
The Blay BMetins of the executive board, of 

the Chio^pi. dub was held oa the 10th. ^-"—••* 
as Lou BacUey fauad the pressure of his duties 
too much to allow him to serve, the board ic­
gretfuUy accepted his resignation aad appotated 
Bin' Wley to serve in his stead. 
Gil SeaMaa reported that letters were ready to go out aa the annual dues coUectioa. 
Joba McGoorty, Jr., %tras naaied chairmaa of a committee to examine the by-laws with a view to unprovtng them. 
The alumni receptioa for freshinea, whidi will be chairmanaed by John Cbyle, is aa event of considerable importaace for the dub, as aa ice­breaker for the ingoing freshmen, aad aa latro­duction of the dub and its members to the fathers of these young students. 
I'm sorry we have a deadliar too early to give details of the annual Gold Ontiag; Daa -Gibfas is chairmaa of the event, beiag bdd July 16, aad I kaow Dan will see that it is the ucual memorable affair. 
Daa Ghka reported that Bob Edcr, Jsdc Laqr, Bca Biaowski and Jade Woods will assist him on the day of the Golf Outing. 
For noa-golfers the adaiissioa was set at | S for the dinner, ^ for those golfing aad eatiay. January and Juae graduates of ND will be wel­comed into the dub duriiv the outiag. 
That's an for aow, fellow dubbers. It loofa like a big year ahead—let's all get ia die act. If you don't like the way thiogs are beiag TUB, come oa out aayway aad tell m about it—the dub can always use constructive criticism aad willing workers. We aced help .. . we aeed YOU! 
Chottaneogo 
Universal Notre Dame night was held Tuesday, April 3rd at the Chattanooga Golf aad Cottatry Clid>. It was attended by all alumni, parents ct students aad all who made the Tnlaae trip last year. As a result we had thirty-five ia attendaace. 
President Tom Owea qioke briefly oa the var­ious scholastic developmeats at Notre Dame. Tbe feature talk of the evcoing was presented by Father Waher BaA'who spoke on Catholic educatioa. 
The program, arraaged by Fred Eicbon, Ptlif y and Bin Casey, was temunated by the showiag ci the campus film and the Hii^il^ts. 
Joba Tcrrdl M. C'd the evening. 
• 

Cincinnati CInb 
The second annual Easter Party was held again this year at the University Club <»• ISioAy Saturday. This party, which b a strictly social affair for the purpose of getting together with feUow Notre Dame mea and their wives m Cincinnati, again produced a very large "tnra­out,*' and was enjoyed completely by evcryoae. . 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night cekbratioa took place at the Cincinnati Club aad was highlighted by Father Joba Maipby, Vice-P)resi­dent ia Charge of Public Relatioos. Father Murphy's address coocemed itself with the func­tions of the University and a traciag of its history throu^ great times cf national and ia­temational stress during whidi times the Uni­versity grew stronger and, contributed anadi to the welfare of the United States aad of 'the world. IQ additioo. Father Murphy gave us a first-hand report on the Uatversity huikfiag program aad the other activities aad chaagcs now taking place oa campus. It was a fiae talk and we are aU indebted to Father Mnzphy ­for being with us. 
The new <(^Bcers for the year were elected oa Universal Notre Dame Nqiht aad they are: Howard Rahaa, Pftsideat; WM Ckafe, Viee-Pkes>. dcat; Jiai Intfce, Secretary; aad Jadt Favict, 
IS 

Treasurer. The Board of Trustees consists of Boll Leonard, John Cottinghom and Bob Burke. Did: Scallan, of MacGrcgor-Goldsmith fame, re­ceived the. Man of the Year Award from out­going President Bob Burke. 
At our May meeting the name of the winner of the Cincinnati Club's four-year scliolarship to the University was announced. He is Robert B. Fleming of Purccll High School in Cincinnati. We feel that Bob will be a fitting addition to the student body, and our Scholarship Commit­tee composed of AI Castellini and Walt Nienaber (alumni members) and the Honorable Edward 
T. Dixon and Mr. Louis Richtcr (non-alumni members) dcser\-cs a great deal of commenda­tion for its selection and for the work ncccssarj* to sucli a choice. 
Our summer picnic was held on June 21 at the Dcvou Countr>* Club in Park Hills, Ky. Bob BiscbofT capably handled the party whicli featured a Blind Bogey Golf Tournament. Pos­sibly some of the worst golfers in the historv' of the game suc/-«^cd in winning prizes in this even:. All in all, it was a fine picnic and well up to Bob's reputation as a fine party chairman. 
Cleveland 
For the fourth consecutive year the Xotre Dame Club of Cleveland has awarded a casli prize of $50 to the most dcser\-ing Cleveland student enrolled at the University. Tliis years recipient is Bernard J. Endres, a Junior in the College of Science majoring in pre-mcd, and president of the Cleveland geographical club on Campus. He is the son of Mr. and ^^rs. Harold 
F. Endres, 3495 Edison Road, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
Tlie purpose of this prize is: 1, To assist a descr\*ing student at the Uni­versity; 2, To stimulate and promote the Cleveland Club on campus; 
3.
 To foster relations between the students and the Alumni Secretary* at the University; 

4.
 To encourage contacts and friendly inter­ests between the Cleveland students and the Cleveland alumni. 


Tlianks to Norb Raschcr, Chaiimnn. and Chuck Rohr for another excellent Father and Son picnic at Chuck's "R" farm, on June 23rd. 
Highlights of the day: Rosar^' at the grotto led by Fr. Louis Thornton, Registrar of the Univer­sity . . . East Sidcrs whipping the West Siders 14 to 6 . . . Jack Elder's spectacular ball playing . . . 150 fathers and sons enjoying the supper . . . Frank Gaul taking the jumps on a spirited draft hor^e . . . movie magnates, Chuck Rohr and Bob DoH'd, snapping pictures. 
Another Notre Dame-St. Mar>''s, Cleveland­Pittsbui^h romance . . . Vln DcCrane-FIo Friday nuptials in Pittsburgh, July 7th . . . Notre Darners, Al DeCrane, best man. Bob Lally, Fred Ncagcle, Pete Friday, Arts Bmggeman, and Dick Maicr, ushers. . . . 
Berne Endres reports the Studrnt Organization's formal at the Hotel Cleveland to be another suc­cess 
Coming events: Annual golf party at the Mana­kiki Country Club's difficult course, July 26th . . . John Reidy, Chairman . . . Prizes for pros and dubbers alike . . . deluxe dinner . . . Moose Krause to give golfing instructions. . . . August I9th, family picnic at Gilmour Academy. 
Columbus 
A part>- was held in honor of Jay Clinc at Hoff­man's Gardens in Columbus when the Notre Dame baseball team came here to play Ohio State. Tlie members of the team who could attend were also guests of honor. 
Election of officers look place recently and were 
elected as follows: President: Joseph E. Ryan, '30 Vice-Pres.: Raymond Eidienlaub, Jr., '42 Secretary-: E. Francis Biggcrt, '50 Treasurer: Alfred Fredericks, '41 Trustees elected to one and two year terms arc Ed­
ward A. Moriarty, '29, and Dr. James J. Hughes, '31, respectively. 
16 
Matthew N. Smith, '88, H:awathaland Club's Man of the Year for 1950, con­gratulating John A. Lemmer (center) on Lemmer^s similar 1951 award. Right is Dr. Donald H. Boyce. Mr. Smith, Michi­gan's oldest active bank president died sev­eral weeks after the picture was taken. 
The club sponsored a square dance at Cubbage Corners on June 9. The main attraction of the evening was the complete explanation and demon­stration of the various square dances. The Colum­bus alunrni an- new enthusiastic advocates ol -iunic dancing—and they know how to **Anemande left" too. 
Harr>- P. Ncstcr was named Man of the Vear Ly the Notre Dame Club of Coluinlius and was pre­sented a scroll at ihis parly. Han->% class cf IWO. was chosen for his outstanding alumni work of this and past years. 
Dallas 
An informal summer p.irty is bein'» planm-d lor "lufa members. Chairman for the affair is John A. Schrocder, '42. 
Next is the event that the whole Texas state is looking for^v•ard ta: NOTRE DAME vs. SMU in Soutit Bend. Walter L. Ffcming, '40, is in charge of arrangements for the four day trip wlijch may he combined with the Houston and San Anlunio Clubs. 
Charles B. I^hr, '42, h chairman of the annual Christmas Dance, plans for which will be started after the football season. 
It was decided by the Club to have a Communion Breakfast quarterly during the year to begin in September at a private Chapel witli breakfast fol­lowing. Dr. Lloyd C. Bellamy, *32, is in charge of this important event. 
July started the monthly lunclieons to be held tlic hrst Tuesday of each month. The purpose of these lunclieons is to bring the members of the club together more often and to bring busi­ness associates together to learn of the Notre Dame spirit in Dallas. In charge of these lunch-cons (to be held at downtown hotels) is Ir^in 
L. Goldman, '36. . 
Dayton 
A smoker will be held July 10 in Dayton. Proposed activities are the football raffles and the special train to the ND-SMU game. A dinner meeting was held in June to which the present Notre Dame students from Dayton came as guests of the Club. 
Georgia 
On May 28, the Club held its monthly luncheon meeting at the Owl Room of the Hotel Ansley. Tlic date was moved so that Ed .Abrams, '50, might attend. Ed left that 
c\-ening to attend Officers Training School at Newport, Rhode Island. 
June 19, Mr. AI Abrams, '21 (not '08 as re­ported in the last issue), fresh from his 30th year reunion again entertained the^ entire club .. . an all day affair with golf, dinner, and a gala evening at the beautiful Standard Club in Atlanta. We were all pleased to have with us Harry Wriglit, '43. Harry is now assistant foot­ball coach at the University of Georgia, and brought us well up to date on recent football happenings throughout the country. Bill BccJilcy, '34, President, did an excellent job as toast­master, and awarded the golfing honors of the day to Gil Kirwao who parred the course. 
This, of course, was the biggest affair the Club has e%'er had. and we were quite proud of the enthusiastic turnout and the way the Club has been progressing along. At present prelim­inary plans are underway for an excursion train to the Notre Dame-North Carolina game in Chapel Hill. 
Detroit 
Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C., University vice-president in charge of PubHc relations, and Athletic Director Moose Krause were gu^ts at the club's annual golf outing, held this year at Svlvan Green Golf Club. 
Moose, who has been steadily improving his game under the expert instruction of John Jordan, broke 80 for the course. 
For the non-golfers there was swimming, and there was a relaxing day and delicious dinner for everyone. 
The dub is building up pressure—or resisting it —depending which committee the speak'ng mem­ber is on, for the U. of Detroit game Friday night, Oct. 5. With a National Convention of the Holy Name Society in the same week, it miglit be z rough few days for the unprepared. 
Accordingly, Club President Jim Motschall has arranged not one but nV O headquarters for ral­lies, either before or after the game. John Bums promised to run the listings in another story in the magazine this issue, but for the readers of this department, we'd like to name the hotels again. 
Both arc managed by Notre Damcrs, and will have accommodations for the game. 
Number I is the Hotel Imperial, 26 Peterboro. Phone TEmple 2-7000—John Anhut. Number 2 is the Hotel Wolverine. Phone WO 3-9000—Frank Sweeney. After the Golf Party, our ma'or 1931 activ­
ities are: 
September: Football Luncheon. October: U. of Detroit and Purdue games. November: Iowa game. December: Universal Communion Breakfast. FOR 1952: Februarj-: Annual Meeting, Manresa Retreat. April: Universal Notre Dame Night. Alumni visiting Detroit arc ahvays welcome at 
any of these functions and are invited to get in touch with either President Jim Motschall or Sec­retary Mai Knaus for particulars. 
Call Jim at TUxedo 2-«37 or Mai at UNiver­sity 2-0780. 
If it's a business call the respective numbers are: WA 1-6880 and TR 5-1673. 
Gold Circle Club 
Herewith a list of the members of the Notre Dame Gold Circle Club, which is the tentative name adopted by tlie Club in this area of Northwestern Pcnns}Ivania and Southwestern New York. 
The attached list covers not only those who were present at bur first meeting, but also those names in the area suggested as possible members. The asterisk indicates the names of those present. 
•John
 Ritzzanhaler, 1013 W. Henley, Olean, 

N.
 Y. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
•Nidiolas Ash, 318 N. Srd St., Olean, N. Y. ^Roland Martel, 117 W. 4th St., Emporium, 

Pa. ^George F. Fitzgerald. 719 Main St., Olean, 
N. Y. ^Joseph W. Fitzpatrick, 10 W. Washington 
St., Ellicottvillc, N. Y. *Jolin L. Worden, 143 W. Barry St., Olean, 
N. Y. *John V. Smith, Linwood Apts. No. 4, Olcna, 
N. Y. *Gcra]d J. Fitzpatrick, Monroe St., Ellicott* 
villc. New York. "Joseph Bach, 220/2 W. Hth St., Olcan, N. Y. *John Maloney, R.F.D. 1, Allegany, N. Y.. 
Secretary of Club. "Russell Jandoli, 301 N. Ist St., Olcan, N. Y. 
Bob Duffey, Portville, N. Y. Joseph Duffey, Portville, N. Y. "Robert L. Wasson, Box 49, Portville, N. Y. 

Robert Flint, Atty., Coudersport, Pa. Leonard McGuire, c/o Sylvania Elec. Products, Emporium, Pa. ^VUliam Graham, c/o Sylvania Elec. Products, Emporium, Pa. Patrick Sackinger, cfo Sylvania Elec. Products, Emporium, Pa. Robert Pfuntncr, Bolivar, N. Y. Jack 0*Rourke, Salamanca, N. Y. (Army). Bud Orr, Emporium, Pa. (student). Frank Magnella, 191 Congress St., Bradford, Pa. Richard Fitzgerald—George Fitzgerald, Sala­manca, N. Y. Norhcrt Moore, Bolivar, N. Y. (now em­ployed in California). 
• Nunzio Marino, Bradford, Pa. 
Phil Colella, c/o Blumcnthars Sport Shop, Olean, N. Y. 
The Golden Circle Club of Notre Dame came into existence on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 2nd this year. 
Genial Joe Bach, '25 and current head coach of football at St. Bonaventue University, is the pres­ident for the next year. John Maloney, Ml and St. Bonavcnturc faculty member, is sccretar\-­trcasurcr. 
Twenty-five attended the organizational meeting. a dinner afTair which included wives. .A picnic get-together at the summer home of George Fitz­gerald, was scheduled for Wednesday, June 6. Be­sides Maloney and Bach, prime movers in the for­mation of the club—believed to be the first of its kind for Notre Dame men in southwestern New York and northwestern Pennsylvania — were Russ Jandoli, '40, and John Wordcn, '28, St. Bonavcnturc faculty members; Jim McVay, '42. and his brother Bill, '39, of Bradford, Pa., and George Fitzgerald, *25, of Olean. 
Currently, a drive . for members is underway. Graduates, present-day and former students within a 60-miIe radius of the Olcan-Bradford area are urged to contact Secretary- Maloney, c/o St. Bona­vcnturc University, St. Bonavcnturc, N. Y. 
Grand Rapids 
Officers were elected and the man-of-the-year was named at the 2Sth annual obsen,-ancc of Notre Dame night by the Grand Rapids and Western Michigan Notre Dame club in the Morton House. Dr. Daniel C. O'Grady, professor of philosophy at Notre Dame, addressed 60 alumni and friends here on morality of thinking and logic of conduct. 
The selection .as*'"man-of-thc-year in their group is Leo J. Linck, a Muskegon law>*cr, named for outstanding club activities. 
Officers elected are: President, George A. Jacko­boicc; vice president, Edward G. McDermott; sec­retary, Joseph E. Moore, and treasurer, Joseph F. Kelly, all of Grand Rapids. 
**Man as a rational animal evidences his intel­lect through axioms and mediums and rationalizes by acting according to hts writings or sayings," Dr. O'Grady told the gathering. *'To think right is to live right. Ethics is the basis of social sci­ences and the end or goal of an individual's life is his prime moral principle." 

John A. KcUcy, '25, cfaccks tfae spcUing. of his Man of the Year Scroll from the Mich­igan City Club. Mr, KcUey has spent his literate life insisting his name Is spelled with the extra "e." 
Houston 

Notre Dame CJub of Houston had a late May meeting at which the following were elected to office: 
President:Eugene F. Malloy, '36. 
Vice-Pres.: James P. Simon, '47. 
Secretary: Thomas L. Schexnayder, *44. 
Treasurer: Thomas G. McHale, '23. 
• 

Hiowotholand (Mich.) 
From Hcnr>' Lauerman: In tlie last few years' elections in the c!ub we've chosen as secretary men whose outside duties un­fortunately keep them from getting much informa­tion into the ALUMNUS. So this term wc picked Fr. Howard Drolet of Negaunee, but he's as busy as anyone else up here. So here is a roundup on our Universal Xotre Dame Niglit and club elections: Represented at the meeting were the cities of Xcgaunce, Escanaba, Gladstone and Menominee in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and Marinette, Wis. It was a rercsentativc Xotrc Dame meeting covering all the subjects so cherished by Notre Dame alumni, the high point of which was the presentation of the ^otre Dame Afan of the Year Award to Superintendent of Schools John A. Lemmer, '18. 
The presentation was made by Matthew Smith, then the active president of the Escanaba Na­tional Bank. (Mr. Smith died since the presenta­tion, and his death notice carried in the 50-Ycar Club Notes—Ed.) Mr. Smith was recipient of the award last year. 
Officers elected were: 
Joe Lauerman, Marinette, President. 
Dr. Donald Boy'ce, Escanaba, vice-president. 
Fr. Howard DroIct, Negaunce, secretary. 
Kansas City 
Dr. Hugh Bums brought his liniment, ankle wraps, sprain ointment and Chautauqua Camp Show to Kansas City on June 22 and u-as so well Received that the alumn! of this area would like to sec him transfer his swirling-water bath to the Municipal Auditorium permanently. 
Hugh Bums, Trainer of the ND football team. Catholic Community Service of the USO, and former President of the Athletic Trainers' Association, arrived in town, set up headquarters and proceeded to address the local alumni on the basic subjects of bkickiag, tacklinf and the 

•merits oC his Miracle Elixir (91.50). . A'rgroup of about 100 alnmai and friends of Notre Dame saw the film, ''Highlights of the 1950 Football Season" and enjoyed Ht^' s tun­ning ccHnmentary on it. Guests at the meetii^ included Ray Evaas, former Ail-American frun 
Kansas University, Kormaa Gordoa, Sfr. George Higgiu (recently of Indianapolis), Vicc-Prcs* idenc in Charge of Sales for radio sta­tion KMBC. Mr. Ifiggins was acciMnpanied by his two sons, George^ Jr., a Junior at the XJw­versity and Jcny, who is studying for the priest­hofxl a: Holy Cross Seminary. 
Rosa FamU was on hand to photograph per­sonalities, among them Joe Stewart, recipient of the local club's "Man of the Year" Award. Aiding FarreU in the i^ration of his mobile studio were Bob Mcmdcr, Chack FriicU and Don Owens. Not active in the posing of the subjects but cotttributittg invaluable technical ad­\-ice were Jim Kopp and Bob Oweu. 
In the brisk social period preceding the show­ing of the film, Barney Quirk, Dave Crooks, £d and Tom lleardoa and Fraak Toyne were almost unanimous in their agreement that the campus had seen few defensive cfuarteibacks like Waliy Fromhart. Doctors D. M. Nigra, Graham Owens and Jim Downey concurred in this pre­liminary decision but decided to withhold final diagnosis until they had examined the X-ray negatives of all candidates concerned. 
Eddie O'Cowmr represented the 1009^ ND O'Connor family and Don Sdierer u-as available for consultation on engineering projects. Dick Ptezdicl, the new Treasurer, and President Ben Oakes tabulated the receipts and pronounced the meeting a success. 
The Club plans a raffle on chances for. an all-expense trip to the Southern Methodist game and a Christmas dance at one of the local clubs. Also under discussion is a weekly luncheon, day and place to be announced in this column for the benefit of any travellers who may pass through here (Bring your umbrellas, boys; this roof is REALLY leaking!) and long for an op­portunity to pre-relish any of those long touch­down runs we're going to see this fall. (Don't raise your eyebrows; Bums promised!). 
The Club wants to thank Hi ^ Bums :^ain for making his summer visit one of the most successful gatherings of the year. It is hoped that he can make the trip an annual affair. To make our invitation practical as w^cll as polite, we offer to take over the midwcstem distributor­ship of Dr. Bums' Magic Elixir and run the Hadacol representative all the way back to Lou­isiana (59!:, of course). 

Kentucky 

At the last monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky many items were dis­cussed that wc thought would be of interest for publication in the Alumnus. 
First and foremost is the Essay Contest being sponsored by the Club between St. Xavier and Fl^et, the two local Catholic high schools. The entire program was suggested by our First Vice-President, Joe Dooaldsoo, and through his tire­less efforts will inevitably be a contribution to the Catholic youth of this city. Announcement of winners will be forwarded at a later date. 
Jim Warren, Treasurer, has been made chair­man for the football trii» thu fall. Otto Mileti is the chairman for the annual summer outing. 
Hie Club's annual retreat will be held May 18, 19 and 20 at the Trappist Afonastery of Gethsemani, a short distance from Bardstown, Kentucky. Approximately 30 men will participate. 
Memphis 
Wc were all saddened he^e by the recent death of Michael J. McGonnack, member of the 50­Year Chib of Notre Dame and father of another Notre Dame graduate, Doondl McGonnack. 
The Club's annual business meeting is set for July 17 and John LajacA will be oa hand to talk and show some films. Bob Buzan is now in the Sen-ice at Langley Field, Texas, and Noc­man Brown, Jr., is in OCS, Nct%-port, Rhode Island. Recently returned from the Ser\ice are Eagene Podesta, President and Joe Signai^, Vice-President. Bamer Pcdlcs, our Treasurer, is now back in the 5cr\'ice. 

Wc plan on having the annual Notre Dame picnic later on in the summer. 
On July 17 ik^ Memphis Alumni Club elected the following new officers: President, I.amon Kdley, Dennon Bldg., Memohis Virc-Prcsid-nt. Jim Tyrell; Secretary, Daniel D. Canale; Treas­urer, Patrick Biuke. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
The Mid-Hudson Vallej- Notre Dame Club held their annual picnic on June 24, at the Cardinal Farley Military Academy at Rhinecliff, 
N. Y. The weather conditions were ideal-dear and hot—but the committee members were on edge as the weather had been ver>- unpre­dictable during the previous week. However, the luck of the Irish held out to say nothing of a few prayers that had been said by all of the members. 
It was really an afternoon filled vvith pleasure and excitement. At the last report we had no major casualties but some members did spend a sleepless night due to sunburn and aching muscles—what else could a holiday athlete really expect? 
The wives really put on a show for us at the dinner table and it made one's mouth v%-atcr just to look at the spread. There were about thirty-five in attendance made up of twcnt>"-fivc adults and ten children. I must mention the fact that Bob Hugh unvxiled his tiny beagle hound "Molly" v\-ho served as our mascot for the day. 
Those in attendance were the Henr>- Fishers, Robcr: Decgant, Frank Sanftlippos, John Davises, Lcsi McCambridgcs, Joseph Mahars, Robert Hn^ , Antiiony Buoaos, John Kuhns, Dick Mc­Cabe and Joe McCabe and guest, and John C. Flanagan. 
The male members engaged in an alleged game of Softball that lasted much too long for miser­able old bodies. After food and refreshments had vanished, . the party di^anded. All in all, it had been a grand day—it was our second such picnic; but as the club grows, so do the picnics. 
Picnic sidelights: John **CadiUac" Kuhn had a big smile on his face due to the recent failure of the collegiate regatta at Marietta, Ohio. John is a wheel on the committee to bring the regatta back to Poughkcepsie, K. V. 
Bob Hugh and J<An Davis missed the road markers on the highway and had a Cook's tour of Dutchess county. 
Len McCambridgc had to shove off early to get back to his duties at St. Francis Hospital. Henry Fisher and Dick McCabe gave a demon­stration (?) in the art of sivimming and fancy diving. 
Big Joe Mahar managed to get the longest hit of the day. A foul ball off his bat dropped into the lake and floated downstream about half a mile which is a good distance to get on any ball. For that clout, Joe was awarded a broken bat, an annual award given by the club members. 
Joe McCabe spent most of the afternoon keeping his "eye" on that svieet young guest of his for which I do not blame him in the least. 
Bob Decgaa picked up a beauty of a sunburn playing Softball and at the end of the day looked like a v*-ell done lobster. For acquiring the best bum. Bob was awarded the jar of Noxcma as first prize. 
Tony Buono, now a big real estate man, v%-as using an illegal spinner on the mound so that no one managed, to get a decent hit off him. 
Andy Muri^y could not make the picnic as he v%'as recently elected Commander of the Kingston American Legion Post No. 150, and his duties called him cisevthere. 

Michigon Cify 
The Club's fourth anmial Irish Greens Party at Long Beach Country Club July 19 vvas the largest and best attended of any. Joe Boland, '27, was emcee for the awarding of prizes. 
Three hundred and twenty-three played golf, including Father Holdcrith, University Golf Coach, Father Frank Cavanau^, AB Dean, Head Football Coach Frank Leahy, Athletic Di­rector Moose Krausc, Basketball Coach John Jordan, Athletics Business Manager Herb Jones, Sports Publicist Charlie Callahan, Freshman Football Coach Benny Sheridan. 
Attending from the University but sitting out from the golf were Alumni Secretary* Jim Arm­strong, Public Information Director Ray Donovan, Baseball Coach Clarence E. Kline, '*Nappy" Na­politano. Bob Cahill, Rev. John H. Murphy, C S.C., Vice-President in charge of Public Relations. 
Unique prize av%*ard of the evening went to Charlie Callahan. He won a football. 
Our celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night was a dinner-dance at the Glasshouse Restaurant on U.S. 20. The tv*o guest speakers were Rev. Louis Thornton, C.S.C., Registrar of the University and Harvey G. Foster, head of the F.6.I. in Indianapolis. It vt-as a most enjoyable evening. 
President Walter Ilnun awarded the "Man of the Year" scroll to John A. KeUey. 
General Chairmen were Cy Vojak and Hugh Bums, who presided at the steak tables after th* golf was finished. There was one unprogrammed event—the presentation to Father Murphy of a candle-lit birthday cake. 
Nebraska 
The annual election of officers followed a Com­munion breakfast on Sunday, May 13, In Omaha. The following men were elected: 
President: Robert D. Welsh, '26 
Secy.-Treas.: Herbert M. Sampson, Jr., '50 
Vice-Pres.: Ben H. Patterson, '50 
A later meeting in June resulted with plans for a stag-barbecue to honor Nebraska's Notre Dame Man of the Year. This takes place in July, after press date. 
New Jersey 
At the annual business meeting and elections held June 18 at the Military Park Hotel, New­ark, the following members of the New Jersey Clidi were elected to office for a period of one year: 
President: FUHp J. Hdnle, '35 
\^ce-Pres.: Leo J. Costello, '48 
Secretary: Nicholas J. Villarosa, '43 
Treasurer: Kkhard J. Dericks, '31 
The Board of Directors now consists of Wil­liam J. Small, '40, Henry P. Borda, '40, J. Nor­bcrt Gcbon, '26, John R. Blanda, '31, Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, '26, and John Pindar, '40. 
The outgoing President, Joe Abbott, v*-as given a warm vote of thanks for his outstanding job a", leader of the club during his term, June '50 to '51. 
Northern Colifornio 
We had the Universal Notre Dame Night do­ings at the Terrace Room of the Aleicander Hamilton Hotel in San Francisco. There were about 65 members and friends in attendance, and Father James DoU, C.S.C., ~ the chib chaplain, gave the principal address. He spoke on the entire Science program at ND with particular emphasis on LOBUND. 
Members came from such faraway points as Sacramento (90 miles) and Cupertino (45 miles). It was one of the best club events to be held in recent yeanl The entire membership thou^t 
that Father Doll did a wonderful job and the older alumnae In particular were brought up to date on the Notre Dame of today. 
• 

Panl Cmluag was honored as the Notre Dame man of the year in the Bay Area. Paul has been an outstanding Catholic layman for years, and during the past year was president of the Community Chest In the East Bay Area and led the Chest to its greatest year ever. In addi­tion he is active in the K.C., the Scrra Club, and is on the board of Seminaries In the arch­diocese. 
A meeting of the officers and directors was held at the Whitcomb Hotel in S.F. on June 21, 1951, and it was decided that the following activities vt-ould take place within the coming months. First, there will be a picnic held dou-n on the Peninsula on July 29. Don Miller is In 
San Francisco Honors Paul Gushing 
Northern California's Man of the Year Award going to Fanl Gushing. Qnb Preadcnt George Thomas makes the presentation at Haitd Aksander. Hamilton's Terrace Room, 
San Francisco. (Don FauDoier photo) 
The Notre D*me Alumnus 

charge, and notices will be sent to the entire mailing list so that we may expect a good crowd. The site has not' been selected as yet, but it may be the. Pink Horse Ranch or Adobe Creek Lodge. In any event word will go out within a few days on the spot. 
The club will have a dinner party on Sept. (i for all lads returning to school, and in par­ticular for the Bay Area boys who are going to be Freshmen this year. I am going to WTite Father Thornton in hopes that he can provide mc with a list so that we may contact the boys and invite them and their fathers too. I would like you to furnish me the name of the president of the Cal. Campus club as well as his address so that \vc may contact him relative to inviting all the present students and their dads. Your help will certainly be appreciated. 
We arc making every effort to see to it that the Glee Club can be sponsored for a concert in this area, and we shall be in touch with them as soon as we have something definite. The membership is certainly enthusiastic about the affair and arc presently attempting to secure a suitable sponsor. Paul Cashing; Slip Madigan and Gcoige Thomas are taking care of the arrangements. 
John Maloney, '41, was the chairman of the Universal ND nitc dinner and he did an excel­lent job. John is now managing the Hotel Don in Richmond. 
The club is desirous of running another trip to the ND-USC game in December. Bob Tarvcr is looking into the necessary arrangements and we shall be in touch with Bob Cahill shortly. 
There is to be a listening-in party to be held 

at Spenger's in Berkeley the day of the ND-SNfU 
game on Oct. 13. We held a similar party 
there last year for the North Carolina game and 
it was a thoroughly enjoyable time. Bill Yore 
will a% usual take care of the arrangements for 
this affair. 
We arc trying to be more active all the time, 

John, but the real active working memberB of 
the club are really few. It's always the same 
few who have to do everything, and we are 
doing our best to get new blood into the activi­
ties so that more leadership ^vill be developed in 
the club. It will take time, but we'll lick it 
in the long run. 
Oregon 
Oscar Quoidbach, '48, did such a good job of presidenting the Notre Dame club of Oregon during " 1950-31 that he was swept back into office at annual Notre Dame Night elections. 
Bashfully Oscar (who in working hours is an auditor with the Oregon State Tax commission and is therefore looked upon as an enemy of the people) accepted the bid, but has announced he's already working on a "No Third Term" pro­gram. 
Filling out the new officer list for the Oregon Club arc Bob Franz, '48, vice-president; Hugh 
V. Lacey, Jr., '45, treasurer, and Ed O'Meara, *40, secretary. Since Quoidbadi held onto his job, Pete Sandrock, '39, con: t nues to hold onto the past-president's berth on the board of direc­
tors, along w*ith two newcomers, Harold Har­stick, '34, and Charles Slatt, '33. 
Tom Magee, '32, outgoing secretary after three years on the job, was handed a lot of applause as he stepped out of office, but the tangible reward in the form of a gift, was presented to Mrs. Kfagee by President Quoidbach, who said she "either did most of the work or allowed Tom enough time off to do it himself." 
'Magee headed the club's annual retreat pro­gram, with five members making the three-day session at the Loyola Retreat House in Portland on the first week end of June. Attending were Fred Cunningham, Bob Molin, Chariie^ Slatt, Ffctc Sandroclc and Magee. Several others, tm­able to make the June 1-2-3 dates, will attend later in the summer, but Magee is already plumping for "the whole club at Loyola in.'52." 
Past Prexy Pete Sandrock, out of town during Notre Dame Night on telephone company busi­ness, missed out on the home-town meeting at 
July-August, 1951 
Leo F. Mullin, 'U (right), and Paul C. Tully, '39, Washington dub president, at the Unknown Soldier's Tomb where the club placed a wreath on Memorial Day. Mr. Mullin is Notre Dam: Foundation governor for District of Columbia. 
the Mallory hotel (which drew nearly 60 alums and their wives), turned up instead at the ND club of Northern California's get-together in San Francisco. 
Future alumnus, Dennis Patrick O'Meara, ND '72 or '73 (holy smoke! are we up that far already?), arrived May 28 at the household of the Oregon club's new secretary, which may have been a contributing cause to the tardiness of these notes. He has mastered a couple of Irish cheers already. Practices usually about 
4:30 a.m. 
Pittsburgh 
The Club and Notre Dame suffered a teverc loss when John F. McMahon died. In an effort to convey to the public the appreciation of our opportunity o£ associating with such a splendid Catholic layman and in recognition of his endless actixities in Notre Dame's behalf, we awarded the "Man of the Year" scroll posthumously to John F. McMahon. His sons, John, Jr., and Mike accepted the award in behalf of their father. 
TIic new ofRcers for the year are: Robert V. Fulton, Jr., President; Lee Kirby, vicc-presidcut, and I^urencc R. Smith, Treasurer, and H. Carl Link, Secretary. 
On June 14, at The Pines the Student Club held its Summer Dance. Paul Votilla and Bob Wagner of the student group were responsible for the success of the affair as was Joe Nocci who stopped the show with a few songs. Gene Coyne, Bob Fulton, Hugo lacovctti, Lcc Kirby, Pat McAteer, Jim McLaughlin and Cail Link were the only ahimni representatives. 
We are still holding weekly meetings at Dutch Henry's. Leo Burby, Bob Chamberlain, Sam West, Vince Burke, John Briley, John Reardcm, Emmett Griffin, Eaii Briegcr, Judge Boyle, Jolin Hickey, Jack Sheedy and Regis Lavelle are fre* quently in attendance. AVe wish that any others in the vicinity would visit with us. 
OUR SCHEDULE FOR 1951-52 

Golf Party in July—Picnic in August—Pre­gamc Smoker in October—Communion Breakfast in December—Christmas Dance in Decembers-Retreat in January—^Mixed Communion Breakfast in March—UND Night in April. 
Phocaix 
- O K May 9 the Pfiocnix Club held election of officers which resulted as totkmti 
Pftsident: Aftcit J. Ficfci, Jr., '23 
Vke-Pk«s.: Jomgk E. HOR«M^ 'M 
Sccretair: AMm C GiAcft, '49 
Treasurer: Joh« G. CMdry , Jr., '36 

The members aad their wives celd>rated Uni-. versal Notre Dame N^ t with a Spaush <fiuwr at the LaPalma Cafe in Flwenix. Ytlih en­chilada, tortillas, taco, tmtaria, along with Chili. Con Came on the menu a **vcry hot** time was had by all present. 
Joh« J. Joyce was the Notre. Dame "Man of the Year." He was honored for his many good works and time spent in the interest of Notre Dame. 
Father Daancn Nfiilhi—ii, Chaplain at Wil­liams Air Force Base, was guest of honor. 
St. Jos«pii Yalky 
About eighty memben of the St; Joseph Val. ley Alumni Club qient the afternoon and cvenins' of June 24 at the Four Lakes Country Chb where our annual golf toumanKM held nnjr. Unfortunately, your secretary ifidn't get tlie names of the tournament winners but it seems that everyone won a prize of some sort or an­other except our hard working treasurer, Fn l FCTgas. Our "hats are off" to V. J. Sbck, chairman, and to Bill Doolcy for the swdl job they did in seeing that cveryooe had a good time. 
As yet complete tabulations are not in oa the Varsity-Old Tiiaen football game. Thanks to n perfect day, an interesting ball game and a big turnout our chtb scholarship fund should bene&t materially. 
St. Louis 
Universal Notre Dame Night was ceMiratcd at the Sheraton Hotel in St. Louis en April 23. Messrs. Jack Griffin and Jnn fyHoSk hawUed arrangements and it was an excellent progran and evening. Both of these fine gentlemen de­serve the highest praise because it was truly a wonderful affair. The fellows who attended greatly enjoyed themselves, for there was much gcx)d fellowship, and the dinner was a b ^ suc­cess. There was a fine talk by Father Marpky* wherem he told of the progress of the building construction at the University. 
The Club presented the "Bias cf the Year" award to Matthew Wcis, MJ>., as the outstand­ing local alumnus. His many activities ^leak for themselves; City Chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation, a Director on the National Alumni Board of Notre Dame, an active member of the St.' Louis Notre Dame. Chib, etc. 
The speaker of the evening at Universal Notre Dame Night was Mr. John Cra%, a prominent. Catholic layman^ from Tulsa, Oklahoma. Mr. Craig gave an excellent and in^iring talk con­taining an important message. He pointed out the opportunities and reqmnsibilities to the .lay ^Mstolates in the work that could be done, by them as such, by reason of good example and by a knowledge of religion. Mr. Craig further pointed out the advantages that were ours be­cause of the tradition we inherited, and a rccog* nition granted to older alumni who had been outstanding in this regard. Any one who at­tended this meeting and heard tKis talk will never. forget it. 
The follow*ing officers were elected for the coming year: President, John P. Snlfina, '39; Vice-presidents, Ernest. F. Habcfhcm, '33; Bo^ Conrannnti, *48; - J. Jawph Langtoa, *28; Secre­tary-Treasurer, Jotepli T. Golahowski, '31. 
Seven new members were added to the Board of Directors: Four-year term members are Tank White and Tom Hennigan; cme-year term mem­ber is Jowph GolabowskL 
Toledo 
Xc\%' oflSccrs were installed by the Toledo Club at a special Universal Notre Dame Night celebration. Bob Kopf succeeded Jack Solon as Club president for the coming year. Dick Dono^ue is the new \'ice-prcsident. Bob Hm­merman, incoming sccretar>% and Geoi^e Kor­hnmei is nou- treasurer. 
As his last official act of office, outgoing prcxy Jack Solon presented John Malone with the Toledo Club's '*Man of the Year" award. Malonc ser\"cd as president of the Club for several years and was a Board of Directors member this past year. 
Harry Detxer is the Club's new Board Chair­man. Other directors include: Pete Fluge, Bob ScJiramm, Ray Tillman, Urfa Grade!, Bill S}-ring and Jack Solon. 
A "special excursion" of Toledo Club members and their friends to the Notre Dame-Univcrsity of Detroit football game in the Motor City is being planned for Oct. 5. Bob Tlmmerman is chairman of the program, assisted by Jim Ma­lone and Jim Murtagfa. Notices of the event had been sent to local alumni, their parents and a list of 300 local "subway" alumni. 
The Club's directorx*, which has been in the planning stage for nearly a year, will be off tlie press this month. Distribution will be made to members immediately. John A. Richter, frit-nd of the Universit>' and Art Director of lUaco Advertising Agency in Toledo, planned the layout. 
Tri-Cities 
The annual family picnic was really a "Grand Slam" of a success this year. TTie 30ih of June was tlic big day at the Springbrook Country-Club, De^Vitt, Iowa. One hundred twenty-five in attendance played games, Wsited and ate to occupy most of their time. The feature event was a ball game between the Iowa contingent headed by Mike Bush and the Illinois squad man­aged by Vance Uhlmoxr. The Illini pushed across two runs in the top of the ninth to take a 2 to 1 decision. 
The lowans protested the game as their neigh­bor state had imported a couple of pros in the form of Jack and Joe Bush, who were dir< ct from Spring Training. 
Among the main prizes taken home at the end of the day was a gold lovin;; cup won by Mrs. Charley King for her record nrcaking toss of a rolling pin—125 feet. Ralph Ehr made hii seventh appearance as head man on the movie camera and reeled out many feet of treasured shots. 
The picnic committee headed by Cam Bracke with his aides of Frank McGuire, Dr. Joe Kre­30ck, Jim Do)-1e, John Bract, Jerry CulHgan and Jtog Nolan felt their efTorts were v.eil rewarded. 
The Western Open Golf Tournament Jicid in Davenport July 11-15 had a couple of Notre Dame representatives in George McCabc, Jr. and Tom D. Nash, Jr. 
The July luncheon meeting of the it-ives uas held at the Davenport Country' Club with Mrs. Dick SHift and Mrs. Jerry Arnold as hostesses. Mrs. Arnold was recently elected to direct the acti\ities of the wives club for'the coming year. 
Tri-Stote 
• The Tri-Statc Club held its annual Summer Round-up and Golf Tournament at the Prince­ton, Indiana, Country Club on June 21. The affair was attended by some forty persons. 
Golf was the order of the day for the men, while their ladies concerned themselves with the intricacies of bridge. In the evening a chicken dinner deluxe was ser\'cd, followed by square dancing. 
As in the past, Francis Hennebeiger acted as host for the party, and he awarded golf prizes to John Size, £d Kemp and Paul Thole, while the best bridge player, Mrs. Fred De^Ves was awarded first prize in that acti\^t>-. 
The Tri-Statc plans one more summer party, to be held in Jasper, Indiana, during the latter 
Joe Harrington^ of Panama, didn't make the retinions but did find tunc to drop in on Alumni Secretary Jim Annstrong (left). 
part of July or the first part of August . . . plans arc as yet, tentative, and Omer Stunn ot Jasper is in charge of affairs for that club activity. 
Any newcomers to the Tri-Statc Area arc urged to contact Ed MattfacM-s, Club Secretary', at 1213 Greenfield Road, E\-ans\'ille, or the Club President, Ray Zilbk, Haubstadt, Indiana. 
The newest member of the club is Bob Walsh, '42, uho recently moved to E\-ansvilIe from Toledo, Ohio. He is associated with the Gulf Refining Company, with another Notre Dame man, Thomas Hartnett; their offices are at Sec* end and Main Street, EvansWlle. 
Washington, D. C. 
A painting of Knute Rockne was donated re* ccntly to the Touclidown Club of Washington, 
D. C , by the members of the Notre Dame Alum­ni Club of Washington. 
Frank Leahy was in town at an all time All American banquet, and dropped in to the club to see Rock's portrait. 
The club held a Chinese Dinner and 50 Notre Dame people attended at the "Chinese Lantern'* on Saturday, June 4, 1951. 
Dancing followed the dinner and the cliairman of the affair was Vincent Doyle, class of '40. 
The Notre Dame Club held its annual picnic sponsored by the wives of Notre Dame men at the Bethesda Playground on Sunday July 8. On July I6th the men of the Notre Dame' Club "and the fathers of Notre Dame students held their summer golf outing followed by a dinner and prizes for the golf champions. 
On Sunday, June 17th, 20 men of Notre Dame attended a day of Recollection together at Holy Cross College followed by a banquet and short talks by Father Ransing, C.S.C., President of Holy Cross College, and Father Thomas O'Don­nell, C.S.C., Retreat Master. William Jones, National Alumni Vice-President, also spoke. The day was arranged by Mr. Harry Kirk, our Notre Dame man who is also president of the St. Vin­cent de Paul Society in Washington. 
West Virginia 
The Xotrc Dame Club of West Virginia wel­comed Comclitts Desmond, '51, as a new member in June. Mr. Desmond is employed as a cliem­ist at Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Co. in South Charleston. 
The club held its annual picnic the evening of July 10. A large turnout of members, wives and sweethearts had a very enjoyable time over seared hot dogs and good cold beer. Congratu­lations are in order to Larry Hess, '38, who did a bang-up Job of promotion. 
W«st»rn Washington 
This is n belated report on the successful celcbratioQ ^ri l 2, Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The lUy was marked by a very nice dinner a£ the Rainier Club, Seattle, attended by Notre Dame alumni and their wives. Approximately 50 couples were present. 
Drinks were served in the lounge adjoining the private dining room and dinner commenced at 8:00. 
We were honored to have as our guests the Very Reverend Thomas A. Connolly, Bishop of Seattle, and the Rev. Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., President of Portland University. State Governor, Emmet Lenihan, served as Master of Ceremonies. Father Sweeney gave a ver>* inspiring talk on what the Notre Dame spirit means. He spoke for approximately 12 minutes and then had to leave to catch a train to Montana. Bishop Connolly was the final speaker on our program and contrH>uted his thoughts on the meaning of the Notre Dame spirit. He was particularly appreciative of the help that Notre Dame men hai'e given him in his work with the diocese and. all in all, did a great deal towards dc­\*eloping a great desire amongst the Notre Dame men present to ser\'e in an even more effective capacity. 
A highlight of the evening was the presenta­tion by the undersigned to Bill Hemey, class of '01, of the Notre Dame club award "Man of the Year." Bill was ver%*, very deeply impressed by the award and richly deser\-ed it on the basis of his many years of self-sacrificing work for the Notre Dame Club in Western Washing­ton. As you may know. Bill has for many years been the sparkplug in wider participation by Notre Dame men in the annual retreat at St. Martins in Olympia. It is particularly fitting that this year a C.S.C. priest should be the retreat master. Bill has not missed a re­treat in the 27 years that they have been held here. 
two New V-P's 
Appointments of two new vice-presi­dents at the University and a new vice-president at the University of Port­land (Or^:on) highlighted obediences of the Priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross announced June 20 by Eev. Theodore J. Mehling, c.s.C., Provincial of the Indiana Province of the Congre­gation. 
Father Mehling announced the ap­pointment of Rev. Charles M. Carey, as.c.. Associate Professor of English, as Vice-President in Charge of Student Welfare at Notre Dame. Father Carey succeeds Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., who was named to the University fac­ulty. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., who for the past year has been pursuing ad­vanced studies at Oxford University in England, was named Acting Vice-Pres­ident in Charge of Business Aifairs at Notre Dame. Father Joyce, who for­merly served as Assistant Vice-Presi­dent in Charge of Business Aifairs at Notre Dame, succeeds Rev. John J. Burke, as.c., who has been forced by HI health to take an extended leave of absence. 
At the University of Portland, Rev. Michael J. Gavin, c.s.c., who has been serving on the Portland faculty, was appointed Vice-President of the univer­sity. Father Gavin succeeds Rev. Wil­liam S. Scandlon, cs.c, who died in ApriL 

50-Year Club 
DEATHS Matthew N. Smith, *88, ia Escanaba, Mich. Mr. Smith was president of the liscanaba Na­tional Bank, a director in Mead Corporation, and President of the Escanaba Paper Co. MUIiam P. Devine, July 9, in Chicago, III. 
1909 
Paul Martin-Dillon to Jim Sanfcrd: 
*'l have heard from Vincent O'Connor several times and likewise from his brother Joe, in Kerry. It seems strange that my little circle of Irish adventurers should have swung right back to friends in this country. But I believe I told you I had several experiences in the Emerald Isle which were so co-inctdcntal that I have arrived at the conchision that Ireland is like Broadway and 42nd Street in New York—stand there a little while and all your friends will come marching by. 
*'I would like to get to Rome for the beatifica­tion of Pius X, but I will just stay at home and let my friend, Vincent McAIoon, who is in Rome and whose ofhce is directly opposite St. Peter's, write me all about it. He has kept mc in close touch with all that has happened since the Holy Year began more than a year ago." 
1910 
DEATH Dr. Jesse Hemy Koth, May 3, in Tucson. 
1914 
DEATH Earl E. Rccder, Juiie 10, South Bend, In­diana. 
1916 
Our class graduated about 76 members, about 25 arc dead, but about 25, including the follow­ing, returned to Breen-PhilHps Hall June 7-10 for the 35th class reunion. The following were present: 
Ed Beckman, Jack Eckel, Rev. Pat Hagscerty, Tom Hayes, WlUam Henry, Lou Keifer, Ca:>ey Krajewski, Shorty McLaughlin, Waller McCourt, Pat Moloney, Ed Marcus, Grover MUIer, Rev. Vincent Mooney, Paul Smith, Bill Turner, Tim Galvin, AI Freund. 
We ail paid $5, whiirh included our rooms, ­banquet, and a cute little class cap. We held many gab fests, inspected all campus buildings, attended mass in a body. Father Vincc Mooney celebrating, had class pictures taken and signed a class roster. We had such a grand time that wc are now planning on our next reunion, (40th) in 1956. Any member who did not re­ceive a class picture or a signature rosier, notify Secretary Grove Miller. 
Lou Kctfcr was elected class president since our dear president, Eugene McBrid;, died. Your Class Secretary, Grover Miller 
1919 
DEATH Frank ^f. CenlUiTe, March 23, I95I, in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
1918 
Just heard that Vince Giblin (L.L.B. I9I&) has been appointed to the Circuit bench by I he 
July-August, 1951 
Governor of Florida. Vincc has established a fine practice and is one of the outstanding l::wyers of Florida. 
On the Xorthern end of the circii't, .Albert O'Sullivan (L.L.B. 1918) was selected Circuit judge for the circuit which includes Lake Coun* ty, Winnebago County, McHenry County and Boone County, in Illinois. Judge Al lives in Belvidcrc, Boone County, and is married and has a fine family. 
So congratulations to the two newest members of the Judiciao'* We arc sure that their respec­tive circuits will be benefitted by their services. 
1920 
Robert Arends, E.E. in 1920 is now an Ac­countant with offices in St. Louis. He muse have anticipated this long Democratic tenure of high taxes and still more to come. Taxes and Ac­countants will outlive the Constitution. 
Bob studied this marriage problem a long time —until he was past 40. He now has two girls and two boys. The oldest boy plans to lie a Mar>-knoII Father. Bob and family will be well taken care of with Spiritual Blessings. 
.Another classmate who chose a career other than the one on graduation day is "Clem" Mul­holland, bom in Iowa but found Chicago to be the Promised Land. "Clem" Is in the Real Estate business and judging from the size and quality of the cigars he smokes, that's the business wc all should be in. He is still the meditative, unexcitabic fellow wc knew in Law-School. 
1921 
Frank Miles was elected president of the ND 
National Monogram club for the coming year. 
Raymond J. McGarry has gone into busines; 
for himself to practice architecture and engineer­
ing in Dallas, Texas. 
DEATH Hon. Joseph F. Sanford died of a heart at­tack June 13, in Muskegon, Michigan. 
1922 
Two members of the '22 class this summer 
obser\ed their silver anniversaries of ordination. 
Father James Kline and Father Frank D'Hara, 
both teaching at King's College, Wilkcs-Barre, 
Pa., were ordained June 29, 1926, in Sacred 
Heart Church. 
DEATH James Percy Wilcox, June, 1951, in Minne­apolis, Minnesota. 
1923 
Louie F. Moore of the Gcne\-a Steel Co., Provo, Utah, sends on two recent issues of "The Peep Sight," able publication of the blast fur­naces division of Geneva Steel in Provo. Lou attended the USC game in Los Angeles with Mrs. Moore (Kay). The Moores now have two granddaughters and one grandson. 
SYMPATHY 

To Daniel '*Tex** Regan and daughters, on the death of their wife and mother \vho died February 3, 1951, in Houston, Texas. 
1925 
John L. Showel, vice-president and general manager of the Southtown Economist, and for­mer president of the Englewood Business Men's 
Association, was named Englewood's ''Man <rf the Year" for 1950. 
The award, symboltzcd by an engraved plaque, was presented to him at a luncheon of the EBMA, Kiwanis club and Lions club fay O. Sheldon Van Zant, chairman of the "Man of the Year" committee which represented the three organizations. 
In accepting the plaque, Showel disclosed that as president of EBMA he had (^^x»ed the "Man of the Year" idea when it first was pn^msed. 
"At that time I felt it would be diflBcult to single out one man in the community," Showel said. "When we select one man, we are forced to leave out others who have contributed as much or more to the conununity. 
"I can think of 20 or 30 men who deser\-e this award fully as much as I," Showel said. "It is on behalf of these men and their servicer to Englewood that I gratefully accept the award." 
Harold F. Han, circulation manager of "Amer­ica,'* rccenxd top billing in "Circulation Man­agement" in November. His article described the new, streamlined renewal system installed at ' ' 'America''; it jumped renewals from 61.4 per­cent to 76.1 percent. 
George T. Kodi was re-elected president of the South Bend Board of Park Commissioners. Leo 
P. Rieder was chf»en attorney for the board. James E. Anastrong, elsewhere identified as Alumni Secretary, Executive Vice-chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation and Editor ol this magazine, was paid special tribute by the 
American Alumni Council at its annual meeting* at French Uck, Ind. 
Jim was awarded a certificate of reco.^niitiun for his 25 years* service to college alumni asso­ciations. T. Hawley Tailing, president of the council, made the presentation. In the course of his alumni work Jun has been vice-president and director of the American Alumni Council and president of the National Catholic .\lumni Federation. 
This item is included here because Jim would doubtless blue-pencil it out of the regular news section; John Bonis, Substitute Alumni Secretary and vice-president in charge of Who Replaced Bill Dooley, probably will let it ride. 
1926 
Members of Class of 1926 attending Silver .Anniversary Reunion: 
FanI .Abd, Jack Adams, Bob Aodmn , Jim Bowea. Tom Borke, Hrab Burt, Art Bidwin. Ed Bnike, Bod Bair, Sid Bower, Bob CaUn, And, CooKn, Ed Crowe, Kca Cook, Viace Capaao, Bert CoagUin, Frank Crawler, Harry Caftan, Bin Dooley. Ray Dowm, Frank Deitle, Ji a Driscna, Bill DMgaii, Jira Dwyer, Bob Doraa, Ray Dnnt, Joe Dawei, Bob Doleial. 
Re Enrigkt, Herli Eggert, Noib Eagdi, Bai Foohey, Ed FaUoa, Lou Fraake, IVud FlcBii«, Too Parrell, Rooe Feld|>aiad, Al Foley, Gail Gumett. Bob Grahan, Jim Glym^ Rndy Goep­frich. Jobs Galla^er, Doc Gdm , Vince Goolet, Rev. Bin Green, Fiuil Harrington, Joe Hybnd, Ed Hargaa, Art Haley, Charlie Heintz, George Hartaett, Walter Hongbtoa, Roy Habert, Jerry Hayes, Joe HcmpUing, Hal Kramer, Frank Klein, Jim KeUeghan, Warden Kane. 
HaroM Klem, Art Kfiie, Mai Kaaus, To a Leahy, Ward Leahy, Bob LaFoOette, Charley Margnct, EOiert MahoMy, Bin Moore, CharBe Mason, F^nl MiDer, Frank Mckns, Gerry Mc-Ginley, Gerry Morsches, Ted Marfaao^ HaroU Neu, Frank Nees, Joe Navarre, Dan OTTein, Dutdi CVDay, Tino Fhiggiani, Clande FStsca­bergcr, Iny ftobst, Jim Fkanon, Joe Qnhdan, Jos Rigali, Harold Robertson, Jim Ronan. 
Mike Rcddington, BOI Reid, John Hym. Joe Shea, Jim Stack, Vince Soisson, Art Sndcr, Forest Swartz, Joe Shanley, Wade SoUivan, Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joe Toooey, ADen Travis, Jolia Touhy, Walter Trohan, Al VeUe, Bob Welsh, Jim WaMron, Ted Wrocklage, Bemie Wingerter, Howard WeimersUrfc, Seymour Wdiberger, Vic Yawman. 
Class Secretary John Ryan wrrites: 
After Three Great Days of a Silver Anniver­sary Reunion a class secretary should be able to sit back and say "Well, that's that!" But two 
21 
separate actions prevent any relaxation. The first of these was the reelection of your class officers to serve until our 30th reunion (more about 
that" later) and the second was "olc dcbbir* 
John Burns swinging his whip of a July 10 
deadline. So, here goes, you*re still afHictcd 

Contributions by Classes 
with Ryanwritis. 

FROM JANUARY 1 TO JUNE 30, 1951 
*Nunibcr Number of Amount Percentage in Class Contributors Contributed Con.ributing 
 and before  201  16  $ 665.00  7.9  
1901  21  3  55.00  14.2  
1902  34  3  85.00  8.8  
1903  ......  33  11  345.00  33.3  
1904  -.  40  10  565.00  25.0  
1905  37  9  1,090.00  24.3  
1906  48  12  1,836.25  25.0  
1907  30  6  110.00  20.0  
1908  45  9"  218.00  20.0  
1909  :  60  6  170.00  10.0  
43  10  1,295.00  23.2  
1911  ....  93  17  549.00  18.2  
1912  88  16  4,026.00  18.1  
1913  75  15  1,695.00  20.0  
1914  111  24  823.00  21.6  
1915  97  26- 1,575.00  26.8  
1916  91  15  920.00  16.4  
1917  117  16  2,420.00  13.6  
1918  96  22  417.00  22.9  
1919  84  12  709.00  14.2  
123  21  760.00  17.0  
1921  ..:..  134  33  1,437.00  24.6  
1922  210  41  1,887.46  19.5  
1923  260  42  2,224.75  16,1  
1924  274  47  1,597.50  17.1  
1925  373  84  3,323.25  22.5  
1926  316  62  2,432.50  19.6  
1927  437  79  2,001.00  18.0  
1928  488  74  2,473.50  15.1  
1929  533  65  5,322.45  12.2  
544  99  3,145.00  18.2  
1931  ....:.... 582  111  2,636.00  19.0  
1932  578  87  2,020.00  15.0  
1933  578  101  2,227.50  17.4  
1934  577  111  9,849.50  19.2  
1935  559  122  2,724.00  21.8  
1936  :  457  88  2,070.50  19.2  
1937  ..  500  90  1,474.00  18.0  
1938  560  92  1,732.48.  16.4  
1939  600  127  4,012.00  21.1  
707  129  2,275.50  18.2  
1941  629  119  2,128.78  18.9  
1942  595  144  1,696.75  24.2  
1943  620  129  2,281.00  20.8  
1944  536  118  1,482.50  22.0  
1945  330  63  1,266.00  19.0  
1946  330  60  480.50  18.1  
1947  746  143  1,262.50  19.1  
1948  .  1079  225  2,159.50  20.8  
1949  .  1443  310  3,398.32  21.4  
1203  128  1,726.97  10.6  
1951  871  439  1,509.47  50.4  

* Exclusive of deceased and religious 
 Average  Contribution 
$ 41.56 18.33 28.33 31.36 56.50 121.11 153.02 18.33 24.22 28.33 129.50 32.29 251.63 113.00 34.29 60.58 61.33 
151.25 18.95 59.08 36.19 43.55 46.04 52.97 33.99 39.56 39.23 25.33 33.43 81.88 31.77 23.75 23.22 22.05 88.73 22.33 23.53 16.37 18.83 31.59 17.64 17.89 11.78 17.68 12.56 20.09 8.00 8.83 9.60 10.96 13.49 3.44 
It*s the secretary's job to report what he sees 
and hears and what your secretary saw and 
heard was "This is certainly a grand reunion, 
it's too bad the rest of the fellows couldn't be 
back." Those words were repeated 110 times, 
for that is the number which your treasurer, 
George Hartnctt, and your secretary arrived at 
as the total attendance. The names are listed 
at the head of the column. 
Writing this particular column is doubly dif­ficult. First, I don't want to steal any of President Ray Durst's thunder; and secondly, I don't have any of those letters from you feIIou*s. It is Ray's plan to send the class a report on the reunion. Just how comprehensive it \%*ill be I don't know but if I stay aVay from details her« I'll be able to get Ray to include them in his report. In all probability you'll get Ray's letter anyway before you receive this copy of the Alumnus. I do know that with Ray's letter you'll get a copy of the class picture and a chart identifying the 93 in the picture (the other 17 were not present for the picture). Before you use the chart tr>* identifying them without it. You'll find your percentage pretty higli for twenty-five years have been very good to '2fa. Oh, sure, a little more weight here and there, a little less hair, or a lot of gray if the hair is there. It seems to me there were a couple around who were neitlier gray nor bald. 
Probably with Ray's letter will be a Treas­urer's Report from George Hartnett. As far as I know he won't be making any deficiency as-se«unents—nor will he be disbursing any surplus di\-idends. But George says the officers won't be able to make that trip to Hawaii. 
So watch for the report from Ray and George, (And watch John Bums doing hand springs because we're giving him all the space a full report in this column ^^'ould use.) 
But there arc a few things that should be rrportcd: 
The Mass for our deceased classmates ^vas celebrated Saturday morning by Monsignor Joe Tooiney. This was probably the high spot of the weekend. No count of attendance was made but it is certain that every 26er on the campus was there to pray for those listed on the me­mento card prepared by Bill Doolcy (a copy will be sent with Ray's letter, I believe). Sad to relate there were two names to be added. A letter from James Flaherty, Jr., Class of '33 re-' ccived by your secretary* right at reunion time reported that his father, Jim Flalierty, had died in February. And on Sunday, June 10, Edward 
T . "Tug" O'Neill died. Add them to your list and remember Jim and Tug and all our de­ceased classmates in your prayers. May their souls rest iii peace. 
The election of officers was presided over by Senator Art Bidwill. The officers that served 
•
you for the past year were reelected to serve 

•until
 our 30th Reunion. There were t^vo schools of thought on the election. Some said it was "railroaded" while others held the idea that some new men could have been put up and they could -be ''drafted," thus relieving the present officers from thetr arduous duties. Speak­ing for myself, I like the job and am glad to have been reelected. It is so well paid. Well paid in the contacts with all of you fellows and in your appreciation of the small efforts of yoiur secretary. And I believe I can speak for the other oflicers and say they feel the same way. 


Speaking of officers, two of our vice-presidents were tmadile to make the reunion. Midwest Veep CSiuck Mooncy as President of the Cleve­land School Board made assignments for high school graduations so as to leave himself clear to get back to the campus. Then, his family caught him \ia a dalughter's graduation and a son's installation as President of the S.A.C. at Gilmour Academy. Our Western V.-P. missed for a jBOTc serious reason. A few days ago your secretary had a letter from Bert Dunne regretting that he had missed the reunion due to being in a hospital for a very serious opera-tion. Bert is now convalescing but it will be a "I think your records wilt indicate that I couple of months before he is "getting his base 1926 have been conspicuous since graduation by my hit."!.** Good luck to you, Bert. absence from the school and participation in 

From Bill Dooley: affairs generally. Much of this I regret, and 
Frank Klein is one of the top feature writers 

There were many others who had last-minute my intention:^ have always been to begin to work ­
for the Sc. Louis Globe-Democrat, as well as 
changes in plans. Telegrams were received at more closely with the school. I have, however, 
assistant music critic. He writes the popular 
the Reunion from Capt. Frank Bon, U.S.X., Les moved about a bit since graduating. In retro­
"Concert Notes" for the paper and has toured 
Lovier, Austin Hall and letters from Father spect I realized that I would no sooner begin to 
with such outfits as the Sadler's Wells Ballet in 
Howard Kenna and £d Reaume. Ed Crowe get acquainted with the Notre Dame crowd in reported that Clem had almost gotten on the the particular dty where I was when I would 
order to do features. Frank's son, Keith, is a junior at Notre Dame and is especially active in 
train when a special meeting of the Canadian pick up and n^ove on to some other area. 
writing and announcing for WND, the student-
Football League was called and Crowe had to En route from South Bend to New York since attend. They tried to make it so it looks like graduation' I have been from three to seven years 
operated campus radio station. they'll have to start planning for the 30.h. Chuck Guinon, whose last whereabouts was in the following locations: Great Falls, ^Mont., Grand Rapids, Mich., is now connected with the S:. Paul, &finn., Minneapolis, Minn., Hyland 
And it's not too soon to start planning for the Royal Canadian Fuels in Toronto, Canada. He Park, 111., Boston, Mass., Winchester, Msss., 30th. After all, it's only five years away and is connected with the Sales Office in this or> and New York. Continuing^ tn the same dirrc* those years are beginning to move faster. As a ganization. tion there would be no place to go from here 
long range idea I have a notion to throw all of From Thomas £. Mc^Vrdle, Jr.: except out in the ocean; but I expect to be your names into a hat—or two hats if I can "I had looked for^vard to returning to ND this 
here permanently. borrow one. In one will go the names at the June. However, Tom III is being graduated head of this column and into the other the from N.M.M.I. at Roswell, New Mexico and now more ready take what­
"I am than to on cver responsibility this high and honorable o£Ece names of all those who were not able to be commissioned into the Army on June 5, so that of Vice-President for the -East may require and back for the 25th. Then pairing from each hat takes care . of that. I do, however, hope to am especially interested since we near our twenty-you HO would be each given a *'buddy" to start make the ND-SMU game this fall." 
fifth anniversary, date. I presume that the working on for '56. Of course the name you get Francis M. Esch who %vas listed as unclaimed principal obligation of this new office will be to might be a fellow who lives in California while on the 1926 class roster would like everyone to organize and raise the enthusiasm of the mem­you live in New York but a three-cent stamp know that he i^ ver>- much alive and has a bers of the class to get ready for the big .affair 
will get the ball started. The idea assumes that sales organization in Houston, Texas. His address of 1952. If you will send me the list of my all of the 110 attending the 25th will want to is 3752 Darcus, Houston 5. Texas. 
prospects, I will begin to operate at once as get back for the 30th and that some of them DEATHS Vice-President in Charge of Sales and Enthusi­will work on two "buddies." If I decide this Francis A. McGee, March 10, 1951, in Svra-asm for the class of 1927. 
is a good idea and can find two hats I'll go cusc, N. Y. 
ahead with it. Vd appreciate any comments, "Since I get into Chicago frequently, it will 
Thomas E. "Tug'* O'Neill, June 9, 1951, in Holyokc, Mass. 
for or against it, and as a matter of fact I'd not be difficult for me to come to South Bend much prefer that some of you fellows send in for a few hours; therefore, I expect that I will 
James F. Flaherty, February* 4, 1951. 

some ideas to keep the pot boiling until "SG be able to call on you in the near future. 
when, God willing, we'll make that KH) per cent Joha S. Hicok" reunion. 
From John CaroUo, living in Phoenix, Arizona, 
1927 
comes the news that he is a member of the There is one other feature of our Silver Anni-. 
This July 10 deadline has caught me with firm of Headman, Ferguson and Carollo,' Con­versar>* that made it such a slilnmg success. 
several cards and letters out and a few returns sulting Engineers. His firm operates thi oughout I'm sure Ray's letter will cover it better than in. Leo Mclntyre's report in the last issue of the Southwest designing power plants, eas sy^ I can but these remarks would be incomplete the Alumnus that he had been inundated by tems, waterworks, etc. John writes that he has without it. This column could not close without letters from his '28 classmates led me to e.\pcct very recently become a grandfather. (This ktnd mentioning one man whose yeoman efforts before heavier mail. But then, ours has always been of news from a classmate tends to age one over­and throughout the days of the Reunion did so a conserx'ative class. night.) Congratulations, John! I wonder how much to make everyone feel right at home. 
John Hicokf one of our new regional Vecps, many other grandfathers we have among the '27Our untiring Local Chairman Rudy Goepfrich strikes an enthusiastic note in a letter to Jim men. Besides his married daughter, Susan, John was a perfect host and I know evcr>'onc appre­Armstrong. Jack, who is now a divisional man­says that he hasn't seen a .classmate since he ciated his part in our reunion. 
ager for Hotpoint, Inc., 570 Lexington .\vc.. has a son, John, Jr., who has just completed 
IVatch for Ray's letter ivhicli will winil up New York, writes: his freshman year as a pir-mcdic student. John our 25th Reunion. And begin to get ready for Dear Jim: saw Hairy Tynan in 1941, but he has had some our 30th. In the five years to come this column "I was amazed but, nevertheless, pleased to contact with a few others by mail including will need sustenance. Send in those letters— find in reading the S'otre Dame Alumntis for John Brennaa and Sam hinzt. The reunion long ones, short ones, postal c:ards, any form of March-April this year, that I have been elected next June would be a real opportunity to estab­news. We're beating the drums for '56. Vice-President for the East for my class of 1927. lish more direct contacts. 
For 1926 Members—You're Sure to Find a Familiar Face 
_;-"^^^^iM^i'i 
- -^^.iTx" --^ i_>­
•7 ^S; 
/ 

On the Library steps, the Silver Anniverssuy Class of 1926 sat for a portrait. Not every returning member nuMle the appointment for the picture, but 1926 was still the best represented class returning for th e June reunions. President Ray Durst and Secretary Jdw Ryan are 
already at work to set a record for the 30.year reunion classes in 1956. 
Regis Z^^YIIC reports from Pittsburgh tliat lie has visited ND a couple of times in the past two years; but since he came after th«; summer session, he saw no one. He tried to look up the ever bus\' Joe Boland, wlio on both occa­sions was unfortunately elsewhere. 'HiOTigh K*cis says that he does not sec many "27 men around Pittsburgh, he does mention a few. 
Tony Dean, formerly with Republic Steel in Youngstown, Ohio, has recently moved to Pitts­burgh and is with the H. A. Brasscrt Co., sti-uc­tural steel contractors. Tony is married and has one youngster. 
Regis mentions talking occasionally with .Al Diebold now on the board of directors of the Duquesnc Brewing Co. in Pittsburgh. Now and then he also sees Neil Galone, who, except for a period of military' scr\-ice, has been with the Bell Telephone Co. since his graduation. Ac­cording to the class roster, the .Alumni office has lost contact with Ray Kasher, but Regis traced him through the tclcplionc company of Omaha, Nebraska, and has talked to him by phone twice in the last year. Ray is married, has four children, and is with Line Materiak Co. 
Regis himself is an industrial sales represen­tative of almost fifteen years* standing with the Duqucsne Light Co., and he has two rliildreu, 

" a girl fourteen and a boy nine. Tliough his present interest is to get a couple of fimtball tickets, his long range plans include a irip to Notre Dame next June for the reunion. 
Pat Canny, Cleveland man of the year, is listed in the most recent Alumnus as a '28 graduate, but wc believe our class can claim quite a chunk of him, and so we extend om congratulations. 

My office mate in Science Hall, Steve Ronay, took the news of his election to tlit; ofHce of class treasurer with the steadiness that formerly made him a redoubtable man on the mound. Conditions being what the>- are, the prospect ol handling more funds doesn't seem to daunt him. Sieve lias recently returned from a t^^•o-^veek training stint at Fort Knox to keep his rcsene status active. He \-isited Joe McGce in Louis­ville, who reported a visit from Emmctt Kirwin around Derby time. Emmett, according to Steve, is located in Atlanta, Ga.; but his address is not on our roster. Steve also informs mc that Joe McGec's eldest daughter is being married in August. 
From Chestnut Hill, Mass., Joe Gartland writes: "I sec few classmates from '27 thciugh I did see Leo McCauley recently at the Mctro­ropolitan State Hospital, Waltham. Mass. He would appreciate any mail since he is confined there with a dislocated hip and cannot be operated upon." Inasmuch as Leo was a gen­eral favorite, I'm sure he'll get that mail. Toe assures mc that he himself—and, even more, his wife—keeps busy with two bo>*s and two ghls. Since wc have the same number and distribution, we'll agree with him. Joe is working as an in­dependent payroll auditor in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. 
There is a fairly lengthy communication fioni our correspondent in the national capital. Bill Coj-ne, always one of the more populir men in ilic class, but now, alas! He's a bureaucrat. He is an attorney in the Division of Law, Office of the Administrator, Housing and Home Finance agency. Bill, always a keen political anal>'st, senses a "fw" in the fact that so many of the newly elected '27 officers hail hom South Bend and vicinity. 
Bill mentions having seen Lt.-Coloncl Dun AVilkins on several occasions. Don is on active duty in the officer procurement deparirnent of the Air Force. Bill has also seen Bill Kav­anaugfa, once a bus>' student manager, now stationed in Washington with American C>*ani­mide Co. Mark Ne\ils spends part of each week in Wasliington as repri^scntattve of the airplane matmfacturcrs. The remainder of his time is spent in New York. From John Cianci, '29, Bill learned that Frank Aheam has a fine position as City Editor of the Hartford Times. In a helpful spirit. Bill urges me to get in toucli with Frank Pendcrgast for news of the West. As the character in the **Mikado" says, **I have him on my list." 
In the midst of a press of business, Sam Prinzi conscientiously took some time out to bring me up to date on his activities. Sam finished N D as a mechanical engineer but has spent most of the time since in construction 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
RICHARD J. HANOUSEK 
J. B. Calva and Co., Minneapolis, recently acquired a new vice-president and general manager. 
The name — Richard Joseph Hanou­

sek, '27, one-time practitioner of foot­
ball on the team which won a national 
championship for Notre Dame in 1924. 
For several years prior to his con­

nection with the Calva firm Dick was 
president and general manager of a 
Alinneapolis bakery and he pioneered 
experiments in fortifying bakery prod­
ucts with vitamin content. He or­
ganized and headed the Natural Vita­
min Laboratories of Pittsburgh and 
developed a method for processing 
brewer spent yeast, until then a use­
less product. 
The Calva company is essentially a research organization, in the "applied research" field. It has developed such items as the first cardboard container for lubricating oils and a process for treating sheepskin to make it resemble fine furs. 
Dick is married, lives in Minneapolis, and is the father of two. 
and Piper, Inc., a Minneapolis firm and one of work—buildings, railroads, bridges, highways, dams. He is ntjw affiliated with Johnson, Drake the largest construction companies in this coun­try. Working out of the New York Branch Office, Sam has cliar^e ot the heavy construc­tion in Pcnns>-I\'ania and Eastern Ohio. He is presently engaged on a schedule calling for the moving of more than three million yards of dirt and rock in less than one hundred day*. Sam also has two boys and two girls (which bc^ns to sound like par.) Sam is living in Ellwood City, Pa., and hopes to return to the campus in June, 1952. 
Besides Herb Jones and Bill Broderick out at Notre Dame, I occasionally sec some of the '27 men in and around South Bend sucli as Pat Cohen, Gene Knoblock, Paul Butler, and Ray Snyder. Ray is the youngest looking member of our class that I know. His formula is simple: merely to work at three or four Jobs at a time so that age never catches up. 
Like Mr, Chips, wc at Notre Dame get some indirect contact with classmates occasionally through the sons of '27 men. IVe had Bill Dcgnan's son as a student, and two of Al Snuth's, besides seeing some others such as Jim BramaQ from time to time. Unlike my prede­cessor, Joe Bolaod, who in the very nature of 
his work circulated about the country running into men of *27, I'm prcty much cliair-bomc and so must depend upon correspondence. 
Among other things, the Alumni Office would like to get some information about some '27 men with whom they have lost touch. A few of them arc Frank Andrews, JtK Balliagcr, Larry Bidder, Herb Braun, Mike Farrcll, and Nidc Katiffmcn. 
To lay the groundwork for the biggest and best class reunion up to date, we need to get cver>'one into the news columns during this year so that all will cromc to the reunion well-briefed and full of enthusiasm. Thanks much to those who have written. For the rest, let's pour it on. 
Congratulations to John W. Brcnnan on being promoted to the position of Chief Engineer of American Blower Corporation. John has proved his all-around ability after scr\'ing six years as Sales Manager of the Hydraulic Coupling Divi­sion of American Blower Corporation. 
Your Class Sccretarv', Frank Moran 
Father Jim Moran, chaplain at Wcstovcr Field, Mass., wants to hear from Mike O^Kccfc, of Niles, O. Father Jim won the Silver Star for bravcrv' under fire on Luzon. 
1929 

Classmates, if you have less than ten, nine, or five children, please don't feci that this column is discriminating against you. Rather, perhaps there is some correlation between being a justly proud father and a good correspondent. AVc thank Jim Kennedy, Phil Tompkins, Orson Daitsman, Tom &furpfay, Leo Schrall for their fine letters. 
From Phil Tompkins: "All of us here hope for Don Plunkcte's speedy recoverj- to health. 
In 1930 I married Eloisc Dorothy Zicgler, of Toledo, Ohio. Wc have been extremely blessed with nine healthy children. Lenny, the oldest boy, has spent the last five years studying for the priesthood in the Benedictine Seminarv' at St. Meinrad, Ind. 
I have been connected with Hart Stores, Inc.,. of" Toledo, Ohio, for the past seventeen ycars> in the capacity of vice-president during the last three years. The last nine years wc have been in Evansville. 
I frequently hear from Bud Clark who h extremely successful in the drug business. His health is good in spite of illness suffered a few years ago. 
Many Notre Dame men arc prominent in our local affairs. A few arc Bill Fitzgerald, Ken Kasndy, Inv Hager, Judge W. Lerning, Pete Tlwlc, Dr. P. J. Corcoran, and Steve Enser. 
I am looking forward to the next football season with a great amount of pleasure as it has always been my "Number One"- interest." 
From Onon Dausman: ". . . The present status quo of my family is seven very healthy members . . . 
I have been with the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. since graduating and have enjoyed my work in the Plant Engineering Dept. ver\- much. I have lived in several different cities in the state during my 22 years with the company and now live in Indianapolis. My present job is Divi­sion Plant Engineer for the outstate area. 
My main interest right now is trying to lose some weight as I have increased from my trim 155 pounds when at ND to a sluggish 225. I still play some golf but it is less and less each year. 
I haven't seen any '29crs I know here in Indianapolis and don't have any recent news from any of the others. I want to extend an in\-iution to any of the gang to stop for a \Tsit if they are in the city. I would like to hear from Howard Doll and Joe Dautremont as 
1 don't think they are too far from Indianapolis, 
and maybe we can arrange to get together. 
Glad IB hear of Rocco Perona's addition to the 
family. Congratulationt! 
Will try to get oiit to school for a visit next 
time I'm in South Bend. 
Best regards, 
Orson Dausman** 

From Jim Kemiedy: 
Glad to bear from you and to report the arri\'al of our 10th child on July 6, Romona Rose Kennedy. She weighed in at 9 pounds 5V2 ounces, a chubby red-head. She and her mother, Elizabeth (Prof. Henr>- C. Staunton's daughcr) arc doing fine. This makes the score five boys, five girls. 
Accounting for the rest of the family, two bo>-s arc in St. George High School. One of them, Jim, played freshman football under Coach Max Bumell (ND, '33, I think). Tlie other, John, is interested in basketball and golf. They arc both as big as I was in my freshman year at XD. (I have to keep my shoes, ties and socks under lock and key.) 
My rcd-hcadcd daughter, Betty, starts at Immaculata High School in the fall and even­tually plans to go to St. Mar>''s for her college work. Patricia, Tom, Bob, Kathleen and Henry, (he is No. 8 if the names confuse you) arc in our parish school, St. Margaret Mary (near the E\'anston-Chicago boundary). When school resumes in the fall, my wife will have plenty of time for her Cub-Scout pack and our Catholic Family Action Section with only Marx-Helen (No. 9) and Romona Rose (Xo. 10) to look after during the day. 
I .understand that we can get a Papal Bene­
diction if wc have 12. 
Incidentally, Larr\% this Catholic Family Ac­tion program is a wonderful activity for Notre Dame men. Elizabeth and f have participated in it since Pat (and wife. Patty) CrowIcy» ND '35, initiated us about two years ago. Our section grew rapidly until our respective homes ii-erc not large enough for tlie crowd and we divided up—meeting occasionally as a single group in the parish hall, othcr\%'isc as separate sections in each member's home. I understand Carl Marterstcck, ND '35, is active in South Bend and you might mention my regret at not seeing him at the C.F.A. convention in Lisle. 111., last year. The new baby business pre­vented our attendance at the similar convention at XD this year. 
Personally, I'm still sales manager for Triumpli Mfg. Co., in Chicago as I have been for 12 years. Wc make radio, radar and similar elec­tronic gear for the militar>* ser\'ices. I do some engineering development work on new items, but mostly my work is in sales. If I sell a half-million dollars worth of our products a year, the kids all cat regular. (They arc in good shape these days.) 
I developed a photographic specdiight for the civilian market a few years ago that has been 
Two club presidents of the Toledo Club were in on the Man of the Year award to recipient John Malone. Center is Bob Kopf, new president, and right is Jack Solon, outgoing president 
very successful but manufacture of it has been curtailed for the past year due to the military program. In the course of promoting the speed* light, I became an ^'authority" on it and lec­tured at a number of tramera clubs throughout the country, demonstrating how color pictures could be made of pretty models in dance rou­tines. (Don't snicker, fellow classmates, when you have 10 kids you too can safely take pic­tures of chorus girls and keep your mind on your work.) In the ccwrse of this activity I got the job of Secretary of the Chicago Tech­nical Section of the Photographic Society of America, an organtlation in photography corn-America, an organi7att''n in photography com-which I am also a member. 
I occasionally sec Ray Dust, ND '28, Wee-president of Hallicrafters in Chicago; Spike AIcAdams, '29, who did so much to elect Sena­tor Douglas of Illinois, and I bumped into Pat Cancy, '27, the last time I was in Cleveland. Pa: carries a dimple in his Jaw where I broke it in the Bengal Bouts in our Freshman year. Wlien I step on a scales and sec the pointer smack over to the stop pnd th^n quiver back to 245, it is hard to recall fighting on the N D 
team  as  a middleweight.  Pat  is  a  bit  over­ 
^vcight,  too.  
Of  course  I  sec  my  brother-in-law,  John  

Staunton, XD '32, wlio lives in Oak Park and masterminds the electrometers and spectropho­tometers of ibc Coleman Instrument Co. in Ma>-%vood, III. Wc occasionally mix his five children with our gang and then spend the rest of the day sorting them out. My other brother-in-law. Dr. Henr>- A. Staunton, XD '35, is just startin*; his family with one boy bom in May, in South Bend, where he is practicing medicine. 
.All together. Prof. Henr>* C. Staunton, who retired from the English Department at XD in '49, has acquired 22 grandchildren. He and Mrs. Staunton now reside in Binghamton, X. Y. (far enough from all the grandchildren so that they will not disturb his research into the writings of St. Tliomas Aquinas.) He does play Santa Claus at Christmas, visiting one of his family tree sprouts each year and getting acquainted witli the new members. 
I correspond too infrequently with Mark Kirchner, '29, and Harney Rockwell, '34. 
Does anyone know the whereabouts of Joe Apadoca, '30, who was best man at my wedding in '34? I'd like to advise him of the latest addition. 
Best incident of the year was sitting back of Joe Abbott, '29, on the Broadway Limited one evening in April while he lectured a friend on the merit of sending a boy to Xotre Dame. He really sold the school. Joe didn't know I was there and frankly I didn't recognize him at first but I never realized before what a val'i­ablc man our class had. AH the boy has to do to make the team is to mention Joe's name. (I'm just kidding, Joe, you really had a swell line and I enjoyed cver>* word of it.) 
Cordially yours, Jim Kennedy, '29 Tom Murphy writes from Fairfield, Conn.: '^Received your card and will give you what little dope there is around here. We're working on our XD picnic under Nick Loucar, '35, our club president. Plans were to tr>' to combine with Hartford and others to have a state picnic, but there were too many difficulties. 
I've been at the same address for nine years and have been personnel manager for Bridge­port Moulded Products, Inc., for about eight years. Xo real outside affiliations except little league B.B. and football officiating. Gave up coaching five years ago. 
Sure hope to make the 25-year reunion and see my old roommates, Terry O'Mallcy, Jim Bray, and T^m Mo^'nihan." 
Leo Schrall sends along this news from Peoria: 
"I am not with the Red Wings any more. I quit ihem in 1949 to accept the head baseball coaching job at Bradley University here in Peoria. I am also assistant football coach and scout for the basketball team. Besides that I am an instructor in ph>'sical education. So you can see, I keep pretty busy. Last year I was named Coach of the Year in Baseball in the Missouri Valley Conference—after we won the conference championship. 
Haven't seen any '29ers lately. See AI Gv r 
everr AOH* and then, also KD Mar 
I hope to make- the 23tli Reonion if it doesn't 
conflict with my coaching dnties.'* 
Don Flnnkctt submitted the following items: 
The class of 1929 extends sincerest sympathy 
to Frands Jonei on the recent death of his 
father, Vitus Jones. Mr. Jones was a promi­
ncnt attorney of the firm Jones, Obenchain, 
and Butler. 
Judge Tom C Murphy, probate judge of 
Detroit, was in South Bend during the weekend 
of Commencement. 
Joe Lauber (South Bend sheet metal construc­
tion) has recovered from his coronary ailment 
and is back directing his company. 
Joseph G. Friel has been elected treasurer of 
Joseph E. Seagrams Sc. Sons, Inc.>. and all affili­
ated companies in the United States. Mr. Friel, 
who has been associated with the companies 
since their start in 1^4, was previously secre­
tary smd assistant treasurer. 
Thomas M. Lee received the Philippine Legion 
of Honor award last month in Hawaii. He has 
been stationed in the Philippine Islands since 
1946 as the assistant cJiief attorney of the vet* 
erans administration there. It was the work 
he did in this capacity that won him the 
award. 
DEATH 

Paul A. Bertsch, July 4, in Akron, Ohio. 
1930 
At Reunion weekend this year the Alumnus class secretaries were invited to attend sessions for two days on the campus. These meetings were in the form of panel discussions, and they were very fruitful with ideas that may en­gender better alumni relations. It was a good chance to shoot Alumnus breeze with Frank Hockreiter, '35, Jim Collins, '32, Al Lesniez, '45, Ed Mansfield, '^ , BUI Scanlan, '42, and other secretaries who over the years have been giving it more than the mere college try. Louie Buckley, dean-emeritus of class secu-etaries, went over the whole field of secretary problems in one of our sessions, and gave solutions that he had found workable in his years of beating the typewriter. One question remained unanswered in these meetings: an easy method of getting classmate news? The older, experienced heads, smiling benignly, would reply to that query, "You just have to dig." 
I dropped in on the 1931 class reunion and saw lots of people that would be well known to 1930 class members. A visit of this kind reveals the merit of a reunion plan where a group of classes of consecutive years hold their reunion at the same time. For example the 1930 fellows living their senior year in Badin 
Father Cavaiuuigii acceptmg for the Uni­veisity of Notre Dame Foundation the Kentucky CluVs contribution for its schol­arship fimd, and past president Roger Huter of Louisville, mafcihg the presen­tation. 
Hall (Mooo Eaton, Mink SuUix-an, Phil Fh-nn, Bolj AfcDonald, Gil IVendergut, Buck Slack, and others* would contact at this reunion such 1931 Badinites as Joe De^ , Bob Masse>-, Frank Boutcrac, Al Grisanti, Gee\'er Ga\-in, Jim O'Brien, etc. 
The 1931 reunion had the customan' informal debates that were reminiscent of the rhubarbs we had in Morrisse\' Hall bar last year, in­\-ol\ing Jack Cannon, George 0*Malle>', Harry-Buscher, Christy Flanagan, Pat Canny, and other eminent pundits. For example nobody should have missed the informal discussifon of football TV, with Moose Krause presenting the large-college viewpoint, and Geever Gavin up­holding the small-college position. AVhcn the exchange tended to become too calm and dis­passionate, Carl Cronin was on hand to toss in a few barbs to stir things up again. Over in another comer, you could hear that ageless con­troversy* about whether linemen or backs had the greater intellectual weight, with Wally Fromhart and Art Cronin ofTcring some new twists to the debate. 
Tlic spring football game brought some 1930 men to the campus. Bob Holmes, president of the local alumni club, had the chief worries on arrangements. Joe Ruppe, who is with Sim­plicity Pattern Co. in Nilcs, Micliigan. came out to the game to assist in handling the croivd. .-Mso Fran Messick, entering the game with his son, saw there was work to be done, and pitched in as usual to help out. Incidentally Fran was recently elected president of the St. Joseph Valley chapter of the National .Associa­tion of Credit Men. 

The night before the Varsity-Oldtimers game, my brother^ Don, and I dropped into the Oliver hotel and had a chance to visit with Clarence Kozak, Chuck Rohr, and Chuck's guests. AVard Leahy, '26 (Supt. of NY Central, BufTalo to Chicago) and the ubiquitous Mr. Canny, legal counsel for the Erie R. R. Frank Leahy came by and we got into a discussion about the transformation that comes over athletes in four years of college. Almost everyone had favorite examples to illustrate the poise and gentlemanly stature that these men attain in college, 
Clarence Kozak was on hand the next day for his usual duties at the ball game. Just be­fore the game he slipped me some notes he had promised. He had been in a huddle with Hunk Anderion of the Chicago Bears. Lou Rymkus of the Cleveland Browns and Dick Galla^er, new coach at Santa Clara. He men­tioned that Lt. Bob Andorfer was at the game \isiting with Coach Bob McBride. Ralph Hinger, former Freshman basketball coach at Notre Dame, was on the campus. Hingcr is • now head coach of basketball at St. Vincent's high school in Mt. Vernon, Ohio. 
Members of the 1930 class will want to re­member in their prayers a ver\- sick daughter of a class member. The fourtecn-year-oJd daughter of George Pope, deceased member of our class, contracted polio in the spring of 1950. She and her mother have been at Warm Springs in recent months. Tlicre they talked Notre' Dame afTairs with Jack Joyce, '41, re­covering from a severe attack of polio, and with Jade Miles of South Bend, about whom yon have read frequently in the Alumnus. Members of the class who wish to wrize Mrs. Pope can reach her by addressing mail to the Foundation, Warm Springs, Georgia. 
A number of letters have gone out this sum­mer to 1930 men in an effort to get some news from their respective regions. The replies have been scarce. I suppose many of these pleas reached men going on or coming back from vacation. And that is a bad time to tap men for letters. So about September 1, I expect a dehige of mail from those fellows. 
It is about time that 1930 men bring the secretary up to date on their current affairs. The last time I heard of the following they were doing the following things: 
Fred Wcnddl Lennng, Juvenile Judge in Ex-ansxille, Indiana. Father of a boy and a girl. Lugged off one of our prizes at the reunion and never even sent back a thank-you note. 
Chet Aihman, manufacturing chairs, Morris­town, Tennessee. Yea, but what kind of chairs? Is it that kind that is wired for either AC or DC, and from which you don't get up once 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

REV. THOMAS E. HEWITT, C.S.C. 
Father Hewitt is the Alumni As­sociation's second ranking chaplain, holding the rank of Major in the Air Force. He is ranked only by Father Morrie Powers, '33, who as Division Chaplain of the Seventh Division has frost on his dandelions. 
Father Tom was recalled to active duty in April of this year and assigned to Walker Air Force Base, Roswell, New Mexico. He was originally com­missioned in 1942. 
His present assignment is to Head­quarters and Headquarters Squadron, 509th Air Base Group. The 509th is the original "atom bomber" group, hav­ing dropped both World War II atom bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
A native of Chicago, Father Hewitt is a 1933 graduate of the University. 
you are thoroughly ensconced? We should have these things cleared up. Here wc may have in our own class the most distinctive chair maker in the country, and wc don't know about it. 
Don Scfaetting, whose hobby is attending re­unions, any kind, and who occasionally looks in on the retail hardware store he owns and operates in Pennsj-K-ania. 
Dan Shaughncssy, MD by way of Tufts, four years in the Naxy, now practicing medicine and collecting his memoirs soon to be published by the Alumnus. 
Harry A. Bussdier, with the Veterans Admin­istration in Reno, has a ranch loaded with registered cattle; won them on five straight passes in a Reno casino. 
Adam Bray was selling baby food for Mead, Johnson and Co. Qualified for the job by hav­ing a family of two boys and two ^Is . Stole that food formula while hashing at ND dining halls. 
Dick OToole, MD in PitUburgh. Versifier, I>Ticist, recent nominee for a Nobel prize in writing limericks. 
J. J. **Pfcpper** O'DoimcII, who filled in a reunion questionnaire marked "accomplishments** with "holding his own." Anyone want to make anything of that? 
Honest John FanI Forsec, &(D in Louisville. Father of seven children. Fa\-orite ball player of the late Coach Gcoi ^ Keogan. John so plays a bridge hand that you arc sure his real skill must lie in medicine. 
Four hundred and eighty-five other fellows in the class of 1930 who have not kept this infor> mation center alerted on their present doings. Get those postcards and letters in before the new rates go into effect. 
Joe Ryan of Columbus, Ohio, was on the campus for a short visit. He had taken his boy down to summer camp at CuK-er, and dropped in to talk with Bob Cahill about tickets for a football excursion. 

George 0*Mallcy wrote me a swell letter a while ago. When I addressed a letter to him, I thought it might have to travel about a bit before it caught up with George. But his description of his present duty explains why he is still at San Diego. George writes: 
"You are doing such a bang up job as class secretary that it would be impossible for me to turn down your request for news. As I look back in retrospect to our reunion, one year ago, it is difficult for me to understand why you do not have more material for your column. Where arc all the literary eeniuses in our class? I remember that J- Gilbert Prendergast wrote a i»eckly column for the Scholastic wi^thout any trouble, and he still had plenty of material for the "bull sessions" in Badin Hall. It was nmiored that he supplied material for some of Harry Sylvester's short stories. Yet, I have failed to read any of Gil's masterpieces in your column. It must be an all time low to have 
H m Toomey and me supply so much material for your column and not to hear from all the latent literary talent, which exists in our class. I suggest that the former contributors to the Scholastic drop you a line once in a while. 
Another suggestion would be for Doctor Rich­ard OToole to furnish a few I>Tfcs to liven up your column. I am sure that Dick has some b-rics that would pass the censor. I heard a Very good lyric the other day about . . . 
The young lady from Decatur 

Who married an alligator; If Dick's repertoire does not contain this gem, I would be glad to supply him with the com­plete lyric upon request. 
I hope Dick's physical disability, which forced him to forfeit the sinogth dance contest at the Palais Rfivale, to Dan Barton during our time at Notre Dame has improved. 
Deverc, I have not much news concerning our class members. I had a very pleasant surprise about three weeks ago. Gus, NOT Bus, Bondi called me from San Diego. He was cnroute from an insurance convention in Dallas to Long Beach to vbit his father. Gus and Kay, his w-ife, who was a Soiuth Bend girl, came out to my residence and we enjoyed a very pleasant \*isit. Gus is a very^ old friend. We attended high school in Dixon, Illinois, and Notre Dame together. 
Gus was disturbed about the mistakes con­tained in Jack Cannon's letter, published in your column and corrected in your column .in a later edition of the Alumni. I wonder w*hat he is going to think about the appellation Bus ? I have attended a few meetings of the San Diego Club of Notre Dame, as the result of the pub­lication of my letter in your column last year. I had a call from Emmett McCabe, which re* suited in my membership in the local Notre Dame Chib. Emmett has a fine position with Convair in San Diego. 
Win Day is the present President of the local club. Win is doing a very fine job in promoCtng Notre Dame in this area. Emmett and Win both live in LaMesa. 
I am still on duty at the District Legal Office of the Eleventh Na^-al District. Our office is very busy at the present time because of the new* Uniform Code of Military Justice, which standardizes the Government of the Armed Forces. The Code went into effect on May 31. 1951. The procedure contained therein is new for the Navy. This means many changes in our Courts Martial procedure, whidi in • turn means 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

much more work for the lavvyers in the Navy. In fact some old line officers say that because of the requirements for lawyers in the Navy, some one must ha\*e had the mistaken idea that we are to sue the Russians, instead of fighting them. 
Missed the pre-game rally in Los Angeles prior to the SC-ND game last Fall, so I did not see many old friends. I met Herb Jones before the game, but did not hear from my friend Charlie Callahan. Bill Toomey suggested in one of his letters, published in your column, that • perhaps my discttssion with Charlie Callahan at our reunion last June, might have something to do with our four defeats. The record does not bear out Tim's remarks as evidenced by the Nax-y's defeat of .Army. I feel Charlie did not take my advice to heart. 
Devere, I note in your letter you state that you have no thoughts of salar>- matters. If you do, I suggest you obtain the argument for a living wage presented by Tom Frost in Father Boland's class in Social Justice, on behalf of the young ladies who took care of the house* cleaning details in the halls of Notre Dame. 
I hope this opus will be of some use to you. My kindest. personal regards and best wishes to you. 
News from Frank X. 0*Ncil, Jr.: 
** . . . 1 sure enioy reading the Alumnus especially about mv friends and "idols" from '26 to '30. 
X enrolled at ND from Arizona (Globe), in my sophomore year, sold Bob Kendall on ND. and he is now a successful insurance man of Phoenix. Since my departure from XD, I have been employed by Standard Oil Co. of Cali­fornia in the marketing department. I ha\'e covered the states of Arizona. Nevada, parts of Oregon and California. I've met ND men in . all parts. Joe Bcinor in Santa Barbara. Calif., Slip Madigan in Oakland, F. Leahy and foot­ball crew in L.A.—oh. I could write from now on about fellows I have met from ND. I must mention Bishop J<An F. 0*Hara who was Pre­fect of Religion when I was at Carroll Hall. Frank Leahy sat in scat behind me at Carroll Hall. Saw Tom Kassis at S.C. game in L.A. in '49; Tim Moynihan at Santa Ana in '47. Some of my "idols" were Father 0*Hara, "Rock," Jr. Afooney, J. Njikos, C. Flannagan, F. Miller, Bud Boeringer. 
Met Bishop • 0*Hara in Arizona visiting his brother, Pat. I was shocked to read of the death of John AfcMahan. John and I sat next 
Frank J. Rcilly, *37 Class Secretary in Chicago with AI Stcpan, Chicago Club President (left) and Frank PoUnow, Jr. The Trio met at Hotel Drake during a meeting of the Chemical Specialties Man­ufacturers* Association. (Frank Associates 
Photo) 

July-August, 1951 
to each other in Father Wenninger's zoology 
class. 
AVe're counting the days until Frank Leahy 
and his men will be out here in December. 
Kfust close now—please remember me Co all 
my old pals of tfie *29 and '30 classes. 
May Our Lady watch over our alma mater 
always. She certainly has been good to us all." 
Richard T. Sulli%'an, Associate Professor of English at the University of Notre Dame and ^videly•known author and book critic, ^vas pre­sented the fourth annual Notre Dame Faculty Award of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago at the Chicago observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The award, which was inaugurated in 1948, is made annually to a member of the Notre Dame faculty for outstanding. contributions in the field of learning. Previous recipients of the award include Professor James A. Rcyniers, Director of LOBUND Institute (1948), Dr. Eugene Guth, Director of the High Polymer Physics Labora* tory at Notre Dame (1949), and Dean Clarence 
E. Manion, of the Notre Dame College of Law (1950). 
Professor Sullivan, who has been a member of the Notre Dame English faculty since 1936, is a nationally-recognized novelist. His first novel, "Summer After Summer," was published in 1942. He subsequently authored "The Dark Continent" in 1943, "Tlie World of Idella May" in 1946, and "First Citizen," in 1948. A new-book on Notre Dame by Professor Sullivan will be published shortly. 
The award winner also is recognized as an accomplished short story writer. "The Fresh and Open Sky," a collection of his short stories, was published several months ago. In addition to scr\'ing on the Notre Dame faculty. Profes­sor Sulli\*an is a book critic for the New York Times and the Chicago Tribune. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Fred L. Cunningham, Mary Frances, Feb. 15 in Portland, Oregon. 
SYMP.ATin' To Michael J. Bishko on the death of his wife. 
1932 
Our class has been highly honored in that the Very Rc\'. Loras Lane was elevated to being Auxiliary Bishop of Dubuque, Iowa, and Titular Bishop of Bencenna. Bishop Lane has lived in Iowa most of his life, and entered the seminary after receiving his degree on the campus. It is a distinct privilege for each of us to congratulate him on his consecration. 
A letter from Herb Giorgio, thanking the class for electing him president, states that he is making plans for our twenty-year reunion. The district vice-presidents will attempt to contact every member of the class in their regions to fonmilatc plans for this. 
Don Sulli\*an, of the South, writes that he is planning to get in touch with each one as soon as he receives their addresses. His new address is 4655 Marigny St., New Orleans 22, La. 
Baden Powell, of the West, whom I saw for an evening in Hollj^vood last month, tcih that Jack Naftzgcr is living in the Los Angeles area with his wife and four children; Bill _Corr is still working for Lockheed Aircraft and lives at 22651 Burbank Blvd., Woodland Hilk; Fred Dockweiler lives at 5803 Lyndcnhurst, Los An­geles; Herb Gocke lives at 3987 Hepburn Ave., Los Angeles 43; Bob Leppert is in the insurance business in Los Angeles, and lives at 1246 Son­oma Drive, Altadena, Cat.; Sam (now called Pat) Locken lives at 1636 Hermosa Ave., Her* mosa Beach; Ed Melchiorre is in the Los Angeles area but Baden did not have his address. 
Baden, Incidentally has left the TV broadcast­ing business and has gone into the advertising business, and doing very well with it. 
Speaking of advertising, an interesting letter from Ray Geiger tells of his activities as Secre­tary of Geiger Bros, of 16 Nesbltt St., Newark, 4, N. J. Ray recently had an article In "Sign** the trade magazine. He edits and publishes "The Farmer's Almanac" tvhich is being published for its 133rd consecutive year. 
Ray further wrote that he recently saw VIBCC Dono^ne in Philadelphia where Vince is asso­ciated with his father in the funeral direction' business. He is a lawyer but is not practicing 
now, 
Sal Boatempo is in the City Council in New­ark. Ray said that Sal was elected ."almost single-handedly" last time and should be re­elected next year. 
Ray also' mentioned recent visits with Paul CToole and Fnm Oderick in Chicago, and with Frank Oberltoetter in Rochester. 
Commander Bob Lee was recently promoted to that rank, and is to be congratulated. He writes from Pensacola that he was eicpecting to be transferred to the office of the Judge Advo­cate General of the Navy in Washington. 
1933 
Dear 33's: Yoohoo fellas—TWO letters this month! I was wrecking my brain, as Durante would say, thinking of a collossal ga^ to tell you that big news, but you know what a gag is usually used for, and heaven forbid I should silence any ol you lads who might be moved to write. I can stand prosperity—three, four, or more letters won*c hurt me, so give with the news or rumors. 
I'd like to add a few words to what I said last edition about prayer. You know, or should know if you know me, that there are a number of our guys in our class a lot better fitted than I to write about anything religious. In fact, I wish they would write about religion—or any­thing else—and mail it to me. None of *em do. So I have alt this empty space John Bums wants to fill . . . and I can't draw, and they won't print my poems, and Ann won't give me any recipes—why don't YOU write, and I'll stop bothering ^-ou? 
About prayer, now, like I said last time the important thing is to get 'em said, even if you don't feel particularly prayeriul. Determination —even if you have to say them with your Jaw stuck out, just to remind yourself that you're determined. To be practlcU, you've got to figure a time to say your prayers every day. As soon as yo(u roll out, say at least a Hail Mary In the morning. It's easier to kneel than stand up right away, any^-ay. Then if you ride the L, subway, streetcar or bus, it's a perfect time to say a Rosary or other prayers. Keep the beads in your pocket and your mouth closed—people will just think you are figuring your income tax —hell, they might even join you in prayer. At night most of us are too tired for any long 
Frank Leahy before the portrait of Knute Rockne m the Touchdown Chib, Washing­ton, D. CL The paintii^ was recently pre­sented to the Touchdown Clab by the Alunmi Chib of the CafNtaL 
27 
\igils. But if you only dip the knee and say "Thanks, Lond!" at Jeast say some h'ltJc thing to show you realize God got you through another day, even if it vfas the first of the month. As for the prayers themselves—all yew really need is the Our Father and the Hail Mary. Then just talk—that's what He gave you a tongue for, so 'v'ou might as well use a few of the muscles talking to Him. 
Lads, I wanted to break it to you gently, but this was a daisy of a month—I got t\«'o let­ters. Enough to turn a man's head, all this attention. 
But I'll break right into it, and I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. It's from Leo Keating, who ranches at 115 N. Harv*ard .-\ve., Atlantic Cit>', N. J.: 
^'This may surprise you almost as much as it docs me. I trust you will weather the shock. 
I read the Alumni magazine as I used to read the "Religious Bulletin" edited and written by Father 0*Hara, with zeal and anticipation. 
**As representative of our class I need not mention to you my disappointment at the dearth of news from the class of '33. (Give it to 'em, Leo boy!) I am as much a culprit as the next fellow for haWng been more than lethargic toward your pleas and prayers for news of '33s. 
"When Baden POM-CU of '32 has to supply neu": for '33 that does it. 
**My name is Leo Keating and I was one of the *Threc Little Men of Walsh Hall,' the other two of my roommates being George Gru and Sabby Addontzio. Gru is now the imprcssario oi Casey's Cafe and emporium ia Balduin, Long Island. (That's N' Yawk, fellas.) Addonizio is somewhere in Newark, N. J., but have not heard from him in 10 years, me his old roomie and confidant: 
**\Vhat ever happened to Pal and Ray Troy 
whose father was chief of police in Newark, N.J . ? 
"How about Charlie Slatt of Butte, ^fontana, 
the biggest copper hill in the world? 
*'Where are Qareuce and Leo Bcauleauier of Wyoming? Dan Hanley, Che\'alier from Montana and Fred Fa>-cttc from Vermont, Phil Faherty from New Jersey? He used to own half of Lambert\^Ile. How about Xorb Schwartz from Salina, Kansas, who used to play bridge in 410 Walsh ? His pet expression after losing out on a finesse was, "One never knows, does one?" 
"Of course we hear of Nick Lukats, the moWc actor. He was wonderful in the "Monogram" show of 1933 as Groucho Marx and Eddie Cantor. 
"We know Sbccketdu is or was coach at a school in the far West that produced Mackridcs, now with the Philadelphia Eagles. On the other band what silenced Ray Bnmcheau from ^fonroe, Mich., Frank Henningfield, Sam Jackson from Youngstown or Mike Kokeo and Jim Harris from the same bailiwick? 
"No wonder ND did not have a great ball club in 1933. Looks like we all got married and our wives will not even Jet us write a letter. The little women must have us bullied and cowed. We must all be reduced to eating soft-boiled eggs, hard-boiled eggs are too tough for a bunch o[ sissies to eat. (You teU 'em, Leo!) 
**Ma5^>e if some of the following see their names in print they might respond with a Htle information about themselves. 
**Hou* about "Kitty" Gorman, "Blue-Bell*-" Herce, Joe Kurtli, Frankie Gaul of W^atersville, Mc» "Chock" Jaskewicz, Bill Ourerman of Penn Yann, N. Y. 
''This letter is not vcr>' informative but then how can it be when '33 goes edition after edition with little or no neu-s. Not your fault. 
"I meet **Chet" Hoyt c\'cry time I'v gone to a football game and he seems to be doing ver>* well. He looks prosperous and still has his red hair. What difference what color as long as you have hair! 
"I sat on the bench of the Notre Dame-Pcnn basketball game with Ed Krause and Josh D'Amora. Saw ND get licked for the first time in Philadelphia. Josh is doing well with the State Maintenance Department and getting fat. I was also talking to Jack ROey. 
"I spent a week at Holy Cross * college the year they went to the Orange Bowl; and they were loud in their praises of Notre Dame men 

1916 Brought a Chaplain 
Father Vincc Mooney, front and center, and Glass Secretary Grover Miller, far left, round out the even dozen for the Class of '16 in the doorway of Breen-Phillips HalL Father Mooney is new Ghaplun of the Monogram Club. 
who had coached Holy Cross at \'arious times, namely Krause, Harris, DeVore and Sheeketski. 
(.•\nd Eddie Anderson, too, I trust!) 
".At a Na\-y game three years ago I saw Clay Johnson and Charlie Ferris. Clay is a D. C. lawyer and Ferris is with the Housing Unit. 
"Like so many others I had to move due to housiug shortages even though Tigfae Woods, the Federal Housing Expediter, is a classmate of '33. ^faybe I should ha^-e dropped him a line. He doesn't have enough trouble. 
"Now to knock off. I left in 1933, got a job as a school teacher and coach and am still at it 18 years later. I feel that I work in the ''blood bank" of education. I've worked for coolie w*ages so long my eyes are starting to slant. 
' 'I married a girl named Marie Daily, hav e five children, two for ND 'and three across the road. 
"Here's a coincidence of my life. While at ND Fred Snite and Gene Calhoun used to live' across the hall at 408 Walsh. Fred also used to play bridge with us. Six years later I was married by a Father Lallou, one-time president of Catholic University. He told me after the ceremony that he was with Snite and their family when Fred was taken sick in China. Small world. 
"During the war I flew with the A.T.C. Had 45 flights over the Atlantic and heard the '*Victory March" being sung from Labrador to Dakar, Africa, and Natal, S. America. 
"I c:annot ramble much further so I will sign off. 
"I trust you can do something with this hodge-podge. I enjoy your column and par­ticularly your religious 'thought for the day.' " 
Many, many thanks, Leo—that's one of the best letters this column has received in my time. And there's something for the rest of the class to shoot at. Remember—long as it was, Leo's letter only cost 3 ccntsf Grab a pen and show Leo your wife can't keep you from w*riting a letter! 
Chris Reilly, who is in the Reilly Undertaking Co. with his brother, John, has been made a member of the State Board of Examiners for Funeral Directors (State of Arizona). Chris lives in Tucson, Arizona, is married, and has a family of tH-o bo>-s and two girls. 
Brother Jode CotteUo, C.S.C., has returned to the Orient after a year's tour of Europe and the United States. Brother Costello was a teacher in East Pakistan. After ser\'ing as head­master of the Gregory's high school, Dacca, India, he was named religious superior of the brothers there in 1946. In 1947 he was ap^^ pointed a member of the East Bengal Secondary Education Board and is on five other educa­tional committees. 
In 1949, the go\-emor of East Pakistan ap­pointed him to membership on a special board to revise the secondary curriculum. In 1950, as a member of the General Chapter of the Con­gregation of the Holy Cross, he traveled to Rome for sessions and later returned to the United States. 
Your Class Secretary, 
Joe McCabe 
1934 
Jim Leonard has resigned as head coach of football at V^lano%'a College so that he may devote more time to his recently enlarged New Jersey farm. Jim previously coached the Pitts­burgh Steclers of the National Football league and St. Francis College at Loretto, Pa. He played with both the Steelers and the Philadel­phia Eagles in pro football after leaWng Notre Dame. 
Edward J. Fisher has been appointed director of . market research for Alexander Smith & Sons Carpet Co., Yonkers. Edward is president of Fisher & .Associates, marketing consultants. In-dian^Mlis, Ind., and Louisville, Ky. He also is a member of the School of Business Faculty, Indiana University, the author of several mar­keting text books, and for the last five years has been director of marketing and promotion for the Indianapolis Star and Indianapolis News. 

1935 
Thomas L. Htckey, Sr., has been presented the Silver Beaver award for distinguished service to boyhf)od by the executive council of the St. Joseph Valley Council of Boy Scouts. He has been active in scout work for more than 25 years. 
Norman J. Fredericks has been clei-ated from vice-president and treaAirer to president of the National Ready Mixed Concrete Association. 
MARRIAGES Helen Boehnlein to Eli J. Sbabeen,' May 10, in Mishawaka, Ind. 
Jane Noble to Albert T. Costello, May 26, in South Bend, Ind. 
Mr. and Afrs. John Foy of Decatur, Illinois, have added another boy to their family bringing the count up to three boys and one girl. 
1936 
Members of *36 who registered for the June Reunions: 
Bert Bauer, Geoi^e Binder, Bob Buriie, Conal Bynie, Hamilton Calvert, George Cann.n, Fred Carideo, Bill Chapell, R. F. Cook, Morris Cooper, Art Cronin, iVial Curran, John Da!ey, Fhil De> Bruync, E. R. Dunn, Tom Dunn, Bob Er^-in, WalHc Fromhort, Tom Grady, Herman Green, Louis Hansman, John Hickey, Leo Hofscfaneid.r, Leon Hufoasel, R. A. Hurley, Howard Jcffers, }6hn Kennedy, AI Kolka, Frank Kopcrak, Roman Ladcwski, C.S.C., Ken Laws. 
Bill McCraley, Bill McCrcady, Lea McFarlane, 
J. L. MsHenry, Joe McMahon^ Ed McNolly, Frsd McNeill, Joe MacDonald, Bob MacDonald, An­thony Mozziotti, George Miller, Lee Mcorman, Gil Moty, Joe Navarre, Joe Newman, M. J. O'Connor, Justin OToole, Larry Palko\ic, Henry Pojman, Joe Ponzevic, Joe Ratigon, Al Rohot, Charles SchlafHer, Bob Schmelzle, Bill Schmuhl, Anthony Scolaro, Jim Sherry, >Voody Stillwagon, Luke lleman. Gene Tobin, Dominic Varra\-eto, Tom Vicara, Terry Vogrl, Hugh Wall, Fred Weber, George Wolf, Reno Zarantonello: 
At the reunions, the class blossomed out with a 
nominating committee and the following new of­
ficers: 
Luke Hema n (Chicago) President. 
Lee Moorman (Detroit) Secretary*. 
Bob Er\-in (Notre Dame) Treasurer. 
Re\*- John H- Wilson, C.S.C., was director of 
the annual vocation institute held July 19-22 at 
Notre Dame. 
Joseph Petritz has been appointed assistant to 
publicity director Joseph T. Labrum, of the 
National Football League. Joe will establish an 
X.F.L. publicity office in Chicago. A; an exhibition of contemporary architecture at the Art Alliance in Philadelphia the medal cif honor of the Philadelphia Chapter of the .American Institute of Architects was awarded to James A. Nolcn, Jr., and A. A. Swinburne. This was for a design of President's Hall at Temple University and was judged the "most outstanding architectural project" in the Phila­delphia area. 
Karl Fulnecky is taking congratula'.ions on his recent election as Grand Knight of the South Bend Council, Knights of Columbus. 
Howard Jcffers and a '35 cousin, John Brcen, have moved into an all-Notre Dame law Arm in Chicago. They've become associated with Tom Donovan, '24, and John Sulli\-an, '24, and the backfield is now known as Donovan, Sulli* i-an, Jcffers and Breen, of 134 S. Lasalle Street, Suite 600. 
DEATH The Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, May 18, in Chicago, 111. 
1937 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Joicph P. Mahoney, a son, Michael Conroy, May 3, in Chicago, Illinois. 
SYMPATHY 

To Rev. IVilltam J. McAultffe, C.5.C., on the death of his father. 
DEATH Dr. Edward P. Drendel, Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
1938 
Hal %\llliams sends us this note from Ed Sullivan's column: 
"After you've inspected the Broadway bent, at close range, for too many years, thrills are few and far between. But one came to life, at the Stork Club, on Easter Sunday night. The band­leader, learning that about 25 of the Notre Dame Glee. Club were in the place, swiung into the songs of the Fighting Irish. Instantly, the youngsters stood up and sang 'cm and when they finished, the place really came to life with solid applause. The South Benders were at the Stork with their dates, the graduating class of the Academy of the Sisters of Mercy, at Gu-yn­edd Valley, Pa., just outside of Philadelphia. 
ftlalcolm Wallace has been named head of the department of classical languages in .the school of arts of St. Bonavcnture University. 
John Patrick Murphy has been named head coach at John Adams High school in South Bend. 
Joe Rowe earned a Master of Arts Degree from Niagara University. His thes&: '^An Analysis of the Juvenile Delinquency and Recrea­tional Facilities in the City of Niagara Falls." 
MARRIAGE Myrtle Lucille Bihm and Frank Cosgrove, June 9, at Notre Dame. 
1939 
After a few • months*, absence it seems strai^e to %mte zgam for this c<rfnmn of so-called newj. And now we're late, thanks to gettii^ marooned in the floods that otfr dust' bow] state has come to expect; if thb gets through it will be at least a week late. 
From a couple of months past I have a letter from Jos Sduih^ now partner in the Gladwia Flouring Mills at Gladwin, Michigan. Married and the father of two boys. Chock TbencB dropped in for a viut last summer. Mike CoisaM is coach at Traverse City, Michigan, and doing a great job. 
Lord Woilcr noted that the news of 39 was getting thinner and thinner and dn^qted in a note with quite a bit of information. Seems Loyd just completed hu year as prexy of the Tulsa Club, and is the proud papA of a little girl — but didn't indicate if there was any connection. The Tulsa boys had quite a little reunion when Moon MnZlitt was a visitor. 
Toaa Foye Is now located at 2503 Manchester Ave., Inglewofxl, California. Had a note that Ed CyCoanor has had a novel published and quite a few favorable renews. 
Your Class Secretary, ^^Bcc DeC3nner 

Frauds M. Payne, Jr., his wife and two children were featured In a fuU-p^e advertise­ment of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company of Newark, N. J., in the "Saturday Evening Post'* May 9. He is a partner in the Cleveland law firm Payne, Hermaim, and Pusti. 
Thomas F. Foye has cq»encd new offices for law practice at 2503 Manchester Ave., Inglewood 4, California. 
The Rev. Sebastian Welsh of the Tr^ipist Order has been ordained to the Holy Priesthood. 
Farley Hall Steps Were Always Crowded 
Alumni President R. Cbnroy Scoggins (straw hat) ndglilMwed aimmd to 1936 headquarteis to sit for an informal portrait. Behind him is Art CmniB of Detroit, who made the '35 Reunion last year and has already joined the '37 class for its next year's remiioii. lOBUND 
Administrative Director Bob Eivin is at Craahi's left. 
Cbestcr J. Gaiewiki, MJ)., has opcnrd a new 
<!M)tsicirics and Gynecology o£5cc at 4000 W. 
North Ave, Chicago^ Illinois. 
Thomas B. Hogan is a new- partner in the 
iinn, Haskins and Sells, 67 . Broad St.. Xc\«' 
York 4, N. Y. 
BIRTHS 
To ^If. and Mrs. John L. AlcGuinncss, t%s-ins. 
Patricia and Michael, March 15, 1951, in Water­
bury, Connecticut. 
1940 
Fred Robcitshaw, Jr., is connected ^*ith the Metallurgical Section. Thomson Laborator>% Gen­eral Electric Co., West L^'nn, Mass. 
James P. Metzler is in Korea with the First Marine Division. Captain Frank V. CioIino*s new address is Hdq. T/Sch. Bldg. 2201; Fort Eustic, Va. 
Bernard A. Swanser sends word that he has been with the F.B.I, since graduating, and his latest address is P. O. Box 331, Walla AValla, Washington. 
MARRI.AGES Mar>* t^ngfield and Don C. Zappia, July 21. in Xfishawaka, Idd. .\Hce Lorene Hoover and William Frauds Mc­!***"»>*. July 4, in South Bend. Indiana. Joan Reuther and Lieut. Comdr. Robert Fran­cis O'Neffl, May 26, in New York. The engagement of Clarence T. (Pete) Shee­han, Jr., *40, to Miss Winifred Cecelia Coyle, also of YoungstoH-n, Ohio, was announced July 8. The'wedding will be at 9:30 a.m. Aug. 11 at the Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Miss Coj'le, who holds a bachelor of science in nursing education from Sr. Louii University, is clinical co-ordinator. on the faculty of St. Elizabeth Hospital School of Nursing, Youngstov%-n. "Pete" is city hall reporter on the Youngstown A^ndi­cator. 
1941 
The official register counted up an even hun­dred. But Ralph Gerra (top-ranking graduate of the class) counted 12 full tables in the din­ing hall, multiplied the 12 by 10 (number at each table), and came up with 120. So we'll go along with Ralph's count and say there were 120 "bo>-s" from the Class of 1941 at the Tenth Reunion. 
Among the big wheels of 1941 were three of the four Dome Award winners—Ray Kelly, Frank Doody and Tom Carty. Jack Biirke %v>as missing. Of the class officers only secretarv- Bill Moulder showed up. There was a shortage ol monogram men, the two I saw being George Rassas and Frank Sheets—^not to mention a couple of managers, Marty Shea and Bill Hawes. 
Votes for the guy, who changed the most dur­ing the past 10 years were pretty* well diWded between Bob Dowd and Bill Canon. Bill, by the way, hitchhiked 1000 miles or so to get to the reunion, stayed only a few hours and had to take off again. 
Class president Charlie DiUon couldn't make it. But I got a telegram from him (didn't re­ceive it until I got home) expressing his regrets. He was in the midst ol law exams. 
Actirities—^at a class dinner (ablv set up bv Dick Ball and Bill Honnski), Mart>' Shea and Joe Ncenan tried to hold a class election. But as of now, the class officers are the same old guys. Prize as ^reechniaker at the dinner goes to Joe Cattie for a dissertation on Notre Dame aims. The reunion dinner in the dining hall on Saturday brought up the subject of a 53,000,000 fund drive to be completed this year in honor of Father Cai*anaugh. The idea seemed to go over well with e\'er>'onc in the class Who dis­cussed . it. Now is the time to remember that initial enthusiasm and get a contribution on its way to the campus. 
The best my memory can do in listing names of 1941ers who attended the reunion follows: 
Verne Whkowski, Gene Ryan and Jack Gaither (they all brought their wives), Jim Brugger, MaU Bynies, To n Carty, Joe Cattie, Bill Cotter, Ton Delb, Bill Dimhaun, George Fcrrick, Cy and Lee Garvey, Ralph Gcrra, Tom Gillespie, 

The Class Secretaries Take Time Out 
Bctu-ccn sessions of the First Glass Secretaries* Gonfcrciice. Left to right, Lou Buckley, '28 class president; Alumni Director Ed Beckman, '45 Secretary Al Lesmez, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C., Alumni Directors William Sherry and Richard Nash and '34 Secretary Ed Mansfield. 
Harry Gottroo, Jerry Hammer, Jim Hannigan, Bill Hawes, Frank Hopkins, Bill Hosinslu, Jack Keegan, Oscar Hastens, HoHie Korth, Don Kra­lovec. Bill Kramer, Bob Langlois, John Lanon, Bernic Mago, Larr^* MajcH-ski, Rube Marqoardt, Frank McI>onougfa, Red McGo^xm, George Miles, Jim Murphy, Jack Murtaugh, Joe Neenan, Herb Westhoff, John 0*Dea, Bob Osbom, George Rassas, Lou Riegal, Jerry Ryan, Frank SheeU, Heinic Schrenker, Bill Hoyne, Marty Shea, Dick Walter, Jim Nc^land, Jim Tinny, Jack Lucas, Vm Smith, Paul Mgnos, Bill Moulder, Frank Doody, Tom Carty, Ray KcUy and, last hut not least, Hawley Van Swall. 
Most asked for but not present—Bob Doran. 
John Patterson, Jr., 
Secretary 
Hawley E. Van Sn-all, formerly associated with leading S>T3Cuse, New York, real estate organiza­tions, has opened his own office in the State Tower Building, S>Tacuse. Tlie new organization, the Hawley Van Swall Real Estate Company, is equipped to handle sales in all general real estate categories, including residential and com­mercial selling and mortgages. 
From Emery A. Beres: 
''I am now employed as office manager and accountant by the S3iley Machine and Foundry Corporation of South Bend, Indiana. I started this new job on May 21 this year. In May, 1950, I became a Certified Public Accountant, receiWng my certificate in Indiana. In June, 1947, I received roy Ma$ter*5 degree in Business Administration from the Uni%*ersit\- of Chi­cago ..." 
.\ letter was received from UHfrid J. Hosscy giving his new address—90 Kitchener Road, P.O. Box 413, Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Canada. AVhy don*t we hear more news from our alumni in Canada? 
John L. Campbell has been called back into the armed forces and is stationed at Randolph Field. San Antonio, Texas. His new address is 267 Eupona, Sacusct Ridge Apt. 4, San An­tonio, Texas. 
James O. Lang is working with the F.B.I. in Detroit, Michigan. His home address is 506 W. Second St., Delphos, Ohio. 
SYMPATHY To Francis H. Gomuis on the death of his mother in South Bend, Indiana. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. James G. Newland, a son. 
James George, II, May 29, in Indianapolis, Indiana. Mr. and Mrs. Maurice F. Stauder, a son, Michael Frank, June 2, in IVitt, Illinois. 
1942 
Steve Juzwik, former ND halfback, has signed to a one-year contract as head football coach at Holy Trinity High School. Juzwik, who played on the Irish varsity in *39, '40, and Ml, after graduation was with the Washington Red­skins. .\fter a stint in the service at Great Lakes Na%-al Training station, he returned to professional competition as a member of the Buffalo Bills and the Chicago Rf)ckets. 
Leo V. Tmgcoo, Jr.- is' practicing otolaryngol­ogy and endoscopy in Los Angeles. 
Edward J. Glaser has opened offices in Cin­cinnati for practice in aid for diseases of the eye. From the parents of Walter J. blinder is sent this news: 
Walter was married to Dolores Nora Boycr in Xurenbei^, Germany, in December, 1950. The couple spent their honc>-moon in Switzerland. He scr^'ed 44 months in the army before begin­ning accounting work for the army exchange services. His address is Hdqs. E.E.S.—Comptrol­ler Div., A.P.O. 696-A., c/o Postmaster, N. Y., 
N. Y. Walter J. Desel, Jr. is with the First Marine Division in Korea. BIRTH To Mr. and Mrs. Jim Doyle, a daughter, June 19. SYMPATHY To Francis A. Veit, Jr. on the death of his grandmother. 
To ABthooy G. Webber on the dea h of his father. 
1943 
Some time ^ o the following postcard was re­ceived from Joe Kresock (1830 W. 3rd St., Davenport, Iowa): *^Just a little note Co let you know that for the first time since I left ND have what I consider a permanent address. Maybe some of my old cronies will drop mc a line. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

I\-e been in Davenport a little over a month practidng Pediatrics.. * The local ND club is very active. Had a communion breakfast this A.M. Will try to find time in the near future to drop a letter." 
From Frrd Gore: *^For some time now I have been meaning to write yon of my visit with Joe Callaliam and Bill Neyers while traveling in the East last Fall; however, it's old nevvs now so I won't go into detail. Bill is residing in Oak Park, Illinois, and I am not sure tliat Joe Callahan is still in Washington. 
"You started something when you moved to Dallas. Not long ago my sister moved there and several others are planning the same in the near future. Must be some town. The Jaycees will 
•hold their national convention there next year, so it may be that I shall see you. 
"Speaking of the Jaycees, I sau- John (Rdbel) Lanahan at the national convention this year in Miami. He was on the bandwagon of the Flor­ida candidate for national president, as was our Illinois contingent, but, alas, we lost. John specifically asked to he remembered to all the boys in Chicago, as well as yourself in Dallas when I next wrote. 
"We are still holding forth at Toffenetti's ^(onroo Street restaurant every Wednesday at noon and lately have been drawing a pretty good . crowd. Bill Sullivan, Jack Barry, Bob KuipcrSj Ri^er Cummings, Qucntin Sturm, Wally Krawiec; these are the regulars, and we expect Tony Girolami, Mark Lies, and Ray Schbonoven to drop in occasionally. All others in the Chi­cago area are of course invited to drop in if they happen to be in the Loop at the time." 
Many thanks, Fred, for the letter. Joe Calla­han, as you had suspected, has left Washington. Joe writes: "rve just returned home from Wash­ington, D. C , where I spent seven months at the Institute of Languages and Linguistics at Georgetown University. I took an intensified course in Portuguese as an added qualification for prospects of employment in the South Amer­ican field. The course was really outstanding, but going to school five evenings a week plus holding a temporary job certainly kept mc chained to the grist mill. 
"I have several vcr>' good prospects for an­other foreign job and anticipate travelling to New York and Detroit during the coming weeks for personal interviews.'* 
Good luck, Joe, and }ct us have the word when you have landed the new position. 
We have heard that J. Morgan Greene is now selling for Dun and Bradstrect, and Buck Muell­man is selling in the Chicago area for a meat distributor. Bill Middendorf still lives in Fort Wayne, but now sells for Burroughs in that town. 
In the world of sports: local newspapers re­ported Bob Dove's signing again with the Chi-c:ago Cardinals football team. Bill Earley has been elected treasurer of the Notre Dame Na­tional Monogram Club. 
Don't foT^et now: this is the month you arc going to WTite that letter to this tired old secre­tary. Send it to me at 11401 Rupley Lane, Dallas 14, Texas. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. John L. ^^^ggins, a son, Thomai Charles, April 29. Thomas Lee Atkins was ordained a priest June 2. 
F. G. Feeney has been installed as president of the **Y" Toastmaster's Club of South Bend, Joseph A. Tracy has opened new law^ offices Indisma. From Paul A. Fisher: at 40 Wall St., New York. 
"... I am back in the Army again as a Second Lieutenant (Reservist, you know) and am going to Intelligence School at Ft. Holabird, Baltimore, Maryland. My wife and two chil­dren arc with me, so I actually have only about eight hours of Army routine ... " Paul's address is 6612 Woods Parkway, Dundalk 22, Afaryland. 
Lt. Harry A. Florence is stationed at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina and is presently on duty with the Fleet of the Mediterranean. His ad­dress is MOQ 3237, Camp Lejeune, N. C. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. John Neville Walsh, a daugh­ter, Deirdrc Ann, in Houston, Texas. 
July-August, 1951 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
ROBERT L. RIGLEY 

Bob Rigley, '30, Master Sergeant, Army of the United States (former) and wartime interpreter for the 1252 AAF Base Unit, European Theatre of Operations is presently Director of Public and Industrial Relations for Minute Maid. 
After graduating from Notre Same 
in 1930 he took a Master's Degree in 
languages at North Carolina U. 
In 1945 he married Miss Martha 
Jeanne LaSalle of Chicago. They live 
in Winter Park, Fla. 
1944 
From George BariscUlo: May I first thank you lads for the honor of electing me as your new class secretary*, and at the same time pledge to follow in the great tradition set by my predecessors, most recent of whom was Bill Talbot, and who, like the others, did such a magnanimous job keeping us all to­gether ' in spirit through the years. Bill spent countless hours at the task of seeking info to pass along and always came up with a praiie­worthy colunm. His efforts prDduci*d the only contact many of us have had wiih each other since parting, and your individual responses to his pleas for communiques were his only reu*ard. So, a big tip of the hat to a great guy! I only hope, with your assistance, to carry the ball half so well. The premise is dimply this: OUR CLASS COLUMN'S SUCCESS OR FAH.­URE DEPENDS ON YOU! Takes only a mo­ment to jot a few lines of data about yourself and those you've seen or heard from on a penny postcard and mail to your seaetary; why not do it now! The address is: 515 FifUi Ave­nue, Bradley Beach, New Jersey. ELECTION RESULTS . . . 
The slate of Class Officers elected recently includes: President: Dick Doermcr, 2108 Hoagland Rd.» Fort Wayne, Ind. Vice-Presidents (Re­gional): Mid-West: Dick A'Heara, 1730 Hennepin Ave., Minne^wlis, Minn.; east: Ed Dow&ff, 91-50 195th St., HoUis 7, L. I., N. Y.; south: Jim Crowley, 134 Cambridge Circle, Sparttn­burg. South Carolina; west: Toaa Skdhravtb, H I 14tlk Ave.,. Sam Fraacisco, Cab'f. Treasurer: Cra^Mam HSkr, e/o SIfller & Honibeck, Uoioa Conunercc BMg., Qevelaad, Ohio. YOUR SECRETARY REPORTS .. . 
That he was pleased to attend the First Class Secretaries' Coofcrence held at N D on June 7-8. It's an indescribable feeling one eiqwriences <m returning to the campus att^ a long absence— seeing the Dome once mon in all its radiant brilliance (been re-leafed, you know)—and the grotto, so calm and peaceful, truly an escape from the work, cares, and problems of every day. There were some visible canqius changes with two new buildings well on the way and two others about to be-started. And it was reunion weekend; the air was filled with nostalgia, aad the writer mused for'a moment at the thot^t of OUR big get-together three years hence. What a weekend that will be! 
But -getting back to the conference, the confab included talks and panel discussions on the problems facing class secretaries, primary among which is gathering class news. V^ou s scribes presented their individual solutions. -Maybe I'm wrong and perha{» still wet behind Uie cars at this job, but personally I don't believe oiir gang . needs prodding. Fraak "Tcx^* Crawler proves my point! **Tex" came through with the first unsolicited letter, reporting his new address as 5538 Richmond, Dallas, Texas, and reading as follows: 
"Turned envious by the recent visits up South Bend way of Bill Mahcmey, '45, and Jake Rcidb­emtcin, '42, and thoroi^hly shamed by my wife for failing to answer Bill Talbot's occasional requests for infonnation, I'm bound and deter­mined you'll get a letter if I can tiiink of nothing more interesting to say than just "howdy." Speaking of Mahoney, I know Walt Barim, "Squeak" GalbgWr and his many other buddies up that way will be glad to bear that Bill is thriving as an architect down here and already has more friends in these parts than us natives. He's taking vp more space than three people ou^ t to occupy in one of our town's slickest apartment hotels and he used some of it last week to throw a small cocktail soiree that would have put Sweeney's Shamrock bacJc in the ice cream and taffy business. Be asstured that all present heard the word on Notre Dame. Bill's the biggest booster outside the clergy. 
**Ton Hciiiky and his lovely wife have moved their brood into a Fort Worth (Dallas* least desirable suburb) home now and Tom's pushing B-36's at Carswell field there. 
"I mentioned Jake Rfidimstcin's recent trip, but for all the information he- brought back from South Beiui he'd have done well to have stayed home. Jake billed that journey as a business trip, but in a week's time he managed to catch 8 White SoK ball games, 2 days at the races and a trip to the campus. Needless to say, he didn't spend too much time in gathering straight dope—speaking of dope brings me back to Squeak Gallagher! 
"Down here we heard one rumor that he'd turned executive recently in a department store. Time, name, place, etc., unknown. Another authoritative report had him married. U he heard the same thing about me, I'll have to devote an entire letter direct to hun bragging^ about my luck in marrying a lovely Dallas girl, nee Martha Kim, sune two years ago. 
"I know Squeak broke his writing arm way back yonder but I'd greatly appreciate it if Jim Crowley, Jack HcrBhy, Walt Baib« or any of . Squeak's more literate cronies would write a word or two regarding him and all of the boys in the New York area." 
Thanks, "Tex," for rescuing thu first column from certain disaster. Now who's going to take up the baton from the Texan and prove again your columnist is right? BY THE BY . . . 
While at school I ran across an old pal, Jofai MorriKM, who is teaching Philosophy and wctfk­ing on his doctorate at ND, living in Vetville with his lovely wife, Coreen, and their three future Notre Damers. . . . Former Glee Clubbers will be pleased to know that "Dean" Fedtke et ux. were expecting No. 6. . . . And your sec'y had a very pleasant pbone conversation with . class prexy Didk ObcrBwr durii^ the ND aojoarm, at which time Dick and I lit the flame of the torch which blazes the foUowring mess^c 'croa the land and 7 seas: SEE YA' ALL AT THE TEN-YEAR REUNION" IN '54. The slogan's a bit trite, hut you get the idea. Surely one of you gents can come up with a catcli-all phrase which we might adopt as .our tom-tom battle­cr>- for the next three years in preparation and anticipation for the glorious *'IOth." Sugges­tions, please. Commerce-men who studied adver­tising at the Yacht Club have told me repetition is the key to success, so for the record and in case you missed it above, let mc repeat the clearinghouse address for news, info, criticisms, suggestions, and "beefs": 515 Fifth .Avenue, Bradley Beach, New Jersey, 
From Jack Woclfle: 
'*'. . . I am now associated with Repubh'c Aviation, the outfit that builds the F84 "Thun­derjet." Vm in the Planning and Scheduling Department. Prctt>' interesting work. See Charlie Ko^ler and Jack Dillon quite often. I **as with the hoys • while hustling the Henry J. AI Zuilo still doing vcr\- well, and Johnny Boyle is sell­ing insurance for the New York Life. . . . Frank King, '43, formerly of the "Strictly In­strumental" column in the Scholastic is now with .All State Insurance and setting records. He is also active in local dramatics." 
Norman Francis Mueller received an advanced degree from ^Vashington University. 
J. P. Maguire is a member of the .Arma En­gineering Division of the -Anna Corporation, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Joseph .A. Trzkcy has opened la»- offices at 40 Wall St., N. Y. 
Thomas F. Bremer is now practicing law under the firm name of Frost and Bremer, National City Bank Building, Cleveland, Ohio. 

Dave Curtin, who used to have singing leads in Gilbert and Sullivan back in '42, is now a radio announcer in Rochester, X. Y. 
Dr. \V. P. Ociss, Jr., is one of seven men in the U. S. who has received a fellowship of $5,000 for the study of arthritis from the Arth­ritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Last year his study and research on liver diseases were highly publicized and appeared in the *'Journal of Clinical Investigation." 
MARRI.AGES Eleanor O'Connor to Thomas James Conaty, June 9, in Riclimond, Virginia. Margaret Chillag to Louis Goretta, June 5, Notre Dame, Ind. BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Hagan, a son, James Patrick, June 13, in Kalispcll, Montana. Mr. and Mrs. Paul O'ConnclI, a son, Peter James, June 16, in Mt. Lebanon, Penns^•K-ania. 
Just received word from *44 classmate John .Anhut with information pertinent to the Detroit game. John writes, in part; 
"You know tlie miracle of miracles has hap­pened and dear old University of Detroit is to play host to Notre Dame this fall. As yet, not much has been said as to Iiow many of our gang will attend this game. I am taking it upon m\'self to set up a Notre Dame suite for the affair. I would greatly appreciate it if you would make mention of this in your column. 
"The suite will be located at the Hotel Im­perial which is centrally located and cas>- to reach. We will make sure that plent>' of re­freshments are available in good old ND fashion." 
Further information may be obtained by '44-ers if they will contact John \V. Anhut, NIanaging Director, .Anhut Hotels Company, 26 Pcterboro St., Detroit 1, Michigan. 
1945 
FIRST CL.ASS SECRET.ARIES CONFERENCE On, June 7 and 8 your secretary went out Notre Dame way to attend the University's First Class Secretaries' Conference, held simul­taneously with the meeting of the Alumni Board. I have come back more resolved than ever that the work we do to organize and keep ourselves in touch with each other is a truly worthwhile task. Your secretar>* learned a great deal out there about the workings of the Alumni Office and its always friendly people, about better ways of organization and most of all, that the prob­lem of getting copy for a column is universal. lu this last rfspect I am very proud because 
32 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOSEPH A. NAVARRE 

Recently appointed Insurance Com­missioner for the State of Michigan by Governor G. Mennen Williams, Joe Navarre has held a long list of gov­ernmental positions in that state. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1930 he practiced law in Muskegon and Monroe and was ap­pointed to fill a term as Prosecuting Attorney of Monroe County. He was also special counsel for the city of Monroe and Public Administrator for the County, and at times had served on the Circuit Court and Conciliation Commissions. 
He has resided in Jackson since 1948. 

As the first president of the Monroe Kiwanis Club he became interested in youth work and has been very active in Boy Scout circles and in pre-delin­
quent  work,  helping  to  establish  a  
municipal  recreation  department  in  
Monro3.  

Joe is married and has six children. 

lately our class has the highest percentage of correspondence. 
The conference, which was attended by most of the secretaries of the \'arious classes, began with an. address of welcome by Rc\*. John Ca\*anaugh, C.S.C., President of the University, at the opening lunclieon. Father Ca^-anaugh's friendly and informal talk was followed by a meeting in the Law Building in whicli Jim Armstrong spoke on the structure of tlie class organization, John Bums spoke on obtaining and preparing class news for the Alumnus, and Louts Buckly, one oi the originators of this secretzrles* conference, spoke on **The Care and Feeding of the Class Secretary-." 
In the evening, debate on various subjects was continued at a cocktail hour in the Lay Faculty Dining Room, followed by dinner. This ^vas followed by an after-dinner panel in which the class officer program w*as discussed. 
Friday morning your secretary* was up bright and early for an 8 a.m. breakfast session on reunion planning (rfurs is only 45 months away). Later in the morning we met in the Law Building for an open forum on secretary- mail­ings, lists and files, methods of getting news, and ''the varied problems and frustrations of the poor trampled class secrctar>'.'' 
The conference concluded with a luncheon summary of the several talks, resolutions, and proposals we made in those two days of con­densed, highly active meetings and debate. 
Your secretary came away from that con­ference extremely pleased with our '45 showing in comparison with other classes. But that small mai^in is not enough. We must continue in our serious work, striving to have the best class of all, and working toward a 10-year reunion which will be attended by practically all the members of our class. 
During the stay in that growing campus, I was proud to watch the laying of the corner­stone of the new Science Building, and saw most of the framework completed for the Mor­risscy Inn. I talked to and sau' many whose names arc all Notre Dame—men like Father Forrestal, Father Norton, Father Gar\in, Father Bolgcr, Father Hcsbur^, Brother Columba, Jak^ Kline, McAllister, Ray Schubmchi, Dean Schocnherr, Henry Hinton and Henry Mc-LcUan. 
The class of *46 had its five-year reunion during the same weekend and there were many familiar faces around the campus. Frank Paul­son, John Pbwers, Elmer Angsman, James ^fc-Carthy, and Don Lundergan are a few of the gang I was truly glad to see. 

DID YOU KNOW THAT: James Lcndergan Lamb is practicing law with Degnan and Hager in Grand Forks, North Da­kota . . . that he is married and has a scven­month-old son, James Lawrence . . . that Jim went back to Notre Dame for his Law Degree, which he reccvicd in May 1950 . . . that he x'isited the campus last year for a football game, where he met Bob Drummond and his wife. Gene Mathe%»3, and John Dunlc%*y '51 . . . that on the same trip he saw Mark Cronin in Chi­cago . . . that William A. Clarke, Jr., is a med!c:al resident at St. Rita's Ho:pitaK Lima. Ohio . . . that he interned in Albany Hospital, Albany, New York during 1946-1947 . . . that from 1947 to 1949 Bill was with the Army of Occupation in Germany . . . that he had been back on the campus for several of the football games . . . that he writes that Fred Maurcr, Jr., was also at St. Rita's Hospital until Janu­ary of this year as a resident, but that he has since gone to St. Vincent's Hospital in Toledo . . . that Pat Filley is starting his seventh year soon as .Assistant Football Coach at Cornell University . . . that Pat is married and that he and his wife. Ruby, have a two-ycar-o(d girl, Anne Lynnc, and a half-year-old boy. Kevin Patrick . . . that Pat has visited his home town of South Bend several times since gradua­tion and has noticed especially all the new building on the campus . . . that Bud Bocr­inger, '26, is also at Cornell as head line coach . . . that Thomas L. Brundage has his own business in San Antonio, Texas, the Brun­dage Oil Company — Ser\-e Yourself Gasa­teria, Inc. . . . that Tom is married, and that he and his wife, Clara, have a little I'/^-ycar­old boy, Thomas O'Brien Brundage . . . that Tom had dinner wtih Frank Culhane about three months ago in Chicago . . . that any of Tom's old friends who go down Texas way, or who are on their way to Mexico, are invited to stop off and sec him and his family . . . that Warren A. Carticr is working as an insur­ance adjuster for the E. A. McMillan Claims Scr\-icc in Denver, Colorado, since October, 1950 . . . tha: AVarrcn has worked in New York, in New Jersc>% and in Anchorage, Alaska, since his graduation, from Notre Dame . . . that he re­ceived his degree in Mechanical Engineering in IW7, and then spent a year at Micliigan State . . . that he is in the bachelor ranks and likes Colorado so much that he is going to stay there permanently . . . that EdH-ard H. Ball, Jr., is with the AUis Rubber Corporation a3 Production Kfanager . . . that he was back for the N.R.O.T.C. Reunion on campus in 1949 . . . that Ed is married, and that he and his wife, Nancy, live in Northfield, Illinois . . . that our class of *45 is inviting any and all 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

'43crs or anyone who wants to be considered as the class of *45, to drop me a card with their present address so that they can be added to our mailing list . . . that the next issue depends on YOU for newSf and that YOU alone can help out by dropping AI a card right away. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT: From Phil Martin: "Got your letter last week. My folks re­cently sold their ranch at Santee, and so there was some delay. Should have written you a long time ago, but just keep putting it off. **Dick Martin is teaching in town. He lives ac 2467 £ Street, San Diego, California. If you or any of the gang come this way, be sure to drop in. I hope to make the lO-year reunion, so we'll sec each other then. 
"Just got a u'edding announcement sayini; Dr. 
John A. Arcadi is marr>'ing Miss Doris Maretta 
in Baltimore, Maryland." 
From L« n Larocque: 
"Guess the title of 'world's worst correspond­ent' i;: mine, but I'm not too proud of it. May tht': be the beginning of the reformation. 
"The father of the girl I was engaged to became ver>* ill about three weeks before our wedding, so we postponed it. He started to improve during July of last year after an operation so we rescheduled the wedding for .August 19. He then had a rclansc and passed p.way on July 30. Wc went ahead with the plan-, on n much smaller scale and were married on the 19th. 
"Went to New York State for a flyin" h'^n-v­moon, got as far as Lake Placid and headed back. I had one week's vacation and had to be in West Branch for another wedding th^r nfct i»*eekend. ^Vc are started on a family aVcady, so it looks as is this year's vacation will be spent walking the floor. Rather than you show­ing us New York, how about us showing you Detroit? This is an invitation! 
"Read the last Alumnus and 5a\%' the co'­umn . . . read all about Paul Smith and Chuck Sortore and so many of the fellows. le seems good to read about them all. As for me, I'm still with Ford Motor in the Experimental Sec­tion. The work is most interesting, but I'm becoming more interested all the time in some small business of my own. I have definite capitalistic ambitions. Give my regards to the gang." 
From Moi^an Cartier: 
"Picked up the current Alumnus and was happy to learn of the whereabouts of so many of the old gang. Would like to know what happened to some of the rest of them. Too bad there aren't reunions every year. 
"I am still in the single state of life but have as nice a little Irish girl as you can imagine. So if the Navy leaves me be, I don't expect to remain a bachelor too much longer. Speaking of the Navy, I was called last Febru­ary* and as^t'-ned ?s Execi't-v^ Offir-r of r* Seabce Battalion overseas. However, since that time they have found that I have a hearing defect (ser\-icc incurred) which is totally sus­ceptible to gunfire and loud noises. So here I am at home, on inactive duty, still waiting for them to lower the axe again. They have me before a medical board; if I flunk. I'll be out of the Na\T; if not. I'll be reis^igned. 
"As far as civilian occupations are concerned, I have spent most of my time since ND work­ing with oil production companies. I have been tWth Carter Oil, Superior Oil, and Rex OiL I've done ever>'thing in the o'l production busi­ness from working on a rig to making oil leases. Finally wound up as a kind of a mongrel production petroleum engineer. Since I graduated in Civil at ND I had to learn the petroleum engineering the hard way, from the boys in the field. Believe me, when they teach you. you stay taught!! 
'"Since the Na^y has been running my lUc the past few months I have not been engaged in the oil business, which is a good thing. Michi­gan is rapidly becoming dry, and some of the companies arc moving back' to Texas and Okla­homa. For example, in the last three months my company has drilled 27 dry holes compared with two wet ones. An impressive record, don't you think! So if you know of any young lads 
July-August, 1951 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
WALTER H. JOHNSON, JR, 

Walter H. Johnson, Jr., '39, has been 
elected secretary of American Airlines, 
Inc., and assistant to the president. 
At 34 he is one of the youngest executives in the airline industry. For the past two and a half years he has been vice-president of the airline's eastern region, the largest and most productive in air transportation, em­bracing ten states and Canada. 
Johnson joined American in 1940 shortly after receiving his Bachelor of Arts Degree. During the war he served on the staff of the commander of the Third Marine Air Wing in the Pacific. 
Back with American after the war, he helped in the development of the company's extensive air cargo business and was elected vice-president eastern region in 1948. As such he directed the passenger and cargo sales effort of large staffs in thirteen cities including New York, 
His w-ife is the former Marcelle Rheaume of Holyoke, Mass. They have two children, Eegina, 4, and Walter 
H. Johnson, III, 3. They make their home in Pleasantville, N. Y. 
who want to come out here to get into the oil business, send them by way of Bill 0*NeiI and Jim Cassclman in Texas as I believe they will do just a bit better. 
"Well, Al, I guess l*m up to date now, but if you Iiavc word of some of the ether boys, send it on. Best to all of you." 
From Joe Mencz: 
"This b my first letter to you or, for that matter, to any class scca-etary . . . and I know it's ABOUT TIME!! It was the May-June issue which made mc sit down immediately. Needless to say, I enjoy the comments from the class although, to be quite frank, some names simply don't regntcr. I must find a *45 Scho­lastic which, I believe, contains the class pic­tures and in this way I can recall some of the men. (Joe, the class of '45 connsts of all men graduated in 1945, abo those who came back to finish in other years but who m^ t prefer to be in their starting class, and all those who left before graduation—Al) 
"In brief, here is the Menez story. I'm married to the *gal' I dated while I was at ND; Charlene Knocrzer was her maiden name. Sev­eral of the class knew her well, cqiecially Mike Manai. 
"We have a baby boy, Martin Charles, no connection .with Martin Kennelly or St. Martin de Porres. After looking over what seemed to be thousands of names 1 put my finger on that one and the poor kid is stuck with it for life. 
"In June '46 I got my AJA. in Political Science and then went to the University of Detroit's Department of Political Science where I stayed until June 1947. Then I moved to Loyola University, Chicago, where I've been ever since. 
"Last September I became a candidate for the doctorate at ND and am now writing my dissertation on *A Constitutional and Political Comparison of the Executive Office m Latin American and in the United States.' I don't know* when I will be finished. I just go plug­ging along. 
"I've been doing some writing, articles and boo': reviews and, occasionally, lectures, espe­cially in the field of foreign relations. But this is the extent of my labors. 
"I wan'ed to attend the reunion but summer school was just beginning and I couldn't get away. Next time will be different!! 
"One of my friends. Dr. Paul Uetz of the History Department was sent to Peru last mm-mer by the state department. I contacted Henry LulK in Peru and he was very kind in enter­taining him. I've heard from Henry. This reminds me that I must write him again. I sure would like to hear from any of the fellows, especially Mike Manzo, Gctnrge Despot and Father Mark McGiath. Is the John Bresnahan who is in the Mass. Legblature the same John Bresnahan who was very much interested in medicine? (Yes) Will Brock Lyndi please write me? Several months ^ o I met his brother on the campus and we had a long talk. 
"Enough for now, Al. If you make otie of 
those quickies to Chicago again, won't you con­
tact me?" (Sure will, Joe—and best regards 
to you—Al) 
From Tom Bcr|^: 
"Regarding information concerning South Bend 
Alumni, I actually have little contact with them 
—the old case of not being able to see the trees 
beyond the forest. My contact is principally 
with those right here at Notre Dame rather 
than in South Bend. 
"However, I am trying to make an effort in 
connection with class neve's items. I know it is 
important and the type of thing which is neces­
sary for the successful coordination of the class 
of '45's activities, and you can count on me. 
"Nothing much new regarding myself at this 
time.'' 
From Geoi^ Despot: ".\s always, I'm the poor correspondent. It seems that there must alw^ays be those who corre­spond and those who do not. Frrm what I have gathered, you and I fall into the category of those who do correspond, but you are a scrupulous cor­respondent and I am an unscrupul'-us correspon­dent. In your letter you menti~n~d the p'»ssibint^ of taking a law course at Fordham. I don't know just what your plans are, but I would like to urge you to have a try at it. Whether you plan to practice or not is incidental for you can use your knowledge every single day in your own ordinary affairs. Pep talk!! 
**I believe that you may remember Corwin Clalt—Corwin and Marvin (who isn't an ND man) have managed to get the Milter's Beer dis­tributorship in Shrcveport. The inside informa­tion was that they dichi't have a chance to buck the established market here, but they put their respective noses to the malty grindstone and have a fine business on their hands now." 
**Cieorge Deqiot is doing well too. He b opening new offices next month on a new Fwe­
33 
Year Plan. Business is good—there are some regular clients—best of all, a little oil work turned up. 
"Well, I'd better get back to work. Let me hear from y'all again." 
YOUR SECRETARY REPORTS: Class organization has taken a big step for­^\'ard by choosing a nominating committee and sending them the names of all the men of the class. In the next issue the slate vnll be an­nounced, and ballots will be mailed out to you —so get ready for that all-important vote. See you next issue. Your class secretary-: M Lesmez 61-56 82 Street, Elmhurst, X. Y. Dr. Harold £. Enithom, associate professor of electrical engineering at ND^ has been named to the committee on wire communications s>'stcms in the communications division of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. A letter from the Pcnn Mutual Life Insur­ance Company tells of the success of Richard 
J. Ames: 
"It is said that bad news travels fast. We beliex-e good news will tra\*el just as fast, if only it is giwn a start. We Penn Mutual as­sociates of Ridiard J. Ames want *o do Ff^mc bragging about him, and we think we have plenty of reason for doing so. 
"Dick, who joined the company's sales or­ganization last November, ranked second among the whole nation-u^de field force in new business placed on the books during the month of May,.. 
"^Ve, his associates, know him as a grand companion, a ser\'ice-minded life insurance coun­selor who has the true professional concept, a devoted husband and father, and a swell guy." 
Having been awarded a fellowship. Dr. James Cocmey is studying at the Mayo Clinic, Roches­ter, XHnn. 
Thomas C. Pudmer is studying to be a Ka\'al "Flight Surgeon" at Pensac^la. Fla. 
ENGAGEMENTS Doris Elisabeth Wolf to Frank J. Curran, Jr. Mary Ann Owens to John C. Treacy. Patrice A. McAllister to Francis Mitchel Gniaey. MARRIAGES Ann Mai^erite Whclan and Harry J. ^Val­tes, Jr., June 30, In New York. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Ridiard Jerome Ames, a son, Theodore Hobart, April 16. 
1946 
From M. E. Cartier, Jr.: ".. . Up until the present time I have been employed by an oil company doing petro­leum engineering work, also legal and land title work. The oil game is a fast and tough one, but the rewards are great if you are there for the payoff. I didn't learn by the book method but came up the tough way by learning from the grizzled veterans in the field. Did a stint on an oil rig for a while to learn the me­chanics, then graduated to the office, thence to office mans^er. The office routine finally got me and I was sent back to the field in a little more style than the first time—with a company car, typeuxlter and tons of blank leases, deeds, report blanks, etc. So I finally reached a happy medium, that is, an office on wheels. I enjoyed the work very much although there ivas con­siderable traveling most of the time. The men you meet in this business are tough, most with­out schooling, but a great many are willing to help and guide one at any time. 
Now, howe^'cr, I have a new job with Uncle Sam which, of course, I didn't request but was forced upon me. I have been assigned to the Naval Mobile Construcrtion Battalion Four which is a newly commusloned battalion with home base at Da%isville,- R. I., and presently Is lo­cated at the Naval Base in Bermuda doing construction work and repair. It is a mobile outfit which moves from place to place, am­phSiious based, with an occ:asional trip home to Davis\'ille for refitting and rest. So \'6u see I am now with one of the bluest construction (»mpanles in the world ... " 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOHN G. JAEGEE 

"Jack" Jaeger has been appointeil western field supervisor for Harriet Hubbard Ayer products. Nelson Mil­lard, general sales manager, made the appointment. 
Jack is a 1933 AB graduate of the University and was married in 1945 to Gloria Connelly in San Francisco. He served in the South Pacific as a Navy warrant officer. 
He was assistant sales manager for Revlon Products before joining the Ayer corporation and has had many years' experience in the cosmetics field. 
The father of two daughters and a son, he resides in New York. 
John T. Olire sends word that he has a 
fellowship at the Mayo Clinic and is working for 
his Master in Pediatrics from the University of 
Minnesota. He is the father of t%vo children. 
The Rev. Midiael J. O'Connor has been as­signed to the Prefecture of Taichung on For­mosa. Since last September Father O'Connor has been stationed in Hong Kong. Originally assigned to teach at Lignan University in Can­ton, he was refused a permit to enter the Chinese mainland by Communist ofScials. 
Dr. Edmund Denefe, who graduated from Creighton University in June, is now stationed at the Statcn Island Marine Hospital, Staten Island, K. Y. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Aidyi D. Van Stavem, a son, Paul Dean, May 9, in Evanston, Illinois. To Mr. and Mrs. John H. Graif, a daughter, Julie Ann, June 9, in Mankato, Minnesota. 
1947 
CtintoQ D. Firestone, Jr., has been promoted to temporary rank of major in the Air Force and is asugned to the office of deputy for ma­terial. Air Defense Command Headquarters, Ent Air Force Base, Colorado Springs, Colorado. Maj. Firestone and his wife with four children live at 31 Cheyenne Boulevard, Colorado Springs, 

Colorado.. Blajor Firestone u-as in service dur­ing Worid War II and holds the Distinguished Flying Cross, Purple Heart, Air Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters, the Presidential Unit Ciu­tkm and other various ribb3ns and battle scars'. 
L. COM ^-as au-arded the Monroe sdiolarshqr of the Graduate School of Theology at Oberlia College for maintaining the highest cumulative grade average during graduate u'crk of the. senior class. He is now engaged in graduate study at Drew University where he was awarded, a fcllowsh^ 'for 1931-52. He is a graduate asustant to Dr. John Patterson, profes­sor of Old Testament history. Tburman and his wife and daughter are aow living in Madison, New Jersey. 
Fatkcf WUliaK D. Curtis sends word that he is at the Mayo Clinic and enjoys, making con­tact with any N D alumni. ". , . Because Rochester is made up of so many transients, it is hard to really organize a Notre Dame Club." Father Curtis* address is 415 First Street South* west, Rochester, Minnesota. 
Several *47 men have received advanced de­grees. . . ^miiam Leo Berk received his master of saence in ovU engineering from the Univer­sity of Minnesota in March . . . Nick .Anthony Viacdli recehred his master of social work from the Universtiy of Minnesota in June . . . AiorniB L. Kuntz graduated from the School of Medicine of Tulane University June 5 . . . Janes E. VaDdeiboscfa received his M.D. from Loyola University in June . . . Edward J. Folitodce graduated from Temple University June 14. 
From Bin Basset: 
**It's been a long time since you've heard 

-from the duo of GiUiDoly and Hasset. Well, this is the latter part of the act. After five years of pro baskeU>all I have decided to quit and settle down in business. I'm now connected with the trucking, business with my biother. Buddy. We cover the states of New Jersey and upstate Ncu- York .. . my address is 257 Holly­wood Drive. Trenton, N. J. . . . " 
Bin Gamer is at the University of Pennsyl­vania graduate school in surgery. Next year he is going to Crite Clinic in Cleveland. 
From Bin Dunn: 

"It is with great pleasure that I am able to report my acceptance to a fellowship In medicine at the Mayo Clinic in October, 1952. 
"We are in YokfKuka, Japan, repairing de­stroyers. I have seen many classmates sUtioned hero in the large Navy hospital or on the many sfa^K that put in here. Most of the Korean .. Marine and Navy casualties are sent to this ho^ital. . Jack McLaghlin has been with the marines in Korea for months. Fred C. Dicck­maim is a medical officer on temporary duty hero .. . I hope to return home next fall and look forward to a visit to ND . . . ** 
Ja" " R- Maiar is working on his mastei's degree in music at DePauI University. 
Thomas J. Mangaa, Jr., Is enrolled In the American Institute for Foreign Trade, Thunder­bird Field, Phoenix, Arizona. 
MARRIAGES Joan Elaine Hitchncr to John C. Noonan, Jr., June 23, in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Mary Cuff to Jos ^ H. Dittricb, June 2, in Garden City, N. Y. Barbara LiU to Jim Murphy, &(ay 19, In Fort Wayne, Indiana. Patricia Louise Counlcy to i.eonard J. Ei^en-Buw, June 16, in Sterling, Colorado. 
ENGAGEMENTS Jo Anne Walther and William J. Jann. 
BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. Raymond W. Gudmens, a son, James Raymond, Kfay 2, in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Jia Kicii, a drum major when he was in school, sends Jim Armstrong this note: "Con­gratulitions to the • Coach and to the Music Department—the coadi for the fine addition to fab home-gnmm staff and to the Music Depart­ment for the fine TV entertainment they gave on the "Toast <rf the Town" progiani. 

1948 
William O. Hancock has been appointed voca­tional agricultural instructor at Ahvood High School, Kewanee, Illinois. 
Rtul D. Jackson has been working for the Red Cross since 1946. Recently he conducted a class in Red Cross first aid in South Bend. 
Hu ^ Sullivan is returning from Woodbur>% 
N. J., where he has been associated rfith So­cony-Vacuum to join the Eli Lilly and Com­pany of Indianapolis. 
Louis A. Sampson is in the army at Camp Gordon, Georgia. His address is Pvt. Louis A. Sampson, U.S. 53016654, Co. "C" 5(MtIi ALP. Bn., Camp Gordon, Georgia. 
William Hoban b in the Navy but sends word 
that he hopes to settle down in San Diego snon. 
Edward Duke's mother sends word that he is 
stationed at Camp Gordon, Georgia. 
Gerald Schroering, Jr., is in the Medical Corps of the Air Force at Randolph Field, Texas. He has a new son, Stephen Patrick, who was born April 6. While in Texas lie has seen Several ND alumni including Capt. Bernard O'Hara and Father Dayberry, C.S.C. 
William Hanison Russell, diaries A. TuIIev, Jr., and Samuel Van Dyke Smith have attended the University of Pittsburgh's one-year s*^duiitc school of retailing to prepare for executive posi­tions in the retailing field. 
Robert H. Percival was sent to Dearborn, Michigan, to attend a short course at the Ford Motor Company's Merchandising School for spe­cial training for field managers to > tudy Ford Methods in business management, sales and service. 
Bruce E. Hill has received his doctor of philos­ophy degree from Ohio State University. 
From Western Reserve University John Arthur Thorpe i n received his Bachelor of Laws. 
MARRIAGES Afarion Moss and ^Roy Lang, in Chicago, III. Anna Marie Junkerman and Dr. Robert E. Lee, June 16, in Oak Park, Illinois. Mary Patricia Johnson and George Link OI­^•any, June 16, in Valley Stream, L. I., N. Y. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Kerger, a son, Gregory Allen, July 14, in Chicago, Illinois. To Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Deegan, a son, Robert, Jr., June 4, in New York. 
1949 
Ste%'e Galla writes, "John Gariepy, '50, is really in love u-ith the set-up at Yale and seems to be real eager about it. Bob Tufano is having a tough time at Long Island U. John Arcadi, '47, has been appointed assistant resident in urology for the coming year. (The nurscj have nicknamed him Dr. "Orchitis.") Nadine and Dave Moncr, '48, are now the parents of a baby girl. Ralph Thorson is busy working on his Ph.D. thesis. . . . It's very hard to believe that I'm almost half way through med. school ... " 
John Klempay has an engineering jt^ with the Bendix Home Appliance organization in South Bend. 
Carlos Corona is now with the Associates 
Investment Company, South Bend. 
Dave Tolly has finished the Kroger training program and is manager of the Kroger Store in Williamson, West Virginia, his home town. 
From Louis £ . Black: 
"Since October, 1950, I have been a sales representative for Bendix Aviation Corporation. I contact the Aviation Supply Office in Phila­delphia, Pa., for Bendix." 
Ray Zink is in the Army now helping a Captain write a book - on the Arctic. His ad> dress is U. S. 55010055, Hq. Co. 1st Scfa. Bn. T.E.C.R., Fort Belvoir, Virginia. 
Salvatore S. Nigra is at the Kansas City University of Law and had a visit from Bob Sin^f who is stationed at Fort Riley, Kansas. 
Fnmds J. Rudden is with the Fire Insur­ance Rating Organization of New Jersey. 
P\-t. Patrick J. Conklin's new address is 
July-August, 1951 
Bernard J. Endres, a Junior in the UmvcrsitT Pre-Medical School, who is the winner of tbis year's Cleveland Club Award to "the most de­serving student of the University." He is tbc son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold Endres, 3495 Ediaoa Road, Cleveland Heights. 
US 55051775, Co. D, 279 Infantry, A.P.O. 86, San Francisco, California. 
Walter S. Anderson, Jr., received his Master of Science from Harvard University last spring. Marilyn R. Means will be married to Verling 
W. Copeland August 17. 
ENGAGEMENTS Margaret Louise Bauman to John C. Clyncs. 
MARRIAGES Elizabeth Susan Corley and Merritt J. Laskoske, June 13, in Jackson, Michigan. Sally Crcssy and Charles M- Woods, June 23. at Notre Dame. Frieda Nagy and James Brian ^fcCarthy, May, in South Bend. Marie Costoff and Martin Zemick, June 2, in South Bend. Marie A. Cercek and Paul A. Corey, June 16, in Lakewood, Ohio. BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. John R. Brennan, a son, Thomas Francis, June 5, in Bedford, Indiana. To Mr. and Mrs. George H. Stnhr, Jr., a daughter, Kathleen Marie, May 6, in Bronklyu, 
N. Y. To Mr. and Mrs. Richard Donald HowcU, a 
son, Richard Donald II, March 27, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
1950 
News of alumni from Dayton, Ohio—Bad Imbus is in Cincinnati Medical School; Loa Haley is at Ohio Sute's Medical School. Jobs Wbalcn is with the L. M. Berry Co., temporar­ily operating out of Milwaukee, and Frank McBride, Jr., is in the steel fa^isiness with his father. Joe Nemetb is in the army stationed at Fort Knox. 
James E. Tniscbel, Verona, Pennsylvania, is 
The ALUMNUS erroneously re­ported Elmore C. Smith, '50, as entering studies for the priesthood. 
The Smith named should have been Jacob L. Smith, ssmie class. 
Elmore C is a Lieutenant in the First Marine Division, on the way to Korea. He stopped in at the Alum­ni Office in July to say so. 

assistant sales correspondent with Harbison 
Walker Refractories Co. From Jobs J. Elfiott; *'. . . A year a^o I started out as a clerk 
in the F.B.I. and now I am in training as a Special Agent of the F.B.I. ... " 
Robert £ . Kane's new address is Western Electric Company, 2525 Shadeland Ave., Indian­apolis, Ind. 
James A. Scdbold, Jr., is with COHU & Co., Newark, New Jersey. 
Joha J. McDottag^ is employed at the Youngs­town Sheet & Tube Company, Indiana Harbor, Indiana, in the mill as an inspector. 
Tboons P. DallMaa is purchasing agent for the Badger Glove & Slipper Company, Milwau­kee, Wisconsin. 
Francis VaB of St. Louis, has become a mem­ber of the production depa-tmf*nt of Mio^anto Chemical Company's John F. Queeny plant. 
Mr. Pall b a native of Turola, Roumania. H= received a diploma in chemical engineering £rom Techniche Hochschule, Brunn, Czechoslovakia. He also holds an M.S. degree in chemical engineer­ing from Notre Dame. 
He was previously employed by the Socony Vacuum Company, Almasfuzito, Hungary, where he was engaged in engineering, and by UNRRA, in the U. S. Zone of Germany, where he served as an assistant maintenance officer. 
SYMPATHY To Frands A. Pdno on the death of his mother, June 4. 
ENGAGEMENTS Mary Komick to Bennrd L. Thomas. 
MARRIAGES Winifred Greenwood and Robert G. Thompson, June 30, in Mishawaka, Indiana. Mary Margaret Mudd and Jack McHale in Saginaw, Michigan. Mary Patricia Fecley and Jack Tbomtoa, -March 10, -at Notre Dame, Indiana. Patricia Czolgosz and Raymood Steiner in South Bend. Ann Patrice Patterson and Fred John Hdmcn, May 12, in South Bend, Indiana. Margaret Mary Miller and Walter Frauds Zenoer, June 16, in South Bend, Indiana. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Sepkoski, a daugh­ter, Carol Marie, May 12, in Union, N. J. 
1951 
Bob WiUiams will play ia the All-Suu- football game August 17, when collegians meet Clevelaad Browns in Soldiers Field, Chicago. 
ENGAGEMENTS Nonna Lou Dance to Janes W. Hartmaa. Patricia L. Blackburn to tUdianl L. Totncr. Marilyn McManus to Hidiard D. SaaU. Rosemary Schwab to Jobs H. JaaowsU. Mary Ouol Miles to Cfcaifas Kcngieter. Joanne Marie Orr and CSlaries A. Rotb plan to 
marry in August. 
MARKIAGES Helen C. Getzinger and Carl F. Strebngcr, May 5, in South Bend. Mary Joan Riordan and Jeraae Mark Lcboc, June 23, at Notre Dame. Jane Anne Jones and Edward V. CnbOer, June 5, at Notre Dame. Mary Jean Zalesak and Joba K. Woitbiagtlia. June 5, at Notre Dame. Joanne H . Wack and Raymoad J. Gaas, June 16, at South Bend. Marian Kaszas to DouM K. Tnns, June 9, in South Bend. Francis Jane ZoUer and Lamuc e S. May, Jr., June 16, in South Bend. Josephine Kalil and Jobn F. Crccvey, June 16, in Misha%iraka, Indiana. Nanette Marie Regard and Frederick W. Baaa­gnrtner, June 9, in South Bend. Rosemarion Bink and Ridiard M. McCoaadl, June 2, at Notre Dame. 
Ur. Edssfard J. Tracey Jr. 1227 Old Boaloburg Rd., State College,, Pa. 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—Wiocmi—Glenn J. McDonousli, '32, 1807 W. GininhcII. ruMon-Timothy R. King, '37, 1620 Linden Ave. 
ARKANSAS—Fori Smith—B. DuVal Johnston, '37, 925 Garrison. 
CALIFORNIA—Las .rlnj«/M—Benjamin F. A!e.tan­der, '34, 5800 Lemp St., North HoIlJ^vood, Calif. Bakcrsficld—(In process)—BjTon J. Coleman, *40, secretary-treasurer, Bakersiield SaWngs & Loan Association. IG12 20lh St. Northern—George E. Thomas, '37, 2701 Durant Ave., Berkeley. San Ojo—Winficid S. Day, '36, Rt. 1. Bo.'c 817, LaMesa. 
COLORADO—I>£ii.-w—Robert J. Fl>Tin, '49, 536 
E. First Ave. 
CONNECTICUT—Conncrticul Valley — John E. L>-nch, Jr., '35, 180 Woodrow St., West Hartford. Southwestern—Nicholas A. Lanese, '37, 1675 Iranistan Ave., Bridgeport. 
DEL.\WARE—Arthur A. Baum, '36, 223 Cham­plain Ave., Bellemoore. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Paul C. TuIIy, '39, 3306 Camalier Lane, Chev7 Chase, Md. 
FLORIDA—Crra/^r .flfiomi—Faris N. Co»-art, '34, 1803 S.W. Rth St..Miain;. Fort Lcttderdale—John C. Sullivan, '31, 1600 
S. E. Uth St. North I'lorida—John F. Lanahan, '43, P.O. Box 1697. Jndaonvillc. 
GEORGIA—^//on/o-Williani E. Beclclev, '34, 3249 Wood Valley Rd., N. W., Atlanta.' ID.AHO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—C«n(ra/ /Ufnoii-John L)-naugh, '39, 318 State House, Springfield. CAiVojo-Alfred C. Stephan, Jr. '31, 548 Maple St., Winnetla, 111. Eastern Illinois—Jobn Meyer, '42, 1314 Frank­lin, Dan\*il!e. Fox Valley—GcoTSC R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Sum­mit, Elgin. Joliet-Kankakee—Arthur Smith, Jr., '48, R.D. No. 2. Peoria—James Kelly, '43, 712 Butler St. Rock River Valley—R. Gerald Jones, '22, 706 
E. Fclloivs St., Dixon. 
INDIANA—Codimc/ D/V/rirt—William J. Riley, '33, 4C0I Indianapolis Blvd., East Chicago, Ind. Eastern Indiana—William S. MacDonald, '27, Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Munde. Fort (C<r>7ie—Edu-ard J. Disscr, '39, 2501 So. Webster St. lndianattolis—Thom3s XL Fitzzgerald, Jr., '38, 124 E. 49lh St. Michigan Ci"/)'—Walter A. Timm, '50, 201 Lake Ave. St. Joseph Valley—Robert A. Holmes, '30, 422 Nilcs Ave.,' Mishau-aka. Tri-State {Ky., Ind. & III.)—Raxtnond G. Ziliak, '3D, Haubstadt, Ind. Wabash Valley—W. W. Rungc, '39, 408 W. 
Market St., Crawfordsville. IOWA—i}« Moines—F. Marcellus Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hubbell BIdg. Dubuque—^Robert H. Kenline, '35, 418 Bank & Insurance BIdg. Tri-Cilies ' (Davenport, Rock Lsland, Molinc. 
E. Moline)—Franic T. McGuire, '37, 1323 22nd Ave., Rock Island, III. Sioux-Land—lLA\v:ui Simonich, '39, 1605 Main St., Siou.x City. 
KANSAS—^Eai/crn—Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arrh .St.. Leavenworth. KE.NTUCKY-Pierre V. Angermeler, '31, 2308 Gkidstonc, Louis\'ille 5. 
LOUISIANA—-Vcu; Or.'canj—Tliom.Ts F. McM.ihon, 
'29. 624 Gra»i--r .«;t. Northern' Louisiana—^James R. Nowcrj-, '29, P.O. Box 15:5, Shrcvcport 94. 
MARYLAND—BoWmorc — John G. Prendergast, '30, 1044 Mathieson BIdg. 
MASSACHUSETTS—CoJ/oh—John C. Bresnahan, 
•'45, 218 Bailey St., Lawrence; itass. Pioneer Valley—John F. Shea, '06, 95 Lexing­ton Ave., Holyoke, ^lass. 
MICHIGAN-Crrricn Coun/j^William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Nilcs. Blue Water B/KnVl-William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O.
 Box 295, Port Huron. Central—T>t. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow I.ansing. DMriorn—Eugene W. Rheaume, '29, 24127 Rockford. D<r/rol/—James N. Motschall, '39. 233 Ken­wood Ct., Grosse Point 30, Midi. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—George 

A.
 Jackoboice, '31, 327 Front Ave. N.W., Grand Rapids 4, Midi. Hiawatha'and—^Joseph .\. Lauerman, '31, 1940 Stephenson St., Marinette, Wis. Iron Range—Rab^tt T. O'Calbghan, '45, 635 AIcLeon Ave., Ironwood. //onroe-Thomas E. Griffin, '33, 205 E. Third 


- Street.. Saginaw Valley—VauX A. Brj'ssclbout, '29, 1400 Cornell St., Bay City. 
MINNESOTA—7\fin " Ci/i«—Ray A. Thibodeau, '31, Builders E.\change, 338 Hamin BIdg., St. Paul 2. Dulutli-Superlor-Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St.. Dnitith. 
MISSOURI — Kanjoj City—(Mo. and Kans.) Thomas E. Oakes, Jr., '31, 4508 W. 74th PI., . Mission, Kansas. St. Louis—John P. StiHivan, '39, 908 Abbey Lane, University City 24, Mo: 
MONTAN.\—Bernard Graincyi '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. . 
NEBRASKA—Robert D. Welsh, '26, 959 S. 48th St., Omaha 6. 
NEW JERSEY—PhiHp J. Heinle, '35, 499 Ridge-wood Rd., Maplewood. Cenlrol-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. South Jersey^Vakntinc B. Deale, '39, RCA Victor Div. 15-3, Camden, N. J. 
NEW YORK—Bu#o/o—Maurice : F; Quinn, . '37, 1919 Kensington Ave., Buffalo 21. Capital District—^Andrew M. Pinckney, '41, 14 Cirde Lane, Albany. 
Central—John H. Terry, '45, 158 Robincau Rd., S^Tacusp 4. Mid-Hudson Valley^Ucnry J. Fischer, '34, 197 E. Chester St., Kingston. Mohawk Valley—^Edward J. Sweeney, '30, 133 Addington PI., Utica. 
New York Citj'—James G. McGoldrick, '39, 325 E. 41st St., N. Y. 17. Northern—^Joseph R. Brandy, '21, St. LawTence Broadcasting Corn.. Cgdensburg. N. Y. Rochester—Arnold B. Morrison, '35, 581 Beach Ave., Rochester 12. Schenectady—^William G. Leonard, Jr., '49, 1046 Baker Ave. Southern Tier-Edu-in Bonham, '09, 329 Hamil­
ton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 Ri\'ersiile Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—^t-ron—Edward G. Barch, '29, c/o Sodal Security Administration. Canton — Herbert E. Coleman, *48, 2535 Broad, N.W. Cincinnati—Hovrard A. .Rohan, *41, 2990 Erie Ave. Cleveland—VIzrA H. Leahy, '26, 327 Bonnie-wood Dr. Co/uraiiul-Joseph E. Ryan, '30, 227 Chester­field Rd., Columbus 8. Dojlon—Edward C. Stciner, Jr., '44, 130 Rosewood Dr., Da>-ton 5. //nmi7(o«—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Muni­r'pal Court. 
Ohio Valley—John Robinson, '47, 45th and Guernsey Sts., Bellaire. 5an</iut)^Airred A. Schnurr, Jr.. '28, 3413 S. Columbus Ave. Tiflin—Fred J. Wagn-r. '29. 152 Svramore St. Toledo—M. Robert Kopf, Jr., '48, Kimble Glass Co., Ottio BIdg. Youngstown—Francis Hopkins, '41, 3646 Strat­morc A\*e. 
OKLAHOMA—OUotomii C.'/j^IIaskdl Askew, '31, 2420-A No. Robinson. ruba—Patrick H. Malloy, '3G, 1910 First Nat'l. Bank BIdg. 
OREGON—Oscar Quoidback, *4S, 325 N.W. 18th Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA—£i«(CT-n—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. 3004 Turner St., Allentown. £nV—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel BIdg. Harrisburg—Wm. J. Moore, '26, 3760 Montour Street. Monongahela Valley—Adolph V. Capano, '26, 733 McKean Ave., Donora. Philadelphia—Joseph F. Cattie, '41, 6707 Crit­tenden St., Phihdelphia 19. 
P;(/l6ur£/i—Robert V. Fulton, Jr., '33, 356 
S. Neglcy Ave. 5<:riin/on—Gerard A. Purcell, '39, 901 Poplar St. Ifi/tM-Borrt-Edward J. Rowan, '35, 3^ iVe< North St. Ifi/Cnmi/ior/-William R. Downs, '03, 1013 Thompson St., Jersey Shore. Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. AL\SSACIIUSETTS— Russdl L. Hunt, '38, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—CAiiHanoojja-Thomas B. Owen, '35, 4115 Mayfair Ave. Memphis — R. Lamon Kelly, '50, Dermon 
BIdg. TEXAS—Dallas — James W. Simmons, Jr., '32, 5343 Wateka. WouKon—Eugene F. Malloy, *36, 3705 Ar­nold St. San /Infoit'o—Edward G. Conroy, '30, 209 Calumet PI., San Antonio 9. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kcarns BIdg., Salt Lake City. VIRGINIA—Charles M. Morrison, '38, ' Pump' HoiLse Road. Richmond. WASHINGTO.V—5/ioAan.:—Armonde R. Albo, '35, 
2510 W. Garland. Western—\V. Jerome Kane, '33, 10504 Valmay Ave., Seattle 77. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Michad J. O'Connor, '36, . 1518 North Drive, So. Charleston 3. WISCONSIN-rfox River KoUey—Robert Bernard, .'36, 953 Hiseins Ave., Neenah, Wis. Green Bay—John ' B. Sullivan, '43, 715 N. Jackson. . ­ijiCrojK—.\ugust M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front Street. Milwaukee-Floyd J. Sulliian, '40, 4708 W. 
North Ave'., Milwaukee 8. South Central-Thomas H. Flad, '40, 503 S. Prospect, Madison, Wis. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev.. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, 
- (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fit^erald, *94, (key man) La Metropolitana (711), Habana. i/aaiaii-Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man) The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular 
Life BIdg. MEXICO—^/ejaVo C;«y—Tdmo DeLandero, '37, Eugcnio Sue 220, Mexico City. ' /"anamo-William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, Ancon., Canal Zone. Puerto Rico—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695. San Juan. 
SOUTH AMERICA—/"/Tu-Andres Malatcsta, .'23, Tacna, Peru, S.A. 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 






