The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Sfe* -'»!  ^Vjf  
^  :».'.•  
'^i^.  
1  %  9  
^ ^  j^^^.ss^  T^^"  Tf^^'f^^^^''  s  rr^  

VOL. 49. NO. 5 OCTOBER, 1971 
James D . Cooncy '59 ExECtrn\-E DIRECTOR ALUMNI ASSOCIATION EDITOR 
Timothy J. Hughes '61 MANAGING EDITOR Geoi^e A. Scheuer '28 CHIEF COPV Eorroa James Fanlo '73 EDITORIAL ASSISTA-VT 
M. Bnicc Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOCRAFHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS " 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 HO.NORARV RtESIDE-\T Robert A. Erkins '45 PRESIDENT John T. Massman '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, .^DMINISIKATIVE AFFAIRS 
Frank L. McGinn '52 VlCE-PhESIDENT, ALUMNI AFFAIRS Robert L. McGoldridi '55 VICE-PRESIDENT, STUDENT AFFAIRS Leonard H. Tosc '37 ViCE-PiiEsiDENT, ACADEMIC AFFAIRS James D . Cooncy '59 ExEcuTi\-E DIRECTOR Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 

DIRECTORS TO 1972 ~ 
Robert A. Erkins '45, P.O. Box 546, iuhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadu-ay, Kansas Cit)-, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Bldg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoldrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 Leonard H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 

DIRECTORS TO 1973 ~ 
Daniel D. Canale '42, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, CaliL 90807 James C. MacDev-itt '35, 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul. Minn. 551D2 John R. PaneUi '49, 17549 Kirkshire, Bir­mingham, Mich. 4S009 


DIRECTORS TO 1974 
Joseph G. Bertrand '54, 8114 S. Luella Ave., Chicago, III. 60617 
Paul J. Doyle '35. 506r Cedar Creek Dr., Houston, THC. 77027 
Peter F. Flaherty '51. 5033 Castleman St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232 
William K. McGowan Jr. '57, 108 Pennsyl­vania Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 
Charles F. Osbom '38, 73I5-5Ist N.E., SeatUc, Wash. 98115 
1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre^ Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion ^in whole or in part without wTtttcn permission is prohibited. 
Thc Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May, Augtist and November, by the Univcisity of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

FEATURES 
8 Yves Simon at Notre Dame 10 Unification Update: Procedures Unite 12 Welder on Saturday 15 The Men from U.N.D.E.R.C. 
DEPARTMENTS 
3 ND News 19 Old Faces-New Places 20 Class Notes 37 Graduate Schools 39 Club News 44 On Record 48 Alumni Ask 50 Alumni Speak 
Photo credits: cover and back cover, Patrick J. Gibbs '72; p. 10, Joe Cottrell '72; 
pp. 12-13, Bruce Harlan '49. 
IN LOCO PARENTIS 
One of the hottest issues on campus early this fall was not who would be the starting quarterback, but does the University have the right to tell the students what to do with their private lives — in the campus dorms. 
Included in the students' registra­tion packets this year was a copy of a letter from Edmund A. Stephan, ND Board of Trustees chairman, to the Student Life Council, a tri-partite group made up of administrators, fac­ulty and students (see page 6). 
Stephan said the Board members were concerned because students who violated dorm rules were for the most part going unpunished. He called for the SLC to draw up specific sanctions for specific violations of dorm rules. 
As we have indicated before in this magazine, life in the dormitories at Notre Dame is not what it used to be (see "New Life in the Old Dorms," Alumnus, Dec. 1970). Bed checks. Morning checks and lights out are not things that today's student will be reminiscing about at some future re­union. There is no curfew. The rules say that girls are allowed in the dorms until 11 p.m. on weekdays and until 2 a.m. on weekends. Parties at which drinking is a public display, i.e., in hallways or lounges, are prohibited. Those over 21 may keep alcoholic beverages in their rooms, however. 
The sweeping away of petty regula­tions and the efforts to achieve Chris­tian community in the dorms through a certain kind of participatory democ­racy led to something called hall autonomy. Each hall made up its own rules for the members to follow. This has worked well in halls with strong leadership — both from students and rectors. Apparently, though, it has not worked well enough in the Board's vision of the total community. 
The preamble to the campus j'udi­cial code, enacted a little less than a year ago, states: "In a university, con­cern for the social order and for per­sonal growth are functions of educa­tion. Students — as the majority com­ponent— must assume responsibility for setting rules and seeing that they are observed as they ready for more public responsibility beyond the cam­pus. Faculty and administrators, whose commitment to the school is more enduring, and who are charged with fostering the character of the campus community and selecting its members, must share responsibility in this task of social learning." 
The Board of Trustees has decided that a certain minority of ND stu­dents are not living up to the respon­sibilities implicit in the greater degree of freedom they have been granted. Thus the mandate to the Student Life Council. 
To a certain degree, anyway, in loco parentis is still alive and well at Notre Dame. 


sou ANNniBISiyiV MAIKfll BY GOUEGE OF BOSIBS mMIBIUl M 
The first American university to offer a four-year course in foreign com­merce, Notre Dame observed the 50th anniversary of its College of Business Administration in September. The college, with an enrollment of some 1200 students and a full-time faculty of 40, offers concentrations in the fields of accountancy, finance, market­ing, and management. There are more than 10,000 alumni of the college. 
To mark the anniversary of the college, once the largest in enrollment on the campus, a 50th birthday cele­bration was planned for Sept. 16 when members of the College of Business Administration advisory council would be attending their fall meeting. A 1939 Notre Dame graduate, Richard 
J. Anton, manager of corporate per­sonnel policy development for the General Electric Corporation, New York, N.Y., was the principal speaker and Frank E. Sullivan, South Bend insurance executive, was toastmaster. 
Noted for a strong program of liberal studies during the first 70 years of her existence, Notre Dame initiated a series of commercial classes for the business-minded student in 1913. Rev. John F. O'Hara CSC, who was later to become president of the University and a cardinal in the Catholic Church, was asked in 1916 by Rev. John W. Cavanaugh CSC, the ninth president of Notre Dame, to guide the growth of the new department. 
From the total of six students en­rolled in the limited schedule of com­merce classes in 1913, the department grew to 85 classes in 1924, the third year of Fr. O'Hara's deanship. The absence of a building where the ex­panding commerce classes could be centralized was a matter "of great con­cern to the priest. However, in 1930, the chairman of the United States Shipping Board, Edward Nash Hurley, contributed $200,000 for the erection of a new building to be known as the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. 
Fr. O'Hara was succeeded as dean in 1925 by James E. McCarthy who was to serve a total of 30 years in this position. Under his direction, the College became the largest on campus and a trend away from a trade and foreign commerce orientation toward one of management and administra­tion was started. 
Dr. James W. Culliton, a graduate of the Harvard School of Business, joined the faculty during the latter years of the "McCarthy era" and began an experimental program for administrators. Succeeding McCarthy in 1955, Dean Culliton used the re­sults of his experimental program to revise the four-year curriculum, de-emphasizing specialization and strengthening a focus on the whole administrative process. During his deanship the College's name was changed from the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce to the Col­lege of Business Administration. 
Studies of trends in business edu­cation have been continued by Thomas 
T. Murphy, who became dean in 1962 and his associate dean, John R. Malone. Results showed a critical shortage of professional managers— people with the ability to organize, plan, inspire and direct the work of others successfully in large-scale op­erations. In the fall of 1967 Notre Dame launched a full-time, two-year program leading to the degree of master of business administration (MBA). In this program the Uni­versity combines the two most prev­alent approaches to management education: the basic disciplines ap­proach—which emphasizes subjects such as economics, statistics, sociol­ogy, psychology, and law, and the case study approach—which stresses the analysis of actual business situ­ations. 
To house this new program the Hayes-Healy Center was constructed immediately north of the Hurley Building at a cost in excess of $1 mil­lion. The building was a gift of Mr. and Mrs. John F. (Ramona Hayes) Healy of Chicago. 
Between the buildings, a courtyard was dedicated during this past summer to the memory of Ralph and Philip J. Lucier, independent telephone com­pany executives. 

50TH—Preparing to cut the cake, baked in the shape of the Hurley classroom building, are Frank J. Sullivan, South Bend insurance executive and toastmaster; Dean Thomas T. Murphy, fourth dean of the college; Edmund A. Stephan, chairman of the trustees; Father Hesburgh, president; and Richard J. Anton, manager of corporate personnel policy develop­ment of General Electric Corp., a 1939 graduate and speaker at the anniversary dinner. 

Mini M Plans 
In an effort to gather alumni sug­gestions for the best possible methods of obtaining even greater participa­tion in the revitalized Annual Fund campaign of the University and also to test such proposals in the field, Notre Dame this fall will launch a Pilot City Program. The program was mapped out by Frank G. Kelly, ND development director. 
With the successful completion of SUMMA following Challenge I and Challenge II, the University is hon­oring its pledge not to engage in any special capital fund solicitation before 1977, Kelly noted. "However, the University continues to rely upon gifts from alumni and friends to fund at least II per cent of the budget required for each year. Of this the Annual Fund must generate approxi­mately $3 million per year with an equal amount provided by nonalum­ni sources." 
In SUMMA, some 22,000 of Notre Dame's approximately 40,000 living graduates have made contributions, large and small. "The Pilot City Pro­gram is being undertaken to seek the best methods of gaining support from those who have not participated," Kelly said. 
The program will be conducted mostly during October and November of this year so that results can be presented for review and approval by the Board of Trustees, the Alumni As­sociation Board, the Alumni Senate, the Public Relations and Develop­ment Committee and the University Administration. 
"From such experience and study, the talents and energies of the pro­fessional development staff as well as those of alumni volunteers throughout the country can be marshalled in be­half of the Annual Fund," the devel­opment director stated. "The expe­riences garnered in three capital cam­paigns in a decade, as well as the fund-raising know-how of 24 years, will be infused into such a program." 
Micheca Regan 
solicitation. The four regional direc­tors of development, Brian Regan in the Middle East and East, Thomas Sullivan in the South and Southeast, John Micheca in the Midwest and James Kinnane in the West, will assist in starting the program and again in reviewing the findings and results. 
At the spring Alumni Board and Senate meeting in 1972, it will be pos­sible to articulate the long-range mon­etary goals of the University and the role the Annual Fund will play in helping to achieve them; according to Kelly. Suggestions as to how volun­teers would be organized will be de­scribed, as well as ajJpropriate fund­raising techniques to be employed. Finally, materials to be used in con­nection with the Annual Fund pro­gram will be presented to this com­bined body for use in general cam­paigns to follow. 

Polliition TremHt 
man of the board for the firm. 
The process uses sonics and ozone 
to purify water. Roach explained that 
ozone, a strong purifying agent, acts 
to destroy bacteria and break down 
organic pollutants in the water. Since 
the ozone does not attack solid masses 
or particles, sound at varying fre­
quencies is used to break up solid 
blocks of matter in the water, allow­
ing the ozone to act on tiny particles. 
The firm is building a pilot plant to demonstrate effectiveness of the new technique. ND engineers will try var­ious combinations of ozone concen­tration and sound application in an effort to devise an optimum process. 
Dr. Philip Singer, assistant director of civil engineering, will direct the water chemistry aspects of the pro­gram and Dr. Francis H. Verhoff, assistant professor of chemical engi­neering, will direct the process desigti and process control. 

$8.7 Miliin ii Awiris 
A total of $8,704,058 in fund awards was received by ND in the 1970-71 fiscal year. The amount is up slightly from the previous year's figure of $8,374,764, largely due to increased support from government agencies. 
The College of Science received al­most half of the awards, or $3,897,­
874. This includes a major science development grant from the National Science Foundation of $900,000 and is the highest ever received by the college. Last year science received $2,465,414. 
Support for educational and service programs remained constant over" the past year while funds for facilities and equipment dipped sharply. The total for educational programs was $1,490,316; for service programs $105,883 and for facilities $226,267. 
Government agencies provided sup­port of $6,886,730, up from last year's $6,481,349. Support from non­government agencies was $1,837,328, a decline of about $50,000. 
Arts and Letters received $809,481; 
The cities in which the Pilot Pro­gram will be tested are: Boston, De­troit, Chicago, Dallas, Memphis, Pe­oria, San Francisco, Los Angeles and St. Louis. Notre Dame clubs in those cities will form the nucleus of a group working through personal con­tact, telephone calls and direct mail Engineers of the University have been asked by Telecommunications Indus­tries, Inc., of Copiague, N.Y. to assist in the development company's waste­water treatment system. The agree­ment was announced by Dr. Joseph 
C. Hogan, dean of the College of En­gineering, and Alfred J. Roach, chair­College of Business Administration, $51,000; College of Engineering, $725,626, and Law School, $8,400. The Radiation Laboratory received its annual budget of $1,319,000 from the Atomic Energy Commission, and the Institute for Studies in Education, $243,218. 

Hesliirgli Gbiiraiin 
The chairmanship of the Overseas Development Council, a private group that aids underdeveloped countries, has been accepted by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC, ND President. 
The Washington, D.C.-based coun­cil acts as a clearinghouse for over­seas development information and ac­tivities, conducts studies, serves as a forum for discussion of development policies, and tries "to keep the urgen­cy of the challenges of development before the public and responsible authorities." 
The nonprofit corporation has a professional staff of 10 and an annual budget of approximately $600,000. underwritten by grants from more than 40 corporations, foundations and private individuals. 
The 67-member board which Father Hesburgh heads includes Ar­thur J. Goldberg, Supreme Court jus­tice; Vernon E. Jordan, head of the Urban League; James A. Linen, chairman of the executive committee of Time, Inc.; David Rockefeller, Chase Manhattan Bank board chair­man; John E. Swearingen, Standard Oil Co. of Indiana board chair­man; Leonard Woodcock, United Automobile Workers president; and fellow university presidents Malcolm Moos of the U. of Minnesota and Clifton R. Wharton Jr., of Michigan State U. 

BarteD h Stmielul 
Rev. Ernest J. Bartell CSC '53, who was director of the ND Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, is the new president of Stone-hill College, North Easton, Mass. 
Father Bartell succeeds Very Rev. John T. Corr CSC '46 who had served since 1964. Father Corr re­signed but will remain at Stonehill to devote full time to the college's en­richment and expansion program. 
The new Stonehill president is for­mer chairman of the ND Department of Economics and is serving as direc­tor of an economic analysis of non­public school education in the U.S. for the President's Commission on School Finance. He had been a mem­ber of the ND faculty since 1966. 
HARRY C. ELMORE, who took the above photo and others of ND men in sports, class dances and other campus events, died of cancer May 19 in Miami,. Fla. He was S9 and until recent years was nationally known as scorer for the Masters and other major golf tournaments. He was staff photographer for the South Bend News-Times and in that capacity was on the campus hundreds of times. When Grantland Rice christened the 1924 ND backfield "The Four Horsemen," Elmore posed them, in football gear, astride horses, 
and sold hundreds if not thousands of prints. 

New AiioinliiKits 
The fall semester opens with a score of new administrators, some an­nounced previously, others new. 
Dr. Willis Bartlett, who has been chairman of the Department of Graduate Studies in Education, is now acting dean-director of the Insti­tute for Studies in Education. He succeeds Rev. Neil McClusky SJ, who is leaving ND. 
Other appointments listed by Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC, provost, are: 
Rev. William Botzum CSC, assist­ant vice president for graduate in­struction. 
Dr. William M. Burke, assistant provost. Rev. David Burrell CSC, chairman of the Department of Theology. Leo M. Corbaci, dean of adminis­tration. Dr. Dennis Dugan, chairman of the Department of Economics. John T. Goldrick, director of the office of admissions. 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice presi­dent for advanced studies. Dr. Peter P. Grande, assistant dean of the freshman year of studies. Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of freshman year. 
Dr. Francis M. Kobayashi, assist­ant vice president for research and sponsored programs. 
Dr. William T. Liu, chairman of the Department of Sociology and An­thropology. 
Dr. John L. Magee, director of the Radiation Laboratory. Dr. Darwin Mead, assistant dean of the College of Science. Daniel Osberger, assistant dean of administration. Donald Rosenthal, associate reg­istrar. Thomas Shaffer, dean of the Law 
School. David Sparks, director of libraries. Richard Sullivan, registrar. 
R. Brian Walsh, director of the Computing Center. 
Rev. Joseph L. Walter CSC, chair­man of the Department of Prepro­fessional Studies. 

MB Hews 
ToHsliGn Derm Rales 
The Notre Dame Board of Trustees 
has moved this semester to establish 
more stringent enforcement of rules of 
conduct in the campus dormitories. 
Of particular concern to the trustees 
was the violation of rules regarding 
drinking and the visitation of women. 
In a letter to Prof. William F. 
Eagan, chairman of the Student Life 
Council, Edmund A. Stephan, trustees 
chairman, pointed out that while 
progress had been made in certain 
areas of hall life at Notre Dame, there 
was still room for improvement. 
The Board reaffinned its under­standing that the hall rector, "must bear the ultimate burden of responsi­bility for the good order and well­being of the hall. In this regard, it should be observed that the rector has always retained the authority to re­quire a student to live elsewhere if he has, by his own actions, made his con­tinued residence in the hall obstructive of good order." 
Stephan repeated the statement of the board last April, that resident as­sistants in the dorms: "Should be available to the students a major por­tion of the evening hours, should pro­vide leadership by the example of his own life, should counsel those who seek academic or personal advice, offer assistance to those in need, and if normal student self-discipline breaks down, he should, with the rector's support, be responsible for restoring the good order of the hall." 
Stephan also asked the SLC for a clarification of the position of the campus Disciplinary Boards. "Disci­plinary Boards have too often in the past tended to ignore or alter regula­tions with which they did not agree," Stephan stated. He called for "precise guidelines" for Disciplinary Boards in order that sanctions "be clear and un­equivocal for the offenses commit­ted " 
The Board stated again its com­mitment to limited visitation hours for women in the dormitories. "This experiment was inaugurated in the hope that such visitation proce­dures would improve the social life on campus and would contribute to the growth and maturity of the indi­vidual hall residents," Stephan said. "Although the Board .. . is seriously concerned over the many abuses in this area .. . it is still of the view that the present rules, if conscien­tiously observed and enforced, will effectively contribute toward these goals." 
TTie Board also reminded the SLC of its stand that all parties where al­coholic beverages were to be served would be held off-campus. "The Uni­versity's status before the law and its responsibility for the welfare of each student requires that this original policy be retained and strictly en­forced," the chairman stated. Students are allowed to have alcoholic bever­ages in their rooms if they are 21 years old. 
In a letter to the Notre Dame stu­dents summarizing the Sfephan letter. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC said that the problem that the Board faces is: "How preserve the gains, how recognize the good will of the many while bearing down on the few who abuse the permissive atmo­sphere that has been deliberately created? There seemed to be only one reasonable solution: To state again, and clearly, what were the hopes and expectations of the many members of this community, while establishing procedures that will take account of the few that cannot act maturely in a free and permissive atmosphere, who disdain the will of the many for a better quality of life in the halls." 


New Position 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, associate dean : of the ND College of Science, has been appointed to the newly created ; position of vice president for ad-' vanced studies, effective Sept. 1. ' 
The new post combines the pre­vious functions of the vice president for research and sponsored programs and the dean of the Graduate School. ; Dr. Frederick Rossini, who now J holds the vice presidency, and Rev. : Paul E. Beichner CSC '35, dean of ; the Graduate School, both' are retiring. • 
Gordon, a specialist in ecology and :: vertebrate zoology, did his undergrad-• uate work at Emory U., received an • 
M.S. from the U. of Georgia and ; a Ph.D. from Tulane U. He joined : the biology faculty at ND in 1958. From 1958 to 1967 he edited The American Midland Naturalist at ND. J 
POPE RECEIVES STEPHAN AND FATHER HESBURGH—Pope Paul VI, left, /he |­recipient oj an honorary doctorate jrom ND in 1960 as Cardinal Moniini, greets Edmund k 
A. Stephan, cliairman of the University's board of trustees and Rev. Tlieodore M. Hesburgh :j CSC, President, at a private audience in July at the Holy Father's residence at Castelf.: Candolfo. if-. 

STUDENT VIEW 
by Jim Fanto '73 
The creating of a collective respon­sibility within each residence hall is no simple matter. Students are as diverse in life style as the geograph­ical settings from which they come. The simple habits we have acquired at home, our bedtime, drinking habits, relationships with girls, may differ widely. We must often sublimate or alter some of our habits in order to live peacefully, and humanly with our roommates. 
And yet the concern and respect we may offer our roommates or close friends do not usually extend to the students two doors down the hall, in another section, or several floors be­low us. While a common place of living breeds a familiarity on the level of hall football contests, card games, and parties, it cannot automatically produce a personal knowledge and respect of individuals. 
Students, then, can be rightly ex­pected to understand that a more per­sonal social interaction is necessary in our halls. That is why hall sec­tions were formed. By developing acquaintances and concern among immediate neighbors within small groups, an individual student may then relate more personally to other hall members. Yet each one of us must also show an elemental cour­tesy and concern to all our neighbors, whether or not we know them per­sonally. We must have the courage to act with a responsibility in all our actions in the dormitories, realizing that we owe others this responsibility. 
Unfortunately, the success of the section programs in promoting a per­sonal awareness among hall members as well as the sensitivity of Notre Dame students is at a low ebb. When outright vandalism in dormitories is caused by students, a majority of students ignore the others' actions. Other times, thoughtiess residents demonstrate their lack of respect by harassing fellow students' dates. 
While the majority of us are to blame for our unconcern and irre­sponsibility in the face of these actions, there do exist faults in the administration which add to the havoc of the dorms. Halls could be improved by adequate soundproofing of indi­vidual rooms, the refurbishing of lounges, and by the bringing of more classes and faculty into the halls through already existing programs. These would help ease student ten­sions and make the halls more livable. Students feel a certain "facelessness" before the University in the form of mass dining, registration queues, grad­ing procedures, oversize classes. These do not strengthen the students' per­sonal values or their value of others. In short, the dormitory problems are a University-wide concern. 
Fr. Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees in their recent ruling on parietals and drinking have ignored several facets of the dormitory prob­lems—particularly those facets which involve other members of the Uni­versity besides students. I am not try­ing to de-emphasize student responsi­bility and insensitivity, but to point out that the administration, the faculty, and the Trustees should not skirt their responsibility by shifting complete blame for hall troubles to the students. Unfortunately, there is a certain blindness exhibited in Mr. Stephan's letter to the students. This blindness obscures the possibility on this campus of developing stronger personal relationships between stu­dents and other members of the Uni­versity community as well as a healthier physical setting in the halls. The Trustees and Fr. Hesburgh opt instead for a condemnation of student responsibility on two controversial hall issues, place the burden of further action on student shoulders and, ulti­mately, add more tension to the al­ready uncomfortable dormitory life. 

IRISH EYES—The reigning Miss VJS.A., Michele McDonald of Butler, Perm., vias a September visitor on the campus. Escorted by John Barkett, left, student body president, and Orlando Rodriguez, vice president, she was a guest at a Morris Irin luncheon and a tour of the campus, including classroom visits and an introduction to the football team. 

AT NOTRE DAME 
BY JAMES CORBETT 
A PERSONAL RECOLLECTION OF ONE OF THE UNIVERS:Tv 5 K'OS' ACCOMPLISHED PHILOSOPHERS 
We first met Yves Simon in Septem­ber, 1938, a week or two after his arrival in South Bend from France. He had moved with his wife and four children into the white house which was to become his permanent home in the United States. It was less than a hundred yards from the small apart­ment where I lived with my young French wife and first child. We had heard of Yves' coming to Notre Dame on our return from a summer spent in France and were anxious to meet him and his family. Yet we both wondered whether we would like them. It did not necessarily follow that because they and my wife were French we would become close friends. 
It soon became clear, however, that we had much more in common than the French language and French back­ground. There quickly developed all that rich warmth, aff'ection and under­standing which is friendship. It was to endure untroubled for the next 23 years. 
When Yves and Paule first arrived at Notre Dame, Yves' spoken English was poor; his wife spoke not a word of it. He realized that his most urgent problem was to master English in order to be able to teach. During the first fall and winter we spent many evenings together using Commonweal as our text for grammar and vocabu­lary while I tried to help him with his pronunciation. It is very diffi­cult for a man in his middle thirties with a somewhat limited reading knowledge of English to learn quickly to speak it well enough for the class­room. What was remarkable about Yves' effort was his determination to master it and to settle for nothing less than correct speech and facility. With­in a few years he was thinking and writing in English. He paid close at­tention to every correction made of his grammar. He would always ask for an explanation of the construction or idiom involved, then repeat it aloud two or three times. From then on he would rarely repeat the same mistake. 
Yves Simon came to Notre Dame as the country was emerging from the Depression. As student enrollment in­creased. Rev. John F. O'Hara, CSC, President of the University, with the strong encouragement of Rev. Philip Moore, CSC, at the time secretary of the Graduate School, had started to hunt for scholars of repute to strength­en the faculty. These were the prewar years during which Notre Dame en­gaged not only Yves, who had been recommended by Etienne Gilson, but 
I Waldemar Gurian, the founder of The Review of Politics, and Aloya Hermens for the department of po­litical science. Karl Menger in mathe­matics and Emile Artin in Physics. Yves was the most important addition to the Department of Philosophy. 
Yves was much more than a narrow professional philosopher. He was. very much a citizen of France. We had known him only a week or two before the humiliation of Munich took place. All during the following months up to the outbreak of World War II and then the disaster of June, 1940, the fate of France was much on his mind. As a Frenchman he was torn by the col­lapse of France and soon took a passionate interest in the Isolationist versus Interventionist controversy which raged in this country and with great intensity on the campus. As a foreigner he felt obliged to observe a certain restraint; as a Frenchman he could see that the only hope for France was in American intervention. A common concern for the fate of his relatives and friends in France as well as of those of my wife brought us closer together than ever. Despite his own worries, Yves was ever the sym­pathetic friend to my wife who was so deeply concerned about her family in occupied France. 
It was during this tragic war period that Yves, crippled since childhood and unable to do active military ser­vice, wrote, "Tke Fall of the Third French Republic."' Political philoso­phy was an area which always fasci­nated him. The collapse of France prompted him to reflect on the politi­cal life of his generation. Much of it was written from memory for he had an exceptional one for the events, movements and key personalities in the France of the '20s and '30s. 
It was this memory of his which helped make him such a fascinating person. He could recite dozens of French poems he had learned in his youth and loved to tell anecdotes in which he, his friends or outstanding personalities were involved. He would drop in, usually on Saturday after­noons, after a day's work at his desk. He came to relax and talk. Some of our most cherished memories of him are of these stimulating conversations. Yves inspired trust. He was deeply learned not only in philosophy but also in theology, history and French 
1 English Edition, "THE ROAD TO VICHY," translated by James A. Corbett and George J. McMorrow, Sheed and Ward, New York. 1942. 
literature. He loved to talk at length 
on these subjects. And we loved to 
encourage him to do so with leading 
questions. He had the wonderful 
quality of never becoming angry how­
ever much we might disagree with 
him. 
It was during one of these Saturday afternoon conversations that he first told us of the diagnosis given of a lump which had developed on the left side of his face. For a long time he thought something could be done to cure it. An operation in Chicago failed. The cancer spread throughout his body; he became bedridden and subject to increasing pain. It was for us now to return the many Saturday afternoon visits he had made when he was well. During the last two years of his illness we visited him nearly every day even though it was so heartrend­ing to see him suffer. But it seemed to help him to see us; so we went. For a number of months he was still able to work for a few hours a day at his long, plain table covered with books and papers. Then he had to give this up. TTie ever-thoughtful a:jd kind Rev. Leo R. Ward, CSC, came to his house to say the last Mass Yves was to hear on this favorite worktable. 
Though finally bedridden in his study he continued to have classes there. His students from the Uni­versity of Chicago came down regu­larly to hear him. It was one of his few pleasures during these last months to be able to lecture to them. 
YvR.<; was well aware of his excep­tional intellectual powers. He was also determined to use them to the maxi­mum by hard work. This was par­ticularly evident during his last illness. Although his body gradually became weaker and required sedation, the spirit and drive were as active as ever. Inevitably as the long months went by he came to realize that he was not going to recover his health. The prob­lem of death and afterlife had becorhe much less academic; now it was per­sonal and near. 
A man of profound faith, he had also an awesome fear of death. There was the fear of punishment for sin, the fear that he might not be prepared to die. There was too a sort of human resentment that death was so near. He had planned a series of 21 volumes to be called "Philosophical Enquiries." Some were completed; several others done in part. The Lord must give him at least the time to finish them! But this was not to be for on Ascension Thursday, 1961, he was called to his eternal reward. 
f 
' 
1 
* * ^J*' 1 * •! \ )' c 
f 
f 
!*fcil  .  IV.AKY  b  ^  
Re-elect TRUDY SLABY ETHERTON  
<---^^^— 'i^ ^ :'^4I  
';.•>! IIrrr r '  ifTiTlUf iftrl  !«eB!i^s@^^s:^  

llDificatioii Update: Procedures Unite 
Those planning the "marriage" of ND and SMC probably wish at this point that the two institutions had just eloped. But unification is an ar­ranged marriage if there ever was one, and perhaps the best way to summarize progress is in terms of the work of the interinstitutional teams. 
Academic Affairs: The melding of departments on both sides of the highway has been progressing well, with the heads of SMC cognate de­partments becoming, for this transi­tional year, associate department chairmen at ND. Two administrative offices—Admissions and Registrar— have been unified. 
Thus far, this committee has been concerned with solving immediate— but fairly minor—problems, such as fee discrepancies. Major policy de­cisions are yet to be made affecting such areas as library services and proposed new academic programs. 
Student Affairs: Little work could be done during the summer because of the absence of student members of the committee. It seems evident that the problems lie not in the area of student activities—where integra­tion of the student bodies is already a fait accompli in m ;ny cases—but in student services, such as psychological counseling, infirmary operation and housing. 
Business Affairs: Much of the ini­tial committee work has been survey­ing and comparing modes of opera­tion on the two campuses in such key areas as personnel, purchasing, book­store, maintenance, and food service. In many cases, decisions hinge upon the overall study of unification of financial arrangements. 
Development and Public Relations: 
Notre Dame Information Services now handles the public information function for Saint Mary's and in other areas—such as alumni affairs, devel­opment, placement—unification plans are in the works with SMC counter­parts. The boards of directors of the ND and SMC alumni bodies will meet jointly this fall to discuss the impli­cations of unification. 
Financial Planning: The top prior­ity item in unification is planning for a financially viable institution, which includes the development of a com­mon operating budget and arrange­ment for the use of SMC physical facilities. Father Edmund P. Joyce CSC, Notre Dame's treasurer, and Sister M. Gerald Hartney CSC, his SMC counterpart, are working with Ernst & Ernst, the accounting firm which services both institutions, to solve this major issue. 
Space utilization and transportation loom as two highly complicated prob­lems in unification, and the man who has been asked to confront them is Leo M. Corbaci, Notre Dame's newly appointed Dean of Administration. Corbaci and his staff moved over to Saint Mary's early in the summer with their tape measures and discov­ered that SMC's dowry in unification is an e.xcellent physical plant with elbow room Notre Dame sorely needs. Corbaci's square-foot figures boil down to one significant statistic —with five times as many students, Notre Dame has only 2.5 times the space of Saint Mary's. The Notre Dame campus is nearing utilization limits, while space at SMC is being underutilized. 
Tied closely to decisions about what Notre Dame academic units move to the SMC campus is the trans­portation problem, now barely being met with a fleet of shuttle buses. It is obvious that movement between the two campuses has to be mini­mized in the absence of a multi­million-dollar outlay for a monorail system, but much less clear is how to do this. 
While the unraveling of unification problems seems at times to discover more difficulties than it solves, there is one major change in attitude which is a cause for optimism. "Procedures unite, ideologies divide," is the way the veteran of unification discussion. Father Charles Sheedy, once summed it up, and it is evident that the ideo­logical skirmishes are over and the planners are at work. 
by Richard W. Conklin 
Pat Mudron, class of '71, played on the Irish football team for four years, but his name will only remain in the minds of those who knew him per­sonally. For Pat wasn't one of those men constantly mentioned in Sunday's sports page headlines—or even in Saturday's starting lineups. 
Pat was a "prepper," a member of the third team defense. His job each week was to prepare the offensive team by simulating the defensive formations of the upcoming opponent. 
Pat wasn't the happiest member of the prep defensive unit, nor was he the most sullen. He had a lot to be thankful for. Football had been good to him. His athletic scholarship paid college expenses, enabling him to get his degree; he found a great bunch of guys not only on the team, but also among the student body; and he had many experiences that no amount of bench sitting could take away. 
Yet, he'll always have that feeling of what might have been if his knee hadn't been injured during spring practice of 1969. It wasn't corrected until after the '69 season and by that time capable replacements had been found and his football career as a starting defensive tackle was over. 
Still he came out every day and tried his best. He accepted his fate as a prepper, always keeping alive the hope that maybe things would change and he would become a starter again. The change never came. By his senior year, football had become little more than a job. Three hours a day of going nowhere. — 
y-i 
If' 


SAnMAY 
by Jack Cahill '71 
The Notre Dame prep squad works as hard as the varsity from Monday through Friday, but can only dream of glory on Saturday. 
i^^ 
• 1 *.. ,-i--» 
^^1 
---?g^

<..:-^.y — 
They go through their motions, but, as Pat says, "you are always on the alert for a cheap-shot tackle or a blind-side block because self-preserva­tion is a must among the preppers." After all, where do they go once they aren't even qualified to be a prepper? 
Despite doubts about their contri­bution to the team's overall effort, preppers as a whole are very spirited because the sophomores and juniors still have hopes of making the varsity. So they do their best to impress the coaches. 
Gary Kos, who started for two years at offensive guard, was a prep team linebacker during his entire sophomore year. He recalls, "The coaches didn't know exactly where to play me. But I kept a good attitude, did the best possible, and hoped thai someday my break would come. Luckily for me, it did." 
Kos' break came about because each member of the entire team is evaluated after practice every day. In their recently published book, "Par­seghian and Notre Dame Football," Coach Parseghian and his assistant, Tom Pagna, talk about the evaluation of players: "Our players know that at least once a day, for no less than an hour's time, we on the staff have dis­cussed each man on our squad. His attitude, physical condition, technique, size, speed, agiiity, and desire have all been assessed and perhaps sometimes severely criticized in an open atmo­sphere of discussion. In such evalua­tions we have one thought in mind: Where can this young man be of the greatest help to our team? The young man knows this. He also knows tha an evaluation on a particular day is not permanent, it can be changed the next day. Performance counts, and players are not static performers. Im­provements are made, injuries force changes, and no one is ever excluded from making a major contribution to the team. The players have faith in the decisions of the staff exactly in the measure of their loyalty." 
Keeping the faith as a senior prep­per, however, can be almost as diffi­cult as giving a 20-point lead to Southern California and then trying to catch up—in the rain. Unlike the sophomores and juniors, the seniors know their days in uniform are numbered, time is running out. 
Yet, they come out to practice daily. Why? Some because they feel they owe it to the University for the education they are receiving. Others do it just to show the coaches they have what it takes. They are motivated by an intense personal pride and self-respect which constantly pushes them. Still others, such as Pete Schivarelli, came out because "This is Notre Dame and I want to be a part of that tradition no matter how small a piece I get" 
"Playing with the prep team allows a guy to be more natural and just be himself one veteran of prepper wars said. "There isn't the constant pres­sure of win, win, win, breathing down your neck every Saturday." A prepper is more apt to take a lighthearted ap­proach to his duties. A couple of years ago, the prep defense was using red-dog patterns and linebacker blitzes that the upcoming opponent frequent­ly used in key situations. One of the coaches had gone through about ten different variations of the "dog" ma­neuver and had been very explicit in describing them to the prep defensive unit. So Dennis Kilanney, a prep line­backer, said to the coach, "We have a new dog for you." The coach asked what it was and Kilanney responded with, "The Philly Dog, man," and the entire prep defensive team started into the dance which was the current rage that year, the Philly Dog. 
Despite some clowning around, members of the prep team realize they have a serious job to perform and the coaches are always there to remind them of this. 
All major schools have a prep team. Coaches and players alike know that it is a necessity for the success of a football program. But this doesn't make it any easier for a prepper to accept his fate. 
Do your dreams of being a personal success in football end right there or do you put the team above yourself and sacrifice for the good of the team? The inner frustrations and futility of a prepper can be seen in the team cheers they make up at the completion of each week of practice. 
Friday afternoons are light work­outs and they conclude with three cheers: the offensive team, the de­fensive team, and the preppers. The first two are usually very inhibited and quite conservative. Then comes the preppers' turn. 
"They get back at everything that is bothering them through their cheer," Chuck Nightingale said. "When you are not playing and you are down because you feel like you are not contributing^.the Friday cheers bring a smile to your face and enable you to summon up the courage to face another week of practice." Another week of another team's defense, an­other week of inner futility echoed in this Friday cheer: 
"So this week it's Army 
But that should be no test; 
Because the preppers could beat 
'em 
(Pause) 
If only we were dressed." 
THE MEN FROM 



U1D.LR.C. 
SCIENTISTS FROM NOTRE DAME STUDY THE ENVIRONMENT IN THE WISCONSIN WILDS. 
The University of Notre Dame's Environmental Research Center (UNDERC) lies just north of the ]x>pular Wisconsin resort area known as Land O'Lakes. Cars back up along the two-lane highways each summer, filled with people seeking lake-side relaxation. The little towns along the roads sport cheese stands, ersatz Indian totem poles and junk stores offering cans of fresh Wisconsin air and pine pillows. 
In contrast to the bustling activity of the surrounding resort areas, UNDERC's 5,500-acre tract remains almost deserted. A few scientists drive its dirt trails pursuing various research projects. Occasional conferences crowd the complex of buildings on Killamey Point But in general the area remains the province of deer, bear, porcupine and beaver—wildlife becoming increasingly rare where man is more populous. 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies at ND and di­rector of the research program at 
UNDERC, explains that the area functions as a wilderness preserve, a conference center and a research station. Gordon believes the area has two major advantages over other bio­logical field stations in the country— its huge size and its enforced remote­ness. 
Its remoteness means biologists can use radioactive tracing techniques to follow the flow of important chemi­cals through plant and animal systems. Although the small amounts of es­sentially harmless radioactive mate­rials used in these experiments pose little danger, their release would be unthinkable in an area populated by curious visitors and their children. 
Its size means researchers can use entire lakes or bogs in experiments, an unusual situation for scientific studies. The classic research on nutrients in lake systems was done by a U. of Wisconsin professor on Peter and Paul lakes at UNDERC. He forcibly divided the single lake into two halves, and could then prove fairly easily that increased fish yields on one side were due to added nutrients supplied by him. 
breeding and living in difiierent areas 
(small compared to the hundreds of 
species living in tropical climates). 
Some favor the grasslands, others the 
deep woods, others the mat of plants 
which edge the bog lakes. One breeds 
in the small amounts of water left in 
tree holes after rain. 
Dr. Milan Tipis, assistant faculty 
fellow in biology, plans to make a 
particular study of this tree-hole mos­
quito, Aedes triseriatus. The insect 
carries a newly identified disease mis­
leadingty called "California encepha­
litis," common in several Midwestern 
states. Similar to the Venezuelan en­
cephalitis that struck horses and 
people in Texas, the disease is in­
curable and sometimes fatal. The 
mosquito that carries it is very hard 
to control since it breeds in tree holes 
rather than open water, and so is not 
vulnerable to most spraying or swamp-
drainage programs. 
A graduate student of Craig's, William Conner, is studying a mos­quito which lives and lays its eggs in the water found at the bottom of pitcher plants. Pitcher plants are gen­erally insect death traps, luring small bugs with a sweet smell and then poisoning and digesting them in the juices within. These particular mos­quitoes, however, are apparently able to thrive on the substance that poisons most other insects. Conner would like to learn why. 
To collect adults for identification, Craig and Trpis take a direct but un­comfortable approach—they sit in the woods and wait for mosquitoes to bite. When full of blood, the insects are trapped by the scientists in a glass tube plugged with cotton. The re­searchers hope to raise some of these northern types in the laboratory in spite of considerable difficulties— these mosquitoes will not mate in the laboratory. Even where eggs are pro­duced, they take about nine months to hatch, rather than the few weeks common in tropical mosquitoes. 
The possibilities for environmental research are only beginning to be ex­ploited at UNDERC, Gordon ex­plained. The first project was begun by Dr. Thomas Griffing, an assistant 
Gordon, a biologist who specializes in reptiles and amphibians, has guided the development of Land O'Lakes since ND decided to create a research capacity there in 1968. Acquiring authority just after the government stopped providing ready money for such projects, Gordon has scrounged for mattresses, fixed the plumbing himself on occasion, bullied graduate students and university officials alike and eventually succeeded in gaining a new laboratory for the site. Perpet­ually smoking a cigar "to keep the mosquitoes away," he is most at home in an old flannel shirt and a specimen hat where he stores strange plants for later identification. 
One of the first orders of business at UNDERC is a survey of existing plants and animals simply to find out what's there. Dr. George B. Craig, director of the Vector Biology Labo­ratory at ND and a specialist in the tropical Aedes aegypti mosquito, began a survey of mosquito species in the area two years ago. He and his graduate students have identified 32 different types of mosquitoes each 
Text and Photos by Jean Horiszny 

professor of biology who has since 
left ND. Griffing and his graduate 
students study "Nutrient Cycling in 
Bog Lakes," essentially an effort to 
learn why old, decaying lakes are un­
productive despite the presence of 
much organic material. 
Griffing explained that lakes go 
through several stages of development, 
beginning as clear, quite unproductive 
lakes, becoming extremely productive 
as plants and animals increase in the 
lake, and finally becoming acidic, 
brownish bogs which fill in with 
sphagnum and other floating mat 
plants. 
Graduate students Tom Kane and Gary Logan are studying the North-gate Bog to gauge the plant activity at various depths in the bog. Using radioactive carbon 14, they take samples at various depths, introduce the carbon, and return the bottles to original positions for several hours. They then study the activity of living things in the bog by measuring how much carbon the plants at each layer have used. The depths differ markedly in plant life and a variety of other features. For instance, temperature may drop 10 degrees within a few feet of the surface. The bottom is quite chilly and dark, so that the rich nutrients trapped there cannot be used by plant life because of the lack of warmth and light. 
Later in the summer, Griffing's students plan to introduce calcium into the bog system in an effort to increase its productivity. In the labo­ratory, calcium increased the avail­ability of carbon to plant life, permit­ting increased growth. 
A graduate student from the U. of Michigan, Leo Montroy, is studying the next step up the food chain from the algae and plant life. He is trying to relate changes in the plant forms to changes in the population of small animals that live in the bog. These animals vary according to layers with­in the bog, and with temperature and season as well. If the addition of calcium does produce an increase or change in plant life, Montroy expects it will change the type and number of small animals as well. 
David Imes, also from the U. of Michigan, is studying another nutrient important in bog life—phosphorus. Fish farmers who are concerned about maintaining the yields of their ponds are interested in this common fertil­izer, which mysteriously disappears soon after apph'cation in bog lakes. Imes found in earlier experiments that much of the phosphorus ends 
up in the mat of plants which forms 
the edge of most bogs—the semisolid 
layer of sphagnum that "quakes," 
giving rise to the name quaking bog. 
This summer he studied the op­
posite approach—adding phosphorus 
to the mat and watching to see if any 
makes its way into the lake itself. If 
so, this might be an alternate method 
of fertilizing the lake. To study the 
progress of phosphorus through the 
tangle of plants, he applies radioactive 
phosphorus 32 at three major sites, 
and samples the water at various 
depths to gauge the progress it makes 
downward toward the bog. 
His case filled with 36 tubes of 
water, Imes goes back to the labo­
rator)' after sampling the bog to an­
alyze each one. The laboratory is one 
of Gordon's special projects, a spa­
cious, light room atop the garage on 
Tenderfoot Lake. Complete with dor­
mitory, cubicles for study, a chemical 
laboratory, a darkroom and kitchen, 
the whole complex can be heated for 
winter use. 

At the lab, Imes transfers the sample liquid into numbered, metal caps lined with special paper and dries the caps in an oven. The paper must then be sent over to U. of Michigan's nearby forestry camp for final analy­sis of the radioactivity, and therefore the amount of phosphorus, registered at each station. 
With the laboratory in operating shape, Gordon is now seeking to im­prove living facilities for graduate students, faculty and their families. Although set on lovely Tenderfoot Lake and quite near the laboratory, the buildings left by Martin Gillen when he willed the property to ND in 1943 hardly form an idyllic setting. Old, eaten by porcupines and split by settling, they will need extensive re­working before they are habitable. The most promising, Gordon ex­plained, is the church (abandoned in 1967) which he plans to turn into a dormitory. 
The seminarians once used the Moreau Camp as a summer study and recreation facility, until the priests decided that their true place during the summer was serving in the cities and parishes. They then vacated the camp, and the land reverted to the University. 
Since Notre Dame acquired the property from Gillen, it has been used largely as a remote conference site. The complex of buildings on Killarney Point retain that function. Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND Presi­dent, has periodically used it for meet­ings of the U.S. Civil Rights Com­mission, which he heads, as well as for gatherings of ND trustees and advisory council members. The site gained some attention when a presti­gious group of Catholic educators met there and drafted a forward-looking statement on the nature of. the Cath­olic university, which became known as the Land O'Lakes statement. 
A New York Times profile of Father Hesburgh mentioned that he boasts of his skill as a fisherman, and relaxes by fishing the rich, uncrowded lakes at Land O'Lakes. However, strict plans have been drawn up so that the recreational purposes of the land will not interfere with the rare natural environment so valuable to researchers in zoology, ecology, fores­try and other fields. 
This was not always the case in past years. Before environmental aware­ness hit the countr>', the University allowed its land to be lumbered, so that most of the timber now standing is second growth. Some of the small hollows still have no trees established, perhaps, Gordon speculated, because the cold settles in these bowls and kills the young trees. 
Craig is particularly indignant over the now-distant lumbering enterprise, as it cuts down the population of tree-hole mosquitoes, which he would par­ticularly like to study. 
Gordon hopes the region will be­come increasingly useful to scientists at a variety of Midwest universities for environmental and ecological research. It has already been of service to faculty at U. of Michigan and U. of Wisconsin, and he feels it can be developed to serve the entire area as a unique opportunity for environ­mental research. 
M 
Dr. Gordon 
U 
mni L Ptease Sunk! 
by Robert A. Erkins, President. 
ND Aliiinni Board 
The fall Alumni Board meeting will 
be here shortly, and the Board will 
want to discuss matters that interest 
you the most. To do this, we need 
your views (preferably in the form 
of letters) written either directly to 
the Alumni Board member in your 
area or to me. Much is happening at 
Notre Dame, and the members of 
the Alumni Board are becoming more 
involved than ever in reflecting Alum­
ni views to the ND Board of Trustees 
and the administration. 
With Notre Dame and St. Mary's unifying after coexistence for over 100 years, we certainly need sugges­tions from you in order to set the Alumni Board policies for the future. 
At the present time, it appears that both SMC and ND administrators will follow a broad outline of unifi­cation along these general lines: 
This fall the ND student body will be made up of approximately 8,050 men. This group includes 1,625 freshmen. The overall student body will be down about 100 from the pre­vious fall, primarily due to an ex­pected decline in graduate school en­rollment. On the other hand, SMC will increase by approximately 175 students, bringing its undergradu­ate student body to 1,775, including 515 freshmen. The ND and SMC Registrar and Admissions offices have been combined and will be working this fall in handling the 9,825 men and women on both campuses. 
By September 1, unification was scheduled to be completed by many academic departments of both insti­tutions. SMC has already turned over its public information function to the Notre Dame Department of Informa­tion Services. 
During the academic year 1971-72, there will be no change in campus housing. This fall, women- can reg­ister in any of the various programs for degrees that will be ofl^ered under the unified academic departments. ND undergraduate degrees with the name "St. Mary's," as the college of record, will be given to women un­dergraduates starting in 1973. 
The student governments of SMC and ND should blend together quite easily. SMC women have been play­ing an active part in ND student ac­tivities for quite a few years now. ND is to develop plans for the future You must have noticed the girl cheer­of these two associations. We would '; leaders at various sports activities. particularly like your views as to i 

One of the main problems facing whether you feel that the two groups [ 
this unification is that of financial ar­should be unified, function as sep-; rangement. This fall, both the ND arate but coordinated organizations, and St. Mary's Trustees will review a or continue as they now are as sepa-s report on joint financing. The finan­rate and autonomous operations. ; cial burden of operating a private TTiis coming academic year will be { 
university is extremely heavy today. one of transition, working towards { Tuition this year at ND will be raised an eventual goal of a single coeduca­in an attempt to keep even with the tional institution with one administra-\ 
rising costs. Certainly a fair amount tion, one faculty, and one board of 
of federal tax money from various trustees. This year, department heads government agencies is given to ND. from St. Mary's will become asso-; During the past fiscal year ending ciate chairmen of their respective 
June 30, the University received over Notre Dame departments. Sister ; $8.7 million in government awards, an Alma Peter CSC will not only con­increase of $330,000 over what was tinue as president of SMC, but she received the previous year. Of the also will be vice president for special amount received, more than three-projects at Notre Dame, the first lady 
fourths will support research pro­officer of the University. grams with the College of Science re­
Father Ted Hesburgh was re­ceiving almost half of the total elected this past summer by the awards. Funds for facilities and board of trustees, and will begin his equipment show a sharp decrease, twentieth year as president of ND. 

while support for education and ser­Of course, the question still being vice programs remains constant in echoed which was originally asked by comparison to recent years. Support ND Chairman of the Board of Trus­from nongovernment agencies has 
tees, Ed Stephan, is "So what do we 

declined about $50,000, and now do about the line 'While her loyal stands at $1.8 million. 
sons are marching'?" Certainly an area of decision for Your Board is guided by your the alumni of both St. Mary's and views. Let's have them, please! 
ARE YOU WITH IT? 
A new wrinkle has been added to the Class news section this issue. The percentage of participation in the Annual Fund by each class as of July 1971 is listed at the heading of the Class columns. Annual Alumni support of the University was organized in 1943 in the form of the Annual Alumni Fund. Since its inception, the Fund has produced the largest con­tinuous source of unrestricted income to Notre Dame. In short, annual Alumni giving has helped keep the wolf (and various and sundry other specters) from Notre Dame's doors for nearly 30 years. 
Class participation percentages will be recorded in each issue henceforth, in recognition of the fine efforts of the Class Agents and the generous response of their Classmates. Obvi­ously, we hope this will serve as a gentle but consistent re­minder to those of us who may have neglected an annual gift thus far. 
Let's face it, in these days of harsh economic realities, annual support of Notre Dame is just about the most important service we can perform for a school that has given us some of the best years of our lives. Check out your class, then check your own involvement. Are you with it? — James D. Cooney, Executive Director, ND Alumni Assoc. 
Two Holy Cross priests, once pre­fects of religion at ND, though of dif­ferent eras, have been associated in the same work at Saint Mary's College for the past two years. Rev. Glenn Boannan CSC* prefect from 1958 to 1962, has been director of campus ministry and Rev. John Cavanaugh CSC prefect 1934-40 (later, president of the University and director of the Foundation), associate director. Re­cently they talked about how their work has changed with the times. 
"Fr. O'Hara's idea," says Fr. Cav­anaugh of his predecessor in the pre­fect-of-religion office, "that Christ could do more for students than he could and that, therefore, the thing to do was to get them to Him is as valid as ever, but the manner and means are different today." And Fr. Boar-man adds, "Today, the approach to campus ministry must be broader and the minister must be ready to move with the students, rather than be avail­able at all hours in an office, the con­fessional or chapel." Both priests agree that while today's students may not be as committed to daily Mass and the sacraments, most are, nevertheless, deeply concerned with what it is to be a Christian and will ultimately come to the realization that the Mass is the "indispensable source of the true Christian spirit." 
Fr. Boarman feels that the job of the campus minister is not so much to provide students with support for their faith as to help them become well-informed, thinking Catholics, in­volved in social-action projects as well as traditional religious activities. But in his talks with students, Fr. Cavan­augh emphasizes that humanitarian service must not become a substitute for superhatural Christian faith. "Such service," he says, "requires divine 
*Fr. Boarman has recently resigned his 
position at SMC to take the Job as director 
of Campus Ministry at United States Inter­
national U. and Southwestern College, both 
in the San Diego area. 

DM Faces-Hew Places 
action and must be accomplished with the right motive: to serve Christ in others;" 
Both Fr. Boarman and Fr. Cavan­augh stress the importance of the students' profound craving to be understood. To achieve such under­standing involves meeting them where they are: in the halls, on the campus, at meals, at lectures and social events, in pastoral counseling sessions, at demonstrations—as well as in the Mass and the sacraments. (In all-out dedication to this principle of avail­ability, on most mornings not long after dawn, Fr. Cavanaugh can be seen jogging around the Saint Mary's campus, sometimes with a student or two.) 
Fr. Boarman (left) and Fr. Cavanaugh greet St. Mary's students outside Le Mans Hall at SMC. 
Such understanding also requires endless and creative listening. "Stu­dent concerns," notes Fr. Cavanaugh, "are the old standbys: faith, sex, their careers, the infallibility of the Pope and so on. But they're broader now. The students are deeply caught up in movements devoted to ending the war, the draft, racism, poverty, air-water-noise pollution and injustice of all kinds." 
So-called "situation ethics," the "new morality," and the role of peer opinion in arbitrating what is good and evil add a new dimension to stu­dent counselling today, according to the two priests. "By the time students reach the campus, most have been influenced by the 'new' views, whether they realize it or not," Fr. Cavanaugh believes; "they are products of our permissive society—homes, schools, television, theatre, friends—and they sometimes fail to recognize this same permissiveness when they encounter it at the university or college level. It takes a strong character, a person of much discipline, to sort out the truth and survive the confusion. Our job is to help them, not just by negative preaching, but by assisting them to discover positive values to live by." 
Fr. Boannan and Fr. Cavanaugh agree that an effective campus min­istry today requires more than what the priest alone can give. The ideal is to involve everyone on campus: religious and lay faculty, students, and staff. Says Fr. Boannan, "Campus ministry today must be a team effort on the part of those assigned to it full time. But CM (campus ministry) could also be translated 'common ministry'—it's got to be by everyone to everyone else, a common effort to build a total Christian community in a college setting. To offer leadership here is our task." 
Rev. John Wilson CSC BoxD Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Class Mates 
50-YEAR CLUB 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC speaking at the Reunion *71 Alumni 
Banquet referred to Notre Dame men as belonging to the Notre Dame Family. 
Hope that the spirit will prevail on the campus and that a nod. Hi or Hello will be exchanged when passing one another especially at Reunion time. Sure was "put over the barrel" about the poem on STAN COFFAL. Nevertheless was most pleased as it proved that they are reading the ALUMNUS. Emil Klosinski, author of the book Pro Football in the days of Rockne. Enjoyed reading autographed copy mailed me. Emil stated "Stan was my father's buddy and had a couple of dates with my dad's sister while Stan was an undergrad." 
Pleased to learn that JESSE J. HERR PhB. '13 is enjoying good health and is actively practicing law with his son JAMES 
J. HERR '54. So active we are unable to get him to take a vacation. So writes JOHN S. HERR '50, whose uncle is STEPHEN H. HERR C E '10. 

Would greatly appreciate if JIM O'DONNELL of Drexel Hill, Pa., would drop me a card. That reminds me that I have not answered JOSEPH F. FLYNN's LLB. '17 letter of 4-1-71. Sincerely trust that his wife, Armette, is enjoying much better health. 
Birthday Greetings: SepL 9, HAROLD 
5. FOLEY PhB. Com. '21, 626 W. Pender St., Vancouver, B.C.; Sept. 13, JOSEPH M. WALSH E.E. '14, 707 W. Fifth Ave., Spokane, Wash. 99204; GEORGE L. SULLIVAN E.E. "20, 57 Oakwood Dr., Packanack Lake, NJ . 07471; Sept. 24, PHILIP J. PHILLIP S.M.E. '12, 14525 Kercheval Ave., Detroit, Mich. 48215; Sept. 27, DANIEL C. ROBERTS '20, Box 6, Greenbank, Wash. 98253; Oct I, JOSEPH 
H. SILK '20, 606 .Mack St., Joliet, 111. 60435; Oct. 3, JAMES R. RECORD '04, 2021 Hawthorne, F t Worth, Tex. 76110; Oct. 5, PETER J. RONCRETn Ch.E. '18, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. 78404; LOUIS J. RNSKE LL.B. '19, Box 40, Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. 32082; Oct. 7, THOMAS H. KING Ph.B. '18, 37 Cham­berry Circle, Apt 306, Louisville, Ky. 40200; Oct. 9, THOMAS C. HUGHES ME '11, 1738 Upas St, San Diego, Calif. 92103; Oct 13, M. G. KAZUS LL.B. '18, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216; Oct 14, JOSEPH T. RILEY LL.B. '18, 2122 Maryland Dr., Muskegon, Mich. 49441; Oct 19, H. THOMAS LAVERY LL.B. '19, 1733 W. 106 St, Chicago, lU. 60643; Oct 29, \VILLIAM A GRADY '17, Box 596, Carrollton, Tex. 75006 and Oct 31, EDWARD J. STORY Ph.G. '11, 401 N. Jefferson, Elk City, Okla. 73644. 
Sincerely hope you and yours enjoyed the summer months and had a pleasant vacation. May you now be "all set" to continue with the best of health plus contentedness—until you're one hundred. 
Peace. 

George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, III. 60647 
FALL CLASS REUNIONS 
MICHIGAN STATE—Oct. 2 
1928—Center for Continuing Education 1929—Reunion area, Atiiletic & Convocation Center 1966—Reunion area, Athletic & Convocation Center 1968—Monogram Room 
NORTH CAROLINA—Oct. 16 
Student Managers, Past and Present Center for Continuing Education 


SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA—Oct. 23 
1930—^To be announced. 1931—Reunion area, Athletic & Convocation Center 1949—Reunion area, Athletic & Convocation Center 1952—Mahogany Room, Morris Inn 
1953—To be announced. 1964—^To be announced. 

To arrange reunions contact the Notre Dame 
Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'15 CHEERFUL NOTE 28.1%* 
A very cheerful note was recived from our 
good friend, GEORGE B. WAAGE '18. 
It was nice to know that I was missed at 
the June Reum'on. Am sorry to have missed 
WILLIAM M. CARROLL SR. LL.B. '15 
of 621 W. Judd St, Woodstock, 111. 60098 
and EDWARD F. RIELY LL.B. "15, 
Minok, 11). 61760. George thought I might 
be ill so I am glad to report that I am 
feeling fine. 
A welcome note of thanks came from 
JAMES C. FENESY '14 who had a birth­
day on June 16. Jim resides at 1705 Davie 
Blvd., F t Lauderdale, Fla. 33312. He in­
formed me that WILLIAM J. REDDEN'14, 
125 N.E 10th Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, had 
taken him to lunch on his 81st joined by 
ERNEST J. BAADER '13. 2500 N.E 9th 
St, Ft. Lauderdale. After lunch they 
journeyed to Pompano Beach where ihey 
visited CHARLES W. BACHMAN '17 at 
11 Sunset Lane, and JOSEPH F. FLYNN 
'17. "In all. Bill showed me a good after­
noon with an elegant lunch and time to 
spend with old Notre Damers." 
JOHN A. WELCH '15 sends a happy note from his insurance office in Indianap­olis, Ind. "How did you pick out my 75th birthday? June 24 is the feast of St. John the Baptist a date that goes back to John Cardinal O'Hara's Eucharistic League at ND in 1912. 
"Last Saturday I attended my grand­daughter's wedding to an ND grad, STEPHEN F. JOHN '69, from Falls Church, Va. The bride graduated from St Mary's in 1970. She was Mary C. Shiel of Decatur, 111. Father ERNEST J. BARTELL CSC '53, performed the ceremony." 
John's mention of Cardinal O'Hara when he was still a student reminds me of many visits to Old College where he and my brother, HENRY J. KUHLE '11, LL.B. '13 were among the privileged half dozen who roomed there. I treasure an autographed picture of the cardinal. 
Following is a letter from JAMES E ARMSTRONG '25 on "Moral Values" which will be of interest to readers of ALUMNUS: 
"Two articles in the (South Bend) Tribune of June 14 disturbed me because they point so clearly to the moral collapse of our country. One, a feature on 'Is Marriage Obsolete?' seemed to indicate acceptance of much of our moral chaos. The other voiced advocacy of the con­tinuing on the payroll of employees who steal from their employers as long as they remain moderate. . . ." 
On the subject of morals I must acknowledge receipt of a letter from Mrs. JOHN F. HART '52 who was kind enough to say that she had seen my column in the ALUMNUS. The purpose of the letter was to pass on to me that Dr. Charles E Rice, professor of constitutional law at ND "has done a great work defending the sanctity of human life." My attention also was called to a book "Let Us Be Bom" on the inhumanity of abortion, by Robert 
E. and Mary R. Joyce which can be obtained from the Franciscan Herald Press, 1434 W. 51st St, Chicago, 111. 60609. Mrs. Hart informed me that "the Joyces are a philosopher husband and wife team who studied some at ND." The Harts live at 607 
N. Polk St., Little Rock, Ark. 72205. A very welcome letter was received from HUGH A BARNHART '15 of 117 W. 8th St, Rochester, Ind. 46975, who on July 14 celebrated a birthday. He informed me that while activities are growing less and less each year, he is still active in the business founded by his father. He is chairman of the board of the Rochester Telephone Co., and president of the Sentinel Corp., which publishes a daily newspaper. "Quite some time ago," he continues, "I 
served m"ne years in the state government and later had one of those dollar-a-year 

'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
jobs in Washington—however I never was 
paid my dollar." 
He says that he and Mrs. Bamhart live 

on Lake Manitou and still enjoy life. Hugh 
says he always sees a few old ND friends 
on visits to Indianapolis "which helped 
me to relive the old days in Walsh Hall 
when I played basketball against Corby 
Hall whose players were members of the 
football team." 
I regret the necessity of reporting the 

deaths of two ND alumni. JOHN W. 
SCHINDLER "09 on April 27. He is 
survived by Mrs. Schindler at 810 Lincoln 
Way E., Mishawaka, Ind. 46544. A son, 
JOHN W. JR. '43, also survives. FRANK 
O. BARTEL 'IS died May 7. Masses were said at ND for John on July 18 and for Frank on July 25. Eternal rest grant unto these men of Notre Dame, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, 111. 60525 
'16 GOOD OLD DAYS 19.3%* 
Here I am up in the woods of Northern 
Wisconsin, felling trees (65-70 ft. tall), 
wonderful swimming, fishing, food and 
friends and a note must get to ND now. 
I have my old ND albums of pictures—I 
was photographer for the Dome, 1912-13. 
GUS DORAIS was the country's best 
quarterback and kicker, JOE BYRNE was 
cheerleader, ROCKNE was end, HEINE 
BERGER left halfback, RAY EICHER­
LAUB all west fullback, DEAK JONES 
left tackle, LOE PLISKA halfback, AL 
FEENEY center, etc., etc. Thursday was 
"Reck" Day—or military drill in the a.m., 
chow at Mike & Hullies. The Novitiate, 
across the lake, burned. 
Father Burke and Father Farley drove to town in a buggy to catch "skivers." Mr. Studebaker came out to visit school in his open while car. Cap. Stogsdale was in charge of drills assisted by Sgt. Campbell. The marble champion demoralized class for a few weeks. MIKE NIGRO (doctor now) was Corby's star fielder. JESSE HARPER was football coach and EDWARDS was his assistant. Now I look at a picture of the ND mob doing the bear dance the night before the So. Dakota game at ND. The old wooden bleachers collapsed during the game—no injuries. I'll close with "Tony" and his popcorn wagon and horse. I have all the above in pictures and lots more. Tnose were the good old days. 
Grover F. Miller 
I20S S. Main St. 
Racine, Wis. 53403 
'17 A ROMAN BUST 27%* 
Well, another class reunion has come and 
gone and to be truthful, it was a Roman 
bust or as grandpa used to say, you could 
count them on your fist. There are many 
reasons no doubt, such as our devoted class president, who never misses, 
BERNARD VOLL with Ina, his wife, who 
had a foot operation at the Mayo Clinic, 
and others who were sick or had an 
accident the same week-end. So let's forget 
it and start now to build for the big one 
next year, the fifty-fifth, if there are any of us left. The two big questions to be decided by you are: 
Do we want our wives like some of the classes had this year? Shall we try for a private dining room of our own for the 55th? 
Your class Secretary, the Goat, does not have the time, the health or the facilities to present these matters in a personal letter. We would like to discuss them from time to time in our class column and have you tell us what you would like. There may be some '17ers who cannot make it for some legitimate reason and we would like to have 
you (ell us now, so we will know if we have 
a potential of 20, 30, 40 or 50 to attend. 
Back to the big question. Do you want to 
bring your wife to the class dinner and 
alumni banquet? Or, does your wife want 
to come? No efibrt has been made for a 
private dining room for our class dinner 
and none can be made until we can 
guarantee a certain number, probably, 20. 
Then we will ail know one another. 
The Alumni Office has reported the 
passing of JOHN M. MILLER on March 
28 of Sun City, Calif., who was with us at 
our previous reunion. A fine gentleman, a 
great fullback and very successful in his 
profession. Cards and letters may be 
addressed to his family at 25921 Cherry 
Hills Blvd., Sun City, Calif. 92380. 
They also told us that WILLIAM C. 
(CRIM) O'BRIAN, E.E. has passed away. 
Crim was a quiet, easygoing and well­
likcd member of the '17ers. Letters and 
cards of sympathy may be addressed to 
Mrs. William C. O'Brian, P.O. Box 277, 
Sturgis, Mich. 49091. Please remember 
these two well-Uked and popular 'I7ers in 
your prayers. 
Dan R Hilgartner, Jr. 
1701 Turtle Creek Drive, North 
South Bend, Ind. 46637 
'18 TAKEN TO TASK 24.3%* 
"De Judge," JOSEPH T. RILEY LL.B. '18, 
took me to task regarding the STAN 
COFFAL poem. AH I can state is that 
they are reading the ALUMNUS. Have not 
heard from PETER J. RONCHETTI, but 
have talked with "BIG FRANK" RYD­
ZEWSKI. Frank put me straight as Rydzew­
ski played for Stan profession.'dly. Then 
there is a "guy" named BERT SENG. You 
are not getting by with anything on Bert, so 
the phone rings and I have to listen. 
Sorry to report that last I talked with 
MAX KAZUS his wife was still in hospital. 
Max "kinda" thought he'd make a trip to 
Chicago, but I question it. 
Pleased to state that NEIL (Whitey) WHALEN and Rosemary are "all set" for the football season. Gotta cut this "chit­chat" short. I'm "hightailing" to my sister. Her husband is in the hospital with a stroke. 
May you all be enjoying the best of 
health is my sincere wish. 
Peace. 

George B. Waage 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60647 
PLAN 2-YEAR 
REUNION 22.9%^ 
 '21 

Eighteen of the 63 living members of the class attended the 50-year reunion. Nine brought their wives. JOE MAAG had made arrangements to come, but called just a few days before saying he was recuperating in the hospital and would not be able to make it AL SCHMITT, too, was not able to be here because of illness. And, as you know, DAN DUFFY, who never missed a reunion, went to his eternal reward a couple of weeks before. 
At a meeting on the evening of June 11, the class elected JAKE KLINE president and RAY SCHUBMEHL secretary and treasurer. The members also approved a resolution indicating that the ranks could be rather thin in another five years; therefore, the next reunion for the class should be in 1973 rather than 1976. Everybody re­ported a grand time. It may be added here that JOE BRANDY was at his best at the reunion with his "you wouldn't believe it" stories. Sorry to report that Joe has since died (see On Record). A Mass for Joe has been arranged in the name of the class. He was past president of the Monogram Club and also past president of the Northern New York ND Club. 
Ray Schubmehl 1622 McKinley South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'22 50TH COMING UP 21.3%* 
We of '22 extend to our beloved classmate EMILE JOHN HILKERT, 1821 E. Willetta St, Phoenix, Ariz., our sympathy and beseech your prayers for the repose of the souls of four members of the Hilkert family who died within the past year. The deceased are: His wife, Priscilla; a sister. Sister Mary Norbertine, and two brothers Robert and Carl. Mrs. Hilkert died on June 3. 
Emile John was dean of the College of Business Administration at Arizona State 
U. in 1933. He may be No. 1 man on our class roster in degree awards. 
Already much interest is being generated by "22 men in connection with plans for the most important of all of our class reunions —the 50th or golden anniversaiy on the ND campus in June 1972. Of course, we do not anticipate a greater attendance than we enjoyed at some of our past five-year re­unions but if all those who failed to show at earlier reunions will make gallant efforts to be in attendance next year, plus those who never fail to show, we could very well have a showing worthy of our great class. We have never failed to show a good attendance and this is no time to falter. Soon the very important reunion committee from South Bend and the St Joseph Valley will be reactivated—such stalwarts as RANGY MILES. HAROLD WEBER, PAT MANION. PAUL PADEN, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, WALTER SHILTS and Father SIGMUND JANKOWSKI CSC are awaiting the starter's whistle. We long for the return of our classmates from Central America, South America and from countries overseas. 
At present HARRY DENNY, 1503 Shenandoah St, Los Angeles, Calif. 90035 is high man on the totem pole. He is the farthest removed from the ND campus who has indicated he hopes to attend our 50th. 
Congratulations and best wishes continue to pour in for Doctor EDDIE ANDER­SON, former football coach at Holy Cross College and the U. of Iowa, one of only two football coaches elected to the 1971 Football Hall of Fame. It shall not be forgotten that Doctor Eddie is one of the few coaches who, as coach of the. College All-Stars football team, was able to forge out a real victory over the opposing pro­fessionals. Eddie's current address is the Mansfield Training School and Hospital, Mansfield, Conn. 06251. 
Gerald (Kid) Ashe 175 Landing Rd., North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 LONG, COOL SUMMER 9.8%' 
Time Gallops On ... ED KREIMER is now a grrar-grandfather. So proud that he forgot to say ND or St. Mary's. Anyhow a Yankee Doodle Dandy bom on the Fourth of July. , . . How many other greats do we have in our class? Ed reports a new address for PAUL CASTNER: 1625 Cedar Lane, Newport Minn. 55055 . . . Ed is about to close the Class Membership list for printine and distribution to us by the Alumni Office. So if you have any changes send to our hard-working Veep at 2827 Westbrook Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. . . . The Kreimers and Gin Bruggner visited with the ART DIEDRICHs in July. 
Hope the national chairman and the local chairman of our Golden Dome Reunion did some conferring; and isn't it nice they are so chummy? 
Hiways and Byways . . . Kreimer's letter was the sum total of class communications; perhaps because the sec and spouse have been sampling summer weather in Cocoa Beach, Fla.—^which is great as long as the Atlantic Ocean and air-conditioning hold out (I was invited to watch the July 26 Moon Shot from close up in the Mutual Broadcasting radio booth.) Maybe other class members are also vacationing; so to fill up this space, let's also take to the hiways and byways. 
Hollywood . . . VERNON (Tex) RICKARD reports on stationery of the Hollywood Comedy Club of which he is monologist; but this typed monolog wasn't funny. It seems that word of the Man of the Year Award and other campus capers has penetrated the smog and the over-thirties look longingly back to the Rockne, Nieuwiand, O'Hara, O'Donnell backfield. NICK LUKATS, who was as good a halfback one day against Army as any human would dare to be, revisited the actor-phase of his career during the summer. Nick now h'ves at Barberton, Ohio. 
John Campbell . . . Tex added his to the cheers for JOHN CAMPBELL for the work he did in organizing the Los Angeles chapter of Sports & Games imder the chairmanship of DR. LEO TURGEON . . . John is really for real and just what dear old S&G has needed. In late June he did a similar job in the place most needed— New York City. Here is the group he gathered in GENE CONNALY's restaurant June 23: FRED CARIDEO. JOHN BALFE, JAMES J. O'NEAL, JOHN H. BEGLEY, JOHN A. HO"yT, FRED A. JOYCE, GERALD F. SAEGERT, WILLIAM F. MURPHY, JIM McGOLDRICK and JOE 
F. CAMPBELL (John's brother). Pres­tigious guests were Jimmie McDowell, secretary of the National Football Hall of Fame and Eugene H. Alnwick, president of Mutual Sports who really should also be listed in capital letters because he is the man behind the Irish radio network which brings us the football games each Saturday afternoon. And (plug) The Fighting Irish record. 
There was real dedication among these tried-and-true veterans of so many ND causes. Fred Carideo switched an out­of-town date to take over as chairman; and he will be a real leader. John Campbell assembled this group after weeks of preparation . . . Nor was that all by any means. New York is supposed to be no town to walk around in these days. I wouldn't know because I was usually in the back seat of a chaufTeured limousine with John and brother Joe. Bob Hall, one of the top administrators in college football, couldn't make our luncheon but we got together at 21. We caught up with 'Toots Shor and his son Roiy; and the young man promised to search among the papers of his father. This could be a treasure trove. 
Name-Dropping? . . . Yes but with a purpose; for these casual contacts reveal what can be done once Fred Carideo's team 
. gets to operating. At the luncheon I mentioned several such possibilities and Jack Hoyt volunteered to contact Wellington Mara of the Football Giants and Gene Tunney. And that just about sums it up: One of our people knows or does business with potential donors of collections. He talks to him. It may take a while but people are very friendly to ND. Every so often the city committee gets together and talks things over. . . 
Harvey Foster . . . That's what the Chicago committee has been doing for five years now; and results are showing. DAVE CONDON gave his entire column in the Chicago Tribune to the acquisition of microfilms of the Avery Brundage papers, a tremendous catch. HARVEY FOSTER'S group has other notable captures and prospects. Nor does Harvey stop there. 

Because of him we have Fred Carideo in 
New York. And Har>ey has volunteered to 
go to New York, San Francisco or where-
ever else American Airlines flies into to 
help organize city groups. 
Dave Warner . . . Meanwhile, up at 
Rochester, DAVE WARNER has climaxed 
several years of patient plugging by making 
a very solid contact with Eastman Kodak. 
We already have some of the Eastman 
material and there will be more. So let's 
hear it for Foster, Campbell, Warner, 
Carideo, team, team, TEAM. 
Francis Wallace 
4615 Guernsey SL 
Bellaire,- O. 43906 
'24 LOOK TO '74 16.9%" 
As these notes are written in mid-July for the September issue of Ann^NUS, it is a little early to pubUsh any results of the balloting for class officers. It has been a growing opinion of mine that when we vote in public elections, we have such little intimate knowledge of the candidates and complex issues that we are expressing our feelings against candidates and issues that we know a little about and do not approve. We have quite a difierent situation in class elections. We would be well served by any of the candidates. We would hope that they would bring some new h'fe to Class of '24 activities and especially at our grandreunion in 1974, Only by our votes will we know who are the most "popular" leaders. To use the hip jargon, we need a speed pill, not a tranquilizer, lime alone has supplied the latter. We want to make that 50th reunion one to remember for our twilight days. 
EDWARD TIGHE, mentioned once before in these columns, and onetime roommate of mine and my brother Bill's (in an end suite in Walsh H^l, and next door to Father JOHN O'HARA) died in Long Island on July 5. Ed finished his law course at Fordham U., and, for some time after graduation, worked for the City of New York as public defender (legal aid). We knew him as a very empathic counselor. Mass was said at ND by Rev. William Toohey on July 11 in remembrance of Ed. 
These class notes are for your pleasure .. . a place to see an old dassmate's name which should bring back some nostalgic memories. We will continue to insert names at random and hope it will stimulate more of the silent majority to send us notes of past history or present activities. How about FRANK DUFHCY in New York City; RAY FLAHERTY in Birmingham; J. HENRY FANNAN in Chicago; DAR­ROLD GOOLEY in North Hollywood; LEVI A. GENIESSE in Green Bay; TOM HODGSON in Chanhassen, Minn, (surely that is a suburb of someplace else); ED HUETHER of Richmond, Ind.; HAROLD HOLDERMAN of Mishawaka (there were some pretty giris in Mishawaka in 1923); DR. DAVID KING of Alger, Ohio; and MARK KREUTZBR of San Mateo. Names like these and many more should remind us that there are many in our class we would like to know better. 
Somehow ELMER LAYDEN "25 got into our Class of '24 list . . . must have been a fullback plunge through center. We know he meant a lot to all of us in '24, but cojid I possibly be wrong? Isn't he officially '25? 
We will sien off with some very familiar names like ED CANTWELL who is spear­heading the class election project and a mighty fine job. He surely made it easy and convenient to vote. And the Hon. THOMAS DONOVAN who, we hope, is busy tallying your votes. We owe them a word of acknowledgment and appreciation. 
This column's notes were just about to be sealed and mailed when a phone call was received from LEO HARINGER who has been on a tour of the West from San Francisco to Vancouver, B.C., and is now on his way back home to Normal, HI., via Boise, "Kukamunga and points East." Leo recently returned to campus where he found many changes and many remaining points of interest. The physical changes didn't seem to bother him but the social changes were so obvious to him that he couldn't resist letting Father Hesburgh know about his feelings. Leo felt the old school needed to be turned back to some of the old traditional standards. I'm sure we could open a subject here that would polarize even the most placid alumni. My own answer is to consider it as a grandparent should behave in regard to grandchildren . . . love 'em but leave the discipline to the parents. 
Here are a few of the 24ers who are shifting around a little. JOE RYAN has left the campus and is now in Chicago, 1360 Lake Shore Drive zip 60610; CHARLES DeBARRY moved uptown a few blocks to 320 E. 53rd St. in N.Y.C. 10022. LEWIS FRICKE did about the same in South Bend, and HENRY THENKLE in Dubuque, la. The big hop was made by Rev. JOHN W. KANE CSC who returned to Holy Cross House NDU 46556 . . . from Dacca, East Pakistan, India. 
Don't wait for your obituary, drop me 
a card even if you have to talk about 
your grandchildren. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 SW Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 CROWLEY SPEAKS 14.8%* 
GEORGE FITZGERALD writes that their 
only child, a daughter, was married in May. 
Geo. and his wife are moving to a new 
address, 6 Dorchester Dr., Vincentown, 
NJ. He said all were well and happy. Good 
to hear from you, George. 
JAMES H. CROWLEY was the principal 
speaker at the 47th annual dinner of the 
Transportation Club of Rochester, N.Y. 
in May. 
HANK WURZER passed on a note from JOHN D. MAHON saying he had a couple of interesting letters from RAY DECOURCEY and appreciated hearing from him. John has been ill for some time and though he is up and around to some extent, he is unable to do very much due to "numbness" in his Umbs but gets pleasure out of reading. Any of you '25ers who knew John can send him a note at 2301 Forestdale Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
A card from MARK MOONEY '26 saying he enjoyed his 45th reunion. He was invited to a champagne brunch at St. Mary's where he saw a lot of our mutual friends. He said most of them oppose the merger but are preparing to relax and enjoy it. Mark is still a "Mfg. Rep." in air-conditioning in Florida, making his home at 4525 S. Gaines Rd., Tampa. 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'26 CHANGES NOTED 22.1%* 
What a change in 45 years—39 of the "26 group enjoyed the air-conditioned luxury of the new high-rise Flanner Hall. The Alumni Office and the grad students 
assigned to look after us all did a great job; they were tops. In addition to those listed last month, Rog Nolan was among those present. JIM VALLELY of the class of '27 was back for the first time in years. Many of us knew him and were glad to have him with us. 
Father HOWARD KENNA CSC said our 

*Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
Like a fleeting glimpse of early 
Americana, Rev. James E. Norton 
CSC '29, Catholic chaplain at Phil­
mont Scout Ranch and Explorer Base, 
Cimarron, N.M., appears at services in 
the towering Sangre de Cristo moun­
tains in the guise of a circuit-riding 
chaplain—^vintage 1871. 
Exchanging the traditional Phil­mont four-wheel-drive vehicle for a horse. Father Norton, like his counter­parts a cintury ago, dons chaps and spurs, totes necessary equipment for Mass in his saddlebags and travels to the far comers of the sprawling 214­square-mile ranch to carry the word of God to many of the 15,000 Scouts who come to hike Philmont's trails each summer. 
"Holding services along the trail— setting up an altar on tree trunks or large boulders—gives Scouts a deeper sense of reverence and a profundity to God," Father Norton explains. "And they enjoy seeing me hold services in a western outfit!" 
Traveling 10 to 12 miles daily, the chaplain will stop dozens of times to perform religious services or to "just talk" with Scouts on the trail. 
The idea of the circuit-riding chaplaincy originated last summer, according to the Holy Cross priest. Long-experienced in horsemanship. Father Norton approached Philmont's horse department foreman, Lawrence Sanchez, with the idea. "Sanchez agreed to supply a horse for me, so every chance, I ride trails, both exis­tent and nonexistent, to hold ser­vices," Father Norton explains. 
Riding over narrow, twisting trails, often hundreds of feet above rocky stream beds, can be a harrowing ex­perience, Father Norton notes, and not one for novices. "One must have extreme confidence in his horse and his horsemanship," he says. 
Father Norton, former vice presi­dent of student affairs at ND, also has served as assistant director of studies and was on the faculty of St. Edward's U., Austin, Tex., before his wartime service as a Marine Corps chaplain. His chaplain duties took him to Cherry Point, N.C., Santa Barbara, Calif., and the Western Pacific. 
The circuit-riding priest began his 

CIRCUIT RIDER 
riding career in the late 30's while he was teaching at St Edward's U. Since then, he has spent a great deal of time in the saddle. "While I served as a faculty staff member at Notre Dame, I had many opportunities to ride with friends from the Manion Arab Horse Ranch, located near the University," he explains. 
Now serving as associate director of admissions at the U. of Portland, Portland, Ore., Father Norton finds the surrounding area ideal for his riding skills. "I was fortunate to ac­company a group of Explorer Scouts on a week-long horseback expedition into the rugged back country of Oregon," he recalls. "We carried a bedroll and saddlebags and took pack-horses for equipment." 
An avid scouter, the priest has served as a member of the executive board and the advisory board of the Columbia Pacific Council, headquar­
k 

tered in Portland. "I wish I had been more active in Scouting during my youth," he says. "I've gotten much more out of Scouting than I've been able to give. I guess my greatest in­terest in Scouting is Philmont" 
As a circuit rider. Father Norton, chaplain at the national Scout ranch since 1962, has many experiences he will cherish. "The chance to view the beauty surrounding the lush green meadows and the high, towering peaks of Philmont is a rare privilege in this age of rush, rush, rush. It's nice to travel at a slow gait and enjoy nature at its finest," he notes. 
Philmont, which annually hosts more than 25,000 Scouts and scouters in its many varied programs, has been dubbed by the visitors "God's Country." 
Father Norton wholeheartedly agrees—and it's entirely possible that he is one of the reasons for it 
• ^ ^ -•:-•, 
-•Hr**^-'./^'-' 

.^"oafi 
Slopping to chat with a group of Scouts on the trail at fMlmont Scout Ranch and Explorer Base, Father James Norton carries his ministry to thoiaands of Scoutx in the manner of the old circuit-riding ministers of a century ago. 
class Mass Saturday morning. We were late 
starting and had some trying moments until 
we found the key to the locker that 
contained the vestments and other Mass 
essentials. 
Several had indicated they would make 
the reunion but for various reasons did not 
come, JACK ADAMS, VINCE CAP AND, 
LES CLARKE, PAUL JACKSON, GERRY 
McGINLEY, STEVE PIETROWICZ and 
JIM RONAN. 
We heard from IZZY PROBST. He had 
a boy graduating that weekend down 
Florida way. We missed him. A note from 
BILL FOOHEY reported illness in the 
family prevented his coming. Also a note 
from M. A. (Al) NOLAN said he would 
try for the 50th. Illness kept JIM PEAR­
SON away and the loss of a leg stopped 
PETE LA CAVA. 
JOHN PROBST did not arrive until 
Sunday morning but that removed him 
from the missing list. He has retired and 
has a new home on a lake near Three 
Rivers, Mich. 
DR. BERT COUGHLIN had a couple 
of anxious days. They let him off the plane 
at South Bend but not his baggage. It 
caueht up with him Saturday. 
RUDY GOEPFRICH saw that everyone 
had their favorite beverage. Rudy and wife, 
Nellie, took off for a trip to Alaska the 
week following the reunion. 
The new officers for the next five years, 
the Lord willing, are MALCOLM KNAUS, 
president; ART HALEY, treasurer and 
FRANK DEITLE, secretary. 
The only sad note of the weekend was word from Tom Farrell that my old room­mate in Freshman Hall JIM (Monk) WALDRON had passed on. The Lord rest his soul, we all liked Monk. 
Frank A. Deitle 
1763 Kessler Blvd. 
South Bend, Ind. 46616 
'28 THE FORMERLY SILENT 17.6%* 
I am pleased to be able to bring you up to date on a number of classmates who wrote for the first time in many years. It makes me feel as if my 43 years of effort were not in vain when I received a note from WALLACE (Gus) MacDONALD of Farmington, Conn., who retired in 1969 as secretary-treasurer of the Connecticut National Gas Corp. and who has 21 grand­children. Gus observed "You finally got me. Many times I've been tempted to answer one of your pleas, but, by lying down for a few minutes, I could always overcome the temptation. Now, let me see you raise HARRY SCHUBMEHL and CLARK WALLACE" Believe it or not, I did get a response also from Harry Schubmehl from Wayland, N.Y. He retired four years ago as su{)ervisor of reproduction with Foster Wheeler Corp. I hope Clark Wallace responds to the challenge given to me by Wallace MacDonald. 
Other formerly silent classmates who finally responded include the following: ED BRESNAHAN wrote from his summer place at a lake near Cromwell, Ind., advising that just prior to RAY MULLI­GAN'S sudden death, Ray, who had been out of touch with him since 1928, had tried unsuccessfully to reach Ed by phone at his home in Omaha. Ed retired from the Retail Credit Co. in 1969 after 35 years of service. He is a widower and spends time between Omaha and Lake Papakeechie in Indiana. WALTER LAYNE wrote from Palo Alto, Cal., where he lives after having retired in 1966 as editor and writer for the Dell Publishing Co. 
My unpleasant assignment of reporting deaths of classmates continues with the following: FRANK HOLDAMPF died in Milwaukee on May 7. Although he had a chronic painful illness for a number of years, Frank continued his work as a consulting and designing professional engineer in Milwaukee. He is survived by his wife and three children. Frank attended all of our class reunions. VICTOR ZIMMERMANN died on June 22 in Scars-dale, N.Y., after a long illness although he carried on his food brokerage business unUl near the end. CARL PETTERSCH wrote that he had had lunch with Vic and his wife just two months before Vic's death. Vic has a son at Holy Cross College. Thanks also to JOHN GRUNING "27 for writing from Brooklyn concerning Vic's death and for John's kind reference to me as "the one class secretary who really watches out for his flock." 

LESTER HEGELE died on June 25 in San Diego, Cal., where he had retired last January as associate editor of The Southern Cross, the diocesan newspaper, and was eulogized as a "true apostle of the Catholic press." Les died following intestinal surgery. He wai a widower and is survived by three daughters, nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Thanks to FRANK DONOVAN for advising me of Les' death. 
DONALD BALDWIN, LL.B. '29, died in Danville, 111., on Feb. 17 after a short iUness. Don, a practicing attorney in Dan­ville and past president of the Vermilion County Bar Assn., was a member of the American College of Trial Lawyers and a leader in the field of judicial ethics. Don was single and is survived by his sister, Eleanor Baldwin of Danville. 
Congratulations to JIM SHOCKNESSY on his appointment as chairman of the Board of Trustees of Ohio State U.; to Judge GEORGE BEAMER '29 on giving the commencement address and receiving an honorary LL.B. degree from Ashland College; to BOB HAMILTON for winning first prize in the "Pan American Every Employee a Salesman" contest which took him and his family on a flight to Rome, Beirut, Bangkok, Hong Kong and Tokyo; to GENE FARRELL on becoming com­mander of Newark Bay Squadron, a unit of U.S.P.S.; to Judge ROBERT GRANT on receipt of the Silver Beaver award of the Tri-Valley Council, Boy Scouts of America. Judge Beamer and GEORGE SCHEUER, who had previously received this award, the hghest council award in scouting, par­ticipated in this presentation ceremony. 
Add the following to our list of retirees: BOB HAMILTON (30 years with Pan American), LES CARRIG (13 years with Field Enterprises Educational Corp.) ED DEAN (18 years with Great Lakes Carbon Corp.), TERRENCE DONAHUE (20 years with Eastchester, N.Y., public schools), FRANK GALARDY (28 years with Auto­matic Telephone Services, Inc.), ART MITIGUY (43 years with Burlington Drug Co.), FRED PFORTNER (42 years with Indianapolis Power & Light Co.), and HAROLD CANAVAN (38 years with N.Y. State, Division of Parole). 
CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, who had been a widower, was married in October 1970. Add ED DIRINGER to our list of great­grandfathers, with two great-grandchildren. 
Here's the final reminder—Let JOE DORAN and ED QUINN know the number in your party if you plan to attend the '28 get-togethers following the Purdue and Michigan State games respectively. Joe's address is R.R. 1, I.afayette, Indiana 47906, and Ed's is 426 N. Sunnyside Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46617. The 16th Annual 
•28 Cocktail Party will be held after the Michigan State game in the Continuing Education Center across from the Morris Inn. The entrance to the Center is through an underground concourse from the lower floor of the Inn. 
Our Class Treasurer, JOE LANGTON, has been hospitalized in Chicago for surgery and treatment of a leg ailment. Joe's Chicago classmates kept in touch with him while he was in Chicago. As you know, Joe has been kept busy arranging with 
priests in our class to say Masses for the 
increasing number of deceased classmates. 
JOHN LARSEN advised that JOE 
DEBOTT had a heart seizure while at work 
at Geneva Federal Savings Bank in Geneva, 
N.Y., prior to his recent retirement John 
Larsen retired last year from the Seneca 
County (N.Y.) Department of Health in 
Waterloo. N.Y. PHIL QUINN is making 
progress in recovering from leg surgery a 
few months ago. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt 1007 
Chicago, 111. 60626 
'29 COMPARE NOTES 18%* 
Father JOE BARRY CSC was a recent 
visitor to the campus. Father continues to 
expend himself working with the youth of 
all ages but primarily the fortunate students 
of Bishop Hoban H.S. in Akron, Ohio. 
We compared notes, usually for no net gain, 
on several '29ers including Father OTEY 
WINCHESTER of St. Ann's Parish, 
Cleveland Heights. We readily concur that 
it must be increasingly difficult for parish 
priests to find time and manpower to meet 
the many demands on them. 
The mailing addresses of the following have been changed . . . ELMO MOYER from Saratoga Springs to P.O. Box 127, Pennsburg, Pa. 18073 . . . OLIVER SCHELL, 728 W. 15th St., Tyrone, Pa. 16686 . . . HARVEY McDEVlTT, 102 Essex Ave., Montclair, NJ. 07042 . . . JOHN V. HINKEL from National Press Bldg. to 5341 — 29th St. N.W., Washing­ton, D.C. 20015 . . . THOMAS MAHAFFEY, Scarsdale, N.Y. to 5700 Old Ocean Blvd., Apt. V, Delray Beach, Fla. 33444 . . . ALBION GRIFFIN, 231 
E. Market St., Bethlehem, Pa. 18018. 
A year ago Killamey was a summer highlight. This evening it is a letter from 
(217) 'npperary (Lane, Winston-Salem, N.C.) addressed to his former roommate PAUL BARTHOLOMEW by our classmate and mutual friend MARC KIRCHNER. We will share with you its cheerful message of news bad and good from an exemplary '29er with heart (if we have any other kind I never meet or hear from them). I'm proud of Men of Notre Dame like him and thankful for the opportunity to submit copy for print which is in refreshing contrast to most of what one reads in the daily press. 
"Dear Paul: 
"It was nice to receive your newsy letter on my birthday. It was my 65th and will be worth a welcome added S650 deduction next April 15. . . . 
"Marc (son) continues to do well in school. He is a member of the Society of Outstanding American H.S. students but that is not our elation. He was selected to attend the Governor's School this summer on the campus of Salem (Va.) College for 400 intellectually gifted N. Carolina H.S. students, all expenses paid. . . . 
"DON KELSY '48, now past president of the North Carolina ND Alumni Club asked me to pick up TOM SULLIVAN '66 of the Foundation Office while he was in the Greensboro area, this was just before I went to the hospital. I would gladly have helped him if I had felt better. I talked with Tom by phone from Winston-Salem and from my office in Burlington and gave him what suggestions and information I could. I missed a golden opportunity to get involved with the Alumni Association at head­quarters but really could not cany the burden." 
Mary Kathleen, daughter of FRANCIS and Mrs. JONES was married July 17 to Michael Roberts in St Anthony's Church, South Bend. 
CLARENCE JANS new address is 7344-A N. Winchester, Chicago .. . JOE KEEFE's is Spring Lake Towers (608) 

*Per.-entase of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
Winter Haven, Fla. , . . CLIFTON TROMBLEY lives at 521 Park Ave., Detroit, Mich FRANCIS METRAIER's new address is 9317 Gerig Road, 
Grabill, Ind. 
Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'30 SAFARI 17.3%* 
I am writing this column as a fill-in reporter for your "regular" columnist, who is on his annual grouse shooting safari. Seriously, our devoted and hard working scribe needs a rest. He has faithfully brought news to the '30ers for the past 40-odd years. If he misses an issue of the ALUMNUS, the Riflemen have themselves to blame for not furnishing Dev with class news. With my blessing, every classmate is hereby appointed a roving news reporter. Please make a sincere effort to channel news, gossip, rumors and other chitchat direct to Devere. 
The Campus Ground Crew Advisory Committee headed by your secretary has completed preliminary arrangements for a get-together party, following the Southern Cal football game on October 23, 1971. In a special mailing and in sufficient time to make individual arrangements, each member of the class attending the game will be notified of the particulars. This should be a great one as the 1930-31 championship football team will be reuniting the same weekend. 
Your president's fall vacation plans include a visit lo campus for both the North Carolina and USC games. Classmates with gripes, seeking appointments and information on social security retirement can meet with me each day at high noon in the East Campus Cafeteria. 
Speaking about appointments, the follow­ing have been selected as regional honorary class Vice Presidents: East, Thomas J. Bradley, Bronxville, N.Y.; Mid-Atlantic, George O'Malley, Washington, D.C.; Mid­west, Karl T. Brennan, Rockford, 111.; South, William H. Miller, Jackson, Miss.; and Far West, Patrick J. Goggin, Jr., Seattle, Wash. Hopefully, these energetic classmates and civic leaders will take their duties seriously and report regularly to the class secretary with appropriate class news. The swearing-in ceremony will be at the clambake following the Southern Cal game. 
John Healy and Father Jim Rizer sent post cards while on European tours. Members of the class will be pleased to learn of my second visit to Ireland this past June. The trip was a bit of an archaeological venture, giving me an opportunity to study background of the historic places. JACK SAUNDERS '31 and Yours Truly are serving as Boston Area cochairmen for the International Sports and Games Research Collection to be housed in the Memorial Library. Classmates and friends of ND are invited to contribute any articles or equip­ment of significant interest in the develop­ment of international athletics to this very fine project. FRANK WALLACE '23 is national chairman. 
"May you be in Heaven a long time before the Devil knows you are gone." Remember, keep sending in those letters to Devere. 
Tim Toomey 216 Hillside Ave. Arlington, Mass. 02174 
'31 SKIP PARTY IS.8%* 
It's that time again for 1931 class news and it is a bit scarce currently probably due to a letdown from the tremendous interest and activity at our wonderful 40th REUNION. As I mentioned eariier many who attended our postgame cocktail parties suggested that we skip the usual party at the Monogram Lounge and join in the general reunion following the Southern Cal game, Oct. 23. I have written John F. Plouff, managing director of the A. & CC, canceling our reservation for the Tulane game Nov. 13. I hope this will not upset someone's plans for that game. We have a tentative reservation at the A. cS: C.C. for either Oct. 14 or Oct. 21, 1972 when Pittsburgh and Missouri play ND. A final date will be announced prior to ordering tickets for the 1972 season. 
Word was just received of the death of MYRON C. HERSHFIELD, Goshen, Ind. on May 25. CHARLEY MILTNER sent a short note following the reunion as did FRANK CONOLE. Frank plans on attending the Southern Cal game and mentioned being in the lobby of the Morris Inn, but I am sure he will join us after the game. Many thanks for your note and comments, Frank. Locally I have talked ' to RAY COLLINS and BERT METZGER, along with BILL ALLEN '21, who lives a block away from me. F. X. MURPHY sent a note telling of his family reunion which prevented his attendance at the reunion. His wife, the former Elizabeth "Hgner, St. Mary of the Woods, has been in ill health for some time. His main contact in his area is genial JOE DUNNE. DON O'TOOLE had to miss the reunion due to the illness of his wife, Marian. His telegram to the class, sent to JACK SAUNDERS, was never received. LOUIS GODOY also sent a wire which was received a week later. Recently 1 saw a familiar name in the Voice of the People, Chicago Tribune. It was our wonderful former Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG stating the case for private schools. I wrote Fr. Charles M. Carey who celebrated our class Mass and received the following from him: "I am most grateful to you for your note, and for the enclosed check. 1 shall use it as stipends for Masses to be said for the deceased members of our class. In your notes, you might mention that you have made arrangements for a Mass each month for the deceased members. I shall take care 
of this with your check for the coming year. I was surprised and gratified at the number attending the Mass at that early hour—and their participation in the responses. All good wishes to you." I understand that BUD GEIS and ED SHEERAN will attend the Southern Cal game. I should like to hear from JIM MULVANEY on how JOHNNY BURNS is coming along following his convalescence from recent illness. Please remember our ill and departed classmates in your prayers. I hope you will all have a wonderful summer and are sufficiently rested so you can take time out to send news for the 1931 column. Best wishes to all. 
James T. Doyle 1567 Ridce Ave. Evanston, III. 60201 
'32 LETTER FROM MOON 14.4%* 
The best news this time is a letter from WALTER F. (Moon) MULLEN. "Dear Mac, How the hell are you? Here's my personal scoop. A couple of years ago, JOE McCABE and 1 met for the first time since 1932. Joe had just come back from a vacation in Ireland. He described Ireland so enthusiastically that he got me interested. At that time, 1 had never set foot on the island. I don't even think that Joe knows this but, last year, I retired and moved my wife and five kids over here. We love itl Will see you all at our 40th reunion and, if you are interested, will tell you all about it. In the meantime, if any of you '32ers are over this way, my number is in the Dublin phone book (DubUn 87-45-40). 
Very best regards, W. F. (Moon) Mullen, The Old Rectory, Delgany, County Wicklow, Ireland. P.S. Drop me a line." 
Additional good news is that ROBERT 
J. ROHRBACH has been named treasurer of The New York News and elected to the board of directors. He has been the News' controller since 1958. He joined the News in 1952 as auditor and accountant after 10 years at The Chicago Tribune. 
Our good friend JOE PETRITZ has joined the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the newly created position of director of editorial services. 
And, LLOYD G. WATERSON, president of the Credit Bureau of South Bend, was given the International Leadership Award, Credit Reporting Division, by the Associated Credit Bureaus, Inc., at the association's annual conference in New Orleans, La. 
GEORGE ZIMMERMAN has left Springfield, III. and now is at Cranfield Road, Mountain Home, Ark. 72653. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Road Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 POLL PICKS GAME 12.7%* 
This year's Conley poll shows the Southern Cal game, Oct. 23, as the one most preferred by our classmates. When the alumni football applications were mailed, the Class of '33 quickly indicated that weekend as the one they wish to attend. We are apparently remembering not only last year's defeat but also that cliff-hanger in '31, when we saw our first loss by an Irish team. Irene and I hope to be there and have made reservations at the "new" LaSalle Motor Inn. We will have the benefit of the Monday holiday. Veterans Day, on Oct. 25. PHIL FAHERTY called early to confirm that he and his family will head West on Interstate 80 with their friends, Bill and Rita Losch. RAY NABER then telephoned to say that he and the mayor would lead a Louisville delegation. JACK KENNEY and CONAL BYRNE '36 plan an early departure from the Philadelphia Main Line. ALFRED (Josh) D'AMORA '35 of Wayne, Pa. not only hopes to see the Southern Cal fray but the N. Carolina game the week before. TIM TOOMEY '30 will see these same back-to-back home games, leaving Boston unattended for a week. Timothy, incidentally, just returned from a glorious trip to Ireland. 
As the pre-game crowd makes it difficult to arrange a formal reunion, I suggest we meet casually in the Morris Inn lobby (or on the putting green if the weather is clear) and then on the way into the Trojan fray to stop by the LARRY SEXTON tail­gate party at Gate 10. After the "victory." the recommended gathering place is the '33 area in the Athletic and Convocation Center where drinks are available at reasonable prices. MOE LEE promises to preside at the A. & C.C. to accept suggestions for our 40th reunion in June '73. The Faculty Club is jammed with fans immediately after the game but the crowd thins out later in the evening. With these pleasant oases available, we should be able to meet over the long weekend. 
Please send me reports on people you meet at other games. RED BARRETT wiU be at the Northwestern opener and promises to drop over to the A. & C.C. 
Phyllis and JACK SOISSON, 42 Hampton Court, Rockville Center, N.Y. 11570, send regartls and report that all in their family are well. I'm still grateful for the wonderful '69 Army game reunion sponsored by Jack, SAM HYDE, CHARLIE QUINN, JACK HOYT and other New York City area classmates. 
On July 1, 1971 the new Illinois con­stitution changed the status of Judge Maurice W. Lee to associate judge of the circuit court. Maurie's son. Bob, will not complete his studies in the ND College of Law until August '71 due to a stint in the U.S. Army. 
JIM DEGAN '29 sent the obituary of DON M. HAECKER who was survived by his widow, Helen; two daughters, Mrs. Dona Kimple and Mrs. Diane Dale; 11 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Don had lived in Sarasota, Fla. for the 7V4 years prior to his death. Before that his home was in Toledo, Ohio, where his daughters still reside. Father JIM DONNELLY wrote to Mrs. Haecker to extend the sympathy of our class and to inform the fatm'ly that Don would be remembered in his prayers and Masses. 
PAT CROWLEY mailed an announce­ment that the name of his law firm is now: Crowley, Barrett & Karaba. Robert A. Sprecher withdrew from the firm to accept an appointment as Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. The office address is 111 W. Monroe St., Chicago, 111. 60603, telephone 312-726-2468. 
EDMUND A. STEPHAN, Chicago attorney, is chairman of the ND board of trustees which now includes 35 Laymen and 7 Holy Cross priests. 
ND prof, JAMES DANEHY, is the chairman of the Human Relations Com­mission of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese. Jim was the campus representative for our 35th reunion in '68 and did an excellent job. 
This is being written in a hot, sticky July. I look forward to meeting you in cold, crisp October. 
Charles A. Conley 100 R TumbuU Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 IITH QUINN DEGREE 13.5%* 
JAMES D. COONEY, executive director for the ND Alumni Association informs me of the death of Dorothea Gleason, wife of JAMES H. GLEASON. Dorothea died on June 18, 1971. A Mass was to be said for her by Rev. William Toohey, CSC, at ND on Sunday, July 4. Jim's address is 478 Clay Road. Rochester, N.Y. 14603. 
CHARLES QUINN of 1011 N.E. 9th Ave., Del Ray Beach, Fla. sends on the following report: The Charles F. Quinn family has just obtained its 11th college degree. Charles himself recently obtained a master's degree in Library Science from Long Island U. Hrs wife, Catherine, holds a B.S. degree in nutrition from St. Mary's College, Notre Dame. Their oldest son. Chuck, received his B.S. in chemistry from ND; his M.A. in philosophy; and just obtained Ph.D. in symbolic logic (this is related to math). Daughter Catherine graduated from SMC, then received her 
M.S. from St. Louis U. and is now teaching nutrition at St. Mary's Medical School. Sister Eileen Marie Quinn is now a Dominican nun, having gotten her diploma from Sienna Heights in Adrian, Mich. She will be teaching in Miami next year. Kevin also graduated from ND with an A.B. in business administration. Mary Clare, the youngest of the Quinns, just received her 
B.A. in music education at Barry Colle.te in Miami. It is said that education is the only hope for a distressed world. From here it looks as if the Ouinns have made a head start in the right direction! 
JAMES R. MORRISON, 1834 Summer St., Hammond, Ind., sent along a copy of the Charley Ouinn story that appeared in the Del Rav Beach (Fla.) News Journal. Charley Quinn sent on a copy of an article written by Dave Condon of "The Chicago Tribune. The paper was dated Feb. 3, 1971. Your secretary was mentioned in the article. I wonder where Charles got the copy? 
JOSEPH CLARK had a Dan Lee of Chicago call me. The two gentlemen met on the Aran Islands off the coast of Galway in Ireland. I saw BILL FROMM at a party on July 11. Only got a chance to say "Hello." Ray and Audrey Foley of River Forest were the hosts. The party was held for Thomas A. Foran, who is seeking a chance to run for governor of Illinois in 1972. There were many ND men at this party but Bill Fromm was the only man from the class of 1934., 

JOSEPH P. BURNS has been appointed national accounts manager for Rich Products Corp., specialty frozen foods packer, Buffalo, N.Y. The last address I had for Joe was 355 River Road, Mount Carmel, Conn. 06518. 
JOSEPH L. FITZMAURICE '36 is looking for tickets to the LSU game. Joe can be reached at the Civil Aeronautics Board, 1825 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20428. Joe's phone number is 202-382-7755. Don't forget that TOM DAVID is also looking for tickets to the L.S.U. game. Tom has a new address, 1022 — 10th St., Alexandria, La. 
I received a call from Joseph Gaffney, a neighbor of mine in Elmhurst, informing me of the death of ROBERT WILKE '37, 3 Brittany Ln., Larchmont, N.Y. 10538. Bob was a freshman during our senior year. He was a great halfback and FRED WEIDNER said he never blocked for a better runner while playing for ND. 
By the time you receive this report, I should be home from the Elmhurst Memorial Hospital. This will be iny fourth trip to a hospital this year. Would love to get down to ND for the opening game with Northwestern. Let's hope all goes well— God willing. 
My daughter, Marcia, is now with the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. in the Lombard, 111., office. Renee is working for me at the store as a switchboard operator for the summer. She will return to Loretto Heights College in Denver in August. My son, Ed Jr., is working here also. Ed is getting our advertising out for us. 
The following are new addresses for our classmates of '34: BERNARD J. CRONIN, 19 Ridcefield Rd., Lutherville, Md. 21093; ERWIN J. KlEP, 12000 Edgewater Dr.. Apt. 206, Lakewood, Ohio 44107; ROBERT 
J. STONE 7802 Samura PI., Garden Grove, Cal. 92641; M. C. TACKLEY, 28 Prospect, Malone. N.Y. 12953; EDWARD 
F. WEINHEIMER, 3173 Dollv Ridge Dr., Birmingham, Ala. 35243 and GRANVILLE 
P. ZIEGLER, 301 N. Blvd. De La Paix, Apt. 2904, South Bend, Ind. 46615. 
Edward M. Moran 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, III. 60639 
'35 WAITING FOR NEWS 13.7%* 
As is my usual custom, I am writing this column a day before the July 26 deadline in the hope that last-minute mail would bring forth more fodder of interest. Didn't materialize, so must use what I have on hand. As a matter of information, this column will not appear until the September edition to be mailed about Sept, 20, so any news I receive after today will not be printed until the October-November edition. 
Only 10 days after the June 21 deadline for the July-August issue (in which this column did not appear for lack of news), I received the totally unexpected and sad news of the sudden death of FRANK HOLAHAN. Frank passed away at his home of a heart attack. He leaves his wife Louise, two sons, John and Bill, a sweet daughter, Rita, and a grandson. Louise's address is: 4 Long Pond Court, Windmill Farm, Armonk, N.Y. As you know, Frank was valedictorian of our class 
graduating magna cum laude and at the time of his death was settlor vice president of the National Bank of Westchester. Frank and Louise, to my knowledge, attended at least one football game every year at ND since his graduation, and they always spent some time during their trips with the Ryans. Your Class had a Mass said by Father Jim Corrigan. In behalf of the class, I extend our profound sym­pathy to Louise and family. Former Lt. Gov. RAY BRODERICK is now a judge of the U.S.. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. FRED SHANLEY, a member of the sociology department faculty at California State College, Los Angeles, since 1965, is now a full professor. Congrats, Fred. VIC METTLER sent a card to prove he is "still alive and kicking." Vic intends to be at the Michigan State and Southern Cal games. (Don't forget our intended mini-reunion at the latter game, Vic.) BILL MURRAY contributed some news of himself and family. Bill is regional sales manager of the Western States of the 
B. F. Goodrich Co. He and his wife, Phyllis, have two sons, a daughter and seven grandchildren. Bill says "if possible I'll be at the Southern Cal game." Make it definite. Bill, and confirm it to me soon. 
Believe it or not, GEORGE McGRATH finally wrote a note from Ware, Mass.— now a guidance counselor at Ware High School—has a daughter Louise, a junior at St. Mary's. And he and wife Isabelle plan to attend the "Revenge Bowl." (George, please bring a capsule of dirt from my home state—^just for me!) 
JIM JENNINGS denies he was at the Cotton Bowl game which I mentioned in a previous issue. He says he was in Fort Dodge, la. for his son's wedding. Jim, are you sure you were at a wedding on the date of the Cotton Bowl? Any documentary evidence to prove your whereabouts? Jim is trying to drum up business for the LSU game in Baton Rouge. Quite a South Bend and New York contingent planm'ng to attend. Anybody making the trip will let us know. Already heard from JOE LYNCH and long lost NORB HART that they will be vrith us on Oct. 22 at South Bend. In desperation we are trying to extract from the ticket office the names of the '35ers who applied for—and successfully got— tickets for the Southern Cal game. At this writing no success. It's a secret! So, please drop us a card if you are coming. We want to plan a mini-reunion. But, I ask you, how can we do it if we don't know how many are coming? Just a postcard to me or your prexy ED VAN HUISSELING would help. Only takes a few minutes to write a card—so how about it? We've been tryng for several years to have a mini-reunion at South Bend for a game—with no success. This is the last call! 
William F. Ryan 
1620 E. Washington Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'36 MISS 35fh 17.1%* 
From IRWIN CROTTY, 11827 25th Ave. S., Seattle, Wash. "Was sorry to have missed the 35th reunion. Hope to be around for the next one. The past two years followed the football team at a few games including two Cotton Bowls. All of the family (seven children, four boys and three girls) are now married except Mike so that gives me and Grace a bit of a chance to get out in the fall. S. Bend is a long way from Seattle but we still have relatives in Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota and Indiana so get in a lot of visiting between games." 
Had a nice letter from ED CROTTY '37 this past spring and was pleasantly surprised at hearing from him after all these years. Met BOB WALDRON and ANDY PUPLIS 

*Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
at the hotel in Dallas. Had seen Andy a 
year ago at the New Year's Party but first 
time I had seen Bob since ND days. Have 
often wondered what happened to JOE 
UNDERKOFLER, used to play semi-pro 
baseball against Joe in Northern Iowa. He 
writes: 
"Been working for the U. S. Immigration 
Service for 30 years and the past 15 have 
been supervisor at the Seattle-Tacoma 
International Airport in Seattle. Number-
two son, Jim, graduated from ND after 
earning three letters in football and Mike 
will now be a senior this fall and has earned 
two letters in football to date and should 
make it again if he isn't hurt The years 
have been good but begin to feel older and 
slowed down (don't we all). Have 13 
grandchildren who keep us on the go so 
can't slow up too much. Or should I say 
down?" 
When this coming football season ends I 
plan on getting back to fishing and hunting 
biding my time until a grandson appears in 
sports picture and I start running after 
athletic contests. That is one thing I missed 
when I left the coaching and teaching pro­
fession but have never been too far away 
from the action. Hope to see many of you 
at the next reunion. 
Rev. ANTHONY J. LAUCK CSC, 
director of (he art gallery at ND, is 
celebrating his silver jubilee of ordination 
this year. He has taught art at ND since 
1950. 
Brother SIMON SCRIBNER, a longtime faculty member has received an Alumni Appreciation Medal from the St. Edward's 
U. Alumni Association. Brother Simon has served as vice president, registrar, director of student activities and alumni director at St. Edward's. 
Creation of a 4-year scholarship honoring the memory of the late CARMI A. BELMONT is under way in Fall River, Mass., where he was instructor in evening classes of the Bristol Community College and where he formerly taught languages in the Durfee High School. Belmont died Dec. 31 and had been attending Bridge­water State College to obtain a master's degree in education. The scholarship move was started by A. Steven Raymond, a former pupil. 
Sad to report the death of LEO McFARLANE, STEPHEN B. NOVAK and wife of JUSTIN O'TOOLE, Jeanette. Kindly remember them in your prayers and Masses. 
In closing I wish to take this opportunity to thank JERRY VOGEL, committee chairman. Father JOHN BURKE MORRIS 
B. COOPER. GEORGE McNEIL and JOHN SCHOONOVER for their very fine program of activities in behalf of the past 35th-year reunion of the Class of '36. A wonderful time was had by all. Hope more of us meet in '76. 
Larry Palkovic 
249 N. Day St. 
Orange, NJ. 07050 
'37 ANSWERS NEW CALL 14.5%* 
JOE SCHILLING answered the first call for news and reported in as marketing manager, carpet with Johns-Manville in NYC bringing many years of experience in the carpeting field to JM. Joe saw the Texas banker, BILL KIRK, on Park Ave. lost of course, and they discussed life in old St. Ed's. Joe has a grown family now with a son in the advertising business giving PAUL FOLEY'S firm a run for their money. LARRY DANBOM and fanuly visited with Joe at their R.I. retreat and hope to get together again this summer. TOM HUGHES, the spirits seller of NJ. should check in with Joe to get lined up for the reunion. 
WALT NIENABER and TOM WHITE 
Congrats 
O'Donnell Fitzmaurice May 
Moran Rademaker Hoeck 
John J. O'Donnell '30 has been named to the board of trustees of Golden Gate College, San Francisco, Calif. O'Donnell is manager of manpower planning and development for the Bechtel Corp., of San Francisco. He and his wife, Catherine, live at 8 Peacock Lane, San Rafael, Calif. 
Edmund F. Fitzmaurice '34 has joined Loer, Gant & Krueger, Inc., Indianapolis, as vice president. Until recently he was executive vice president and director of Falstaff Brewing Corp. For several years he was a member of the advisory council of the Graduate School of Business at the U. of Chicago. 
Francis H. May Jr. '38 has been appointed executive vice president for finance and administration of the Johns-Manville Corp. He also continues as a director. He received a master's degree at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. He and his wife live at Pilot Rock Lane, Riverside, Conn. 
James D. Moran '42 was elected president and chief executive officer of the Flintkote Co., White Plains, N.Y. He joined the firm in 1950 and held various positions leading to election as executive vice presi­dent in 1967. Moran served as a Marine officer in World War II. He lives in Larchmont with his wife and six children. 
Theodore C. Rademaker '46 has been appointed assistant regional commissioner, appellate, for the North Atlantic region of the Internal Revenue Service in New York, N.Y. The region serves six New England states and New York. He began his career with the service in 1948 as a special agent at South Bend, Ind. 
John L. Hoeck '48 is now president of United Mercantile Agencies, Inc., Louisville, Ky. He joined the firm in 1948 and has served as vice president and treasurer since 1958. Hoeck lives with his wife and three children at 809 Alden Rd., Louisville. 
met in St. Louis while Walt was there for 
daughter Sue's graduation in June. This 
completes Walt's tuition duty as son. Jay, 
finished law school also. Tom's party lost 
on the races and Walt came home with 
some of the loot. BOB BURKE and JERRY 
GOHMAN visited with Walt in XTincy for 
a few cold ones. With a daughter in 
Germany, Walt may still make the journey 
over for a visit As to the games, the Cincy 
contingent will be there for the M.S.U. 
and S.C. games, staying at the Holiday 
Inn, and have already promised to make 
the Reunion. Director of City Parks & 
Recreation, City of Danbury, Conn., ED 
CROTTY says that he will be going to the 
us e game and will be available for reunion 
discussion. Ed is also retired H.S. coach 
of Danbury. Ed lost one of his sons in an 
auto accident, this after spending 4 years 
in the Marines, etc. BUCKY JORDAN 
called all the way from Chicago Tribune 
office one day saying he had lunch with 
Father JOE RACE, ELMER LAYDEN, 
ANDY PUPLIS and when in the NYC 
area he calls on JACK GILLESPIE. These 
journalists have to swap news items. Bucfcy 
also hopes to make a couple of games this 
fall, along with a visit for business to 
Miami. Jack Gillespie in the Mobil tower 
in NYC still is the tennis man and has 
visited with a long unheard of member, 
GEORGE CECALLA, who resides in 
Conn., is a film producer, also a script 
writer and does documentaries. How about 
doing one for '37 and the Reunion next 
year, George???. 
1 talked with Judge Marbach of the 
Superior Court of N.Y. over the phone and 
all law angles are under control in West­
chester County. 
Press reports ED NEAHER's confir­mation by the U.S. Senate of his nomination as a federal judge for Eastern District oT New York, comprising Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island and Long Island. Judge Neaher has been the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District since 1969. So, Marbach and Neaher should keep us out of jail at the next reunion. All this news is a result of the letter on death of BOB WILKE in July. Bob had a serious operation a couple of years ago as reported, then came around and played some golf, etc., but lost out on fourth down. We also have lost DICK DICE and BILL O'SULLIVAN recenUy. Please remember Bob, Dick and Bill in your prayers. 
Don't forget to head for the Athletic and Convocation Center after the games and look for the Class of '37 group. We have a lot of work to do for Reunion '72. 
J. P. Quinn, Jr. P.O. Box 275 Andover, NJ. 07821 
'40 FATHER TOBIN DIES 18.6%* 
It is with sincere sorrow that I report the answer to my question regarding Father BILL TOBIN. Father BiU died in May. At the time of his death he was assistant vicar general of the Servants of the Paraclete after serving the order in many locations throughout the world estabh'shing retreat homes for priests. After graduating from ND and then from the Harvard School of Business Administration, Bill served in the Navy for ten years, retiring as a Lieutenant Commander. He was called to more meaningful and significant work when he joined the order. He was recently named ND man of the year by the Alumni Club of New Mexico and he truly was a ND man all of his life. Although I never saw Father Bill after his ordination in 1958, I have heard numerous reports of his inspiring work with both the religious and lay communities. 
He has now joined many other men of '40 who are with us all in spirit and who attend all of our reunions with those 

physically present. Let us remember Father 
Bill and all of our classmates and friends, 
both living and deceased, in our daily 
prayers. Remember CHUBBY GILLAND's 
family in your prayers—they have lost 
three members of their family in the past 
10 months. 
TOM FLAD and his wife spent some 
time in Phoenix this spring with the Gil-
lands. Chubby comments that he has not 
received any word from NORV (Skinhead) 
HUNTHAUSEN, nor from MIZE 
(Miserly) MORRIS. He asks, "Did Mexico, 
Mo., withdraw from the states?" 
BOB LAWRENCE, Fifth Air Force 
sports director since 1962, was presented 
the Merit of Appreciation during the 11th 
Annual Industrial/Collegiate Track and 
Field Meet at the Odawara Athletic Stadium 
near Tokyo in June. He is retiring this 
summer and plans to work for the Bureau 
of Indian Affairs in Anadarko, Okla., as 
a recreation supervisor and Indian school 
counsellor. You men of '40 in Oklahoma 
look up Bob this fall. 
The class was well represented at UND night in NY this spring. The following men attended with their wives: JIM BROWN, JIM KELLY, BOB CRUICKSHANK, JERRY SEXTON, JOE CUMMINGS, HANK DOWD, LEO SANTINI, JIM SPELLMAN, and GERRY SAEGERT, the new club president. 
JIM DELAHANTY, through the efforts of his good wife, reports that DICK BURKE is doing quite well and looking great He has also seen DICK ALBERT and DON HOSINSKI during the summer. CHUCK OSHINSKl has left Uniroyal after many years service and is now at Columbus Coated Fab. 
We have not done well this issue, but expect to see many of you during football season, and also expect to hear from even more of you. All you have to do is write me. 
Robert G. Sanford 
947 Oakcreefc Dr. 
Dayton, Ohio 45429 
'41 MAIL IS NEEDED 17.9%* 
Not much news this time, so all you helpful lads come to my rescue and fill me in with news items you promised at reunion time. Notes for my next column have to be in the Alumnus oBice by Sept. 13, so write. 
Did have a note from MILT WILLIAMS, one of old debating team members. Milt is a teacher in the public school system. His oldest son, Rhys, is married and is teaching in Anaheim, while the youngest, John, is off to Cal-Fullerton this fall. 
Milt informed me of AL VANDER-VORTs death from leukemia in 1970. Al leaves his wife, Jill, and three sons in Palo Alto. 
My own son, TIM '69, is now in the Teaching Corps at Livingston, Ala. teaching the disadvantaged, as he studies for his master's. 
Bill Daly 
1204 Indian Springs Dr. Glendora, Calif. 91740 
'43 DUDLEY ON BOARD 13.4% * 
A May bulletin from Christian Brothers College, Memphis, contains the following: 
A. B. (Bud) DUDLEY, founder of the Liberty Bowl, is the latest to join the board of trustees at Christian Brothers College. A man known for his "firsts," Dudley was first to receive NCAA authorization to stage a major college football game in the East He introduced the "Liberty Bowl" in Philadelphia in December, 1959. 
Dudley received the Memphis "In-Print" award for creating the most favorable 
national publicity (for the City of Memphis) in 1967. In 1964, Dudley was in charge of the 
U. S. Ice Hockey Team which made a 10-game tour behind the Iron Curtain. He wrote an article entitled "The Lost Image" in 1965 which was made part of the Congressional Record that year. It earned him the George Washington Honor Medal for a "substantial contribution to the American way of life" from Freedoms Foundation, Valley Forge. 
A letter from LEO LEWIS states that he plans to attend the Southern Cal game. Let's get on the ball and drop a line, so we can keep this column going. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 E. Cherry 
Chatsworth, lU. 60921 
'44 LIST GROWS 17.5%* 
Once again it is my unfortunate task to 
report the death of a fellow classmate 
EDWARD GHIGLIOTTI, Staten Island, 
N.Y. in June. It is an ever growing list and Ed's death is the ninth since the 25th reunion two years ago. To his wife and to his family the prayers and sympathy of fellow classmates are extended. 
ROBERT W. GALVIN has been elected an honorary governor of the Electronic Industries Association. He is chairman of the board of Motorola, Inc. and a former president of the association. He and his father, the late Paul V. Galvin, had leader­ship roles in the association for 37 years. JAMES F. GORMELEY, Fairfield Conn., has been named vice president for manu­facturing of General Signal Corp., manu­facturer of control components, with headquarters in New York. 
Among the travelers this summer were (Black) JOHN MURPHY and his wife who were on a Personnel Association People to People tour. A card was received from Geneva where he bad been for five days. From there they were to go to Berlin, Moscow, Leningrad, Bucharest and Bel­grade. Recently there was a surprise telephone call from JERRY STANTON, a partner in the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Co., headquartered in Chicago. Jerry was curious about the Door County Peninsula and Washington Island in particular. He figured that yours truly would have,firsthand information since the area is only' 30 miles from Green Bay. Needless to say, it was a pleasure to report to him that it is a great vacation area— excellent accommodations, fine eateries, good golf courses, tremendous fishing, every­thing as far as water sports are concerned, fairly good skiing in winter, beautiful scenery, etc., etc. An article about Door County appeared in National Geographic a year or so ago. In it the area was referred to as the Cape Cod of the Midwest This really is not a C of C plug, just a personal commentary. 
News was received about the Class of '44's first secretary, JOHN LYNCH. John lives in Framingham, Mass. In his "spare time" he does some free-lance photography and has been represented in Yankee, National Wildlife, American Forests, Horticulture and Vermont Life. In addition he is involved in his parish council and CCD program. His family consists of son, TOM '71 who plans to enter U. of Mass. graduate school in fall; daughter, Christina, a Webster College senior; daughter, Ellen, a Webber College junior; daughter, Karen, a St Joseph College freshman and three homebodies—Kathleen, Molly and Christopher. John traveled back to ND for graduation in June (his first visit to the campus since '59) and saw fellow class­mates BOB FAUGHT, WARREN LEARY and JOE FIEWEGER who also had sons graduated. Other '44ers with whom he has had contact recently were CHOCK 

'Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 197J. 
PATTERSON, JOHN HICKEY, DAN 
DOWNEY and HARRY YEATES. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'45 RETURN TO SENDER 20.8%' 
Several letters mailed to the class have been 
returned to me because the class member 
has moved and left no forwarding address. 
Therefore, if you know the new address 
of any of the following, please forward to 
me: ARTHUR (Chuck) C. SARTORE, 
3001 Farmington Dr., Greensboro, N.C.; 
MICHAEL BISESI, Olin Hotel, 1420 
Logan, Denver, Colo.; ROBERT FITZ­
PATRICK, 16230 Lilac, Detroit, Mich. 
48221; WILLIAM E. HARRS, 86 Algon­
quin, Massapequa, N.Y. 
Two congratulations to JOHN J. 
DOWLING, M.D., for two nice honors. 
John has been associate professor of 
clinical orthopaedic surgery at the Jeffer­
son Medical College in Philadelphia for 
some years, and has recently become chief 
of orthopaedics at the Lankenau Hospital. 
In addition, the class of 1971 senior medi­
cal students from Jefferson chose him to 
receive the Lindbach Award for Distin­
guished Teaching. John's older son John 
Jr. is presently a junior at ND. Con­
gratulations on all counts! 
I received a nice note from HENRY 
(Hank) PAYNE in which he says, "When 
I call on Caterpillar at Peoria, I see 
something of KEN SCHULZE. You will 
remember him as one of our aeronautical 
colleagues. Ken inquires about CLIFF 
MARKS. I reply that, at last word. 
Cliff was still prospering at McDonald 
Douglas in St. Louis. Cliff is one guy who 
studied aeronautical engineering and is still 
working at it. 1 don't know what aeronau­
tics has to do with tractors (Ken) or 
conveyors (me)." Class secretary's note: 
Or editing and publishing! (AVL). "Possi­
bly, fellow aeronautical colleague JOE 
HAGGER, in Dallas, may be using some 
of his aeronautical training to design space 
pants and suits in his slacks business. Best 
regards." 
Two additional deaths in our class have come to my attention recently, although the deaths occurred several years ago. ROBERT PHILPOTT died on Nov. 9, 1969; and FRANCIS KELLY in 1966. Mail to them recently brought this sad news to our attention. 
JOSEPH E. MAHONEY is a judge in the Court of Common Pleas in Jefferson, Ohio. Joe and his wife, Clare, have three children: Joseph E. (18) who is a fresh­man at Ohio State U.; Timothy J. (17) who is a junior at St John's H.S.; and Francis X. (16) who is a sophomore at St. John's H.S. After graduation from the school of Commerce in August 1948, and Law School in January 1949, Joe was admitted to the practice of law in the State of Ohio and practiced for about one year. Thereafter, he became a special agent for the F.B.I, from 1950 to 1957. After this, Joe was the director of investi­gations for the city of Philadelphia until 1961, when he returned to practice law in Ashtabula, Ohio, with his brother, JOHN P. MAHONEY '38. Joe was prosecuting attorney for Ashtabula County from 1965 to 1968, and became judge of the common pleas court in November 1968. 
Class of 45 Big Brother Program: 
I continue persistently to try to gather enough funds to help effectively defray college costs for the young fatherless boy, Dennis Kehne, from Syosset, Long Island, 
N.Y. The good news is that he is starting at ND this coming September, about the time this issue is out. Dennis needs help from each of the class members who can afford it, so please send your contribution 
to my address below. And to all those 
of the class who have helped, a sincere 
thank you from me and from Dennis and 
his mother. 
A. V. Lesmez 122 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
'46 SILVER REUNION 16.2%* 
Frank Foss, recording secretary, sends 
this report of the Class of '46 Silver 
Anniversary Reunion: 
"Terrific! Great! Fantastic! The verdict 
was unanimous — the 25th was the big­
gest and best reunion the '46ers have had 
yeL Thirty of us made it. 
"The biggest and best news concerned 
BOB ROSSITER, our bUnd classmate. Bob 
regained his sight recently after several 
operations and saw his classmates for the 
first time! The sight of us brought forth a 
few of his usual wry comments, of course. 
Bob, who brought his lovely wife and 
children, is doing well as an attorney in 
Brooklyn. ELMER ANGSMAN showed up 
Saturday at the golf course. He didn't 
play, but rented a cart and drove TOM 
BURNS and Foss around. Elmer looks as 
fit as he did in his All-American days. 
STEVE NEMETH dropped in, too, and 
exchanged stories with JOHN McGUIRE. 
John's Irish tenor is as lilting as ever, as 
he demonstrated, by popular request, at the 
class banquet 
"The banquet thanks to ED MIESZ-KOWSKI's M.C. talents, was one of the highlights. ART KERNEN, the DON RICKLES of '46, was in in fine form. HARRY SURKAMP was lovable as ever, but there's a lot more of him to love. NICK COMMISA brought samples of all the Bookstore's monogrammed items (he also brought along his cousin, who got hooked on the Bookstore, too). GEORGE DeLOA(JH was here from Mississippi with his charming wife. (George was looking for PAUL DOYLE and almost found him, didn't he, Nick?) FRANK PAULSON, the '46 expert on watches, had some interesting tales to tell. 
"The class Mass was well attended, and 
we were honored to have as celebrant 
Msgr. Egan, brother of JIM EGAN. 
"ND's golf course took a beating from swingers like BOB WELCH, FRANK KOWALSKI, JOHN PRAWDZIK, PETE RICHISKI, and TOM SCHREIBER. The refreshment tents drew the '46ers in the evenings. Swapping recollections were JAMES CRONIN, BILL DUNNE, BILL FAHRNER, NORB GEIER, JOHN HEY­VAERT, VINCE JACOBS, Bro. BARRY LAMBOUR, JOHN McINERNEY, JACK MEULENDYK, TOM SHULER. BAR­NEY SLATER and RICHARD WILSON, as well as those named earlier. Twas a grand lime, lads, and may the 30th re­union be even bigger!" 
Now for other news of '46. 
It was brought to my attention by TIM HUGHES '61, managing editor of the ND ALUMNUS that THOMAS WARD '46 was to present the trophy to the winner of the S50.000 ARCH WARD Memorial Race at Arlington Park, Chicago, on Aug. 
4. The race is named after Tom's father, the late sports editor of The Chicago Tribune, a 1921 ND graduate. Tom is with 
U.S. Steel in Chicago and formerly worked for the company in New York and Washington. 
JAMES MOLIDOR '46 has been ap­pointed president and chief operating officer of Air Control and Air Shields, Inc., subsidiaries of Narco Scientific Indus­tries, Industrial Park, Fort Washington, Pa. James was vice president of marketing for 
C. R. Bard, Inc., in Murray Hill, N.J., prior to accepting the Narco appointment 
Last month I met FRANK KOWAL­SKI '46 at the New Jersey golf and dinner outing held at the Braidbum Country 
Club in Florham Park, NJ. The affair 
was a resounding success as those great 
ND Quarterbacks ANGELO BERTELLI 
'43 and FRANK TRIPUCKA '48 called 
all the plays. We were fortunate in hearing 
Coach JOSEPH YONTO '48 brief us on 
ND's academic and athletic future. Coach 
Yonto and Frank made my day a complete 
success. 
PETER RICHISKI '46 has called yours 
truly in regards to class news. Peter has 
been wonderful. On July 22 PETER and 
Helen with Judith, Peter Jr., Ellen and 
Carol were gracious enough to stop en 
route to Connecticut from Wildwood, 
NJ. to visit us. The Ricbiski children were 
absolutely wonderful. They are proof 
positive of the grand job Helen and Peter 
are doing. Come again. 
Hoping to see or hear from you '46ers. 
Diamond N. Commisa 
Jamestown Apartments 
221 Harrison St Apt 27 A 
NuUey, N.J. 07110 
'47 rr s BRIEF 17.7%* 
EDWARD G. O'CONNOR is now a sales 
manager for Prentice Hall Inc., in San 
Francisco and has moved from Chicago 
to 957 Las Pajas Ave., San Rafael, Calif, 
94903. Best wishes on his new assignment 
ARTHUR M. DIAMOND, president of 
Toastmasters International, addressed a 
district conference of Toastmasters, April 
24, at Rockford, 111. Diamond, a South 
Bend, Ind., attorney, has been active in 
the organization for 23 years. 
Please keep the news coming! 
Hope you had a great summer, relax, 
keep your cool! 
James J. Shea 
35 Liberty Terrace 
Ashley, Pa. 18706 
'49 UNTIL TUITION 19.2%* 
I recently received notice of the deaths of two classmates: JIM CLYNE Jr. died April 22. I recall Jim as a tall, thin, per­sonable lad who lived on the fourth floor of Badin. Jim was from New York City and rooming as he did near JOHN DUG­GAN of N.Y.C. and PETE KERN.AN of New Jersey that fourth-floor wing in Badin had some mighty lively "discussions." Just a few days later word from school reached me telling of the sudden passing, by heart attack, of PAUL LAMMERS on June 21. Muscular, strong and quiet Paul is remembered by many as a stalwart on both the basketball court and the baseball diamond. Paul's family burdens now fall to son David '71. Please remember all these people in your prayers. 
BILL BROCKHOFF sent me a note from Conover, N.C., to advise that his son, John, has been accepted for the frosh class at ND. That has to be a great feeling. .. . At least until the tuition no­tice arrives. Bill was enthmiastic that ND night was celebrated "down South and East" in Carolina. Since this was essentially a local effort, four ND alumni agreed to bring wives and meet at St Aloysius Church in Hickory, N.C., for Mass. After­wards the group moved to the home of JIM FARRELL '49 where "all enjoyed some good conversation and a toast or two to all alumni." While there DON WALZ '56 and his wife, Evelyn, showed slides of their recent "April in Paris" trip that was spon­sored by the Alumni Association. It was most enjoyable, according to BilL GEORGE STEWART '70 read a note addressed to the group by Father Hesburgh which, as always, was most appropriate and heart­warming. They concluded the evening at dinner "at a local Chinese spot" I don't know what plans you boys formulated at 

Congrats 

Abrams Fisher Haranzo 
Moriarty O'Brien Igleski 
Edward M. Abrams '50 has been elected president bf the Atlanta chapter of the American Jewish Committee. He also was reelected Georgia director for the International Council of Shopping Centers and serves as a director for the regional organization of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and of the ND Club of Atlanta. 
Robert C. Fisher '51 was named a director in the personnel depart­ment of the Republic Steel Corp., Cleveland. He is responsible for labor statistical matters, government-assisted manpower programs, employment standards and procedures, college recruitment and the general program of the corporation. 
James J. Haranzo '52L was elected mayor of Wheeling, W. Va. He is former secretary-treasurer of the Ohio Valley ND Club and also has served as its president. He is married to the former Kathleen O'Connor of Martins Ferry, Ohio. 
David W. Moriarty '52, M.S. '56 has been elected vice president-chemical development for Pfizer International. He joined the firm in 1958 at the Pfizer plant in Groton, Conn. He resides with his family at 84 Pierce Dr., Pleasantville, N.Y. 
J. Thomas O'Brien '53 was appointed one of six dealer consultants to the president of the Chrysler Corp. He is also chairman-elect of the Chrysler-Plymouth National Dealer Council. He is president of three Chrysler-Plymouth dealerships, of O'Brien Leasing, Inc., and Keystone Insurance Co. O'Brien and his wife, Joan, are the parents of 13 children. They live at 207 W. 77th St., Indianapolis, Ind. 46260. 
/ Thomas R. Igleski '55 has been named assistant general counsel of CNA Financial Corp., Chicago. He joined Continental Casualty Co., a CNA subsidiary, in 1956 as an actuarial trainee. Igleski earned a 
J.D. degree from DePaul U. in 1962. He, his wife and their two children live at 18545 Homewood Ave., Homewbod, 111. 
that Chinese place but it is significant, 
I think, that Nixon now has to visit 
Peking to straighten out the matter. 
I have a fev/ promotions and announce­
ments that the Alumni Office passed along 
to me. You will enjoy knowing, for ex­
ample, that PAUL F. SULLIVAN who has 
been with the Norton Co., since 1959 as 
a product engineer and product research 
division manager has been advanced to 
product manager, grinding accessories, for 
the grinding wheel division in Worcester, 
Mass. Paul received his master's in business 
administration from Northeastern U., 
some time ago. 
W. JAMES TYRRELL has been elected 
president of the First National Bank of 
Bradenton, Fla. Jim joined the bank as 
executive vice president in 1969 after 
working with the First Bank of Memphis, 
Tenn. Jim obviously is a "doer" because 
he pursued additional studies at Memphis 
State U., and earned an LL.B. He also 
holds degrees from the Graduate School 
of Banking at LSU and the Industrial 
Development Institute of the U. of 
Oklahoma. 
Or take the case of quarterback DON BEGLEY who has been named vice president and general manager of the chemical concentrates division of Baker Industries of Hanover Township, N.J. My old buddy, MIKE McGUlRE, has been appointed to a second five-year term as social services commissioner of Oneida County, N.Y. He has been welfare com­missioner since 1960 when he was elected to a three-year term which was followed by appointment to another three-year term under a new county charter. In 1966 he was appointed to his first five-year term. Mike Uves in Utica, N.Y., with his wife and their four children. And, Mike, when you see JACK O'ROURKE and RAY BELDEN, tell them we said "hello" and would appreciate a little note for the column. 
Naturally, the same thought goes out to all the readers of this space. I depleted a goodly portion of my news supply so the "help" flag flies once again. You'U be reading this in September. Cooler weather will be at hand and writing me won't seem Uke such a chore. You'd be surprised what help a simple postcard can be to me. 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'50 NAMED EDITOR 20.7%* 
DR. JAMES J. CARBERRY, professor of chemical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named editor of Chemical Reaction Engineering Reviews, a journal to be published by Marcel Dekker, Inc., of New York, N.Y. He will head a panel of 20 experts in the field from England, Denmark, West Ger­many, Italy, Czechoslovakia, Russia, Israel, Holland, Belgium, Japan and the United States. 
John M. Thornton 4400 Monserrate St. Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
'51 PIEROGIES AND RAVIOLI 22.4%* 
Tlie Alumni Office sent a report that TED TWARDZIK returned to Shenandoah, Pa., a couple of years after getting his degree. He set up business of making pierogies. His company bakes and dis­tributes this frozen delicacy throughout the Pennsylvania coal mining region, as well as north to Maine and west to Chicago. Note to Ted: JOE RIGALI is buying pierogies in Chicago, thawing them out. 

*Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
and selling them as Kigali's Ravioli. 
Therese Buckley saw Nancy Meagher at 
O'Hare in July. Nancy had a l'/4-year-oId 
in tow, and was on her way to San Fran­
cisco. ED MEAGHER just became do­
mestic and international sales manager 
for Electronic Arrays in Mountain View, 
Calif. There he will be responsible for all 
semiconductor products sales and activities. 
After we receive a new home address, we 
will pass it on. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Wamer Corp. 
200 S. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, III. 60604 
'52 CITATION 19.4%' 
DOUGLAS ROBERTSON was recenUy 
given a special citation from the city of 
Nashua, N.H., for devotion of time and 
energy toward that city in his capacity 
as attorney advisor in the olBce of the 
General Council for Latin America at the 
agency for international development in 
Washington. Doug was the first appointee 
of the mayor of Nashua of 1966 when he 
was appointed to the Nashua planning 
board. 
PAUL GIBBONS is traveling New Hampshire and Maine as a "big exec" for the Shelby Mutual Insurance Co. He is in search of some of Claey's delicious "puff balls" even though he says he has gained a little weight since leaving school. 
JOHN L. MINCK is hiding out in Palo Alto, Calif., where he has been working with Hewslett-Packard Co. mostly in marketing but for the past two years as department manager of a new venture in­volving solid-state diodes. He and his wife Jane have three children who enjoy the winter and summer sports of California. RAY TRITZ visited John recently from his home in St. Paul, Minn., where he works for Control Data. Ray says there's a good chance he will move to Arizona with his company. He is quality control man­ager in one of their plants in St. Paul. John also received a surprise visit from ROGER O'HARA. Roger lives in Walnut Creek, Calif., and is manager of Northern District sales for Pacific Tube. 
GEORGE GLASER. with McKinsey & Co. Consultants, recently returned from a year in Germany where he had an assignment. He and wife Pat have three children. 
Sorry for the lack of news but the mail­bag is pretty empty this trip, but don't forget the mini reunion scheduled for Oct 23 in the Mahogany Room at the Morris Inn. 
William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'54 NEWS OF ONE 24.5%* 
Were it not for the fact that I just spent a wonderful evening with a long-lost class­mate, I'd probably skip this article for the lack of mail. But just the other evening I had dinner with GEORGE B. OCON­NELL, his lovely wife and their four little ones: Bridget, Mike, Pat and Eileen. Now, let's face it, I've always been fat, but "fat" now has caught up with George. As I guzzled his gin, George put away two, maybe three Diet Pepsis. We en­joyed discussing old times. George is with Raytheon, just north of Boston and re­sides in Methuen, Mass. 
I've located a home and signed myself into debt (big) for the next 25. My new address is 6 Russet Lane, Andover, Mass. 01810. 
After just a few weeks in the area I think Boston is about ready for another tea party. Massachusetts taxes are unreal! Anyway, I'm only 40 minutes from Logan Airport and the Monsanto plant is only 15 minutes away, so give me a call and I'll 
bus over and feature you in the next 
Oh," I forgot — JERRY FINNEY 17, 
JERRY FINNEY 18, JERRY FINNEY 19, 
(GERALD J. FINNEY, 4741 Casann SL, 
Raleigh, Tenn. 38128). 
Surely CHARLIE SPICKA can work in 
a Hight up to Bean Town. LL Col. TOM 
SCHWIETZ has been graduated from the 
National War College at F t Leslie Mc-
Nair, Washington, D.C. He's headed for 
duty in Thailand. 
I don't expect to be at our reunion party 
after the first home game of this season, 
so hopefully DICK PILGER will send 
me an account of the proceedings. Pos­
sibly R.W. and R.P. might also send an 
account of the party if they stay sober 
long enough. 
Well, that's about it. I'm sure the total 
lack of mail these past few months sets 
some kind of record. Are you trying to 
tell me something? 
Milt Beaudine 
6 Russet Lane 
Andover, Mass. 01810 
'55 COVER STORIES AND CABBIES 21.8%* 
Hope you all caught RAY KENNEDY'S 
cover story on Lee Trevino in Time mag­
azine. Of course, I thought the publisher's 
note on Ray and family in the front of 
the book made better reading. In case you 
missed it, here are some quickies: 
"I'm just your typical, over-the-hill jock." . . . (Now, Rodent, how could a 5-7, 150-pounder be an athlete?) . . . "They would have paid me S35 a week, but I had a college degree, so I got S40." . . . (And who said an ND degree didn't mean anything?) .. . "I hung up my sneakers because when it comes to soft­ball, I'm a real male chauvinist pig. Somehow I cannot see myself hook-sliding into a lovely second baselady." . . . (Don't believe you could hit one far enough for a double, Ray.) 
Ray and Patsy have eight children, and she stole the editor's column with this news note. "Patsy now has a new extra­curricular scheme. Accustomed to chauf­feuring her kids to and from their West Side Manhattan apartment, she has applied to become a licensed cabbie as soon as her ninth child is bom in December. Says Patsy: 'I'm looking forward to the fun part of driving a taxi — bawling out the customers.'" (And who said it wasn't Fun City?) 
Want to bring you up to date on a few guys on the move. DAVE HOENE now is at 6610 Wedgewood Dr., Beaumont, Tex.; BILL TUNELL, 1309 Cadiz St., New Orieans; TIM NORTON, 4738 D La-Villa Marina, Marina Del Rey, Calif.; ART EGGERS, 5153 Vernon Ridge Dr., Dunwoody, Ga.; and BEN REIDY, 714 
S. Garfield, Hinsdale. 
Hats off to Class Agent GEORGE SHELTON and YOU for helping the Class of '55 lead the parade in last year's fund-raising. 
Looking forward to seeing you all after the us e game on Oct. 23. We'll have the same room in The Morris Inn — The Shamrock Room at the back of the build­ing. Be there! 
JOE MADIGAN, now director of public relations for the Marschalk Co. in Cleve­land, checked in with his comments on the football reunion: "I intend to be there with bells on. Particularly since I missed the 15th reunion last June. I'm anxious to get back and cut up a few touches. And who knows, perhaps I can import some members of the Cleveland contingent as well." 
Let's hope that some of you other guys in areas within driving distance — India­napolis, St. Louis, Milwaukee, Detroit, Toledo, etc. — get groups together so that 
we'll have a record turnout. 
For those of you starting the Christmas 
shopping, here are some new addresses: 
LEO KEENAN, 60 Washington St, East 
Orange, NJ.; GREG ESCH, 1303 Hill­
crest, SL Paul; TOM GALLAGHER, 40 
Brompton Rd., Garden City, N.Y.; JOHN 
JAHODA, 122 Turtle Cove Lane, Hunting­
ton, L.I., N.Y.; JOE McGLYNN, 65 
Broadview, Clayton, Mo.; PETE HARRI­
SON, 811 Forest Ave., Wheaton, 111.; 
JOHN HESTER, 4817 Central, Western 
Springs, 111.; DON EWBANK, 1127 6th 
St. Hermosa Beach, Calif.; KEVIN 
O'DONNELL, 1344 Wfllow Lane, Bir­
mingham, Mich.; AL KAELIN, 717 "K" 
St, Sacramento, Calif.; JOE HAGGERTY, 
604 E. Penn, Hoopeston, 111.; TOM 
SIERON, 5801 Kendon Dr., Dayton; 
KENT ROWE, 211 W. Washington, South 
Bend; DR. BILL OTOOLE, 189 Park Ave., 
Centenille, Mass.; and JOE HENEHAN, 
1862 Douglass Blvd.. Louisville. 
Believe that GENE CARRABINE is 
handling Big Ten football games this year. 
Have striped shirt will travel. If he's as 
good at calling penalties as he was at play­
ing defensive halfback, he'll be among the 
best 
Let me hear from you, gang! 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Drive 
Glenview, 111. 60025 
'56 CALLS DOCTORS 21.7%* 
Here is my first effort as a big-time columnist and already a failure. I mean to tell you I've hardly a tidbit of news. I guess I blew the wad on that letter last month. Good thing I made the reunion after all or I'd be the most uncommunica­tive class secretary you've ever had. On the other hand, too bad I did make the June bash; some other sucker would have been "hustled" into the post So let's go, guys—if you don't drop me a Hne once in a while, how else am I going to decide if you're worth writing about? 
Of course, I'm lucky to have some friends who write to me all the time — LEO LINBECK from Houston, JOHN FANNON from Cincinnau", GENE O'CONNOR in Buffalo, FRANK BEY­TAGH out of Soudi Bend. Some friends! All I get is grief: do this Al, do that AI, make sure you cover this Al. They just love me for my typewriter, not as a real person. 
Take our next reunion. DON CARLIN, our class prez, calls "Misty" FANNON, who in turn calls me to make sure I'll get the poop to you guys every chance I get: Southern Cal, Oct 23; bug them about getting their tickets in; remind them about room reservations. Then Carlin gets a hold of Beytagh who can't stop writing me stupid notes about my showing up early to arrange this, set up that leave the game during the third quarter, etc., etc. You want to know why they want me to miss half the game? 
Just so I'll be at the door early enough to personally greet all you slobs. Are you ready for that? I have to go all the way to South Bend, at my own expense no less, to play doorman. I have news for those guys — I'm not even going to show up! How do you like that? I'll just send the "Hippie" — RESCINITI. 
Linbeck's not so bad. He sent along a card from BOB MACKAY who said he was sorry he couldn't make the reunion because he got "detained" on business in Russia. I was so happy to receive this news about Bob since it confirmed a suspicion I've had about him all these years: the guy really is a spy. (We found that out the time we filled Bob's room full of paper balls, clear up to the ceiling, in Lyons Hall: Bob ratted on us.) 
Anybody remember JOHN A. NUTANT? 

Congrats 

Ashby Byrnes Blake 
Blair Miiller Smith 
Eugene C. Ashby '56, Ph.D. '57, chemistrj' professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Ga., received the Lavoisier Medal of the French Chemical Society at Lyon, France. He attended the meet­ing of the society as a plenary lecturer. Dr. Ashby has been on the Georgia Tech faculty for eight years. 
Robert M. Byrnes '59 is the new manager, labor relations, of the St. Regis Paper Co., New York, N.Y. Byrnes joined the firm in 1960 and served in various field positions. He lives at 253 Franklin Turn­pike, Allendale, N.J. 07401. 
Capt Ronald H. Blake '60 is the new chief of the data processing division at Sandia Base, N.M. He previously served at Phu Cat Air Base, Vietnam. Commissioned in 1962, he received an M.S. from Southern Methodist U. in 1969. 
James T. Blair '62 has been appointed director of banking for the 
U.S. Postal Service. He entered the Postal Service in 1969 after four years in the Navy and also served as a financial analyst with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Nicholas G. Muller '64 was elected corporate secretary and general counsel for Gates Learjet Corp., Denver, Colo. He joined Gates Learjet in 1969 as legal counsel for Gates Aviation Corp. Muller earned his J.D. degree from Boalt Hall Law School, U. of California at Berkeley. 
Thomas E. Smith '65 has been elected an assistant vice president of the Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Mich. In his new capacity he will have broad responsibility for underwriting activities of the Municipal Department. After graduation at ND he received an 
M.B.A. from the U. of Michigan. 
Seems John was recently picked by the government to join the Environmental 
Protection Agency, a 1- 2-year gig. John's a real heavyiveight ecologist, we're happy to report — he's an environmental sys­tems project manager for Westinghouse, where he conducted, we're told, hydro­dynamic studies underseas from 1966 to 1970 (he came up for air just once during all that time); he's also a Ph.D. from Maryland and a postdoctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins. (For such a smart guy, you'd think John could fix the stinking air.) 
Now how about a big, big hand for LEONARD L. HIERATH, who'll need one. Len just opened an office as an engi­neering consultant in Arvada, Colo, (a nice place to visit, but who'd want to live there?). Len's got guts—an engineering firm is just the thing to get into in this booming economy. 
I'll bet you don't remember Monsignor OSMUNDO A. CALIP. (I do.) Who can forget that terrific smile of his? But did you know he was one of our very own classmates? It seems Msgr. Calip, a professor in the Graduate School of Edu­cation, St. John's University, Jamaica, N.Y., was just cited for "outstanding spiritual and educational leadership among Filipinos in the United States" by the Philippine Communities Executive Council of New York and New Jersey. 'The award, by the way, was presented on the very day Msgr. Calip celebrated his 35th an­niversary as a priest (Double congratula­tions, Monsignor — from all your fellow '56ers.) 
Well, that's the extent of the news, folks. One last thing. I would like all the doctors (medical doctors, that is; no den­tists, please, you're all much too expen­sive) to drop me a line and tell me where you are, what you're doing, etc. We're going to give a plug to all the "Ben Caseys" in our class in one of our future columns. So all you GP's (better scratch that; no­body's a GP anymore), ENTs, gynecolo­gists, orthopedists, plastic surgeons (are you listening, Ange?), let's hear from you soon. I promise, it will only be a very light roasting. 
Take care. I'll talk to you next month. 
Albert M. Parillo 
6 Brantwood Terrace Short Hills, N.J. 07078 
'59 GO WEST, YOUNG MAN 21.3%* 
MIKE KURAS is now Western Region Manager for Valley Forge Life Insurance Co., with responsibility for marketing in 10 states. Mike, Barbara (and two children) live at 12527 Aristo PI.. Granada Hills, Calif. BOB KRIBEL, assistant professor of physics at Drake U., was selected by the Atomic Energy Commission to be the U.S. participant in the International Atomic Energy Agency's Fourth Conference on Plasma Physics and Controlled Nuclear Fusion Research in June at Madison, Wis. Bob was the author of a paper presented at the conference. He received an M.S. and Ph.D. from the U. of California at San Diego. ITie condolences of our class are extended to JOHN CHRISTENSEN, whose father died July 9. (John has a sister, SISTER HELEN CHRISTENSEN, R.S.M., who received an M.S. from ND in '62.) John has recently moved to Tallahassee (275 Knox Road, Apt. C-203) where he has assumed the position of County Administrator. 
DAVID A. MILLER is administration manager for IBM's Data Processing Division in Houston and is also pracu'cing law (2152 Watts Rd.). Dave is one of the few people I know who hands out two different business cards! Another attorney in our class (actually he's in a class by 

*Percentage of donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
himself!), MARK SHIELDS, has shifted 
to the presidential campaign staff of Sen. 
Edmund S. Muskie. Mark had been Ohio 
Governor John J. Gilligan's Washington 
representative. Ann and JIM COONEY 
(and five children) returned to the 
Canadian Lodge where they honeymooned 
12 years ago for their family vacation 
this summer. And now the Cooney children 
number 5'/il 
BOB HASSENGER reports the birth of 
Robert Kennedy Hassenger (June 27), that 
he spent last year teaching at Western 
Michigan U. and became Associate Pro­
fessor of Sociology at Kalamazoo College 
this month, and that he is the new editor 
of "Sociological Analysis," the official 
publication of the Association for the 
Sociology of Religion. At the end of this 
column you will find a new address for your 
scribe. After three years at du Lac, I now 
become Director of Development for 
Sacred Heart, Greenfield Hills, a pri­
vate girls' school in El Cajon, Calif. (San 
Diego area). Please visit — but more 
important, please send news! 
New moves: JOHN MANEY (Tulsa), 
GERRY BECHAMPS (Winchester, Va.), 
TIM GEORGE (Elk Rapids, Mich.), JOHN 
CONNOLLY (Livonia, Mich.), RICHARD 
SESSLHR (Big Rapids, Mich.), — 
Michigan must be "where it's at!" — DICK 
SAMPSON (Newton Falls, Mass.). JOE 
KLEIN (Redlands, Calif.), FLOYD 
SICHI (Hermosa Beach, Calif.). DAN 
CONWAY (Ballwin, Mo.), CHARLES 
AHERN (Detroit), NEAL LAMPING 
(Kirkland AFB, N.M.), RICHARD 
KOVALIK (Cincinnati), DAVE BARRETT 
(Tulsa), BILL TOUSSAINT (Morgan­
town, West Va.), RON MORDINI 
(Alexandria, Va.), DICK MOOTZ 
(BalUmore), NICK QUINTARELLI 
(Valencia, Calif.), DON ELLIS (Lake­
wood, Colo.), JOHN HARRON (Media, 
Pa.), BOB KILL (Balhvin, Mo.), VINCE 
NAIMOLI (Severna Park, Md.), JOHN 
KRIENS (AusUn, Tex.). DAN CAHILL 
(Rockville, Md.), JOE HOHL (Birming­
ham, Mich.), and TOM SMITH (Scotts­
dale, Ariz.). 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
2100 Greenfield Drive 
EI Cajon, California 92021 
'60L BASTION VANISHES 
One of the last bastions of bachelordom 
has vanished. On July 27, JOE MARINO 
married Mary Lucille Mack in Washington. 
Witnessing the event along with the 
writer was JOE CLANCY '58L. 
An avid ALUMNUS reader, Mrs. ROBERT 
K. BRANNON, SR. '30, noticing our plea for news in the last issue, reports that her son, ROBERT K. BRANNON, JR. '60, was presented The Chicago Tribune's Campbell Award for outstanding sales­manship. 
JOHN BORGERDING, where is Beloit? 
John A. DiNardo 
450 Oakland Drive 
Highland Park, 111. 60035 
'61 HOW ABOUT THAT! 24.4%* 
Some reunion leftovers: JOE LIBBY came all the way from the Washington, D.C., 
area to take a test at ND. Some said it was an old accounting exam that he forgot to take 10 years ago. Joe claimed it had something to do with becoming a certified life underwriter. 
DAVE SOMMER and TOM TAFEL­SKI rode in together from the East Coast. Dave is using those tricks of the trade he learned as a Dome photographer in his job as photo editor for Religious News Service in New York City. Tuffy Tafelski was in the process of getting his family moved from North Jersey to South Jersey. 
The executive V-P has been doing some 
long-distance commuting. I thought you 
had to be Irish or Italian to live in South 
Jersey. 

MARTY RONAN, still red-haired and 
freckle-faced but 50 pounds heavier, 
rolled in from Washington, D.C. He's 
working for the U.S. Information Agency. 
Also saw Marty later in July at a 
combined meeting of the ND-SMC 
Washington Clubs. 
BILL PFLAUM and JIM BROGAN 
made it from Dayton, O. Bill is in 
the publishing business and Jim is a 
lawyer. JOE PICHLER, Kansas U.'s 
answer to Mr. Chips, came back and 
\yaxed professorial to all those who would 
listen. No one did. Would someone please 
pass the hemlock? 
BOB DUFFEY hobbled back, injured leg 
and all. It seems that New York's finest 
free-lance artist was struck down by a 
wayward taxi in mid-town Manhattan. 
DENNY O'SHAUGHNESSY was rumored 
to have driven a Cadillac up from Jack­
sonville, Fla. Well, he works for the 
company — why not? 
PETE RODGERS, still from Drexel Hill, 
Pa., returned, but without his old sidekick 
ED McCAFFERTY. Ed had to cancel 
out at the last minute. His wife made him 
paint the house or something like that Did 
you get a load of JOHN RYAN? I made 
sure his photo was in the last ALUMNUS. 
Easily the most mod of the Class of '61. 
Everything's up-to-date in Kansas City. 
Must have talked to ED McANANEY a 
half-dozen times, but failed to ask him 
what he's doing to earn his room and 
board. PAUL HOLMAN is doing his own 
thing in Fort Wayne. 
Thanks to Rev. OLLIE WILLIAMS 
for saying the class Mass. Attendance was 
sparse, but big ED DALY was there. That 
alone renewed my faith in the Class of '61. 
Other news of classmates: GEORGE 
O'CONNELL, (now Rev.) is assistant 
director of labor and urban affairs at the 
U. of Minnesota. He was recently pro­moted to Research Fellow at the Univer­sity. BILL WOLTER has been admitted to the Illinois Bar in Springfield. He received a J.D. degree from John Marshall Law School, Chicago. DR. BOB BREWKA is practicing orthodontics in Littleton, Colo. 
Now is the time to sit down and jot a note to ARNIE LEPORATI, a man who has moved from the loading dock to the executive chair of letters for the Class of '61. As Amie's all-time favorite sports­caster would have said, "How about that!" TIM HUGHES pinch-hitting for: 
Arnold Leporati Jr. 
225-23-108th Ave. 
Queens Village, N.Y. 11429 
'62 WRITES IN JOURNAL 21.9%* 
The Spring 1971 issue of the Journal of Industrial Teacher Education contains an article by ROBERT P. BARTHOLOMEW, now assistant professor in the Department of Design and Environmental Analysis at Cornell U., Ithaca, N.Y. The article, done in collaboration with a professor of En^ish, emphasizes the common elements in literature and design and explores the possibility of teachers of both subjects using an interdisciplinary approach in the classroom. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Md. 20034. 
'65 BUSY IN TEXAS 24.9%* 
JOE DeGREGORIO is living in Houston with his wife, Fran, and five-year-old son. 
Joey. Joe puts his Ph.D. in chemistty to 
good use in Shell Oil Co.'s research and 
development division. In his spare time Joe 
also serves on the board of directors of 
"Big Brothers" helping to organize "sub­
stitute" fathers for the unfortunate children 
in the Houston area. Last December 
MATT LAMBERT was married to Karia 
Verdelle Weik in Battle Creek, Mich. 
Matt is in his second year of surgical resi­
dency at University Hospital in Ann Arbor 
and his wife is working as a commercial 
artist. In the midst of all his training he 
also managed to squeeze in a month last 
year working with the Shoshone and 
Arapahoe Indians at Fort Washakie, Wyo. 
JIM CONWAY has recently joined the 
staff of Coverdale & Colpitts, Inc., a Wall 
Street consulting firm. He has also just 
received his M.S. in management science 
at L.I.U. He and his wife, Maureen 
(Maiymount '67) are living in Flushing, 
N.Y. BILL KEARNS and his wife, Carol, live in Downey, Calif. (10317 La Reina, Apt. E). After his Army tour in Germany, he became a probation officer for L.A. County and worked with VINCE MAT­TERA. At present Bill is in his second year of Law School at U. of Southern Cal. 
RICK McMANUS recently received a 
J.D. from the U. of Denver Law School and is working with the Colorado attorney general's office while contemplating open­ing his own office. He also plans to end his bachelorhood this summer. PAT CONROY is teaching high school in Denver and has gained an excellent standing as the school's head track coach. He married Dale Atkins from Vancouver, B.C., and has two girls and one boy. 
JOHN MOYE is serving with J.A.E. at Lowry AFB in Denver and recently was admitted to the Colorado Bar after his graduation from Cornell Law School. In his spare time John also tea hes several courses at the Denver U. Law School and has co-authored a law text with a professor from ComelL He and his wife, Patty (sister of Mike Theisen), have one girl and are expecting another. MIKE THEISEN has just returned from seven months in Australia with his family as Chrysler Credit Corp.'s man on the scene. He and his wife, Kathy, have two children and are expecting their third shortly. TOM GUTRICH is also living in Denver with his wife, Peggy, and their three sons. Tom is in the process of starting his own real estate development business. 
MIKE NUMAINVILLE has purchased a home in Larkspur, Calif., where he lives with his wife, Julie, and their year-old son, Thomas Anthony II. He is working In San Francisco with Arthur Andersen & Co. In June '69 Mike received an MBA from the U. of Calif., Berkeley, and in December "70 he earned a CPA certificate. KEN ODMARK is a CPA with Hoskins & Sells in Chicago and was married last October. DALE ALTHOFF is teaching theology at DePauI U. JIM MOGOGNA received his J.D. from Stanford Law School in '68 and returned to Wyoming to run his sheep ranch. 
BILL CARRETTA and BILL HAFEL received MBA degrees in June from the 
U. of Santa Qara, Calif. PAUL KNIP­PER was recently appointed to a staff position in the Peace Corps on the Ivory Coast of West Africa. Paul and his wife. Sheila, were married last year while work­ing at the Peace Corps headquarters in Washington, D.C. They will live in the capital city of Abidjan. 
JOHN BERNOTAVICZ received his 
J.D. from Georgetown U. Law Center and passed the D.C. bar in Jan. 71. He has just returned from a trip around the world with his wife, Freda, and is now working as special assistant to the chair­man of the National Urban Coalition. FRANK MAY has just completed the MBA program at the U. of Virginia and is now wiUi IBM in Kingston, N.Y., doing business planning. LARRY RYAN (Ph.D.) has joined the scientific staff of RCA 
The Split-Screeii. Stop-Action. Slow-Mo. Video-Topo Instant-Ropioy Kid 
Laboratories at the David Sarnoff Center 
in Princeton. He is a member of the 
peripheral group of the Digital Systems 
Research 1^ . He and his wife, Anne, 
and their daughter live in Cranbury, NJ. 
PAUL REITER's wife, Kathy, gave birth 
in June to a girl, Elizabeth Ann. 
James P. Hamisch, M.D. 
8661 S.E. 71st Place Mercer Island, Wash. 98040 
'66 BEAT STATE — BE THERE! 24.1%* 
By the time you peruse this bit of class news both fall and the gridiron season will be upon us — and it looks like another good football year for the Irish, so place your bets now. Keep in mind our class get-together following the MSU game Oct. 2 in the ACC. Simply look for the '66 banner. 
PAUL O'BRIEN writes that after spend­ing more than three years in the Marines, part of which was in the Far East, he will complete work on an MBA at NYU this faU. CHRIS RONAY and his wife, Pat, report that they are still soaking up the seasonal F t Benning, Ga., rains this 

September 24, 1966. The Irish enter­
tain Purdue. A debut for three of 
Notre Dame's finest — Terry Han-
ratty, Jim Seymour, Don Ohlmeyer. 
Before you ask "Don Which?" con­
sider this: Now, five years later, as 
Hanratty and Seymour struggle to 
crack starting lineups in Pittsburgh 
and Chicago, Donald W. Ohlmeyer, 
Jr., '67, of Bronxville, N.Y., spends 
his autumn as director of the replay 
unit for ABC Television's Monday 
Night Pro Football series. 
Son of a 1949 ND graduate, Ohl­meyer got his ABC break via Jim Feeney, a '58 alumnus. Ohlmeyer wandered into a pool hall on Michi­gan Street the night before the Purdue game. There he found Feeney, an ABC associate producer in for the game, shot him a rack of pool and accepted his invitation to join the telecast crew. 
Next afternoon, Fling and Cling did their thing for 12 completions, 187 yards and two touchdowns. Ohlmeyer, meanwhile, "gofered" (go for this, go for that) the sidelines for ABC's production assistant. He worked the legendary Michigan State game that year and a few other remotes. 
Don was married to the former Dossie MahafFey during Easter break of 1967, graduated with a communi­cation arts degree in June, vacationed a few weeks in Europe and joined the network full-time in July, 1967. 
One year later, at age 23, he be­came the youngest associate director in the history of ABC sports. Since 
summer but hope for a change this coming 
spring. It seems Chris's tour of Army duty 
may take them to Greece. After his dis­charge he is hoping for an assignment 
with the FBI as a special agent. 
BOB SCHWARTZ writes of his work with Investor's Diversified Services in Killeen, Tex., following a service tour that deposited him in the Lone Star state. Bob has just been promoted to branch manager and will be transferred to another Texas location. Recently, while on vacation in Buffalo I was headed out for a round of golf when I was stopped by a "you prob­ably don't remember me, but . . ." from MIKE MEUSE, a classmate of ours who spent three years with us under the Dome before joining the Marines. He finished up at ND in 1970 and is now completing work on an MBA at the U. of Buffalo. Mike, when you read this, send us your new address. 
CAP GAGNON reports that JOE GUILTINAN and DICK GARRETT re­cently stopped by to visit him on their way to TOM TALAGA's wedding in Chi­cago. LARRY ALLEN has also dropped in on the Gagnons a couple of times re­cently. After completing his internship in St Louis, Larry is expecting a call from Uncle Sam any time now. BOB CONWAY recently wrote Cap that he is working 
then, he has covered such events as 
the Gold Cup hydroplane races, the 
1968 Summer Olympics, the World 
Bobsledding Championships, the In­
dianapolis 500 and directed two series. 
Pro Bowlers Tour and the NCAA 
Football Scoreboard postgame show. 
"My most enjoyable and rewarding 
show was the tribute to Vince Lom­
bardi, which aired last year," says 
•Don. He regards his new assignment with nearly equal relish, however. 
"We're going to try to do things 
on Monday that you won't see on 
Saturday or Sunday," Ohlmeyer ex­
plains. "We've tried to humanize and 
personalize the events we telecast. 
"For instance, Chet Forte, our pro­
ducer-director on the Monday series, 
favors a tight facial shot of the quar­
terback calling plays in the huddle. 
We want to show him as a person 
with reactions and emotion, not as a 
mere figure in helmet and shoulder 
pads." 
ABC will cover pro football with an all-time-high nine cameras and continue to pioneer a two-unit system for production. "We've reached a level of sophistication which permits one unit to be concerned with only the live broadcast, while the other works with isolation,.slow motion and video tape replay," says Don. "I'll be direct­ing the tape unit and working very closely with a producer named Denny Lewin, who," Ohlmeyer adds with a half-smile, "happens to be a 1966 graduate of Michigan State." 
—Terry O'Neiini 
with a finance company in NYC and ex­
pects to be out this way in the fall. By 
the way, the Gagnons should be able to 
handle upcoming company as they just 
bought a home here in South Bend. House­
warming gifts may be sent to the 
Admissions Office. 
DON BOUFFARD reports that JOE 
JOHN is now a resident in medicine at 
Rush Medical Center in Chicago and was 
married this past June. JACK SULLIVAN 
is currently employed as a tax manager 
with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell in Chi­
cago, and he and Cindy have quite an Irish 
family going for themselves. 
That's about the size of our class news 
for this issue. If you have any, let us hear 
about it. See you Oct. 2. BEAT STATE! 
Tom Sullivan Development Office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'67 NEWS DELUGE 21.1% * 
As in past articles, there is an enjoyable presence of news from first correspondents. But dozens of you guys are yet to break the ice. I promise—it's painless; so how about a short note? 

*Percenlage o) donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
Former ND swimmer BOB HUSSON came up for air long enough to drop me a note explaining that for the past two years he has been a programmer in the Navy. In the meantime, he is working towards a master's degree in numerical science at Johns Hopkins U. which he hopes to complete by June 72. Bob assures us that he is "quite" single and really likes the Washington, D.C., area. Bob's programming work has brought him into contact with another NDer, ED HULTGREN, who is also doing some computer work for Uncle Sam as a civilian. 
TOM GETZ reports from Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., that he is still with Ford Motor Co. now as a systems analyst at Dearborn. Tom's work location has made it possible for him to pursue his MBA at the U. of Michigan, Dearborn Extension. Since Aug. '69, Tom and his wife have been enjoying marital bliss; and as a couple have been with the TIM LONG­STRETCH and JOHN HEGARTY clans for a visit to the alma mater. Tim is in his home town of Zanesville and supposedly still teaching and coaching high school. 
After teaching in an all-girl high school in Cleveland for two years, DICK VEIT has spent this past year "ski-bumming" in Aspen. Fellow Innsbruckers who have "bummed" off of Dick this year include TOM MALONE. DAVE BUCKLEY, and JOHN TSCHETTER. Not to be outdone, Dick's former roommate, CHARLIE IM­BUS, and his wife, Sherri, came to enjoy the Aspen country, too. Dick will be entering the Ph.D. program in English at the U. of Iowa. Some brief notes include: JOHN 
L. HOELSCHER JR. has been elected president of the Buffalo Jaycees and is the youngest person ever elected to his post; CapL CHARLES E. FEICHT is supply management officer at Da Nang AFB providing service for F-4 Phantom jets; JOHN M. ATKINSON has been assigned to Columbus AFB, Miss., for pilot training following his commission as a 2nd Lt. in the USAF; and now that ED and Kathy MANKEY have a home in Peru, Ind., a little Mankey, Michelle Babette, decided to arrive this past May to share the new surroundings. 
After graduation BILL CROWLEY spent three years in the Army infantry includ­ing one year in Asia. Having made it back safely. Bill has been pursuing a MBA at the U. of Miami in Florida. He is looking for the Irish in the fall. 
Having graduated from the Cornell Law School and having been admitted to the Michigan bar, BERNIE McARA is pres­ently practicing law in Flint, Mich., with McAra & Palmer. In January '70 Bernard was married to Louise Sfceen in Atlanta, Ga. Among those in attendance were STEVEN WASSINGER, STEVE NORTHRUP. PAUL McCONVlLLE, and DON POTTER. Steven is presently in Oxford, England, working on his doctorate. He and his wife, the former Kay Cas­salini (SMC '66), are the proud parents of twin girls. Steve Northrup recently has returned from his service in Viet Nam and is presently considering acceptance from Harvard Law School and the U. of Michigan Law School. PAUL, having proved himself to be a "basket case" to the satis­faction of Army examiners, is practicing law in New York City. He also graduated from Cornell Law School. Having sold his soul to Standard Oil Company, Don Potter presently is working out of their London office where he has managed to create several monetary crises. He journeyed to the U.S., Chicago no less, to be married. Bemie continues by mentioning that two of our classmates arc presently in the warm climes of So. Calif. JIM VER­NETTI and his wife, Joanie, live outside of Los Angeles with their daughter. Jim is coaching and teaching in high school. MIKE IRVINE and his wife, Carolyn, (SMC '66) are also in the L.A. area where 
Mike IS being presided over by his two daughters. Also graduating from the Cornell Law School is TOM HYDEN who has returned to the Grand Rapids area as a married man. It's reported that Tom was looking forward with a certain amount of relish to the Old-timers' Hockey game. In his concluding remarks Bernie surprises us with the fact that CHUCK VEGARA "is presently serving thirty-five years in the Navajo Penitentiary for impersonation of a Medicine Man." 
Thanks, fellas, for the deluge of friendly and informative mail. 
Jack Buttler 4023 Elaine Place So. Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'68 MANY MOVE 24%' 
JIMMY FISHBURNE is employed by the Eastman Kodak Co. in their business and technical training program. Jim, his lovely wife, Barbara, and their daughter now re­side in Rochester, N.Y. 
The stork has greeted MIKE and Val BRESNAHAN with a baby giri, Michelle. Mike is with the U.S. Navy in Japan and plans to enter the MBA program at ND in the faU. RICH CALONE and TIM CONNELLY were awarded J.D. degrees from the U. of Santa Clara Law School in June. 
And now some news from the military. Capt. JOHN MEANEY was awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious service in Vietnam. He is assigned to the 82nd Air­borne Division, Ft. Bragg, N.C. Lt. JERRY CARROLL has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for achieve­ment in Vietnam. Jerry is now stationed at McGuire AFB, N.J., and serves as a cargo-troop pilot. Lt. MIKE TOMASULO is serving with a unit of the Pacific Air Forces and is at Kusan Air Base, Korea. Capt. JOHN VENHOFF has returned from his tour of duty with the Army in Ger­many and is now assigned to Vietnam. Also in Nam is 2nd Lt. JOE MARTEL­LARO with Military Intelligence. DAVE ZENKEL is with the U.S. Navy in Virginia. Before he enlisted, Dave was staff accountant with Haskins & Sells in Rochester. While Dave was in Keflavik, Iceland, he ran into MIKE CUDDY. Capt. TOM CURTAIN is due to rotate back to the States after a tour of duty with Uncle Sam in Korea. Tom was the security officer for the PX Depot at Inchon. Lt JOHN BRODERICK and his wife, Jan, have returned from Germany. John is scheduled to be assigned to Thailand while his wife will work for her M.A. in French at the U. of Rochester. 
On behalf of the class I would like to extend our sincere condolences and prayers to TOM DURKIN and GEORGE DURKIN '56 on the death of their mother, and to GARY GHIGLIOTTI on the death of his father. ED WILBRAHAM has returned to civilian life after a two-year hitch in the Army. He has returned to Villanova Law School to resume his studies. 
JOHN SIVERD is with the Irving Trust Co. in their portfolio management depart­ment. John, his wife, Nancy, and their two sons live in Orange, N.J. 
Thanks for some news from MARTY BARRY. Marty is studying for his master's at Seton Hall and worked for the summer at the Osprey Hotel in Manas­quan, NJ. Marty informs us that JIM TATE is married to the former Debbie Gorman and is a math teacher in Wey­mouth, Mass. TOM KNOWLES is at De Paul Law School. TED NEBEL received his degree from the U. of Chicago Law School. MIKE McINTYRE, having served his commitment to Uncle Sam, is now at Temple Law School. DENNIS DOHERTY is director of the Midtown Alliance, a social works organization in Atlanta, Ga. 
ED PIERSON has received bis MBA from Bowling Green U. and is a systems analyst with Whirlpool Corp. in Clyde, Ohio. Ed, his wife, Pat, and their two children live in Fremont, Ohio. 
Our class is well represented at the U. of Louisville Law School with TERRY MULLAN, JOHN McSHANE, BILL BACUS, JIM HARVEY, DREW HELL­MOUTH. BILL FLEMING, and RON GALLUZZO. Ron has left the bachelor ranks and is married to the former Ann Miller. 
Best wishes for a speedy recovery to KEVIN QUINN at the VA Hospital in Miami, Florida. 
Congratulations to PHIL and Mimi MIKA on the arrival of Robert William on June 18 in Columbus, Ohio. Phil is in his fourth year of medical school at Ohio State. Also at OSU med school are TOM FURLONG and TOM GOODENOW. 
BILL BOMBERGER is engaged in doc­toral studies at Brown U. and is the recipient of a Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship. GEORGE CARR JR. has been appointed first executive director of the Greater Greensboro Housing Foundation, Greensboro, N.C. He was formerly project director of the Greater Hartford Develop­ment Fund. Hartford, Conn. Your class secretary is now employed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the Bank Examinations Department I am continuing my graduate studies at Fairleigh Dickin­son U., in N.J. 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 1300 Rock Ave. L-5 
N. Plainfield, NJ. 07060 
'69 AT LAST! 18.5%* 
At last, a letter from JOHN KENEFICK! John was sparked to write when he ran into ERNIE GARGARO in a local pub in Chicago, who boasted about his master­piece(?). John noted that I forgot to mention that Ernie has lost about 40 lbs. besides changing to the dry look. Ernie was in Chicago at the time for EBBY MORAN's wedding. Anyway, on with the letter. 
In January John traveled to Fowler, Ind., for DEAN BENNER's wedding to his long-time sweetheart Cheryl. Attending Dean in the wedding party were LOUIE LEONE TOM "T R" RYAN and GREG SCHATZ. Other ND men at the occasion were TOM BREEN. JOHN QUINN and RALPH WILLIAMS. Two weU-wishers called everybody on the night before from Dallas. AL LUTZ and DICK MERRITT both expressed that they were enjoying the southern climate. Louie, T R, Greg and Breeno are all in their third year of law school. John Quinn is an accountant in Indianapolis. Ralph is in sales in Min­neapolis, AI is in Dallas with PPAG and Dick is working on his master's. Dean and his bride are back in Chicago as Dean is studying for his MBA at Loyola. 
St Patrick's Day in Chicago called for the usual celebration and BILL WADE organized a small gathering at a local pub. He and his wife. Cindi. were celebrating a new addition to their family — a baby girl named Erin. I ater in the evening RICK REMBUSCH and his wife, Jeral, stopped by all the way from Indiana U. where Rick is in law school. He reported that his classmate JOHN STURM is doing well. One of the last to arrive was BILL LUKING who attends Northwestern Law School. Bill mentioned that two of his cla-ssmates. TOM DUDA and BOB SACOFF, both had their studies inter­rupted by the Reserves. Tom, however, fared the better of the two by being dis­charged while on active duty and was married over Memorial weekend at ND. 
Also enjoying life in Chicago is MIKE McDERMOTT. Mike is working for the Northern Tnist Bank and attending Loyola at night for his MBA. KEVIN REAR­DON, a fellow employee of John, has also received his MBA from Loyola. John ran into SANDY BISIGNANO at the U. of Chicago. Sandy mentioned he, too, had received his MBA and like Kevin has his ROTO obligation ahead of him. 
TOM LADKY recently left Chicago to reside in Milwaukee where he has ac­cepted a sales position. Located in the Washington, D.C., area are DICK FAR­RELL and his wife, Irene. Dick is now the managing editor of a weekly magazine. He reports that TOM (Alto Bear) ALT­MEYER was still living at the U. of Conn, where he received his MBA. 
Early in the summer ED "Z" ZAWACKI was in Chicago for a wedding, stating that he and BOB FOLKS were doing well in New York at law school. In June, LOU LANWERMEYER and his wife. Barb, moved to Chicago. Lou has finished his hitch with Uncle Sam and is currently working for his MBA at Northwestern. 
As for himself, John reports he has 
been working for Inland Steel since gradu­
ation and has now started night classes at 
the U. of Chicago for his MBA. 
Thanks for all the news, John. You write a good letter. Only the next time try to mix in a few Ph.D.s, J.D.S, M.S. for variety. 
From Texas, JOHN PUTZEL let us know that he is now at the U. of Texas Law School in Austin. For the past two years John has taught high school in SL Louis. John reports that BILL DELL is now teaching high school in Los Angeles after spending two years in Cleveland. At last word BARRY BREEN was teaching at a girls' high school in New Rochelle, N.Y., and enjoying it STEVE HELLRUNG is in his third year of law school at ND. CRAIG MALONE is at Stanford working on his doctorate in poliU"cal science. BILL McCULLY is presently spending six months in Paris doing research for a doctorate in histop' from ND. JIM PEL­LEGRIN is working at a hospital in Boston, doing his alternative service as a CO. 
The news on JACK MORAN is that last summer he received his MBA from Syracuse. The next month Jack was drafted and later assigned to the Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth, NJ. He has since become an instructor of the Com­munication Security Division. Within this busy schedule Jack was even able to spend 10 days vacationing in Hawaii. Lt PETER SULLIVAN completed the academic phase of combat aircrew training as a pilot at Castle AFB, Calif. He has now been assigned to Beale AFB, Calif, for duty with a unit of SAC. 
Enjoyed a few brews tonight with PETE McKJEE and his wife, Diane. Pete is cur­rently employed with Standard Oil of NJ. in New Brunswick. Pete reports he occa­sionally sees TOM O'CONNOR and his wife, Judy, as Tom is gainfully employed with Humble Oil of nearly Plainfield, NJ. Also, JIM RICE was married last summer to Kathy Dent (SMC). Jim delayed his law studies at U. of Michigan for one semester, as he and his new bride honey­mooned in Europe through Thanksgiving. (Excellent idea.) DICK NICOLOSI and his wife, Kathy, apparently are still in Chicago as Dick continues his work with Procter and Gamble. 
The mail was light this summer, a sure sign everyone was having a great time. Suddenly now the football season is upon us. Let's make it a point to gather in our designated area of the A & CC after each game. There is no better way to recall those tremendous years of the past than shaking hands (and maybe indulging in a few) with you old roommate. If I'm not there to take notes (can't make every­thing) please forward any gossip you might 

be willing to share with the rest of the class. PEACE, 
Mike Neumeister 64 West Winspear Ave. Buffalo, N.Y. 14214 

'69 MBA DOUBLE CONGRATS 
Belated congratulations to JIM and 
SANDY HORES on the arrival of their second child. Liane Jean was bom on May 25, just in time for brother Brian's second birthday. Double congratulations are due the Hores family, Jim has recently been named the acting director of the planning division of West Virginia's Governor's Office of Federal State Relations. 
We were recently favored with some photographs of the JOHN KNITTEL family, which is getting to be quite a group. John, Rita and the two kids are looking great Rita must be working John too hard; be appears to be a mere shadow of his former self. 
JOE McCOURT has a new assignment with V. Mueller Co. Joe now represents 
V. Mueller in the New York - Northern New Jersey territory. The McCourts' new address is 44 Center Grove Rd., Apt 47, Dover, N.J. Joe and Peg have been busy visiting with some of our East Coast MBA's including ARCHIE SULLIVAN and KEN SAMARA. 
I'm afraid that's all the news for now. Many of us will soon be seeing each other in South Bend and exchanging news. We currently have definite plans to attend the Northwestern and North Carolina games. Hope to see you there. Look for the guy with the reporter's notebook. 
Joe Cavato 7122 Vernon University City, Mo. 63130 
'70 DRUMMERS AND BUGLERS 

Several people have sent me letters with 
news of the Class of 70. It seems the best feature of this position is the mail I get 
RALPH HORVATH wrote from Lowry AFB in Denver, Box B-4073, where he will be director of the drum and bugle corps until October. After graduation he worked for four months for NASA in Cleveland before enlisting. Now his eneneering talent is employed on the electronics and mechanics of B-52 navigation. Ralph is not too happy with the work but is proud to report his corps was judged better than the Marine drummers and buglers. 
Other Alumni Hall veterans were men­tioned in his letter. BILL HEDERMAN is studying for his M.S. in electrical engi­neering at M.I.T. JAY FLEMING is doing the same at Cornell. DAN OBERST was at M.I.T. in linguistics for a short time but is now with the Teaching Corps in San lose, Calif. LARRY MOSER met a girl in Washington, D.C., while on active duty with the National Guard and will be married this winter. 
I missed the BILL SORRELL-Ruth Dennis (SMC '70) wedding, July 3, but FRED NACHTWEY made a full report Father Bartell said Mass to the accom­paniment of four old Moreau musicians, including BILL WOLFE. Guests included JOHN ZIMMERMAN, now at Wisconsin Law School, and his roommate, JIM MURPHY, who is studying reproduction biology and expects to receive his master's next summer. MIKE MORRISSEY now lives with a bachelor professor in Madison and teaches four hours a week. In the fall he will fly to Europe to visit sisters in Spain and France. He expects to return for the national bicentennial celebration in 1976. RICK MORAN is in the Tufte graduate English program. He will teach two courses in the fall. DENNY HAND is now sweating in the Gaiy steel mills. In September he will enter the seminary either in Boston or Rome. KELLY KNAUER sent greetings from Europe and reported he will resume teaching in New York this fall. JOHN WALL also will teach again in St Louis. 
Now for some news of those under­privileged souls who did not live in Alumni. Some 1 didn't meet at ND but I have en­joyed looking them up in the yearbook. So might you. 
Four men are back in South Bend. NEWT UNDERWOOD is in bio- engineer­ing, ELMER J. KUHN III in structural analysis, BOB McGREGOR in environ­mental control and BOB MITSCH is in electrical engineering. He married Berna­dette Voipe (SMC '71) in June. 
JOHN and Marie COUGHLIN became parents on April 19. They and their son, Michael, are now in Middletown, Conn. 
DAVE DEWAN and wife, Marsha (SMC '70) are in Houston where he is a chemist and she is a teacher. DAN McELROY is selling coast to coast for a grain products company. JOE COSITORE wrote from the Bronx where he is a securities analyst for Stone and Webster. He wants JOHN (Fuzzy) DWYER to write him at 334 E. 239th St in the Bronx. 
RUSSELL B'iTlNE and JOHN HEN­NESSEY are trying to become sawbones at Virginia. BOB CABAJ and Harvard get along well, too. CHARLES (Eagle) PAT­TERSON, after a year of graduate work in geology at Nevada, will return to ND in the fall to work for an MBA. 
RUSTY WEITZEL finally graduated in August and now works in St. Joseph, Mich. I hope he patronizes my cousin's pizza parlor there, Petrone's Patio. PHIL RICE just finished his National Guard active duty and will enter Marquette Law School. PHIL EGAN works for All-State in White Plains, N.Y. 
Among the more adventurous of our class is RICK LIBOWITZ. Perhaps you read his article in a recent ALUMNUS about his studies in Israel. He returned to the States in July and may attend Temple in the fall. This according to RICK Mc-DONOUGH, whose fame is spreading up and down the Jersey shore. Also in the National Guard, Rick is very active in the communication business. After six weeks at Lackland AFB, he wrote for the McGuire AFB newspaper for the rest of basic training. "This was followed by six months of radio news and now he's a disc jockey from 3 to 8 p.m. daily for WOBM-FM, Toms River, N.J. Give him a listen. 
MIKE LAVELLE is back home working for an MBA at Ohio State. Another MBA candidate is BILL McCAHILL at Hofstra while working at the Chase Man­hattan Bank in New York. GARY GLEASON WPS married in June to the former Sue Bracco (SMC 70) and is working for the Metropolitan Transit Authority in New York. 
Prospective lawyers from our class in­clude DICK WHITE at San Francisco, BILL BROWN at Boston College, PAT ZIKA and NICK SHIRALLl at Indiana. Nick spent the summer with a community legal clinic in Denver. JOHN MICHA and Atlanta are agreeing, but I wonder if GREG GICZI and Norfolk and the Navy Reserve are as happy. 
SERGIO BAEZA is now with the Eco­nomics Institute at the Catholic U. in Santiago, Chile. He may pursue doctoral studies in 1972 in America or France. 
I received a very nice letter from MIKE McALEER. He wrote, "After graduation last year the memory of ND was jolted out of my mind by the Navy. Those stimulat­ing days are well remembered now. I am in Long Beach, Calif., in an apartment with JACK and WILL PIERCE. Jack is as­signed to the U.S.S. Juneau LPD-10 and Will is doing fine also. Since Jack and I have arrived back in the States from seven-month tours in the Western Pacific we have 

•Percentage o/ donors to the ND Annual Fund as of July 1971. 
had several letters from CHRIS SER­
VANT. Chris is in great shape and as 
always his own exuberant self." 
Mike also mentioned the death of TIM 
MacCARRY on March 18. His influence at 
ND will always be warmly remembered. 
When many of us were very timid about 
our relation to the war and the military in 
general, he had the courage and good sense 
to speak out. He was a gentle man, full of 
love for his fellow man. It is with sorrow 
that I note his death. 
This wraps up my news for the month, 
but I'll be back with you next issue. 
Thanks go to all of you who have written. 
If you are ever in St. Louis, stop by or 
give me a call. 
Don Graham 
1155 Claytom'a Terrace 
Richmond Heights, Mo. 63117 
'71 MAIL CALL 
Now that I've left South Bend I have to rely 
on what I hear through the mail for this 
column. This summer at school I could 
always count on picking up bits of informa­
tion from people passing through. In late 
July I ran into BOB BRAMLETTE who 
stopped by the campus on his way home 
from summer camp. He was due to be 
commissioned shortly. About that same 
time ED DAVEY was leaving for Army 
Reserve training at Ft. Dix, NJ. That's not 
too far from home for him. 
On the job scene, CASEY SCHWEIN­FEST works for Avis and they keep him travelling. Last I heard, he was in Miami. PAT O'NEILL now works for the Internal Revenue Service in Chicago. PAT LENE­HAN works in a liquor store in Cleveland. Both Pats have been deluged with requests for friendly considerations. 
STEVE PRICE is going to Zambia to teach in a Jesuit school there. MIKE SHAUGHNESSEY spent most of the sum­mer travelling around the country. "Shag" spent a lot of his time going to weddings. One was TIM CONNER'S wedding to Terri Gebhardt. Also in attendance were RON WALRO, RON ZABOROWSKI, GREG SMITH and TIM ROST. Afterwards Tim Rost returned to ND to continue work on his master's in Chem. Engineering. MARK ZIMMERMAN made it up from Athens, Ga., for JACK SHAEFER's wedding in Detroit. Jack married Cathy Higgins of Warren, Mich., and M.S.U. Best of luck to them and to all the couples who were married this summer. 
Right now I am at the Navy's Nuclear Power School along with GENE SULLI­VAN and CLYDE McFARLAND. Note that I have a new address for the next six months. I hope some of you will get the chance to write or stop in and see me. Until then, peace. 
Tony Earley 
1505 East 4th Street 
Benicia, Calif. 94510 
'71 MBA TIME LAG 
In case you're wondering, there is a lag of about five weeks between the time I mail the column in to the Alumni Oflice and the time you receive the ALUMNUS issue. Anyone wishing to notify the Alumni Office of a change of address can send the address to me and I will forward it. TODD and Mary HELMEKE are now at 2925 Drew Ave. South, Minneapolis, 55416, and extend an invitation to any of the class who might be in the area to stop in. Todd says that MIKE GREENE and TERRY WALTS both have been given a three-month opUon by Uncle Sam. Same is true for LES LARSEN. It is my under­standing Uiat Les will be assigned to a telephone booth just outside the Pentagon, and will also be on temporary assignment 
with Perry Wilson of the Daily Planet!! 
SOCKETS VAUGHAN and JOHN HAL­
LORAN stopped by the house! Sockets 
will start with Arthur Andersen on July 17, 
and John will be off to London in Sep­
tember to study — as will FRANK 
WOELFLING. TERRY and Judy BLAIR 
also were over. He's ofT to Ohio State in 
September to get his Ph.D. in marketing. 
The Imparatos joined us for dinner at the 
Diamond Harbor Inn, and the ladies both 
wanted to know it they'll have to wait a 
year for a return visit. This will be the 
last issue you'll receive before the USC 
game on Oct. 23; so we'll look forward to 
seeing you that evening at 1955 Trent Way 
— Tel. 291-3051. Let's hear from the rest of you with some real news or you'll have to keep putting up with my corn. 
Mike Henn 1955 Trent Way South Bend, Ind. 46614 
Grail Schools 
ENGLISH 

Sister ANNE KREMENIK M.A.'60, who was Sister Loyola when at ND, is now mother superior of the Vincentian Sisters of Charity, 8200 McHigh Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Dr. Robert Slabey 
Department of English 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW 

Dean Shaffer's textbook, "Handbook for Planning and Drafting Wills and Trusts," will be published by Foundation Press on its spring 1972 list. Tom is also writing the first chapter in the new Indiana Trust Manual, a practice text on the new Indiana Trust Code. The Indiana Continuing Legal Education Fund is publishing the new book and Dean Tom will be a panelist on two of its institutes. Tom is also a member of the commission which drafted the Code. 
Dean Shaffer has also been appointed to the faculty for the National Trust School at Northwestern University, which was held Aug. 19 through 21, and to the faculty for the Estate Planning Institute at the University of Miami to be held Jan. 2 through 7, 1972. Dean Shaffer has also authored the following recent Law Review articles: "Fifty Estates in Elkhart County res gestae 1969, 22 through 24"; "The Psychological Autopsy in Judicial Opinions under Section 2035," Loyola University of Los Angeles Law Review, Vol. 3, 1970; "Experience-based Teaching Methods in Legal Counseling," Cleveland State Law Review, Vol. 19, 1970 (with R. T. Grismer) 
Professor Jack Broderick (the Chief) was co-director of the 19th Annual Union Management Conference held at St. 
Mary's College on July 11. The conference 
was attended by approximately 500 repre­
sentatives of management and unions and 
was sponsored by the Department of 
Economics and the Law School. Second-year 
law students Dennis Curran, Jim Farrell, 
Ed Farrell, Marilyn Maledon, Dick 
Reinthaler, Mike Tighe and Ron Zadora 
assisted Professor Broderick in conducting 
the conference. 
Professor Frank Beyta^ has written a 
book review of Professors Bickel's and 
Curland's recent books on the Warren 
Court which will be published this fall in 
the Vanderbilt Law Review. Professor 
Beytagh is also working as a consultant to 
the Administrative Conference of the 
United States regarding problems relating 
to judicial review in selective service 
cases. Frank will also be vice president of 
his ND undergraduate class of 1956 for 
the next five years. Professor Frank also 
demonstrated his continued prowess in golf 
by winning the Law School tournament 
for the second time in a row this past 
spring. 
Speaking of golf—Miss Carmen 
Piasecki, 73L, recently captured the 
South Bend Municipal Women's Golf 
Tournament crown as well as the Indiana 
Women's Golf Championship at Fort 
Wayne during the last month. 
Anticipated first-year enrollees still 
stands at approximately 157. A first-year 
three-day orientation program commenced 
Aug. 29. 
ROBERT M. GREENE '69L, has been 
recently appointed a trustee of Canisius 
College in Buffalo, N.Y. 
Leslie G. Foschio 
Notre Dame Law School 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
mSTORY 
You thousand of ecstatic readers of this column are once more reminded that your ex-classmates would like to hear from, or at least about, you. To assure the latter you need only to write to me. I received a long, interesting letter from RICHARD MEISTER. He taught for four years at Xavier after leaving ND and has been at the U. of Michigan at Flint for the past two years. Richard has a wife and three children now. He has been excepUonally busv at Flint doing research and writing as well as attempting to establish oral history and urban history projects. He delivered a paper at the 1969 convention of the Assn. for the Study of Negro Life & Histoiy, will give another at the Duquesne History Forum this fall, and is slated to comment on still another at the AHA convention next winter. In a few months Heath & Co. will publish "The Black Ghetto: Promised Land or Colony?" which Dick has edited for the Problems in American Civilization series. Congratulations on all counts! 
Sister MARY JEAN FRANCIS BOES 
S.N.D. who has been teaching at St Wendelin high school in Fostoria, Ohio, writes that she will soon leave the U.S. tn heiyin misiinnrirv work in N*'W Gumea. She would appreciate letters (Notre Dame Academy Kumdi. Mt. Hagen. P.O. Box 164, Western Highlands. Tenitorv of New Guinea). Brother RICHARD SITAR, back from research in Europe, will teach at Holy Cross Junior College in South Bend next year. In June I had a nice visit with Brother WILBERT LEVELING, formerly of St. Joseph High School in South Bend who is now teaching at Holy Cross High School, River Grove, III. RALPH WEBER of Marquette and vrife Rosemarie are the proud parents of a baby boy. their eighth child. Ralph now appeals on Zero Population Growth's "Ten Most Wanted" list JAMES O'NEILL, formerly of the N.D. Histoiy faculty, has resigned as director of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library at Hyde Park, N.Y., to take a posi­
tion in the National Archives in Washing­JOSEPH C. STROOT, principal of Notre ton. REV. JUAN FLOREZ, O.F.M. Cap., Dame High School in Niles, 111., and past an Air Force chaplain for the past two president of the association; Sister AMATA years, is back from Vietnam and is CANNON, H.M., of Central Catholic currently stationed at Fort Leonard Wood, High School in Canton, Ohio; Brother Mo. JOSEPH CERNICK of SL Joseph High 
Rev. THOMAS E. BLANTZ, C.S.C, has School in South Bend; and GILBERT won the Solon J. Buck Award for the Ijest CIPRIANO of LaSalle High School in 
article to appear in 1970 in Minnesota South Bend. One of the major addresses at History. The article was entitled "Fr. Haas the conference, a most interesting account 
and the Minneapolis Teachers' Strike of of a particularly complex Indian massacre, 1934." Despite his multiple duties as Uni­was given by PHILIP GLEASON. versity Archivist and vice president for SPORTS SECTION — When the summer student affairs Fr. Blantz still finds time Softball league began play History pros­to offer a course in the History De­pects did not appear bright Gone from partment our sensational, undefeated, pennant-
Each year at the History Teachers Con­winning spring squad was the peerless glove ference (held this year July 10) I have an man JOHN HIGHBARGER and such opportunity to renew acquaintances with muscular sluggers as EDWARD GRODE, many friends and alumni from years pasL CARL SCHOTT, and LESLIE RUD-This year the conference was attended by NYANZSKY. However, we formed an 
Sister ANNELLA GARLAND, O.P., of SL entente cordiale with the progressive wing Clement Hi ^ School in Centerline, Micli. of Sociology and offered asylum to worthy Sr. Annella is current president of the displaced persons from both the ND and 
History Teachers Assn. Also on hand were St Mary's campuses. This athletic popular ROBERT CLEMENTS of Central High front masterfully directed by skipper School in South Bend, the current secre­RICHARD ELMORE (the Leo Durocher 
tary-treasurer for the association; Rev. of Cartier Field), proved semi-irresistible on 
ACTIVITIES AT THE ND ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER 
Saturday, September 25,1971 Closed Circuit, color telecast of the Notre Dame-Purdue Foot­ball Game, Starting Time at 1:30 PM. Tickets, $4.00 for the Lower Arena and $2.00 for the Bleachers. Mail ticket applica­tions to Notre Dame Closed Circuit TV, Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. State the number of tickets and the price desired. Make check payable to Notre Dame Closed Circuit TV. 
Friday, October 1, 1971 Cleveland Cavaliers vs Chicago Bulls Pro Basketball, 8:30 PM. This game will feature Austin Carr, the Number-1 Pro draft pick, playing for the Cavaliers. Tickets $4.00, $3.00 and $2.00. Mail ticket applications to Bulls-Cavaliers Game, Athletic and Convocation Center. State the number of tickets and price desired. Make check payable to Bulls-Cavaliers Game. 
Saturday, October 2,1971 Concert by the "Beach Boys," 8:30 PM. 
Saturday, Oct. 16, 1971 Poco Concert, 8:30 PM. 

Saturday, October 23,1971 Johnny Cash, in person, 8:30 PM. 
Saturday, October 30,1971 Benefit Show for Multiple Sclerosis featuring Chet Atkins, Boots Randolph, Floyd Cramer and other headline entertainers to be announced at a later date. 8:30 PM. 
Saturday, November 13, 1971 Concert by the "Fifth Dimension," 8:30 PM. 
FOOTBALL BUFFET Following the Notre Dame home football games, the Monogram Room at the Athletic and Convocation Center will be open to the public, serving an elegant buffet dinner. Bar service and soft drinks will also be available. 
offense and intrepid on defense. We slaugh­tered 8 opponents, and were edged out by only 2, a particularly fine record consid­ering that we were forced to begin the season under the sign of Cancer. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 
For a starter this time, here are some local department and college news items. Dr. Darwin I. Mead, Associate Professor of Physics, has been named assistant dean of the College of Science by Dr. Bernard Waldman, Dean of the College. You will recall that for a good many years Darwin has been introducing our freshman physics intents to the mysteries and beauties of physics. His work in this assignment has been outstanding, and he received the Thomas P. Madden award in 1968 for ex­cellence in teaching freshmen. He has also served in recent years as a counselor in the Freshman Year of Studies Program. An important part of his new duties will be the supervision of all of the undergraduate students in the College of Science. For­tunately for the department Darwin will continue to teach our freshman physics intents. 
The Department of Physics conducted two NSF-sponsored institutes during the 1971 Summer Session. One of these, under the direction of Dr. James T. Cushing, was for college teachers. The other, under the direction of your columnist was for high school teachers. The total enrollment in the two institutes was about 72 teachers. 
Next your columnist wishes to thank HANK. PRASK. for a nice long letter containing news about CHARLEY DICK, TED MADEY, FRANK SCHIMA and SAM TREVINO. Hank and Sam are still affiliated with Picatinny Arsenal, but are now carrying out their lattice dynamics studies via neutron scattering with the NBS Reactor. Hank reports that the unofficial Notre Dame Club referred to in an earlier column is really a "Gourmet Club," the club members being Charley and Vivian Dick, Ted and Jane Madey, Frank and Joanne Schima, Sam and Julie Trevino, and Hank and Judy Prask. Membership re­quirements (for the husbands) appear to be an ND Ph.D. degree in physics and em­ployment at NBS. The club sounds like a great organization, and this informaU'on should be very useful to all of you grads when you make your next trip to the D.C. area. 'To assist you, here are some further important items of information. 
Hank and Judy Prask live at 18901 Bluewillow Lane, Gaithersburg, Md. 20760. (See column for June-1971 issue for further information on Hank.) 
CHARLES E. DICK '63 (nuclear physics), wife Vivian, and (as of April 1968) two children, Timothy and Victoria, live at 14000 Manorvale Rd., Rockville, Md. 20853. Charlie's NBS address is National Bureau of Standards, C215-Bldg. 245, Washington, D.C. 20234. His occupa­tional specialties and interests are accelerator technology, electron scatter­ing, and X-ray production. 
THEODORE E. MADEY '63 (physical electronics) is with the Surface Chemistry Section of NBS,, and FRANCIS J. SCHIMA '64 (nuclear spectroscopy) is with the Radioactivity Section of NBS. Since neither Ted nor Frank has yet checked in, I am unable to provide you with home addresses and other vital information. 
The editor says that's all. 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

ATLANTA 
By now most of us have learned of the tragedy which befell the family of PAUL 
F. LOMBARDl '60 on July 20, when Paul's wife, Janet, and his two children, David and Lisa, were killed in an automobile accident. All the members of the ND Club of Atlanta join together in expressing to Paul our sympathy and prayers. 
At the request of the club, five Masses will be offered at the Monastery of the Holy Ghost in Conyers, Ga., for Janet, David and Lisa. 
Janet was a graduate of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame. The St. Mary's Alumnae Club asked that as many ND alumni as possible attend a Mass for Janet, David and Lisa at Our Lady of Assumption Church on July 29. 
William M. Rich '64 
BOSTON 
The trip to Miami is scheduled for the weekend of Oct. 8-11. The Garden City Travel Service is in charge of mailing applications and organizing the program. So we would appreciate it if our members would react and make a decision soon. 
The freshman sendoff took place Sept. 1 at the Naval Officers Club, Boston, under the chairmanship of ART MURPHY '59. All area freshmen from Notre Dame and St. Mary's were invited. 
JACK KARLE '56 is organizing the September sports night at the McKeon Post, Dorchester, Mass., where last year's football highlights will be shown along with the Cotton Bowl game. 
David A. Fay '60 
CINCINNATI 
The Cincinnati Club held its annual golf outing at Hyde Park Country Club July 28. BOB McCAFFERTY '43 took low gross honors, while Howard Rohan captured low net honors. Judge Raymond Shannon was guest speaker following a buffet dinner. A special thanks goes to PAUL NIKLAS '59 who did a fine job planning this successful event. 
The annual freshman picnic was set for August 9, under the capable leadership of PAUL KELLEY '54 and TOM HOCK '69 at Mt. Airy Forest to welcome all incoming freshmen and to give them some insight to ND. 
Tim Schilling '69 
COLUMBUS & CENTRAL OHIO 
The first order of business is to announce 
the appointment of TOM GERLACHER 
'64 as our new president for the remainder of the '71-72 year. Tom was appointed by the board of directors and officers to fill out the term of ERNIE KLETZLY '57 who is leaving our area. Many thanks to Ernie for his able leadership, and good luck in his new job. For Tom, congratulations and good luck. 
On July 30, the club convened at Scioto Downs race track to try its Irish luck againt the trotters. DON ROTHERMICH 
ANGEL—While this man may not look much like your idea of an angel, the San Diego ND Club has given him their Guardian Angel Award. He's James L. Kinnane '57, regional development director for the University of Notre Dame. Jim was cited at the annual UNO Night dinner for his encouragement and advice to club organizers. 
'63 and Gerlacher are to be congratulated 
for a fine evening. A tip for next 
year's track meeting: follow Rothenra'ch. 
Don tried to clean out the track betting 
on No. 4 and almost succeeded! Now we know why he organizes this affair. 
Next up — the "almost" annual picm'c. Reports on bruises next issue. 
Bob O'Shaughnessy '66 
PALLAS 

The club is proud of the special award presented to it by the directors of the Alumni Association for its "Excellence in preparation for participation in Cotton Bowl activities the last two years." Although many club members helped with the work necessary for these two events, there were a few men (and their wives) who had to carry the burden of respon­sibility to see that the job got done right.These men and their wives are: Kay and ED FLEMMING '63; Katie and JOHN RONAN '56; Marilyn and LARRY BEDFORD '57; Ann and CHICK MARTIN '59; Pat and JOE BRASSARD '53; BOB WILLIAMS '59; and Evonne and HUGH BRAY '54. The club would also like to extend a sincere "thank you" to all committee chairmen and other hard workers for their time and efforts. 
The home of Larry Bedford, president, was the scene of a meeting July 25 between ND and SMC club officers to discuss the eventual merger of the two local organizations. St. Mary's was represented by Mrs. Jeannette F. Lynch (wife of MICHAEL LYNCH '63), Miss Gladys Smith, and Mrs. Mary Hlen Malone (wife of BERNARD P. MALONE '63L). In addition to Larry, the following members were also present: Joe Brassard, Chick Martin, John Ronan, JOHN BRADLEY '64, and JERRY BRADLEY '64. The consensus of opinion at the meeting was that there are many aspects of the coming union of the clubs that will be beneficial to both groups. Currently all concerned are waiting for additional guidelines from University officials. 
Jerome J. Bradley '64 
DETROIT 
Perfect weather on June 16 set the stage for Detroit's annual golf outing. Through the generous sponsorship of ERNEST GARGARO '33, the club was able to tee off at one of Michigan's finest courses, the Detroit Golf Club. The 125 Alumni and guests who spent the afternoon golfing were joined by 35 more alumni for dinner to hear Football Coaches Tom Pagna and Paul Shoults talk on this year's Fighting Irish. This very successful program was chaired by RAY BONANNO '63 with the assistance of ERNEST GARGARO JR. '69, JOHN DESMOND '67, DENNY STEROSKY '62 and SEAN SCHAEFFNER '62. RICHARD WHITING '45 won the trophy for the best round of the day with a 76 on the north course. 
Gary W. Dillon '65 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
One hundred and twenty-five members, their wives and friends gathered on May 14 for dinner and dancing at the Shorehaven Country Club in Norwalk, Conn., to celebrate UND Night. ROY JANN '48 was in charge of the excellent arrangement ably assisted by BOB DEVINE '36. JIM POWERS '52 was 
M.C. for the happy occasion. 
The highUght of the evening was honoring DENNIS J. P. O'NEIL '51 as ND Man of the Year for the Fairfield Cojmty Club. Denny was a previous president of the club and a former president of the Cleveland Alumni Club. 
New officers named for the year are PETER M. HEARDEN '37, president; ROBERT SINGEWALD '64, vice presi­dent; WILLIAM S. VALUS '55, secretary; and JEROME WHALEN '64, treasurer. Outgoing President G. SARSFIELD FORD '55 is chairman of the club board of directors. 
The club is anxious to see manv younger alumni in the area more active. Bob Singewald '64, vice president, and Tom Siff will head up the membership committee for the year. 
William S. Valus '55 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
The ND Club of Fort Lauderdale has kicked off the new season with big plans for many activities. The first of these was the Freshman Sendoff Dinner August 31 at the Governors Club, Fort Lauderdale, where the class of 75 from Broward County area was honored. 
The next and the biggest since ND beat Texas will be the Miami game Oct. 9 in the Orange Bowl. There was a terrific response to the first mailing for tickets and plans are under way to provide bus transportation to and from the game. A gala cocktail party with evening meal is being planned before the game with the buses leaving after all are in the victory spirit. 
Election of officers took place in August with the following assuming the duties for the comin? year: JOHN B. KENNA '62, president; JON KRUPNICK '65. vice president; RICHARD STRITTER '64, secretary; PAUL A. GORE '65, treasurer. 
Richard T. Stritter '64 
MICHIGAN CITY—Robert W. Lake '57, Publishers Continental Sales Corp., 2601 
E. Michigan Blvd., Michigan City, Ind. 46360 

OInb DircGtori 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Daniel W. O'Brien 
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien Jr. '51, 2133 Vestridge Dr., Birmingham, Ala. 35216 ALASKA John S. Hellenthal '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska 99501 ARIZONA PHOENIX—Chuck Pilon, 5711 N. 12th Place, Phoenix, Ariz. 85014 TUCSON—David C. Goodfellow '56, 1609 
S. Avenida Sirio, Tucson, Ariz. 85710 ARKANSAS FORT SMITH—James A. Gilker '48, 3015 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 72901 
LITTLE ROCK—A. J. Wrape Jr. '47, In­dustrial Lumber Co., 2200 E. 7th SL, Little Rock, Ark. 72202 
CALIFORNIA 
BAKERSFIELD—Robert J. Anspach '58, 6512 Desmond Ct., Bakersfield, Calif. 93308 
CENTRAL—Andre P. Provost '49, 643 W. Roberts, Fresno, Calif. 93704 
LOS ANGELES—Benjamin B. Salvaty '62, 2945 Monterey Rd., San Marino, Calif. 91108 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA—James F. O'Donoghue Jr. '58, ADT Fox Plaza 1118, San Francisco, Calif. 94102 
ORANGE COUNTY—H. Newell SUckler '64, 1125 Essex Lane, Newport Beach, Calif. 92660 
SACRAMENTO — John V. Stroud '65, Courthouse, Temescal and Sierra, Fair Oaks, Calif. 95628 
SAN DIEGO — Douglas A. Gimber '60, 4353 Sierra Vista, San Diego, CaUf. 92103 SAN JOSE—Douglas Zilliox '60, 1213 Ra­
venscourt, San Jose, Calif. 95128 COLORADO 
COLORADO SPRINGS—Michael D. Cil­etti '62, 923 Hoome Ave., Colorado Springs, Colo. 80904 
DENVER—Lorren D. Griffin Jr. '63, 6918 
S. Madison Way, Littleton, Colo. 80120 
CONNECTICUT 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY — Floyd F. Richards '42, 312 Brimfield Rd., Wethers­field, Conn. 06109 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY—Peter M. Hearden '37, 360 Cognewaugh Road, Cos Cob, Conn. 06807 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY — Thomas K. Hubbard '56, Box 84 South St, Litchfield, Conn. 06759 
NEW HAVEN—James J. Pino '59, 38 Meadowbrook Road, West Haven, Conn. 06516 
DELAWARE 
James E. Vachris '55, Franklin Fibre-Lami­tex Corp., 903 East 13th St., Wilming­ton, Del. 19899 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Joseph P. Clancy '53, 5913 Welbom Drive, Washington, D.C. 20016 
FLORIDA CENTRAL—Norman E. Duke '33, 1340 Oxford Rd., Maitland, Fla. 32751 
FORT LAUDERDALE—John B. Keena '62, 7480 N.W. 10 Court, Plantation, Fla. 33314 

GREATER MIAMI—Denis P. Tumock '57, 15305 Palmetto Lake Dr., Miami, Fla. 33157 
NORTH FLORIDA—Thomas M. Baumer '61, 4831 Gadsden Court, Jacksonville, Fla. 32207 
PALM BEACH COUNTY — Samuel F. Budnyk '55, 737 Pelican Way, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33403 
PENSACOLA—William L. Soule Jr. '61, 
P.O.
 Box 1550, Pensacola, Fla. 32502 WEST COAST—Frank T. Callahan '50, 

P.O.
 Box 18304, Tampa, Fla. 33609 


GEORGIA ATLANTA—WiUiam M. Rich '64, 6895 Heathfield Dr., N.W., AUanta, Ga. 30328 
HAWAn Walter K. Cabral '55, 965 N. Kalaheo Ave., Kailua, Hawaii 96734 
IDAHO 

IDAHO — Francis H. Hicks '49, 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho 83647 
IDAHO FALLS—James M. Brady '29, Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 
ILLINOIS 

AURORA—Edward J. Duffy '62, Guy Vin­cent Prisco Architect, 302 S. Lake SL, Aurora, lU. 60506 
CENTRAL ILLINOIS—Albert O. Eck Jr. '58, Old Jacksonville Rd., Springfield, 111. 62701 
CHICAGO—Charles V. Falkenberg Jr. '52, 10 South LaSalle St, Suite 104O, Chi­cago, 111. 60603 
DECATUR—Patrick C. Nolan '63, 13 East Drive, Elms, Decatur, 111. 62526 
EASTERN ILLINOIS—Maurice F. Stauder '41, 26 Lake Shore Dr.. Danville, 111. 61832 
FOX VALLEY—George R. Schmidt '29, 620 Summit St, Elgin, 111. 60120 
JOLIET—John R. Minzing '48, Suite 402 Joliel BIdg., 4 East Clinton St, JoUet, 111. 60431 
LAKE COUNTY—Stephen W. Bolander '59, 741 Hawthorne Dr., Libcrtyville, 111. 60048 
McHENRY COUNTY—John T. Corrigan '35, 321 Warwick, Crystal Lake, 111. 60014 PEORIA—John R. Pusey '65, 305-314 Se­curity Savings BIdg., Peoria, 111. 61602 QUAD CITIES—Peter C. Fieweger '56, 2330 20th Ave., Rock Island, 111. 61201 ROCKFORD—Frank J. Moran '58, 182S 
Camp Ave., Rockford, 111. 61103 ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Heniy S. Dixon '56, 121 East First St., Dixon, ni. 61021 
INDIANA 

CALUMET—James C. Brooke '65, 1716 Whittier Park Dr., Valparaiso, Ind. 46383 EASTERN INDIANA—Donald T. Dietz '61, 1104 Shellbark, Muncie, Ind. 47304 ELKHART—James E. Hayes '49. 1715 E. 
Jackson Blvd., Elkhart, Ind. 46S14 FORT WAYNE—Philip M. aemens '53, 1835 Pemberton, F t Wayne, Ind. 46805 
INDIANAPOLIS—Francis B. Quinn '42, 5715 N. Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Ind. 46220 
'58, 52790 Brooktrails, South Bend, Ind. 46637 
TERRE HAUTE—Dennis T. Penny '61, 1030 Monterey Ave., Terre Haute, Ind. 47803 
TRI-STATE—Joseph A. Ream '58, Colonial Manor Apts., Newburgh, Ind. 47630 IOWA 
BURLINGTON—John F. O'Neill '52, 711 Momingside Drive, Burlington, Iowa 52601 
DES MOINES—James T. Munro '57, 2905 37th, Des Moines, Iowa 50310 
DUBUQUE—Henry J. Trenkle '24, 180 South Booth St, Dubuque, Iowa 52001 QUAD CITIES—Peter C. Fieweger '56, 
2330 20th Ave., Rock Island, III. 61201 KANSAS EASTERN KANSAS—T. Henry Devlin '49, 
2203 College, Topeka, Kan. 66611 SALINA—John E. Carlin "28, Cariin Ranch, Mentor, Kan. 67465 WICHITA—Lawrence A. Tholen '60, 340 
South Broadway, Wichita, Kan. 67202 KENTUCKY Don J. Moser '56, 64 North Hill Rd., New 
Albany, Ind. 47150 LOUISIANA NEW ORLEANS—F. Joseph DroUa Jr. '63, 
P.O.
 Box 51112, New Orieans, La. 70150 NORTHERN LOUISIANA—Dr. Edward 

R.
 Morgan '44, 803 Jordan St, Shreve­port. La. 71101 MAINE Joseph D. Doyle '42, 103 Blackmere Street, Auburn, Me. 04210 MARYLAND BALTIMORE—Donn B. Duffy '55, 4304 Norwood Rd., Baltimore, Md, 21218 MASSACHUSETTS 


BERKSHIRE COUNTY—Dr. Bernard G. Auge '47, 17 Kittredge Rd., PittsReld, Mass. 01201 
BOSTON—William J. Pietrusiak '58, 33 Cypress St, Medfield, Mass. 02052 PIONEER VALLEY—William A. Huriey '28, 33 Elm St, Springfield, Mass. 01103 
MICHIGAN 
BATTLE CREEK—Raymond R. Allen MO, 497 East Hamilton Lane, Battle Creek, Mich. 49015 
BLUE WATER DISTRICT-^Wniiam-= L. • Wilson '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave:,' ^PbrV; Huron, Mich. 48060 ' '° 
DEARBORN —WilUam H. DeCrick '53, 1976 Prestwick Rd., Detroit, Mich. 48236 
DETROIT—Edward A. Bracken Jr. '35, GMC Room 11-229, GMC BIdg., 3044 W, Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 48202 
FLINT—James M. Rhadigan '59, 917 Outer Dr., Fenton, Mich. 48430 GOGEBIC RANGE—Eugene R. Zinn '40, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. 49938 
GRAND RAPIDS AND WESTERN MICH­IGAN—John D. Tully '61, 900 Old Kent BIdg., Grand Rapids, Mich. 49503 
JACKSON—James A. LeFere '61, 3002 W. Morrell, Jackson, Mich. 49203 
KALAMAZOO—PaiU F. Coash '56, 1366 Bunker Hill, Kalamazoo, Mich. 94001 LANSING—Frank J. Sierawski '48, 8623 
Camellia Dr., Rt 2, Lansing, Mich. 48917 MONROE—Mark S. Laboe '64, 1409 Maple Blvd., Monroe, Mich. 48161 
MUSKEGON—Stanley R. Tyler Jr. '58, 3869 Monteview Dr., Muskegon, Mich. 49441 

SAGINAW VALLEY—Dr. Harry B. Mc­Gee '44, 101 W. John SL, Bay City, Mich. 48706 
TOP OF MICHIGAN—Edward L. Moloney '17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 49721 
MINNESOTA TWIN CITIES—Leonard A. Mrachek '60; 5000 Duggan Plaza, Edina, Minn. 55435 MISSISSIPPI Thomas M. Elzen '63, 1375 Kimwood Dr., Jackson, Mississippi 39211 MISSOURI 
KANSAS CITY—John Lawrence Daw '52, 912 Baltimore Ave., Kansas City, Mo. 64015 
ST. LOUIS—Paul J. Gund '63, 6403 Maple Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 63130 MONTANA MONTANA—Robert T. O'Leary '54, 2806 Floral Blvd., Butte, MonL 59701 
BILLINGS—Thomas L. Doran Jr. '47,1810 Westwood Dr., Billings, Mont 59102 NEBRASKA LINCOLN—George Easley '61, 3144 South 
35th SL, Lincoln, Neb. 68506 
OMAHA AND COUNCIL BLUFFS — James J. Bemis '63, 412 Farm Credit Bldg., Omaha, Neb. 68102 
NEVADA 

NORTHERN NEVADA—Michael Monte­latici '61, 910 Pyramid Way, Sparks, Nev. 89431 
NEW JERSEY 

CENTRAL—David H. Gibbons '64, Cran­ford Motor Lodge, 10 Jackson Dr., Cran­ford, N.J. 07016 
JERSEY SHORE—Charles J. Keller '54, 416 Crescent Parkway, Sea Girt, N.J. 08750 
NEW JERSEY—Philip F. Sheridan '46, 106 Kensington Terr., Passaic, N.J. 07055 NEW MEXICO David H. Kelsey '59, 4208 Constance Place, 
N.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87109 
NEW YORK BUFFALO—Patrick Ryan '67, 237 Lover­ing Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216 CENTRAL —Joseph V. Barry '59, 210 Craddock SL, Syracuse, N.Y. 13207 GOLDEN CIRCLE—James F. McVay '42, 49" Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 16701 
MIDrHUPS'ON VALLEY — Connor F. Hau'gh '57, 55 Marion Ave., Poughkeep­sie, N.Y." 12'663 
'SibHAWk ;VALLEY—M. Michael Phil­• jlii)^''58i 57 College, Clinton, N.Y. 13323 -;NEW' YORK CITY—Gerald F. Saegert '40, 
il l Park Avenue, ApL 7C, New York, N.Y. 10028 NORTHEASTERN NEW YORK—Walter 
J. Rudge '60, 1 Hidden Valley Lane, Jonesville, N.Y. 12098 ROCHESTER—Robert J. Dewey '54, 291 Hurstboume Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14609 SOUTHERN TIER—Frank F. O'Brien '34, 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, N.Y. 14900 
TRIPLE CITIES—Robert M. Cannon '47, South Hampton Rd., Binghamton, N.Y. 13903 
NORTH CAROLINA Charies L. Grace '57, 2546 Cloister Drive, Chariotte, N.C. 28211 
NORTH DAKOTA William Daner '53, 1013 E. Highland Acres Rd., Bismarck, N.D. 58501 
OHIO AKRON—James A. Burkhardt '65, 383 Greenwood Ave., Akron, Ohio 44320 CANTON—Franklin W. Smith '62, 1208 
48th St., N.W., Canton, CHiio 44709 
CINCINNATI—J. Howard Sundennan '63, 1115 Salisbury Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226 
CLEVELAND—Fred W. Friend 'SO, 232 Superior Ave., N.E., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
COLUMBUS—Thomas L. Geriacher '64, 1738 Dorsetshire Rd., Columbus, Ohio 43229 
DAYTON—John D. O'Brien '66, 227 Wilt­shire Blvd., Dayton, Ohio 45419 
HAMILTON—Jerome A. Ryan '41, 353 South "D" SL, Hamilton, Ohio 45013 MANSFIELE>—Hugh B. O'Donnell '57, 3 
North Main Street, Mansfield, Ohio 44902 
NORTHWESTERN—James J. Brunner '64, 1896 Yoakam Rd., Lima, Ohio 45806 SANDUSKY—Richard C. Hohler '47, 2603 Eastwood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio 44879 TIFFIN—Fred J. Wagner 79, 152 Syca­
more SL, Tiffin, Ohio 44883 TOLEDO—William E. Thees '57, 2830 Al­gonquin, Toledo, Ohio 43606 
YOUNGSTOWN—Robert N. Dineen '55, 1106 Union National Bank Bldg., Youngs­town, Ohio 44503 
OKLAHOMA 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Walter A.NashertJr. '54, P.O. Box 53531, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73105 
TULSA—John A. Charon '48, 9114 East 37th Ct, Tulsa, Okla. 74145 OREGON 
J. Michael White '61, 2818 N.E. 31st St, Portland, Ore. 97212 
PENNSYLVANIA CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA—Dr. George 
W. Katter '41, U.S. Bank Bldg., Johns­town, Pa. 15901 ERIE—Leo J. Brugger Jr. '61, 622 Con­necticut Dr., Erie, Pa. 16S05 HARRISBURG—Joseph J. Ellam '58, 4106 Hillsdale Rd., Harrisburg, Pa. 17112 
LEHIGH VALLEY—David L. McShane '58, 2860 Meadowbrook Circle, South, Allentown, Pa. 18103 
MONONGAHELA VALLEY—no president 
PHILADELPHIA—Thomas J. Shallow '63, Fitzpatrick Container Co., Shurs Lane & Pechin SL, Philadelphia, Pa. 19128 
PITTSBURGH—William G. Gompers '48, 2348 Hidden Timber Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15241 
SCRANTON—Thomas G. Gallagher '59, 1505 Jefferson Ave., Scranton, Pa. 18509 
WILKES-BARRE—Michael J. Gorham '60, 19 Susquehanna Ave., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18702 
WILLIAMSPORT—Joseph F. Orso Jr. '55, 1630 Taylor Place, Williamsport Pa. 17701 
RHODE ISLAND and SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Michael A. Monti Jr. '59, 4 Windward Dr., 
Barrington, R.I. 02806 SOUTH CAROLINA Julian D. Michel '43, 26 Broad SL, Charles­ton, S.C. 29401 
TF1VNE1SSFE 

CHATTANOOGA—Robert J. Shockey '61, 509 Cherry SL, Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402 MEMPHIS—Charies D. Schaffier '63, 666 
S. McLean, Memphis, Tenn. 38104 
NASHVILLE—Dr. Nich F. Varallo '63, 1908 Hayes SL, Nashville, Tenn. 37203 
TEXAS DALLAS—Larry Bedford '57, 8741 Ald­wicfc, Dallas, Tex. 75238 EL PASO—Gus P. Momsen Jr. '49, 3727 Montana, EI Paso, Tex. 79930 HOUSTON—Peter G. Doyle '63, 3821 Pip­ing Rock Lane, Houston, Tex. 77027 
SAN ANTONIO—William V. Dielmannin '67, 443 Beverly Dr., San Antonio, Tex. 78228 
UTAH 

James C. Weeks '57, 3716 Millcrest Rd., Salt Lake Ci^, Utah 84109 
VIRGINIA 

M. James Wallace '61, 1708 HavenwoOd Dr., Richmond, Va. 23233 
WASHINGTON 

SPOKANE—Jerome F. Nevin '67, East 1728 38th Ave., Spokane, Wash. 99203 WESTERN—James A. Lyons '54, 15805 
S.E. 43rd Place, Bellevue, Wash. 98004 
WEST VIRGINIA WEST VIRGINIA—Cyril M. Reich '39,903 
S. Drew St. St Albans, W. Va. 25177 CENTRAL—Joseph F. Aucremanne '51, 
P.O. Box 1360, Oarksburg, W. Va. 26301 OHIO VALLEY—WflUam J. Buch '59, 42 Lynwood Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. 26003 
WISCONSIN 

GREEN BAY-FOX VALLEY—Thomas P. Brogan '48, 3241 Bitters Ct, Green Bay, Wis. 54301 
LaCROSSE—David F. Hyde '40, 230 South 20th SL, Lacrosse, Wis. 54601 
MILWAUKEE—PhiUp F. Vogel '58, Room 1200, 111 East Wisconsin Ave., Milwau­kee, Wis. 53202 
NORTHWEST WISCONSIN—Ben M. Siri­anni Jr. '60, 2719 Keith St, Eau Claire, Wis. 54701 
SOUTH CENTRAL—Peter J. Ahrens '49, 741 Oneida Place, Madison, Wis. 53711 
WYOMING Patrick H. Meenan '49, P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 82601 FOREIGN CLUBS BRAZIL—Thomas E. CarroU '58, 14210 
Alamanda Ave., Miami Lakes, Fla. 33012 CANADA—no president CHILE—Michael E. Curtin '61, Industrias 
"COIA" SJi., Casilla 6-D, Vina del Mar, 
Chile, South America 
COLOMBIA—J. Ramon de la Torre '57, Calle 78, No. 8-02, Bogota, Colombia, South America 
ECUADOR—Temistocles Teran '49, Apar­tado 179, Quito, Ecuador 
ENGLAND—Donald C. Lueck '50, 3 Cado­gan Gardens, London S.W. 3, England MANILA—Lawrence J. Gotuaco '54, P.O. 
Box 1152, Manila, Philippines MEXICO CITY—Manuel J. Villazon '56, Juarez 190, TIalpan, DJ. , Mexico 
NICARAGUA—Juan B. Sacasa '65, Apar­tado No. 672, Managua, Nicaragua, Cen­tral America 
NORTHERN EUROPEAN—no president PAKISTAN—Rev. Frank J. Burton, C.S.C. 
•33, P.O. Box 5, Notre Dame College, Dacca -2-, Pakistan PANAMA—Lorenzo Romagosa '45, P.O. Box 8307, Panama, Panama PERU—Enrique Lulli '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru, S.A. 
PUERTO RICO—Gflberto M. Marxuach '61, P.O. Box 10047, Caparra Heights Sta­tion. Puerto Rico 00922 ROME—Vincent G. McAloon '34 (secre­tary), Palazzo Brancacdo, Largo Bran­caccio, 82, Rome, Italy 
SAN SALVADOR—G. Rolando Duarte F., '47, 71 Av. Norte 222, San Salvador, El Salvador, Central America 
TOKYO—Rev. Peter T. Moriawaki, SJ., '65, Sophia University, 7, Kiocho, Chiyo­dak, Tokyo, Japan 
VENEZUELA—Mervyn J. Gorman Jr. "39, Apartado 1651, Caracas, Venezuela, South America 
INDIAJVAPOLIS 
The second event of the club year was the golf outing held al the Country Club of Indianapolis on July 22 with guests Wally Moore, ND assistant football coach and Dick DiBiaso, ND assistant basketball coach. Wally delivered a talk, Knute Rockne-style, about the upcoming football season. He said the current rumor is 11-0 in '71 for ND. Dick discussed the new basketball coaching team at ND and said that recruitment is well under way. Dick asked for help in recruiting in the Indianapolis area. Other guests included ND Golf Coach FATHER CLARENCE 
R. DURBIN CSC, former Rector FATHER CHARLES M. CAREY CSC and former Purdue Ticket Manager JOE DIEN­HART '26. The activities of the entire day including the smorgasbord in the evem'ng was run very smoothly by the chairman of the event, LEO BARNHORST '49. The long drive of the day on the 8th hole was a 305-yarder by JAY HARMON '70, whereas the closest drive off the 6th tee was JIM O'HARA '51, a distance of four feet to the hole. BOB BOWERS '60 was the club member with the low gross, a 76, and, as a result, won the three main trophies of the tournament in addition to a gift certificate. Steve Mayhew, a guest, tied with Bob for the low gross. Third, with a 77, was L«o Bamhorst with 4th and 5th spots being awarded to Howard Bamhorst and BILL FOX, respectively. The bent shaft award went to JOHN QUINN '30. The winner of the low net handicap for a club member was AL OBERGFELL '49 who won the Fighting Irish wall clock. 
The club Friday football luncheons are being held again this year at the Murat Shrine Club at 510 N. New Jersey. The luncheons start at 11:45 and are over by 
1:15. The luncheons are being held on Sept 17, Sept. 24, Oct. 1, Oct. 22 and Nov. 12. Excellent speakers have been lined up for the luncheons and, hopefully, we will have a taped phone conversation with Ara at every luncheon. The luncheon is a good way to wind up the week and prepare for the Saturday game as well as conduct transactions for game tickets. Ticket transactions may also be conducted through F. QUINN via his office or home phone. 
Club dues may be forwarded to the Club office at 5715 N. Pennsylvania. In addition, you might invite one or two of your friends to become associate members in the club. Many people would love to join our club if asked. 
Jack V. Moriarty '63 
KENTUCKY 
August was marked by two wonderful happenings. On Aug. 3 our annual outing was held at Midland Trail Golf Club. Although it was a rainy day, the golfers were not held back and scores were fairly good. The dinner was tremendous as usual and plenty of beer was drunk. What really marked this outing was the fact that for the first time the Club did not go in the red. Special thanks for this go to our chairman, LEO REHERMAN, who was assisted by two shapely young ladies. 
The second happening was the arrival of a new baby girl (Erin Burke Casper) at my house on Aug. 5. 
Aug. 14 was the Orphans' Picnic. Our thanks to Chairman JOHN BRENZEL and Student Club President Tim Lawson for making this a successful outing. Thanks also to the many people who helped man the booth. 
Remember Oct. 16 is our next general business meeting. DON MOSER assures me this will be more of an old-timers' film festival than formal meeting. He has arranged to have films of all the great ND 

teams of the past to be continually shown 
at this meeting. So set this date aside 
now. More details will be coming later. 
Coming events and chairmen: Business 
Meeting, OcL 6, Don Moser; Mass-Banquet, 
Dec. 8, TOM HELRINGER; Woman 
of the Year Award, Dec. 8, JOE 
DONALDSON; Notre Dame-Kentucky 
Basketball Game, Dec. 28, and Business 
Meeting, Jan. 18, Don Moser. 

Your officers and board of directors held 
a freshman sendoff meeting Aug. 25 at the 
Howard Johnson's Inn on Shelbyville 
Road. Student President Tim Lawson 
gave a brief resume of life at ND and the 
officers and directors answered all questions. 
Mike Casper '64 
LANSING 

Approximately sixty club members and 
guests attended the annual summer potluck 
picnic at the home of Dr. JERRY CORDES. 
This function has become the club's most 
successful annual social function, thanks 
mostly to the gracious hospitality of Jerry 
and Rosa Cordes. 

BRUCE PAPESH was project chairman 
for the annual fall drawing of tickets to 
the Michigan State game. Proceeds from the 
event are partly used to underwrite the 
club's CLEMENT E. MC FARLANE 
scholarship fund at the University. 
Bill Dotterweich '58 
MAINE 

The ND Alumni Association of Maine held its formal annual meeting at the home of JOSEPH D. DOYLE '42 Aug. 17. Among those attending were ANTHONY SILVA '56, Joseph D. Doyle, EUGENE G. GEIGER '71, RAY GEIGER '32, 
J. PAUL SCULLY *41, JESS DeLOIS '42, NORMAND LAURENDEAU '66. It happened to be a rather bad evening and a number had to beg off at the last minute. 
The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: JOHN B. BELIVEAU '59, who in addition to being one of our leading legal beagles is the Androscoggin County district attorney, was elected president. Vice president elected was VINCENT ALLEN '65, who is currently with Sylvania Corporation in North Windham, Maine. Reelected to the treasurer's spot was DANA DEVOE '59, and reelected secretary was your correspondent RAY GEIGER '32. 
It was decided to have several meetings at various homes to listen in on games and for the camaraderie such meetings engender. Apropos of our scholarship fund, it was decided to allot $250 to each of three boys who are now attending the University—^Joseph DeLois, Richard McLoy and Kevin Muse. Our little scholarship fund has been able to assist nine boys in the last 12 years and very gratifyingly we report all the outstanding monies up to the most recent graduates have been repaid at no interest. We are quite pleased that our little club in Maine is able to sustain a very active scholarship program. 
Plans are being made to have a dance to which both alumni and students will be invited around the Christmas holidays and further word on this will be announced shortly. 
Ray Geiger '32 
McHENRY COUNTY 

The ND Club of McHenry County honored LEO J. POWERS "25, past president, as its ND Man of the Year at the annual Universal ND Night dinner on June 24, in Crystal Lake, HI. 
The club also elected two new directors 
and a new slate of officers for the coming 
year. Elected as officers were JOHN 
CORRIGAN '35, Crystal Lake, as presi­
dent; CLAIR LAMBERT '43, Crystal 
Lake, as vice president; and MIKE 
UNGVARSKY '65, as secretary-treasurer. 
Elected as directors were WALTER 
TURNER '51 and Ungvarsky. 
Coach GEORGE KELLY, ND assistant 
football coach, delivered a fine speech. 
Powers, a resident of Crystal Lake, 111., 
and a graduate of the ND Law School, 
was honored for his many outstanding 
contributions as past president of the ND 
Club of McHenry County. 
Ungvarsky, chairman for the dinner, was 
assisted by JOHN NORSO '50, JOHN 
CORRIGAN, DON FREUND '55 and 
JOE CONERTY '44. 
Michael A. Ungvarsky '65 
MlCmGAN CITY-LA PORTE 
The ND Club of Michigan City and La Porte held its annual Irish Greens Golf Outing on July 26 at the Long Beach Country Club. The club had hoped to have FRANK LEAHY attend, but since he was recuper­aUng, his son, FRANK LEAHY JR. filled in. The outing itself was a huge success and with 38 members and guests playing golf and 50 enjoying the evening program. The highlight of the dinner was the "Fighting Irish Coffee" served afterwards. Honored guests for the outing were Dean of Students Father JAMES RIEHLE CSC and Coach Tom Pagna. They entertained all the members and also brought with them the '71 Cotton Bowl film. ROBERT McBRlDE former coach under Frank Leahy, was the toastmaster and distinguished members of the club in attendance included Mayor CONRAD KOMINIAREK. Michigan City has always been a spirited ND town and this was once again proved by the generous donations of the local industries which greatly contributed to the success of the outing. 
The Club has prospered under the administration of President ROBERT LAKE and the "Irish Greens '71" was just one of the many events planned for the members. 
Jim (Skip) Strzelecki '68 
NEW HAVEN 
The University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Greater New Haven has recently reorganized with the election of a new slate of officers and plans for varied activities during the coming year. 
First activity for the group will be a "Freshman Send-Off" pool party honoring eight area students who will be leaving to enter ND as members of the Class of 1975. This event, for the second consecu­tive year at the Pellegrino residence, 4481 Whitney Avenue, Hamden, was scheduled for Aug. 27. Alumni, undergraduates, wives, parents and friends were all invited to attend. 
Other events have been scheduled as follows: Oct. 2—a smoker highlighted by the live telecast of the ND-Michican State football game; Dec. 5—Communion Breakfast; Jan. 15—Dance; April 29— Universal ND Night Dinner. Times and places will be set soon for these events and club members will be notified via mail. 
New officers include the following: President, JAMES PINO '59, 38 Meadow-brook Road, West Haven; vice president, JACK DOLAN '59, 39 Pleasant Drive, Cheshire; secretary, WALTER MARUT 
•49, 454 Oak Avenue. Cheshire; treasurer. Attorney JOSEPH PELLEGRINO '58, 23 Marion Drive, North Haven; and parents' representative, WILLIAM HARTI­GAN, Crestwood Road, Bethany. 

Any Notre Dame alumnus living in the area who may have either recently moved here or who is not on the current mailing list is urged to contact one of the above men to make membership ar­rangements. 
Walter Marut '49 
PEORIA 
The ND Club of Peoria met the merger of ND and St. Mary's head on by having its first "non-stag" meeting on July 15. Not only were women invited, but they were encouraged to come, and were greeted enthusiastically. To start the evening off in a typical ND fashion, we saw the football highlights of 1970, after which JOHN MACHECA, regional director for ND filled us all in on changes to come with the new ND-SMC relationship. The highlight of the evening came with the election of new officers. JOHN R. PUSEY '65, was chosen president; JACK REVORD '58, vice president; DOUGLAS J. CASSIDY '67, treasurer. And for the first time the club decided to add a feminine touch by naming MARY LOU (Mrs. Michael F. '67) HARTLEY SMC '69 as secretary. Many thanks to outgoing president, JERRY HIGGINS '56, and the other officers for a job well done! 
Mary Lou Hartley SMC '69 
PITTSBURGH 
We had a full house for the meeting on May 27 at the Rosa-Villa restaurant on the North Side to see the 1971 Cotton Bowl films. It was great to see a rerun of that outstanding Irish victory. Present at the meeting was one of the stars of the show, Jim Bulger '73. Also shown was the excellent NBC "First Tuesday" television show on ND. Particularly grati­fying in the large turnout was the wide distribution in the attendance with many alumni of recent years in the group. 
The results of the yearly elections were announced that nieht. The new officers are: BILL GOMPERS '48, president; NEIL SEAMAN '59, vice president; PETE SHEPTAK '59, treasurer: and JOHN RYAN '65, secretary. GEORGE FARRELL '53, DAN DILLON '48. MIKE CONNOR '63 and '66, JIM SMITH '53; and BILL DADDIO '69, were elected to the executive board, joining MIKE JOYCE '64, JOHN MASTRAN­GELO '47. FRITZ WILSON SR. '28 and JOE GASPERELLA '50. Completing a successful term of office were JIM SMITH '53. president; Gompers, vice president; Dillon, treasurer; and Seaman, secretary. 
John T. Ryan III '65 
ROME 
As per the previous issue, we deem it useful to repeat our "historic" Roman announce­ment: The ND Hospitality Center, for the past 11 years, located at 82 Largo Brancaccio, will move to the following address in collaboration with Gus Rossi's "Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant" which will move and enlarge at 13 Via Parigi, rear of Grand Hotel. The ND rendezvous will occupy a lounge on a mezzanine level with direct access to Gus's bar and dining facilities. The move will be effected sometime, hopefully, in the late fall. In the nonce, ND will continue to host at the present "Scoglio" address: 256 Via Merulana, near St. Mary Major Basilica. Telephone us at: 734.619. 
In our excitement in making the fore­going announcement last issue, we neglected to report our joy in helping to host the ND Glee Club which gave an excellent 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Henry S. Dixon '56, at left, president of the Rock River Valley ND Club, Dixon, III., presents a Man of the Year award to Robert Cahill '34 at the club's UND Night, held July 15. Bob, ND business manager of athletics, was the honored guest 
at the dinner along wth his wife, Mary. 
concert in Rome in early June at the American parish here, Santa Susanna. We have the entire concert on tape and will proceed to send it to the Glee Club's archives as historical evidence on the Club's very first Roman concert. Added first: It was the first time in Roman history and in the ancient history of the Church of Santa Susanna that "McNamara's Band" was sung lustily from the sanctuary! 
Vince McAloon '34 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
President DAN O'BRIEN, at the last Board meeting, discussed unification between St. Mary's and ND. He is working closely with Martha Michaud, president of the St. Mary's Club. 
Mrs. Dianne Killilea, wife of BILL KILLILEA '60, is the new permanent recording secretary of the club 
DENNY TROESTER '57 is the chairman of the 1971 football banquet. This year's varsity team will be honored on Dec. 2 at the A. & C.C. 
Dues notices for the year will soon be mailed by treasurer NORM COOK '57. All area alumni are asked to respond immediately. 
In September, the conU'nuing education seminar on abortion, "Who Shall Live and Who Decides?" wilt be provided for the club. 
Brian C. Regan '61 
SAN DIEGO 
Our club has been selected by the directors 
of the Alumni Association as winners of the "Outstanding Club" award for effective organization and involvement in community activities. San Diego was cited for "outstanding and sustained efforts 
which produced • effective club organization, 
efficient club administration and diverse club programming." The award aptly indicates the level of effort and dedication expended by our 1970-71 club officers, TIM HINCHEY '61, DICK HESSLING '49, TONY MALONEY '43, DOUG GIMBER '61 and BRUCE LANCASTER '54—well done. In addition the club has been advanced to class "B" category (200-750 members) due to an increase of alumni in San Diego. The new president, Doug Gimber, has his work cut out for him. 
The second event of the new year was a family beach party held on Silver Strand beach south of Coronado. It was well attended and most enjoyable, thanks to the energies and planning of MlKE CAREN '61. 
Committee chairmen are completing plans for this year's activities and solicit your participation. RUBEN CARRIEDO '65, schools committee, continues his work with local secondary schools. TOM HENNESSY '67, student affairs, will be working to assist San Diego students currently attending ND. BOB LONERGAN '43, athletic recruiting, will be searching for outstanding high school athletes for Moose Krause to consider. Volunteers? 
Congratulations to JOHN L'ESTRANGE '64 who recently passed his bar exam and will be entering private practice in San Diego. 
William W. Walsh Jr. '62 
SPOKANE 
Assistant Football Coach BRIAN BOULAC and new students Tom Laney and Frank Tombari were guests of the club at an indoor steak fry on July 10. Brian showed the Cotton Bowl Highlights film and discussed the behind-the-scenes activity which was required to overcome the effect of the Southern California game on the team members and make them the Cotton Bowl winners. DICK ST. JOHN '56 was in charge of arrangements for the affair which was well attended. 
Joe Walsh '14 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
The new, integrated ND-SMC had its effect on the club's monthly luncheon in July. JIM COONEY '59, MIKE JORDAN '68 
and TIM HUGHES '61, from the Alumni Office, were joined by Diane Davis, assistant director of the alumni for SL Mary's, to answer the members' questions about the merger. In attendance were approximately 25 Notre Damers and eight St. Mary's graduates. Included was Mrs. Thomas Campbell, the Washington area president of the SL Mary's Alumni Club. The luncheon arrangements were ably handled by RAY RAEDY '62, who achieved a coup in allowing women into the previously all-male Touchdown Club. 
The club's successful community action program continued during July with the club serving as host for an activity day, held in the Washington, D.C, Park View Recreation Center, an inner-city park. Chairman BOB BROWN '56 was aided by HARRY DUTKO '54, GAR ISSACO '66, BOB WHITMORE '70, and the club's chaplain. Father JOHN FORD CSC. The members assisted in judging athletic events and the distribution of refreshments. 
Plans are now being made for the club's trip to South Bend for the Northwestern game. We will travel by charter jet to South Bend Friday night and stay at the Holiday Inn. Former Washington area "TSidents are encouraged to join us tnere to renew old acquaintances. 
New members are encouraged to contact the club by writing the ND Club of Washington, D.C, 5454 Wisconsin Ave., Suite 750, Chevy Chase, Md. 20015. 
Patrick F. Kane '60 
•cGoril 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Betty Revitte to WILLIAM F. BURG '57. Miss Charlotte A. Schrader to ROBERT T. BARLETTA '68. Miss Lynn Hughes Williams to GREGORY A. WOOD '70. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Marjorie Ann MoUoy and GEORGE HANSEN '51, June 12. Miss Maty Lucille Mack and JOSEPH A. MARINO '59, July 27. Miss Ann Gerard and MICHAEL F. WIEDL III '60, June 26. Miss Deborah Uene Luce and NICHOLAS M. ARACIC '66, July 3. Miss Mary C Shiel (SMC '70) and STEPHEN F. JOHN '69, in June. Miss Sue Bracco (SMC '70) and GARY GLEASON '70 in June. Miss Linda Sue Brown and F. RONALD MASTRIANI "70, July 31. 

Miss Bemadette Volpe and ROBERT L. MITSCH '70, June 5. Miss Ruth Dennis (SMC '70) and WILLIAM H. SORRELL '70, July 3. 
ADOPTIONS 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL B. BERETZ '60, a daughter, Michele Elaine, March 19. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. GALLO '52, a daughter, Adrianne Frances, June 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD KRALL '60, twin sons, Jeffrey Alan and Christopher Michael, Aug. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. M. CHARLES NACKLEY JR. '60, a daughter, Tara Nina, July 17. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL D. McADAMS '62, a son, Michael Spencer, Aug. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL D. CASPER 
'64, a daughter, Erin Burke Casper, Aug. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEREMY LANE '65, a son, Jeremy Jr., June 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE F. BOYNTON '68, a daughter, Jennifer. (Also grand­daughter of LYNDSAY R. de MANBEY •44.) 
Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP J. MIKA '68, a son, Robert William, June 18. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R. CALLAHAN '69, a son. Christian James, Aug. 19. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN COUGHLIN '70, a son, Michael, April 19. 
SYMPATHY 
JOHN F. O'DONNELL "24 on the death of his brother, WILLIAM J. O'DONNELL '21, in June. 
LOUIS C CHAPLEAU '30 and RICHARD J. CHAPLEAU '34 on the death of their father, Louis A. Chapleau, Aug. 8, and their mother on Sept. 6. 
CLAUDE W. TOUREK '35 on the death of his father, James J. Tourek, July 31. JUSTIN O'TOOLE '36 on the death of his wife, Jeanette, June 30. 
JAMES N. MOTSCHALL '39 on the death of his mother, Mrs. Genevieve Motschall, May 18, and of his father-in-law, George Treis, June 26. 
JOHN W. SCHINDLER JR. '43 on the death of his father, JOHN W. SCHINDLER SR. '09L, April 27. 
JAMES CASE '51, on the death of his father, CHARLES C CASE '25, May 26. MARK STOREN JR. '57 on the death of his mother, July 14. JOHN F. CHRISTENSEN JR. '59 and Sister HELEN CHRISTENSEN R.S.M., 
M.S.
 '62 on the death of their father, John 

F.
 Christensen Sr., in July. Dr. JAMES CROSSIN '60 on the death of his father, Edward Crossin, in June. DENNIS J. GAYDOS '60 on the death of his father, John L. Gaydos, June 24. 


PAUL F. LOMBARDI '60 on the death of his wife, Janet, and two children, David and Lisa, July 20. 
CLIFFORD N. ANGERS JR. '63 on the death of his father, Clifford N. Angers Sr. 
GARY B. GHIGLIOTTI '68 on the death of his father, EDWARD E. '44, June 28. 
DEATHS 
ARTHUR T. SIMPSON '01, May 7. He is survived by his family at 3500 Fairmont St., Dallas, Tex. 75219. 
REV. RICHARD J. COLLENTINE CSC '09, Jan. 16. Holy Cross House, Notre Dame. 
JOHN W. SCHINDLER SR., '09L. April 
27. He is survived by his widow at 810 Lincoln Way E., Mishawaka, Ind., 46544 and by a son JOHN W. JR., '43. 
FRANK O. BARTEL '15, May 7. He is survived by his family at 610 Rutledge St., Spartanburg, S.C 29302. 
ALFRED F. FRIES '16, July 22. He is survived by his widow, Hilda, 169 W. Sixth St., Peru, Ind. 46970, two daughters, six grandchildren and four great-grand­children. 
LOUIS H. HELLERT '18L. He is survived by his widow, Ethel, 3705 N. Linwood Ave., Davenport, Iowa 52806. 
Dr. HERBERT ELBEL FORSTER '20, July 26. He is survived by his widow, Nelle, 914 Garden Lane, South Bend, Ind. 46619. 
JOSEPH R. BRANDY '21, July 20. He is survived by his widow, Mary Elizabeth, 522 E. State St., Ogdensburg, N.Y. 13669; a son. Dr. Joseph R. Brandy Jr.; a daughter, Mrs. Raymond Williams, a sister and eight grandchildren. 
WILLIAM J. O'DONNELL "21, in June. He is survived by a brother. JOHN F. '24, 2211 S.W. Park PI., Portland, Ore. 97205. 
EDWARD T. TIGHE '24, July 5. He is survived by his family at 79 Evergreen Rd., Riverhead, L.I., New York. 
CHARLES C CASE '25, May 26. He is survived by his widow, Beatrice, 1575 Perry St., Denver, Colo.; two sons, JAMES '51 and Edward; a daughter, Margaret; seven grandchildren and a sister. 
THOMAS F. HARTNETT '25, April 
20. He is survived by his widow, Mary Louise, 4225 Rustic Ave., Paducah, Ky. 42001. 
RALPH L. NOLAN '28, Aug. 10. He is survived by his widow at 1241 N. Crest Dr., Joplin, Mo. 64801 and two children. 
CHARLES C RILEY '28, July 19. He is survived by his widow, 5247 N. Park Ave., Indianapolis, Ind., five sons and a daughter. 
CLIFF TROMBLEY '28, July 25 in Detroit. MYRON C HERSHFIELD '31, May 
25. He is survived by his family at 
Goshen, Ind. C FREDERICK PILLIARD '32, March 
9. He is survived by his widow, Marion, Queen of All Saints Park Apts., 1810-B, Michigan City, Ind. 46360. 
FRANCIS A. MURPHY '33. He is survived by his widow, Beatrice. 900 Somerset Ave., Windber. Pa. 15963. 
ROBERT E. WILKIE '37, July 12. He is survived by his widow, Viola, at 3 Brittany Lane. Larchmont, N.Y. 10538, and two dauchters. 
BRO. REGINALD JUSZCZAK CSC '38, librarian at Holy Cross College, Notre Dame, Aug. 22. He is survived by two brothers, Matthew of Hammond, Ind. and Albert of Whitine, Ind. 
MOST REV. RUSSELL J. McVINNEY, Bishop of Providence, R.L '39, Aug. 10. He is survived by a sister, Mary L. McVinney. of Providence. 
DANIEL F. DUGGAN '42, June 19. He is survived bv his widow, Rita, 23 Mallorca Way, San Francisco, Calif. 94123. 
Dr. RICHARD T. MATLAVISH '42. in Jiilv. He is survived bv his widow, Patricia, 333 N. Washington St., DuQuoin, III. 62832, and four daughters, including Mary Kathleen, SMC senior. 
RICHARD B. POHL '43, Nov. 14. He is survived by his family at 1421 Woodstock Dr., Dayton, Ohio 45419. 
EDWARD E. GHIGLIOTTI '44, June 
28. He is survived by his widow, Lorraine, 1381 Richmond Dr.. Staten Island, N.Y. 10304: and a son. GARY '68. 
PATRICK TRIXLER '48. May 21. He is survived by his family at 827 Poplar St., Huntin'!ton. Ind. 46750. 
Dr. THOMAS A. CLINCH M.A. '51, May 20. He is survived bv his widow at 518 Dearborn St., Helena, Mont. 59601, and nine children. 
THEODORE B. BELECZ '60. March 21. He is survived by his widow, Vireinia. and children, at 1395 Creek Dr. 4C, Muskegon, Mich. 49441. 
Sister M. BENEDICTA O'CONNOR OSU M.A. '60, in November, 1970. 

Glib HnmniK 
by Michael Jordan, Assistant Director, ND Alumni Association 
This column is my inaugural report printed in the magazine. In the future i will endeavor to highlight interesting and unusual Club activities which are undertaken by so many of our Notre Dame Clubs. Keep reading my news chronicle and sooner or later you are bound to read about your own Club. In order to make sure that I know what your Club may be doing, double check to see that the alumni office is included on the Club mailing list. 
In customary style, the temp of Club activity is picking up as the school year gets underway on the campus. More Notre Dame Clubs than ever before contributed to the Freshman Send-Off Program that has been developing strength over the last five years. The start of the football season augurs well for a full schedule of Club activity focused on (you guessed it) the Notre Dame football team. 
The various smokers and sports nights which are planned are too nu­merous to mention. There are several Clubs which plan football trips to both home and away football games. Miami, over the weekend of Oct. 8, seems to be a particularly popular destination for the Clubs along the Eastern Seaboard and in the South­east part of the country. Television parties are in the planning stages as well in many Club areas in anticipa­tion of a tremendous gridiron battle between Notre Dame and L.S.U. on Nov. 20, a game being televised nationally from Baton Rouge. 
Probably the most unusual occur­rence to come about this fall will be the appearance of the 35-member Notre Dame freshman football team in Mexico City in a game against the varsity team of the University of Mexico. The Notre Dame Club of Mexico has worked quite hard on this project, and it is scheduled to take place on Oct. 23. The Club managed to secure a sponsor to pay for the expenses of the team (transportation, accommodations, and meals), to con­tract the largest stadium in Mexico (Estadio Azteca — 105,000 seating 
capacity) as the site on which the to create a scholarship fiind for the game will be played, and to arrange support of Mexican students enrolled for national television coverage of the in a course of study at Notre Dame. game in Mexico. The fund will be administered by the 
Profits from the game will be used Club itself. 
CALUMET—Six priests from the Calumet, Ind. area now on the faculty at Notre Dame were honored as 'WD Men of the Year" at the Club's annual UND Night observance in Highland, Ind. Pictured from left to right are: Rev. Ralph Dunn CSC; Rev. Patrick Moloney CSC; James Brocke, club president; Rev. Jerome Boyle CSC; Rev. Thomas McDonagh CSC; Rev. Robert Austgen CSC; and Rev. Anthony Molnar, Club chaplain. 
CHICAGO—Comedian Cohen (second from right) receives the ND Club of Chicago's "Decency in Entertainment Award." From left to right are: Thomas W. McNamera '53 and Robert E. Lee '53, co-chairmen of the UND Night dinner; Patrick J. Monlroy '53, former Chicago Club president; Cohen; and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC. The dinner was attended by 1000 people in Chicago's McCormick Place. 
Old-limeps' Gaine 
ND LaCrosse Club alumni will do 
battle with present club members on 
Oct. 23 at Cartier Field after the ND-
Southern Cal football game. 
An estimated 25 graduates and for­
mer club members will return, accord­
ing to Jack Tate '66, founder of the 
club. It is the second year for a 
student-alumni game. The students 
downed the old-timers 7-4 last year. 
Although La Crosse is officially a 
spring sport, the club will hold two 
matches this fall with the U. of Michi­
gan. The games will be held in Ann 
Arbor on Oct. 10 and at ND on 
Oct. 17. The team had a 6-4 record 
last year. 
The ND La Crosse club was found­ed in 1963 and it is estimated that there are about 200 alumni who par­ticipated in the sport while under­graduates here. 
REPRINTS of the South Bend Tribune front page ptiblished on October 19, 1924, are available free of charge upon request from the Alumni Office. On this page is the main portion of the now famous article 
written by Grantlaiul Rice, recounting the upset victory of the ND team led by the Four Horsemen over Army. If you would like to receive a reprint, simply write a brief note to the Alumni Office, Administration Building. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
^ ^ Sillf Sonll) fifnd gribunr. [artmi 
NOTRE DAM~E~BESTSlRP 
mSS Lawrence Suneys Indiana Politicsiggg 
llhiBni 
Ash 
BOXERS AND DJ'S 
Your article "Look What They've Done to My Gym, Ma" (Aug. 1971) omitted reference to one of the old fieldhouse's first cultural uses: the student-operated radio station, WND, then WNDU and finally WSND. 
The station occupied quarters next to "Nappy's" boxers providing ad­venture for DJ's like myself. (Ever try to play a record with an enthusi­astic heavyweight skipping rope on the wooden floor next door?) In those days, virtually everything WNDU had —studios right through tech equip­ment—^was handmade by the mad genii in Engineering's EE department. It wasn't until later that the move was made to O'Shaughnessy's slickly pro­fessional quarters. — DAVID N . PFAFF '56, 685 Bow Line Dr., Naples, Fla. 33940. 
WHAT'S TO REMEMBER? 
The legendary "Notre Dame Man" supposedly has everything—including, it now seems, extraordinary longevity. 
How else account for your cover photos in the August ALUMNUS, which according to your signed state­ment were designed "to arouse mem­ories"? The "nostalgic" photos include one from "the late 1880's"; another from the "late 1800's." A third from 1917. And the fourth, 1896. Even assuming that among your readers are men who were in "dipes" back in that early Notre Dame history, those stirred to nostalgia today would have to range in age from about 70 to 95. Isn't this a rather narrow audience for a cover story? 
Perhaps I'm overly conscious of the age spread, having graduated myself some 41 years ago. But for the life of me even the latest of your photos —1917—doesn't ring a nostalgic bell. Whose memories, for heaven's sake, are you reviving? 

Ah, time, the arch-enemy, is so mischievous. You speak of "the good old days" in terms of Dean Pedtke. Now, that's more like it! Alas, I was gone more than a decade before this distinguished gentleman arrived on the scene. — JOHN W . GIBBONS '30, 1776 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. 
DOESN'T DIG IT 

On page 5 of the June issue. Bill Mitchell '71 expounds his views in which, inter alia, he: (1) Cites and quotes Daniel Berrigan as a respon­sible and reputable authority on the state of the nation and Notre Dame. Berrigan languishes in an American prison by reason of his conviction by the American judicial system of crim­inal violation of American laws. His crime was the senseless destruction of official draft records. His other quali­fications for American expertise are not readily discernible. 
(2)
 Condemns the blessing of our national flag at the Baccalaureate Mass because, in his view, the flag "stands now for the kind of power that remains unresponsive to the claims for survival and justice of so many citizens who are victims of the war, and of so many victims of a domestic policy of benign neglect," and is now nothing more than "the symbol of blind American National­ism." The alternative would seem to be the (criminal) burning of the flag at the altar. 

(3)
 Characterizes the prevailing American Nationalism as one which "respects the flag too much and people and justice too little." What people? The loyal and patriotic Notre Darners who honor the hallowed inscription "For God, Country and Notre Dame" and proudly serve our nation in war and peace? Or would it be that frantic fringe of reformers, protesters, de­filers, demonstrators and disrupters who bum draft cards and records and scream for civil disobedience, defy all laws except their own, and advocate such "civil rights" as free abortion, free love and free living—at govern­ment expense? 


Mr. Mitchell has the absolute and truly American right to have and es­pouse his views and opinions, and the ALUMNUS has equal rights to publish them. But you can be sure that they are diametrically opposed to those of the vast majority of our alumni. Otherwise we must view our diplomas as mere scraps of paper and ourselves as educational flop-outs. 
On behalf of some of the ancient members, let me welcome young Mr. Mitchell to membership in the Alumni Association. Let me console him with the assurance that the maturity which will flow from his contact with the realities and facts of life will ulti­mately reveal to him that our nation now makes available to all of its citizens the finest and best way of life in the history of mankind; that the problems and shortcomings which he now deplores are not new but have existed in lesser degree for decades; that great improvement and progress toward perfection have been accom­plished by his forbears; that he and his contemporaries cannot and will not achieve instant perfection, and most importantly, that his best hope for the achievement of his goals lies within the framework of our system of government and justice, and not in the futile aberrations of Berrigan and Associates. 
Let Mr. Mitchell shake down the thunder from the sky, but let him learn the futility of his thesis that "we need to find a new harmony, where our rituals celebrate what is true and do not bless what is not." Let him learn to look through and beyond rituals to the substance of our system of government and justice. Let him remember that the way to victory is to march in the traditions of such Notre Dame greats as Sorin, Corby, Cardinal O'Hara, the Cavanaughs, O'Donnells, Rockne, Manion and countless others whose patriotism is unimpeachable, who loved their country, revered her flag and labored incessantly and effectively within the system to improve the administration of justice and the benefactions of citizenship. In short, let Mr. Mitchell cease and desist from taking himself so damn seriously and arrogating to himself and his associates the role of saviour of civilization. We love you. Bill Mitchell, but we don't dig you! 
— JAMES P. SWIFT '24, 1807 Ross Ave., Dallas, Tex. 75221. 
SPEAK UP FOR FATHER TED 
It was with a great feeling of sorrow that I heard Father Hesburgh say on a TV interview (published in the August ALUMNUS) that he receives a bushel basket full of hate mail when­ever he takes a stand in support of the Civil Rights Act. 
Did we not learn that when a priest received the sacrament of Holy Orders, he received a gift from the Holy Spirit to help him in the awe­some responsibility that went with the priesthood? 
Certainly ND has not remained static since 1842, or we would stilt find the log chapel adequate, and the original building in use. Or let us consider how proud we are that Sorin Hall is the first residence hall on a college campus. Was this not risky, to remove boys from the easy sur­veillance of a dormitory? Could these youngsters be trusted in the solitude of a private room—two to a room? significant change were made at this I'm sure that Sorin Hall was built over time. 

IkffinWNeiiNI 
many objections. Those of us who support the merger 
by Richard W. Conklin, Director,
In my case, over 30 years have will not be bothered by any change 
Information Services
passed since those secure four years in the two Associations, but feel that 
in an insecure world. In retrospect, I would change none of it, but I am hardly proud of the football week­ends when we leaned out of the window to whistle at the strange sight of an attractive young lady from St. Mary's or a co-ed from the visiting state university. Is it not more whole­some that our students do not look on their female contemporaries as a sex symbol, but another human of the opposite sex who is undergoing the same experience of seeking an educa­tion, thereby hopefully finding truth? 
Any parent who is afraid to send his son to Notre Dame should stop questioning the motives of Father Hesburgh and ask himself the ques­tion "Why?" and then in all honesty not be shocked at the answer that there exists a generation gap because the parent is out of touch with reality. He is living in the past. 
Perhaps I have rambled too much, but, let us hear from the real Notre Dame men—let us find out if it is the silent minority or the silent majority. My feeling is that there is too much silent approval of what Father Ted is trying to do and most certainly has achieved. We have heard enough from those who write the hate mail. Now let us hear from those who really understand what our Church and our beloved Notre Dame tried to teach us. — JOHN J. GRIFFW, JR. '39, 10 
S. Brentwood Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63105. 
ASSOCIATIONS AND MERGER 
The merger of ND and SMC is prob­ably one of the best decisions both schools have made in recent years. The present and future students of both institutions will benefit from the combined use of facilities, faculty and staff. 
When considering possible changes in the two Alumni/Alumnae Associa­tions one must recognize not only the vast age span, but also the various attitudes and the variety of reactions. The disadvantages we see in an im­mediate complete merger of the two Associations prompt us to recommend that they continue to operate as sepa­rate, but coordinated organizations. Our limited contacts with alumni/ alumnae of different ages indicate that there will be some alienation and rejection and probably further polari­zation of the different attitudes if a better contact with all alumni/alum­nae will be maintained if drastic changes are deferred for the present. 
Regardless of this heterogeneity we believe the main concern of all of us today must be the well-being and betterment of both schools. With this in mind we wish to encourage every­one involved to meet and solve each problem (and we know there will be many) as it arises with an openness of mind, and a thought for the future, rather than a nostalgia for the past. Let us all seek guidance from God and Our Lady of Notre Dame and St. Mary's for the mutual benefit of all alumni/alumnae and the present and future students. — Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. SANFORD '40, 947 Oak-creek Drive, Dayton, Ohio 45429. 
ND-LSU FOOTBALL WEEKEND 
Friday, Nov. 19 
Pep Rally Cocktail Party 
6:30 p.m. — Royal Sonesta 
Hotel 



Saturday, Nov. 20 
Bus Transportation to Baton Rouge for the Game 
Notre Dame Club of 
New Orleans 

Post Office Box 51112 

New Orleans, La. 70150 
THE N.D. CLUB OF MIAMI Invites you to The official N.D. "Blow out" at 8 p.m., Friday, Oct. 8 at the Deauville Hotel, 67th at Collins Ave., Miami Beach. Admission $1 per person with tickets sold at door. Cash bars. 
Buses available from Deauville Hotel to game and back. 
Football fans who eat a lot of hot dogs have reason to be happy, but few professors do. 
That's one way to indicate the extent to which the wage-price freeze of President Nixon affected the Uni­versity of Notre Dame—from the price of Stadium wieners, rolled back to 35 cents from a contemplated nickel increase, to the wages of most University teachers and researchers, frozen until the middle of November. 
Administrators, most of whom work on a 12-month basis without a con­tract, and hourly rated University employees were safe because their raises are effective at the start of the new fiscal year July 1. But virtually all of the 750-member faculty came under the ruling because their con­tract period does not begin until Sept. 1, despite the fact that they had signed contracts the previous spring. Four other categories were exempt from the freeze—those promoted in rank or entering or discontinuing an administrative appointment; those newly hired or appointed; those on 12-month contracts, and those whose salaries were reduced. 
Tuition increases, announced in early summer and for which payments had already been made by some, were allowed to stand by the government. There were no increases in room and board this year, so there was no problem to wrestle with there, but at last word the question of an increase in hockey ticket prices was one of many awaiting attention by the Uni­versity's general counsel, Philip J. Faccenda. Rent increases in Lewis Hall ($30 a year) and Brownson ($50) were cancelled. 
Students with jobs paid through the payroll department did not get their 10-cent hourly increase, but those who receive service credits toward tuition did receive increases because tuition remission is viewed as "financial aid" and not "wages." 
Even several weeks after the wage-price freeze, many questions remained unclarified by the Federal Govern­ment. One thing was clear, though, on campus. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, CSC, provost, promised faculty members that "every legal means" would be taken to try to pay them wages they contracted for, the Uni­versity budgeted for, but the govern­ment froze. 
4? 
Crosses SDd Coeds 
by James D. Cooney, Executive Di­rector, ND Alumni Assoc. 
Someone levelled the charge a while back that the crucifixes had been re­moved from ND classrooms. This prompted your ever-vigilant Alumni Office to make an excursion through O'Shaughnessy Hall recently. A room-by-room inspection (there's a fortune in doorknobs in that place) revealed that 70 per cent of the crucifixes are indeed intact. When quizzed about the missing lot, a maintenance man cited "wear and tear" as the villain. "They hang this audio-video junk all over," he said, "and things are bound to get knocked off the walls." A hall-wide inventory was scheduled shortly, we were assured, with appropriate re­placements planned. We must con­fess a certain sadness in learning the students hadn't been pilfering the items for private devotional purposes. Confident the campus was spared yet another godless conspiracy, we marched back to the Administration Building. The Library loomed on our left, with its cross-dominated mural of Christ, the saints and scholars of the ages .. . 132 feet high and 65 feet wide. 
* * * 
The 1971 football season, Ara's eighth, shapes up as one of the best ever. Alumni interested in urging the team on to bigger and better things a la Western Union should send wires in care of Ara Parseghian, Head 

Hinmni tpcafc 
Coach, Football Ofiice, Athletic & 
Convocation Center, Notre Dame, 
Ind. 46556. 

The ABC-TV documentary "The Wishbone Incident" appeared to have a heavy Texas flavor for some. Aside from their 30-game success which certainly earned the Longhoms the spotlight, there's the thought here that Ara's aversion to sideline mikes also contributed. The memory of a North-South Shrine game exhortation in living color lingers on. 
* * * 

Richard (Digger) Phelps (his dad did the digging and Dick got the handle), ND's new basketball coach, knew his first year on the job offered a set of challenges. Lest he misinter­pret their extent. Team Captain Doug Gemmell, one of only two returning lettermen, broke, his leg in two places this summer^ and will in all proba­bility be lost to the squad. Welcome to South Bend, Dick! 
In the same veini ND men and women everywhere owe the Digger's predecessor, John Dee, a hearty thanks. The ND basketball program today is top drawer. John's record was a cool 117-80, one.Nrr Tournament berth, four NCAA ventures, and Austin Carr. That's big-time basket­ball any way you look at it. And John Dee brought it to ND. The Dee family deserves every' blessing and success back home in Denver. ' • -;.-.. 
Perhaps a portent of the year yet unfolded is the new pocket basketball schedule. In contrast to the '70-71 version which featured the inimitable Carr in the act of a driving, twisting lay-up, this year's schedule presents cheerleader Terri Buck, the photo­genic symbol of ND's coed interests. Now entering her senior year, Terri's already captured more attention than most student bodies. 
* * * The student word is that unification presents some hidden advantages. ND students report that registration queues were much more amicable this September. Registration was a joint affair with the women of SMC. The Boards of Directors of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Alum­ni/Alumnae Associations will gather in late October to hash out the impli­cations of unification for the Associa­tions, the Clubs, the Classes, the magazines, etc. Individual opinion be­forehand is actively sought. Let's hear from you. A 16-city Alumni Club trek in late summer produced good Alumni re­action to unification, mostly in en­thusiastic form. With the faces of ND and SMC changing, nostalgia gave way to a complex kind of realism. As one alumnus put it: "I'm sorry the kids who will come to the new institution won't know the one I treasured, but I'm jealous as hell of every one of them!" And, as we enter this 129th aca­demic year at Notre Dame, Ind., it seems somehow right and proper that the University named for and dedi­cated to the Mother of God, has finally opened its doors to the daugh­ters of men. 

f 1971'T2 
* 1971 MIAMI 
BEACH FOOT­
BALL HOLIDAY 
OCTOBER 7-10,1971 ­
via Eastern Airlines Jet 
rhis tour includes three nights at the ixclusive DEAUVILLE HOTEL, on the icean, Miami Beach • Full-Course Break­asts and Dinners each day! • Special Velcome Party • Game Ticket and trans­lortation to game. 
'rice $239 per person, plus S26 taxes, rom Chicago, including air! 
> 1971 NEW ORLEANS FOOTBALL HOLIDAY 
NOVEMBER 18-21, 1971 ­
via Eastern Airlines Jet 
'hree nights accommodations at the jxurious ROYAL ORLEANS HOTEL, ight in the French Quarter! • Special arrival Party • An evening of fun at Pete ountain's! • Game Ticket and transpor­jtion to Baton Rouge for the L.S.U. 
Price $229 per person, plus $22 taxes from Chicago, including air! 
• 1972 "IRELAND ESCAPADE" 
APRIL 22-30. 1972 —vi a TWA Jet 
Tour includes seven wonderful nights in 
Ireland •Visits to famous Irish cities of 
DUBLIN, KILLARNEY, others! • Full 
Irish Breakfasts and lunch or dinner each 
day! • Medieval Castle Tour, Ban­.quet! •Superior Hotels, many extras! 
Price $329 per person, plus $26 taxes, services from New York, including air! 
All tours limited to Notre Dame Alumni and immediate families! 
<- Send to: 
Mr. James D. Cooney 
Executive Director University of Notre Dame Alumni Association 

I Notre Dame, Indiana 48556 
I Please send me complete information on I the following Alumni tours: 
I D1971 MIAMI BEACH I FOOTBALL HOLIDAY . I. a 1971 NEW ORLEANS 
I: FOOTBALL HOLIDAY I D1972 "IRELAND ESCAPADE" 
Name 
Address 
City 
State Zip 
j CLASS YEAR 
L ; 





