The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Honolulu alumni observed the 33rd anniversary of UND Night with a dinner featuring Bishop John J. Scanian as guest speaker. Ninety-seven Notre Dame alumni clubs, extending from coast to coast and overseas, have submitted reports of meetings held on this special occasion. 
1^ 

'56 Class Reunion Weekend Scheduled for June 8-9-10 
The 1956 Class Reunion Weekend is expected to set a new attendance record as advance i-eservations indicate another "sellout" on the Notre Dame campus, Jime 8, 9 and 10. Class din­ners on Friday night, the Alumni Ban­quet on Saturday evening and the an­nual golf tournament will highlight the weekend program. 
Members of the 1931 Class, back for their 25th anniversar)', will be guests of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, at a luncheon in the University dining halls on Saturday. Memorial Masses for deceased class members are being planned for Saturday morning in the hall chapels. 
Registration for all returning alumni will be in the Law Building.- In addi­tion to the events scheduled by the Alumni Office, there will also be 'in­formal sessions' of the Notre Dame Law Alunmi Association and the Monogram Club. Tours of the cam­pus, featuring new buildings erected in recent years, will be an interesting phase of tlie program. 

The classes of 1906, 1911, 1916 and 1921 will be quartered in Howard Hall. The '26 and '36 men are assigned to Morrissey, while the 1931 class will re­ceive rooms-with-a-lakeview in Lyons Hall. Alumni of 1941 and '51 are slated to be housed in Dillon Hall. The Class of '45 will use Badin Hall as their campus 'headquarters.' 
Father Hesburgh and Joseph I. O'Neill, '36, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, are the fea­tured speakers at the annual Alumni Banquet for all classes, held in the dining hall on Saturday night. The program wU close on Sunday morning with a Low Mass in Sacred Heart Church. 
Registrants will be charged $20 for tlie entire weekend covering rooms, banquet, class dinners, beverages, class cap insignia, prizes, box lunches and other miscellaneous items. 

Band Alumni Meeting 
Former band members attending the Class Reunion Weekend pro­gram are invited to be present at a special meeting in the Washington Hall band room on Saturday, June 9, 12:30 p.m. 

Reverend John £. Walsh, C.S.C., guest speaker at Annual Conununion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, receives a contribution to the University of Notre Dame for $1,500 from Club President Bill Murtagh (right). Jack Solon, Toledo Foundation Chairman, looks on (left). DR. O'GRADY 

PROF. O'GRADY DIES OF HEART ATTACK 
Dr. Daniel C. O'Grady, one of Notre 
Dame's most outstanding professors, 
faculty member since 1926, died sud­
denly on May 7. He was a specialist 
in psychology and systematics, taught 
in the Philosophy Department, and was 
the author of two college text boo^. 
Bom in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, Dr. O'Grady served in the United States Army in World War II as a clinical psychologist and personnel con­sultant, advancing from private to cap­tain. He had been a consultant for the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital South Bend, and for the Beatty ^'W morial Hospital in Westville, Ina From 1952 to 1954 Dr. O'Grady wa secretary-treasurer of the Indiana Psy chology Association. 
He received his bachelor's degree am doctorate at the University of Ottaw: while Catholic University of America \Vashington, D.C., awarded a mastp||: degree to him. In collaboration will tlie Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. Dr. O'Grady wrote a philosophical tex "Introduction to Metaphysics" whicl is used widely in many American col leges as well as institutions of highe learning in England. 
Dr. O'Grady is survived by '3S widow, Catherine Anne; his mothei Mrs. John O'Grady, of Ottawa; thrc brothers, Emmett and Joseph, of Ol tawa, and Rev. Frank O'Grady, sta tioned at a mission in Santo Domingo and a sister. Miss Agnes O'Grady, c Ottawa. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 

^Lectures Featured In Liturgical Series 
Three European scholars will lecture on liturgical subjects at Notre Dame June 15-July 31, according to an an­nouncement today by Rev. Michael A. ij^athis, C.S.C, director of the Univer­sity's summer Liturgy Program. 
They are: Rev. Louis Bouyer, Cath­olic Pontifical University of Paris, France; Miss Qhristine Mohrman, Catholic Pontifical University of NiJ­megen and Amsterdam University, The 
^Netherlands; and Rev. Ernst Gries­

•aber, Karlsruhe-Knielingen, Baden, Germany. 
Father Bouyer, who lectured at Notre Dame in 1952, is the author of Liturgical Piety, recently published by the University as the first in a series of Liturgical Studies. 

Miss Mohrman is acknowledged as 9a authority on Early Christian Latin, a field in which there are few experts. She collaborated with two French and Belgian scholars in the translation of The Ordinary of the Mass and is credited with several major contribu­tions concerning the history of the te.\ts and their meaning. 
A F a t h e r Grieshaber, a German pastor, will lecture .on "Liturgical Arts." When he formed a parish im­mediately after World War II, the only place his congregation could assemble was in a tavern. He gradually con­structed and decorated several parish buildings. 
The Department of Religion in 1947 Waugurated, under the direction of Father Mathis, an undergraduate Lit­ui^ical Program which was extended to the Graduate School in 1948. The purpose of the undergraduate program is to give the student a comprehensive view of the liturg)' and also to train him to participate in liturgical func-Sns , especially through the Gregorian Chant. The Graduate School Program takes two forms: research and non-research. Father Mathis graduated from Notre Dame in 1910 with a 

Baclielor  of  Laws  degree,  and  also  
studied  at  Holy  Cross  College  and  
jj|tholic University.  

This magazine is 'published bi-monthly, by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as sec­ond class matter Oct I, 1930, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 




Admiral Burke Speaks To Graduating Seniors 
Notre Dame's 111th Commencement June 1, 2and 3, will feature the award­ing of degrees to more than a thou­sand graduates and an address by Ad­miral Arleigh A. Burke, U.S.N., Chief of Naval Operations and member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, D.D., Bishop of Dallas-Fort \Vorth, will de­liver the sermon on Sunday morning at the Baccalaureate Mass celebrated by the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, apos­tolic administrator of the Fort Wayne, Ind., diocese. 
Class Day exercises, the awarding of prizes and the presentation of commis­sions to seniors in the R.O.T.C. and Marine units will follow the Class of 1956 private visit to Sacred Heart Church. The Notre Dame Band will formally start the weekend festivities on Friday evening with a concert in the Drill Hall. The University The­atre's musical, Finian's Rainbow, is scheduled for Saturday afternoon and again that night, in Washington Hall. 
Reception For Families 

Families of the graduates will attend a reception, given by the University administration, in the Student Center. Parents and other guests will have an opportunity to meet the faculty and to see the many interesting buildings on campus during the weekend. 
For the sports-minded visitors. Coach Jake Kline's baseball sluggers will tangle with the Great Lakes Naval Sta­tion, on the Cartier Field diamond, Saturday afternoon. 

Honorary Degrees 
The University of Notre Dame will award an honorary Science degree to Admiral Burke and an honorary Doc­tor of Laws degree to Bishop Gorman. Other prominent guests who will re­ceive honorary doctorates are: Hon. George M. Humphrey, Secretary of the Treasury; ^Valte^ Duncan, LaSalle, 111., N.D. alumnus, member of the As­sociate Board of Lay Trustees and well-known business man; William K. \Varren, Chairman of the Board, War­ren Petroleum Co., Tulsa, Okla., and member of the Universit/s Advisory Council of Commerce, whose son, Wil­liam K., Jr., is president of the 1956 Senior Class: Dr. Marston Morse, noted mathematician at the Insti­tute for Advanced Study, Princeton University; Frank M. Folsom, New York, N. Y., president of Radio Cor­poration of America and member of the University's Advisory Council of Sci­ence and Engineering; John A. Cole­man, New York City stock broker, member of the College of Commerce Advisory Council and former Chair­man of the New York Stock Echange, whose son is a member of the graduat­ing class; and Dr. Philip Mosely, New York, N. Y., expert on Russia and member of the Columbia University faculty. 

CENTRAL FLORIDA—Alumni Secretary Jim Anustrong was principal speaker at the club's UND Night meeting in Orlando. L. to R.: Pres. Roy Laughlin; Roy Kcefe, N.D. Foundation chairman; Fr. Jordan; and Armstrong. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 

Agenda for the Biennial Council of Local Alumni Club Presidents, June 6, 7,8,1956 
Wednesday Night, June 6 
Dinner, Mahogany Room, Morris Inn, followed by^showing of available films. 

Thurs'day, June 7 
8:00 a.m. Mass in Hall Chapel, followed by breakfast. University Cafeteria. 
9:30 a.m. Opening session, Monis Inn, President Joseph O'Neill, and Vice-President Bob Gore. 
10:00 a.m. What the Notre Dame Club Means—J. E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretar)'. 
10:30 a.m. Universal Notre Dame Night, 1957 (April 29)—Rev. T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
11:00 a.m. Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, 1956 (Dec. 9) — Pat Fisher, Rel. and Cit. 
11:30 a.m. The University Placement Program—^Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C. 
12:00 m. Luncheon—^Talk: The University—Rev. T. M. Hesburgh, CS.C. 
2:00p.m. Athletics—Panel on Several Problems, Athletic Director Ed Krause and Coaches. 
3:00 p.m. The Foundation Program—Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
4:00p.m. Undergraduate Relations—^James Ferstel. 
4:30p.m. Women's Au.xiliaries—Panel of Club Presidents of the Clubs having Auxiliaries. 
5:00 p.m. Sectional meetings for discussion of specific problems: (A) Met­ropolitan Clubs—where membership is increasingly suburban; 
(B) Centralized community clubs — membership essentially focused one area; (C) Geographical area — membership spread over state or several-city areas. 
6:00 p.m. Cocktail Hour. 
6:45 p.m. Dinner, followed by Publicity and Public Relations Panel • Messrs. Callahan, Haley and Murphy. 

Friday, June 8 
8:00 a.m. Mass in Hall Chapel followed by breakfast in University Cafeteria. 
9:30 a.m. A series of Short Subject Presentations, John Cackley and Se­lected Presidents: (A) Club Dues; (B) Including Parents; 
(C)
 Man-of-the-Year Awards; (D) Past Presidents; (E) Dis­cussion Groups of Lecture Series; (F) Incorporating the Club; 

(G)
 The ALUMNUS procedures; (H) Club Scholarships and Related Scholarship Opportunities; (I) The Rockne Anniver­sary (A Father and Son Potential); (J) Outstanding Club Programs of the 1954-56 Interim. 


An exhibit will be prepared of Mailing Pieces; Club Directories; Pub­licity Clippings; Membership Cards; Club Stationery; and a Notre Dame Bookstore Display of Banners, Pennants, Plaques. 
All of the agenda is to be featured by question and answer periods for better exchansre. 


DIPLOMAT TALKS ON FOREIGN AID 
Chester Bowles, former U. S. ambas­sador to India, gave a public lecture on "A New Diplomacy for Southern Asia" at Notre Dame on April 19. His ad­dress was one of a year-long series o^] "Diplomacy in a Changing World sponsored by Notre Dame's Committee on International Relations. Dr. Ste­phen Kertesz, head of the Committee and professor of political science at the University, introduced the speaker. 

Mr. Bowles pointed out that since most of tlie nations of Asia and Afria are no longer controlled by Europe, it is America's job to befriend these people and make them loyal allies. He feels that if they are to become loyal they must be politically stable, and this can only come about with economic security. If aid is used thoughtfully and intelligently in foreign countries, it wSj produce this political stability. 
He said that some shortcomings of| the foreign aid policy are "America's belief that money can buy loyal allies, and the tendency to give aid only tol those countries infested with commun­ists, thus slighting those who show proper gratefulness and appreciation Too often die aid is given in compew tion with Russia." 
Bowles is the author of Ambassador's Report, based on his diplomatic ser\'ice at New Delhi from 1951 to" 1953, and The New Dimensions of Peace whi'cli was published last October. He ha; travelled widely throughout Asia and the Middle East and lias observed M first hand the impact of Soviet polici?* on the people of those areas. 
Former Ambassador to India Chester Bowie (left) is greeted by Professor Stephen Ker tcsz on the occasion of a talk given by Mtj Bowles which was sponsored by Nolr| Dame's Committee on Interna­tional Relations. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
speaker at Aluitmi state conventions held in Connecticut and Florida. 



Universal Notre Dame Night 
Democratic National Chairman Paul 
M. Butler, '27, was guest speaker for' St. Louis alunmi. About 600 alumni 


Sets Participation Record 
and friends attended the Detroit club's 

Universal Notre Dame Night, in 
•^1956, established a new all-time par­ticipation record in local club annals as 97 alumni organizations have sub­mitted reports of meetings to campus headquarters. Another probable dozen "precincts" arc still to be heard from. 
From Miami to New Hampshire and -^from Hartford to Hawaii, clubs all 
^along the'*way celebrated this great event. The tremendous impact created by UND Night programs can never be measured on a cause-and-efFect basis. In most instances non-alumni friends of the University as well as alumni at­tended the affairs. Committees in charge succeeded in obtaining generous 
"publicity from press, radio and tele­vision outlets. Alumni leaders in local communities received deser\'ed public recognition from the toastmaster of the evening, since "Local Leadership" was stressed as this year's theme. Notre Dame prestige skyrocketed in many cities throughout the United States. 
m. Clubs and campus cooperated in planning itineraries for University representatives which permitted 24 ad­ministrative and professorial spokesmen to attend meetings in 59 cities. Those from Notre Dame included: Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, presi­dent; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, Executive Vice-President; Rev. Philip 
S. Moore, C.S.C, Vice-President in Charge of Academic Affairs; Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Director of the Notre Dame Foundation; Rev. Thomas 
J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Associate Di­rector of the Foundation; Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C, Dean of the Arts and Letters College; Rev. Joseph D. Barry, CS.C, Ass't. Prefect of Religion; Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, University historian; Rev. Edmund J. Murray, CS.C, Ass't. Prof, of History; Rev. William Hughes, graduate student; Lawrence H. Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science; Alumni Secretary', James E. Armstrong; Robert F. Ervin, Business Administrator of LOBUND; Coach Terr)' Brennan; Business Mana­ger of Athletics, Herb Jones; and Di­rector of Athletics, Edward \V. Kraiise. 
Also, Professor Frank O'Malley; Professor ^Valter Langford; Coach Bill Fischer; Dean Emeritus James E. Mc­Carthy; Professor William Burke; Pro­fessor John Malone; Assistant Law Dean John J. Broderick; and Professor James Dincolo. 
Father Hesburgh was the featured 
dinner which highlighted talks by Father Joyce and John S. Coleman, president of the Burroughs Corpora­tion. The presentation of gavels to past presidents played an important part of the Chicago celebration. Thom­as King, '18, Dean of Men at Michigan State University, represented Notre Dame at the Jackson party. Prominent television and movie star, Jimmy Burke, acted as Master of Ceremonies for the Los Angeles club. 
Complete details of Universal Notre Dame Night meetings are contained in the Club News section of this issue. 

N.D. Glee Club Records Album 
The Notre Dame Glee Club, di­rected by Prof. Daniel Pedtke, is featured in an album of sacred music recently released by MOM Records. Among the selections are Ave Maria, Halleluia Chorus from The Messiah, The Creation, and Were You There? The album will be available as a 12-inch long play­ing 33 1/3 RPM record and as a three-pocket 45 RPM extended play set. For additional information write to the Notre Dame Bookstore, Notre Dame, Ind. 

TRIPLE CITIES—Father Frank Harrison, of Syracuse, N. Y., was the club's featured speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night. Head ghtable guests included, left to right: President George Haines; Mrs. Haines; Father Harrison; Dr. Frank Conole, toastmaster; Mrs. Conole; Richard Hanifin, treasurer; and Mrs. Hanifin. 
' Notre Dame Alumnus, June-JiSy, 1956 

Rook Reodeiu 

CLASS CONTRIBUTIONS AS OF APRIL 30. 1956 
CROSS UPON CROSS, The Life of 

Class 
and before . 
1901 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 
1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 
1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 
1931 1932 1933 1934 
1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 
1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 .. 1948 . 1949 
1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 

Undergraduates Honorary Alumni Notre Dame Clubs . Alumni Corp Gifts in Kind 
Amount Contributed 
4,703.71 25.00 25.00 210.00 60.00 205.00 200.00 85.00 235.00 250.00 1,075.00 192.50 45.00 420.00 440.00 225.00 385.00 330.00 267.00 305.00 320.00 460.00 854.00 3,260.20 1,935.00 2,093.00 1,658.00 3,167.00 1,867.00 4,189.00 1,507.00 2,541.30 1,575.00 3,101.50 1,384.50 2,082.00 716.00 1,214.50 1,907.00 1,702.50 2,073.50 1,284.00 1,463.01 1,686.25 1,366.00 768.00 
654.00 1,122.50 :. 1,860.00 
3,233.50 
: 3,355.16 .. 1,957.00 .. 2,170.00 .. 1,764.50 .. 1,166.50 .. 1,142.00 
23.00 
50.00 .. 15,890.23 .. 16,547.43 
502.75 
107,297.04 
Number of Contributors 
10 1 3 5 3 4 6 4 5 5 3 8 3 11 13 11 8 14 10 
7 12 14 19 31 35 49 43 57 58 66 66 93 78 82 68 77 47 71 79 89 
109 87 86 93 90 58 43 94 147 223 184 154 173 173 125 122 6 1 19 18 2 
3,275 
Number of Alumni 
80 13 14 17 27 23 36 21 32 34 29 65 57 60 75 73 69 99 80 64 91 
117 177 224 227 318 275 396 456 474 482 531 524 544 547 513 421 455 503 562 648 594 569 569 528 339 304 723 
1056 1398 1160 912 1084 853 992 950 
—.. .... 





21,484 

Percentage of Participation 
12.5 
7.7 21.4 29.4 11.1 17.4 16.7 19.0 15.6 14.7 10.3 12.3 
5.3 18.3 17.3 15.1 11.6 14.0 12.5 10.9 13.2 12.0 10.7 13.8 15.4 15.4 15.6 14.4 12.5 13.9 13.7 17.5 14.9 15.1 12.4 15.0 11.2 15.6 15.7 15.8 16.8 14.6 15.1 16.3 17.0 17.1 14.1 13.0 13.9 
16.0 15.9 16.9 16.0 20.3 12.6 12.8 
•„. 
..•-. 
15.0 

Pius IX, by Reverend Francis Bcauchcsnc 
Thornton, '31, Benzigcr Brothers Inc., 6-8 
Barclay St., New York City. 
Father Thornton brings out the sanc-i 

tity of this great Pope. It is also the 
first book on die life of Pius IX written 
by an American. This great Pontiff 
jokingly called himself the first Amer­
ican Pope, because he was the first suc­
cessor of Peter to visit this country, long 
before he ascended to the Papacy. 
As a young priest Pius IX was partlfi of Archbishop Muzi's suite on a mis­sion to Chile. He traversed the entire continent in his journey. In the United States, he fostered the growth of the American Church by erecting during his long pontificate many dio­ceses and archdioceses. He created the first Cardinal of the United States^^ John J. McCloskey, Archbishop of New" York, in the year 1875. 
In Rome, he founded, from his own private means, the two seminaries now flourishing, the North American Col­lege, and the Pio Latino, for South America. 
Father Thornton's book, the result of long, elaborate and conscientiousjjl research made in the very places where the Pope lived, has been received with great enthusiasm by the public. Un­like other lives of the Pontiff its intent is to bring forward in a special ap­pealing way the human and superna­tural beauty of the Pope, to vividly por­tray to the reader his entire personality, not only in the glorious and shining' events of his life, but also in the mo­
ments of sorrow and struggle. 
•
The author has had the good luck and privilege of consulting part of the process in the preparation for the beatification of this servant of God. 
Cross Upon Cross vAW strongly con-^ tribute to the glorification of the Pope-of the Immaculate. The book will be excellent spiritual reading for priests and religious, and will prove to be an effectual defense of the greatness of the Papacy. 
Father Thornton is author of 12 books. At present he is Book Editor^ of The Catholic Digest and Editor of The Catholic Digest Book Club. He has just finished his 13th book. The Donkey Who Always Complained. 
And is at work on his 14th which will appear under the title of Chichi. This fall he wU return to England and Rome for research and writinar. ^ i 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 

^eut4, o^ the. ... 


Notre Dame Law School 
>%lonor Banquet 
Robert F. Kennedy, Chief Coimsel and Staff Director of the Senate Per­manent Subcommittee on Investiga­tions, was the principal speaker at this year's Law Honor Banquet on April 12. The Law Honor Banquet, an annual 
<§vent under the auspices of the Student Law Association, serves the dual pur­pose of honoring the graduating class and recosnizing the achievements of other students who have distinguished themselves. 
A feature of the occasion was the announcement that Robert P. Gorman l^f Tiskilwa, 111., will be the new editor-m-chief of the l^olre Dame Lawyer, succeeding James E. Murray of Ban­croft, Iowa. Other appointments to the editorial staff of the Lawyer for 1956-57 . follow: Associate Editor, Thomas S. Calder, Worcester, Mass.; Articles Editor, Jack Economou, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; Note Editors, Ed-Cl'ard S. Mraz, Chicago, 111., and John 
C. Rogers, Dallas, Texas; Case Editors, Ralph R. Blume, Fort ^Vayne, Ind., and Vernon O. Teofan, Zion, 111.; Book Review Editor, Paul M. Kraus, Toledo, Ohio; Managing Editor, John 
F. Chmiel, Niles, Mich. 
Patrick J. Berrigan of Lewiston, N. ^., will succeed Ronald P. Mealey of 
"Ridgewood, N. J., as director of the Moot Court. His appointment, also, was announced at the banquet along with other officers of the Moot Court as follows: Executive Director, David L. Barnes, St. Clairsville, Ohio; Secre­tary, Lawrence A. Kane, Jr., Cincin­jiati, Ohio; Publicity Director, Thomas ^ . Ryder, New York City; Correspond­ing Secretary, Michael V. Maloney, Ni­
agara Falls, N. Y. 
The members of the graduating class expressed their esteem for Professor Roger P. Peters by presenting him with a camera. 

^, In hb talk Mr. Kennedy pointed out that Russia, which often levels the charge of colonialism against the United States and her allies, imposes a colonialism "of a peculiarly harsh and intractable kind" on the eighteen mil­lion people of the Soviet Central Asian Republics. 
^ "The evils of the policies of certain Western nations in colonial areas are now being widely publicized," Kennedy noted. "The Soviets are directing all their agencies of propaganda toward the exploitation of these difficulties. And yet, at the same time, the Commu­nists, with hardly any objection from us, have been permitted to wipe out the freedom of millions of people occupy­ing an area larger than that of West-em Europe," he charged. 
Mr. Kennedy (left). Law Banquet speaker, Kennedy Received Jaycee Award and Dean O'Meara 
In 1954 Kennedy was named one of tan, Uzbekistan, Tadzhikistan, Kirgizia the 10 outstanding young men in the and Kazakhstan "are as different from country by the U. S. Junior Chamber the Russians as the Malayan is differ­of Commerce. He is a member of the ent from the Englishman, the Moroc­Advisory Council of the Notre Dame can from the Frenchman." 

Law School. Kennedy pointed out that the Rus­
Recalling his visit to Soviet Central sians began their conquest of these an­Asia last year with Supreme Court Jus-" cient and independent states in the 

tice William O. Douglas, Kennedy said the people of the states of Turkmenis-(Continued on page 10) 
William D. Bailey, Jr., left, Wilmington, Del., and John E. Kennedy, center, Minneapolis, Minn., have been awarded John J. Cavanaugh Law Scholarships, founded by Father Hes-burgh in honor of his predecessor. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who is shown congrat­ulating the two winners. Bailey is a history major in the College of Arts and Letters; Ken­nedy is an accounting major in the College of Commerce. Each will receive his under­graduate degree in June and will enter the Notre Dame Law School in September. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
brought back some Postulants. On hiv way back to Lafayette via Chicago, h "
ZiSdo^Ual eo4HmeHU ^.Sl^ slept in a cold room in January, got a 
One of the most con\'incing argu­
ments for the existence of true patriot­
ism is die militar)' cemetery. 
And to me one of 
the most convincing 
arguments for the 
devotion to God and 
Our Lady has been 
the Community 
cemeter)'. 
For flesh and blood 
are the real brick 
and mortar of an 
JimAnnstrong gndurfng institution 
"siicli as Notre Dame. I am freshly, and 
differently, impressed with this truth. 
Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., Ar­chivist, has just given me the privilege of reading a small book of obituaries of the pioneer Religious of Notre Dame, written in the fine hand of Rev. A. Granger, C.S.C. 
Perhaps, with me, you will see in some of these entries the roots of the Notre Dame of today and tomorrow. 
"1844—BROTHER JOACHIM. ' This 
Brother, a Frenchman by birtli, was an 
excellent Brother. He was one of the 
first band who came to America. A 
tailor by trade, he had little occasion to 
work here, for the members were few 
and his life short. He died in his 
30th year." 
"1844—BROTHER PAUL. This Brodier was an intelligent young man, well versed in English literature, and con­sequently of a great help to the Com­munity at this epoch. He wrote a beau­tiful hand and acted as bookkeeper. He was besides truly pious. He died of consumption at the age of 28 years." 
"1847—^BROTHER ANTHONY. This good Brother was a widower when he entered the Community. He was re­ceived wt h his two sons, the younger of whom died an apprentice at Notre Dame ten years after\vards. Brother Anthony was a tj^ie of simplicit)' and true faith. He worked faithfully for the ten years he lived in the Commu­nity. He died aged 63." 
"1854—^REV. J. CURLEY. This young Father died of the epidemy (sic) then raging at N.D. He had been a priest but one year. He came to us from Kentucky, completed with us his cler­ical education, made his profession in the Commimitj', and was ordained at 
N.D. by Rt. Rev. Bishop Lefebron of Detroit. His death was pious and edifying." 

B Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1956 
"1854—BROTHER DOMINIC. This Brother, a German by birth, died of consumption in our old Infirmary where the present one stands. He was a devoted Brother, pious and cheerful. He taught school for some time, and then was employed at some outside work for the benefit of his health, but after lingering sickness he expired on the 16th of September, aged 33." 
"1854—REV. J. COINTET. Of. this excellent religious and zealous priest we may say ... . excellent professor, zealous missionar}', exemplary religious. He did in ten years the work of ten good men. His habitual cheerfulness spread joy around him. He died a victim of the epidemy, aged 38 years." 

"1854—JOHN FLYNN. Brother of Mother Charles, he came to Notre Dame with the intention to join the Communit)' as an ecclesiastic. He was a student at the College at the time of his death. He died of the epidemy with 
. sentiments of deep piety, and resigna­tion (in the old Infirmary, near the present kitclien). He was then 22 years old." 
"1855—BROTHER JOHN OF THE CROSS. This Brother was an excellent shoemaker, and as such his death was a loss to the Community. He was be­sides an exemplary religious man es­teemed by all. He died of typhoid fever at the old Infirmary West of the Col­lege, aged 40." 
"1862—REV. FATHER LE\'EQUE. This good Father was already old when he entered the Community. Eccentric and fond of travelling, he redeemed these natural defects by a lively faith. For some time he was pastor of the little congregation of Lowell, Ind. He died almost suddenly at New Jersey on his return from Cuba, where he had been collecting and recruiting his health." 
"1862—REV. J. BOURGET. This young Fadier came from our Mother at Mans and remained with us for ten years. Pious, humble and simple, he accepted a mission of charity and devotedness, and went, 1861, to Mound City, to at­tend the sick soldiers during the pre­vailing sickness among them. He soon died a victim of his charity, at Mound City, aged 30." 
"1873—BROTHER BERNARD. This Brother was devoted, energetic, and a good teacher. He-started the school at Lafayette, after he had been Director at Baltimore. He visited Ireland and pleurisy, and died in diat city, fortified 
by the last sacraments. He was about 
35 years old." 
"1874—^REV. FATHER LEMMONIER. 

This young priest, a nephew of Ver>' 
Rev. E. Sorin, finished his theological 
studies at Notre Dame where he was 
ordained priest. He was for some time 
prefect of discipline, vice president, and 
finally president' at the time of his 
death. Naturally amiable, polite and 
talented, he won the affection of the 
students. His long and cruel malad_t 
was borne with great patience. Hi P 
death was tioily edifying. He was 35 
years old." 
« « * 
These are but a few of the wonder­

ful entries in Father Granger's book of 
obituaries. But in them you have the 
differences—age, nationality, origins, 
rank, talents. But always the gv<ii% 
common denominator of Faith is there. 
These were indeed sons of Peter, the Rock. Small wonder that Notre Dame in all its growth has never been con­cerned with the strength of its foun­dations. 

New Chem Fellowships ^^ 
Seven new fellowships have been established in the University of Notre Dame's department of chemistr)', ac­cording to Dr. G. F. D'Alelio, depart­ment head. 
W. R. Grace and Co., New York City, has underwritten one predoctoral and three postdoctoral fellowships, t\\L% Notre Dame scientist reported, while single fellowships have been established by Charles Pfizer and Co., Brooklyn, 
N. Y.: the Foster-Grant Co., Leomin­ister, Mass.; and AV. W. Barton, Rock­ford, 111. 
: 
Fourteen additional corporations, government agencies and organizationiJ are cun-ently underwriting research. 
Included are the National Science Foundation, the U. S. Atomic Energ)' Commission, the U. S. Army Ordnance Corps, the National Institutes of Health, The Texas Company, Eli Lilly and Co., E. I. du Pont de Nemours^ and Co., the Peter C. Reilly Founda­tion, Olin-Mathieson, Inc., Monsanto > Chemical Co., Shell Oil Co., Socony Mobil, Inc., Miles Laboratories, Inc., and the Chicago Show Printing Co. 
Fellowships have been established by Frank J. Seng, Chicago, 111., and by C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis._, 

SAYRE URGES INCREASE OF TAX EXEMPTION ON CORPORATION GIFTS 
^ American business and industr)' urgently need men who can think logically and creatively and "who pos­sess adequate management experience and skills," Judson S. Sayre, president of the Norge Sales Corporation, stated at the banquet of the 45 th annual 

(Jfneeting of Central Assoc, of College and University Business Officers held at Notre Dame. More than 200 repre­sentatives of educational institutions in thirty states and Canada attended the sessions. G. Edward Hanvood, N. D. Comptroller, was host to the conven­tion. 
g^ "Top management positions at fabu­lous salaries and stock incentives are going begging," Sayre claimed, "be­cause there aren't men qualified in sufficient numbers to supply the de­mand." It is largely up to our col­leges and imiversities, he said, to teach people "how to think, how to do better thinking and how to think creatively." 
i^ The challenge of the next decade with its "fantastic promise of techno­logical advance and physical expan­sion" may generally be met in the fields of productive skills, Sayre con­ceded. But he warned that if today's problems are any indication, the acute shortage of management and distribu­
lijtion skills "may well produce a national crisis." "We have no real difficulty in find­ing people of good character to fill jobs," he explained. "Not much more difficulty is involved in finding people who combine with good character an adequate amount of relevant business 
|fcsxperience and a pleasant personality. The. real hitch," he emphasized, "is finding people who know how to use their minds." Sayre, who is a member and former chairman of the Advisory Council for Notre Dame's College of Commerce, chided biisiness executives "who pride 
©themselves on the fact that they are practical, not theoretical people." In business, he contended, "there is, strict­ly speaking, no such thing as a good theory which doesn't work. If it is a good theory, it works and, conversely, if it doesn!twork, it is a bad theory," he said. 
Predicting that the age of automa­tion will require fewer skilled workers but an increasing proportion of manage­rial and supervisory personnel, Sayre declared that the nation's colleges and universities are going to need "a great deal of assistance and support" if they are going to produce leaders for busi­ness and industry. 
"I think it is incumbent on all of us as American citizens and as leaders in our respective industries and pro­fessions to enlist our time, our talents and our money to provide oiu: schools with the means and the facilities to give all deserving American youth the higher education so essential to our national growth and individual hap­piness," Sayre declared. 
He urged that the tax exemption for corporate contributions to educational institutions be increased from its pres­ent 5% to 10%. Business and in­dustry are fully conscious of their own social responsibilities, Sayre said, and they will be ready and willing to assbt colleges and universities in solving their financial problems if the methods and the leadership are provided. 

HIAWATHALAND—Tom Plouff (second from left) received the club's Man of the Year award. From left to right: President Robert Voelker; Plouff; Msgr. Melican; and Professor Walter Langford, of the Notre Dame faculty, who was the principal speaker on UND Night. 
Justices of the Indiana Court of Appeals with Dean Joseph O'Mcara, judged the Moot Court semi-finals at Notre Dame. Left to right: Judges Wilbur A. Royse, Dewey Kelley, Donald E. Bowen, Law Dean O'Meara, John A. Kendall, John W. Ffaff, and Harry L. Crumpacker. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
' Raymond C Kennedy, '53, now studying for his master's degree at the Univeisity of Cin­j cinnati, autographs a copy of "All Manner of Men," recently published CPA short story 
* collection for Riley Hughes (right), the editor of the book, on the occasion of Mr. Hughes' Awards Committee of the Catholic Press Association, holds a copy of die JUGGLER, the '' appearance recently in Dayton at Critics Forum. William Holub, chairman of the literary ; publication from which Kennedy's story was taken. Other magazines represented in the book 
are spread before them. "All Manner of Men" has been hailed by critics as "an outstanding collection." 
I KANKAKEE VALLEY—Professor John Broderick, of the Notre Dame Law School faculty, was guest speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night Left to right: Club President Maynard Bissonnette, Broderick and Toastmaster Ed Beinor. 
Law School News 
(Continued from page 7) 
1860's, but tliat some sections were not finally subjugated until the 1920's. 
"TTie Commimists, when they attack Western colonial policies, speak of broken promises, failure to grant loal9 autonomy, segregation and the torture and mmder of colonial peoples in order to subjugate them," Kennedy asserted. "By every one of these standards Soviet control of these areas qualifies as colonialism of a peculiarly harsh and intractable kind," he said. ^ 
Kennedy urged that "this aggressio^ against freedom" be spotlighted in the United Nations and in American propaganda throughout the world. 
"As the Soviets continue their 'peace­ful' encroachments in the Middle East, Afghanistan and Southeast Asia, using as their chief weapon eastern hostility to colonialism, it would be well if thP' peoples and leaders of these areas pon­dered what has been the fate of their brothers to the north in the Soviet Cen­tral Asian Republics," Kennedy de­clared. 

Moof Court Trials 
The Appellate Court of IndianP heard the a:;guments in the semi-final round of the annual Moot Court Com­petition on Friday evening, April 20. The six judges of the Appellate Court sat in two divisions of three judges each. The following students presented arguments before the first division, pre­sided over by Judge Wilfaiu: A. Royse^l Messrs. Thomas P. Carmody of Carlin­vLUe, 111., William C. McLaughlin of South Weymouth, Mass., Laivrence A. Kane, Jr., of Cincinnati, Ohio, and John C. Rogers of Dallas, Texas. 
Students arguing before the second division, presided over by Judge John 
W. Pfaff, were Messrs. Karl Jorda c ^ Bergstreps, Germany, Richard K. Ben­nett of New Castle. Pa., Patrick J. Ber­rigan of Lewiston, N. Y., and K. Wayne Kent of Evansville, Ind. Messrs. McLaughlin, Kane, Berrigan and Kent were judged the ^vinners. They will take part in the final round of the competition next fall. 9 ' 
Prior to the arguments the six Ap­pellate Court judges were the guests of Dean O'Meara at a dinner in the Morris Inn. Also attending the dinner were Mr. George M. Eichler, President of the St Joseph Coxmty Bar Associa­tion, and members of the faculty. 

10 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 




DeFi^^KiiDm Evil 
Reader's 

»^ Digest 

BOOK CONDENSATION 
FEATURE FOR APRIL 

<»' 
The story of Vietnam's flight to freedom is vividly described by Lt. avThomas A. Dooley, '48, in his book. Deliver Us From Evil. Dooley, a naval medical officer, was on duty in Haiphong during the evacuation and helped thousands of refugees escape through the Bamboo Curtain. He gave inoculations to nearly 500,000 natives, performed countless amputations and 
gr-,treated many victims of leprosy and smallpox. In commenting on the book, Admiral Arieigh A. Burke, U.S.N., Chief of Naval Operations, said, "Lt. Dooley contributed greatly to the welfare of mankind and to an understanding of the fundamental principles of the 
©United States, as he participated in this epoch-making period of world history." 
For eight months Dooley was both physician-in-chief and active head of a huge refugee camp and saw hun­dreds of communist torture victims. He .and four other Americans remained in 

Dramatic Vietnam Evacuation Story 


Written by Lt 
the area until the Communist Viet Minh assumed control. Through his camp more than a half-million Viet­namese were processed, given medical care and transported four hours do%vn river by small craft to reach the Amer­ican ships waiting to take them to Saigon. 

He had high praise for American pharmaceutical concerns that sent large quantities of free medical supplies to Indochina at his written request. An airline gave him 100,000 bars of soap. A St. Louis concern furnished an arti­ficial leg for a girl whose leg had been blown off by a land mine. 
"I would tell the refugees that these companies had nothing to gain from doing this. I told them it was simply because they were Americans and wanted to help. People wouldn't be­lieve this. They couldn't befieve it." 
The refugees were a pitiable lot, filthy and diseased. Although they were Christians, Lt. Dooley found them pro­foundly distrustful at first of any Amer­

Tom Dooley, '48 
ican. The Communist propaganda had taken hold. On numerous occasions, the doctor said, he was beaten and roughly handled by his own patients. 
"They hated us," he explained "be­cause all the guns and tanks and napalm (jellied gasoline) that had killed their countrymen in the war with the French was made in America. They considered America the supply depot for France. Every mistake that France had made in her colonialism they at­tributed to America, too." 
The president of Viet Nam awarded Lt. Dooley his nation's highest honor while the Secretary of the Navy in this country presented him with the Legion of Merit for extremely meritorious service. The Reader's Digest selected Doole/s story as the Book Condensa­tion for April. Deliver Us From Evil is scheduled to be made into a movie, starring Kirk-Douglas as the Navy doc­tor. Currently on a nation-wide lecture tour, Lt. Dooley spoke to the Notre Dame student body recently. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 11 


^ustoda?f 
The fourth annual Institute of Spirituality for Sister Superiors and Novice Mistresses will be held at Notre Dame August 1-7, according to an announcement by Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C, Institute director. 
Ke3mote speaker at the sessions will be Bishop Bernard J. Topel of Spokane, Washington. Re­cently elevated to the hierarchy. Bishop Topel received a doctorate in mathematics at Notre Dsmie in 1938 and taught on the campus the following year. The theme of this year's Insti­tute of Spirituality, Father Collins said, will be 'The Technique of the Religious Exercises." More thcin 800 Sisters representing 139 religious communities in the United States and Canada attended the 1955 sessions. The Institute is de­signed to Eissist superiors of women's religious communities in the spiritual formation of their subjects. 
Vocational Development Meeting 
A decade of development in the fostering of religious vocations wiU be jmalyzed at the tenth annual Vocation Institute to be held at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame July 12-15, according to an announcement by Rev. John J. Doherty, C.S.C., Institute director £md director of voca­tions for the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province. 
Several speakers featured at Institute sessions in former years are being invited to address this year's meeting, Father Doherty SEiid. They wiU review the developments in the field of vocation work during the past ten years and suggest new methods and techniques for the future, he explcdned. 
Damaging Effects of Radiation 
A University of Notre Dame scientist says that "irreparable genetic damage" may result from the increasing use of radiation in medicine, industry, research and miUtary development. 
According to Dr. Edward O. Dodson, a genet­ics specialist and associate professor of biology, genetic damage, unlike radiation sickness, "does not have the benefit of a minimum threshold of dosage." He urges that precautions be taken to protect personnel from the genetic effects of radiation just as precautions are currently taken against radiation sickness. 
Father Hesburgh Talks to Youth 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, in ad­dressing the first Washington Conference of Business, Education and Government for Junior Achievement, declared that "for the good of America and American business, yoimg people should begin to learn something about good management and good business at an early age." 
Junior Achievement, Inc., puts boys and girls from 15 to 19 into business for themselves under adult guidance to learn through practical ex­perience about business and the free enterprise system. Today there axe 40,392 youngsters in the program, operating a wide variety of busi­nesses in 2,400 companies. These companies conduct their affairs in 144 Business Centers maintained by the organization in 131 differ­ent communities. 

Graduate Scholarship Established 
A graduate scholarship at Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute wiU be awarded to a quali­fied student for the 1956-57 academic year, ac­cording to an announcement by Rev. A. L. Gabriel, Institute director. The scholarship, which provides $620 tuition and a $980 stipend, wll be given to a young man studying for the master's degree or doctorate in mediaeval studies, Father Gabriel said. 
To be qualified, an applicant must possess a bachelor's degree and be recommended for grad­uate work. He also must reveal a specific in­terest in the Christicm culture of the Middle Ages. A reading knowledge of Latin and either French or German is also a requisite. 

Converts Featured in Book 
Thirteen converts to Catholicism, several of them nationally prominent figures, tell of their spirituEil journey in Where Dwellest Thou?, a new book edited by Rev. John A. O'Brien of the University of Notre Dame (Gilbert Press, Inc., New York). 
Included in the volume are the intimate per­sonal stories of actress LaUian Roth, psychiatrist Karl Stem, music critic Paul Hume and stage designer Jo Mielziner. All of the contributors are laymen except Britain's Monsignor Ronald 
A. Knox who is best known for his translations of the Old and New Testaments. 
•»li 
.f ^eaiiii"-;; . iiiiinn!' 

12 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
.;,, i I 



Band Travels in Southwest 
Notre Dame's concert band of 55 musicians appeEured in tivelve cities in the south and south­west during its annual Spring tour. 
This year's concert program on the 3,000­mile tour included Wagner's "Tannhauser Overture" and the finale from Dvorak's "New World SjTTiphony" as well as a variety of semi-classical and popular melodies, marches and novelty selections. 

Prof. Corbett Writes New Book 
Professor James A. Corbett is the author of The Papacy—^A Brief History published recently by D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc. ($1.25). In this pocket-size volume, the Notre Dame historian traces the history of the papacy, its purpose and its powers, its achievements and its failures, from Saint Peter to Pius XII. Also included are the texts of twenty-nine historic papal decrees, concordats and encyclicals. 

Engineers Hold "Open House" 
The Engineering Open House, held on campus on April 23-24, featured an automobile show, departmental exhibitions, a chariot race and a display of aircraft. The Civil Engineers won the plaque for the best department design. New experimental cars were seen for the first time at Notre Dame in contrast to a 1916 Dodge and a Model-T Ford. The Aeronautical Engi­neering Department displayed a model Jet rocket and a 1,000 m.p.h. wind timnel. 

Inland Steel Co. Provides Aid 
Inland Steel Company will provide the finan­cial aid for establishing an Engineering Schol­arship at Notre Dame, according to a recent announcement by company officials. The re­cipient will receive $1,500 per year and the Uni­versity wiU benefit from an additional $1,000 a year, which is estimated as the difference be­tween student fees and tuition, and the actual cost required to educate him. The scholarship is intended to cover all basic expenses for four years of coUege education. Inland also granted 21 other scholarships to 14 schools. 

Student Yearbook Celebrates 50th 
Notre Dame's yearbook. The Dome, is observ­ing its fiftieth anniversEiry. When students re­ceive the golden anniversary edition this Spring, they NviU see a pictorial story of "the old and the new," contrasting the university of today with the small school of a half-century ago. The Dome has been pubhshed continuously since 1906 except during World Wars I and II when most Notre Dame students were in the armed forces. 
The editor of the 1956 Dome is Donald Snie­gowski, a senior EngUsh major and varsity third baseman from Toledo, Ohio, who recently won a Rhodes scholarship for graduate study at Ox­ford University in England. The 1906 Dome was edited by Charles O'DonneU from Green­field, Indiana, who was to become a poet, a priest and president of the University from 1928 to 1934. 

Catholic Teachers Meet at N. D. 
More than 250 members of the Society of Catholic College Teachers of Sacred Doctrine at­tended the organization's second annual meeting at Notre Dame on April 2-3. 
The Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic Ad­ministrator of the Diocese of Fort Wajme, ad­dressed the opening session and Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, welcomed the delegates, all of whom teach religion in the nation's Cath­olic colleges and universities. 
General topics discussed during the two-day meeting included "The Finality of the CoUege Course in Sacred Doctrine," "The Responsibility of the Sacred Doctrine Teacher for the Catholic Formation of the Student," and "The Responsi­bility for the Catholic Formation of the Student as Applied to the Marriage Course." 

Dr. Kane Addresses Convention 
Parents who exercise reasonable influence and control over their children's choice of "dates" c£m generally save their sons and daughters from an unfortunate or unhappy marriage, states Dr. John J. Kane, head of the department of sociology at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Kane spoke on "The Family's Influence in Dating and Courtship" at the National Catholic Family Life Convention in Boston, Mass. He is the author of Marriage and the Family. 
It is ironical, Kane said, that "in the past when parents did have greater influence and control over courtship and msirital choice, there was less need of it. Today," he cleiimed, "when parents have much less influence and control, there is a greater need of it." 

4th Annual Parent-Son Weekend 
Parents of more thjm 325 juniors at Notre Dame participated in the University's fourth annual Parent-Son Weekend. The program in­cluded a series of events and activities illustrat­ing the academic, religious amd social facets of campus life. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, was the principal speaker at a dinner for parents EUid their sons. 
The deans and faculty members of Notre Dame's colleges as well as the commanding of­ficers and staff of the three campus ROTC units held receptions for parents in their respective buildings during the weekend. Notre Dame's 1955 football highlights film was shown con­tinuously throughout the afternoon in the Stu­dent Center. 

Father Mathis Edits Liturgical Book 
Church Building and Furnishing: The Church's Way, a new book designed primarily for pastors and architects, has been published by the University of Notre Dame Press ($5.50). Rev. J. B. O'ConneU, a Welsh pastor and scholar, is the author of the volume which interprets the liturgicEd law governing the building, decoration and furnishing of a Catholic Church. The book is the second in a series of Liturgical Studies being published at Notre Dame imder the editor­ship of Rev. Michael Mathis, CS.C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 13 


1956 Universal Notre Dame Night 
Above—LOS ANGELES—Alumni and i^ests at UND Night dinner included the following: Left to right, standing—Dr. Leo Turgeon, Mrs. Leo Turgeon, Brother Carlos, C.S.C., Brother Anthony, C.S.C., Gene Kennedy, Gene^ Calhoun. Left to right, seated—^Fio Lopardo, Airs. George Meeker, Rev. John Lj-nch, C.S.C., City Smog Enforcement Officer Louis Fuller, Jimmy Burke, George Meeker, Mrs. Fio Lo­pardo, and Dick White. 
Left — GEORGIA — Participants at UND Night dinner included: back row, left to right: Edward J. Magner, Secretary; Paul S. Ragan, Treasurer; Paul W. Smith, President; and Richard F. Donnelly, Vice-President. Front row, left to right: Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, ^ C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of Notre Dame; Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, S.M., Prin­cipal of Marist College, Atlanta, Ga., and re­cipient of "Man of Year" Award; and Harry Mehre, Toastmaster. 
Below — TUCSON — Ed Krausc was campus representative at club's UND Night dinner. President Ken Bayly and Tim Kind co-chair-manned the affair. 
14 Notre Dame AlumnuSj June-July, 1956 
Above—FLINT—Frank Manley (center), Di­rector of the Mott Foundation, was named Man of the Year by Flint N.D. aJumni. Guests at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in­cluded from left to right: Robert Sibilsky, club president; Rev. C. C. AIcHale, principal speak­
*lir; Mr. Manley; Charles S. Mott, prominent industrialist and wdely-kno»vn phUanthropbt; and William Minardo, club vice-president. 
Right—GREEN BAY—William F. Kenvin, Jr. (third from left), was named Man of the Year in Green Bay. Left to right: Tom Rougcux, secretary; president Jack Vainisi; Mr. Robert 
E. Lynch of the 1903 class; guest speaker Wal­ter Langford of the Notre IJame faculty; and Lou Rymkus, club vice-president. 
•.iSelow—ST. LOUIS—Paul M. Butler, '27, Na­tional Democratic Chairman, was principal speaker at club's UND Night event. Left to right: John F. Higgins, Jr., secretary-treasurer; Butler; Donald A. _ Doheny, club president; Alois Kaufman, president of Chamber of Com­merce (at microphone); Joseph Shea, toastmas­ter; Msgr. Edward A. Rodgers; Hon. James T. Blair, Lt.-Gov. of Missouri; and Fred McNeill. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 15 
Ninety-seven Local Clubs Reported UND Night Meetings To Alumni Office 
Left—PEORIA—^The impressive Ennio Arboi/ Memorial Trophy will be awarded by the almnni club to the high school j^id champ_ in the Greater Peoria Area each Fall beginning in 1956. Ennio's widow came from Califomia to attend the presentation ceremony, held on Universal Notre Dame Night. Left to right: Dr. Clarence Ward, outgoing president; _Mrs. Arboit; and John E. Cassidy, Jr. (standing), 
incoming president. 
Below, left—JOLIET—Wally Voitik (center)^ past president of the club, received Man of thi.' Year award from President Dan Keimedy. 
N. D. assistant coach Bill Fischer (left) was principal speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner meeting. 
Below—ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Dr. Tim Sullivan received the club's Man of the Year Award for 1936. 
Notre Dame Alumtius, Junc'July, 1956 

Testing and Guidance staff at Notre Dame includes, from left to right: Peter Grande; Edward R. Quinn, department bead; and Robert J. Waddick. 


«-' Superior Students Tested By Counseling Officials 
By JAMES E. MURPHY, Director of Public Information 
Some college students are too bril­liant and efficient for their own good, 
^according to Edward R. Quinn, '28, head of the department of testing and guidance at Notre Dame. 
Students with superior mentalities sometimes become frustrated in choos­ing a college course and career, Ed says, "because of their intense interest and outstanding aptitude in several 

^'fields of learning." He cited the case of one student who wants to become a doctor, a mathematician and a high school teacher. "This is a more serious problem than it seems and a student in such a pre­dicament requires patient and careful 
^direction," Quinn points out. He ex­plained that superior students unde­cided as to their course and career are given a variety of readings dealing with their several areas of interest. After completing the readings, the student's reaction is tested by a skilled counselor. Generally, Quinn says, the student him­self will gradually eliminate the alter­
natives and settle on one career or field 
of endeavor. 
A member of the Notre Dame fac­ulty for nineteen years, Quinn empha­sizes that a counselor should never in­dulge in crystal gazing and pick out a specific occupation or course of study for a student to follow. The depart­ment of testing and guidance, he ex­plained, never tries to place a boy in a particular position but rather in the "job family" where he has the most interest and aptitude. 
Quinn and his colleagues, Robert J. Waddick, '51, and Peter P. Grande, '55, all specialists in the field of student guidance, confer with bet\veen seventy-five and ninety Notre Dame students each week. One of their unusual prob­lems, they agree, is the student who is just too efficient. 
Stressing that a study schedule is ad­vantageous to most students, Quinn re­calls one young man who arranged his study schedule with such meticulous precision that he wound up with long p>eriods with nothing to do. This over-exact planning of time usually results in poor work and thus the student's good intentions are defeated, he says. 
The cases of students who are too intelligent or too efficient are relatively few, however, Quinn says. Most of the cases handled by the department of testing and guidance concern students who are misplaced in their courses or who fail to work up to their capacities. 


Any Old Magazines? 
Those "used" magazines you are about to throw away would be aj)­preciated by the Rev. Denis A. Gomes, M.A., 49 Sankaritola St., Calcutta 14, India. Father Gomes is assigned to a jungle mission sta­tion in Bensral. 
The Very Reverend Christopher J. O'TooIe, CS.C, Superior General of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, bound for Madrid on an Iberia Air Lines Super E Constellation. 

HotTe Damt Alamnus, Juiu-July, 1956 


N. D. Alumnus Helps to Build Bases in Antarctic Region 
Lt. (j.g.) Donald P. Landfried, '54, has recently returned to the States after an extended cruise to Little America where he participated in the Navy's "Operation Deepfreeze." Sailing aboard the icebreaker USS Edisto is not a new experience for Langfiied. During tlie 21 months that he has been a member of the ship's staff, Don has made tlu-ee trips to the Arctic, helping to re-supply nordiem outposts. 
Traveling in ice-choked waters much of the time, Don's ship aided the Ad­miral Richard E. Byrd party in estab­lishing two small self-sufficient bases which will be used during the Inter­national Geophysical Year 1957-58. 

The Edisto, with Landfried serving as assistant engineering officer and pub­lic information officer, left Boston last Oct. 30 on the first leg of a cruise which included some of the most bar­ren and remote spots of the world. The ship passed through the Panama Canal in early November, making a short stay at Balboa, Canal Zone. After 29 days at sea, tiie icebreaker made a four-day stopover at Lyttleton, New Zealand, the last stop before proceeding to the Antarctic. 
The Edisto arrived at McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, on Dec. 20, and op­erated in that area for approximately a mondi, escorting other ships through the scattered pack ice and breaking out the heavy bay ice so ships could unload the cargo necessary to establish a small base and air operating facility. 

During the month, the crew of the Edisto, along widi the crews of the other ships, assisted the Navy construc­tion battalion in building a campsite to be used by the men who will winter in the Antarctic. The site is located at what is known as Hut Point, and was formerly used by the explorers Scott and Shackleton in the early part of the century. 
AVliile at McMurdo Sound, Land-fried visited camps which were built a half-century ago and found them to be in as good condition today as tliey were when abandoned by the early e.\plor­ers, having been preserved in "the world's largest refrigerator." 
The Edisto left McMurdo Sound in early January' and went to Little Amer­ica. At Little America, another base was constructed which is only about 30 miles from tlie base used by Admiral B)Td in his earlier expedition. The old Little America base is now covered by many feet of ice and snow. 
In early February the Edisto left 

Lt. (j.g.) Donald P. I^andfried, '54, and friends. 
Litde America and made a survejtv 
cruise of Cape Adare, Antarctica. Ther 
primary objective was to locate an 
emergency landing strip to be used if 
necessary, by the planes which will fly 
in from New Zealand next year. 
The Edisto returned to Little Amer­ica and McMurdo Sound in mid-Feb­ruary, and after spending a few dayi* at each base, finally set sail for home Feb. 20. First stop enroute was Well­ington, N. Z., where the ship remained for t^vo weeks while having urgent re­pairs made. Proceeding to the U. S. the ship stopped in Chile and Peru on the South American coast. 
(9 

SYMPOSIUM SLATED FOR INDUSTRIAL OFFICIALS 
Plans for a Notre Dame chemistry symposium, July 16-17, on recent ad­vances in the field of synthetic polymer?^ were recently announced by Dr. G. F. D'Alelio, head of the department of chemistry. Sponsored by the W. R. Grace Chemical Research and Devel­opment Company, the sj-mposium will be open to industry officials, university scientists and teclmical leaders. 
Six internationally recognized au­thorities in polymer chemistry ar(^ scheduled to participate in the two-day sessions. They are Prof. Giulio Natta, Instituto di Chimica Industriale del PoUtecnico, Milan, Italy; Prof. Charles Sadron, Centre de Recherches sur les Macromolecules, Strasbourg, France; Dr. AVilliam B. Reynolds, assistant di­rector of research, Phillips Petroleirm Co., Bartiesville, Okla.; Dr. Ardiur Pi-Lien, division director of research. Standard Oil Co. of Indiana, Whiting, Ind.; Prof. Herman Mark, director of the Polymer Research Institute, Poly­technic Institute of Brooklyn, N. Y.; and Dr. D'Alelio, who will sei^e as chairman of the symposium. 
The Notre Dame symposium will ex— plore the potential industrial impor­tance of the new hydrocarbon poly­mers. The technical papers and dis­cussion will center aroimd their syn­thesis, mechanism and properties. 
Dates to Remember 1956-57 

Universal Communion Sunday De­cember 9, 1956 Universal Notre Dame Night, April 29, 1957 
9

18 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
Varsity Scores 42-32 Win Over Old Timers in Stadium 
Introducing a galaxy of soph backs ^an d linemen. Coach Terry Brennan ^directed his 1956 Varsity to a 42-32 victory over the Old Timers on May 12 in the Notre Dame Stadium. Ron Toth, a 205-pound fullback from Cleveland, O., Halfback Jim Just, Milwaukee, Wis., Fullback Pietro­sante, Ansonia, Conn., and Tackles Dick Ciesielski, of South Bend, Ind., 
"*Angelo Mosca, Waltham, Mass., and Frank Geremia, Sacramento, Calif., looked good for first-year men. 
AU-American Paul Homung called plays from his quarterback post, ably relieved by Larry Cooke, monogram winner from last year and newcomer Mike Dugan. Captain Jimmy Morse 

^''carried the ball over for the Varsity's initial touchdown after about three minutes had elapsed of the opening quarter. 
Playing in 90-degree weather the Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley for the club's scholarship fund. 

game  attracted  15,000  fans.  It  is  
sponsored  annually  by  the  Notre  
€) Coaching staff, from left 

After the Varsity assumed a 7-0 lead, the Old Timers stormed back to score three touchdowns and were out in front by 20-7. Don Schaefer, con­verted from fullback to quarterback for the game, tossed a 21-yard scoring pass to Frank Reynolds, Oak Park, 111., sophomore back, while Dick Hendricks sped across the goal line twice for six-pointers — one of the touchdowns was a 52-yard run. Schaefer is slated to perform for the Philadelphia Eagles professional foot­ball team this Fall. 
Though the majority of the Old Timers were seniors who will receive their degrees in Jime, some stars of other years got into the game. Gus Cifelli, Ernie Zalejski, Frank Epstein, Chet Ostrowski, Fidel Gander, Dan Shannon and Tom Carey all were in the lineup at various times. 
In addition to Schaefer and Hen­dricks, Dick Fitzgerald starred in the Old Timers backfield. With only about two minutes remaining in the last half, Fitzgerald went over for a touchdown from 25 yards out. 

The Varsity lined up with Prender­gast and Wetoska (soph) at the ends; Geremia and Groble at tackle; Gaydos and Hedrick at guard; Lencaric at center; Homung, Morse, Just, and Toth in the backfield. Fifteen of the 36 men used ^vill be sophomores in the Fall—four of them started the game while five others were listed on the second team. 
Coach Brennan commented follow­ing the game that "we made lots of mistakes and we didn't do too well with the defenses available." Terry mentioned that the Varsity had not concentrated on defense during the Spring practice session but worked on polishing the offensive for next Fall's tough grid schedule. Two promising sophomore tackles, Bronko Nagurski and Don Lawrence, were both out of action with injuries. Dean Studer and Sherrill Sipes, veteran senior backs, were also on the shelf with injuries. Aubrey Lewis, who earned a mono­gram last Fall, passed up Spring prac­tice in favor of track since he is a can­didate for the United States Olympic squad. 
Representatives from opponent schools as well as professional teams were in the stadium to scout Notre Dame's 1956 Varsity and certain Old Timers who will be wearing pro uni­forms after they graduate from the University in June. 
 to right: Bemie Witucki, backfield; Bill Fischer, line; Jack Zilly, ends; Head Coach Terry Brennan; Bill Walsh, line; Jim Finks, backfield; and Jack Landry, freshmen. 
Notrg Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
Coach Jake Kline, Notre Dame's "Mr. Baseball." 

ND BASEBALL TEAM MEETS 
GREAT LAKES IN FINALE 
Winners of their last three games after a slow start. Coach Jake Kline's baseball team has won 6 this season while losing to 5 opponents (exclusive of a pre-season southern trip to Flor­ida). One of Notre Dame's outstand­ing victories in recent years was scored over the University of Michi­gan 6-5 on Cartier Field. Trailing 5-0 at the end of six innings, the Irish stormed back to take tlie deci­sion from the Wolverines. Kohorst, Hurley and Bujnowski have provided 
Sports Bulletin 
Mrs. Jack Mollenkopf, wife of the new grid coach at Purdue, may have a "psychological weapon" to hang in or on her house to steam up the Boilermakers (as if they needed it) when they clash widt the Irish on Oct. 13. The coach and his wife were guests of the Wabash Valley Club on UND Night and the lucky winner of the Notre Dame blanket was none other than Mrs. Mollen­kopf. 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
power at the plate for the Irish. Buj­nowski is also one of Kline's leading pitchers. Coach Kline's squad will play Michigan State and Great Lakes Naval Station away from home be­fore meeting the Sailors again here on Commencement Weekend. 
NetmenWill Compete In National Tourney 
Notre Dame's tennis team, posses­sors of a 7-4-1 record after 12 matches this season, traveled to Kalamazoo, Mich., on May 10-11 and lost to both Western Michigan (7-1) and Kala­mazoo College (5-1). Coach Charlie Sampson's team will meet Detroit there, Chicago at Notre Dame and Iowa at home, before closing out the participate in the National Collegiate championships scheduled to be held in June. 
Capt. Harry Smith has been an out­standing singles competitor this year winning 9 of 12 matches. He teams with sophomore Chuck Vanoncini in the numbe rone doubles team and they have been victorious in 10 of their 12 matches, losing only to North Carolina and MichisBn. 
Other members of the net squa^i include Dean Richards, playing in th^ i third position who is the son of Vin­cent .Richards, former Davis Cup star; Jim Rich, Bill O'Connor, John Metz and Tom Guilfoile. 
Lewis Paces •! Track Squad 
Paced by Aubrey Lewis, candidate for the United States Olympic team, and high jumper Bemie AUard, the Notre Dame track team has beeiap very promising during the outdoor sea-' son after completing a successful in­door schedule. Coach AICK Wilson's team has defeated Michigan State 86/2-54/2 and Pitt 84/2-481^. The Irish were host to the Indiana Inter­collegiate meet which included repre­sentatives from Indiana, Purdue, In^ diana State, Butler, DePauw, Wabash, Ball State and ND. 
Outstanding performers for Notre Dame this season have been, in addi­tion to AUard and Lewis, Bill Squires, miler; Byron Beams, shot put; Jack Cote, broad jump and pole vault; Bill Keegan, 440; Dale Vandenberg, 880; 
m 

Coach Charlie Samson and Irish tennis capt^n, Harry Smith. 
Track Coach Alex Wikon. 
Mike Kauffman, discus: and the mile "'relay squad of Squires, Foreman, Lenihan and Copeland. 
In an attempt to gain a position on the 01>'mpic squad, Lewis has been participating in the 100-yard and 200­yard dash, javelin, discus, 120-yard high and 220-yard low hurdles. The Irish compete against Marquette in a 

^,dual meet in Milwaukee before com­pleting the regular season. 
Golfers Win Nine, Lose Four Matches 

The Notre Dame golf team coached by Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., has been outstanding this season in win­ning 9 of 13 dual matches. In the quadrangular meet held at Notre Dame in May, Purdue defeated the Irish 25-12 and Wisconsin beat Notre ^^Dame 20-16. While losing to these ' two powerful teams, Notre Dame came back to defeat Detroit 3V/i to 5}4. The Boilermakers were paced by NCAA champ Joe Campbell who was defeated on the local greens by sopho­more Chuck Thum of Notre Dame. Two other sharp-shooting sophomores, 
^jin addition to Thum, have been play­ing the top three positions and have been instrumental in the team's suc­cess to date. They include Joe Grace and Lloyd Syron. The golfers met Bradley in a dual match and finished their regular season at Michigan State before competing in the National Col­
»^legiate Championship. 
President's Trophy Awarded to Students 
To provide a greater incentive for Notre Dame students to participate in Inter-hall athletics, the Student Sen­ate has inaugurated the President's Trophy, to be awarded to the hall with the most points gained in Inter-hall competition over the course of the school year. Besides strictly athletic competition, winning the trophy wU encompass such university contests as bridge and hall decorations. 
The silver plated trophy will be pre­sented by Father Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., when the final results from all Inter-hall sports can be tal­lied, soon after the finish of the spring baseball season. 
Off-campus currently is leading the field with a total of 75 points, com­fortably ahead of second place Badin with 49 marks to their credit. Both O-G and Badin have won two major Inter-hall sports. Cavanaugh is in the third spot vA\h. a creditable 45 points and Dillon leads the junior hall group with 37. 
Each new fall semester will open up new competition among the halls for the President's Trophy and the win­ning hall will have its name inscribed on the base of the trophy each year. 
IRISH SAILORS TRIUMPH OVER FIVE OPPONENTS 

Ron Meissner cwitributed 43 of Notre Dame's 77 points as the Irish Sailing Team wound up its r^ular season at Detroit Michigan tied NJ). and Ohio State finished only one point off the pace. The Irish whipped such teams as Detroit, Wayne, Michigan State, Cincinnati, and Marquette. Ray Nelson, Bernardo Gaillet, Tim Rice, and Pete RaiTetto helped Meissner close the season most successfully. 
Next on tap for the classy Irishmen are the Midwest Collegiate Champion­ships at Purdue on the 19th and 20th of June. The ^viimer and the runner-up in this meet ^vill be entitled to enter the National Championships at Detroit the following week. The two top squads from the East, Midwest, and the West will meet for the tide. 

Considering their past record, Notre Dame has an excellent chance to quali­fy for the National meet. The toughest competition figures to come from Ohio State and Michigan. Other teams that have submitted entries are Wayne, Ohio Wesleyan, Washington of St. Louis, Wisconsin and Purdue. 
Notre Dame has beaten or tied every team which it will meet at Purdue. 

Father George Holderith, golf coach, and Captain Leo Matt. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 21 
of Clubs and Their Presidents' 
ARIZONA—PAoemi—EugcM A. Hoeschler, 6303 
N. 13lh St., Phoenix, Ariz. Tiiwon—Kenneth J. Bayly, "50, SOS Fiber Bldg., Tucson, Ariz. 

ARKANSAS—Fort 5mi;A—John Murphy, '28, P.O. Box 457, Fort Smith, .Vk. 
CALIFORNIA—C^nlroJ—Harold A. Bair, '29, 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. Loi ilnml^i—Gcorse R. Meeker, '40, U23G E. Live Oak A\-c., Arcadia, Calif. Northern—Richard J. Ames, '45, 816 Thomhill Dr., Colma, Calif. San Dieso—Harry Monahan, '50, 4728 Felton St., San Diego 16, Calif. 
COLORADO—iJcnti^r—Arthur Gregory, '37, 13 S. Downing St., Denver, Colo. Southern Colo.—A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Rex St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT-Conn^clicu/ roHo—Arthur Mc­Gee, '31, 204 High St., Wallingford, Conn. Naugatuck—James J. Scigliado, '42, 15 Hewlett St., Walerbury, Conn. New Haven—Joseph P. Bums, '34, 8 Vinev-ard Rd., North Haven, Conn. Southwestern—Dr. Vincent Gorman, '45, 5490 Main St., Tnimbull, Conn. 
DELAWARE—Charies A. Wolfe. Jr., 312 Holly Oak Rd., Gwinhui^t, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. Matthew J. Sul­liran, '44, 1801 Eye St. N.W., Washington 6. D. C. 
FLORIDA—Centre;—Roy B. Laughlin, '4S. 2626 Norfolk Rd., Orlando, Fla. Fort Lauderdale—}oha C. SulUvTin, '31, P.O. Box 418, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Miami—Michael Zorovich, '44, 405 N.E. 99lh St., Miami, Fla. North Horirfa—Richard H. Brodeur, '50, 4638 Ramona St., Jacksonville, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—Roy J. Deeb, '48, 1400 
15th St. No., St. Petersburg. Fla. 

GEORGIA—^(fondi — Paul W. Smith. '45, 526 Meadow Lane, Decatur, Ga. 
IDAHO—Fnuids Neitzel, '23, 9 Mesa Dr., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls—James M. Bradv, '29, P.O. Box 381, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS—.4ur<!r(i—Theodore Wiest, '27, 939 W. Lake Street, Aurora, 111. Central /Hino£i—Edward G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. Walnut St., Springfield, III. CAiVnjo—Robert E. Wright, '42, Box 115, Palos Park, III. Eastern ZHinou—Robert Morris, '49, 216 E. Prai­rie, Danville, 111. Joltet—Daniel L. Kennedy, '54, 309 No. William St., Joliet, 111. Kankakee Koi/o^Maynard R. Bissonnette, '53, 640 Beckmaa Drive, Kankakee, HI. P^on'a^ohn E. Cassidy, Jr., '48, Jefferson Build­ing, Peoria, lU. 
Boclt/ord—Frank Sweeney, '19, Faust Hotel, 618 
E. State St., RocUord, LI. 
Rock River Valley—l.\iic R. Morrin, '53, 523 No. 
Dixon, Dixon, Illinois. Southern Cook County—^William E. Martin, '49, 308 Shawnee, Park Forest, III. 

INDIANA—Cafumel District— Tom ClifTord, '49, 715 Harrison St., Gary, Ind. Eastern Indiana—John Marhoefer, Jr., '52, R. 7, Box 309, Munde, Ind. HJtAorJ-Alphonse J. Spahn, '48, 2625 Cassopolis Rd., Elkhart, Ind. Evansville—Fred Dewes, '43, 640 S. Englewiood, Evansville, Ind. Fort tyayne-J. Thomas O'ReiUy, '44, 335 W. Sherwood Tcnacc. Indianapolis—James Rocap, '39, 156 E. Market SL , Indianapolis, Ind, Michigan City—Ur. Robert J. Frost, '40, 817 Pine St., Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph FoUey—William J. Gibbons, '39, 1625 Belmont. South Bend. Ind. Terre Haute—Fred G. Christman, Jr., '43, 2878 Mariposa. Terre Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley—Ted Bumbleburg, 1014 Brown St., Lafayette, Ind. 
lOVIA—Cedar Rapids—Comdim J. Stvers, '48, 634 
31st St., Cedar Rapids, la. Des Moines—Dr. Edward R. Posner, Jr., '41, 4237 IngeisoU Ave., Des Moines, la. Dubuque—^Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Loins Col­lege. Dubucme, la. Tn-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—J. Emmett Keenan, *42, 2611 Famam 
St., Davenport, [a. 

KASSAS—Eastern Kansas—Paul Hurd, '44, 3101 
Lincoln, Topeka, Kansas. Sattio-Robert A. McAuliffe, '36, 1307 Court Place, Salina, Kansas. 

22 NotTt Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1936 
Wichita—George A. Schwarz, '25, 302 Orpheum Bldg. 

KENTUCKY—Joseph P. Harmon, '25, 1203 Falcon Dr., Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA—JrtZa-r«—Robert A. Roy, '27, 509 Alarket St., Shreveport, La. New Orleans—Feter L. Hilbert, '50, 1216 Calhoun St., New Orleans, La. 
MARYLAND—Boftimore — William W. Hartman, '42, 1643 Northboume, Baltimoie, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS—Bo«on—Richard Herlihy, '48, 5 Josephine Rd., West Medford, Mass. Pioneer KolJey^-.^thur L. Demers, '35, 17 Gil­lette Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
MICHIGAN—SoM/e CreeJt—Robert Breska, '43, Rt. 1, Box 151, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water flutric/—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Michigan. Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 60t Willoiv, Lansing. 
Dearborn—Clement^ E. Constantine, '46, 3841 Syra­cuse, Dearborn, Mich. Celroit—James J. Byrne, '43, 17585 Oak Dr., De­troit 21, Alich. fCnt—Robert J. Sibilsky, '42, 2302 Mountain Ave., Flint, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Charles W. 
Duffy, '37, 901 Chippew-a S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Hiawalhaland—Riymosxd H. Ebli, '42, P.O. Btix 
163, Escanaba, Mich. Iron Ranee-Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon Ave., Ironwood. Jackson—^John Lindberg, '50, 1702 Warren, Jack­son. Mich. Kalamazoo—Paul O'Connell, '44, 1729 Sunny-side Dr., Kalamazoo, Mich. 3/onroe^-Charle5_ S. Golden, '48, 3 East Second St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—^Joseph Keusch, '43, 1311 Hendrick Rd., Muskegon, ^fich. 
Saginaw VaUey—Tbomas J. Carroll, '41, 808 N. 
Bimey St., Bay City, Mich. 
MINNESOTA—Dii;u(A-,yu/ien'or— William E. Cot­ter, Jr., '41, 114 Laurie St., Duluth. Twin Cities—Joba J. Connelly, '53, 200 Amherst St., St. Paul 5, Minn. 
.MISSISSIPPI—James Dougherty, '49, 917 Arling­ton, Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI—ATnnror City—(Mo. and Kans.)—Rus­sell Farrell, '48, 1006 Grand Ave., Kansas City, Mo. St. touii-Donald A. Dobeny, '46, 6235 South-wood, St. Louis, Mo. 
NEW JERSEY—Dr. Philip M. Provissiero, '30, 413 Caldwell Dr., Wyckoff, U. J. South Jersey—itatt J. Campanella, '49, 107 E. Madison Ave., CoUingswood 7, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO—Louis C. Lujan, '24, 1004 Simms Bldg., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK—Bufo/o—Ralph F. Else, '34, 278 Voorhees Ave., Buffalo 16, N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27. 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slingerlands, N. Y. Central—Dr. Thomas E. Snyder, '47, 206 West Ave., East Syracuse, N. Y-
GoWen CiVc/e—Georee F. Fitzgetald, '25, 719 
Main St., Olean, N. Y. -a • . 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Joxph A. Rorick, '42, 27 
Monell Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—^Dr. Daniel C. Shaughnessy, '30, 115 Green St., Herkimer, N. Y. New York City—Anthony F. Earley, Jr., '47. c/o LcsUe and Co., 1430 Broadway, New York, N. Y. Northern—Joxph R. Brandy, '21, Box 267, Og­densburg, N. Y. 
floc*«(er—Jack Nye Duffey, '35, 1028 Sibley Tower Bldg., Rochester, N. Y. Schenectady—Dr. John B. Phillips, '37, 873 Wright Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Triple CitiM—George T. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA—CoroKno—Robert H. Perd­val, '48, 1717 Garden Terrace, Charlotte, N. C. 
OHIO—^iron—Thomas Botzum, '49, 121 Avondalc Dr., Akron. Ohio. Canton—Louis L. Singer, '48, 2745 Clei-eland, N.W., Canton, Ohio. Cinrinnoli-Robert McCafferty, '43, 1031 E. Rook-wood Dr., Cindnnati, Ohio. Cleveland—T. Edward Carey, '34, 18843 Ingle­wood Rd., Rocky River, Ohio. Co/um6nj—John W. Gordon, Jr., '42, 1969 Ken-wick Rd., Columbus 9, Ohio. 
DaWon—Frank E. McBride, Jr., '50, 4054 Royal Oak Dr.. Dayton 9, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 744 Main St., Hamilton. Ohio KoHey—Russell B. Rickus, '34, 123 Gamble Ave., WheeUng, W. Va. « 5'nmfiuiy—Allied A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W^ ] Jefferson St., Sandusky, Ohio. ToWo—Richard D. Donoghue, Jr., '49, 2822 Sherbrook Road, Toledo, Ohio. Youngstown—R. GrifT . Allen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA—OUaAomo Cft)>—Charles McFarland, '39, Rt. 10, Box 300, Oklahoma City, Okb. ruliu-Robert D. Sheehan, '42, 2168 S. Owasso Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON—Hugh V. Lacey, Jr., '45, 1308 S.W. Alder St., Portland 5, Ore. ^' , 
PENNSYLVANIA—Centra/ Pennsylvania — William ^ 
S. Clear, '30. 503 Coleridge Ave., Altoona, Pi. I £rie—Richard Daley, '53, 358 Short St., Erie, Pa. t Harrisburg—John W. Davis, '32, 5513 River Dr., S Harrisburg, Pa. l\ 
Monongahela Valley-^'Louis W. Apone, '41, 401 q 
Market St., Brownsville, Pa. PAifarfef/iHo—William G. Bums, '40, 264 Ithan Ave., ViUanova, Pa. Pittsburgh—Leo J. Vogel, Jr., '49, 286 Magnolia PI., Pittsbuigh, Pa. Scranton—^John A. Kramer, '45, 1705 Delavmre St., Dunmore, Pa. ^; . WUkes-Barre—Joha C. Brady, M.D., '36, 22W. Horton St., Wllkes-Barrc, Pa. I IKiniontlpor/—Harry J. Krimm, '28, I2I5 Walnut | Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSEnTS— James E. Murphy, '49, 41 Washington St., War­ren, R. L 
TENNESSEE—C*o«anoosa—Thomas B. Oiven, '35, 4004 Wiley Ave. Afem/)A£f—Joseph Signlago, '48, 945 Colonial Rd., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS—Cnfto—Jacob M. Reichenstcin, Jr., '42 ^ 3121 Grand, Dallas, Texas. ^ ' El PMO—Richard S. Smith, '37, 4311 Hastings St., El Paso, Texas. Houilon—Donald F. O'Brien, '42, 900 Lovett Boulevard, Houston 6, Texas. San Antonio—^A. Thomas Royer, *50, 519 Caroden St., San Antonio. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Reams Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Frank A. Crovo, Jr., '51, 3230 Edge­wood Ave., Richmond. Tidewater—Philip L. Russo, '49, 7314 Hampton Blvd., Apt, 2-B, Norfolk, Va. ^ 
WASHINGTON—ipoitone-Edward J. Bethke, '28, 2411 E. Nord, Spokane, Wash. Ifwlem-Bernard J. Lenoue, '33, 914 21st Ave. No., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Cornelius T. Desmond, '51, 1908 7th Ave., St. Albans, W. Va. Centra/-John D. Julian, '40, 656 Mulberry Ave,, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN—Fox River K<i//e>>-Richard A. Suck, '48, 1306 W. Cedar St., Appleton, Wis. Green Bay—Jack A. Vainisi, '50, 349 S. Washing­ton St., Green Bay, Wis. A LaCrojie-Henry C. Funk, '50, 328 N. 26th Place, LaCrosse, Wis. 
Milwaukee—i>far)c A. Pfaller, '43, 7613 W. State St., Milwaukee 13, Wb. Northwest—C, T. Downs, '33, 71014 Fifth Ave., Eau Claire, Wis. South Centra/-Maurice Leahy, '39, 4114 Meyen Ave., Madison. Wis. Southeastern—Thomas W. Carroll, '51, 917 Main St., Radne, Wis. 
HAWAII-Harry A. Medciros, '53, 1734 .^htonj^ St., Honolulu 17, Hawaii. ^ P 
FOREIGN CLUBS: Bengal, India—Key. John W. Kane. C.S.C., '24, (key man) Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Manila—Enrique Brias, '37. c/ o Roxas y Com­pania, Soriano Bldg., Manila, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. 
Pajuima—^William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 66, An-
con. Canal Zone. Peru—Andres Malatesta, '23, C^lloma 376, Lima, Peru, South America. 
•) 

Cedar Rapids 
fAkron 
A. A. HILKERT was chosen as Man of the Year by the Akron Club for 1956 at the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night dinner. The presentation was made by Mr. Hilkert's son the Rev. Robert Hilkcrt, assistant pastor of the Church of the Annunciation. Mr. Hilkert's stepson, TOM BOT­ZUM, was elected president of the club. 

»J 
TIic featured speaker of the evening was Dr. L.\WRENCE BALDINGER, dean of the College f Science at Notre Dame. Other new ofEcers 
Ticsidcs Botzum who were elected include E. A­HINDERSCHEID, vice-president; ROBERT KA­PISH, secretary; and GERALD KLEIN, treasurer. 
Boston 
Universal Night here in Boston on April 11th was an occasion long to be remembered by the 200 alumni and friends who were present. This 

^annual dinner I;, always an enjoyable time, but 
wthis year's ohscn.-ance was made memorable by the opportunity we had of getting better acquainted with FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH, aS.C. To say we ^vcre inspired by his talk would be a rather incomplete truth. Father spoke of the past, present and future Notre Dame; of the spirit in which it was founded, the spirit whicli continues there today, and of the programs it proposes to maintain this spirit and its ideals. Our sincere gratitude to Father Hesburgh for so honor­ing the club. CHARLEY CROWLEY, chairman of the affair did a professional job of paying tribute to Fr. Hesburgh and introducing Mayor 
dH>-ne3, Dr. James R. Killian, president of M.LT., 
"FATHE R JAMES J. SHEEH.AN, CS.C, president of StonehiU College, and Swede Nelson. The annual Man oE the Year award was presented by CHUCK PATTERSON to PAUL HELLMUTH as an alumnus who has distinguished himself out­standingly in his profession as a la^vyer and execu­tive and ^vho has faithfully supported Notre Dame and this club. BILL HEALY retiring president, thanked members for their assistance during the past year. DICK HERLIHY, president for the coming year, introduced the newly elected officers: w e president, LOU DI GIOVANNI; secretary, ^BIL L MCCARTHY; treasurer, DICK HYLAND and 
•;iirectora: BILL O'BRIEN, BILL HEALY, MIKE OTOOLE. HARRY MARR, PAT TOFURI, CASPAR URBAN, and DICK KIRK. 
Buffalo 
The BufTalo Club held its annual election on Marcli 6, and the following officers were elected: RALPH ELSE, President; FRANK GAGLIONE, 

-Vice President; RICHARD LEOUS, secretary; 
W iOHN CONSIDINE, treasurer, and LOUIS ALMASI, finandal secretary. New Directors were also elected: LOUIS ALiUSI, JOHN LA VIGNE. ANTHONY ROCCO, JOSEPH WATSON, and JOHN BOLAND. 
The first big event of the year was Universal Notre Dame Night on April 9. The Honorable PHILIP J. WEISS, Genessc County Judge and Surrogate %va3 the principal speaker. The judge attended pre-law school at Notre Dame and he spoke about little known details of the history 

^of Notre Dame. Chairman JOE WATSON was 
^responsible for a successful affair which included cocktails and a smorgasbord dinner. Over one hundred people attended. BILL LA^VLESS, Common Coundl President of the City of Buf­falo, presided as Toastmaster. 
CY RICKARD, shared the spotlight with Judge Weiss when he was named Notre Dame Man of the Year! Cy has worked many years for the Buffalo Club, sennng as a Director for four years and as Vice President last year. His selection produced a spontaneous and unanimous appro%'3l from every­body present. 

•; 
^ ti t> 

Our annual week-end Retreat was affected by a Friday night snow, storm and 12 Notre Damers had the large Retreat House run by the Columban Fathers at Dcrby-on-thc-Lake to themselves. Father O'Brien proceeded as usual and the Re­treat was a spiritual success. 
President Else Is busy planning his program for the year which we \vill hear more about in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
—PAUL J. ALL^^•EIN, '49. 

Calumet District 
The REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CS.C , Executive Vice-President of the University was guest speaker at the Club's successful Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner held at Phil Smidt's Restaurant on April 2. 
Canton 
The Canton Alumni Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a featured talk by DR. LA^VRENCE BALDINGER, dean of the College of Science. The event was held at the Holiday Country Club and about 50 alumni, their wives and guests were present. In addition to Dean Baldlnger's talk, the 1955 Football Highlights fihn was shown To the group. 
The club's first Communion Breakfast was held in December and was attended by members from Cedar Rap;ds and Iowa City. C J. STVERS a president of the local club. 
Central California 
A family gathering of Notre Dame men and their wives had a real swell barbecue and sodal night at the home of JOHN CELLA, Sunday e\-e­ning April 15th celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The University was completely rebuilt by the men, and the ^v•omen folk had an opportunity to get ac(|uainted and watch their handsome balding menfolk relive their undergraduate days. Con­siderable time ^vas spent tasting Miller's High Life flavor before the steaks were ready. Everyone present do^ed their hats to John Cella's e:q>ert hand at. broiling a steak. They were delicious. Of course th- wine was Cella's although somebody sneaked in a bottle of Roma and the finger of suspicion pointed to our FBI agent JOHN GROVES. Everyone claimed they had the proof, however no conWction was secured. 
Those present incuded Mcsscrs and Mesdames MIKE KEYES, JAMES WttALEN, HAROLD BAIR. JAMES PAGLLXSOTO, J.AY GIBSON, ROBERT THOMPSON, DR. JAMES FRYE. JOHN GROVES and Messers HUGH SCHADLE, and DR. JAMES CONNER. 
—Secy., JAMES PAGLLASOTn, '36. 

Central Florida 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, alumni secretary, was the featured speaker ai the club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night, in Orlando. 
BOSTON—Head table guests at UND Night dinner included: seated (left to right) Dr. James R. Killian, president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CS.C, president of Notre Dame; standing (left to right) Mayor John B. Hynes of Boston, and Charles Crowley, dinner chairman. 
NotTt Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
liiijiiiasi: ^^;£££i^^^££^ ;iamfis 

BUFFALO—Joe Ryan (left) presenting a check for $1500 to Ralph Else for the scholarship fund while Jack Shine (center) looks on. 
Central New York 
Universal Notre Dame Night u-as celebrated on April 9 with a dinner dance at Le Moyne Manor, The guest speaker uas FATHER E. J. MURRAY, C^.C , who had the opportunity to renew acquaint­ances u*ith many former pupils from before and after the war. Father Murray ^vas a chaplain during the war and recounted some interesting experiences involving Notre Dame men. 
The highlight of the evening was the presenta­tion of a plaque to Monsignor JOSEPH B. TOO­MEY as a token of thanks from the University for his having served three years on the Alumni Board of Directors, Monsignor TOOMEY is a past President of the National Conference of Catholic Charities and is now Moderator of the National Council of Catholic Nurses. The pre­sentation of the plaque was made by our club President, DR. TOM SNYDER, 
BILL D^\TER %\-as Chairman of the affair and did a fine job of getting out a good crowd. —ED CLEARY, '43, Secretary. 
Central Pennsylvania 
The Universal Notre Dame function this year was a dinner in Altoona, Pennsylvania on Thurs­day, April 12, 1956. This affair, held at the 40 & 8 Cli^, was attended by fifty-five alumni and parents of students. Incoming president, AVILLIAM 
S. CLEAR of Altoona, was chairman of the dinner and the %fan of the Year award was in charge of EUGENE CAVANAUGH of Johnstown. Rcdpient of the award was FR. PHILIP O'DONNELL, Club Chaplain. Following a talk given by Fr. O'Donnell, movies of football highlights were shown to the group. 
New oflScers for the year are: President, WILLIAM S. CLEAR, 503 Coleridge Ave., Al­toona, Pa.; Vice-Prrrsident, EUGENE CAVA­NAUGH, 114 Erie SL , Johnstown, Pa.; Secretary-Treasurer, CHARLES G. HASSON, 208 North Julian St., Ebensburg, Pa. 
—CHARLES G. IHSSON, Secretary. 
Chattanoogo 

The club held Universal Notre Dame Nl^ t on April 12 and had as special guests alunmi secretary JAMES £ . ARMSTRONG and Mra. Annstrong. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1956 
Jim gave the group a detailed report on campus 
progress and problems. Father James Diiscoll, 

principal of Notre Dame High School, spoke on 
the importance of a Catholic education. The 

event was held at the Fair>'Iand Club on Lookout 
Mountain. Alumni who were present included: 
JOHN TERRELL, \V. C. CASEY, EDWARD 
DAVIS, JIM BURKART, FRANK DELANEY, 
GENE TRINKLEY, MATT McINERVY. SAM 
SCHARBER, PAT CROWE, JR., and TOM 
OWEN. 
—TOM OWEN 

Chicago 
On the night of April 16 in the Sheraton Hotel 

you could have raised a million dollars, awarded 
diplomas, recorded d^eds, held football practice, 
conducted a funeral, staged a concert, or TV 
shmv, held a retreat or accomplished just about 
any other activity . . . with professional guidance. 
Present were bankers and financial men like 

FRANTC MILLIGAN, TERRY DILLON, BOB 
^VILMOUTH; judges like NORM BARRY and 
FRANK McCURRIE; educators Uke FATHER 
EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., execuUve vice-
president of the university, and in the high school 
field FATHER JOHN E. O'CONNELL, O.P., of 
Fcnwick High School; athletes like BILL FISCH­
ER, N.D. AIl-Am-rican line coach; showmen and 
singers like GEORGE MENARD, CBS' answer to 
the farm problem, and professional amateur tenors 
like PAUL OTOOLE; officeholders like guest 
Cook County Clerk EDWARD BARRETT; and 
lawyers JOHN McGOORTY, TOM NASH, JOHN 
O'SHAUGHNESSY, MAURY LEE, TOM Mc 
CABE, etc, et al., enough to have evoked another 
commentary by Blackstone (another in the Shera­
ton chain—a chain smart enough, incidentally, to 
hire TOM McDONALD, '49, as sales manager of 
the Sheraton—and he helped greatly to make the 
evening a success). 
The occasion was the 31st consecutive observ­ance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Chicago. (For those technical souls who might point out that it wasn't observed in, say, *29 or '33— where were you that night .. . out with English­men or Big Ten men? Of course it was ob­served, if only at home.) 
The feature of the evening was the honor paid the past presidents of the club. Twenty-five of the living thirty-five past presidents were present .. . and not even a Jefferson's Day dinner rn^ match that record! Engraved gavels bearing tht c j name of each ex-prexy vrcre presented. ^T^ 
Chairman was PHIL FACCENDA, *51, who diaV/j an incomparable job. Appointed only a few weeks ^'j before the dinner, he had everything so or:gantzed .-wj that the evening ran without break from the ^; first toast in the bar to the last words of toast-i] master George Menard. li 
Chief speaker of the evening was Father Joyce. ^ He presented a memorable word picture of how a the university has overcome past problems and M faces those of the futtirc. Not too many years W ago, the executive vice president pointed out—*^ Notre Dame was a small school little known out^;, side the sports pages, with an enrollment of V 2,000 and a small and undistinguished staff whose 1 total payroll was only $160,000. Now enrollment K is 5,000 and the staff represents a staggering K annual outlay of well over a million dollars. U 
Other features of the evening included talks by b outgoing president JOE McCABE and incoming 0 president BOB \VRIGHT, and presentations of | the annual Man of the Year Award; a special £ citaUon to EDWIN O'CONNOR, '39, author of f the best-selling Book-of-the-Month winner "Thj*­Last Hurrah," and introduction of the new FREL ^ SNITE, JR., Memorial Golf Trophy, which will be offered in competition this year for the first time ar the annual golf tournament July 9. 
In signing off, your 'umble jumbled servant of­fered his Last Hurrah to the men who made the year the success everyone so kindly said that it had been. Only when it is over can a dub presi­dent realize what a gargantuan pair of shoes he has been attempting to fill—and only through the aid of numerous other footsoldiers has he filled them. Particular thanks was paid to the following chairmen: golf, DON HOGAN; Father-and-Son^ ' meeting, GIL SEA^L\N; Victory dance. TOM BRO-\ GAS; lecture series. AfAURY LEE; Communion [, Breakfast, PHIL FACCENDA; directory and mail- ^| ings, BILL KENNEDY; printing, RAY COLLINS; =; telephone, JIM O'KEEFE; sectional groups. KEN ^ ENRIGHT, WALT KIOLBASA, and ROGER h WHITE; Diller-a-DoIlar Scholarship dance, FRANK U MILLIGAN; exchequer, BILL DWYER and BOB g: WILMOUTH; liaison vvjth campus club, JOE f PAGLIARI and JIM DOYLE; advisory board Ha:-h son, JIM FERSTEL; for a GREAT job on pub-| licity, FRED JOYCE, JR.; for advice and encour-h agement. DAN O'CONNOR- and JOHN-{ 
O'SHAUGHNESSY. And above all —for every*' thing, thanks and homage to the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
During the course of the talk, McCabe presented a check for $400 to John McGoorty of the club's Scholarship Foundation, representing profits from the scholarship dance mentioned above, which Milligan had chaired—and everyone else cheered. During the dance itself another check, for $700 raised by direct contributions from 25 Chicago alumni, had been presented to Foundation Chairman TOM BEACOM . . . so thb latest gift brought to $1100 the donations of the club this year to the^ fund which aids deserving Chicago high school graduates to attend Notre Dame. The arrange­ments are TOTALLY HANDLED BY the Caixlinal Stritch Youth Foundation, inasmuch as the club has no facilities for such activities. 
The Man-of-the-Year Award this year went to an outstanding alumnus and exponent of Christian family living—PATRICK F. CROAVLEY, '33, a Chicago attorney. Together with his wife Patty, Crowley was instrumental in founding the Christian Family Movement. Originated less than a decade ago, the movement has spread rapidly across the nation. Presentation of the award was made hy^ JOHN MORLEY, '35. 
In gratitude to his memory, and tribute to the example provided by the late Fred Snitc, Jr.—the smiling "Kid in the Iron Tank," whose great fight for survival brought recognition and provided in­spiration to sufferers and thinking people in every land—the club this year introduced as a small token of its feelings the Fred Suite Jr. Memorial Golf Trophy. M:ule of walnut, the trophy is a handsome symbolizatlon of Fred's devotion to golf before his polio attack. It. will be offered-In-com-^^ petition this year at the annual tournament . . .^^ and between tourneys, thanks to the kindness of his father, Fred Suite, Sr., the trophy will be on display at the Elmwood Country Club. The presen­tation of the new award was made by dnb secre­tary TOM BROGAN and accepted by Fred's brother-in-law and Ilfdong friend, TERRY DIL­LON, '32, on behalf of the family. 
Line coach BILL FISCHER also said a few humorous words—humorous until he stopped to think of the year ahead. Then he sighed and said that things looked tough—inchiding, he hoped. 
^^ e new candidates trying to fill those graduatioa ^^aps in the line. 
Installation of the new officers then followed: ROBERT EMMETT WRIGHT, '42, president; FRANCIS J. MILLIGAN, '45, first vice-president; JOHN F. MORI.EY, '35, second vice-president; WILLIAM P. FEELEY, '06, honorary president; PHILIP J. FACCENDA, "51, secretary, and JAMES 
T. DOYLE, '31, treasurer. Members of the board installed included JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, '33; JAMES T. GALLAGHER, '29; LUKE J. TIER­NAN, '38; FRANK MATAVOSKY, '35; JAMES 
'ftp. CONWAY, JR., '42, and HUGH E. MULLI­'GAN, '50. 
Cleveland 
The Alumni Club's Annual Rocknc Memorial Mass and Communion Breakfast was held on April 
 and featured the following guests: FATHER ARTHUR J. HOPE, C.S.C., JIM CRO\VLEY of Four Horsemen fame, and MRS. KNUTE ROCICNE. The Mass »vas held in St. John's 
• iathedral and breakfast followed at Hollenden Hotel. DON MILLER scr%cd as chairman of the affair. 
DENNIS O'NEILL received the Club's "Man­of-the-Ycar" award at the breakfast. The presen­taUon was made by HUGH N. 9'NEILL (no relation to Dennis), last year's recipient. The in­scription on Dennis O'Neill's award read as fol­lows: "By his exemplary manner in matters of family, faith and citizenship he most truly embodies the ideas of the University of Notre Dame." 
'Columbus 
Universal NJ) . Night was celebrated ia the Ohio Capital on Monday evening, April 9th, at the University Club. Following a social hour in the Club parlor the N.D, members, wives and guests retired to the Dining room where a delightful dinner was served. ^ 
Toastmaster for the program was PETER SKER­RETT, Class of '52. who recounted the history of Universal N.D. Night, In carrying o«t this year]s theme of recognition to Notre Dame men in this area—Pete used the idea of floodUghting rather 

tf than spotlighting any indiWduals. Explaining that in respect to our families, our parish church, our business, and professions we are in a sense all leaders. 
JOHN R. MURPHY, Class of '28, President the past two years, gave a review of thc^ Club's activity during the past year, giving recognition to the other officers and committee chairmen. 
New officers installed were: JOHN W. GORDON (Class of M2). President; JOHN NESTER (Class of '49), Vice-President; E. P. (PAT) CANT;VELL (Class of '52). Treasurer; JOHN R. (BOB) ECHENROD E (Class of '48), Secretary. 

- Our "Man of the Year" was JOHN R. MUR­
" PHY. He was presented the award plaque by HARRY NESTER, '2u, Chairman of the Commit­tee of previous a\vard winners, who made the selection. 
Representing the University on this occasion was ROBERT F. ERVIN (Class of '36), who gave a very excellent talk -in the story of Lobund and the work being done there in the gcrm-frce animal world. We all cnj'oycd the visit of Mr. Ervin ^v•hom wi learned is a native of nearby Jackson, Ohio. 

Our program closed -vith a wire recording rendi-M ,tion of the Victory March as sung by the N.D. Glee Club in their concert here one year ago. —Larry Stember, Sec>'. 
Connecticut 
More than 400 alumni and their guests listened to ihe REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, G.S.C., on the occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night. The dinner was sponsored by the combined 

N.D. alumni clubs of the state including Con­^.necticut Valley, Naugatuck, New Haven and South­
- western. It was held in the Hartford Club at Hartford. Father Hesburgh was welcomed by the MOST REV. HENRY J. O'BRIEN, Archbishop of Hartford, GOVERNOR RIBICOFF and CON­GRESSMAN THOMAS DODD. SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE JAMES E. MUPvPHY of Bridge­port was toastmaster. 
^{an of the Year awards were presented to alumni in the four clubs. Those honored included: JO­SEPH P. McNAMARA of the Southwestern club; REV. HAROLD SCHERER of Hartford; ^VALTER LEE of New Haven; and THOMAS EGAN of 

^^Waterbury. 
Dallos 
From JOHN MORAN: 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on April 5 with a cock­tail party and dinner in the Baker Hotel attended secutivc year, a $2,4(X) scholarship to Notre Dame. Dame. 
Speakers at the observance, which was opened to wives and non-club members for the first time this year, were the REV. ALFRED F. MENDEZ, C.S.C., director of student aid and scholarships at Notre Dame, and COACH TERRY BRENNAN. 
Winner of the Man of the Year Award was ARTHUR T. SIMPSON, a member of the class of I90I. Arthur was cited for his long time devo­tion to Notre Dame and his support of the Dallas chib's activities through the years. The presenta­tion was made by JAMES P. SWIFT, last year's winner. 
J. M. IL\GGx\R, JR., outgoing club president, presided. Arrangements for the evening were handled by J. M. REICHENSTEIN, JR., incom­ing president. Other new officers who were intro­ducid at the dinner were ^VILLIAM A. GRADY, first vice-president; AVILLIAM LAJOIE, second vice-president; HAROLD TEHAN, secretary, and WILL KIRK, treasurer. 
LANOVSTER SMITH, former coach of Jesuit High School and now an issistant district attorney, introduced Terry Brennan who was a teammate at Notre Dame. Also introduced at the dinner was BILL FLYNN, ex-Notre Dame star, who has suc­ceeded to the Jesuit High coaching position. 
In other club activities. Scholarship Committee Chairman JOHN J. MORi\N recently announced the club would again ofTer, for the second con­secutive year, a 52,400 scholarship to Notre Dame. May I was the deadline for applicants. 
From BUDDY GOLDMAN: 
On March 11, Laetare Sunday, the well-known Barry Holton spoke on "Knute Rockne." Services were at Holy Trinity Church and breakfast at the Melrose Hotel. 
The Club's annual traditional Christmas Dance proved such a financial success that it boosted our annual scholarship to its full maturity of 524(X) or $600 per year for four years. 
Doyfon 
The Dayton Club had a very excellent tmout for Universal Notro Dame Night. It was held at the Gibbons Hotel with approximately o^t y per­sons in attendance. Professor ROBERT F. ERVIN from the University was our principal speaker. He presented a very splendid talk on Lobund. It was illustrated with color slides. 
WILLIAM MacMILLAN, JR., was named "Man of the Year*' for the Dayton Club for his out­standing service during the past several years. 
GENE MAYL also received a special award for his local leadership. He is now the President of the 1936 Dayton Community Chest. 
The officers elected for the coming year are: President, FRANK E. McBRIDE, JR.; Vice-Freii­dent, ROBERT HOIXENKAMP; Secretary, PAUL LAMMERS; Treasurer, ANDY AMAN. 
LEO FETTIG and EDMUND SHEA were elected to serve on the Board of Directors for a three-year term. 
The club presented a check for $500 to Mr. Ervin for the Notre Dame Foundation. LEO CONDRON, the outgoing president, is to be congratulated for progress that the club has made under his direction during the past two years. 
Frank McBride, ftes. Paul Lammezs, Secy. 
Dearborn 
The aTlTlnal election, held April 1—produced' the following results: CLEM CONSTANTDJE, '« , President; LARRY DOLAN, '47, Vice-President; JACK E. COURTNEY, '50, Secretary-Treasurer. 

The retiring oflicers are JERRY WAYNO, '47, President; JERRY GASS, '48, Vice-President; CLEM OONSTANTINE, Secretary, and LARRY DOLAN, treasurer. 
PETE KERNAN, '49, and TOM DORE, '49, handled the Dearborn Club reservations for Univer­sal Notre Dame night at the Latin Quarter. 
Our club activities for the coming year include the Annual Communion Breakfast, May 20; Family Picnic, Jime 10; Afid-summer garden party, July 14; Golf outing on Aug. 4; a beer party at a local brewery in September; and football trips to the Michigan State and Oklahoma games on Oct. 20 and 27. Also on the agenda are a Tri-CoUege 
CEDAR RAPIDS—^The first Conunimlon BreaUast hdd by the Cedar Rapids and Iowa City alumni proved very successful. Seated (L. to R.): Chuck Schimberg, William Redmond, John Lecher, Bud Murray, Hub Schimberg and Jack Barry. Standing (L. to R.): C J. Styers, Robert Locher, Joe Enzler, Ray Petizelka and Joe Crech. 
Notrt Damt Alumnus, June-July, 1956 25 
CENTTIAL NT;W YORK—Father EdMurray, C.S.C., was guest speaker from the campus at the club's UND Night dinner. Left to right: Msgr. Joseph Toomey, who received a plaque from the University for his ser^-ice as an Alumni Board of Directors member; Father Murray; and Dr. Tom Snyder, president. 
dance in cooperation with th? alumni groups of Xt.S.U. and U. o( M.; a dinner dance; stag dinner and a day of recollection. 
Jack Courtney, Sccy.-Trcas. 
Denver 
NEW OFFICERS 1956 On Marcli 27lh the Denver Notre Dame Club elected officers at a meeting held in the Knights of Columbus Home. They arc as follows: ARTHUR GREGORY, President; GLENN F. MENHEN­NETT, Vice-President; Treasurer, RAYMOND RIS­TOW; Secretary, MAURICE REIDY; Board of Di­rcctcr; — tlie outgoing president J. PHILIP CLARKE, M.D., JAMES F. H/\NLON. GERALD 
L. SMITH and JOHN D. RY/\N, and publicity director, THOMAS J. GARGAN. 

UNI\nERSAL NOTRE DAME N7GHT Universal Notre Dame night was held at the Park Hill Country- Club on April 9th. FATHER JIM McSHANE gave the principal address and emphasized the leadership role played by Notre Dame alumni. An attractive dinner w"as ser\'ed at $7-50 per couple. Dance music wzs provided by Dick AVestcrbcrg and his orchestra. Chairman \\TLLLVM B. BR/VDLEY headed the universal Notre Dame night committee consisting of DR. J. PHILIP CLARKE, LEO J. ROBmOUX and THOMAS J. GARGAN. Wives of the Alumni assisted the committee in preparation of decorations 'for this event and also made up the telephone committee. One of the highlights of this ycar*s affair was the award of the annual Denver Notre Dame Scholarship. EUGENE S. BLISH, Chairman of the scholarship committee, made the presentation of the schelarship jointly -with outgoing president Dr. Clarke to Ronald J. Tclk, of 3228 Meade St., a senior at Cathedral High school. This %%*as the I6tb annua] Denver Notre Dame dub scholarship. Mr. Tclk ^viU graduate in June from Cathedral. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 

He ranks second out of 105 students. The annual scholarship winner Is selected from botli parochial and public schools throughout the State of'Colo­rado bv Mr. Blish and his committee consisting of FRANK CONWAY, DR. JOSEPH MURPHY, ROBERT MALLOY, GER^VLD i.1. SHEA and AHLLIAM D. Mx\HONEY. 
Thomas J. Gargan, Publicity Director 

Des Moines 
It's been a long time since the Des Moines Club has had any activities to report. However, since December 1st, we Iiave had three functions which \vcre ver>* successful. 
On December 9, 1955, wc had our annual Com­munion Breakfast at which time DR. ED POSNER, JR., '46, was elected club president, BOB CAN­NON, '50, \-ice-prcsident, and yours truly, secre­tar>'-treasurer. 
The annual N.D. Des Moines Chib Blue & Gold Ball was held December 27, at the Savery Hotel. This function is always a high point of the holiday season, and was well attended by alumni and friends. In fact, this year's dance was our most successful, tlianla largely to the efforts of BOB DREY, *52, ^vho was in charge of the entire 
program. Just last week we held our St. Patrick's Day Stag at the Fort Des Moines Hotel. All-American fullback Don Schaefer was our guest speaker. Film highlights of last year's football season were shown, and Don conducted a question and ons^ver period after the showing. \Ve had a group of 51 alumn! and friends present; the alumni included the fol­lowing: JOE CASEY, ED POSNER, BOB CAN­NON. ED BLIEQUEZ, BOB TIERNAN, ANDY McCORMACK, BOB DREY, JACK DREY, DICK ARKWRIGHT. GEORGE PFLANZ, FRED NES­BIT, JOHN McCONVILLE, JOE WHALEN, KEN REXSTRE\\', BEN CONDON, GERRY HARRING­TON, BOB LISTON, JOHN PLANALP. MARGE \\'ONDERLIN, TED BOESEN. JOHN STARK, 
TONY CRITELLI, JIM DENNAN and BOB KURTZ. I might add that each brought a guestll| —some two. '^ 
Andy McCormack, *50 

Detroit 
New officers were elected as follows: President: JAMES J. BYRNE; First Vice-President: WILLUM 
C. RONEY; Second Vice-President: EDWARD A. GAGE; Secretary: DAN F. BRADLEY; Treasurer: JOSEPH H. CAREY. 
The following directors were elected by the mcm-k^ bcrship to ser\'e a three-year term beginning on .April I: PETER KERNAN, JR., THOMAS J. VERBIEST, EDWARD J. HICKEY. JAMES J. BYRNE, JOSEPH H. CAREY and EDWARD A. GAGE. 
Tlie club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner was held on April '^ at the Latin Quarter. Mr. Don E. Ahrens, v^ce-presidcnt of General Motors Corp., Cadillac Division, 5er\'cd as toastmaster. Talks were given by the REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame and Mr. John S. Coleman, president of Bur-^ roughs Corp. EDWARD V. CROWE, director of the CYO, wiji selected as Man of the Year. PAUL FOLEY and DON HERRON did a bang-up job as co-chairmen for the UND Night affair. 
Head table guests included: Mr. Jamison Handy, President, The Jam Handy Organization; Mr. Harr>' 
J. Loynd, President, Parke-DaWs and Company; Mr. Donald F. Valley, Executive Vice President, Na­tional Bank of Detroit; Attorney General Thomas 
M. Kavanaugh, Lansing, Michigan; Louis C. Miri­ani. President, Detroit Common Council; Mr. C. H. Rceme, President, The Udylite Corporation; Mr. 
L. I. ^Voolson, President, DeSoto Division Chrv'slcnj^ Corporation; Rev. Harold J. Markey (invocation),' Visitation Church; Mr. Edward H. KcIIey, General Manufacturing Manager, Chevrolet Motor Division; Mr. Clarence J. Huddleston, Executive Vice-Presi­dent, Wabcck State Bank of Detroit; Mr. Robert 
P. Laughna, Vice President, General Manager Packard-Clipper Division Studcbaker-Packard Cor­poration; Mr. Virgil Exner, Director of Styling, Central Engineering Plant, Chrysler Corporation; Mr. Frank P. Williams, President S. S. Krcsge Company; Mr. John E. Brennan, General Manager Automotive Body Division, Chr>'slcr Corporation; Mr. George H. Mcihis, President Albert Kahn As­sociated Architects and Engineering, Inc.; Mr. H.^ 
G. Bixby, President Ex-Cell-O Corporation, Detroit, Miclilgan; Mr. Fred A. Compton, Vice President of Sales—Detroit Edison Company; Mr. Art Cronln, past president of N.D. Club, 1955-56; Mr. Jim Byrne, nc^v president of N.D. Club. 
The Club's Annual Retreat was held at Manresa Jesuit Retreat House in Bloomficid Hills on the weekend of February 17. JACK BREEN and JER­RY ASHLEY were co-chairmen. 
Dan Bradley 

Dubuque 
The Notre Dame Club of Dubuque held a din­ner meeting at the Bunker Hill Country Club on Tuesday, April 10th. The twenty-one members present voted in the folIo-.^-ing n«\* officers: REV. WILLIAM KUNSCH, President; JOSEPH OTT, Vice President; THOMAS CODY, Secretary-Treas­tirer. 
Louis A. Rhomberg, '31 

Eastern Illinois 
ITic Notre Dame Club of Eastern Illinois met on^ ^ Monday, April 2, 1956, at Danville, Illinois, for its annual banquet lo honor Universal Notre Dame night, and forty-eight alumni, their wives, and students attended. 
Highlight of the evening was the presentation of a scroll of honor to FR^VNK P. MEYER, '39, as the Club's "Notre Dame Man of the Year, 1955." Tlie presentation was made by LESLIE 
C. ILVHNE, JR., '49, retiring club president. New officers of the club were elected as follows: President, ROBERT MORRIS, '49; Vice-President,^n 
DONALD FIGEL. '44; Treasurer, reappointed.^-^ RALPH DALTON, '34, and Secretary, ROBERT 
E. AVICKHAM, '54. Retiring officers are Hahne as president and ED LAYDEN, '39, as Wce-presl­dent. The REV. C. B. MOTSETT, '33, is the club chaplain. 
JOHN BELTON, '34, announced plans for the 1956 bus tour to the ND-SMU football game and the evening was concluded with Paul Shcbby, Schlarman High School Athletic Coach, showing a film which highlighted the Notre Dame 1955 football season. 
R. E. \Vickham, Secy.­

CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA—^Luncheon sponsored by the alumni club for students included: (first row—h to r.) Steve Conway, Presi­dent of Central Pennsylvania Club, Robert Dunegan, '36, president of campus club, Don A. Schettig, chairman of the affair, and Edwin £. Slick, Foundation governor for Pennsylvania. 
Eastern Indiana 

The Notre Dame Chib of Eastern Indiana ob­^ served Universal Notre Dame Night vdih a dinner W'at Green Hills Comitry Club in Mimcie. 
Officers elected for 1956-57 were: JOHN MAR­HOEFER, JR., Munde, president; ^VILLIAM CRONIN, Hartford City, vice-president; RICHARD 

A. GREENE, secretary. The club saw motion pictures of the Notre Dame-Miami game of 1955. THOMAS A. CANNON, Munde. was appointed chairman of a committee to arrange a Communion Breakfast soon. The club -will hold a combination golf-bridge* ladies' day program at Hartford City Country Club June 20. Mx Members from Muncie, Hartford City and Dun­
kirk attended the ND Night program. Richard Greene 
El Paso 
During the past few months the Notre Dame Club of £1 Paso has had a sodally ambitious schedule. On Monday, February 13, JAIME AiORA hosted the club members and their wives at a dinner and party at the Cruz Blanca Brewery in Juarez, Mexico. 

_ On the 9th of March, Loretto Academy in El w 'Paso sponsored a lecture by Professor \VILLIS NUTTING of Notre Dame*s History Department. Prior to the lecture. Professor Nutting was honored with a cocktail party and dinner at the Interna­tional Club by the members of the Notre Dame Club and the sponsoring Parents Club of Loretto. The highlight of the year was the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet held on April 2 at the Del Camino Restaurant. Chairman for the event was GORMAN BROCK, with an able assist from the dub president, DICK SMITH. The guest speaker for the evening was athletic director ED 
# ) "MOOSE" KRAUSE, who travelled from Sunny South Bend (Ed. note: did you say "sunny*'?) into the midst of a true Texas "Norther" and sand storm to talk to the more than sixty alumni, wives and guests who turned out for the event. 
Tim Hanrahan, Secy. 
Eastern Kansos 
Director of athletics EDWARD KRAUSE was the featured speaker at the dub's Universal Notre Dame Night observance. At that time a check to the University of Notre Dame Foundation for $300 was presented to Krause. 
Elkhart 
Alumni, their wives and guests of the Elkhart Club obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner-meeting which featured a talk by HERB JONES, business manager of athletics at the University. 
Evansvllle 
On April 9, Evansville Club members and their wives obser\'ed "Universal Notre Dame Night" at the Sterling Rathskdlcr. Approximately 30 couples attended. 
The 1955 Man-of-the-Ycar award was presented to BOB HARGRAVE. ED KEMPF did a nice job on the presentation. A fine buffet luncheon, pre­pared by Mr. and Mrs. BOB LAMEY was served later in the evening. 
Officers elected for the coming year were: FRED DEWES, President; ED KEMPF, Vice President;, JOE TEMBORIUS, Secretary; ROBERT LONDER­GAN, Treasurer. 
—JOE TEMBORIUS, Secy. 
Flint 
Frank Manlcy was presented the club's "Man­of-the-Year" award at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting held at the Elks Club. About 200 persons attended the affair. Various speakers who praised Mr. Manley included George Stewart Mott, George V. Gundry, Walter E. Scott and the Rev. C.^ C. McHale. Club president ROBERT SIBIL­SKY presented the dtation to Mr. Manlcy as an outstanding Catholic layman. Father McHale was the featured speaker of the evening. He discussed the importance of spiritual influence in everyone's daily life. 
Toastmaster of the affair was Michael A. Gor­man, editor of the Flint Journal. Honorary mem­berships in the dub were given to state represen­tative Albert R. Horrigan, Edward G. Delehanty, 
F. A. -Bower and Mr. Gorman. Campus movies were also shown during the evening. 
Fort Lauderdale 
Newly elected officers are: President, JOHN SULLIVAN, '31; BOB GORE, JR., '31. Treasurer, and DICK \VHALEN. '42, Secretary. ^Ve tabulated the returns on our run-off for Vice-President and the vacancy has now been filled by GEORGE ERNST. 

We were most honored to have FATHER FEY­TON as our guest and he left the entire member­ship very moved by his inspiring words. 
On Thursday, Kfarch 8th, 1956, we hdd a regu­lar monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, which, this month, was open to wives and guests. Our attendance, which totalled an even 62, is a pretty good indication of the draw­ing power of the film on Notre Dame's 1955 Foot­ball Highlights. Nevertheless, some of the credit for this turnout must be given to the fact that we announced the special Governors' Club menu on our meeting notices. 
The feature of the menu was a man-sized hors d'ocuvre consisting of Rocky Motmtain Snake River trout, shipped directly to us for this meeting from BOB ERKINS, Snake River Trout Company in Buhl, Idaho. I am not much of a fish eater but I must admit that these were a real delicacy. This was followed up by a large serving of breast of Fort Lauderdale chicken. 
Other than a follow-up announcement on Notre Dame's State Convention at the Sea Ranch next month, no busmess wus transacted at this meeting. 
^Ve are happy to announce that we now have a permanent Chaplain who has promised that he will be in attendance at each and every meeting. His name is MSGR. GILES ALLAIS. 
Those attending wert: DR. BILL FANIZZI, '45; GEORGE GORE, '48, and wife; JIM EVERT. '48, and wife; DICK BAKER, '53, and wife; DICK SAVAGE, '54; FRANK McGINN. '52; BILL Mc-ALPINE, '53; TOM NOLAN, '44, and wife; BOB CONNESS. '31, and ^vife; JOHN SULLIVAN, '31, and wife; DICK ^VHALEN, '42. and wife; BOB GORE, '31: GEORGE ERNST, '29, and wife, and TED GORE, '50, and wife. 
Visiting Notre Dame men from other parts of the country, were: LEON J. "IKE" MOES, '26, from Minneapolis, ^fiI:n., and ^rife, and FRANK ROMANO, '49 and '50. and wfe. 
As guests Ave were pleased to have the following: Mr. and Mrs. G. G. Rowell of LIncoInwood, 111.; Mr. and Mrs. John Szarek, Chicago; Mrs. Neil Patterson, Grosse Pointe, ^fich.; Mr. and Ifrs. Jack Hughes; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Hartney; G. C. Smith; E. Brightbill, Washington, D. C ; Walt Dyer, Fort Lauderdale; and Mrs. Fred Ernst, Homewood, III. 
In addition to the Football Highlights film. Bob Erkins sent along a film sho\ring the complete operations of his trout farm in Buhl. 
—DICK WHALEN 

Notre Dame AlumnxtSy June-July^ 2956 27 
Fort Wayne 

' On April 10 ihc club held its annual Universal Noire Dame Nigiit banquet at the Fort Wayne Country Club. Professor FR/\N'K O'MALLEY of the Department of English was the guest speaker. He gave a very interesting talk on the University's efforts and progress to continually improve the academic prograni at Notre Da:uc and described the results a^iievcd to date by mentioning the numb;:r of national scholarships that arc being currently received by some of the students. The "Man-of-the-Year"' award was presented to CLIF­FORD B. WARD, '23, the editor-in-cliicf of tiie Fort Wayne News-Sentinel, for his inspiring and 
outstanding contribution of Christian ethics to public opinion /\bout 75 alumni, wives and friends were present to enjoy the program and banquet tliat was arranged bv DICK DOERMER assbtrd by BOB DEBREY, JOHN SCHAFER, J.\CK SOSENHEIMER and JOHN PALMER. 
The club held a mceiing and smoker in Fcbru­ar>* at the Cenilivre Brewing Company social room. FoUowing a sliort business meeting. JIM KEEFER and ED DEHNER, co-clialrmcn of tlie entertain­ment, introduci-d Hartley McLeon, Jerry Flciiry and Eddie Long of the Fort \Vayne Komcts hockey team. They spent the rest of the evening leading a ver>­interesting dbcussioa on the sport of hockey. 
On March 11 thirty members of tJie club at­tejidcd the annual Day of Rcccllectlon held at Sacred Heart Seminar\- and conducted by Father Lester, tlie club rjiaplain and Superintendent of Central Catholic High School in Fort Wa>*nc. The 
jcredit for organizing this vcr\* fine spiritual meet­ing goes to GERRY PUTNAM. —BOB KLINGENBERGER, Secy. 
Georgia 
The REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., %vas the fc-.tur^ speaker at the club's Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner on April 7. Rev. V. P. Brennan, principal of Marlst College, was chosen to receive the "Man-of-the-Year" award. HARRY MEHRE served as Toastmaster of the dinner which was held at the .\ilanla Athletic Club. TIic Club announced the establishment of a $500 sciiolarship for a dcscn'Ing student from Georgia. WILLL\.M H. RICKE has already been named Sciiolarship Chairman, and his committee will an­nounce the recipient later in May. Father Joyce complimented the club for its progressive action on the Scholarship Fund. 
—EDWARD J. MAGNER, Sec. 

Grand Rapids 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C, Asso­ciate Director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the Club's principal speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night. Outgoing Pr.-ident JOE MOORE was named "Man-of-lbL-Year"' !>y tlie Club mem­bers. The affair was held at the Ca-^cadc Hills Countrj- Club. J. THOMAS CAMPBELL was general chairman for the cv-ent. 
New officers elected are as follows: President. CHARLES W. DUFFY; Vice-President, FR.\NCIS 
J. GEARY; Secretans DANIEL KOZAK and Treasurer, JOH.V DEEB. Directors Include DANIEL KOZ.\K, JOHN DEEB and JAMF^ NACIFTEGALL. 
Green Bay 
0\'cr 130 mrmbt'rs and friends of the Notre Dame Alumni Club <ti Green Bay celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame night at Manci's Supper Club on Monday .Xpril 9th. 
Professor WALTER M. U\NGFORD, head of the department of modern languages at Notre Dame, wis the princ'pal speaker. lie reviewed campus life at Notre Dame during the past thirty years and urged local leadership by the Notre Dame men in the community. 
The Schmitt Brothers, nationally famous barber­shop quartet from Two Rivers, Wisconsin was well received by the hucc throng in attendance. 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN, JR., was the recipient of^ thr, "Man-of-the-Yrar" award. I le received this award because of his outstanding devotion to his family and to the Chrl'^tian principles which ho displaj-s dally. 
Harrisburg 
The Harrisburg Club ^\*as happy to cooperate in the Loca! Leadership theme and our speaker for the UND Night dinner at the West Shore Country Club was Honorable G. FRANKLIN 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
Joseph J. Sullivan. '02 (left), oldest living former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago during the year 1911, receives an engraved gavel of office from James Thomas Foley, '52 (right), during ceremonies honoring former presidents of the Club at the Chicago Club's observance of the 33rd .Annual Universal Notre Dame Night held in the Boulevard 
Room of the Sheraton Hotel on Monday, .Vpril 16, 1956. .* 
McSORLEY, Chairman of tlic Pennsylvania Turn­pike Commission. REV. FR.\NCIS A. KIRCH­NER, club cliaplain, ofIici.atcd as toastmaster and President JOHN" W. D.WIS presented the "itan­of-the-Ycar" aivard to EDW.ARD R. ECKEX­RODE, JR., Mfi. 
The Nominating Committee has proposed the re­election of the following officers. President, JOHN 
W. D.WIS; Wee Prcs., (Harrisburg) WILLIANt A. O'CONNOR; Vice Pres., (Lancaster) JE,\N A. HUTZ; Vice Pres., (York) JOIL\ R. SINKO­\ITZ; Secrclar>-. J. R. GRAH.\M; Treasurer 
E. R. ECKENRODE. JR. —J. R. GRAHAM, '26, Secj-. 
Hawaii 
Forty-seven members and friends of the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii attended a dinner-meeting on Universal .Votre Dame Night and heard Most 
Rev. John J. Scanlan, Auxiliary- Bishop of Hono­
h:lu, speak on the "Responsibility of Catholic 
Education in America Today." 
Father Robert Mackey, President of St. LouN Junior College, also spoke and HARRY MEDEI­ROS, '47, was named president of the club. 
—BILL HANIFLX, *33, Scc>-. 

Hiawathaland 
The club enjoyed a Univers.il Notre Dame Night dinner-meeting which featured Professor ^VALTER UNGFORD from the Notre Dame faculty as guest speaker. The guests at the affair included wives of the alumni. 
Houston 
REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., Vice-Presi­
[ dent of Academic Affairs at the University, was 9,;uest speaker at the Club's Universal Notre Dame 
' Night Dinner on April 5. Held at the River Oaks Country Club the occasion u-as enjoyed by 200 alumni and wives and other guests. THOMjVS STANDISH ser\*ed as chairman for the dinner. The Rev. Conleth Overman, C.P., founder and rector of the Holy Name Retreat House, was noin^d to receive the club's "Man-of-lhc-Ycar" award. 
.Indianapolis 
The Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on Thursday, April I2th, at the Athenaeum. It was a very successful evcnins, and one cf the largest crowds was in attendance. 
J.\CK ELDER, of the 1929 national champion­ship team, was general chairman, and BOB KIRBY was the toa.':tma.;ter. The distinguished guests were His ExcellcncN' -Archbisliop Schulte, and His Honor, Mayor Bayt, of Indianapolis, eacli of whom spoke briefly. 

^j TERRY BRENN.XN was the principal speaker, 
'and did an excellent job. He pointed out again that the sports program at Notre Dame, particu­larly football, is rcicgaled to its proper place in the overall training program. He did say that he believed that football was an excellent training for leadership, and those who participated in the contact sports seemed to be natural leaders in later life. 
Newlv elected ofHccrs for the coming vear are as follows: JAMES ROCvVP, JR., President; JOE FITZGERALD, Vice President: ROBERT F. COURTNEY, Corresponding Secretar>-: and DICK 

#,OWE.\S, Treasurer. 
New directors clcctt-d are: BOB MOY.NAHAN. EDWARD CUNNINGHAM and BILL HOLL.\ND, SR. 
Tommy Moran, a senior at Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, received the annual scholar­ship award from lh= club. 
The climax of the evening was the awarding of the annua! "Man-of-the-Year" award to GEORGE BISCHOFF, Class of '25, whose contributions to the civic and social field arc so numerous, it is difficult to single out any particular accomplish­ment. He has ser\'cd on the Board of Directors 

j-j of the Indianapolis Commimlty Chest. He has 
•^ ocen a member of the Catholic Charities Bureau of the Intiianapolis Archdiocese for seven years. He has served for six years on the B<iard of Di-
COLUMBUS—.Man of the Year and retiring p t>vo club members, John W. Gordon (left) and 
DALL.\S—New officers of the alumni club were installed at the Universal Notre Dame Night obsLT\ancc held on .April 5. Seated (left to right): J. M. Reichenstein, Jr., newly installed president; Terry Brcnnan, guest speaker; Father Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., guest speaker; and Arthur T. Simpson, Man of the Year recipient. Standing (left to right): Will Kirk, treasurer; William A. Grady, first vice-president; Hal Tehan, secretary; and AV'illiam Lajoie, second vice-president. 
rectors of the IndLinapoIIs Deanery Catholic Youth 
Organization. He u-as a charier member of the 
local Serra Club, serving one year as its President. 
He has made a significant contribution to this 
gri'up by composing a Servers Prayer which haj 
been diitrUnilt-d tiiroughout the country. He has 
truly been a worthy recipient of ilie "Man-of-tiic-
Ycar" jward. 
—DICK McC\LLEY 

resident John R. Murphy (center) poses with Harry Ncster, at UND Night dinner meeting. 
Jackson 
.-Vlumni, their wives and guests totaling 115 people listened to TOM KING, Dean of Men at Michigria State University and a Notre Dame alumnus, speak on alumni leadership at the club's UND Night meeting. Officers for the ensuing vear were installed. Thev are JOHN LI.N'DBERG, president; TIIO.MAS BENEDICT, vice-president: JUSTIN TOMPKINS, treasurer; and EDWARD COLBERT, 5ecrctar>-. 
Notre Dame "Man-of-the-Year" scrolls were pre­sented by BUMR McGOW.VN, retiring club presi­dent, to CHARLES G. DONAHUE and W. KEITH McINALLY who had served as co-chair­men of the successful Merc>' Hospital Fund Drive. JOH.N DESNOYER was chairman of the UND Night meeting. 
The Notre Dame Club of Jackson recently con­tributed an unrestricted gift of §200 to the Notre Dame Foundation. The gift was authorized by vote of the members at the ^farch 5 meeting. 
The club has planned to have five meetings for the year including UND Night, a stag, a picnic, football trip and Communion Breakfast. 
—ED COLBERT, Secy. 

Jolief 
Assistant Coach ^^'iLLIAM FISCHER was the Club's guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner on April 3. FRANCIS DUNN served as Toastmaster, and the invocation was given by REV. F.\BIAN DONL.\N, club Chap­lain. 
Kalamazoo 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the guest speaker at the club's annual Uni­versal Notro Dame Night observance. 
Kankakee Valley 
The club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting was held on April 8 with a dinner at the Cliff House in Bradley. It was a tremendous success with more than 60 people being present. Pro­fessor JOHN J. BRODERICK of the University's Law School represented Notre Dame and was prindpal speaker for the evening. Other talks were given by FATHER BURNS, club chaplain, and president M.\YNARD BISSONNETFE. ED BEINOR did an outstanding job as toastmaster for the evcnins. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 29 
Kansas City 
ED KRAUSE, director of athlclics at the Uni­versity, was the club*s principal speaiccr on Univer­sal Notre Dame Night which was held April 7. 
Kentucky 
Members and guests of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at the Oak Room of the Seelbach Hotel in downtown Louis\'UIe, Officers for the coming year were announced. JOE HARMON was re-elected presJdcntj PAUL MALONEY, first vice-president; TOM BULLEIT, second vice-presi­dent; BILL PALAiER, secretary; BILL KELLY, treasurer; and PIERRE ANGERMEIER and OTTO MILETI to the Scholarship Committee. Pierre .\ngcnnejer \v-as presented with the "Man-of-the-Year" a^v-ard. The Club was priwleged to have Alumni Secretary- JIM ARMSTRONG as guest speaker. Music for dancing was provided by Irvin Stcmmlc and his musicians. Thanks for a very enjovable evening are due to Chairman DAVE SCHOEN and assistants PAUL ALiLONEY and LOUIS NICOULIN. 
—PILL PALMER, Scc>-. 

LaCrosse 
The Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Nlghl featuring movies from tlie campits on April 9. Coach JOHN MICHUTA, former Irish star foot­ball player, and his Aquinas football squad were guests of the club that evening. The meeting was held in Heileman's Hospitality Room. New officers for this year are as folloivs: President, HENRY C. FUNK; Vice-Prcs., JOSEPH D. BECKER; Secre­tary, JAMES L. KRONER; and Treasurer, GER­ALD A. HEBERLEIN. 
Los Angeles 
The club enjoyed one of Its finest Universal Notre Dame Night celebrations on April 5. 
The meeting took place at the Los Angeles Athletic Club in their beautiful dining room, where the past president, DR. LEO TURGEON, turned over the meeting to GEORGE MEEKER, the new president. 
The program was opened by FATHER LYNCH, C^.C , who gave the invocation. Jimmy Burke, prominent television and movie star, acted as Master of Ceremonies, and was accompanied in the entertainment by several Hollyivood personali­ties supplied by "JUDGE" CARBERRY. 
Father Lynch presented the "Man-of-the-Ycar" award to LEO WARD who has been very active In the National Notre Dame Foundation for a good number of years. Unfortunately, Leo was in Mexico on business at the time of the presenta­tion and DICK ^VHITE received the a^^•ard in his absence. 
FIO LOPARDO, a Los Angeles attorney, and a recenl graduate, was Program Chairman for the evening and spent a great deal of time making the arrangemciits for this program. 
The speaker fof iJie dV-tnirig was Louis Fuller, who Is Dil-eclor of Enforcement of the Air Pollution Control District. He spoke on the smog situation and enforcement of same in Los Angeles County, a topic ^vhlch is of vital importance and at this time extremely Interesting to all people in this locality. Incidentally, he mentioned that he had been a Notre Dame Fan for years, dating back to his schooling at Northwestern University. 
Other personalities present were BROTHERS ANTHONY and CARLOS, C.S.C., from Rancho San Antonio (the Boys* Town of the West) and 
SOUTHWESTERN CON'NECTICUT—Joseph P. McNamara, Man of the Year, is con­gratulated by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., principal speaker at a statewide Universal Notre Dame Night dinner, sponsored by the Southwestern Connecticut Club. 
GENE KENNEDY, newly elected NaU'onal Alumni 
Director.  m  
—GEORGE  R. MEEKER,  ~  
President  

Miami 
As the ALUMNUS is getting ready for tlie press, a brief report Is hereby submitted of the club's Uni%'ersal Notre Dame Night. Alumni secretary JIM ARMSTRONG was the principal speaker and the event was held at the Shelborne Hotel on April 19. 
—DAN ROWXANDS, Secy. ^ 

Michigan City 
DR. WILLUM MILLER BURKE, of the Notre Dame faculty, ^vas featured speaker at the UND Night dinner meeting held on April 21. DR. ROBERT FROST served as toastmaster. Honored guests Included MAYOR FEDDER of Michigan City, JUDGE KOMINAREK and JUDGE SMITH of Laporte. ROBERT McBRIDE was chairman of the entertainment committee. Approximately 50 persons attended the meeting. -^B 
Milwaukee 
Professor >VALTER LANGFORD, head of the Modern Languages Department at Notre Dame, was guest speaker at the club's UND Night meeting held recently. Abo, honored guests at the affair included director of athletics LARRY MULLINS and the new football coaching staff at Marquette. 
Musitegon 
REV. THOAUS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Associate Director ot the Notre Dame Foundation, W3S principal speaker at the Club's Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner held in the Cottage Inn. LEO 
L. LINCK was named "Man-of-the-Year" by mem­bers of the Club. Other special guests included ALLAN POWERS, Area Director for the Notre Dame Foundation and C. M. VERBIEST of De­troit, State Governor of the Foundation. 
tirx officers are as follows: President, JOSEPH KEUSCH; Vice-Pres., FRANK OELHOFFEN; Secretary, LEO L. LINCK and Treasurer, WIL­LIAM TARDANI. j ^ 
Nashville 
Nashville alumni, their wives and guests at­tended a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner meeting which featured JIM ARMSTRONG, Alum­ni Secretary', as principal speaker. Arrangements were in charge of TOM ^VALL. 
New Hampsiiire 
About 330 alumni and friends listened to REV. ^ THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., on the 9 occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night, in Dover, 
N. H. Tliose In attendance came from New Hamp­shire, Vermont and Maine. The banquet was held In City Hall auditorium, in Dover. Asst. Atty-Gcn. JOSEPH GALL, of Concord, served as toast­master. Remarks were also made by Mayor THOMAS KEENAN, cf Dover; Most Rev. D.4NIEL 
J. FEENEY, Bishop of Portland; REV. PAUL McHUGH, of Manchester, representing Bishop Brady; CHARLES DURRELL, representing Gov. Lane Dwincll; DR. ELDON JOHNSON, president of the University of New Hampshire; and THOMAS ^ 
E. O'CONNELL, aide to Dartmouth president" John S. Dickey. ADAM AV'ALSH, football coach at Bowdcin and member of the Four Horsemen team, \%'as scheduled to be toastmaster but was forced to cancel because of Illness In his family. Mr. Keenan was general chairman; Adam Walsh served as State Chairman; and MAXIME GAUTH­lER and JUDGE E. G. McCLALLEN, JR., were In crharge of arrangements for X. D. sdumni. 
New Mexico 
The big news in the Land of Enchantment is the terri6c Universal Notre Dame Night obser^*­ancc which was held in Albuquerque on Thursday evening April 5t!i. Sharing the highlights of the cveiung dinner meeting at the Alvarado Hotel were un outstanding address by ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE and the rwarding of the Club's "Man­of-the-Ycar** a^tfard to CEC JORDAN, founder, fonner President and inspirational leader and member of the Club. 
Ed Krause's appearance and the hard work of the Committee under GEORGE (SKIP) SCHREI-
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 

Philadelphia 
, DENVER—^Ne^v officers are, left to right: Maurice Reidy, secretary; Arthur Gregory, presi­dent; Glcn Menhennett, vice-president; and Raymond Ristow, treasurer. 
BER'S direction combined to make this year's event the most successful yet. TOM FOY of Silver City and JIM JENNINGS of Roswell both made the near 300 mile trip to attend. Also among those who travelled to swell the ranks to over one hundred were BUSTER HILLER and AL ORTIZ of Santa Fe and PHIL LUCERO of Espanola- Of note, also, was the attendance of a number of 

y students home for Easter ^-acation and parents of students that joined us for the evening. 
Club Prcxy LOU LUJ^VN isn't content to be passively happy about UND Night but has already launched plans for a big summer meeting and get-together. So-o-o, we'll be seeing you at the next function the master comes up with. 
—\VILLUM P. ILVRVEY, Secy. 
New York City 

The Club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night ^ meeting was held at the Tap Room of Ruppcrt's W Brewery. REV. ARTHUR J. HOPE, C.S.C., headed a list of outstanding speakers including Supreme Court Justice JOHN L. FLYNN, Murray Vernon, chairman of the Board of Directors of Rup­pcrts, REV. ALFRED MENDE2, C.S.C., JOSEPH 
M. BYRNE, JR., and Coach HUGH DEVORE of the Philadelphia Eagles. 
\\TLLI.\M H. FALLON was selected as the Club's "Man-oI-thc-Year" for 1956. Presentation of the award was by ^rayo^ GEORGE VERGAR/\ of New Rochelle. The Universal Notre Dame Night meeting was dedicated to the memory of 
^^KNUTE ROCKNE. GUS HARDART ser\cd as ^ 'general chairman of the celebration. 
Justice Flynn told the audience of \-arious Notre Dame personalities in this country and in foreign lands. He described with great interest the accidental meeting he had with FATHER HES­BURGH in Ireland several years ago. He also narrated many highlight features concerning the late Knutc Rockne. 
Northern California 
^ ) The REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., was featured speak-r at the Club's Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner on April 5. The meeting was held in the University Club and was preceded by a social hour. The "Man-of-the-Year'' a\vard ^vas given to JOSEPH RUETZ, assistant football coach at Stanford Universi^* and star on the Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team. 
North Florida 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\'ed in Jacksonville on Monday, April ' I6th at a dinner party held at the Green Turtle Restaurant. Ap­proximately 100 members and friends of Notre Dame heard JIM ARMSTRONG give the prin­cipal address. DICK BRODEUR, president of the club, presided and CHARLIE MOUCH, who served as chairman of the event, was master of ceremonies. 

BILL KIRCHNER, our vice president, re­

linquished his membership upon his transfer to 
Newark, N. J. His continuous efforts as president, 
vice president, and very active member will be 
sorely missed. 
—JOHN F. CORRIGAN 

Ohio Valley 
The club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a meeting which featured football movies sent from the campus. 
Oklahoma City 
The club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting was held on April 25 at the Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club. About 150 alumni and friends attended the affair and listened to JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, of Midland, Texas, as guest speaker. Joe is national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Mr. John Layden, a non-alumnus friend of the Univer.jity ^vho has had two sons at Notre Dame, was chosen to receive the "Man-of­the-Year" a^vard. Mr. Layden is a la\\-\'er with offices in McAlester, Oklahoma. He has been active in affairs of the Catholic Church, political and business organizations. 
An honored guest of the evening was Bishop NfcGuinncss, one of Notre Dame's Io>'al friends in thi= area. WALTER DUNaVN scn,cd as chair­man of the dinner. 
—ED KAVANAUGH 

Oregon 
The Notre Dame Club of Oregon had a social hour and dinner at the Rose Room of the Univer­sity Club in Portland with more than fifty attend­ing. The following members were elected to ofHce: HUGH V. L.\CEY, JR., '45, President; PHILIP R. MEANEY, '50. Vice President; PETER 
F. SANDROCK, '39, Secretary; MORRISON A. CONWAY, JR., '53, Treasurer; ARTHUR B. BUTINE, '21, Director; and ROBERT S. HE.4LY, '53, Director. WILLLVM C. MEAGHER, '48, ex-president, will continue to sen"e as a member of the board. 
—^VILLIA^I C. MEAGHER The club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting' 

was held at the Cherry Hill Inn and featured 
REV. ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C.. University repre­
sentative, as principal, weaker. Among other 
notable and honored guests was HUGUIE DE­
VORE, the new head coach of the Philadelphia 
Eagles. JOHN MOREHEAD served as chairman 
of the affair. 
WALT GROTHAUS has arranged a fine program 
for the club's late spring picnic to be held at the 
Main Line Country Club on June 14. Manager-
coach JACK DEMFSEY is roundin? up softball 
players for a Notre Dame team to play in the 
College Alumni League. 
Co-chairmen WALT RIDLEY and CHARLIE 
CONLEY of the football raffle committee have an­
nounced that the top prize is an all-expense trip 
for two to the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game. 
—HAROLD E. DUKE 

Phoenix 
The aanual Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix was held on March 4tfa this year. The Mass was celebrated by The Most Reverend Francis J. Green, Auxiliary Bishop of Tucson, at the new St. Theresa's Parish. Break­fast folIcA^ing, was held at the Paradise Valley Country Club where the members were guests of AL FICKS. This breakfast Is an annual affair for Al who is one of our most active members. 
The following weekend members of the club 
attended a retreat at the Franciscan Retreat House 
—Casa de Paz Y Bien. Chairman of this event 
was Art Erra. 
On April 4th, Universal Notre Dame Night was 
held with ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE as the guest 
speaker. The program W3S arranged by BOB 
KENDALL and JOHN JOYCE wth the further 
assistance of GEORGE ALWKHAM, GEORGE 
WALSH and JACK SCHOUTEN. The dub presi­
dent, GENE HOESGHLER, presented the Notre 
Dame "Man-of-ihe-Year" award to BOB KEN­
DALL. 
—E. V. O'AULLEY, JR., Secy. 

PiHsburgh 
One hundred and fifty Pittsburgh alumni, their wives and friends, gathered at the Gate^ii-ay Plaza to honor G. FRANKLIN AfcSORLEY, '25, as Notre Dame "Man-of-the-Year" and hear one of its o^vn native sons, REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, CS.C , Dean of the Arts and Letters College^ 
Under the able chairmanship of LARRY SMITH, assisted by HUGO lACOVETTI and EARL BRIEGER, this year's event was one of the most successful Jn the history of the Pittsburgh Club. Following a cocktail party and banquet. Toast­master HARRY STUHLDREHER presented the "Man-of-the-Year" au-ard for 1956 to G. Franklin McSorley, '25, prominent Pittsburgh financier and Chairman of the Pennsylvania Turnpike Com­mission. Tiic a^*i*ard was made more pleasurable for both Harry and Frank Inasmuch as both have been close personal friends since they first met on th- campus some thirty-five years ago. 
^Ve ^v•ere particularly favored this year by having as our guest of honor from the campus our native son. Father Charles E. Sheedy, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Father Sheedy gave us a first-hand report on the Academic Future of Notre Dame. Accompanied by his mother and his brother, JACK SHEEDY, Father Sheedy was able to meet and chat with his man/ friends and acquaintances In the club. 
Outgoing President EARL BRIEGER was awarded a plaque In recognition of his leadership for the past t^vc years. New officers for the comingtwo years are: LEO J. VOGEL, JR., President; PETER 
F. FLAHERTY, Vice-President; JAMES E. Mc-NULTY, Treasurer; JAMES E. McLAUGHLIN, Secretary. REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, who has served as our Chaplin for the past few years, was again installed in that office. 
Elected to the Board of Governors for 1957­1958 were: EARL BRIEGER, Chairman. WALTER 
J. MONACELU, JOHN B. REARDON, EUGENE 
J. COYNE, LA^VRENCE ENRIGHT. CHARLES 
E. CHRISTEN, ROBERT V. FULTON, EMMET 
D. GRIFFIN, and LAURENCE R. SMITH. —JIM KfcLAUGHUN 
Rhode Isiond 
The REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, CS.C., 
president of Notre Dame, was guest speaker at 
the club's annual UND Night observance. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, June-July, 2956 32 
Hio Grande Valley 
The Notre Dam; Club of Rio Grande Valle>­recently organized and elected DON S. CARILLO as president. A few weets later Club members were shocked to learn that Don vraz killed in a T-Nawgator Trainer aJr crash on Afarch 19 near the Dobbs Air Force Base. 
—RAYMOND A. \VOOD 
Rochester 
April 7th, 1956 was Universal Notre Dame Night in Rochester, N. Y. A large delegation of Notre Dame Alumni ^vith their wives attended a dinner dance at the University Club. HighUght of the affair WMS a speech delivered by Doctor ^VilIiam 
M. Burke of the Notr- Dame faculty. His talk on life at Notre Dame was received \s-ith great interest. 
ARNOLD B. MORRISON was named "Man­of-thc-Ycar" by llic Roclicstcr Alumni. Morrison was chosen bv former recipients of the award headed bv DICK SULLIVAN. 
JACK "and LILLIAN HEAGNY were in charge of the evening activities and did a wonderful job, ensuring everyone a vcr>' pleasant time. GERRY FLYNN did a fine job as toastmaster for the event. 
Several Notre Dame students altended the dance as guests of the Alumni. 
In the annual March meeting at the University Club, elections were held and the new club officers chosen, JACK N'YE DUFFY is the new President and his staff members include ERIC SCOTT, Vice President, BILL DEMPSEY Secretary, and JACK BURKE, Treasurer. Past President, AL. ROCHE was commended lor his fine work during the past year. New officers will continue the successful program. 
With the coming of the summer months, a golf tournament and dinner is being planned. Some of the local duffers headed by CR^RLEY O'BRIEN and TOM HIGGINS arc already training for the c\xnt. 
Several recent graduates now serving Uncle Sam were in Rochester over the Easter holidays. ENS. £D SCHICKLER reports he Is now stationed in Seattle and recently became engaged to Miss Maril>-n Blickwedc. ENS. ED DEMPSEY -was home on leave from a seaplane tender which recently returned after six months slay in the Persian Gulf. BILL CUSHMAN and his wUc Virginia paid us a \-isit on Universal Notre Dame Night. Bill is now living in Cle\'cland. 
FRANK F. OBERKOETTER has been appointed manager of the professional sensitized goods sales division of the Eastman Kodak Company. Frank has served for several years as technical adviser and sales correspondent in the sensitized sales di\-ision. 

—BILL DEAfPSEV, Secy. 

Rockford 
EDWARD \V. KRAUSE, director of athletics, represented the University and was guest speaker at the club*s Universal Notre Dame Night dinner-meeting. 
Rock River Valley 
Tlie Club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night was held oa April 4 at Jul's Farm. DR. TIM SULLIVAN received the Club's **Man-of-the.Ycar" award. Thomas J. Gughcrty of Ohio, Illinois was presented the Club's annual scholarship. About 75 members and their wives attended the dinner which was presided over by BOB AfcDONNELL. New officers elected for the year arc as follows: 
President, LUKE MORIN, (Dixon); Vicc-Pres-, PAUL LONG, tSteriing); Secretary, JOHN CAHILL, (Dixon); Treasurer, RAY DeCOURCEY, (Rochellc). 
JOE BITTORF, DON DEWEY, PAUL FRY, ED SULLIV/VN and McDONNELL were elected as members of the Board of Directors. Tlie award to Dr. SuUi\-an was presented by JUDGE ROBERT 
L. BRACKEN, the 1955 recipient. Actually the award was s^ven to Mrs. Sullivan since the doctor was called out of the meeting a few minutes before this part of the program was conducted. An interesting color motion picture of the campus was shove's to the group. 
Saginaw Valley 
Professor JOHN MALONE, head of the De­partment of Marketing at Notre Dame's College of Commerce, was guest speaker at the club's UND Night dinner on April 9. 
San Antonio 
The San Antonio Notre Dame Alumni Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 10, 1956, in the Anacacho Room of the St. Anthony Hotel. JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, national president of the Alumni Association, was the guest speaker. He informed local members of Notre Dame's pro­gram of educational facilities and faculty im­provements. He incorporated the theme of local 
DES MOINES—^Don Schaefer, Irish Ail-American fullback of 1955, was guest speaker at the club's St. Patrick's Day party. Left to right: Dick Axkvmght, Andy McConnack, Schaefer, Bob Ticman and Bob Cannon. 
leadership in i Very liiieresting talk. Wc were honored to have him. 4 
MIKE CONLEY, *49, received the Notre Dame'^ "Man-of-the-Year" award. The presentation was made by Father A. Matthew, O.M.I.» former chap­lain and close friend of the club. Mike was cited for his exemplary work as a teacher and director of program for elementary grade boys at the Alt. Sacred Heart Academy, here in San Antonio. Alike Conley has made an excellent example of himself, here in San Antonio, of the kind of "^Vholc Man" which Our Lady's School strives to produce. He is a credit to Notre ^ Dame for the influence he is rendering. ^ 
Wc were honored by the presence of six local clergy, including the newly appointed Auxiliary Bishop Stephen A. Leven of San Antonio. 
JOHN VAUGHAN was program chairman for the affair; RALPH STRUHS, LEONARD HESS, and CHARLES BLOMFIELD were committeemen to select "Man-of-the-Year.*' BILL LAMM looked after the financial matters, and yours truly pre­sided. 
—JESSE B. POSTON, President 

* San Diego 
HARRY MONAHAN, JR., '50, was elected president of San Diego alumm on Alarch 19 in a meeting at the home of retiring president, G. R. BILL, 29, who becomes a member of the board of directors for the coming year. In other election results JOHN B. SULLIVAN, '48, was reelected \-ice president; FRANCIS J. DAVIS, *48, treasurer; THOMAS J. CARTER, "51, secretary; RT. REV. MSGR. FRANCIS C. OTT, '17, reelected chap­lain; LT. GEN. FRANaS P. MULCAHY, '14,^ member of the board. 
In addition to the new officers, the following were F^'^^'At at the election meeting: JOHN J. McCLAREN, '29; L. DONALD LOPKER, '35; aMDR. JOHN J. .McINTYRE, '40; UGO D. ROSSI, '42; PHIUP P. MARTIN, JR., '45; RICHARD N. MARTIN, *45; \\\ R. VANGEN, '49. 
Jerry Bill concluded his presidential term as general chairman of the very successful second annual Appreciation Night banquet on Feb. 11, co-sponsored by St. Augustine High School and the Notre Dame Club of San Diego. More than 600 ^ attended this testimonial for the high school coaches 9 and administrators of San Diego County. 
Oklahoma Football Coach Bud Wilkinson was the principal speaker and Duane Maley of San Diego High School was named county football "Coach of the Year" for bringing San Diego its first Southern California prep gridiron champion* ship. 
With the annual election delayed by club partici­pation in Appreciation Night, San Diego obser\*ance of Universal Notre Dame Night was not held untn April 22. PHILIP P. AURTLN, JR., '45. was named "Man-of-thc-Year" at the banquet. 
REV. JOSEPH N. STADLER, diocesan super-0 intendcct of schools, v»-as the principal speaker at ' the event held at Secret Harbor restaurant where a Continental buffet supper was served more than 40 alumni and guests. The 1955 football high­h'ghts film and Prof. ED FISHER's "Shake Down Tlie Thunder" documentary- were shown. 
In new committie appointments Vice President SuIIi%'an will head a job placement group which will attempt to assi&t San Diego students at Notre Dame with summer employment: Treasurer Davis heads the finance committee; RICHARD N. MAR­TIN, '45, and Secretary Carter will decide on a ^ Notre Dame Club iwurd to be presented a scuiorW 
athlete nt St. Augustine High School.  
The  tentative  summer  program  calls  for  Com­ 
munion Breakfast In June; beach party in July; and picnic in September. —HARRY MONAHAN, President  I'  
Schenectady  
Professor  ^ViUiam M. Burke,  student  counselling  V  

director at Notre Dame, represented the University^y i , and was guest speaker at the club's annual meeting'^ I on Universal Notre Dame Night. ^ 
South Jersey 
The Notre Dame Club of South Jersey cele­brated the 34th annual Universal Notre Dame Night on Tuesday, April 10, with a well attended dinner meeting at Kenney's Restaurant in Cam­den. Former Notre Dame Coach HUGH DEVORE, now head coach of the professional Philaddphia 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 

DETROIT—New club officers are: seated (left to right) Edw-ard Gage, vice-president; James Byrne, president; William Roney, Jr., vice-president. Standing (left to right) Joseph Carey, treasurer; and Dan Bradley, secretary. 
•^ Eagles, was the principal speaker. Coach Devore stressed the need for a stronger scholarship policy to attract bo^-s of high calibre to Notre Dame. He also paid a fine tribute to KNUTE ROCKNE as an orator and a man. 
Toastmastcr for the affair was AMBROSE F. "BUD" DUDLEY, Athletic Director at Villanova Univeraty. 
Introductions wore made by outgoing President FRANK E. VrrrORI, '49, who also installed the ofiicers for the coming year. The new olHcers arc: President, MATT J. CAMPANELLA, '49; 

-Vice Pres., FRANCIS J. McADANJS, '51; Sec'y­
• Treas., JAMES A. ^^'EBB, '48; Chaplain, REV. JOSEPH .M. HAYDEN, '44; Directors: JOHN C. MURPHY, '49, FRANK E. VnTORI, '49, and THO.MAS AUCHTER, '50. 
VriTORI was a'-so named as the Notre Dame "Man-of-the-Ycar" by the club. ^VEBB presented a plaque to VITTORI as recipient of the award. ^VEBB also headed the committee on arrangements. 
The club offers its condolences to FATHER HAYDEN upon the recent death of his father. —JOHN C. MURPHY 

^ South Carolina 
The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., E.tccutive 

; Vice-President of the University, was the featured speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting held in Aiken, South Carolina. ED DxMLY, Green\-i]Ie, was in charge of arrangements. 
' Spokane 
%ti | The Club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting 
I -^ was held at the Davenport Hotel. JAMES H. 
I LYNCH, '40, was named as "ManKif-the-Year." New officers are as follows: President, EDWARD 
J. BETHKE; Vicc-Pres., M. PATRICK J. KENNY, 
S.J.; Sec.-Trcas., FRANK H. HERRON. —FRANK J. HAGENBARTH 
St. Joseph Volley 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley obsencd Universal Notre Dame Night on April 

» 
16 vi.*ith a talk by REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. The event was held in the Morris Inn and was attended by a capacity crowd of 130 alumni and guests. Outgoing President ROBERT LEHMAN presided as Toastmastcr for the program. He also received a gift from the Club for his imtlring efforts ia successfully serving as president during the past year. 
Alumni in this area who were spotlighted for the local leadership included PAUL M. BUTLER, National Democratic Chairman; JEROME J. CROAVLEY, JR., member. Advisory Council of the College of Commerce; JOSEPH DONAHUE, mem­ber, University Associate Board of Lay Trustees; ALBERT DOYLE, Mayor, City of Mishawaka; GEORGE EICHLER, President, St. Joseph County Bar AssociaU'on; F. GERARD FEENEY, President, St. Joseph Crippled Children Society; AARON HUGUENARD, member, Adwsory Council of the College of Law; ALBERT AfcGANN, 1956 Recipient of Brotherhood Award, N.C.CJ.; GUY McMICH-AEL, Chapter Chairman, American Red Cross; JOHN A. SCOTT, President. South Bend Asso­dation of Co'jamerce; BERNARD J- VOLL, mem­ber, Univenity Associate Board of Lay Trustees; EDWARD VOORDE, Mayor, City of South Bend. JOHN E. McINTYRE, First Vice-President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association received the Club's "Man-of-thc-Ycar" award for 1956. HARRY KOEHLER received a special award for his efforts as general chairman of the Notre Dame Founda­tion Drivr held last year. ROBERT HOLMES was scneral chairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. CHET GRANT, honorary president installed new ofHcers for the coming year as follows: 
President, WILLIAM GIBBONS; Vice-Pres., DON FISHER; Secretary-, JOHN N. CACKLEY; Treasurer, RICHARD CLE.VRY. 
AL McGANN gave a brief report on the Club's Scholarship Fund. 

One hundred twenty-five attended the Annual Rockne Communion Breakfast held in the Morris Inn on March 25. TOM CONLEY, of Chicago, captain of Notre Dams^s '30 football team, and HERB JONES, business manager of Athletics at Notre Dame, were principal speakers. FATHER TOM BRENNAN celebrated the Mass in DUlon Hall Chapd Cor those who later attended the BreaUast. BOB CAHILL served as Ibster of Cerei>*omes. Co^chaiiman were Cahill and Caddey. 
St. Louis 
This year our spring general meeting was held oa Fdi. 6, at the Anheuser-Busch Brewery. Our guest and speaker for the meeting was ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. Moose gave us a ntber complete coven^c of the sports activities at the University along with the showing of the Football Highlights of the 1955 season. The general arrange­ments for this meeting were handled by chairman, JIM JENNEWEIN and his committee of: BOB DOUGHERTY, BILL RUOFF and NORM KfUEL-LER. DR. MATT WEIS* hospitality made Moose feel very much at home while in our city. Those people who were imable to see Moose at the meeting were able to sec him over TV or hear him over the radio as he made an appearunce on television and ^v*as heard over two other radio stations. ANTHONY F. DORIXY class of 1900, one of our oldest members died in January of this year after a long illness. The new directors that were elected this year to serve a four year term: PAUL FEHLIG, DAN SULLIVAN, JIM JENNE­\VEIN and DEWEY GODFREY. Three vacandes on the board were filled by the appointment of the fo11o\v'ing to the board by the directors; CHARLES L. KARRIS, BILL TOBIN and BEN GERKER. DR. BILL GILLESPIE, Chairman of the scholarship committee announced that the winner of this year's au-ard is: Paul Becker of Cathedral School In Belleville, Illinois. This year Universal Notre Dame Night was observed en April 10, at the Coronado Hotel. ROLAND DAMES chairman and JACK GRIFFIN were responsible for this fine affair. Our guest speaker ^^ras Mr. PAUL M. BUTLER, Cba^nnaa of the Democratic National Committee and a member of the dass of 1927 at the University. Mr. Botler spoke to the 175 alumni and friends of Notre Dame on: "The Responsibilities of the College Gradux'te In Politics." Many fine comments were received by the dub on this excellent program that was presented. On April 5, the dub spon­sored a luncheon at the Sheraton-Jefferson Hotd for the visiting priests from the University who were In our town attending a convention. FATHERS KENNA, (President, University of Portland), SHEEDY. BEICHNER. DOHERTY and BAUER honored us with their presence. There were 24 present at this luncheon. 
An added attraction of Universal Notre Dame Night was the presenting of the dub's '"Man-of­the Year" award to: RICHARD a MUCKERMAN. Mr. Muckennan was given this award for his leadership in religious, dvic and industrial aff:urs la the dty of St. Louis. This award was pre­sented by FRED McNEILL last year's award win­ner. 
The new ofHcers of the dub for the coming vcar: DONALD A. DOHENY, President; JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR., Sec-Treas.; CHARLES L, FAR­RIS, Vice-President in charge of Public Relations; PAUL FEHLIG, '\ace-President in charge of com­mittees and DANIEL J. SULLIVAN, Vice-President in charge of Activities. Our annual picnic &3s year will be held on May 30, at Ivanhoe Lodge in Kirkwood, Missouri. TOM McGUIRE will be chairman for this affair and his committee will be Malcolm Dooley and Dan Sullivan. In early August we will have our first dub golf toomey at Norwood Hills Country Chib. LOU FEHLIG is making the arrangements for this event the date of which will be announced at a later time. 
—JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR.. Sec-Treas. 

Tallahossee 
Universal Notre Dame Night was cdebrated by Tallahassee alumni and other friends of the Uni­versity with a meeting featuring a talk by Alumni Secretary JAMES E. ARA!STRONG. 
Terre Haute 
The program for Universal Notre Dame Night for the Terre Haute Notre Dame Club began at 
5:30 P.iL at the home of Mr. and Mn. LOUIS KEIFER, SR., who invited alumni dub members and their guests for cocktails. Later the members and their guests went to the Terre Haute House for a dinner and ofHdal observance. 
Followng the dinner RAY KEARNS retiring president of the local chib Introduced the new officers for the cominti year: FRED CHRISTMAN, president; JOHN F. P. MURPHY, Vice President; JAMES BOYER, Secretary; CR^RLES W. METZ-
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 2956 33 
TERRE HAUTE—Professor James Dincolo ^^•as the University representative and guest speaker at the club's UND Night dinner. 
GER, Treasurer; REV. THO\£AS J. CULHANE, C^.C , Chaplain; DRUIE E. CAVENDER and RICHARD KELLEY, directors. 
Murphy •who was co-chairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner then introduced Pro­fessor James Dincolo, head of the accounting de­partment, College of Commerce at the University of Notre Dame. Professor Dincolo spoke on "Notre Dame, its Growth and Development." On completion of his address, Cavendcr announced that Ixmis F. Kdfcr was named "Man-of-the-Ycar** for the Terre Haute Notre Dame Club. Chiistman, incoming president closed the Universal Notre Diune Night Obscrv-ance with a brief out­line of the Club program for the coming year. 
—JAMES BOYER, Sec 

Toledo 
REV. JOH.V AV.ALSH, C.S.G., member of the Notre Dame faculty, was guest speaker at the club*5 annual Communion Breakfast held on April 29. 
Tri Cities 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Tri-Citics, at the annual meeting of the organization held at the Blackhawk Hotel Sunday morning, elected new officers for tlie coming year. They are: EMMETT KEENAN, (Davenport) President; GEORGE HARBERT, (Rock Island) Vice-Presi­dent; and CARL LIEBSCHER (Davenport) Secrc­tai^'-Tr-Esurcr. Directors named were ^^^LLIAM BOLLAERT of SiK-is; JAMES GALLIC AN and LEO HERBERT of Rock Island; GEORGE VAN­DERVENNET of Davenport, and HENRY ^\TJR­ZER, Bcttcndorf. 
Prindpal speaker of the meeting was REV. JOSEPH D. B.ARRY, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart Church on the campus of Notre Dame, who spoke of the development of the individual student during the college years. 
The meeting was preceded by Mass at Christ the King Chapel of St. Ambrose College and by breakfast in the Empire Room of the Hotd Blackhawk. 
—CARL A. LIEBSCHER, Secy. 

Triple Cities 
The REV. FRANK HARRISON »vas the dub's Universal Notre Dame Night spealcer. 
Tucson 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Tucson Club at a banquet held at the Varsity Room of the Pioneer Hotel on April 3, I95S. Honored guests were ED (MOOSE) 
34 Noire Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
KRAUSE, Director of .Athletics at the University, and RALPH GUGLIELMI. Former Irish AU­.American, now stationed at Marana Air Force Base, just outside Tucson. 
KENNETH J. BAYLY, club president, presided at the dinner meeting, which was attended by fifty Notre Dame men, their wives, and friends. Among those who attended were ELMER BESTEN, former N.D. baseball and basketball star, and DON HUML, former N.D. footballer and now coacli at Salpolnte High School in Tucson. 
Co-chairmen of the event were BAYLY and TIMOTHY KING. Plans were announced for the next meeting of the club in May and for another dinner to be held sometime during the summer. 
Other Notre Dame men attending the dinner were: CLIFF BLOOM, JAMES MURPHY, EDWARD LARKIN, DICK TRANT, CHARLES KE.\NEDY, MIKE SOPHIE. RON EITEL, PAT JONES, PHIL HARRIS, BOB 0*CALLAGHAN, STEVE REBEIL, CHRIS REILLY, and PAUL SCHRICHTE. 
—KEN BAYLY 

Tulsa 
.At our annual meeting held in January the following officers were elected for a two year term: ROBERT D. SHEEHAN, President; FRANK 
J. REIDY, Vice President; ROBERT D. MANNIX, Secretary; and LAAVRE-NCE A. SCHMIDT, Treas­urer. 
Approximately 550 members, students, and guests attended the Christmas dance this year, one of the most successful in our history. Also the Club held monthly Communion breakfast meetings in November and January. 
—R. F. SKEEHAN 

Twin Cities 
Professor JOHN BRODERICK, assistant dean of Notre Damc*s School of Law, was the club*s guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinuer. 
Virginia 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Virginia celebrated universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner meeting at Richmond's Hotel Jefferson. Attending were: DR. CHARLES R. RILEY, 'agj ROBERT A. SHEPPARD, '39; VICTOR O'G. DORR, '50; CIWRLES A. LaFRATTA, '47; ALBERT L. MOORE, '27; DR. FRANK R. KELLY, JR., '39; CHARLES M. MORRISON, '38; FRANCIS J. STUMPF, '44; J. GERARD BOEHLING, JR., WILLIAM E. FURCELL, '30; 
E. MILTON FARLEY, FRANK A. CROVO, JR., 
•31; GERALD D. JOHNSTON, '50; and ROBERT I. HOWARD, '40. 
Re-elected for 19S6-57 were: FRiiNK CROVO, President; ,\NDY O'KEEFFE, Vice-President; BOB HOWARD, Secretarj-, and CH.-\RLIE La-F1L\TTA, Treasurer. 
—BOB HOWARD 

Wabash Valley 
In January- of this year wc had election of ^ officers and the following will be running the show for the present: TED BUMBLEBERG, president; JIM GUVSER, vice president; TOM FALLON, treasurer; and BILL RUNGE, Secretary. Rj\Y S\VANSON, last ycar*s president ^vas voted as a trustee. 
Our big night of the year was on December 28th when wc had our annual dinner dance with the St. Mar>-'s Alumni from the area. We had over 100 at that dance, which is a good turnout for this area, and .cvcr>*one seemed to enjoy themselves. 
DEAN LAWRENCE BALDINGER of Notrc^ l Dame's College of Science, was guest speaker at ­the club*s annual Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. 
BILL RUNGE, Secy. 

Washington, D. C. 
BOB SCHELLENBERG, M8, vtas Chairman of the club's Annual Mardi-Gras Dance at the Sheraton-Carlton Hotel. Although attendance did not re.Tch expectations, the party was a terrific ^ social success, a wonderful time was had by all^, who attended. 
One of the most popular Club meetings of the year has consistenily bren that of the election of officers. This term, VAL DErVLE, '39, Chairman of the Board of Governors, appointed DON KEN­NEDY, '21 and TOM MARKEY, '29, as chairmen of the two nominating committees. Don was ably assisted by PHIL MALONEY, '39, and DON STOCKING, MS; and Tom had the capable adricc of CLIFF LETCHER, '40 and BOB GORDON, *52. The election committee, composed of Chair­
s. 

men Cliff Letcher, BILL KLIMA and Bob Gordon*?; announced the following results: President, DR. .MATT SULLIV/\N, '43; Vice President, JOE FITZMAURICE, '36; Secretary, WALT MURPHY, *53; Treasurer, tie vote bcnveen BILL McGLOON, '44, and GERRY O'BRIEN, '49. A subsequent nin^off election for the office of Treasurer favored GERRY O'BRIEN. 
March 18 was the date for the Family Com­munion Breakfast, which ^vas held at the Fran­ciscan Monastery. Chairman BILL MIDDENDORF and hi.< committeemen PAUL FISHER and BOB GORDON were pleased to greet about 75 people. 
After Mass, celebrated by the Club Chaplaio, RATHE R NEFF , everyone enjoyed an address ^explained by slides) given by Father Godrey, 
O.F.M., on the Holy Land. It was a pleasure to have FATHER BERNARD R/\NSING, former Club Chaplain, who had just returned from Rome, attend this function. 
Val Pcale, Chairman of tlic Board of Governors. set April 5th as the date of a special meeting of the Board to discuss the advisability of the Club's incorporating, and amendments to the prescat 

\ Club Constitution. \"^ Local members w?re recently happy to hear that iPOH N V. HINKEL, '29, was one of the four purchasers of "Baseball Magazine,'* the oldest sports magazine in the country, founded in 1908. The editorial offices have been moved to the Washington Building, here in the City. John's classmates will not only be proud of his business acumen but of learning that he has dedicated much of his time to many civic endeavors. In addition, to teacliing Public Relations at George Washington University for the past sue years, John has found time to act as President of the District jof Columbia Department and Rescr\*c OfHcers lociation of the United States and as a member 
ijf^,
of the Board of Directors of the Bureaus of Re­habilitation- Other endeavors Include the Washing­ton Board of Trade and the American Public Relations Association. 
The Washington Club has recently been re­minded that although, when we were students, wc helped our Holy Cross Missionaries through the medium of our ever popular Bengal Bouts, the Missions now need our assistance as alumni. FATHER NEFF Club Chaplain and FATHER VINCE McCAULEY, are doing a terrific job at 

.th e Foreign Mission Seminary, Harewood Road and ^For t Drive, N.E., Washington, D. C. Remember, this is not a local project, but world-wide! 
Club members express their sympathy to J. R. "PAT" GORMAN over the recent loss of his mother. —JLM O'LAUGHLIN 
Western Washington 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington has elected THEODORE P. CUMMINGS, CHARLES F. OSBORN, and BERNARD J. LE­NOUE to scr\-c as Directors of the Club from the 
-^Seattle area during the next two years. AUGUST 

VVON BOECKLIN was elected to the Board from the Tacoma area and JUDGE JAMES H. KELLE­HER of Kent, Washington, will be the Director representing all other areas of Western Washington. 
CHARLES S. LA CUGNA as immediate Past President of the organization will remain a mem­ber of the Board cx-ofHcIo. 
President Charles 5. La Cugna has just held the election meeting of the Board of Directors for the purpose of electing the ofHcers of the Club for the next two years. The following oIHcers were chosen: BERNARD J. (BEN) LENOUE, President; AUGUST R. VON BOECKLIN, Vice President; THEODORE P. (TED) CmLMINGS, Secretar>-; and BURT J. HALL, Treasurer. 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington had a very successful celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 9, 1956 at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel. Approximately 60 Notre Dame men and their wives were present. The Club was most pleased to hav-a surprise guest in the person of JERRY GROOM, former Football Captain at Notre Dame and now a resident of this area. Our banquet was held in honor of outstanding Notre Dame men of Western Washington, especially the REVEREND PHILIP H. DUFFY, '31, Super­intendent of Schools for the Archdiocese of Seattle. Father Duffy was the principal speaker of the evening. 
The Notre Dame "Man-of-the-Ycar" au"ard was presented bv CHARLES F. OSBORN to PATRICK 
J. GOGGIN, JR. 
The entire membership received the news that JOHN C/VSTELLANI had accepted appointment to the position of Athlrtic Director and Head Basket­ball Coach at Seattle University. The Club sends its congratubtions to John and plans arc being made for a fitting reception when he returns to Seattle permanently. 
CHARLES F. OSBORN, Foundation Governor for the State of Washington, gave an encouraging report of contributions and encouraged every Notre Dame man to become a participant as a Donor to the Foundation Fund. 
President LA CUGNA announced the names of the officers for the ensuing biennium. and turned the gavel over to BEN LENOUE. The Club gave the out-going oilicers and Board Members a rising vote of thanks for their splendid service during the past few years. 
BERNARD J. LENOUE, President. 

West Virginia 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner was held at Humphrey's In Charleston on April 9, 1956. President VINCENT REISHMAN serving as Toast­master introduced John Curry, President of the West Virginia Campus Club, the principal speaker for the night. Mr. Curry talked on Notre Dame from the student viewpoint and put forth some excellent thoughts for better understanding and cooperation between the Alumni and Campus Clubs. We wish to thank the University for extending his Easter holiday thereby allomng faim to be vnth us. 
Election of officers for 1956-57 results: 

President, CORNEUUS T. DESMOND, '51; Vice Pres., GEORGE THOMPSON, '41; Secy-Treas., LAWRENCE HESS. '38. 
—CORNELIUS T. DESMOND, President. 

Youngstown 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the El Rio Restaurant in ^Varren, Ohio, on Thursday, April 5th. Attorney ROBERT SINKLE of Youngs­to^vn was In charge of the affair and 85 alumni, students, parents and guests attended. REV. WILLIAM A. HUGHES, a Youngstown product, who Is presently taking post-graduate work at the University was our guest speaker and he did an excellent job. Father Hughes reminded all of us as Notre Dame graduates of our responsibility to our Church, CommunIt>* and Families. He em­phasized that we are to exemplify the finest in Catholic Education, and be prepared to answer questions on our Faith, and above all be a living example of all the principles that Notre Dame represents. Father Hughes \VT11 be the principal of our ne^v Cardinal Mooney High School which will be opened In the Fall of 1955. 
PAUL A. GUARNIERI of ^Varren presented our "Man-of-the-Year" award :o GEORGE KELLEY, Assistant Managing Editor of the Youngstown Vindicator. Mr. Kelley has been active In Notre Dame affairs since his graduation in 1928, and has devoted much of his time to other Catholic organi'­zatlons and projects. He richly deserved the acclaim of all of us in Youngstm^'n and Warren, and certainly is a credit to our University. &fr. Kelley's Mother was Invited for the presentatioD and needless to say, she was quite proud of her son. CHARLES B. CUSmVA, JR., was toast­master and has a friend (?) tell Ms stories for him. 
The Club sponscred the University Glee Club for a concert on April 10. They presented an excellent program that was thoroughly enjoyed by all. TOM COLLERAN of Youngstown and Paul Guamleri of Warren were co-chairmen. This was the most ambitious program we have ever tackled and many of our alumni donated to our aouvenir program to help defray expenses. 
—GRIFF ALLEN, Pres. 

PITTSBURGH—Father Charles Shecdy, C.S.C., Dean of Arts and Letters College at Notre Dame and guest speaker on UND Night, ac­cepts a check from President Earl Brieger for §1,250 for the club's scholarship fund. Left to right: Harry Stuhldrehcr, toastmaster; Leo Vogel, Jr., president-elect; Brieger; Larry Smith, NDF City Chairman; Man of the Year Frank McSorley; and Fr. Sheedy. 
Notu Dame Alumnus, Jurtfjuly, 1^6 
Flynn was Commander of the 9130th Air Reserve Group. He is survived by his widow. Col. Flynn^^ 
was Notre Dame Foundation chairman in Fort W Wayne. JOHN P. \fcKENNA, '25, died ifarch 14. He resided at 78 Bay Drive, Massapequa, New York. 




ILUMII fllsSES , ^ 
Mr. McKcnna is survived by his wife, Margaret, 
J. BRYAN WALTERS, '25, of Hammond, Indi­
w^^ w
*AX «A>\\ 
Engagements 

MUs Martha J. Miller and CHARLES A. ROULT, '49. XCa Amelia Szela and LOUIS A. BERGERON, '52. 
Marriages 

Miss She!;^h Richardson and JOSEPH D. PHEIF­ER, '49, London, England, December 10, 1955. 
ifiss Georgia Rigano and AUSTIN B. Le-STRANGE, JR., '50, New Rochellc, N. Y., Febru­ary 25. 
Mia Nanjy Louise Hodapp and FRANK E. McBRIDE, JR., '50, Dayton, Ohio, May 12. Miss Natalie Ann Conncis and F. GERARD PERRINE, '51, New Ftirfield, Conn., February 11. Miss Maigarit Curtin and J. GARVEV JONES, '52, Syracuse, N. Y., April 2. Miss Bemadinc Marjorie Benson and ROBERT 
J. DONOGHUE, '53, BromOTlle, N. Y., Fdjruary 4. Miss Gabrielle Martens and JAMES T. TRAX­LER, '53, Notre Dame, Ind., April 7. 
lifiss Miry Ann Shaw and EDWARD H. BROWN, JR., '54, Ex-anston, 111., January 28. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. J. F. RUDD, '29, a son, Joseph Gerard, February 22. Mr. and Mrs. Mx\LCOLM HATFIELD, '31. a son, Malcolm, Jr., March 27. Mr. and Mrs. H. P. SHEAN, *31, a daughter, Monica Mary, March 1. Mr. and Mrs. AVILLIAM B. BRUNO, '37, a daughter, Mary Patricia. Mr. and Mrs. JACK SOLON, '38, a son, Stephen Michael. April 15. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD HICKEY, '38, a daughter, April 14, Mr. and Mrs. EARL M. BROWN, '39, a son, Mark Matthew, February 19. Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE T. (PETE) SHEE­HAN, '40, a son, January 28. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MacCAULEY, '41. a daughter, Kathleen, Nov. 13, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE T. GOELLER, '42, a son, Geoffrey Eugene, March 13. Mr. and Mis. NEIL J. McCARTY, '42. a son, John Michael, December 23, 1955. Dr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. ROURKE, '43, a daughter, Shellah Ann, December 5, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT BITTER, '44, a son, Stephen Vincent Taylor, January 26. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. HACKiLVN, '44, a son, Dan Robert, April 3. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT W. SNEE, '45, a daughter, Mary Martha, December 14, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. MORRIS ^VAGNER, *46, a daughter, April 4. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN GLAAB, '47 a son, Leo Paul, March 15. Mr. and Mrs. J. BRIAN McCARTHY, '49, a son, April 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DEEGAN, '50, a son, 
Ke\*in Gerard, February 5. Dr. and Mis. LOUIS M. HALEY, '50, a son. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HICKEY, '50, a 
daughter, April 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. LALLY, '50, t^vin daughters, CoUcen Marie and Kathleen Louise, March 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. CARL A. EIFERT, '51, a daughtiT, Catherine J'wephine, February 9. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES ^V. FRICK, '51. a daughter, Kathleen Florence, April 18. Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD KNIGHT, '51, a daughter, April 18. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN REEDY, '51, a daughter, April 17. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. SGHMTTT, '51, a daughter, ^farch 13. Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD VAN TASSEL, '51, a dxughter, Theresa Ann. February 10. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 2956 
Mr. and Mtj. BERNARD A. LONCZAK, '52, a 
son, Bernard Anthony, January 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. SEMETKO, '52, twin 
daughters, Susan Marie and Sally Ann, February 
4. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD J. STRASSER, '52, 
a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. CORRIGAN, '53, a 
son, Timothy John, February 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROGER VALDISERRI, '54, a 
daughter, Kathleen Marie, March 26. 
Sympathy 

JOSEPH G., '29, and JAMES E. FRIEL, »30, 
on the death of their father, February 21. 
EMMETT A. McCABE, *29, on the death of 
his wife, Sara Elizabeth, on Febniar>* 16. 
CLDO-ON H. \VATSON, *32, on the death of 
his father, February 27. 
ROBERT J. KLrVIBER, JR., '35, on the death 
of his fath-r, April 11. 
RICHARD J. HENNESSEY, '38, on the death 
of his daughter, February 23. 
LA\VRENCE HESS, '38, on the death of his 
mother. 
RICHARD J., '43, and THOMAS A. DIGAN. 
*51, on tht death of their father, Frank A. 
Digan, on February 11. 
Deaths 

ANTHONY F. DORLEY, '00, of St. Louis, 
Missouri, died in January, 1956. 
GEORGE McCAMBRIDGE, '00, a resident of 
Santa Monica, Calif., died March 6. 
THONUS A. TONER, '04, died on April 17, 
195S, in a Grand Forks. N.D., hospital. He had 
practiced law in that city for many years after 
graduating from Notre Dame's La^v' School and 
was one of the leading attorneys until his retire­
ment about two and a half years ago. Mr. Toner 
was bom in Portage au Fort. Quebec, Canada, 
and mo^-ed to Grand Forks in 1913. He %%-as a 
member of the Elks Lodge, the Knights of Colum­
bus and St. Mary's Church. His survivors include 
the widow, a brother, a sister, four half sisters 
and a half brother. The family address is 118 
Belmont Road, Grand Forks, N. D. 
HAROLD P. FISHER, '06. of Chicago, II!., 
died January 8 according to information just 
received by the Alumni Office. 
DANIEL L. MADDEN, '06, died on Dec 23, 1947, in. Chicago, III, according to information received from his son. Mr. Gladden was bom near the town of Thurles, Ireland, and came to the United States when he was 10 years old. He wta a veteran of the Spanish-American War, and following his graduation from Notre Dame. &fr. Afadden practiced law for many years. His sur­vivors include two sons, Daniel L. and Edtvard J. 
HARRY S. CAHILL, '08. of Coconut Grove. Florida, died recently. HARRY C. HIGGINS. '08, of Coral Gables, Florida, died recently. 
DR. GEORGE V. BUTLER, '20, died of a heart atta-Jt on December 10, 1955, at his home in Rochester, N. Y. He is survived by his wife, Katharine, three sons, a daughter and a sister. 
KARL M. ARNDT, '22, assistant director for economic development of the Internationa! Coopera­tion Administration's China Mission and a former faculty member at the University of Nebraska, died on Fdiruary 22 in Taipeh, Formosa. His home was at 4812 Drummond Ave., Chevy Chase, Md. Mr. Amdt was a member of the American Economic Assodation and the American Finance Assodation and was the author of articles and book renews in the field of economics. He is sumvcd by his wife, Dorothy, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charies Amdt of Pasadena, Calif., a brother and two sisters. 
SISTER Kf. CELESTYN (NGRRIS), OS.C, '22. died recently, 
ROBERT J. MTTHEN, *22, died January 15. His home was at 2615Vi West Bancroft Street, Toledo, Ohio. Mr. Mithen is survived by his wfc, Mary. 
COL. JOHN R. FLYNN, '23. of 1620 Forest Park, Fort Wayne, Indiana, died ^ri l 12. Col. 
ana, died April 17 according to information re­
ceived by the Alumni Office from hb wife. 
DR. C. J. LANGENBAHN, '26, prominent South 
Bend physician, died March 29. 
JAMES J. CONNER, '28, died January 3 during ^ 
surgery according to information received from his ^ 
wife, ifargaret. Mr. Conner was president of the 
Home Ice and Coal Company in Elwood, Indiana. 
JAMES M. CARMODY, '32, department manager 
for the Continental Illinois National Bank and 
Trust Company, died %[arch 12 in St. Margaret's 
Hospital, Hammond, Ind. He resided at 7833 
Bertram Road, Hammond. Mr. Carmody is sur­
vived by his wife, Rita, his parents, two brothers, 
a sister, a step-brother and a step-sister. 
JOHN F. MURPHY, '32, of Detroit, Mich., died 
recently according to Information received by the 
Alumni Office. ^ 
JAMES B. JONES, '33, Stockton. Calif., general^ 
agent for the Equitable Life Insurance Company of 
Iowa, died March 13 in his home shortly after 
suffering a heart attack. Mr. Jones vvas a director 
of the United Crusade and president of the Com­
munity Chests, Councils, and United Funds of Cen­
tral and Northern California, and past-president 
of the Scrra Club. He was also affiliated with the 
Elks Lodge, Yosemite Club and the Knights of 
Columbus and had been active in the San Joaquin 
County Chapter of the American National Red 
Cross. Mr. Jones is survived by his wife, Mildred, 
two daughters, his mother and a brother, William, gg 
'28. ^ 
ED^VARD P. STREB, '34, died of a heart attack 
on February 17 in Canton, Ohio. He is survived 
by his ^v'ife, a daughter and a brother, ROBERT, 
'32. 
^VILLIAM J. WHALEN, '45, a Fresno, Calif., 
lawyer and the city attorney of Firebaugh, died 
April 14 in a Fresno hospital following abdominal 
surgery. He was a member of the Holy Name 
Society of Sacred Heart Church, the Knights of 
Columbus, the Notre Dame Club of Central Cali­
fornia, the American Bar Association and the 
Fresno County Bar Association. Mr. 'Whalen is -> 
survived by his wife, Mary Margaret, a son. two ^ 
daughters and his mother 
JAMES P. MURPHY, '49, of King, ^Visconsln, died recently according to information received from his father. 
LT. DONALD S. CARILLO, '52, was killed in a plane crash on March 20. He was stationed at the Harlingen AFB, Texas, and had organized the Notre Dame Club of the Rio Grande Valley just prior to his death. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. S. D. Carillo. live at 1199 Ocean Parkway. Brooklyn 30, N. Y. 
LT. (Js) LA^VRENCE P. ASH, '54, was killed .^ in the crash of a Navy plane near Pittsburgh, Pa., ^ on March 26. He xns a member of the 24th 
U. S. Air Anti-Submarine Squadron. His parents, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Ash, live at 2424 North Tcjon Street, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
RIGHT REV. MSGR. NORBERT C. HOFF, former profcsscr of philosophy and religion at Notre Dame, died April 26, in Helena, Mont., where he had be^n serving as special adviser to tlie bishop of Helenii. He was bom in Mihvaukee, ^Vis., in 1889, and was educated in Loras College. Dubuque, la., wher* he received a doctor of phil­osophy degree, and at the Catholic University ol^ .\merica, Washington, where he was au'arded a * degree in sacred theology. From 1914 until 1932 he taught in Carroll College in Helena, and ivas its president from 1920 until 1932. He was at the University of Notre Dame from 1932 until 1942 and during those years served as chaplain of the ^Vranglers, n forensic society. Funeral rites and burial were in Helena. i 
PROF. JOHN A. NORTHCOTT, JR., retired | University of Notre Dame professor, died April 4 i in his home In Williamsburg. Va,, after a year's Illness with a heart ailment. Until his retirements about two years ago. Prof. Northcott was head of the department of electrical engineering at Notre Dame serving in that capacity from 1938 runtil 1954. He joined the faculty in 1922, Prof. Northcott was a member of the American Institute of Electrical Engineering and the American Society for Eng^eering Education. He is survived by his wife, Virginia, a daughter, a sister and a brother. 
BARTHOLOMEW OTOOLE, prominent Chicago banker and civic leader and a member of Notre Dame's Advisory Coundl of the College of Arts and Letters, died April 4 at Jackson Park Hospital 
at the-age-of - 75. . Mr.-0*Toole,-who was active ^ a banking, real estate and philanthropic acti^^ties, ^vas chairman of the board of the Pullman Tnist and Savings Bank, the State Bank of Blue Island and the Standard State Bank. He was active in the Illinois Bankers Association and the American Bankers Association and served as president of the Installment Lending Division of the Illinois Bank­ers Association. He was a member of the Ridge Country Club, South Shore Country Club and the Bankers Club of Chicago. Mr. O'Toole is sur­\ wved by three daughters and sLx sons, five of whom \" arc Notre Dame graduates, DONALD, '31, PAUL, 
4132, JUSTIN, '36, KEVIN, M3, and ROBERT '45. A seventh son, BARTHOLOMEW, JR., '39, was killed in action in \VorId ^Var II. 
CORRECTION—Through misinformation sent to the Alumni Office, the report of Se^v^rd E. Bower's death in the last ALUMNUS is erroneous. Mr. Seward, a member of the 1926 Class, is alive, healthy and working for the Detroit Neu-s. 
1906 

-' TERRENCE COSGROVE recently sent to the Univenity a reproduction of an article concemins bis grandfather, Redman Cosgrove, that appeared in the "Seneca" published in 1900. Mr. Cosgrovc's grandfather was a friend of FATHER SORIN. Accortiing to the newspaper account Mr. Redman Cosgro\e was "a liberal donor*' to the University. 
1911 Fred L. Steers 

• ' • ' 105 S. LaSalle St. ^ Chicago 3, Illinois 
1913 Paul I^ Byrne Box 46 Notre Oame, Indiana 
I Old ^O'^ O'Neill ' ' ' ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 

LT. GEN. FR.\NC1S P. (PAT) MULCAHY, >*USMC, ret., was honored guest and reviewing Wofhccr at a regimental parade at the San Diego Marine Corps Recruit Depot Feb. 2-t. Folloning the parade Gen. and Mrs. Mulcahy were honored by a reception. During his 29 years in the Corps, Gen. Mulcahy pioneered Marino aviation pro­cedures and operations. He has seen 5er\*ice in France, Nicaragua and Africa. In World War II he commanded the tactical air force of the 10th 
U. S. Army in the Okinawa campaign. Gen Mul­cahy is now in the contracts division of the Convair Di^'ision ol General Dynamics in San Diego. 

••"|0|C James E. Sanford ' 1429 W. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40, Illinois 
1916 ^1^0 V ' ^- Miller 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
By the time this issue of the ALU^tNUS reaches 

members of the Class of 1916 the Reunion week­-end will probably be ''history.'* At this ivriting V(just before press time) Reunion plans are shaping 
up fine. Several wheel chairs and canes have been reserved for "younger boys." We insist that this vrHl not be our last Reunion, however. 
1917 Edward J. McOsker 2205 Briarwood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 

1918 George E. Harbert 1^ 500 Rock Island Bank Bldg. Rock Island, Illinois 
lOlO Theodore C. Rademaker Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 
1920 J^"!^ ^ Ryan 
107 Magee Ave. Rochester 13, N. Y. 

1991 Dan W. Duffy ' ' * ' 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
WILLIAM F. "BILL" LAWLESS recenUy re­ceived his 25 year pin as a member of the DuPont Company. Bill is Works Engineer in Waynesboro, Virginia. He and Mrs. Lawless are the parents of live children. They also have eight grand­children. 
1922 Gerald A. Ashe ^ ^ 39 Cambridge S t Rochester 7, N. Y. 
\Vith deep regret we receive from JIM ARM­STRONG the very sad news of the recent death in Taipei, Formosa, of our classmate KARL M. ARNDT. Information concerning this originally was noted in the daily press by JACK HIGGINS of Detroit and FRANK BLOEMER, JR., of Louis­ville, both of whom were close friends of Karl in bis imdergraduate days. For many years, Karl was a member of the faculty at the University of Nebraska. Later he became top staff man of the White House Council of Economic Advisors. His last governmental assignment was assistant director for economic development of the International Co­operation Administration of Formosa. Karl was a brilliant student at Notre Dame (Litt.B.). His quiet and reserved manner always was part of him. Karl's home address listing is 4812 Drnm­mond Road, Che^-y Chase, Maryland. We extend our sincere sympathy to Karl's loved ones. 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., was in New York City for a month recently conducting missions and being a frequent visitor of JOSEPH TIERNEY, '21, a patient in the Kingsbridge 
V.A. Hospital in Bronx, N. Y. We hope our good friend Joe is already released from the hospital. DOCTOR TO.\I SHEEN, '20, has been passing out the orders to Joe since the start of his illness. EDDIE GOTTRY is thereabouts and sees all of the aforementioned frequently. 
JOSEPH J. DORAN is now the first asnitaBt legal coonsel to the Public Service CommiKom of Uie State of New York. Joe liyea ia Albaay. Fonnerly, be was with the Intentate Coauneree Commuuon m Washington, D. C. and waa Asmt­ant Fnleral Prosecuting Attorney for Westera New York. 
Our congratulations are extended to "Mr, and Mn. EDWIN J. BYRNE of Natchex. Miss., upon the marriage of their daughter, Eleanor, to Mr. Nolan John Edwards in St. Mary's Cathedral at Natchez on Fdiruury 4. To Mr. and Mrs. Ed­wards we tender our feliatations and best wishes. 
Recent address changes received from the Alum­ni Office indicate that JERRY JONES, fozmerly of Dixon, Illinois, now resides at 3675-C Edison Street, San Mateo, Calif. We surely wish Jerry well in his new locale. 
CLARENCE "PAT" MANION, former Dean of Law at Notre Dame and presently interested in the "For America" movement, recently vras a guest speaker in the Twin Cities. Another class­mate, LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAW, also was in the same area getting folks interested in the new Air Corps Academy at Colorado Springs, Colo. Buck is head coach of football for the birdmen. 
HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDERSON and EARL "CURLY** LAMBEAU who with others coached the College All-Stars to a victory over the pro­fessional Cleveland Browns in Chicago last summer, have been commissioned to try a repeat perform­ance this year. 
FATHER "BOB" GALLAGHER, who has served as pastor in Van Wert, Ohio, for many years, now shows locating at 550 Clark Street, Toledo, Ohio. As yet, we do not know his new parish affiliation. 
WALTER L. SHILTS, head of the department of civil engineering at Notre Dame, has been »p-pointed senior engineering resident in this area for the U. S. Public Health Service. His new posi­tion involves decontamination and the insurance of an adequate and pure supply of water in case of emergency. 
EASTERN ILLINOIS—^Man of the Year is Frank J. Meyer (center). The presentation was made at the club's Universal Notre Dame celebration. Others in the picture are Robert Morris (left), president-elect and Leslie C Hahne, retiring president. 
Notrt DttTM Mmmams, Jmtu-Jnly, 1956 37 
EL PASO—Ed Krause -was the principal speaker at the cIuVs UND Night meeting. 
1 099 Louis V, Bniggncr 
• '^ ^ 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 

More or less m chronolo^cal order, here are some letters received—and I must say more and more ol >'ou boys arc getting the idea—keep it up. I love it. 
LYLE MILLER'S letter dates back to the foot­ball season and his unsuccessful quest for home game tickets: "Drove over to Robinson, III., trying to get in touch with STAN BRADBURY but no one answered the phone. . . . The wedding is cn-er (his daughter's) and the bills are all paid." 
And here's another "country" heard from. Canandaigua, N. Y.'s EDAVARD J. GRETCHEN wrote from his law office at 41 S. Main St.: ''Advancing age seems to crystallize memories and reach out for any bits of news of friends of our more youthful days! Sorry to hear of passing of Mike Seyfrit and Joe Troman. Joe and his wife were our guests in Detroit on their -wedding trip. It's been many >'ears since I have seen any of the old classmates. Our 25th Class reunion found me engaged in two major projects—my 25th wedding anniversary and becoming the father of our first and only son. .. . It w*ou1d be interesting to know if I hold the record for the youngest offspring of the Class? Besides the little guy we have a mar­ried daughter and another daughter graduating in June, 1956, from University of Rochester School of Nursing. . . Also looking forward to being grandparents the first of the year. . . . After some yeais in Detroit we moved to this little hamlet in upper New York State. . . . ^Ve live in an old Colonial house and Vm. an old (admissable testimony) country law>-er. Excepting six years as Asst. Atty-Gencral in Albany we've been here nigh onto 21 years." 
Another short but welcome note from FRED STEELE, still confined to his home In St. Paul, Minn. Thanks to Fred, this comer has received an address attributed to PAUL JACKSON, 12127 Prairie, Detroit 4, Mich. 
ED GOULD has just announced the opening of the Gould Tour and Travel Service, Incorporated, 1313 W. Randolph, Chicago 7, lU. Ed's office will arrange trips for individuals, families or groups by air, rail or steamship—domestic or international traveling. 
HI HUNT, Internal Revemier in Dccorah, Iowa, sent me a Christmas card, enclosing a picture of himself, wife and water spaniel, taken last Labor Day, and reported further: *'had tickets for the N-D.-Iowa game last fall . . . but couldn't make it . . . listened over the radio . . . wish you guys down there would cease taking these Iowa teams so lightly." 
ED KELLY was kind enough to write from his Emmetsburg, Iowa law office: "JOHN GLEASON is back to good health (for an old man, same as the rest of us) and a back ia the active practice of law in Cleveland. His new address is Quad 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
Hall, 7500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio." 
.At Christmas there was a Battering sprinkling of Christmas greetings sent my way by a number of Classmates, with short notes appended: 
FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY, Col: U.S.A. Ret'd, wrote on his card: "Nothing particularly new . . . Duff WatsoQ, an old lifer who should have been in our class but settled with a finisher at Chi­cago Art School, is somewhat crippled with rheuma­tism." 
JERRY RANDALL added a P.S. to his card: "With the Christmas season comes a realization of the passage of time and an awareness that I have not written. I had just addressed a card to Charlie ^fartin's widow and that set me to thinking about N.D. Although there are no *23 men in this xicinity (Flint, Mich.) I feel much cIosK* to the Class through the information in your letters." 
A Christmas card from VINCE BRO^VN, stated: "God has been good to me. Our two sons have graduated from N.D. and our daughter from Mary­mounu .. . I see WALT RAUBER, MARTY BRENNAN and JOHN BYRNE occasionaUy. . . . Four '23 boys in Buffalo. .. . Probably no other city of comparable size can probably make that statement. Vincc." 
FATHER JOSEPH M. BRANNIGAN, CS.a , says "I am still up here at Sacred Heart College as Chaplain." lUs address is P. O. Box 323 Watcrtown, ^Vis. 
FRANK S. DORIOT and I had a nice visit in my Coffee Break Comer on the morning of the Navy game last fall. He will be glad to receive any mall addressed to him at 1202 Fourth Ave., Huntington, West Va. 
My thanks for Christmas greetings also go to BILL VOSS, HY HUNT, RUTH and HARRY FLANNERY, JLM ARMSTRONG, and JACK NORTON. 
I have run onto JOHN M. (ROBEY) ROHR­BACH twice in recent months at the South Bend Country Club. Once he was playing golf and more recently he was there for dinner with the BILL SHEEHANS, '22. Robey*s daughter married a son of Bill Shcehan—hence the visiting at the Club. The Rohrbachs live it Crown Point, Ind. 
In a breezy letter from JOHN G. BYRNE of Niagara Falls, N. Y., John had this to say: 
"Another thing that hit me \vas your mention of FRANCIS X. DISNEY. I believe he is at the state capitol, Albany, K. Y., but I don't know where. My brothcr-in-Iaw is Chairman of the New York State Thruway Authority and we are in Albany frequently on vbits and on business. 
'•My son. Rusty, tells me tliat he stopped in to see you. He seems to like Notre Dame. Of course we get the usual gripes about food, the rules, and early to bed. The best was the comment that the place hasn't changed since I was there except for a few new buildings. We weren't sure that he would xaJkc it to enter N.D. this fall. A week before he was to go back at Terry's in­\*itation for early freshman practice, a girl came out of a stop road without stopping and hit the car he was driving. He was thro\%'n out and sUd ^ along the pavement and took off an acre of ikin ^ but otherwise OK. How he lived is more than I can figure for the car was wrecked so badly that it was only jtmk. 
"Thirty-five years and *58 is not so far away. Let's all walk carefully in the grace of God and make it. Best to Gin .. . John," 
1 094 Jaincs R. Mcchan 
• '^ ^ 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
^' 

EUGENE A. MAYL has just been elected to the ^ 
presidency of the Dayton Ohio Community Chest Association. Gene has devoted many years of service to this organization, and it is a reward for the able work which he has performed in the past. 
192S John p . Hurley 
• '*" * 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
Your secretary got a few good ideas during the Class Secretaries' Sessions last Fall and one of thcgj^ best was the mailing of a questionnaire to all the^* class members. This questionnaire will get your secretary up-to-date on what's happened to us in 31 )'ears, other than getting gray hairs or losing them altogether. 
WALTER J. "BUTCH" HAECKER called mo on the phone the other day. I told him he looked younger than any of the 25cr's in that class picture. Butch is in Nashville, Tennessee and I know he would be glad to hear from any of you boys passing thru Nashville. I was telling Butch that ART SUDER, '26 had a touch appendectomy but is getting along fine. Only a few days latei^ BOB COONEY of Adrian and of the class of 1927 died of a heart attack. He was in the hospital a week before he died so he was in the good hands of Holy Mother Church and Our Lady when he did pass away. May we all be as fortunate. Bob's father, Mr. JIM COONEY is Toledo's oldest alumnus. Bob also leaves his ^vife I and a brother Jim. 
^Vhile at a "Father & Daughter" dinner and weekend at Maryville College in St. Louis, I ran I into Dr. FRAN KENNEDY of St. Louis. He , looks great and we had a nice visit. I also sa^4^' / FREDDIE MAHAFFEY of Indianapolis. Freddie |j was a few classes ahead of 115—but he doesn't look It or act it. He had a daughter who is a freshman at Mar>-villc. - . . Mine is a Senior. Boy, those years really go by. Bob Romweber, Paul's brother was ako there and he said Paul was really in great health and smiling—as usual. 
Listen boys, when you do get this questionnaire —fill it out at once and return to your *'Sec" because I'm getting too old to be writing all the time begging for news—that will keep me going for a year—it costs me money getting it out— 
A. GORDON BENNETT, '28 
One of the more interesting words in the language is called paradox; 'the yet it is, yet it isn't situation.' A. Gordon Bennett, '28, of Buffalo, New York, ex­empliiies this to a small extent in that he spent three years at Notre Dame 
* only to have sickness prevent him from graduating. But getting off to a wobbly start didn't slow him down. 
Recently Gordon was appointed General Manager of the Buffalo Courier-Express, the city's morning newspaper. Before this he served as Credit Manager, and Business Man-
Jager. In 1954 he was named Secre­tary of the Corporation. 
While at Notre Dame he studied journalism under the late Dr. John Cooney and became fast friends with Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.G., later president of the University and now Archbishop of Philadelphia. 
i Bennett was president of the local Alumni Club in 1931 and is presently a member of the Executive Committee for the Council of Catholic Men, the Knights of Columbus, and the Cor­porate Gifts Division of the Catholic Charities Campaign. 
I Married to the former Bemadette M. Breene of Buffalo, a graduate of Mary-mount College, Tarrytown, N. Y., the Bennetts have four sons: Thomas G., a June graduate from Notre Dame, Richard B., 19, a sophomore at St. Vin­cent's College, Latrobe, Pa., Robert M., 15, a sophomore at Canisius High School, Buffalo, and James A., 7. 
you can pay three cents getting it back. That's all I'm asking. 
Let's not forget to pray for each other and let's get some Mass money to Hank Wurzer, Blackhawk Hotels, Davenport, lou-a. 
1926 John J. Ryan 
2458 Greenleaf Avenue 
Chicago 43, Hlmois 
JOE BACH has recently been added to the 
I. W. Scott Companies sales staff in Pittsburgh. Joe was on the football staff of Columbia Univer­sity last year. 
MICHAEL B. REDDINGTON and his partner PATRICK J. FISHER, '35, have announced the removal of their Law OfHces to 915 Indiana Building, 120 £. Market Street, Indianapolis, Ind. 
JERRY McDERMOTT i regional manager with the Donnelly Advertising Corporation of Maryland and has headquarten at Baltimore. His new business address is in core of the above named company at 3001 Reminglo:! Avenue, Baltimore 11, Md. 
From SID BOWER: Dear John: 
"I hasten to inform you—and JIM ARMSTRONG —that, contrary to notations in the March-April f\LUMNUS, I am still much alive. My chief con­cern, upon reading of my death in 1951, was the origin of such information; I thought most of our practical jokers were thrown into our lake more than 30 years ago. 
I doubt that I will be able to join you at the June Reunion, but perhaps somewhere on the program you can arrange a moment of resurrection in my behalf. 
University and class mail still reach me, so I conclude the mixup must have occurred else­where. 
No, really, I'm looking fonvard to the 50th Reunion, at least." 
1 027 Steve Ronay 
1125 Woodlawn 
South Bend 16, Indiana 
A meaty communication from ART MONACO, who is Sales Representative for the Fcrrara Studios in New York, supplies these class items: 
"FATZO" BORETZ is doing himself and "Cadil­lac" a lot of good in Yonkers, N. Y. 
BILL DEGNEN'S son Bill, Jr., is making great strides as a commercial illustrator. Bill, Sr., is still with M. W. Kell<-gs Co., chemicals. 
JACK HICKOCK is giving "Hotpoint" the kind of sales di.ection it wants in the Eastern area. 
DAN MOORE {say, there's a lad a lot of, us haven't seen or heard of in a long time) is person­nel manager of Western Electric Company and living in Summit, N. J. 
JOE M/\XWELL is working at industrial rela­tions for Philco in Philly. JIM QUINN is binding more books than ever at Rahway, N. J. 
Art also sends on the information that SPIKE ^fcADAMS, '26, is contact man for Jones and Laughlin Steel Company and that JACK ROACH, '26, looks chipper as ever winning friends and in­fluencing people for Carstairs and Calverts. 
Other notes from other directions: 
FR,\NK PENDERCAST, the amiable nnder­wTitcr, is rolling up records in the insurance busi­ness in the Los Angeles area. He's with ^futual of New York. 
Another undcnvriter who isn't sitting on his hands is SEBASTIAN BERNER. He's sold your secretary about every kind of insurance he's able to buy. 
Members of the '27 Class can expect soon to receive a questionnaire from this ofHce. It's time to start planning for the reunion in '57. (How many of you are grandfathers?) A hundred per­cent response should help the class officers plan the reunion program and will give your secretary something to pass along to the class thru this column. 
1928 Louis F. Buckley *• 1253 North Central Ave. Chicago, Illinois 
ART DENCHFIELD has moved to the British West Indies, speci6cally to Port of Spain, Trini­dad. He is still ^vith the Singer Sewing Machine Company. The t^vo older Denchficld boys are in school in Denmark and the t^vo younger ones arc at home in Trinidad. Art's new address is Post Office Box 603, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.L 
The Columbus Citizen selected JIM SHOCE­
MATTHEW E. TRUDELLE, '17 

The newest and one of the most luxurious motor hotels in Phoenix, a city that is bulging at the seams wth plush accommodations for travelers in the great State of Arizona, is a $5 mil­lion job designed by Matthew E. Tru­delle, '17. Since moving to Phoenix in 1944, after having been a resident of Cleveland and Akron, Mr. Trudelle's architectural projects have included churches, convents, schools and miscel­laneous other buildings. Particularly impressive has been the commission he received from the Military Department in Arizona to design a multi-million dollar expansion program for the Na­tional Guard. Included in the plans are 14 armories and 10 storage build­ings. 
In addition to being one of the Southwest's outstanding architects. Matt Trudelle finds time to participate in activities of various organizations. He was elected president of the first St. Vincent de Paul Society formed in the Tucson diocese, and in 1954, Matt was president of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix. A native of Chip­pewa Falls, Wis., he was married in the Log Chapel following his gradua­tion from the Department of Architec­ture at Notre Dame. 
Last year the Bureau of Indian Af­fairs awarded a contract to Mr. Tru­delle for a school and dining hall on the Hopi Reservation at Polacca, Ari­zona. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July. I9S6 
FORT WAYNE—Club president Thomas O'Reilly (left) presents Man of the Year award to GiilTord ^\^a^d at the club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. 
NESS\ as one of "The Citizens ten top men of 1955." According to the citation, Jim, "the tire­less and demanding head" of the Ohio Turnpike Commission who was responsible for its com­pletion on schedule, suggested ways for saving some $100 million in construction costs on the proposed second North-South Turnpike. Jim's name has been prominently mentioned as a pos­sible successor to his close friend Governor Laus­che. I noted one columnist who referred to Jim as '*a bachelor ^vhose recreation is work." 
A. GORDON BENNETT has become general manager of the Buffalo Co>uner-£xprcss, according to a clipping sent by MARTIN RYAN. This po­sition was held at one time by Gordon's father. Gordon has four sons, ages 7 to 21. (Ed. Note: Gordon is a ^'Spotlight Alumnus" la this issue.) 
GERALD McGILL is Community Sernces Con­sultant for the northern half of AViscoastn with the Division for Children and Youth of the Wis­consin State Department of Public Welfare. He has his District OHice in Eau Claire, \Vi5Consin. Gerald has done some outstanding work in the field of alcoholic rehabilitation in recent years. 
My mnst faithful correspondent, BERNIE CAR­EER, tells me that LARRY CULLINEY had his fifth child in March. The oldest of Larry's three sons and two daughters is 14. Larr^- Is an exam­iner for tlie Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and is a specialist in Trtist Department examina­tions. He lives in North Haven, Conn. This is the first birth I have reported in some time. Since births are news again, after 28 years, please keep me advised accordingly. BERNIE GARBER had another siege of surgery in March, but is recovering nicely according to my latest report. 
RUSS SMITH of Sandusky, Ohio, called me when he w*as in Chicago recently attending a convention of the National Sand & Gravel Assn. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July^ 2956 
Russ is now a grandfather. He has a son at John Carroll University. 
^Vc enjoyed a good get-together at the home of BILL DWYER recently. BUI has two datigh­ten and one son. He is copy director for the Raymond C. Hudson & Assoc, Inc., an advertising agency. Jl&f ALLAN, Claim Supervisor for the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Co., and BILL MURPHY, District Manager of the Divcrsey Corp., Industrial ChrfnTcJ*!* & Compounds, were also at Bill's house. 
On \isitlng the law office of a friend recently I noticed a copy of a book entitled "Law Office Secretary's Manual" by JOHN ANTUS. The book, published by Prentice-Hall, Inc., in 1940, Is now In Its fifth printing. Jotm, former U. S. trial attorney with the Department of Justice, Customs Dl^'ision, has now resumed the general practice of law at 342 ^fadlson Avenue in New York City. 
BERNIE R. CONDON, who was with our class for two years, is fashion merchandiser wt h Sears, Roebuck & Co. There are a number of other classmates with Sears, Including ED McSWEENEY (Advertising), BILL GOELITZ (Plumbing & Heat­ing Di\-lsion), JOE DORAN (Farm Fence Depart­ment) and JOE BRAN'NON (District Manager, Phoenix, Arizona). Are there any others who should be added to this list? 
JOHN HERBERT stopped In to see JOHN Mc-M^\NMON at the McManmon Florist and Nursery, 392 Veterans of Foreign Wars Highway, Route 110, Lowell, Mass. JOHN HERBERT Is with the Will and Baumcr Candle Co. In Boston. He has two children ages 9 and II. 
I noted a picture of TONf BYRNE in the Holy Cross Courier. Tom's %vifc, Catherine, is Presi­dent of the St. Mary's College Alumnae Associa­tion. The Byrne's have five children, ages 11 
HENRY F. BARNHART, '23 

Henry F. Bamhartj an alumnus of Notre Dame's 1923 Class, has been elected to the Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation's board of directors. Henry is vice president in charge of the Construction Equipment Division.^ 
After receiving both a bachelor's and a master's degree from Notre Dame, he attended Harvard University from 1924 to 1926. 
He formerly was employed by the Marion (Ohio) Steamshovel Company and the Lima Locomotive Works. In 1948, Henry was elected vice president _ and director of the Lima-Hamilton^ Corporation which later was to merge with the Baldwin Locomotive Works of Philadelphia. Last year he was named general manager of the Lima (Ohio) AVorks. The Construction Equipment Division which he super­vises comprises plants at Aurora, lU.,^ LaMirada, Calif., and Lima, Ohio. He'* is a director of the National Bank of Lima, a director of the Construction Industry Manufacturers Association and a member of the board of direc­tors of the Lima Public Library. 
to 18. Tom is in public relations work with the Oliio Bell Telephone Co. :n Cleveland. In addi­tion to the outstanding j<^ he has done for the N. D. Foundation in Ohio, he is very active in community work in Cleveland. 
Dr. DICK AVEHS is the Medical Supervisor of the Medical Section on the "H Bomb" project at Augusta, Georgia. Dick has been in the indus­trial medicine field with the DuPont Company for a number of years. He is still single. 
GEORGE SCHEUER tells me that EARL J. DARDES \'islted him last summer. Earl is oper-^ 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Speakers at annual Rockne Communion Breakfast included: (photo on left) Herb Jones, ND Business Manaser of Athletics; Herb is flanked by Mayor Ed^vard Voorde, '36, of South Bend, and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CLS.C., '37, executive vice-presi­dent. Photo on right: Tom Conley (standing), grid captain in '30 and guest speaker along with Herb Jones, and Ticket Manager Bob 
^ 
ating a photo service in Titusville, Pa., and spe­cializes in picCures for the oil industry. He has one son 9. Xt was the first time Earl had visited the N. D. campus since 1928. A friend of mine tells roe that GEORGE SCHEUER discussed a religious award for Cub Scouts at a regional meet­ing of Catholic chaplains and lay leaders in Spring­field, Illinois, a few months ago. George is still 

A^^th the Soutli Bend Tribune and has four sons, "ages 8 to 16. 
John Cackley and his efficient secretary, Irene Trippel, in the Alumni office, were very helpful in preparing at my request a list of the 40 sons of classmates at Notre Dame this year. ED QUINN, Head of the Department of Guid­ance, did an excellent job of analyzing the data for me by college and years at school. Many classmates with sons at N. D. have told me that Ed is doing an outstanding job with the students. I am able, therefore, to show after the name of each cla*>smate a letter indicating the year in col­lege (Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, Senior) for 

i^the son of the classmate. 
The 13 sons of the following classmates are enrolled in Arts and Letters: JOSEPH J. BAIRLEY (F). ROGER BRESLIN (F), BOB GRAHAM (F). DICK PHELAN (F), CHARLEY SCHUESSLER (F), WALTER TOUSSx\NT (F), DON CORBETT (S), BOB GILLESPIE (S), JOHN F. McMAHON (S), GORDON BENNETT (J), XfAtmiCE CON­LEY (J), JOHN SHEEDY (J) and FRED SWTT­ZER (S). 

The following classmates have a total of 12 sons enrolled in Engineering: TOM BYRNE (F), ^GERALD LUDWG (F), HAYES MURPHY (F). 
•DICK TRANT (F), ED McCLARNON (S), TOM NOON (S), RON RICH (S), HENRY MASSMAN fS), AL SCHNURR (S), ED THOMAN (S), BURT TOEPP (S), SWEDE SCHROEDER (S). 
The College of Commerce has a total of 11 sons of the followint: classmates enrolled: JOHN CAR­LIN (S), JOSEPH HEBERT (S), GUS JENKINS (S), BOB MASSMAN (S), FRANCIS BEGGAN (J), PAT CANNY (J), PETE GALLAGHER (J), GEORGE HANEY (J), JOHN LEIT2INGER (J), . JOHN WOULFE (J) and PHIL CENEDELLA (S). j<«^ Sons- of the following four classmates are en­
^rolled in Science: DR. MARCUS FARRELL (F), HENRY HASLEY fF), DR. BILL McGEE (J), and NORB SEIDENSTICKER (J). 
HENRY MASSNL\N is the only classmate with two sons at Notre Dame at present. You will note that the sons of the following three deceased classmates are included in the above list. FRANK BEGGAN, JOE HEBERT, and JOHN McMAHON. 
MIKE RICKS has twin sons in their last year at Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame. 

It is interesting to note that exactly 50% of the sons in Engineering, Science, and Arts and Letters ivare enrolled in the same College in the University 
 Cahill who ser^'cd as master of ceremonies. 
as were their fathers. Only a litde over a third of the sons enrolled in Commerce are sons of Commerce graduates. Please let me know if the list of sons of '28 men at N. D. is not complete. Since I am having a jurisdictional dispute with DON PLUNKETT, Secretary of the Class of 1929, concerning 1929 lawyers, their sons are not in­cluded in this list. 
I am sorry to hear from ED QUINN that RON RICH sufTered a slight stroke at Christmas time. It is good to kno^v, however, that he has recovered from it quite well. Ron, as you all know, is Head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame. I noted Ron*s name recently in WHO'S WHO IN ENGINEERING. 
Our Class President, FRANK CRE^VDON, at­tended a national meeting of the American Mos­quito Control Association in Texas in Fefamary. Frank is advertising manager of the Mosquito Nc^vs and is chairman of the Illinois Legislative Committee of the Association. Frank reports that he had a good session with CHRISTIE FLANA­G/\N in Port Arthur, Texas. Christie's two daugh­ters, who are graduates of St. Mary's College at Notre Dame, each married Notre Dame men. Christie now has t^vo grandchildren. He expects to have a son at N. D. next year. Frank also reported that PAT CANNY, Genera! Attorney for the Erie Railroad Co., was in Houston conducting a hearing. 

The listing of so many sons of '28 men at N. D. raises a question as to what extent they are getting together. The only case which has been brought to mv attention is that of the sons of GUS JENKINS and DON CORBETT who roomed together last year. I also know that GORDON BENNETT'S son at N. D. visits at FRANK CREADON'S home in Riverside, III., with Frank's son and daughters. Frank's oldest daughter is at Rosary College. BILL JONES' daughter, Barbara, had a date with BILL DOWDALL'S son after the Iowa game last year. Speaking of BILL DOW­DALL reminds me that his silver wedding anni­^•ersaxy is on June 27, My son, "nm, has as one of his eighth grade classmates. Nan Rodgers, the daughter of JOHN RODGERS, an attorney in Chicago who was with our class for two years. Maybe I can get the sons and daughters of *28 men interested enough in the column to send me some news. Incidentally, did you know the following classmates are brothers-in-law: ROGER BRESLIN and JACK ^VINGERTER; JOE BRAUNSDORF and JIM BERRY; and BILL 
LEAHY and DR. JOHN GOCKE. Are there others who should be added to this list? 
I see ED McKEOWN who has his law offices in the Banker's Building ^vhere we have our Department of Labor Regional office. Ed has a daughter who is a sophomore at St. Mary's College at Notre Dame. Ed's mother passed away a few months ago. I called at the morttmry at the time and expressed the sympathy of the dass. 
Father MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C. did his usual excellent job in arranging the well attended afiniin] Labor-Mauagemcnt Conference at Notre Dame in February. I missed seeing LEO WALSH and MIKE RICKS at the conference this year, as X hav? bad sessions with them at prior conferences. 
BILL KIRWAN and I got together when he was in Chicago for the Furniture Mart. As you know. Bill has a furniture store in Iowa City, Iowa. His son is at the University of Iowa and his daughter is attending an interior decorating school in Chicago. 
Some friends from LaCrosse told me of the great job done for the community by AUGIE GRAMS as Chainnan of the Board responsible for erecting an auditorium which was dedicated several months ago. Augie has four daughters, ages 21 to 25. Two are employed in Chicago, one teaching in St. Paul, and the youngest a Junior at the University of Wisconsin. I have also received some excellent reports on the work being done by JOSEPH DOYLE with the ^Vis­consin State EmplojTuent Service in LaCrosse, Wis­consin. Joe has four children between the ages of 15 and 25 and four grandchildren. One daughter is a nurse at St. Mary's Hospital in ^fadlson, \Visconsin, and another was graduated in Journal­ism last year from ^farquet:e University. 
HUDSON JEFFREY is an attorney in Ironton, Ohio. He has a daughter at the University of Cincinnati and another at Georgetown Visitation, Washington, D. C. 
JACOB GILBERT, an attorney in Columbus, Ohio, is Chairman of the Israel Bond Committee of Cohmibus. He is also past president of the Ohio Valley Zionist District. Jacob has two children ages II and . 16. He mentioned that ED MORIARTTY of Columbus has a son on Aqui­nas' football team. 
ART GLEASON, staff superintendent mth 

B. F. Goodrich Rubber Company in Akron, has joined the grandfather ranks. He has four chil­dren, ages 15 to 25. One daughter teaches in South Bend. 
JOHN WOULFE, who was with our class for two years, is in the printing business, the Clyde Printing Company in Chicago. John has four chil­dren, ages 14 to 2!. His oldest daughter is a senior at St. Mary's, Notre Dame, and his oldest son a Junior at Notre Dame. John was a room­mate at Notre Dame of MIKE HcGEOGHEGAN. Mike is Assistant Deputy Commissioner in Chicago of the Bureau of the Public Debt, U. Si. Treas­tiry Department. 
Our traveling class president, FRANK CREA­DON, cpialified for a vacation m Hollywood Beach, Florida, this winter by selling o%'er a million dollars worth of insurance for the Metropolitan Life la* 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 41 
JOHN F. MORLEY, '35 

John F. Morley. '35, has recently been promoted to Central regional sales manager of the Pabst Brewing Com­pany in Chicago, 111. John joined llie Pabst organization in 1941 as a sales­man and serv^ed in this capacity until entering the service in 1943. During World AVar 11, he was a lieutenant in the Naval Air Force and served three years in the South Pacific. Upon his discharge in 1947, he rejoined the Pabst Company. Last year he assumed additional sales duties as assistant East-em sales manager. 
He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, is now a vice-president, and has been on the board of directors for several years. Among the various clubs and oi-ganizations to which he belongs are the Illinois Ath­letic Club, the Groceiy Manufacturers' Sales Executives' Club and the Bever­age and Equipment Sales Executives' Club. He and his wife, the former Mai^aret Crowe, have three sons, John. James and Kevin. 
surance Company. Frank talked with TOM TRAUGHBER in Clarksville, Tennessee, on his way to Florida. The last time I saw Tom he was very much interested in the candidacy of Estcs Kefauvcr for President. FRANK CREADON also had a vacation in Colorado as a member of the "Presidents Club" of the Metropolitan Life In­surance Company. Frank called Father JIM Mc-SHANE in Denver, but Fatiier was busy at the time rehearsing a group foi a St. Patrick's show. Frank observed that he was pleased to know that Father is still following his theatrical talents. 
\Vc had lunch with BILL JONES recently in Chicago on his return from California. Bill's only brother, Jim, died suddenly from a heart attack on March 13 in Stockton, California. Jim was a student at Notre Dame in 1929-30. 
Some of you may remember RAY HILLIARD 

42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1956 
who was at X.D. from 1925 to 1928. Ray is Cook 
County Wcirarc Director in Chicago. He is also 
doing excellent work as a member of the Board 
of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
JIM CONNER died on January 3, 1956 follow­ing surgery in Elwood, Indiana. Jim had been bedridden for a number of years as a wctlm of multiple sclerosis. In spite of his handicap, he ran his ice and coal business from his bed. He suf­fered a cerebral hemorrhage a year ago which left him completely paralj-red. He is sur\'ived by his wife, Margaret, and two daughters at home and a son serving in the tJ. 5. Marines. Although Jim received his B.S.C. degree in 1929, he requested some years ago to be listed in the Class of 1928. JOE DEBOTT \isited Jim two years ago. 
I have asked our Class Treasurer, JOHN 
SHEEDY, to arrange for a Mass for Jim. Please 
remember him in your prayers. 
Don't forget tliat dale we have in June 1958 is only tw3 years away. From the letters I have received I am convinced that our 30th reunion will be even greater than our 25th—-which broke all records. 
In the meantime, I have arranged for a cocktail party for the '28 men and their friends after the Oklahoma game on October 27. It will be held immediately after tlie game at the Donor's Room (adjacent to lobby) in the Morris Inn. Be sure and order tickets for the Oklahoma game and plan for your group to join us after the game in a 28­ycar reunion for the Class of *28. Let me hear from you if you arc willing to help in promoting this get-together. Also write your classmates to meet you at the '28 cocktail party at the Morris Inn after tlie Oklalioma game, October 27, 1956. 
1 929 Donald J. Plunkctt 
Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

ROSCOE BONJEAN js the endorsed candidate of the regular Demi>cratic organization of Illinois for lieutenant governor. Mr. and Mrs. Bonjean have one daughter fourteen years old. 
PETER A. BURKHART is teaching in the Woodsfield, Ohio, High School. 
From San Dicco comes the report of the death of the wife of E.\IMET McCABE on Feb. 16 of cancer in suburban Grossmont Hospital. Tlie late Mrs. McCabe, 43, was one of Bishop Fulton J. Sheen's first secretaries in Washington, D. C. During his 1936 visit as Cardinal Pacelli, Mrs. McCabe was secretary to Pope Pius XII. Until her last illness, Mrs. McCabe was active in charit­able work in San DJcgo County. Emmett is di­rector of advertising and community relations in San Diego for Convair Division of General D>Tiam­
ics, 
1 930 Deverc Plunkett 
O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

FRANK X. O'NEIL, as chairman of the Long Beach Orange County Catholic Welfare Bureau, was in\ited to attend thf; Fourth Governors Con­ference on Children and Youth held in Sacramento, California. 
LEO McALOON is still operating a funeral home in Pawtuckct, Rhode Island and serving as racing steward at the tracks. 
James T. Doyle 

1931 
902 Oakton Street 
Evanston, Illinois 

(Ed. Note: Tliis issue is scheduled for mailing one week prior to Reunion so all news items of that big weekend will be printed later.) 
As I sit here surrounded by letters and memos of telephone calls from local classmates, I cannot help but feel that the efforts of all those helpful and loyal '31ers on the committee are going to pay off June 8th. I have received many letters list­ing those called or written and judging from the response we should have close to 250 members of our class on hand for our reunion. Our Mass and Reunion Fund has been enlarged through additional contributions from \'ERN KNOX, EDDIE RYAN, AL STEPAN, CHxVRLEY GEHERIN and JIM .MULVANEY. 
Among one of the early reser\"ations in to Jim Armstrong's reser\-ation desk was that of JOHN ^\'EIBLER who also sent me a note. 
Dear Jim: 
Just a short note to let you know that I plan to be on hand for the 25-YEAR REUNION OF THE CLASS OF 1931. Altliough I have been back to the campus a few times during stmamer vaca-
THOMAS R. ASHE, '31 • 

Thomas R. Ashe gxaduated from Notre Dame in 1931 and is now vice president and export manager of Globe Oil Tools Company. A native of Os­wego, N. Y., Tom has lived in \Vliit­
tier, Calif., for many yeare. He joined the Globe Company in 1939 as adver-^ tising manager and for some years functioned as their purchasing agent. In 1943 he accepted a commission in the U. S. Nav)' as communications specialist and was discharged two years later after having served on a battle cruiser. 
Tom is a past-iJrcsident of llie Los Angeles Notre Dame Alumni Club, a% member of the N.D. Monogram Club,, and fonnerly was governor of the Notre Dame Foundation in California. 
Two brothers also attended the Uni­versity prior to Tom's matriculation at Notre Dame. Gerald "Kid" Ashe was graduated in 1922 and Edmund is a member of the 1925 Class. ^ 
Tom and his wife are tlie parents of twins, Michael and Maureen, and their home address is 715 Avalon Road, Whittier, Calif. 
lious, 1 have never attended a reunion, so you can appreciate that I am looking fonvard to again sitting in on a few bull sessions, and renewing.* friendsiiips with fellows, many of whom I have not seen for 25 years. 
Since GIL SEAMAN moved to Oak Park, I guess I am the only member of the Class of *31 living in Elmhurst, so will probably have to make the trip to and from N.D. alone. 
Very seldom do I sec any of the fellows of our class, but a few weeks ago I saw TED HUEBSCH of I^aGrange, and he mentioned that he occasionally sees BOB BAER and FR/VNK CHAMBERS also of LaGrange. 
—John O. Wcibler 

GRAND RAPIDS—Father T. J, O'Donnell, C.S.C., Associate Director of the Notre Dame Foundation and guest speaker ou UND Night, accepts the club's unrestricted gift of §600 to the University. Left to right: Outgoing president Joseph Moore; Father 
I O'DonncII; president-elect Charles W. Duffy. 
I have asked John to check his 1931 DOME and contact band members to get together and act as our musical escort to the Alumni Banquet. In early March I talked lo DON OTOOLE who promised to contact de c Club members for our Memorial Mas; as well as providing some music under the Lyons arch. Don has a son at Loros College, Dubuque, Iowa (treason?) who in addi­

•''^jfction to his school work is one of the youngest disk jockeys on the air. At present he broadcasts "Top Tunes with O'TooIe'* 42 hours a week on WDBQ Don also was elected lo the presidency of Pullman Trust and Savings Bank last January. The three 0*TooIc banks now employ a total of nine Notre Dame men. 
From JIM and MARIE McQUAID their more recent note: 

The Alumni letter about Reunion arrived yester­t^day, and Jim had me hasten to send in his reserva­
tion .. . he is certainly looking forward to this week-end with a great deal of antidpation. Jim ij to receive an .Award presented by the local Eagles Lodge (and I understand this is being done throughout the U. S. by other Lodges) on Monday the 19th. . . . The letter announcing it read as follows: "On Monday, March 19, 1955 you will be presented the Eagles Achievement Award given to a person who has inspired others by surmount­ing a physical handicap." 
—^Jim and Marie McQuaid 

In an earlier letter they wrote that they had contacted VER.V and FR^VNCIS HENNEBERGER, MARIE and HEINE KOPEK and a few others who are also planning on bringing their wives. It looks like a lot of gals will be having a lively time at the Inn. The ED SHEERANS and BUD GIES are planning on making it t^vosomes from the far west also. JACK DEMPSEY has now recovered from his illness and is doing his share in writing Wisconsinites and sends the following: 
Dear Jim: 

Please excuse my delay in answ^ering your request to handle Wisconsin for our class reunion. I have been out of the ofHce since November due to illness. If you do not have somebody else by now I will be glad to do it. 
I plan to attend the reimion and let my vtiSe have sole custody of our nine children while I am there, ^fy eldest son, Tom, has enrolled for the fall of 1956, and my second son, Jerry, is enrolling in 1957. My other five sons will enroll in due time. 
—Jack 

I met WALT KELLEY downtown yesterday and he is returning wth JOHN MAHONEY, VERN KNOX and OLIVER FIELDS from Crystal Lake. PHIL ANGSTEN is planning on driving down with FRXSK HOLLAND and RED OXONNELL. I hope BOB JOYCE is coming from Rockford. FR. MATTHEW W.ALSH gave me some information of many of the priests we knew in school. FR. MULCAIRE is now at Columba HaU, FR. MA­LONEY was ill and in the infirmary. FR. AHLT­NER is now situated in Portland, Oregon. FR. H.AGGERTY is now in New Orleans and FR. DOHERTY of Badin Hall is in Chile. FR. MAR-GRiVF, as I mentioned before, has his own parish, St. Mary*s, in South Bend. From CHARLIE GEHERIN, Auburn, New York, comes the follow­ing news: 
Dear Jim: After twenty-five yean, I wonder how many of the fellows of that famous class would now be known to me. There is a very vivid mental picture of so many of the real men whom I knew so well and with whom I have never kept in contact, you are among them both personally and in your offi­cial capacity as class secretary. While I have not been active on a national plane, I have managed to keep well occupied in the activi­ties of the Central New York Club. Since Chicago took JIM MULVANEY away from us, we have very fc\v '31er$ around. Maybe I shouldn't be too hasty because as I stop to think we have t^vo '3lers running the aiTairs of the city. Our Mayor is HERB ANDERSON and the Corporation Counsel is GEORGE SHAMON. Both are very successful and highly respected members of the legal pro­fession. Enclosed is a small check to be applied to the Mass fund. This, too, has been negligence on my part; because with each issue of the .ALUM­NUS I always say I must get that check out along with a note. Here it xs and may I not be neg­ligent again. 
—Charlie Gcherin 

Didn*t we have a J.AMES P. DOYLE in our freshman class who w^s from Auburn? Many thanks, Charlie, for your check to the M & R Fund. 
JOHNNIE BURNS has been busy writing and phoning '31 men in his area. 
Dear Jim. Got both your letters this week. It was good to know that definite action Is under way at last— and that it wll continue until the get-together in June. For a time, you had me worried at the lack of Tihirbs* anent the reunion. That '28 class had about ten notices to their members at this 
time! And from what the boys tell me who made that 25th—it paid off by being the very best to date. Funny about BILL FLAHAVEN, DAVE NASH 
and DICK LACY. I knew Bill's folks in Bridgeport but haven't heard from them in years. I wrote a note to CHARLIE SPINELLI inquiring if he knew Bill's address or whereabouts. Used to run into Dick in Brooklyn when he was with Traveler's In­surance here. I thought he had returned to the main ofiice in Hartford. Met Dave Nash several times in Nev/ York years ago—but have no idea where he might be at present. 'Wasn't Dave 
from Pittsburgh??? 
The stationery is eye catching, Jim. Is this the usual class stationery advised by the Alumni Asso­ciation? I was wondering if it ^^•as printed at school or in Chicago. 
That's it for now, Jim. Keep up the good work —and I know that it entails quite a bit of that. If there is anything I can do from this area, don't hesitate to ivrite. My best to you and your family; say *hcllo' to any of the Chi boys you may run into—and by the wny ^VH.\TEVZK did become of the Brule???? 
—^John 

LOU BUCKLEY, secretary of the class of '28, is phenomenal. Comparing our measly efforts at Reunion promotion ^vith his makes us look like pikers. Regarding the "eye-catching stationery" 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June'July, 1955 43 
NEW ORLEANS—Fardcipants attending the alumni club's luncheon for the Irish basketball team at the Sugar Bowl tourney included: (seated, left to right) Coach Johnny Jordan; Club Prexy Peter Hilbert; Alabama Coach John Dee; and James Smith, club vice-president. Standing, left to right: Foundation Governor Jules K. dc la Vcrgnc; Claude E. Simons, chairman of the Sugar Bowl basketball committee; 
ND player John Smyth; ND captain John Fannon; and Allen Ecuyer, frosh grid 
it was furnished with the compliments of RAY COLLINS who has filled in before on this. CARL CROXIN and EDDIE RYAN arc working on some Reunion promotion ideas which they promised to send to the ALUMNUS for publication. Carl has re­cently become associated with McKay & Poaguc, Inc., Realtors, in their Flossmore office. Carl ran into a long lost '31 man, HARRY LOCKE, who plans on making the Reunion. 
I had a note from BILL KARLj Washington, 

D. C , and it looks like tlic capital will be repre­sented by MCK ANDERSON, JIM KEARNEY and Bill. I think Jim should break down occa­sionally with a letter as the only way I can keep track of htm is through his brother, Bill, or BERT KORZEN and DICK PHALIN, whom I meet fre­quently downtown. FRANK SEWARD and DICK GIROUX indicate they may be unable to be pres­ent. I hope JIM KEARNEY will contact JOHN FORD MEAGHER and be sure he is coming. TOM ASHE will try to make the Reunion even tliough he is going the long way around: 
Dear Jim and Kay: I know that Jim is busy trying to get his gang together for the big reunion in June, and I promise to get real busy next week to contact as many of the '31 alumni as possible. JACK SAUNDERS is already busy and I believe that I have heard from him on two different occasions. As per the solemn promise of last October I still hope to be back on the campus with you, but will have to do some fancy traveling !n order to make it. Perhaps if there is a prize for the one coming the longest distance I might even get that, so will give you an idea of my itinerary as follows: Am IcaWng here the week of the 15th of April for South America, with the first stop in Caracas; thenc'*, Barcelona, Anaco, over to Trinidad for a few days, then west again to Tvlaracaibo, into Colombia for \isit5 to Bogota and Cucuta, south to Peru for a few days in Talara and Lima. From Lima I proceed to New York by way of Miami, and after ten da^'s or two weeks there will itart for the west coast—but naturally a weekend at Notre Dame. There might be changes in the 
44 Notre Dame AlumnuSj June-July, 1956 
foregoing, but those are my present plans at any rate. The best to you, —Tom 
I have received several routine letters from JACK SAUNDERS together with copies of letters sent to him. The Alumni Office has also received letters and reser\-ations from BILL CHAWGOj PAUL KOPROWSKI, L. J. MacINTYRE of BiU­ings, Montana, TONY SCHREINER, now of East Chicago, will be there with AUSTIN BOYLE and BERT METZGER. Bert was recently promoted from manager of the central wholesale division to sales supervisor at Botvman Dairy Co. FRANK LEAHY sent a note indicating he will be on hand part of the time. BOURKE MOTSETT, our esteemed reverend, promises to be on hand with RALPH DALTON, JOHN BELTON and TOM MONAHAN. While in that area why not bring along JOE MEITZLER and PAUL GRANT. JIM MULVANEY and JOE BLANEY will show. MOON MULLINS sent a note last month: "I'll be there for the Silver Anniversary and I am eagerly look­ing fon%'ard to it. Looking over the names on the Committee I see enough people whom I know will really have things confused before we leave TufTy Ryan's old hauuts in Lyons Hall. I am sending a copy of this letter to Jim Armstrong for a reservation. I will be representing four hundred years of Jesuit education from ^larquette University. I hope all of you appreciate the dig­nity I Avill add to the occasion." 
EARL BRIEGER is hard at work corruling the western Pennsylvania alumni and sent his report a few weeks ago: "I have just received your letters regarding the reunion in June and wish to con­gratulate you on your efforts in. making our re* union a real success. I was talking to JOHN HICKEY the other day regarding the '31crs around here, and we planned to corral them all and get them out to school for the reunion. In November I wrote you a rather lengthy missal with a suggestion regarding our gift to be made to the University at this reunion. I did not hear from you, and I assume your committee did not think 
 star at home for the holidays. , ^ 
much of the idea. As suggested in your letter, I shall make my reservation with the Ahimni Of­fice, and in any event, mark me down as being there, as I certainly intend to do so if at all pos­sible. With best regards to you and all the gang." 
WALTER PHILLIP is studying for the priest­hood in Old College on the campus. Walt's wife died several years ago and I belie%'e he has a son living in Kalamazoo, Alichigan. ^ 
TOM GOLDEN writes from Anaconda, Montana ' that he ^WU be unable to make the reunion: "Just a line to let you know not to look for me at our Silver Jubilee reunion. I am now totally and permanently disabled and don't seem to be able to do anything. I have lost the use of my left hand due to the effects of Parkinson's disease. The 
V. A. gave me a statutory award for my left hand which entitled me to $1,600 on a new irar, so I have a new 1956 Dodge, but since I depend wholly on my compensation I won't have tho money to make the trip. Good luck, Jim ^nd have a great time." Tom's address is Box 1412.^ Anaconda, Montana. I am sure he would enjoy hearing from many of his friends whom he will be unable to see in June. 
BUD GIES writes: "I have made many plans to attend former '31 reunions, only to have my plans go wrong at the last minute. I am going to be at this one if I have to crawl. You fellows "back east" are lucky to be able to occasionally renew old N. D. acquaintances. I have seen few old classmates over the years. ED SHEERAN visited us and CARL GAENNSLEN, called me several years ago and that is about a.^' far as '31ers go. I see other N. D. men occasion­ally. Have had letters from ED FLYNN, Sharran. and of course, the thoughtful letters from JACK SAUNDERS and JIM DOYLE. Haven't been to South Bend since 1939 and I can see that the campus has chang=d much more since then than before. Jim, I hate to ask for information as I know everyone is very busy, but all the reunion information omits anything regarding the wives. Jean and I plan on making an extensive trip, and so, she will be with me. We both know that I will be VERY BUSY and I am concerned with ^ 
HARRISBURG—^Principal spcalcer at the club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner was 
G. Franklin McSorley, '25, Chairman of the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission. Left to 
right: Ed^vard R. Eckenrode, Jr., '46, "Man-of-the-Year" recipient; McSorley; Rev. Francis A. Kirchner, club chaplain; and John W. Davis, '32, president. 
!icr welfare ivlulc I am BUSY. Hope you can spare me a few lines regarding whether the wives will be included in the regular activities. Hope to sec you at the reunion, also ED FLYNN, BUD TOUHY, ED LABARTHE, JOE DUNNE and many others. Sorry I can't contribute any ideas, but will try to contribute my moral support." 
^Vs mentioned earlier, Bud, there will be several wives returning with their husbands. I am sure Vwe will have a program worked out for them and that they can be included in campus tours to the new buildings. Grotto, Sacred Heart Church, etc. I had a note from TOM MONAHAN asking for a room for himself and SPIKE SULLIVAN. While south recently, he saw FREDDIE RAHAIM In Jacksonville and FRANCIS HENNEBERGER in Princeton, Indiana, both of whom will be present. BILL MORPHY has written PAUL GUSHING, HAROLD STELZER, BERNARD McGLONE, CLIFF FISHER and GENE VALLEE about getting togetlier for the reunion. Con­gratulations on your wonderful family of eight, 
.JBiU. 
' FATHER JIM DONNELLY. *33, St. Mary's Missions, Lampasas, Texas, sent me a letter in response to my request for a Mass for JIM RICH. He has been actively engaged in a substantial building program, which, he hopes, may be com­pleted this year. Olive Gets Harcombe, St. Mary's College, and her husband, Ray, were at our house for dinner one evening when something came up about Father Jim. It turned out that Ray Harcombe and Jim Donnelly were in grammar school together so nothing would do except to 
-^call him in Texas at, I hope, a not too late hour. 
* The Alumni Office sent a letter saying that DAN CLARK, our local arrangements chairman, would not be a\-ailable Reunion weekend due to prior out of town commitments. 
GEORGE JACKOBOICE sent a post card to the Ahimni Office, from Florence, Italy on March 12. 
AL KOLSKI has recently received a 15 year service pin with Allstate Insunmce Company. Al's address is South Shore Lane, Lake Zurich, Illinois. 

^ AVith the help of five assistants he administers "'•JlAonc of the largest of the company's nation-wide network of claim departments. 
193 2 J^™^ ^- Collins '•• ^ 3336 Kenmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
FRANK F. OBERKOETTER has been ap­pointed manager of the Professional Sensitize Goods Sales Division of the Eastman Kodak Com­pany. His address is 113 Buckland Avenue, Brigh­
ton, N. Y. 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabc 
632 Forest Avenue 
River Forest, Illinois 
PROFESSOR JOHN SHEEHAN of NoUe Dame was the featured speaker at the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick's Dinner held at Udca, N. Y. 
JOHN PICK lectured at the Royal University of Malta. Under a Fulbright Scholarship he has been offered an extension of the scholarship to lecture at the University of London. He also is to receive an honorary doctor's degree from the Royal University. Dr. Pick is professor of English at Marquette U. The announcement has also been made^ that John will be married to Marchesa Cecelia Zimmermann Barboro, formerly of Chicago. 
Just received the following wire from prcxy GEORGE ROHRS: 
SUGGEST YOU WRITE CLASS ON FUND RAISING FOR CLASS ^fAILINGS AND OTHER 
PREPARATIONS FOR CLASS GIFT. I LIKE O'SHAUGHNESSY'S PLAN. Now let me key you in on the full meaning of George's wire. 
The big news is that JOHN O^HAUGH­NESSY and JACK HOYT will act as co-chairmen for the Big Reunion. We are fortunate to have two experienced, energetic men in the class who will asstune the responubtlity for getting our re­union plans off the ground and winging. 
O'Shaughnessy's plan, mentioned in the mre, is that ever>-one in the class give a dollar for everr year he has been out of school—in other words, let's all be "DOLLAR A YEAR MEN!" 
The first need is for an operating fund in order to get money enough for mailings, to keep class members informed of what's going on and where. So—kick in, lads! 
Send your contributions to treasurer JOHN CAHILL, Cahill Electric Company, Dixon, 111. ^failings are expensive business, but there is no substitute for them as an aid to keeping affairs in operation—^whether it is a business or a re­union campaign! 
All us landlubbers can -learn a lesson from the Navy, 
From wherever old Task Force Forty Three is anchored, BILL HAWKES sends a brief note AND a donation to help the wheels get rolling. BUI says: 
"Have been out of the continental limits for awhile and mail just caught up with me. 
See by the last ALUMNUS that funds are being solicited for 1958. Here's my contribution and if the average is more let me know." 
Many thanks Bill and best of luck to you! If some of you wish to drop Bill Hawks a line here's his address: Cdr. Bill Hawkes, U.S. Atlantic Fleet Task Force Forty Three Rm. 831 Old Post Office BIdg., 12th and Pcasyl\-ania Ave., Wash­ington 25, D. C. Now if the rest of the class %vill follo\ir Bill's example we can weigh anchor on the first mailing. But you gotta GIVE. And when you send yonr contribution enclose a few news notes with it. And don't forget to remember your classmates in your prayers and rosaries. 
193 4 ^- Edward Carey 18843 Inglcwood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
193 5 Franklyn C. Hochrcitcr 
• ^^ 1327 Pcntwood Road Baltimore, Maryland 

Well, gang, this is our first time for a column ' since late in '55. ^Ve had no material for the ALUMNUS ^vhich you received recently, so the 
HOUSTON—^Principals at Universal Notre Dame Night observance included (from left): Don O'Brien, '42, president of the Notre Dame Club of Houston; Mrs. Leo E. Linbcck, presi­dent of the Ladies' Au.\iliary; Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice president for academic af­fairs at Notre Dame, guest of honor and principal speaker; and Thomas A. Standish, '35, chairman and master of ceremonies. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1956 
FRANCIS M. PAYNE, '39 

Francis M. Payne, '39, former run­ning-mate of Greg Rice, Notre Dame's great t%vo-miler during the late thirties, was recently elected to Ohio's first Board of Education. 
Francis is one of three Catholics to 

comprise the 23-member board elected 
from Ohio Congressional Districts. He 
received 29,000 votes to 20,000 over 
his next closest opponent, of which 
there were four running for the oflSce. 
The Board is a non-partisan, non­salaried oiganization, but due to its broad control over public, parochial and private education in Ohio, it is a very important office. 
Francis' prime duty is senior partner of the law firm Payne & Hennann along with younger brother, Frederick J., '42. He has also been admitted to practice in the Supreme Court of the United States and the U. S. Court of Military Appeals in Washington. Two other brothers are Notre Dame grads, the Rev. John T. Payne, C.S.C., '40, and Matthew A., '41. 
Francis, a Cleveland resident, was married to the former Mary Frances Lindesmith in 1947 and they now have five children: Patricia Ann, 7; Michael, 6; Christopher, 3; Jan Marie, 2; and Colleen, 11 months. 
notes you read were set up by the ofiice on campus. BUT THIS TIME ^VE ARE BACK ON THE BEAM! 
In the past three months mail has come in from "lost souls/' from the ^^campaign committee" and from your ever faithful President and Treas­urer. As we sit here on this bright Easter after-con, with a Gibson at our side and the window 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
open, the table is full of notes. Even the class 
of '35 resurrected itself for the Spring column. 
First of all—we knov/ that you are w*aiting to 
hear hew the class dues campaign is progressing. 
Yesterday an airmail letter from DAN YOUNGER­
MAN, our Treasurer, brought us the latest report. 
Ninety-two men have contributed $450. This repre­
sents almost a fifth of the class. We seem to have 
picked up a number of men \v'ho wish to be 
identified with the '35 crowd as the latest count 
for our roster is 546. 
You may recall that we told you a year ago that 527 were in our origi.i3l gang. Over 30 have died, and yet we now count 546. Our total is taken from the rosten of Jie four Vice-Presidents whose lists number as follows: ANDY NfAFFEI (East)—177; ED VAN HUISSELING (Mid-west) —273; CAMILLE GRAVEL (South)—45; and PHIL PURCELL (Far West)—51. 
How did the '35crs respond to PAUL FERGUS' letter of January 21? Well, here they are! CAMILLE GRAVEL was first and PHIL PUR­CELL was second—two of our Veeps! Not far behind came the third Veep—and his was the first $25 contribution—ANDY MAFFEL The fourth Veep ED VAN HUISSELING, was only a few da>'3 longer in making his mark count. You men around the country can be sure that your Vice-Presidents arc on the ball to make the class Twenty-Fifth Reunion a financial success. Let's back them up! 
And here is how the 92 shape up. We give them to you as reported by the Treasurer in five letters covering six weeks. 
$25—ANDY MAFFEI, and PHIL ARNHEITER. SIO-CAMILLE GRAVEL, ART CONRAD, JIM HAMILTON, BILL A. KENNEDY, TOM 0\VEN, BILL BERN'BROCK, JOHN BREEN, PAT FISHER, BOB LEE, BOB MAHER, BILL PFEIL, PHIL PURCELL, BILL BURKE, DAN CUNHA, JIM JENNINGS, AL MCCARTHY, ED VAN HUISSELING, JIM HOWARD, BILL BERNARD, GENE O'BRIEN, GENE O'REILLY, ROY SCHOLZ, JOE ARGUS, AL VITTER and JOHN KREBSER. $6—NATE LERMAN and ED SMITH. $5—TONY CROWLEV, FRANK VEE (VUC­KOVICH), and FRANK MATAVOSKY. $4—CARL LINK and CHET CHANDLER. $2—JOHN ALLEN, BILL BARLOW, JIM CRONIN, "J. C." DUDLEY, JACK DUFFEY, NEIL FARRELL, JOHN FITZPATRICK, JOHN KAVANAUGH, ED LEONARD, BILL (JIM) McCRALEY, BILL MOSS, PAT QUIGLEY, BILL RYAN, WALT TYLLTTKI, JOE -WISCHNIA, GEORGE BARBER, JIM CARRICO, LOUIS FAUTSCH, ELMER GURY, JOHN HIGGINS, GORDON KR.AUSS, TOM LaLONDE, BERT LISS, WALT MATUS, BILL MURRAY, PAUL 
NOCKELS, JOHN PORCORO, TOM PROCTOR, 
MIKE SANTULLI, BILL SCHRODER, JOH m SHANER, BOB SIMMONS, CLAUDE TOUREK ^ 
ART CAREY, BILL HEARN, DAN HENRY, DICK HYDE, BILL OTTE, JIM PICK, WES STREHL, SPENCE WALTON, FRANK HOCH­REFTER, TOM FLYNN, JOHN HELMER, WADE KELLEHER, JOHN LANG, JOHN MORLEY, JI.M SHEILS, DAN YOUNGERMAN, PAUL FERGUS, JOE BEACH, CHARLIE WILLIAM­SON, BERNIE O'BRIEN, DON JACOBI, STAN 
ROSENSTEIN, BILL FARRELL and TOM YOUNG. ^ 
$1—BOB KNAPP.\IEN. There you have it! We are off to a terrific start on the first go-a-round but %ve have to keep plug­ging if we are going to get a 100% cooperation from all '35ers for the first year of our dues campaign. About the time you receive this ALUM­NUS you will be getting another mailing from the Campaign Committee, (only those who have not paid their dues) and we hope that the rest of you will slip that t\%'o bucks in that self-addressed, stamped envelope and shoot it back to the Treasurer. Let's make this a real CLAS^^ PARTICIPATION PROJECT! ^ 
A word about the amount of contribution for dues is in order, we think. As you all know the FERGUS letter said, quoting DAN YOUNGER­MAN, "Ww need at least two bucks a year from each guy, starting this year." That was the plan —$2 a man a year for five years. Naturally, we are delighted with the additional contribution from 34 of you. We don't know if you mean to pro­rale your additional ante over the five-year span. If you do, please let DAN know it so he can post your account accordingly. ^ ^ 
Incidentally, we want to be completely honesU^ with you all. We were told this could not be done: that is, an annual dues of $2 per man for five years. Do you realize w*hat this will mean in '60? It will mean $5,000 in the pot at the time of our 25th Reunion. The 25th means the Silver Anniversary for all of us '35ers. It marks the milestone for our class with the University. We arc the President's guests at dinner. BUT, it means a more expensive Reunion for us, too. £ver>' class has kicked in a large sack to the Foundation. 
Let's take one class as an example. The '28 men did not start raising money until the yea-^ i of their 25th anniversary. Two different fundj" were being accumulated at the same time—one for Reunion and another for their Foundation gift. A total of 294 contributed a total of $14,000 to the Foundation that year, or about $48 per con­tributor. And they had about a 609& participation. (Hope you don't mind our using your figures, Lou)! This has been used as the class to beat. 
TRI-CITIES—Rev. Joseph Barry, CS.C, was principal speaker at the club's Communior ^ , Breakfast on April 8. From left to right: Father Barry; George VanderVennet, outgoing"' ' president; and Emmett Keenan, new president. 
WELL, YOU '35crs—DO WE DO IT THE EASY 

gAVAY, OR THE HARD WAY! Wc have not been 
Secon d raters since wc got out. Let's keep us out front! 
Oh yes, want to know how wc shaped up on contributions to date by amount? Well, here it is: 525-2; 510—23; 56-2; 55—3; 5t—2; 52—57; and 51—1. Again, the total—92 men and 5450 in cash. 
How did your officers spend YOUR money? Well, here is the expense statement. 
Balance, January 1, 1956 (from Reunion). .5113.68 

• Receipts, through March 31, 1956 . 450.00 TOTAL .5563.68 
Miscellaneous Treasurer's Supplies ...g 13.02 Postage and Government Cards 25.08 Printing Co. for staU'onery 137.00 Requiem Masses . 10.00 TOTAL 5185.10 

NET BALANCE ON HAND, APRIL 1, 1936 537838 
The stationery? AVell, if most of you feel that it is an unnecessary expenditure may wc say that 

Mt is custom now wita the University. Wc have letters from several Class Secretaries. The only difference is color of paper, or layout of letterhead. If the "youngsters" can afford a class letterhead .—why shouldn't wc? 
So much for the oiScial financial statement! Now, we are curious about a few of the gang w*ho seem to have disappeared. The following are UNCLAIMED with "no known addresses." Can you help us? Won't you please look in your local telephone directories to sec if any o! these men arc listed? If you lind their names, call the num­
, bcr and make an inquiry. If you find one of the 
^>ur "lost men," get his correct address (with zone no.) and send it to us immediately. If death has taken them, wc want to know that too for our records. Please give us a lift with our search. The following are UNCLAIMED: 
AL ANDREONI (reported dead at 20th Reunion —someone please verify); REY BONAR, BILL C/\SAZZ/\ (reported seriously ill at 20lh Reunion), SAM CLE.MENTS, JOHN DONOVAN, RALPH ELLWANGER, HAROLD GOODEN, LOUIS GROSSO (we know he is living in New York City), AARON HAMM, JOHN HELLENTHAL, GEORGE HILL, ED LONEGAN, AL LORITSCH, 
vjIOHN MacISAAC, JIM .MAROHN, JOE MUL­
»LALLY, JOHN MURPHY, JOE NORTON, JOHN O'CONNOR, RALPH O'.MALLEY, ART O'NEIL, JOE PERRY, ED POWER, JOHN RAINEY, JESUS ROCES, MERLE SETTLES, BILL (GLENN) S.MITH, SID STEINBERG, BILL STEIS, MAURIE TOMBRAGEL, FRANK WEIN­.M,\N, MAT WINKEL, HARRY WUNDERLY, ED WYKOFF, and BOB JASSAY. This totals 36. Five more BOB BARRY, BILL CURRAN, SA.M GIOE, ART KRANZFELDER and TO.\! 
MASTERSON—were originally listed but have been 
found since we received the report. 
All of which brings us to a tale of interest. Several nights ago BOB BARRY called us on the phone to inquire about CAAIILLE GRAVEL. It seems that Bob had jtist been contacted fay the State Police at the request of Camille. Word was given that Bob was to communicate w*ith the Southern Democratic National Committeeman im­mediately, either at his Washington, D. C. Office or in the home town of Alexandria, La. Bob wondered if we could shed some light on why he was being paged, and especially so "officially." 
At the moment we could not, but asked our Sparrows Point colleague to give us a ring when he found out what CaniiHe wanted. Today, as we were sorting out our notes the thought struck us that Camille was tising the State Police of the several states in hb territory to ferret out the "lost souls." But then we realized that >faryl3nd is not in the Gravel command—so wc are still puzzled. 
We thought that you might like to have new addresses that wc have picked up—here they arc: 
ED BRACKEN, 236 Puritan St., Birmingham, Mich.; BOB FOX, P.O. Box 222, Barrington, III.; SAL (SAM) GIOE, New Brunswick High School, New Brunswick, N. J.; TOM HILS, 2025 Bullard St., Montgomery, Ala.; TO.M MASTERSON, Chief, AP Bureau, Stockholm, Siveden; ED QUDW, 301 East 21st. St., Cheyenne, Wyo.; JOE UNDER­KOFLER, V.A. Research Hospital, 333 East Huron St., Chicago, III.; JOHN WINTERBOTTOM, 909 West Las Tunas Dr., San Gabriel, Calif.; BILL WOLTER, 41* West 29th Ave., Spokane 41, Wash.; BOB B.ARRY, 510 "D" St. Baltimore 19, .Md. 
As a further piec* of news in which you might all find some interest—here are the men overseas, as we know them. There must be a lot more to add to this list if we had the information. We have already told you about TOM MASTER­SON being Chief of the AP Bureau in Stockholm. Here are the rest: 
TOM GRxVVES, American Embassy, Pretoria, Union of South Africa; REV. WALTER DICK, O.C, Cathnlic Mission, Sare, P.O. Lushoto, Tan­ganyika, East /Urica; FAUSTO GA.MBOA, 2 N. 309 Enire 2/y 23, Vedado, Habana, Cuba; TOM FLYNN, 239 Merchant St., Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii; REV. FERDLVAND BERG.MANN, C.S.C., Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Bengal, PakUtan; VINCE SINGSON, 573 Legarda, Manila, Philippine Islands; BROTHER LOYOLA, C5.C., Notre Dame International School, Via Aurelia 287, Rome, Italy; BOB FORBES, P.O. Box 9191, Santurcc, Puerto Rico. 
And now to a sad note. Since our last trip to press tAv'o deaths have hit the '35 class. ED RADDATZ and JOHN ^UDDOCK both died since the first of the year. While wc do not have any details on Ed, we understand that shortly 
I #KENTUCKY—Pierre Angermeier (left) received the Man of the Year award at the UND Night observance. Others from left to right: Joe Harmon, president; Paid Maloney, first vice-president; Tom Bidleit, second vice-president; and William Palmer, secretary. 
BRO. REINALD DURAN, CS.G, '42 
A member of the Notre Dame Class of 1942, Brother Reinald Duran, C.S.C., was appointed Headmaster of Holy Cross in New Orleans, Lotiisiana, last August. Holy Cross is a resident and day preparatory school with an enrollment of about 850 boys. It was established by the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1879. 
Brother Reinald is a native of Kulp­mont, a coal mining town in the an­thracite region of eastern Pennsylvania. He attended St. Casimir's and the Roosevelt High School there before en­tering the Congregation of Holy Cross at Valatie, New York in 1937. In the same year Brother began his novitiate in the Congregation and in February 1939 he was transferred to Notre Dame where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree. 
After nine years on the Holy Cross faculty, he was appointed Director of Studies and eventually Prefect of Dis­cipline and Assistant Headmaster which posts he held for three years. In August of last year he became the twelfth head of the school since its foundation. 
Brother has done graduate work at Fordham University and at Notre Dame. He received his Master's de­gree from Notre Dame in 1950. 
Professionally, he is a member of the Louisiana Commission of the Southern Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, the National Association of Secondary-School Principals and the Louisiana Principals' Association. 
ffotre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 47 
FORT WAYNE—Alumni club members at Day of Recollection on March II. 
after John*s return from the East (and Reunion) he became ill, spending months in the hospital. An operation disclosed lung cancer and he was sent home. He died on March V and was buried in While Plains, N.Y. on the 13ih. (Ed. Note: Informauon on BUD RADDATZ in last ALUMNUS obituary column.) 
To both families wc express the sincere con­dolences of the Class of *35, with the thought that two more men of '35 arc pleading the cause of the rest of us in Heaven. (Your Scribe*s daugh­ters send their s>*mpathy to your young one, Mrs. Maddock.) 
BILL RYAN experienced tragedy in his home in recent months, too. His younger daughter, Karen, accidentally cut her eye with scissors. Surgery was attempted to save the eye but un­fortunately was to no avail. 
Wc listed MAURIE TOMBRAGEL as missing above. The last address we have is years old though We have known him to be on the West Coast for a long time. Mauric was always quite a man ivith the pen and we heard he was work­ing in Holly^vood. About a month ago wc were watching *'Wyatt Earp** with the family. Lo and behold who was do%«'n as the author but our missing '35er, TOMBRAGEL. The next few weeks we caught the credits but did not sec his name again. The script is handled by several writers apparently. So, here is a lead for you California men—trace Maurie for us. 
And nmv to such mail as the deadline will allow. Our colleague, JIM DOYLE, *3l Secretary, sent along a news clipping for us early this year which announced that JOHN MORLEY, was named by die Pabst Brewing Co. as manager of its new central sales region in Chicago. Previously John had been assistant eastern regional sales manager. Congratulatlous John—and thanks, Jim. (Good luck in Jimel) 
Word comes through that TED SANTINIELLO, 33A Davis Road, Port Washington, N.Y. is with BILL RYAN'S Associates Investment Co. Ted was with us for the four years but did not take his degree. He is making plaiu for *60. 
DAN YOUNGERMAN sent along a selection of notes which came from the men as ^ey made their dues payments. Here they are: 
From **BUS" BREEN—'•Your tearful plea could not be denied—Good luck! 
From TOM LaLONDE—"^Vhy not save 3 or 4 annual letters and offer bargain prices of 5 years 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
for $8? Enclosed arc t^vo. Seriously want to wish all of yooi best regards and luck!" 
From BILL PFEIL—"Enclosed is a check of $10 
for my 5 years of dues. ^Vhat a ball of fire that 
PAUL A. FERGUS seems to be. The following 
should make him happy. I would like to be the 
first to put in a reservation for the 25th Reunion 
in June 1960." (Bill wasn't first but he was near 
the lop.) 
From JIM SHEILS—"Thanks very much for your letter of January 21 which was very interesting and ivcll prepared. So persuasive were you that I am enclosing my check in tlic amount of $2.00." 
From WALT MATUS—"JIM HAMILTON sure 
put you on the spot and I go along with him. You 
did a good job for the 20th Reunion and if you 
keep sending out flyers to the guys from here on 
in, they'll get so worked up that they'll commit 
mayhem to get out to N.D. in I960." 
From ANDY MAFFEI—"I have just dispatched a letter to JIM HAMILTON regarding your and his activities in behalf of the class. You felloiv'S certainly let no water run under your feet. . . . I hope I can commence the interest by bringing in the 'dough.* In order to start it off please find my small donation to help pay for the stamps. .. . We certainly had a great time at last Reunion and I am looking forv%-ard to the 25th without a cane." 
From JACK DUFFEY—"Some sales talk, Paul. I could hardly wait to get out my check book. You should have known better though than get caught in the sams room alone with HAMILTON and YOUNGERMAN. A couple of good organizers like them and you will be doing more than writing sales letters. If the secret of a good Reunion is an early start you fellows certainly deserve a lot of credit. 'With the wonderful job you all did last year there is something to shoot at." 
From WALT TYLUTKI—"Your desperate plea 

caught me in a good mood. 1*11 start the ball 
rolling with my first year's dues." 
From BILL RYAN—"^VeU done, Paul. Here's my two bucks—^you sure must have been 'lit' when you penned that letter. I'm contacting the boys in the field for you in NYC, Dallas and New Orleans." 
And that's just a sample. Every one of the notes sbows a great and hot spark of enthusiasm. That's what wc want from all the *35 gang. If we get it, the 25th will be like none they have ever seen under the Golden Dome. 
A letter has gone out to the clergy in the class telling them of our plans but asking for no dues ^ It was felt that mojt of our men are members ot~ religious orders with vows of poverty. We do not want them to feci "let out" in planning for our Silver Anniversary and the officers decided that dispensing them from the dues campaign was only fair. JIM CORRIGAN, one of our Jesuit '35crs, responded to hb letter as follows: 
"I heartily approve your early start in preparing for the 23th Reunion of our Class in June 1960. My disappointment at not being able to attend the 20th Reunion last June spurs me on to make arrangements to attend the 25th. I heard nothing but good reports of the June gathering and aip ^ very anxious to attend the Silver Anniversary, -i^ ' 
"I am grateful to you for the special invitation given to the clergy. Please accept my best wishes for success in your work of making arrangements for our Reunion. 
"You may count me as definitely determined to be present." Jim, incidentally, is President of Campion Jesuit High School in Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin. 
Way back in the beginning of this column wc I talked about receiving a letter from a "lost soul." ! Well, here it is—JOHN RYAN wTotc from his hotel room in Pittsburgh: 2^ 
"Sitting here in the hctcl reading the ,A.LUMNUS;~ issue of November-December 1955, I can't help but mar\'el at the fact that you have so faithfully and graciously performed as class secretary for the past 20 years! < 
"As one who ha> contributed nothing in the way of nct*^ about myself or any other class mate since leaving N.D., need I confess I'm ashamed of myself when I realize the work you have done all these years to keep '35ers informed about each • other. And I'm one of those '35ers, strange as it may seem to you, who turns to your colum^i^­immediately upon picking up a copy of the" ALUMNUS. 
"My personal thanks and congratulations to you for a most interesting and complete job of class reporting, Uiat in my opinion, surpasses by a mile anything done by class scribes before or since your appointment to the job. . . . 
"Had plans gone right last summer, I too would have been one of the unexpected '3i5crs to show up at the Reunion. Of all weekends, that one was selected by my boss to meet him in ^finneapolis on the opening of a distributor of our products— 
but it was an important deal and one that he and ^ had been working on for some weeks. 
"On a previous trip to the twin cities I talked with BILL LORD about making the Reunion. Bill travels a lot and didn't know then if he could make it. See he wasn't listed as present. Bill and Peg (from Erie, Pa.) have 2 children. He is with American Hospital Supply Co. out of Evanston, and has Minnesota and Wisconsin ter­riton*. • . • 
"Conccrnins the JOHN JOSEPH RYAK family, here's a quick run-down: Afarricd ifargaret Rita -^fullens, my Framinsham, Mass. high school swcet-
Vieart in 1939 at the Leg Chapel. Wc have 3 cliildren—Jean, Gcraldine and Tim—each born in a different place as %zixts work takes me around the country. The kids love to move—gypsies ycni know—but ^fama and old man Ryan are about ready to anclior, preferably in the East, ^^a^ga^ct Rita just misses NYC—lived there 6 years and graduated from ComcH Medical Center ^v•ith a 
B.S. in nursing. "Since the last war I have been with Globe Roofing Products Co., Chicago, as salesman and jiow. Special Representative, opening new terri­torie s in 'Wisconsin, Minnesota, Michigan, Ohio, PennsyK'ania and West Virginia. . . .** 
There was a good deal more personal informa­tion in John's letter which we do not think he would want published. Hope he does not mind our going as far as we did. Thanks a million for the long epistle, John. Let's have another before 20 more years go by, and stop in sec us, eh? 
John lives at 226 Boyd Street, Oshkosh, Wis­consin. GEORGE COLE has moved to Junction City, Kans., to manage a department store. He formerly ^ivcd in Salina, Kans. 
" And finally a few notes from BILL RYAN (that's right, John's "curley-headrd" brother) as he has been barnstorming the countr>- for /Associates. 
"On n trip a few weeks ago through Louisiana and Texas, I dropped in on JOE BE/\CH who, with his brother, owns and runs a ver>* flourishing looking furniture store on Airline Highway in New Orleans, . . . Joe is looking forward to the 25th Reunion and assured me that he is planning on it. 
"Joe promised that he would prod some of the other boys, including VIC KURZWEG (who I don't believe attended the pre\'ioiis two reunions). I suppose when CA^HLLE GRAVEL reads that I was in New Orleans he will be disappointed that I didn't keep my promise and try to see him— However, Camille, for your information, I had to cover five cities in five day's so I just couldn't make it. 
"I was in Houston, Dallas and Fort Worth on the same trip and tried to get TOM STANDISH at his home from the airport . . . with no luck. In Dallas I called JOE L\'NCH and MITCH S.VLEH. . , . Joe is with the International Print­ing Ink Co., is doing very well, and apparently is putting his roots down in Dallas for a long time to come. 
"Mitch has two cltildrcn. a girl 3, and a boy 7 months old. He is with Chance Vought In engi­neering." (Mitch gave Bill a run-down on his history- which we have passed along before—but no reason for not showing up last June.) "By the way, Mitch told me he thinks TO.M ST/\NDISH is expecting number eight. . . . Tom you better verify this one way or anotiicr to Hoch, and while you arc at it, give him a stor>- on everybody in Houston. . . . 
"I also spent a few days in New York City recently and despite several phone calls to NEIL CROWLEY, VIC CARTON, ANDY XLVFFEI and BILL KENNEDY, the only one I connected with was Bill. .. . He told me he believes Neil is manager of a Safeway Supermarket in Rockville Center. I hope Neil reads this and if so, would like him to know that we are really going to work on him to get to the 25lh Reunion. We missed him at all the others. 
"Made a quick trip to IIcmp<;tead. Long Island office to see and talk with TED S.VNTINIELLO who joined our company a few vears ago. . . . Sandy called JOE BITTNER for mc and I talked to him for a moment. He Is an attorney out there and plans on the 25th." 
So much for BILL RY^VN'S report to the nation. We are grateful for your help in making our job easier. Bill, 
Looking through the .ALUMNUS which came yesterday we note that AL LA\VTON is due a "tip of the hat" for his new position as executive vice-president of the recently formed Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Company of New-Haven. Nice goins* Al—and lots of good luck! 

ART CONRAD has been appointed as Director of the Traffic Educational Safety Di%-ision Program for the Municipal Court of Chicago. 
CH^VRLES M. RYAN has been appointed Di­rector of the Regional Office of the National Labor Relations Board at Cincinnati. 
THOM/VS J. HILS, formerly of Schenectady, N.Y., has been named copy desk editor of the Montgomery (.Mabama) Advertiser. He was more recently managing editor of the Tampa Advocater, Tampa, Florida. 
San Diego, Calif., newcomers include the family of JOHN C. FL.\NlGx\N who moved from Ari­zona to 4980 Marlborough Ave., in the port city. 
As we put this column to bed we think a word is due about "Bishop Gregory." Because of the needling which ^ve have received, along with a good deal of interest, from the Alumni Ofiice about our spare time dramatic efforts, we sent them a personal copy of the theatre board picture from **The Velvet Glove." The covering note said *'Thought you guys might enjoy seeing this as a gag—please return immediately as it u for my personal collection." Two months went by and the picture did not return so we sent along a note requesting it. Immediately it showed up with a reply from your Editor which read: 
*'I'm awfully sorry we haven't returned your picture sooner .. . it sort of slipped a^^^ay from me. .. . I wish there had been an opportunity to use it in the magazine but you know how things get cluttered on an editor's desk—or do you?" Now you and we know ^vhy it was delayed. On a return from a trip to Washington yesterday we were greeted at the door by our three girls with a "Hello Bishop"! They had the ALUMNUS in their hands and we knew that CLVCKLEY man had done it! 
That's it for this trip to press. Let's keep the typesetter busy men. Send in those dues checks and shoot out the news! 
^AN ANTONIO—Joseph I. O'Neill, national president of Notre Danie Alumni Association, was guest speaker at the club's Universal Notre Dame Night. Left to right: O'Neill; Mike Conley, who was named Man of the Year; Father Armand Mat­thew; Chairman John Vaughan; and Club Prcxy Jesse Poston. 
Notre Dcme Alumnus^ June-July, 1956 49 
WILLIAM B. LA\\'LESS, JR., '44 

William B. Lawless, Jr., '44, is Buf­falo's youngest Corporation Counsel. While at Notre Dame, he participated in varsity football, was captain of tlie debate team and president of the AVranglers. Bill served with the Armed Forces during World War II after receiving a bachelor of laws de­gree from Notre Dame in 1944. He was commissioned an ensign in the 
U. S. Naval Reserve and assigned to the Pacific Fleet. He also holds a bachelor of arts degree from the Uni­versity of Buffalo and was awarded a master's degree from Harvard Law School in 1950. 
In November, 1955, Bill was elected president of the Common Comicil of the City of Buffalo, youngest in the history of the city. He was named Man of the Year for community serv­ice last year by -the Buffalo Junior Chamber of Commerce and he has served as professor of law at the Uni­versity of Buffalo on a part-time basis for three years. Governor Harriman appointed him to his Committee on Revising State Competitive Bidding Laws. Bill is a member of the board of directors of the Buffalo Public Li­brar)', the Philharmonic Orchestra and Kleinhans Music Hall. 
He is president of the New York Association of Corporation Counsels. 
Bill is married to the former Jeanne Offeimann and they are die parents of six children, Sharon, Barbara, Wil­ham, Cathy, Gregory and Richard. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
JACKSON—^The alumni club honored Charles G. Donahue and W. Keith Mclnally as 'Men of the Year.' Bbir McGowan (left), retiring president, made the presentation at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner held in Jackson, Mich. Tom King, ND alumnus and now dean of men at Michigan State University, was guest speaker. 
I O3A ^ H. Moorman **" 2628 Buhl BuUding, Detroit 26, Michigan 
GLENN A. BLAKE k mth the Bcldcn and 
Blakc Oil Products Company, room 626, Rcnkert 
Building, 306 N. Market Street, Canton, Ohio. 
1 037 ^^"1 Foley, Vice-President McCann-Erickson, Inc. 3546 Penobscot BIdg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
PAUL SHEEDY has been named sales manager for the Wildroot Company. For many years he handled the ad%*crtising account for this firm while he was employed by Battcn-Barton-Durstine and Osborne. 
JOHN SHAW was l?y chairman for the Tulsa Deanery at a recent Diocesan meeting for clerical and lay workers. 
1 938 (^^^l<=^ ^^- Callahan Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Indiana 
CLARK REYNOLDS has been appointed assist­ant to the president of the Union Bag and Paper Corporation, New York, N.Y. In his new position Clark ^vill coordinate sales and manufacturing in helds relating to production. 
JOHN and MRS. SCmVARTZEL have an­nounced the birth of their fourth daughter, Mary­ann, on March 7, 1956. John is with the Ameri­can Distilling Company in New Albany, Indiana. 
1 92 9  William O'Toolc  .»  
"•* '  176 Hillside Avenue  
Rochester, New York  
1 94 0  James G. Brown  
'  '^ ^  52 Vanderbilt Ave.  
New York, New York  

(Ed. Note: Because of an unusually hca\-y sched­ule Dick Burke has asked to be relieved of his dutits as class secretary. Beginning with this issue Jim Brown has volunteered to take over the Job and keep you informed of class actiWties. The editois%) owe a vote of appreciation to Dick for his efforts during the past she years. Please send your class notes to Jim Brown. JC). 
\VILLIAM "BUD" KERR, who has been assist­ant football coach at the University of Washington in Seattle, has been named head coach at the University of Dayton. Bud and his wife have three daughters. 
JAMES FOLEY has recently been named busi­ness manager at St. John's Hospital, Salina, Kansas. He formerly was assistant district manager for -^ the International Harvester Company in Salina and^ ' more recendy had worked for International in Sweetwater, Texas. Jim is married and he and his wife have four children, Joan, 13, Joseph, 11, Lee, 8, and Jim, 4. 
Navy orders have shifted Cmdr. JOHN A. Mc-INTYRE to San Diego where he and his wife, Annette, reside at 3108 Cowley Way. 
10^1 (Class Secretary to be selected — soon)! 
JOE GUILITINAN'S nei%- address is 15 Glen-.. 
^)Ide, Tcrrytown, N.Y. He states that at the 
^ffescnt time he is -A-orking at the Chevrolet Motor Division as Parts and Accessories Merchandising Manager. His territor/ includes Connecticut, Ne^v York and New Jersey. 
1942 William £. Scanlan ^ 400 East Ulth Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
t
From Lr\RRY KELLEY, Houston. Texas: Youi" Very welcome letter was received and I 1 grateful to you for %v*riting. I have al\vays read %vith interest your class reports In the ALUM­NUS magazine and I hope that you will continue to find the time and the energy to keep up this good xvork. I know that all of us appreciate this sacrifice of your time. 
As for the Texas area, we have little to report. DON O'BRIEN is doing a fine job with the McCann-Erickson Advertising Agency and is also president of the Notre Dame Club. One of his jobs is to assist in the broadcasting of games 
laycd by members of the Southwest Conference, 

• t he docs a considerable amount of rambling around during the football season. 
BOB ALLEN is with Carbide and Chemical (Union subsidiary] at Texas City. He looks well and prosperous. 
You asked about PAUL LILLIS. Paul is married and has a daughter and is living in Shaker Heights, (Cleveland) Ohio. I haven't seen Paul since the last Oklahoma game at South Bend. He has contained himself exceptionally well and has changed Httle since grad'jation. I can say the same for BOB H.\RGRi\VE and BERNIE CRIM­
j^IINS. Both have visited Houston recently and Wtey too are in perfect shape. I guess that I am the only one that looks like a bloated frog. 
I saw JIM O'NEAL in New York recently and he is having the usual trials and tribulations of anyone moring to the big city. As you know, Jim enjoyed St. Louis so it isn*t the easiest thing in the world to pack up the makings of a small girl's school and move. 
For the past three years BILL HICKEY, DON HOGAN, JERRY HACK, JIM CONWAY, E.M­.METT WRIGHT, DON O'BRIEN and I, along with cur wives, have managed to get together e\-cry year for a football game and the meetings 
C^ve always developed Into memorable affairs. The ""frcxt occasion \rill be a Chicago migration to Dallas for the SMU game, then reciprocated with the southern delegation going to the Oklahoma game. 
BOB McFARLAND h still a bachelor in Okla­homa City. He is very active in Notre Dame affairs in this area and, as expected, is doing a good job business-wise. Bob was through here not long ago and has a standing invitation to return but as yet he hasn't accepted. 
—U. S. Marine Corps Photo 

SAN DIEGO—Lt. Gen. Francis P. (Pat) Mulcahy, USMC, ret., '14, in civies, troops the line as honored guest and reviewing officer at a regimental parade at the San Diego Marine Corps Recruit Depot on Feb. 24. With Gen. Mulcahy as the chariot jeep passes the depot staff is Maj.-Gen. J. C. McQueen, depot conunanding general. Gen. and Mrs. Mulcahy, whose son, Tom, is a jimior at Notre Dame, were honored at a reception on the base following the review. 
Scoop, that's about it. All of us here certainly wish that more of the old group would stop jn Houston for a fresh horse. X think the Chicago group mentioned above are saring their con­federate money because they know the south will rL<!e again. 
As for me personally. Scoop, I married an Irish girl by the name of Keenan. We have t%vo boys and a lovely little girl. We left Los Angeles about ten years ago and are very happy here in Texas. I am doing consulting work as applied to oil exploration and enjo)*ing it very much. 
1 Q4 3 J°^° ^ Wiggins ' '^ ^ 4800 Fairla^vn Drive LaCanada, California 
Slim pickings on class dope this trip. We have, however, a couple of Detroit items; 
JIM BYRNE has been elected president of the Detroit /Vlumni Club; his term began Easter Sun­day. Jim, as president of the Byrne Plywood Company, 909 South Main Street, Royal Oak, Michigan, has been selected for the Young Presi­
'bOUTHERN COLORADO—Paul Homung, ND quarterback, was guest speaker at a recent club function during his visit to Pueblo where he spoke at the Catholic High School All-Sports banquet. Left to right; Albert J. Thomas, club president; Homimg; and Msgr. Elwood Voss, Superintendent of Catholic High School. 
dents* Organization. General national qualifica­tions to join this select group are that a company president, under 40 years of age, head a concern which sold over one million dollars per year. Among other Notre Darners Jim joins in the YPO is FATHER HESBURGH. Congratnlations, Jim! 
ED HICKEY, another Detroiter, was elected a director of the Detroit Club. Ed has recently opened a branch store in Grosse Pointe to go along with his fashionable do^vntoun men's clothing store. 
1 044 Gt^orge Bariscillo 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
We ran into a publication snag this time, and as a result little information has come to yoor secretary since my last deadline. I have a deadline to meet and the last issue of the magazine, late in getting o£r the Ave Maria Press, hasn't reached most of you yet as I write this column. Gen­erally, tvhen the magazine arrives there is an incentive to write to your class secretary with the result that I usually get a batch of correspondence shortly thereafter. But that hasn't happened this time as a result of the delay beyond our control. For the record my next deadline will be June 1st, and trusting this column reaches you in time to scribble a few lines to me to meet that deadline, I would beg of you to do so. And if not, please write anyway and the information you send me wilt be used in my very next column thereafter. 
'With your permission this time, and thanks to the magnificent job BILL TALBOT did in survey­ing the class on the Dome project, I mil resort to the questionnaim returned to Bill, and at ran­dom, extract some facts of interest. And thus I note. . . . 
ANDY McELROY U an accountant wt h the insurance firm of Johnson & Higgins on Wall Street in N«v York. . . . WARREN LEARY is publisher of the Cfaronotypc Publishing Co., Rice I.ake, 'Wisconsin. . . . HANK ADAM is assistant division superintendent with £. I. DuPont at their plant in Belle, ^Vcst Virginia. . . . GUIDO ALEX­ANDER is co-owner of the Desert Inn restaurant in Columbus, Ohio (3540 E. Broad Street, if you're passing through Columbus and hungry). .. . TOSi BREMER is a partner in the firm of Frost & Bremer practicing law in Cleveland, Ohio (608 National City Bank Building, if you're passing through Cleveland and get a ticket). . . . JOHN O'NEILL is a physician specializing in internal medicine in New Haven, Conn. (57 Trumbull SL , if you're passing through New Haven and get a stomach ache) . . . 
I note also that TOM O'REILLY is a co-owner of the 0*Reilly Office Supply Co. in Fort ^Vayne, Indiana. . . . CHARLIE PICKHARDT 5s liwng in ^^^Iliams\-iIle, N.Y. and is a project supervisor ^vith the National Gypsum Co. in Buffalo. .. . JI>f FLATT, ^vith his wife Jacqueline and 4 little ones, lives in Chicago where he is Ant. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 2956 52 
William J. Carson, '41, is with the govern­ment's Point 4 Program in Cuidad Trujillo, Dominican Republic Bill and Mrs. Carson and their children, Paul, Corinne and Chad arc in front of the Santo Domingo Cathedral-
States Atty. for Cook Count\% and a good man to know. . . . LOU SCHMITZ, wth his wfe Margaret and 4 little ones (oldest of which is 4), lives in Butte, Montana where he is manager of the Coca Cola Bottling Co. . . . DICK SULLI­VAN, with his wife Joyce and 4 little ones (all girls), is a surgeon in Binghamton, New York. . . . 
And I objer\-e that BILL HEALY, who was with the U. S. Treasury* Dcpt., is now Office Manager of Maiuice Healy S: Sons In Boston in accounting. . . . GEORGE HEGNER has been with the Ford Motor Co, since 1947 and is now zone sales manager for the iferrury Div. in Pittsburgh. . . . BERNIE GHIGLIERI is practicing law in Peoria as a partnir in the firm of O'Connor Sc Ghiglieri. 
. . FRANK McMANUS is a market analyst with the product planning division of IBM in their New York office. . . . DICK LEON is a buyer for F. W. ^Voolworth Co. dc Mexico in Mexico City. . . . 
Among othei legal lights in the class, I note that HARRY LAVERY is practicing in Chicago, that MIKE M.ALLOY is attomcy-of-rccord for the Associated Aviation TJndenmters in New York City, and that BOB RHODE is a partner in the law firm of Fcderer, Grote, Hcsslink S: Rhode in Sheboygan, ^Visconsin. . . . 
Hop-skipping in every direction across this land of ours I see in Kansas City, Missouri, BOB SCHKAAIM is director of development for the Spencer Chemical Co. .. . in Palo Alto, California TOM SHELLWORTH is a salesman with the Peninsula Chevrolet Co. .. . in Milwaukee, 'Wis­consin LES SENTZ is point-of-sale supervisor for the ifillcr Brewing Co. and the father of four children .. . in Rochester, New York JOHN KLEE is Pres. & Treas. of the Automatic Rug Cleaning Co. . . . and in Chicago ED DUNIGAN, the father of 5 futuic Notre Damers. including a set of twins, is a salesman with tlie general printing ink division of the Sun Chemical Corp.. . . 
Yes, our gang have really spread their wings and flown in many different directions and into ^•aried fields of acti\ity; yet, we all enjoy that one common bond that unites us in spirit and at least once ever>' five years affords us an oppor­tunity of reuniting in-person and walking again upon hallowed ground. June of *59 will see our 15th Reunion. And may we suggest that it*s not too early to begin thinking about it and planning for iL In the interim, I would ask you again to help mc spread the word by feeding me a few lines about yourself and other *44 men you may see or 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 7956 

knoAV about. The news this time was excerpted from Talbot's surs'cy, and selected at random with no preferences intended. Future columns will contain additional iiems again gleaned from the questionnaires, and to supplement those I'd appreciate a few* letters from some of you. 
1 QAK Al Lesmez 
• ' ** 122 Tullamorc Road Garden City, N. Y. 

A GATHERING OF FRIENDS 
Class Praidcnt JIM CLVNES has sent out word that the Oklahoma game this year is scheduled to be the "unofficial" reunion of anyone in the class of *45 who can make it on Saturday, October 27, in time for lunch. Tickets for the game will be the headache of each one coming. Plans are to have a table for the men of the class and their families at the Monogram Luncheon in the Drill Hall. Of course it is going to be necessar>' to know that you are coming, so please let Jim Cl>*nes know as soon as possible. That address is: JIM CLYNES, JR., c/o Allen H. Treman, Savings Bank Building, Ithaca, New York. I'll see y'all there! ! Get your ticket for the game. 
PUDDLE WADDLERS 

BILL MOORE, class Treasurer, has sent out an appeal for class funds, and indications arc that quite a few are heeding his advice and sending in some dues. Bill's completely correct when he states that the class must have money with which to operate. Without funds we can just waddle around in a puddle without oars—but if '>'ou provide the oars via some needed cash, we all (and that's all your officers) shall see to it that wc are not left behind, but that our class will continue to grow, to organize, to become mighty powerful, ifake your check pav'able to the "Notre Dame Class of '45" and mail it to WILLIAM W. MOORE, Class Treasurer, 720 Irving Place, Plain­field, New Jersey. 
LOST AND FOUND DEPARTMENT 
Mail has been returned because of lack of for­warding address for the following men of the class. It is always a shame to have to drop members because of not being able to locate them—espe­cially when there must be some other members who knotv their w-hcrcabouts. Therefore, if you recognize any of the following names and know their address, write me right away: ^VILLIAM F. RABBETT, RICH/\RD R. YOUNG, JOHN J. CON'NELLY, DR. F. GILBERT McMAHON, ^V^LLIAM M. PERRY, JOHN R. SULLIVAN, DESMOND P. CURRIER, and one of our o^vn class VP's, PHILIP P. MARTIN. 
CONGRATULATIONS DEPARTMENT Heartiest congratulations to my former roon#^ mate, FREDERICK G. BREMER ("Godfrey"/ who has just announced the formation of a part­nership for the general practice of law known as Spann and Bremer, 11033 Vicrs Mill Road, \Vhca­
ton, Maryland. Best of luck to the new firm! Good luck and a happy "welcome home" to PAT and J. D. USINA who have arrived in Old Mon­terey, and plan staying there (via Navy orders] until November of tliis year. His address is 115 
Brownell  Circle,  La  Mesa  Village, Monterey,  
California.  A. ^  
LETTERS  FROM  DEPARTMENT  

From JIM PARIS: "I visited the campus in *54 for my younger brother's first Solemn High Mass. It vvas said in Sacred Heart Church (my parents' home parish) and the sermon was preached by REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, former N. D. Presi­dent. He was, to cver^'onc's recollection, the first priest from that parish. 
"That's one reason I missed the 10-year reunion, Al. I couldn't justify the expense of a trip back to the campus two years in a row. Air trav^^\ from California isn't as inexpensive as the travel ads would have you believe, and that's the only way to travel, except for local auto trips.** 
From PAUL SMITH: "You are right, dead right—good friends should alwa>*s continue to be good friends; and because of this, even though I have only had your letter in my possession less than twenty-four hours, I have decided that I should give you some dope about the Smith house­hold that should bring you up to date. 
"First off, explaining the stationery—^I was elected President of the local alumni club (Atlanta^% and as such I decided that the Notre Dan ^ / Club should have some nice paper on which to tvrite—so I had this made up. 
"Elisc and I have four cliildrcn: Paul, Terr>-, Nancy, and Pat. Pat came along last August. Wc still live in the same house—526 Mcado\v Lane, Decatur, even though we have outgrown it. Wc hope to be able to afford a larger place next year. I still have the company going, and last year we were fortunate in increasing our business. We have a place in Gadsen, Alabama, and Rome, Georgia, as well as the location here in Atlanta. Have thirteen men employed now, including, myself.*' f ; 
And that's all the news from your secretary for nov**. S'lojg, Al. 
1946 Jack Tcnge, Jr. 
31 Everett Avenue, 
West Hartford, Conn. 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Ed 'Moose' Krause was guest speaker at a luncheon meeting held by the alumni club. 
1 0d7 James E. Muiphy 
JOHN S. GLEASON, JR., '36 
John S. Gleason, Jr., '36, who is vice president of tlie First National Bank of Chicago, has been recommended by President Dwight Eisenhower for pro­motion to Brigadier General, 85th In­
•^antry Division. The recommendation is now before the United States Senate. After graduating from Notre Dame with a bachelor of science degree, John took a specialized banking course at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration. In 1941, his business careeer at the First Nationa l Bank of Cliicago was inter­rupted when he volunteered for mili­tary service. Entering the Army as a private, he was discharged as a lieuten­ant colonel five years later after com­bat service in New Guinea, the Mar­shall Islands, Guadalcanal and the ^Philippines. John received the Philip­pine Presidential Citation, the Silver Star, the Soldiers Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star with two oak leaf clusters. 
Bishop Bernard Shell, organizer of the Catholic Youth Organization, pre­
sente d John Gleason with a Club of Champions award in 1950. He was chosen one of the ten outstanding young men of the nation in 1949. 
John and his wife, Mary Jane, live 

at 735 Sheridan, Winnetka, 111., and still with Schok Homes, Inc. as a cost accountant With the purchase of a home I have begun to 
have five sons, Jack, Dan, Dick, Tom 
settle dow-n GENE PHILLIPS waa my best man 

I Tt # J706 Caiurchill Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 
ED NUGENT, JR. was named "young man oi the vca^- by the Junior Chamber, of Commerce \n L^tSmd ? Colorado. Ed was cited for "c.v,c contribution and business leadership and, also, for his service to state, county and city. 
DR. WLLH.M J. DUNN is now associated with Carle Hospital Clinic, Urbana, Illinois. Bill will be working in the Department of Diagnosis and Internal Medicine. . . . „ 
Consratulations arc in order for JOHN GL,V-« and wife Lorraine on the birth .»' % »"• .^L" Paul, on ^^arch 13 in Mercy Hospital, San Diego, Calif The augmented Glaab family gets its mail at 518 Colorado St., Chula Vista. 
lOAfi Herman A. Zitt ''^* ' 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
ROBERT D. MORELL has moved to San Diego ,o take o« r the managerial post of one of the 
W. T. Grant Department Stores there. 
1OA9 John Walker 
• '^ ' 826 Wing Street Elgin, Illinois 
a\IT . GEORGE R. SCHRODT is stationed at the Atlantic Gener.1 Depot »h«= •'^.j^ , f j f \t m Medical Officer. George .-eceivrf his MJJ. from the University of Louisville in Vi3i. 
riOER T E. LENNING has recently received a mifer J science degree from Ohio State Uni­
"LOUIS N. NICOULIN now has a law ofEce at 'Oe Realty Building, Louisville, Ky. 
FnWARD F HOUSTON is a member of the ,e S s°aff of the Hughes Aircraft Company in Culver City, Califorma. 
HTV M ^ULACHy MCCARTY was recently y • J Vr. X Holv Priesthood in Dubuque. jS^rlfcCartfis a"mLber of Uie Trappist Order. 
lOCn Richard F. Hahn ' '' " 6930 North Odell Chicago 31, Illinois 
Well I finally recovered from the lost ««''«>* of li t June that I think I can manage anoUier letted to the crew. I hope those of you who had dinned me a line did not think that I threw them flTaway -nib news ^«ll cover the previous year so don^t think it aU happened yesterday. 
FRANK McBRTOE, JR. writes "Just a few ran-
S S , V ^Sif^n^errjanug^^ 
business with his Dad in Dayton' (Ed Not^. Frank U also the new president of Da>ton N.U. Club.) . , 
DON HELLINGHAUSEN: ".Marge and I no>» ha" two babies, Mary born in 7'^^-^.='J'^ 
LTTow;"here'°Lt''am »till . » mi.« f^ a the nearest ND or St. Mary's '»""• ^^ , ^ ' ^ j PHIL RECORD pretiy often and Muriel ana DICK CULLEN once in a great while. »ne Records are in Fort Worth and the Cullens m Victoria. JIM O'CONNOR (of Milwaukee) wrote me that he was married in January but J;»« "« heard from him since, so I guess he « stdl honey­mooning." 
EUGENE J. PHILLIPS was married last Octo­ber 13, to Mary Catharine Guyton of Toledo. 
LEO J. HIEGEL became a partner in the fim of Weaver, Stowers & Hiegel, Architects m LitUe t?n«.k Arkansas last June 3. 
He^elr a n^te from BOB BRADNER from be­fore the reunion. " ' will not be able to make the reunion, partly because my vrffe J»=° '•=«X r delivered our first child, Kathleen Mary. After more than four years in pubhc accounting I am 
THOMAS S. KENNEY, '50 

Thomas S. Kenney, a 1950 graduate of Notre Dame, is an instrumentation installation engineer at the RCA Serv­ice Company's Missile Test Project, and is responsible for the installation of the electronic equipment used in conjunction with missile testing on the 5000 mile range e.'ctending from Cape Canaveral, Florida to Ascension Island, near the coast of Africa. "The work he is doing in missile testing -will later be 
used in the Satellite Program. 
Since 1953, the Radio Corporation of America has been the contractor re­sponsible for the design, operation and maintenance of electronic and opucal instrumentation for data acquisition, transmission and reduction of the Air Force Florida Guided Missile Test Range. 
Tom served wth the Air Force at Keesler Air Force Base following grad­uation from N.D. He went to Japan in 1952 where he remained mitil dk­charged. Following his tour of duty in the Service, Tom joined RCA. 
Another note fro=i the archives, "E"'? , « * vear I had hoped lo make the reumon withVAL. REISIG who is working in N. Y. for Carbon S. Carbide. However, at the end of February, I en­tered the hospital for an operauon on my shoulder to correct a chronic dislocation. My recovery iras rather slow and since I stUl can't use the ^ ver>- much, I thought I would forego the trip­
thb time. I'll try to make the Ten Year Remuon," uTites JIM FISHER. J.!". "=«"«'.''• "f'J" " missed a ball at the reunion but we wU be lookmg forward to seeing you in four more ycMs. 
TOM RONEY ivrites, "I was mamed on May "1 1935 at SS. Peter & Paul's Jesuit Church in b;,roit to Miss Katherine ?,^^° " "' S^J-Pointe Farms, Michigan. CHUCK McCAULY" 
when I took the plunge last year." 
.and Dave. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July. 1956 53­
« 
came up from Corpus Christi to be an usher. 
He served with my two brothers Ed (*42) and 
Da\-id ('43). Those who attended included: JIM 
GROSS, DICK FITZGIBBONS, GENE CLEARY, 
(^51), and BOB ^\^XK. Kay and I honeymooned out 
west thru California over a three week stay. Our 
present address Is 21040 Moross, Detroit 36, Mich. 
For those who wanf to know and *'the Editor** 
I have a change of address for FRED J. BONE. 
His new address is 14915 Biola Ave., La Mirada, 
Calif. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD L. \VEIGAND (Bemic 
and Jackie) had a 7-lb. 3-oz. girl named Michele 
Marie last October the 24ih, This brings the 
family to two what ^vith Mike being 14 months 
at the time. 
BOB and Lottie NALETTE are the proud parents of a son bom on September 10, their first. Bob is a coach at Catholic High In Cheboygan, Michi­gan. BILL CONNORS and LEO MURPHY are in the north country ooth coaching at Catholic Cen­tral in Alpena, Michigan. 
I have a lew questions as to the outcome of the class elections held last Reunion. .. . Did anyone vote and who counted the ballots, I am sure he is sober now. .. . 
DICK HAHN, your reporter, when he remem­bers, has a big fancy tide to go with his su'ell head . . . Superintendent of laboratory opera­tions. Needless to say I like Inland Testing quite a bit and plan to be around awhile. If any of you happen to be in Chicago and want to see a testing Lab gi\'e me a call and I shall be happy to oblige. 
Last Navy game I saw PAUL BUCHYNSKY and his wife on campus. For those interested we ha%'e found that the Student Union is a convenient place to meet following a game. I plan to make the Michigan State game in the fall. 
BOB MURPHY and his wife, &veeu*c, had a boy named Mark William during the past few months. This brings Bob*i family to t^vo. 

RONALD J. SANFORD and his wife arc the parents of a baby girl bom last December. Ron is with Reaction Motors, Inc., Denrille, N. J. as an Associate Engineer. He is abo attending eve­ning classes at Newark College of English and is working for a master's degree. His address is 21 Birchvvood Terrace, Preakncss, N. J. 
195 1 Robert J. Klingenbergcr 
•^^ 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. ^Vayne, Indiana 
TO.M McGEE, 635 W. Meyer Blvd., Kansas City, 

Mo., is selling insurance for the Old American 
Insurance Company and likes it very much. Tom 
finished in 1954 after having been interrupted fay a 
tour of duty in the Coast Guard. He mentioned 
that he sees JACK PO\\'ELL and JACK WORTH­
INGTON occasionally. Also, he will be at the 
reimion. 
LOUIS E. TRi\CY, 202 Union Building, West CarroUton, Ohio, is an attorney and writes that he intends to be present at the reunion. 
An announcement fr.^m JOHN J. JOYCE brought the news of the birth of t\%-ins on March 10. They are Marcia Ann and Mary Catherine. Double con­gratulations, John. 
Mrs. Marten writes that JIM MARTEN, who was mentioned in the previous issue as having graduated from Georgetown Law School in 1954, is now working for the Home Loan Bank Board in Washington, D. C. Also, he was married to Miss Marie L. Cherry at Our ^fother of Sorrows Church in Johnstown, Pa., on September 17, 1955. They are now residing at 3462 Martha Curtis Drive, Alexandria, Va. Thank you for the news on Jim, Mrs. ^farten. 
FATHER BASIL, O.S.B. (VERNON ^V. BURK­

HART) writes that with God still willing, he wi^­
be ordained along with nine other monks in tllj * 
Conception Abbey Basilica in Conception, Mo., this 
spring. He has asked for our prayers and I know 
that we all wish him God's richest blessings. Vernon 
also writes that last year FATHER DAVE HOGAN 
was ordained and is now the assistant at St. 
Mary's Church in Remsen, Iowa, and also that 
FATHER MIKE DIEHL, 928 "C" Avenue, Doug­
las, Arizona, was ordained. 
JIM BATES, who graduated from Georgetown 
Law School in 1954, is now practicing law in Fort 
Wayne after serving n couple of years in ttS^ 
5cr\icc. Jim said that if you see Indiana license 
plates at the reunion with the letters and numerals 
of ND 1951, that it is his car. Incidentally, In­
diana plates this year are yellow on blue. 
BILL PUETZ, who has been moved by the Group Department cf the Travelers Insurance Com­pany tu Detroit, Michigan, told me that DAVE AMBERG is now with an accounting firm in Peoria, 
III. Also, that JERRY WOMBACHER is selling printing there and DICK ^VARD is also back in Peoria and working in a bank, after a tour of duty flying jets in Korea as well as other place-#, Bill also mentioned that PAT HENRY is practicing' law in South Bend. 
JIM HENNESSY forwarded a copy of a letter to JIM GILLIS, 69 Yorkshire Drive, Cedar Grove, 
N. J., who is with the FBI, and acknowledged a challenge on the handball courts In June. 
RUSSELL BARTA is doing important work with the Adult Education Program, sponsored In Chi­cago by Cardinal Striich. 
JOE BROSCOE recently graduated from the Navy Officers Candidate School in Ne\\-port, Rhode Island. 
JAMES M. DRISCOLL received a master's dc» , gree from the University of Pittsburgh at the" printer commencement. 
CHICAGO—^Those present at the speakers' table on Universal Notre Dame Nigbt are from left to right: Robert K. ^Villmouth, '50; James T, DoylCj '31, newly elected Treasurer; Phillip J, Faccenda, '51, newly elected Secretary and Chairman of the dinner; Rev, Roger J. Simpson of Ss. Peter and Paul Church, Alton, Illinois; John F. Morley, '35, newly elected Second Vice President; George M. Menard, '34, Toastmaster; Joseph A. McCabe, '33, retiring President of the Club; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S,C., Executive Vice President of Notr» Dame; Robert Emmett Wright, '42, newly elected Club President; William (Moose) Fischer, football line coach at the University; Francis J. Milligan, '45, First Vice President neivly elected and Thomas P. Brogan, '48, retiring Secretary of the Club. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, JunC'/uly, 1956 
That's all I have to report for now and I sup­pos e all of you fellows with known addresses have ^Mceived tlie impressive Ibt of reunionltes by now and, if your name is missing, now is the time to do something about it. See you aH on June 8, 9 and 10. 
1952 ^^^^^ L- Buch 
• '^ ^ 986 National Road AVhecKng, West Va. 
Have very little ntws at this \vriting. How about 

igtvcryone from the Class of '32 sending me their 
VEddress and a little nctvs as to what you are doing for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. TOM KING graduated from law school, passed the Ohio Bar and was immediately drafted into the Army. At last report he was engaged and going to be married in May before shipping to Germany. JOE PEROZZi is stationed at Fort Riley, Kansas. JOE COSTELLO and wife Marie had their second child on September 19, a girl, Beth. Their first, a boy, is two and a half years old. ift Received a birth announcement from JOHN ^*MOE" and Mary MORAN. A son, Kelly Pat­rick, was bom February 2, 1956. Judging from the card they now have three children, Kay, Kevin and Kelly. ED PERT of Beverly, Mass., is now married and working for the F.B.I. His last kno\%-n address was somewhere in Texas. Have a request for a few addresses of a couple of class members. How about DICK HEDDING and VIC KROEGER dropping me a line with their addresses. Heard JACK WELCH was drafted into the Navy. He went through boot at Bainbridge, Md. How ^' o you like Navy life. Jack? ' I also woi drafted into the Na\y and ivent 
through boot at Great Lakes. At present I am in Newport, R. I. While at boot camp I had quite an experience. Upon entering the battalion office, 
I was put through a third degree about Notre Dame. After it was all over I discovered the officer to be Lt. (jg) JIM SHAPIRO. At present he is at the 101st Ball., 10th Regiment, Great Lakes, 111. I must say he is quite proficient at chewing out the young recruits. One ne\*cr knows where he ^rill meet a fellow classmate. 

EDWARD P. MERICA has been employed by £^ e Dow Chemical Company as an Organic Chemist. ^' RUDOLPH M. UNGER is now working for the 
Chicago Tribune. JOSEPH P. O'BRIEN received a bachelor of 

YOUNGSTO^VN—George H. Kelley, '28, assistant managing editor of the Vindicator (sec­ond from left) received the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award from Attorney Paul Guamieri, '36, the 1955 recipient. Looking on are Charles B. Gnshwa, Jr., chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation in the Youngstow-n district and Griff Allen, president of the Notre Dame Club of Youngsto^vn. 
science degree in education from Ohio State Uni­versity at the winter convocation on March 16. 
WILLIAM G. GREIF has been named assistant city attorney in Evansville, Ind. Bill is with the Law Finn of Walker and Walker. 
JOHNNY DEE, head basketball coach at Ala­bama, has resigned to enter private business. For­merly assistant to John Jordan at Notre Dame, his 1955-55 Alabama team won the Southeast Conference championship and wss ranked fifth in the nation. 
That's all the news I have at this writing- Take a few minutes and drop me a card so that we can fill our column in the next issue. 

MIAMI—^New officers of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami are congratulated by the outgoing president, Ed Kelly, second from left, upon their installation. The new group in­cludes, from left to right, Ed Hanlcy, treasurer; Mike Zorovich, presi­dent, and Dan Rowlands, secretary. Thomas W. Reedy 
1953 
337 Wagner Road Northficid, Illinois 

My sincere thanks to GENE FANNING for pinch-hitting for me in the column for the past year and a half while I was in Greece. *'Car a Day" Fanning has had quite a year and a half of it. Started in partnership with his brother to bring Chevrolets to the people in Geneva, Illinois. Things got so good that they moved to Aurora with Fan­ning Chevrolet where they are currently a smash success. Sandwiched in between Sell-A-Thons, Gene somehow found time to become engaged and was married over the Christmas holidays. Once r^ain Gene, many thanks. 
ANDY ADELHARDT is currently an Engineer for Republic Aviation Corp. at the Fanningdale, New York plant. He writes he has 1} taken the deep plunge—married an old sweetheart in Sept. '53; 2) now has a family addition—redhead Regina Anne; 3) dove into debt for a new rambling ranch house in Augtut, 1955; and 4) has been recently promoted to Unit Head Supervisor of all Fusion Welding and Chemical Processes in the Manufac­turing Research and Process Dept. at Republic Aviation Corp. Hope you don't have to put that title on your door, Andy. 
STEVE BERRY is a U-a Navy ensign—now flight instructor for students in advanced multi-engine training at Naval Air Station, Hutchinson, Kansas. Steve returns to the army of the charcoal gray in November, '57. 
ART CALLAGHAN is an attomey-at-law with the firm of Brausem, Callaghan & Koenig at 60 Park Place, Newark, N. J. Art is active in general practice but specializes in trial of negligence cases. 
LENNY BUTLER of Oxnard, Califomia^-still single, was discharged from the Navy in July and is now learning the real estate business with the firm of Caldwell, Banker and Co. at Statler Center in Los Angeles. 
BILL DEMPSEY is a salesman for the Burroughs Corporation in "Roshtcr" Nw'Ydrkl Bill left the Navy and the U.S.S. Andromeda, AKA15 in June. 
JOHN CORRIGAN graduated from the Univer­sity of Florida Law School in January and just took the bar this month. Now is awaiting the results and also waiting for the Anny to dedde whether they want him or not. John writes that his son, Timothy John, was bom on Feb. 21, 1956. At present John is practicing law ^Wth the Jack­sonville, Fla. firm of Jennings, Watts, Clarke and Hamilton. 
LOU DOERR is a U.S.A.F. 1st Lt. currently stationed at Pcrrin AFB, Sherman, Texas where he is instructing youngsters in the &ie points of the T-33 and F86-D's. 
ERNIE DUPRAW is a student at Columbia Uni­versity in New York City and has a feUowihqi, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June'July, 2956 55 

spfliiieHifliuniiiils 
JAMES A. ALLAN, '28 
As a graduatCj Magna Cum Laudc, both in 1928 from the College of Arts and Letters and in 1930 from tlie Col­lege of Law, James A. Allan did not realize that he would spend liis busi­ness life with an insurance company. 
He is now Assistant Secretary' of Liunbermen's Mutual Casualty Com­pany and American Motorists' Insur­ance Company, with dieir home offices in Cliicago and is manager of the Workmen's Compensation Claim De­partments of diose companies. 

Jim is a member of the \Vorkmen's Compensation committee of the Illi­nois State Chamber of Commerce, is associated with tlie law firm of Smidi, Rowe, Bloom & Allan and is a mem­ber of the American Bar Association and the Chicago Bar Association. 
Bom at Scales Mound, a few miles from the highest point in Illinois, he has been living in Chicago since grad­uation e.Kcept for a year's residence in Detroit. 

He lives at 1423 Fargo Avenue with his wife, the former Katherine Ditt­mar, and son James. Young Jim en­rolls at Notre Dame in September fol­lowing a family tradition of three great-uncles, one uncle, six second cousins and one cousin. 
He obtained las M.A. degree from Columbia and is now a Ph.D. candidate hard at work on the Ph.D. thesis. Emte has a brand new baby boy to help him turn the pages—bom March lOth. 
TONY CARXE\^-\LE is at Photographic Inter­pretation School, Washington, D. C, and was com­missioned Ensign la^t September from OCS, New­port, after receiving his M.S.I.E. from Columbia University. 
56 Nofre Dame AlumnuSj June-July, 1956 
VICTOR BUKOLT was discliargcd from the Navy in July last year and had been stationed at Charleston, South Carolina for tlie two years prior to discharge. Vic is an industrial engineer for the Lullabyc Fum. Coqi. of Stevens Point Corp. He engineers *'s!eep" into the Lullabye mattresses and suggests all you sleepers hop out and load up on LuHabye products before they're all gone. 
JIM "BIMBO" BRITT of Toledo fame is an accountant for Arthur Young and Co. during the days and attends Toledo Uni\"ersity law school at night. .Mso finds time to belong to the Junior Chamber of Commerce, N.D. /Vlumni, Big Brothers and is an active member of the married set having a grand total of 2^2 little Britts underfoot. 
And now wc come to CHARLES L. DOHERTY, JR., who writes in answer to our post card ques­tionnaire: "Hi Lad. Left Marine Corps in August 1955. Off to South America Sunday. Will be a banker with the First Nat'I. City Bank of Bogota Colombia. Love Chas." Under "Married'* Chas. writes "I tried.*' Let's all hope he doesn't go native do^vn there in South America. 
GEXE BERGIN is waiting to finish up three years of sen-ice with the Navy in November \tfith the other members of DCS Class IB. He expects to return from the Mediterranean in October where he is with the 6th Fleet. 
GERARD J. aVRTY is at White Sands Proving Grounds \rith the Army. He is awaiting discharge after being out of the States for most of his hitch. Gerard will enter some branch of Civil Engineering but as yet is undecided as to the exact company. 
LT. (js) JOE CURLEY is currently at Camp Lcjeune serving as liaison oflicer for the 2nd Marines. 
JOHN D.\YTON is a sales teclinidan in the plastics department of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. He is liWng in Lombard, Illinois and is mar­ried %vith one child. 
PAUL BRAUNLICH, AO 3010777 is presently an Air Police Officer at Woodbridge AFB, England and in May of this year expects to enter Notre Dame law school to finish up his last two years law training. Paul writes that he has one child and they are e.^ccting another in several months. 
MIKE DOYLE writes: "Like most of us I was a free man for only about two short months after graduation until Uncle Sam stepped in. In Camp Gordon, Georgia, I ran into PAT DREW, VAJ0 LEE and JIMMY GIBBONS. From Ga. I fount* my v%-ay to Korea foi- 16 raos. where I sa^v ED BUCKIE\VICZ, RALPH PAOLONE and DICK WOLFGR^VM. Ran into RONNY LaPOINTE and DON STRASSER in Tckyo. Had a most enjoyable time at CHUCK McMAHON*s wedding six weeks ago. Di\N MURPHY, father of two, I think, and JACK KELLY represented our class at the affair and in the drinking department I can truly say it was very, very well represented." 
GEORGE BLUBAUGH has been out of tht service for 3 months and is now working as ^ sales agent for the Sclilairct Transfer Co. Says he's on the road most of the time selling trucking service. George has a 5-month-old boy—a redhead —and is buyin;; a home this month. 
DICK DOUGLAS is serving with the Army in Chicago at the Army Audit Agcnc>'. BOB BERNER is in liis third year of Harv-ard Law School. 
IV^\N DOWLING of Chariottetown, Prince Ed­ward Island, Canada, Is heading the mathematics department at the Prince of Wales College. 
NEIL BUTLER is attending the Hartford Bran-^ of the Reniselaer Polytechnic Institute, majoring in Mechanical Engineering and minoring in Nuclear Engineering. Neil is getting married on June 30, 1956 to Miss Kathleen Quirk. 
DON AN*THONY has been with the G.E. Co. for several years and is presently a supervisor in experimental ph>'sics at the Knolls Atomic Power Lab of the General Electric Company at Schenec­tady, New York. 
JOSEPH BUTTAFUOCO has been in service since Nov. 12, 1953 and Is now stationed in Ger­many. Joe graduated from ND law and passed his bar exam on the first try. ^ 
ALBERT J. CRIST of Green Bay, Wis., is a social worker at the Wisconsin State Reformatory. 
GERRY BOEHLLVG wxites from Richmond, Vir­ginia where he Is working at the Cargill and Wilson Advertising Agency, "Just working hard—no mar­riage plans—having a great time driving my M.G. in local sport car rallies," 
PAT COFFEY is a Navy Lt. (jg) stau'oncd at Norfolk, Virginia and is married with two children. 
MUSKEGON—Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., addressed alumni and guests on tli? occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night. Speakers' table, left to right: J. Frank OehlhofTen, scholarship chairman; Mrs, Oehlhoffen; Mrs, George Ludwig; Mr. Lud^vig, city chairman of ND Fotmdation; Father O'Donnell; Joseph Kcusch, event co-chairman; Mrs. Keusch; Allan Powers, Foundation area director from the campus; Rev. Albert A. Kehren; and State Foundation Governor C. M. Vcrbiest, of Detroit 
Jin gels out in June and is planning to go to New ^Pbrk to work tipo.) separation. BILL DUDINE, Lt. (jg) USX invites cvcr\- able bodied ND grad to a party in Newport at the 
U.S.N. separation cented when Lt. {jg)'s BOB FINNEY, ROGER ZOELLNER and BILL DU­DINE get out in June. Bill will be in law school at Gcorgcloun in September. 
EDWARD DcBOER is an electrical engineer with the General Electric Co. at Schenectady, New York. He is a design engineer of synchronous motors and ANG generators. Ed mentioned that 

g^ey toured the Hawaiian Islands this past August 
^fii their honeymoon and now are ''expeclins" in July. 
JOE DUMBR03KY completed two years in the Anny in September and started working with U.S. Steel in November as an industrial engineer. Joe and his wif-: are livmg Pt Wilmcrding, PcnnsyK-ania. 
REV. ROBERT DENTZMAN, O.F.M., is a Mathematics instructor at the Muskegon Catholic Central High School. Father Bob taught math at St. Joseph's SemiRar\-. Wcstniont. Illinois from graduation until 1935 and was transferred to Mus­

.Af.Ton. Michigan in August 1955. He is Director 
Wf Adult Education and Director of Publicity at the high school. AVith six classes a day. he writes, there is not much lime for anvthing else. TO.M aVNTWELL is with the U. S. -Vaw in the Civil Engineers Corps. A Lt. (jg). Tom Is stationed at the USN Ordnance Test Station at China Lake, California, where he i; Maintenance Officer. Previous ;o his tour at China Lake, he was stationed on Guam. 
RICHARD ADLER is ;a sales engineer for the Federal Telephone and Radio Corporation of Clif­lon. New Jersey. He is matried with three daugh­

ter s and attends law school at NYU at night. 
V JOSEPH ANGEL was just released from active duty with the Army on March 7. 1956. Joe was stationed with the 65tli Engineering Battalion at Schofield Barracks. Hawaii for the past year. He has now rejoined the firm of Chas, L. Barber and .•\ssociatc.s of Toledo. Ohio .xs a registered architect. JOHN COX is married, !ias a baby girl one year old, and is a television producer-director at WBNS­TV in Columbus. Ohio. John is getting a liberal education in the entertainment field, producing, directing and promoting public service shows and filling in with public relations in his spare lime. 
MIKE DOLJVN is now stationed as a Lt. (jg) £:^oard the U.S.S. O'Brien DD 421 operating out 
•^ Key AV'est, Florida and points east. ^iickcy writes: "In Key West. Fla. till .May. Enter Flight Training at Pensacula, Fla. in June. My lovely bride-to-be is a wonderful convert from Sharon, 
K/VNSAS CIT\'—Club President Russ Farrell 

Mass. -Ml ND men of 1953 are invited to the wedding—II a.m. at Our Lady of Sorrows in Sharon, Mass." 
TOM DEGE and his wife and children, Mike, born on the last day of the year in 1954 and Kathi, born thii Februar>' IGtJi, live in Manchester, Conn. Tom Is a test engineer for Pratt and Whitney Air­craft of East Hartford, Conn. 
LEO DOHN is stationed with the Army at Fort Greeley, Seattle, Washington, as a member of the Arctic Test Team. 
FATHER EDWARD AKS.UIAITIS, M.I.C., now heads the English Department at the Marianapolis Prep3rator>- school. Thompson, Conn. 
HUGH BR.\UN Is at the University of .Michigan as a Law Student. 
MAYNARD BISSONNETTE leads the pack with four (4) ciiildrcn. He is President of the Kankakee Valley Notre Dame Club and has a pri\-atc law practice in Kankakee, Ill'nois. He writes "Dick CIano% Ed Beinor and several others of us have organized the Kankakee Valley Notre Dame Club. Our first meeting was March, 1956, UND dance is set for April. 1956. V.'e are hoping that we have a strong and active club. I am Democratic candidate for Slates Attorney for Kankakee Coun­tv. It's a longshot!" 
JACK DILENSCHNEIDER is married with a baby girl and cirrently awaiting discharge from the .Army. He is Editor of the Ft. Ifolabtrd publi­cations and plans to return to the Midwest and Law School in Sept. 
Beginning Law ' School at the University of Wyoming is JLM APPLEGATE. Still single, Jim returned from the Marine Corps in September. 
Srr%-ing as .Administrative Assistant to the Honor­able Joseph P. Kennedy at the Kennedy Execu­tive ofVicc-> in .New York City is AL DcCR.\NE. .M and Joan have one child and arc living in Mctuchen. New Jersey. 
PAT DREW entered Columbia Law School last fall after serx'ii.g with the military for 13 months in Europe. 
MORRIE CONWAY is noiv studying for an advanced degree in Business at the University of Portland and reports he Is at present scouring the Oregon counCr>*sIdc for a good matrimonial prospect. 
JOE BABBITT who gives his occupation as **Professional Student" writes from Tuscon, Ari­zona ''Married one Miss Michelc Morlarty last September and now getting ready for graduation In June when I will take the Arizona Bar Exam. Last year roomed with Terr>' Britt, '53, who also got married {to Coleen Kearns) and is now in ser\"Icc." 
 presents 'appreciation plaque* to Dr. D. M. 
Nigro (left) at the 1956 2oth Anniversary Rockne Club Dinner. From left to right: Father Tighe, Dr. Nigro, Farrell, Oklahoma Coach Bud Wilkinson and Phil Snowdcn, most valuable Aj high school player of the year. 
JOHN L. MARTIN, *47 

John L. Martin, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1947, is president of the Martin Equipment Company, \Vabash, Ind. His or^nization has been able to develop for the foundry trade a completely new concept on "fumes collection" by introducing the Hawley Fumes Control System and allied equipment. His company now manufactures and sells several new foundry machines and also has a gen­eral line of disposable tools and ma­chinery'' for woodworking plants. He is active in the Knights of Columbus and is the Faithful Navigator of the Bishop Noll General Assembly in Hunt­ington, Ind., for the second term. John is a member of the Serra Club, the Elks and the Notre Dame Club of Fort WajTie. He and his wife are the par­ents of three children, Danny, 8, Tom­my, 6, and Patty, 3. 
DON DORINI is doing his bit with the Uncle as a Coa>t Guard aviator stationed at the Naval Air Station in Corpus Christi, Texas. Don has iwo boys. 
JLM BRODEUR Is working for General Electric Appliances Co, in Orlando, Florida, where he has just been transferred from Jacksonville. Brods writes, "Let me know if anyone is coming down this way as I wooild like to sec them." 
Working as an Assistant Traffic Supervisor for the New York Bell Telephone Co. in the Division Office of Hcmpst-ad, Long Island is DICK ANDERSON. Dick married Irene T. Kaczmarek in February 1954. Writes he met D.AN REILLY at the N.D- retreat in Jamaica, Long Island in March of this year. D.AN will start a 2 year tour with the Air Force in June. 
ART CASEY is in the GE Management Train­ing Program in Forest Hills. New York. ERNIE BUCKLEY is living in Bloomfleld, New Jersey with hi-: wife and 2 daughters and is 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj June-July^ 1956 57 
Accounting Manag-r at the New York Telephone 
Company. He's attending Xcvv York University 
Xight sclioo! obtaining liis Master's Degree in 
Businrss Administration. Expects to have it by 
June 1957. Ernie reports "Enjoying married life 
with a wonderful wife and family.*' 
LEN C0RCOR^\X is a supervisor at the A. C. 
Nielsen Co., Chicajo market research and tabulat­
ing firm. He got off the boat on New Year's 
Eve after spending 9 months in Germany with 
the U.S. Army. AVas discharged In January* and 
since then *'IA'C been getting used to being a 
civilian again." 
DAN COLLINS is a student at the Stritch School of Medicine, Lovola Univcrsitv in Chicago. DR. PANOS D. BARDIS is a professor at Albion Collcsc, Albion, Michigan. He is actively engaged in teaching, research and writing. 
Lt- (jg) JOE BUCKHEIT is CIC officer aboarti the USS John Hood (DD655) now at Norfolk, Va. Joe was ivith the 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean from Nov. to Feb. and is now going to Northern Europe with the Middle Cruise "A" group. 
ANGELO V. BOY is a teacher of ^fathematics at A. N. Parlin Jr. Higli School in Everett, Mass. He will marr>- Miss Barbara Samie of Pcabodv, Mass., on April 14, 1956. 

BILL AHERN is a law student at St. John's University in Kings Park. Long Island. Bill some­how finds lime to run his own real estate and insurance firm on the side at 27 Main St., Kings Park, N. Y., aud won't be adverse to writing all the $10,000 ordinary life polides tlic \-ariou5 members of the Class of *53 feci they should have. 
JIM COYNE is a metallurgist with the Pratt 

and Whitney .Aircraft Corp. in Hartford, Conn. 
He is currently working on the development of 
alloys for jet engines and is also attending grad 
school. 
ED CONTI is an instructor at the AAA & GM 

School in Ft. Bibs, Texas. Was working for 
Sylvania Electric Products, Inc. from June 1953 
till Feb. '55 when he was drafted into the Army. 
JOS. DELIS! is Manager of Brink's Inc. in Kalamazoo, Miclugan. 
ED COLLINS got out of the Army in December and started with the Prudential Life Ins. Co. as an insurance agent at Rialto, California, in Janu­ary-. 
BILL DUNH,AM is a salesman for the Larry Dunham Co. in Greenville, South Carolina. Bill writes that he served with the Marines in Quan­tico. Camp Pendleton and Korea and is now aiding in the formation of a South Carolina Notre Dam= Club. 
TIM CAIN is selling mattresses for the Scaly Mattress Co. in Pottstown, Pa. 
BOB BOEHMER is a cost analysis engineer with General Motors in Detroit. He went into the /\rmy ia October '53 and spent 2 years as an instructor in the Engineer School and "then back to civilian job and night grad school." 
BROTHER JOSEPH A. DUDEK, CS.C. is a teaching brother In the Congregation of Holy Cross. Brother Joseph is now x\thlettc Director and teacher of science and math at Holy Trinity School in Chicago. 
WALTER J. CHOMYN writes life Insurance 

PHOENIX—Director of Athletics Edward Krause spoke to alumni and guests on Universal Notre Dame Night. Left to right: William Mahoncy, county attorney; Gene A. Hoeschler, club president; and Krausc. 
for the Phocnbc Mutual Life Ins. Co. in Soutj Bend, Indiana. Says Walt "I am making pri posals, protecting the family breadwinner ani showing individuals how to save money througl life insurance." Some Pitch—eh? 
MIKE BURKE is married with 3 children and s^ radio engineer at the Indiana Bell Telephone Co.] in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
BOB DREY graduates in June from Drake'; University School of Law. 
CHARLES BRETZ is married and li\ing in Cleveland, Ohio, where he is a Boy's Referee the Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court. His woi involves hearing juvenile cases of delinqucnc>', non-support and dependcno*. 
D.AVE AUGSBURGER is an auto underwriter with the State Farm Mutual Auto Ins. Com pany. Although D-ive is now workin-? in Normal. Illinois, he will move tc Columbia, Mo. in August when the new company branch office is opened. 
JIM GIBBONS, basketball coach at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago, will direct the destinies of the school's baseball team this spring. 
JACK ALESSANDRINI has recently signed witj the Baltimore Colls of the National Footbidl Lcaguf Now a lieutenant ir. the Air Force, he u-as due to be discliarged on March 1st. 
JOHN B. CLx\RK has recently become a mem­ber of the sales department of Monsanto Chemical Company's Plastics Division in Springfield, Mass. 
EMORY DAKOSKE is an accountant with Bohn Aluminum and Brass Co. in Detroit. Emor>* has 2 boys and lives in Allen Park, Michigan. 
JAMES BARANY Is a Junior Engineer with BcndL-c Axiation Corp. in South Bend. He has just completed two years in the Army Engineet, Corps after a tour of dut>' in the Far East wi^ . the 3rd Engineers and has now returned to the Experimental Fuel Metering Dept. of Bendix. 
A student at Illinois Normal University. D.AVE COSTIGAN is working on his master's degree in Educition. Dave, is married, has one child with aimthrr on the way. 
ELLIOT DONABEDIAN is now engaged in graduate work in Business Administration at Indi­ana University, Bloominglon, Indiana. 
THOMAS DOHERTY is another Bell Tell man, ser\ing as ^fanaRcr of tht* Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Cmwfordsvillc, Indiana. Tom Is married ^^ and has one child. ^^ 
BILL BE.\UCHAMP is a promotion writer for the American Broadcasting Company in Chicago ^ and appear* in on the air program promotion announcements for ABC-TV station WHKB in '' Chicago. 
JOE COSTANZO and wife Marilyn (formeriy^' Marilyn Joughin of SMC) claim leadership in tlic^ heir department with 2 strong-lunged entries. Joe C, III, and Laura Jean, age 18 and 5 months respectively. You're crowding the front runners Joe, 2 behind, but with a start like that we'll be watching the Fall issue for latest developments. 
Jos Is the Sales Manager for the William 10^2] Bowler Co., Investment House. He wTites: "My ^ doings . . . sometimes I wonder, but 1*11 tell %\ you a little about our firm. At present we have ^ approximately 25 m^n and women with the | Organization by and large all are relatively younc* and real eager. Average age is approximately 30 years. As the upper Icfi hand comer of this , stationery Indicates—there were 4 branches up toj] a month ago, but now there are 6. You will 
• note the branch ia NYC. Most firms start in New York and move west. AVe started in Brad­ford, Pa., and moved East to New York an^^ hope c\-cntually to have 20 branches. We attemiri to cover the entire investment field. Needless to say, Tom, business i= wonderful and I hope to be | J In it until I'm 90." 
Tlic response to our post card questionnaire^' which we sent out to the Class of '53 members^ from A to D was really great. I'm up to my^i lights in post cards and am sorrj* that spaced' limitations allowed us to orint only half of the'] replies in this issue. Will publish the ones wej missed in our next issue. 
Many thanks to John Cackley of the N Foundation Office, Editor of the ALUMNUS, f7. -^ getting our mailing out in record time. ^^ 
DON GRIEUX and WALT MURPHY are hardj" at wo'k at Georgetown Law School. Former '53,y men back to finish up at N.D. include BILL^ GAUDREAU, JIM CONERTY. J. D. CHISHOLM and BILL RILEY. Goody and Jim are Vetville'"^ residents, while Jim and Chiz are working at the^| Morris Inn. Ed Farrell, another returnee, com^ pleted^ courses for his B.A. In Januar>-. BUCKJ HENNIGAN, due tc be released from the Navy^flj soon, may wind up in N.D.'s Graduate School in] September. SMC's Nancy Driscoll, from our era. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-Julyj 1956 

Due to the fact that mail is somewhat behind me while the GUNSTON HALL steams to Hawaii for maneuvers^ I don't have the usual number of letters that stem from the most recent issue of the ALUMNUS. One letter that I do have asks a question of prime importance, the query being, "How do I make an annual contribution to the Alumni Fund?" The ans\ver lies in the following: mail your contribution to the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA.ME FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA. 
Other nc\.-s comes from some of the local San Diego sailors such as Lt. (Jg) HILARY RAUCH %vho is serving on the USS WORCHESTER as a CIC Officer. Lt. (jg) JERRY TURLEY likes his job at boot camp out here so welt that he is going to extend his enlistment another year. Lt. (jg) MIKE XfAHONEY is enjoying his work with the Na^y Port Control OfHce in this area. Lt. (Jg) CHRIS MALONE is the Personnel Officer on the USS TUL.\RE (AKAI12) and with his career rapidly coming to a close he can probably lay claim to the class's shortest tour of overseas duty, a scant eight day tour in Yokosuka, Japan. Lt. (jg) MILT BEAUDINE is the Gunnery Officer on the USS DIACHENKO (APD.123) and hopes to get a round out of Iils 5"/38 battery before lie is retired in June. Lt. (jg) JAKE NOONAN showed up in town for more school this month. He claimed they looked around for the least productive man on the ship to send and ended up with him. They had to take him off of TAD shore patrol in San Francisco to do it. 
Had a card from ED SWEENEY who reports he is teaching history, civics, safety and phy-ed at Westcr\*ille Junior High, Westerville, Illinois. In addition to th''se duties he is also coaching basketball and track. 2Lt. GEORGE KOCH re­ports in from the following address: "B " Co. 553 
E.B. (C), APO N. Y., N. Y. He is stationed at Maison Fort just outside of Orleans, France. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—John E. Mclntyrc (left), first vice-president of the Notre Dame 
George reports . . . *'I'm saving my leave time 
Alumni Association, received the St. Joe Valley's Man of the Year award on Universal Notre and intend to head to Lourdes, Barcelona, the Dame Night. The presentation was made by Robert Lehman, outgoing president who Riviera and Rome—sometime in May. Back in 
November, I ran into JOE LEONETTI who is 
ser>*ed as toastmastcr for the dinner. 
%vith a ililitar>- Police unit up in Germany, We were both on a field problem and almost knocked each other over in the semi-darkness that existed at five a.m. I received a letter from BOB GRAY \vho is in a signal unit up in Heidelberg. He now 5ecrctar>' to John Dcfant at the University to a most wonderful Miss Ruth Collins of La recently ran into HARVEY NEWQUIST and 
Jolla, California. Ruth spent one year at St. 

ALARK HEALY at Fort Monmouth where they 
Mar>''s but it took a Nav>- assignment on the 
^^hanks to Prof. Tom Strilch's recent "Ahimni arc taking special courses in guided missiles. JOE Bulletin" on the JonrnaHsm Department's gradu­West coast to arrange the introduction. Many SHELLEY is in haw School at St. John's; 2Lt. 

thanks to the Na\'>-, of course, but I am anxious 
ates, w- can report the whereabouts of the follow­JOHN PIGOTT is at Stallings AFB in North 

to sec my enlistment pass In that \vc are planning 
ing Press Club veterans: Carolina and TOM VENTRO is working in New 

to be married upon its termination, June 30th 

"CHICK" DEMINSKI is doing public relations Jersey. . . . 
" 
of this year. Wc pUr. to settle in Dayton, so 
work for U. S. Steel in ^^Qrrisvillc, Pa. Working I'll be looking fonvard to hearing from you at XLARION LESZCZYNSKI sent a note while on his for New York's ^raxoa Advertising is JOE DUR-the above noted civilian address. way to Korea and somewhere in the area of the 

KIN, wiio now lives at 309 Mosholu Parkway in the Bronx. JACK FINK is back with "Our Sunday Visitor" in Huntington, Ind., after his stint in the Army, which ended in January. 
More journalists: JIM GANNON is still on the *i?zncss" end of a microphone, currently for 

SAN DIEGO—Oklahoma Football Coach Bud Wilkinson, seated left, was guest of honor 
fflilZ in Eau ClaJre. Wise. RAY MUMBLE is at a luncheon prior to his appearance as the principal speaker at San Diego's second annual now working for Safeway Stores in Lakewood, 
Appreciation Night banquet which was co-sponsored by the Notre Dame Club and St. Angus* 
Colo. Back East, PAT LEE is doing research with Ted Bates Advertising .Agency and gives his tine High School. Ver>* Rev. John R. Aheme, O.S.A., seated right, principal of St. Augus­address as 218 West End Ave., Ridgcwood, N. J. 
tine, was luncheon host for the group which included the banquet general chairman, G. R. 
At last report: ED GIACONflNI and JACK 

HUMMEL were still In ser\-ice. Lt. (jg) Ed is Bill, *29, standing right, and committeemen Thomas J. Carter, '51, left, stationed at Newport, R- I., and Jack at Ft. and John B. Sulli\*an, '48. Knox (Batt. Schoa*. 709 Tank Bn., 3rd Armored Div.). Ensign DICK DALEY is also at Newport. SfTCond Lt. BOB RUST is linng with his wife and kiddies at 515 Osage Ave, Manhattan, Kans. iaiJ^RY LcBLANC'S overseas address is Sen,-. Co. 6J Inf., APO 85I-D, New York, N. Y. MORT LUBY should be back running "Bowl­ing ^fagazinc" in Chicago by now. TOM .MURPHY is in graduate work at Wisconsin U., while AL FITZGIBBON gives his address as 7019 Delmar, University City. Mo. At N.D., DON Cc\RBONE is working for a master's, and doinc grad work at Fordham is BOB ZIER, 91 Waldrcn Ave., Glen Rock, N. j . 
.\ugmenting the military* group of Notre Dame 
T^^vnni in San Diego is PATRICK ROSS whose i ^ mailing address is PAMI 86, Box 1200, Naval Air Station, Nortli Island, San Diego 35, Calif. 
lOR ^ George A. Pflaum, Jr. 
• '^ t 200 Squirrel Road Dayton 5^ Ohio 
Nearly devoid of news of the class for this 

•svue which might allow ms to spend a few more ifH lines than I should rightfully extend myself to 
explain some of my own good fortune.. It has re­itly and luckily happened that I became engaged 
«' 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
CONNECTICUT—Participants in the state-wide alumni meeting held in Hartford included, left to right: Father Hesburgh, principal speaker; Most Rev, Henrj- J. O'Brien, Archbishop of Hartford; Most Rev. John F. Hackett, Auxiliary Bishop of Hartford; Gov. Abraham A. Ribicoff of Connecticut; and U. S. Representative Thomas J. Dodd. 
Wood and lie smin will wend liis way toward Germaiiv. I sfc tlic innkings of an altiiimi club in the' Black Forest. BOB NEVERIL and GEORGE RIORDAN liavc completed tlie course at Officers Candidate School in Newport. I under­stand that Bob was lucky enough to be sent to sea while Georga has the agony prolonged at Xa\"y Supply Corps Schoid in Athens, Georgia. MARK HErVLY has chosen tli= Amiy, or the other way around, and Is stationed at Fort Monmouth, X. J. Wearing a tt-n-gallon hat and drilling for oil we ^Ind .MIKE CULLIKAN who is working for the 
-Hulf Oil Co. in Houston. If you're having any luck, MikCf I have some back pay I'd be willing to invest. 
While reading the Xax-v Times. I noticed that JI.M EHRET and ROCCO TANXONE had also graduated from the Xavy O.C.S. course in New­port, I haven't heard linything further but I'll be wailing for a note from them when they get settled aboard ship. For Rock's sake, I hope they have a trampoline aboard his vessel. Training, you know! GEORGE ROOXEY has forsaken the textbooks for the U.S. Marines and I understand 
^tha t Jersey City wept as he boarded his train. 

wii recall those noble words, "I shall return.'* JIM OWENS has been in and out of Kansas City a few time^ durin;; the last few weeks and I had the chance to slow him d"wn and talk with him for a spLll. lie looks none the worse for wear but says that he misses those Saturday morning classes. He was off again before I could ask him what classes he was speaking about. Could it be that his mind is 5till at South Bend? 
While ill Xew York at a conference a few weeks ago. I dropped ovtr to see FRANK CUNNING­HAM who is holding forth at the Xa\"y Exchange. 

jjfYBayonne Xaval Base in Xew Jersey. Frank looked 
^'prosperous in his 1956 Ford and told ine that even Mao''s was feeling the efTect of his merchandising efTorts. ROY BELKNAP was regular as clockwork with his letter again and breaks tlic news that the wedding date has been set for June 9th. The bride is Miss Maureen Sullivan from Dallas, Texas. Congratulations to both on a ver\- happv occasion. Roy also mentioned that OWEX DUGAN had re­ceived duly at Quonsct Point as supply officer. The luck of the Irish! You can reach Roy by writing to him c/o Co. J. NSCS, Athens, Ga. 
^;^^ED KELLY also attended the conference in New 
•J'York and dropped me a line after he returned to work at the Naval Air .Station. Grosse Isle. Mich. Ed says that JOE FOXTANA is on duty for three montln in Puerto Rico with the Marines. Sounds like a golden deal. TOM PETTERESCH is also on duty with Ed at Grosse Isle and has a birthday coming up on the 30lh of March. By the time this is printed, Tom will have been the victim of a surprise party in honor of the occa­sion. Further on in Ed's letter he reports that he Hew up to Glcnvi*?w in a jet and happened to run into JOHN HAMILTON who is stationed 
« 
there. This term "run into" intrigues me. Did it happen before or after you landed. Ed? Flash! Rumor has it that ED DEMPSEY will return from the Persian Gulf for Easter. I had heard that his ship had become a permanent fixture in that area. 
BILL REiVLE sent an epistle worthy of St. Paul himself and included the following news which helps considercbly to fill up this class column. Bill says that t.c ir spending his time as a com­mercial representative for the Telephone Company in Mansfield, Ohio. Bu-iiness is booming! Bill's ex-roominaic, STEVE REBORrV, was a patent draftsman in Chicago before he left for Newport, 

R. I., where he Is now in training at the U. S. Xav-al OCS school there. Bill.mentions that he and Steve arc going to be at DON SCHAEFER'S wed­ding when he gets married in Pittsburgh this June. Congratulations, Don, and drop me a line on the ceremony so I can include names and places in the next column. Bill reports further that he spent a few days at X.D. and while there sa'y JOHN ROGERS, RON SMITH, ED FOX, JOHN MARCHAL, BILL .McCL.AIN and DON MOTTL who are all in law school. FRANK TONINI still 
GEORGIA—Notre Dame scholarship fund check was presented by the Atlanta Club's Schol­arship Chainnan, William H. Ricke, to Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. This $500 check is the Grst of a scries to be given to the University by Atlanta alimini. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 61 
TRI-CITIES—The annual *father-son banquet* proved to be a great success again this year. 
38lh Parallel. He Invites anyone in tliat area to drop Pctisacola. I had a chance to visit AL WALTER JOHN GUSTANIUS is a pilot with the 40tl; 
by for a visit. Marion sends tlic following - . . and his lovely wife before going overseas. Al Refueling Squadron located at Smoky Hill Ati 
"I ran into LARRY ASH recently and lie is mentioned that BRUCE HARRISON h with the Base in Saltna, Kansas. 
starionrd with tlic Navy .Air Corps in Rhode Nav>- in Formosa; PETER FRANK is in Panama DICK ROSENTHAL was named to the IQJfig 
Island aftrr earning his wings at Christmas time. with the Army, and DICK GERCKEN is cn-Armed Forces Press Scr\*icc all-star basketball team. 
JACK 0'HAR.\ is acting as a flight Instructor at joying Europe through the courtesy of the Army.' He is with 5th Army Hqs. at Chicago. ROL/VNDO LUNA recently received a Mai0 of Business Administration degree from St. Louis Unlvcrsitv. PFC. RICHARD ROBISON is stationed in Ger­
PITTSBURGH—^A feature of the club's UND Night meeting was the presentation of an 
many with tht Army engineers. He Is In the award to outgoing prcxy Earl Brieger. Left to right: Brieger; Leo Vogel, Sr., first president process of ori;anIzing a Notre Dame alumni get' 
of the local club in 1922; and president-elect Leo Vogel, Jr. 
together in Europe. Dick's address Is: US 55 
522 8&i, Co. B, 41st Engr. Bn, APO 36, New York 
N. Y. 
JOSEPH A. HELFRICH, who Is studying dentls­tr>' at the University of Pittsburgh, recently wroti an article In the Pitt maga2lne entitled. "Cera­;| mics In Dental Education.** Joe. as far as -^^
PITTSB 

known. Is the first person to adapt ceramic t^S 
to the making of a biological model for professional] 
teaching. Also, it was probably the first employ 
meat of a motor activity involving ceramic clay 
In a basic dental labr.rptTV', 
I hrd a card from TOM MURPHY who wa­busy travelling through India. Hong Koug and] the Philippines while on leave from his dut\-j station with the Army In Japan. Tliat abom sums up the news from this end. Request that those of yon who arc somewhat settled with a n-rraanent addn^s forward same to me s" ij^l T can stcrt collecting a class mailing list ^ > organize we world travellers a bit. 
lOBC Ens. Thomas F. O'lMalley 
•''^• ' 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 
The snow has cleared from the cold and frigid i mid-xvest and as the birds return. T also return | to the kc\-board for my third tr>' at keeping the i clan of *55 Informed .md happy. 
AVhilr working in the Navy Exchange, mv nersnnal bargain basement. I ran into PAT >>Tc-GAHAN who is stationed here at Olathc Air Sta­tion for a training course in the air end of tlic j business. Pat had undergone the rigors of Offi-1 cers Candidate Scliool and was sent to Olathe to B recuperate. I think the Kansas climate agrees I with him. He reports f-^r dutv In California snm--I time in the fall. Pat trils me that RON MAKOW-I SKI is studving in tlie Chr\-slcr craduate Institute I located In Dptroii. CHUCK LUCKETT was also | In Pat*s address book and it seems that Uncle Sam has finally located him. Chuck worked in | California before he took his basic at Fort Leon'%) 1 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1956 
RICHARD R. EVERROAD, HI 

Richard R. Everroad graduated from Notre Dame in 1941 with a magna cum laude. He is currently In­dustrial Relations Manager of the Elec­tronics Divisionj Curtiss-Wright Cor­poration, Carlstadt, New Jersey. He ^a s been active in the launching of the "Tuition Assistance Plan lor Employee Advanced Education" of the Gurtiss­\Vright Gorpoi-ation. The major por­tion of hi? working time is sp'.nt in the negotiation and administration of Union agreements; the planning and execution of pei'sonnel poHcies; and g:^the recruiting of electrical engineers. "T)ick is active in St. Catherine's Par­ish, Glen Rock, N. J., and was espe­cially instrumental in helping the church to raise money for new build­ings. He holds membership in the New Jersey Personnel Group and the In­dustrial Management Club. With his lY^ife Mar)' Kay (St. Mar>''s of the 
^Lake, 1940), he and their four chil­dren, Richard, Mary Katherine, Rob­ert and Craig, live at 60 Kent Road, Glen Rock, N. J. 
many tidbits of class news. DON FREUND and 
•^OILL RICHARDSON, arc spending some enjoyable 
.rraonths uitli tliclr wives at the Na\->- Supply Corps Scliool in Athens, Ga. TIM DEVEREUX plans to make Miss Ann Sullivan Ins wife on April 2nd in Oak Park, III. PHIL SHERID*\N is now Dis­bursing Officer on the U.S.S. Hancock and has seen much of the Far East. f\s far as Phil is con­cerned, anyihins is better than the Antarctic. JACK. MAHONEY has recently married a South Bend girl but none ol the details are known. DAVE METZ writes that he is just about to com­plete the course at Newport OCS and will be sent to various Na\->' schools throughout the country. 
His first job is recruiting duly in Chicago. Some deal! 
DICK BURKE writes that Ins law school activi­ties have kept him flying and that he hasn't had time for much else. From the news that Dick included I'd say that he hasn^t lost contact with many of the old crowd. All of the news to come is ^vhat Dick says is the scoop from his area. TOM C\REY was recently appointed to Terry Brennan's old post of head football coach at Mt. Camicl High ScIiool in Chicago. MIKE JACK­MAN, who will receive his Master's degree in Marketing from Michigan State this Augrist, plans to marr>" Miss Jean Kimmeet on the 23rd of June in Travcrs City, Michigan. FltVNK BURGE was recently married and was transferred to New York to work for I.B.M. RON TAGLER was in the wedding party and Is currentlv attending De Paul Law School with TOM DRISCOLL. Dick sends FRANK CLELANDS address as Lt. F. 
L. CIcland 0692W, 4-55 B.C. 4th PI. "M " Co., Quantico, Va. You can reach HARRY EDEL­STEIN by writing Lt. H. C. Edelstei'n, Box 584, Ellington AFB, Houston, Texas. FR^VNK M.VIER and his wife will soon be shipped to the coast where Frank will be stationed aboard a ship with home port San Diego. BURT METZGER is to walk up the aisle sometime this summer. JOHN 
V. RYAN is currently at Loyola Medical School along with DON S.VNTSCHI, AMEEL RASHID, and DON GALL.\GHER. IRV Ci\RRIG is still burning midnight oil in the graduate school of political science at the University of Chicago. Word has it that JIM GRIFFIN and Miss "Bunny" Hennessy of S.M.C. have set the date for a summer wedding. JIM BAKER will marry Miss Pat Hurley in Chicago on May 26th. J.ACK 
FLYNN left recently to sport the Marine green at Quantico, Va. JIM CURTIN will be with the Army for a period of Jix months after which hc*II probably return to the life of a civilian. 
RICHARD C. RUWE is now serving as acct. major with the U.S. Army, Co. M, 9lh Inf. Regt., Ft. Lewis, Wash. 
That just about does it in the news department this time but Dick Burke wanted me to pass on a little information to all of you before I put this column in the mall. Since !t is the respon­sibility of the class officers to plan class activities after graduation, we feel that something should be don= in the near future to insure class spirit and to promote the aims of every graduating group. One idea that has been offered is a class get-together at one of the games in the fall. Another is a monthly Mass at the University for the In­tentions of the members of the class. These are a few suggestions but we need many more. If any of you can offer anything that will help us along these lines It would be greatly appreciated If you could forward ihcm to eltlier Dick or me so wc can Implement them if practical. Just a postcard will do as loag as wc can hear from you. 
I want to pass along a word to those who have been good enough to send me the news that con­stitutes this columii. You've been a big help so far and I hope you keep up the good work. However, If I don't get around to answering your letters, please don't think that I don't consider It Important. I only wish that time allowed me to drop you all a note. I like to feel that this column, in some smalt way, serves as a sign of appreciation for your assistance. Until next time, good luck to you all. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Vincent Carney (left) presented the club's 1956 scholarship to Thomas J. Gugherty on Universal Notre Dame Night, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1936 
ST. LOUIS—L. to R.: Richard Muckcrman, 1956 Man of the Year; Paul M. Butler, guest speaker; and Donald A. Doheny, dub president. The group was photographed at the St. Louis Club's UNO Night dinner. 
DALLAS—Arthur T. Simpson, right, was chosen Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Dallas. James P. S%vift, left, last year's ^vinncr, made the presentation. In center is the Rev. Alfred F. Afendez, C.S.C., director of student aid at Notre Dame, ivho was one of the speakers at the dinner. 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-Julyj 1956 
has the long walk lo the dining hall as he is doing|^i graduate work among the iv^-covcrcd avails. RA KENNEDY' Is in grad school at the UnivcrsIlyW^j Cindnnati. JOHN SLAVICK is taking ad\-antagct»l of a fellowship and teaching school in Germany, r l "Top of the Week," JIM O'SHEA is teaching \ freshman English at the University of Toledo. "Bottom of the Week," he seems to be enjoying it. JIM IRWIN is at Ellington xMr Force Base in Texas. MAURY REIDY has imng up the tennis racquet in favor i>f the law books in Denver. FRANK LYNCH is in graduate scliool at Cornell where he won a scholarship. Bill ends his letter by reporting that low overhead TOM HAYES ] ^ an automobile dealership in LaGrangc, III. I hear that there are plain pipe racks and no fanc\­fixtures. 
JIM STEVENS gave up ths fight after being a civilian and enlisted in the Army after working in Detroit. He is now stationed at Fort Carson, Colo­rado, and is slated for a trip to Germany on the JOih of August. HAL U7LLENBORG writes again from the U.S.S. Alstedc (AF-48), and says that he met JIM HESBURGH while making the rounds in Norfolk. Hal also <pcnt an evening w" " GEORGE SHELTON who is getting his share the salty and deep. JACK SORANNO and JERR' ROE arc also in the Norfolk area and I'm sure arc not lacking for things to do> What's this about a trip la Atlanta, Chuck? Hal ends by saying that he's slated for a four to six month cruise to Valencia, Barcelona, Cannes, Naples, and Tangiers. I think that Pawnee, 111., will look mighty good to him when he returns. Got a card from JACK REED who is attending the Tuck B. School at Dartmouth. Jack is working for his MBA and is doing a good deal of work in the area of finance. He tells me that he heard fron^ JOE CONNOLLY who is doing newspaper woi ^ 
with the Army at a base in Asmorc, Ethiopia. By the way. Jack's address is 108 Chase House, Tuck B. School, Hanover. .N'. H. L.-\RRY HAR­RISON i: attending clicmical engineering graduate school at Purdue. Loyola Medical School in Chi­cago boasts the presence of DON GALLAGHER. Striving for those Nav>- wings we find GENE LUND who is training at Pcnsacola. My ovcr-scas reporter sends word that he might have seen JOHN SENNETT and GEORGE KLUEGEL roaming foreign lands at the expense of Uncle Sam. If my source is wrong I »>'ish that John and George would write and let me know what thcy'rAs doing to pass the tinit. JACK STEPHE.\S en " Joyed a ver\' successful year with the St. Louis Hawk's pro basketball team. Helping to put those Thundcrbirds into the hands of prosperous alumni seems to be the occupation of JAY L.-\UE who is working in the design department of the Ford ifotor Co. In Detroit. BILL YARIO is working for the Argonije National Laboratory- in Chicago. 

From the West coast conies a dispatch signed by PAT K£.-\RNS wh:i is working as a structures engineer for North American Aviation during the day and attending Long Beach State College at p night. Pat is trying for a master's degree but ih^. ^ social life seems to bo running a close second, Th * ' following news is from Pat's letter. DICK GRO­NER is now in the Army and is stationed at Fort Euilis, Virginia. DICK BLACK also fell victim of the draft but Pat wasn't sure where he is stationed. DICK DONAHUE is trying his hand in the Air Force and is stationed at Ellington .Air Force Base, Houston, Texas. JACK NE.METZ married the former Miss Ellrn McDonnell on the first of October and they are now living in St. Paul,* Minnesota. Jack is taped up with the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company. BERNIE TRACEY was aboard a destroyer witt^j home port at Newport, R. L. but will be trans^ ferrcd to Long Beach, California In July. ED PREIN is working for his ^^astcrs Degree In Civil Engineering at Michigan Stale and finds the co­education quite enjoyable. ED RHO.MBERG is 
taking a busmait's holiday as he teaches "Structures I" at the old alma mater. ED YOHOS keeps plugging in the field of Chemical Engineering as he works for Eastman-Kodak in Rochester, N. Y. JACK KENNEDY is attending California Tech­nical and is working towards a ifasters degree. Pal says that Jack U engaged ta a girl from his Iiome^ BILL HEINRICH is working as an engineer fo * Canadian Bechtcl Limited and is now In British Columbii assisting the company in the lavlnc of a pipe line. Pat finishes by saying that FRANK LYNCH is attending Columbia University for his masters in Aeronautical Engineering. 
From Key West, Florida comes a suntanned envelope bearing the seal of JOHN >VEITHERS and he has much to report from the tropics. John says the work is interesting and shottld become c\'en mere $o as he plans to attend the Easter festivities in Fort Lauderdale. His letter contained 

0^^ice ojf tltA P>i£AullzHt 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Midland, Texas 

May 30, 1956 Fellow Alumni: 
During the past month a great number of our one hundred and fifty-six alumni clubs scattered over the world celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night. The late John H. Neeson originated the idea in 1924 when he said in pan, "\Ve shall devote one evening to the 'Old Days' to reminisce, to play and to be serious, to discuss the problems that you know must be sorely troubling the successors to Serin, which are our problems, ... . And if we know, as we will, that Notre Dame men the countr\' over are, like us, meeting together in the spirit of the old days ... . that's a thrill worthwhile!" 
The general theme of this year's meetings was "Local Leadership." It was pointed out that a college education was once an unusual luxur)', primarily bettering the economic status of its beneficiaries. The alumnus now is no longer free to selfishly pursue only for his individual gain. He is a leader, owing society leadership derived from his advantage. AVith pride we of Notre Dame can point to numerous graduates in ever}' large city who have assumed their positions as leaders — whose actions plainly exhibit a thorough understanding and knowledge of the moral principles of our religious and political heritage. 
In my message printed in the March-April ALUMNUS, the work of the Placement Bui-eau, with particular reference to Alumni, was discussed. To report further, cards were mailed to 21,000 of you and inquiries have been received from 590. Of these, 234 have sent in their Alumni Placement Application registering for job opportunities. Father Mendez and Mr. Bott report tliat many favorable replies have already been received and that numerous alumni havs called and listed their job openings. You will be pleased to hear that the number of urgent cases was at a minimum. This is a large and important under­taking, and you may be sure that the Placement Bureau is doing eveiything possible to expedite iiandling of each individual application. 
The annual holiday for wives — Reunion \Veekend — approaches. This is another way of saying that while the girls stay home, the "old man" heads for his class get-togetlier, on campus, bringing some loud sport shirts, a wrinkled fielders glove and the trusty putter. He also unlimbei-s a gravel-toned but earnest basso profundo. Hope to see you all June 8-9-10. 
Sincerely, 
SJB^^. ^^L.JLC^ 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., President 
fRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 






